From 1835 onward they may easily be traced in the various Note-books, which have been edited
from his diary, and previous to that time we are indebted for them chiefly to the recollections
of his two faithful friends, Horatio Bridge and Elizabeth Peabody. These were first systematised
and published by George P. Lathrop in 1872, but a more complete and authoritative biography
was issued by Julian Hawthorne twelve years later, in which, however, the writer has modestly
refrained from expressing an opinion as to the quality of his father's genius, or from attempting
any critical examination of his father's literary work. It is in order to supply in some measure
this deficiency, that the present volume has been written. At the same time, I trust to have
given credit where it was due to my predecessors, in the good work of making known the true
character of so rare a genius and so exceptional a personality.

The publication of Horatio Bridge's memoirs and of Elizabeth Manning's account of the boyhood
of Hawthorne have placed before the world much that is new and valuable concerning the earlier
portion of Hawthorne's life, of which previous biographers could not very well reap the advantage.
I have made thorough researches in regard to Hawthorne's American ancestry, but have been able
to find no ground for the statements of Conway and Lathrop, that William Hathorne, their first
ancestor on this side of the ocean, was directly connected with the Quaker persecution. Some
other mistakes, like Hawthorne's supposed connection with the duel between Cilley and Graves,
have also been corrected.

                                                          F. P. S.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

    I. SALEM AND THE HATHORNES: 1630-1800
   II. BOYHOOD OF HAWTHORNE: 1804-1821
  III. BOWDOIN COLLEGE: 1821-1825
   IV. LITTLE MISERY: 1825-1835
    V. EOS AND EROS: 1835-1839
   VI. PEGASUS AT THE CART: 1839-1841
  VII. HAWTHORNE AS A SOCIALIST: 1841-1842
 VIII. CONCORD AND THE OLD MANSE: 1842-1845
   IX. "MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE": 1845
    X. FROM CONCORD TO LENOX: 1845-1849
   XI. PEGASUS IS FREE: 1850-1852
  XII. THE LIVERPOOL CONSULATE: 1852-1854
 XIII. HAWTHORNE IN ENGLAND: 1854-1858
  XIV. ITALY
   XV. HAWTHORNE AS ART CRITIC: 1858
  XVI. "THE MARBLE FAUN": 1859-1860
 XVII. HOMEWARD BOUND: 1860-1862
XVIII. IMMORTALITY

       PORTRAITS OF HAWTHORNE
       EDITIONS OF HAWTHORNE'S BOOKS PUBLISHED UNDER HIS OWN DIRECTION.
       MRS. EMERSON AND MRS. HAWTHORNE
       APPENDICES

List of Illustrations

PORTRAIT OF HAWTHORNE, BY FRANCES OSBORNE IN 1893 HAWTHORNE'S BIRTHPLACE HORATIO BRIDGE, FROM
THE PORTRAIT BY EASTMAN JOHNSON HAWTHORNE, FROM THE PORTRAIT BY CHARLES OSGOOD IN 1840 THE
OLD MANSE, RESIDENCE OF DR. RIPLEY THE CUSTOM HOUSE, SALEM, MASS THE WAYSIDE GUIDO RENI'S PORTRAIT
OF BEATRICE CENCI STATUE OF PRAXITELES' RESTING FAUN TORRE MEDIAVALLE DELLA SCIMMIA (HILDA'S
TOWER) IN ROME

THE LIFE AND GENIUS OF NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

CHAPTER I

SALEM AND THE HATHORNES: 1630-1800

The three earliest settlements on the New England coast were Plymouth, Boston, and Salem; but
Boston soon proved its superior advantages to the two others, not only from its more capacious
harbor, but also from the convenient waterway which the Charles River afforded to the interior
of the Colony. We find that a number of English families, and among them the ancestors of Gen.
Joseph Warren and Wendell Phillips, who crossed the ocean in 1640 in the "good ship Arbella,"
soon afterward migrated to Watertown on Charles River for the sake of the excellent farming
lands which they found there. Salem, however, maintained its ascendency over Plymouth and other
neighboring harbors on the coast, and soon grew to be the second city of importance in the
Colony during the eighteenth century, when the only sources of wealth were fishing, shipbuilding,
and commerce. Salem nourished remarkably. Its leading citizens became wealthy and developed
a social aristocracy as cultivated, as well educated, and, it may also be added, as fastidious
as that of Boston itself. In this respect it differed widely from the other small cities of
New England, and the exclusiveness of its first families was more strongly marked on account
of the limited size of the place. Thus it continued down to the middle of the last century,
when railroads and the tendency to centralization began to draw away its financial prosperity,
and left the city to small manufactures and its traditional respectability.

The finest examples of American eighteenth century architecture are supposed to exist in and
about the city of Salem, and they have the advantage, which American architecture lacks so
painfully at the present time, of possessing a definite style and character--edifices which
are not of a single type, like most of the houses in Fifth Avenue, but which, while differing
in many respects, have a certain general resemblance, that places them all in the same category.
The small old country churches of Essex County are not distinguished for fine carving or other
ornamentation, and still less by the costliness of their material, for they are mostly built
of white pine, but they have an indefinable air of pleasantness about them, as if they graced
the ground they stand on, and their steeples seem to float in the air above us. If we enter
them on a Sunday forenoon--for on week-days they are like a sheepfold without its occupants--we
meet with much the same kind of pleasantness in the assemblage there. We do not find the deep
religious twilight of past ages, or the noonday glare of a fashionable synagogue, but a neatly
attired congregation of weather-beaten farmers and mariners, and their sensible looking wives,
with something of the original Puritan hardness in their faces, much ameliorated by the liberalism
and free thinking of the past fifty years. Among them too you will see some remarkably pretty
young women; and young men like those who dug the trenches on Breed's Hill in the afternoon
of June 16, 1775. There may be veterans in the audience who helped Grant to go to Richmond.
Withal there is much of the spirit of the early Christians among them, and virtue enough to
save their country in any emergency.

These old churches have mostly disappeared from Salem city and have been replaced by more aristocratic
edifices, whose square or octagonal towers are typical of their leading parishioners,--a dignified
class, if somewhat haughty and reserved; but they too will soon belong to the past, drawn off
to the great social centres in and about Boston. In the midst of Salem there is a triangular
common, "with its never-failing elms," where the boys large and small formerly played cricket--married
men too--as they do still on the village greens of good old England, and around this enclosure
the successful merchants and navigators of the city built their mansion houses; not half houses
like those in the larger cities, but with spacious halls and rooms on either side going up
three stories. It is in the gracefully ornamented doorways and the delicate interior wood-work,
the carving of wainscots, mantels and cornices, the skilful adaptations of classic forms to
a soft and delicate material that the charm of this architecture chiefly consists,--especially
in the staircases, with their carved spiral posts and slender railings, rising upward in the
centre of the front hall, and turning right and left on the story above. It is said that after
the year eighteen hundred the quality of this decoration sensibly declined; it was soon replaced
by more prosaic forms, and now the tools no longer exist that can make it. Sir Christopher
Wren and Inigo Jones would have admired it. America, excepting in New York City, escaped the
false rococo taste of the eighteenth century.

The Salem sea-captains of old times were among the boldest of our early navigators; sailing
among the pirates of the Persian Gulf and trading with the cannibals of Polynesia, and the
trophies which they brought home from those strange regions, savage implements of war and domestic
use, clubs, spears, boomerangs, various cooking utensils, all carved with infinite pains from
stone, ebony and iron-wood, cloth from the bark of the tapa tree, are now deposited in the
Peabody Academy, where they form one of the largest collections of the kind extant. Even more
interesting is the sword of a sword-fish, pierced through the oak planking of a Salem vessel
for six inches or more. No human force could do that even with a spear of the sharpest steel.
Was the sword-fish roused to anger when the ship came upon him sleeping in the water; or did
he mistake it for a strange species of whale?

There is a court-house on Federal Street, built in Webster's time, of hard cold granite in
the Grecian fashion of the day, not of the white translucent marble with which the Greeks would
have built it. Is it the court-house where Webster made his celebrated argument in the White
murder case, or was that court-house torn down and a plough run through the ground where it
stood, as Webster affirmed that it ought to be? Salem people were curiously reticent in regard
to that trial, and fashionable society there did not like Webster the better for having the
two Knapps convicted.

Much more valuable than such associations is William Hunt's full-length portrait of Chief Justice
Shaw, which hangs over the judge's bench in the front court-room. "When I look at your honor
I see that you are homely, but when I think of you I know that you are great." it is this combination
of an unprepossessing physique with rare dignity of character which Hunt has represented in
what many consider the best of American portraits. It is perhaps too much in the sketchy style
of Velasquez, but admirable for all that.

Time has dealt kindly with Salem, in effacing all memorials of the witchcraft persecution,
except a picturesque old house at the corner of North and Essex Streets, where there are said
to have been preliminary examinations for witchcraft,--a matter which concerns us now but slightly.
The youthful associations of a genius are valuable to us on account of the influence which
they may be supposed to have had on his early life, but associations which have no determining
consequences may as well be neglected. The hill where those poor martyrs to superstition were
executed may be easily seen on the left of the city, as you roll in on the train from Boston.
It is part of a ridge which rises between the Concord and Charles Rivers and extends to Cape
Ann, where it dives into the ocean, to reappear again like a school of krakens, or other marine
monsters, in the Isles of Shoals.

New England has not the fertile soil of many sections of the United States, and its racking
climate is proverbial, but it is blessed with the two decided advantages of pure water and
fine scenery. There is no more beautiful section of its coast than that between Salem Harbor
and Salisbury Beach, long stretches of smooth sand alternating with bold rocky promontories.
A summer drive from Swampscott to Marblehead reminds one even of the Bay of Naples (without
Vesuvius), and the wilder coast of Cape Ann, with its dark pines, red-roofed cottages, and
sparkling surf, is quite as delightful. William Hunt went there in the last sad years of his
life to paint "sunshine," as he said; and Whittier has given us poetic touches of the inland
scenery in elevated verse:

                "Fleecy clouds casting their shadows
                 Over uplands and meadows;
                 And country roads winding as roads will,
                 Here to a ferry, there to a mill."

Poets arise where there is poetic nourishment, internal and external, for them to feed on;
and it is not surprising that a Whittier and a Hawthorne should have been evolved from the
environment in which they grew to manhood.

It is a common saying with old Boston families that their ancestors came to America in the
"Arbella" with Governor Winthrop, but as a matter of fact there were at least fifteen vessels
that brought colonists to Massachusetts in 1630, and I cannot discover that any lists of their
passengers have been preserved. The statement that certain persons came over at the same time
with Governor Winthrop might soon become a tradition that they came in the same ship with him;
but all that we know certainly is that Governor Winthrop landed about the middle of June, 1630,
and that his son arrived two weeks later in the "Talbot," and was drowned July 2, while attempting
to cross one of the tide rivers at Salem. Who arrived in the thirteen other vessels that year
we know not. Ten years later Sir Richard Saltonstall emigrated to Boston with the Phillips
and Warren families in the "Arbella" (or "Arabella"), and there is no telling how much longer
she sailed the ocean.

Hawthorne himself states that his ancestors came from Wig Castle in Wigton in Warwickshire,
[Footnote: Diary, August 22, 1837.] but no such castle has been discovered, and the only Wigton
in England appears to be located in Cumberland. [Footnote: Lathrop's "Study of Hawthorne,"
46.] He does not tell us where he obtained this information, and it certainly could not have
been from authentic documents,--more likely from conversation with an English traveller. Hawthorne
never troubled himself much concerning his ancestry, English or American; while he was consul
at Liverpool, he had exceptional advantages for investigating the subject, but whatever attempt
he made there resulted in nothing. It is only recently that Mr. Henry F. Waters, who spent
fifteen years in England searching out the records of old New England families, succeeded in
discovering the connecting link between the first American Hawthornes and their relatives in
the old country. It was a bill of exchange for one hundred pounds drawn by William Hathorne,
of Salem, payable to Robert Hathorne in London, and dated October 19, 1651, which first gave
Mr. Waters the clue to his discovery. Robert not only accepted his brother's draft, but wrote
him this simple and business- like but truly affectionate epistle in return:

"GOOD BROTHER: Remember my love to my sister, my brother John and sister, my brother Davenport
and sister and the rest of our friends.

                  "In haste I rest
                       "Your loving brother,

"From Bray this 1 April, 1653.     ROBERT HATHORNE."

From this it appears that Major William Hathorne not only had a brother John, who established
himself in Lynn, but a sister Elizabeth, who married Richard Davenport, of Salem. Concerning
Robert Hathorne we only know further that he died in 1689; but in the probate records of Berkshire,
England, there is a will proved May 2, 1651, of William Hathorne, of Binfield, who left all
his lands, buildings and tenements in that county to his son Robert, on condition that Robert
should pay to his father's eldest son, William, one hundred pounds, and to his son John twenty
pounds sterling. He also left to another son, Edmund, thirty acres of land in Bray, and there
are other legacies; but it cannot be doubted that the hundred pounds mentioned in this will
is the same that Major William Hathorne drew for five months later, and that we have identified
here the last English ancestor of Nathaniel Hawthorne. His wife's given name was Sarah, but
her maiden name still remains unknown. The family resided chiefly at Binfield, on the borders
of Windsor Park, and evidently were in comfortable circumstances at that time. From William
Hathorne, senior, their genealogy has been traced back to John Hathorne (spelled at that time
Hothorne), who died in 1520, but little is known of their affairs, or how they sustained themselves
during the strenuous vicissitudes of the Reformation. [Footnote: "Hawthorne Centenary at Salem,"
81.]

Emmerton and Waters [Footnote: "English Records about New England Families."] state that William
Hathorne came to Massachusetts Bay in 1630, and this is probable enough, though by no means
certain, for they give no authority for it. We first hear of him definitely as a freeholder
in the settlement of Dorchester in 1634, but his name is not on the list of the first twenty-four
Dorchester citizens, dated October 19, 1630. All accounts agree that he moved to Salem in 1636,
or the year following, and Nathaniel Hawthorne believed that he came to America at that time.
[Footnote: "Salem Witchcraft," i. 99.]

Evidently he was the most important person in the colony, next to Governor Winthrop, and unequalled
by any of his descendants, except Nathaniel Hawthorne, and by him in a wholly different manner;
for it is in vain that we seek for traits similar to those of the great romance writer among
his ancestors. We can only say that they both possessed exceptional mental ability, and there
the comparison ends.

The attempt has been made to connect William Hathorne with the persecution of the Quakers,
[Footnote: Conway's "Life of Hawthorne," 15.] and it is true that he was a member of the Colonial
Assembly during the period of the persecution; it is likely that his vote supported the measures
in favor of it, but this is not absolutely certain. We do not learn that he acted at any time
in the capacity of sheriff; the most diligent researches in the archives of the State House
at Boston have failed to discover any direct connection on the part of William Hathorne with
that movement; and the best authorities in regard to the events of that time make no mention
of him. [Footnote: Sewel, Hallowell, Ellis.] It was the clergy who aroused public opinion and
instigated the prosecutions against both the Quakers and the supposed witches of Salem, and
the civil authorities were little more than passive instruments in their hands. Hathorne's
work was essentially a legislative one,--a highly important work in that wild, unsettled country,--to
adapt English statutes and legal procedures to new and strange conditions. He was twice Speaker
of the House between 1660 and 1671, and as presiding officer he could exert less influence
on measures of expediency than any other person present, as he could not argue either for or
against them. And yet, after Charles II. had interfered in behalf of the Quakers, William Hathorne
wrote an elaborate and rather circuitous letter to the British Ministry, arguing for non-intervention
in the affairs of the colony, which might have possessed greater efficacy if he had not signed
it with an assumed name. [Footnote: J. Hawthorne's "Nathaniel Hawthorne," i. 24.] However strong
a Puritan he may have been, William Hathorne evidently had no intention of becoming a martyr
to the cause of colonial independence. Yet it may be stated in his favor, and in that of the
colonists generally, that the fault was not wholly on one side, for the Quakers evidently sought
persecution, and would have it, cost what it might. [Footnote: Hallowell's "Quaker Invasion
of New England."] Much the same may be affirmed of his son John, who had the singular misfortune
to be judge in Salem at the time of the witchcraft epidemic. The belief in witchcraft has always
had its stronghold among the fogs and gloomy fiords of the North. James I. brought it with
him from Scotland to England, and in due course it was transplanted to America. Judge Hathorne
appears to have been at the top of affairs at Salem in his time, and it is more than probable
that another in his place would have found himself obliged to act as he did. Law is, after
all, in exceptional cases little more than a reflex of public opinion. "The common law," said
Webster, "is common-sense," which simply means the common opinion of the most influential people.
Much more to blame than John Hathorne were those infatuated persons who deceived themselves
into thinking that the pains of rheumatism, neuralgia, or some similar malady were caused by
the malevolent influence of a neighbor against whom they had perhaps long harbored a grudge.
They were the true witches and goblins of that epoch, and the only ones, if any, who ought
to have been hanged for it.

What never has been reasoned up cannot be reasoned down. It seems incredible in this enlightened
era, as the newspapers call it, that any woman should be at once so inhuman and so frivolous
as to swear away the life of a fellow-creature upon an idle fancy; and yet, even in regard
to this, there were slightly mitigating conditions. Consider only the position of that handful
of Europeans in this vast wilderness, as it then was. The forests came down to the sea-shore,
and brought with them all the weird fancies, terrors and awful forebodings which the human
mind could conjure up. They feared the Indians, the wild beasts, and most of all one another,
for society was not yet sufficiently organized to afford that repose and contentment of spirit
which they had left behind in the Old World. They had come to America to escape despotism,
but they had brought despotism in their own hearts. They could escape from the Stuarts, but
there was no escape from human nature.

It is likely that their immediate progenitors would not have carried the witchcraft craze to
such an extreme. The emigrating Puritans were a fairly well-educated class of men and women,
but their children did not enjoy equal opportunities. The new continent had to be subdued physically
and reorganized before any mental growth could be raised there. Levelling the forest was a
small matter beside clearing the land of stumps and stones. All hands were obliged to work
hard, and there was little opportunity for intellectual development or social culture. As a
logical consequence, an era ensued not unlike the dark ages of Europe. But this was essential
to the evolution of a new type of man, and for the foundation of American nationality; and
it was thus that the various nationalities of Europe arose out of the ruins of the Roman Empire.

The scenes that took place in Judge Hathorne's court-room have never been equalled since in
American jurisprudence. Powerful forces came into play there, and the reports that have been
preserved read like scenes from Shakespeare.

To which she replied:

"'It is all false. I am clear.' Whereupon Mrs. Pope, one of the witnesses, fell into a grievous
fit." [Footnote: Upham's "Salem Witchcraft," ii. 64.]

Alas, poor beleaguered soul! And one may well say, "What imaginations those women had!"

This might serve as an epilogue to "Macbeth," and the wonder is that an unlettered Indian should
have had the wit to make such apt and subtle replies. It is also noteworthy that these strange
proceedings took place after the expulsion of the royal governor, and previous to the provincial
government of William III. If Sir Edmund Andros had remained, the tragedy might have been changed
into a farce.

After all, it appears that John Hathorne was not a lawyer, for he describes himself in his
last will, dated June 27, 1717, as a merchant, and it is quite possible that his legal education
was no better than that of the average English squire in Fielding's time. It is evident, however,
from the testimony given above, that he was a strong believer in the supernatural, and here
if anywhere we find a relationship between him and his more celebrated descendant. Nathaniel
Hawthorne was too clear-sighted to place confidence in the pretended revelations of trance
mediums, and he was not in the least superstitious; but he was remarkably fond of reading ghost
stories, and would have liked to believe them, if he could have done so in all sincerity. He
sometimes felt as if he were a ghost himself, gliding noiselessly in the walks of men, and
wondered that the sun should cast a shadow from him. However, we cannot imagine him as seated
in jurisdiction at a criminal tribunal. His gentle nature would have recoiled from that, as
it might from a serpent.

In the Charter Street burial-ground there is a slate gravestone, artistically carved about
its edges, with the name, "Col. John Hathorne Esq.," upon it. It is somewhat sunken into the
earth, and leans forward as if wishing to hide the inscription upon it from the gaze of mankind.
The grass about it and the moss upon the stone assist in doing this, although repeatedly cut
and cleaned away. It seems as if Nature wished to draw a kind of veil over the memory of the
witch's judge, himself the sorrowful victim of a theocratic oligarchy. The lesson we learn
from his errors is, to trust our own hearts and not to believe too fixedly in the doctrines
of Church and State. It must be a dull sensibility that can look on this old slate-stone without
a feeling of pathos and a larger charity for the errors of human nature.

It is said that one of the convicted witches cursed Judge Hathorne,-- himself and his descendants
forever; but it is more than likely that they all cursed him bitterly enough, and this curse
took effect in a very natural and direct manner. Every extravagant political or social movement
is followed by a corresponding reaction, even if the movement be on the whole a salutary one,
and retribution is sure to fall in one shape or another on the leaders of it. After this time
the Hathornes ceased to be conspicuous in Salem affairs. The family was not in favor, and the
avenues of prosperity were closed to them, as commonly happens in such cases. Neither does
the family appear to have multiplied and extended itself like most of the old New England families,
who can now count from a dozen to twenty branches in various places. Of John Hathorne's three
sons only one appears to have left children. The name has wholly disappeared from among Salem
families, and thus in a manner has the witch's curse been fulfilled.

Joseph Hathorne, the son of the Judge, was mostly a farmer, and that is all that we now know
of him. His son Daniel, however, showed a more adventurous spirit, becoming a shipmaster quite
early in life. It has also been intimated that he was something of a smuggler, which was no
great discredit to him in a time when the unfair and even prohibitory measures of the British
Parliament in regard to American commerce made smuggling a practical necessity. Even as the
captain of a trading vessel, however, Daniel Hathorne was not likely to advance the social
interests of his family. It is significant that he should have left the central portion of
Salem, where his ancestors had lived, and have built a house for himself close to the city
wharves,--a house well built and commodious enough, but not in a fashionable location.

