The German poet, Schiller, who was a worshipper of Art and sensualistic beauty, and who regarded
the sciences as the mere handmaids of Art, exalting the aesthetic above the moral nature in
man, quite naturally regretted that he had not lived in the palmy days of the anthropomorphic
creed of Hellas, before the dirge of Pan was chanted in the Isle of Naxos. His "Gods of Greek
Land" is as fine a piece of heathenish longing as could well be written at so late a day. His
heart was evidently far away from the century in which he lived, and pulsated under that distant
Grecian sky of which he somewhere speaks. For artistic purposes the myths of Greece formed
a glorious faith. Grace and symmetry of form were theirs, and they satiated the eye with outward
loveliness; but to the deep fountains of feeling and sentiment, such as a higher faith has
unsealed in the heart, they never penetrated. What a poor, narrow little world was that myth-haunted
one of the Grecian poet and sculptor, and even philosopher, compared with the actual world
which modern science is revealing from year to year! What a puny affair was that Grecian sun,
with its coachman's apparatus of reins, fire-breathing nags, and golden car, which Schiller
looks back to, in the spirit of Mr. Weller, Senior, when compared with the vast empyreal sphere
and light-fountain of modern science, with its retinue of planets, ships of space, freighted
with souls! Science the handmaid of Art! Well might the mere artist and worshipper of anthropomorphic
beauty shrink appalled, and sigh for a lodge under some low Grecian heaven and in the bosom
of some old myth-peopled Nature, as he trembled before the apocalypses of modern sidereal science,
which has dropped its plummet to unimaginable depths through the nebulous abysses of space,
shoaled with systems of worlds as the sea is with its finny droves. The Nature and the Physical
Universe of the old ethnic Greek formed only a little niche and recess, on the walls of which
the puny human image was easily reflected in beautiful and picturesque and grotesque shadows,
which were mistaken for gods. But the Nature and Universe revealed by modern Christian science
are too vast and profound to mirror anything short of the image of the Omnipotent himself.

Still there is a period in the life of every imaginative youth, when he is a pagan and worships
in the old Homeric pantheon,--where self-denial and penance were unknown, and where in grove
and glen favored mortal lover might hear the tread of "Aphrodite's glowing sandal." The youthful
poet may exclaim with Schiller,--

  "Art thou, fair world, no more?
  Return, thou virgin-bloom on Nature's face!
  Ah, only on the minstrel's magic shore
  Can we the footstep of sweet Fable trace!
  The meadows mourn for the old hallowing life;
  Vainly we search the earth of gods bereft;
  Where once the warm and living shapes were rife,
  Shadows alone are left!
  Cold, from the North, has gone
  Over the flowers the blast that chilled their May;
  And, to enrich the worship of the One,
  A universe of gods must pass away!
  Mourning, I search on yonder starry steeps,
  But thee, no more, Selene, there I see!
  And through the woods I call, and o'er the deeps,
  And--Echo answers me." [Bulwer's Translation.]

The Elysian beauty and melancholy grace which Wordsworth throws over the shade of Alcestis
were gleams borrowed from a better world than the mythic Elysium. Neither Olympus nor Erebus
disdained the pleasures of sense.

Shakspeare, in his "Midsummer-Night's Dream," has mingled the mythologies of Hellas and Scandinavia,
of the North and the South, making of them a sort of mythic olla podrida. He represents the
tiny elves and fays of the Gothic fairyland, span-long creatures of dew and moonshine, the
lieges of King Oberon, and of Titania, his queen, as making an irruption from their haunted
hillocks, woods, meres, meadows, and fountains, in the North, into the olive-groves of Ilissus,
and dancing their ringlets in the ray of the Grecian Selene, the chaste, cold huntress, and
running by the triple Hecate's team, following the shadow of Night round the earth. Strangely
must have sounded the horns of the Northern Elfland, "faintly blowing" in the woods of Hellas,
as Oberon and his grotesque court glanced along, "with bit and bridle ringing," to bless the
nuptials of Theseus with the bouncing Amazon. Strangely must have looked the elfin footprints
in the Attic green. Across this Shakspearean plank, laid between Olympus and Asgard, or more
strictly Alfheim, we gladly pass from the sunny realm of Zeus into that of his Northern counterpart,
Odin, who ought to be dearer and more familiar to his descendants than the Grecian Jove, though
he is not. The forms which throng Asgard may not be so sculpturesquely beautiful, so definite,
and fit to be copied in marble and bronze as those of Olympus. There may be more vagueness
of outline in the Scandinavian abode of the gods, as of far-off blue skyey shapes, but it is
more cheerful and homelike. Pleasantly wave the evergreen boughs of the Life-Tree, Yggdrasil,
the mythic ash-tree of the old North, whose leaves are green with an unwithering bloom that
shall defy even the fires of the final conflagration. Iduna, or Spring, sits in those boughs
with her apples of rejuvenescence, restoring the wasted strength of the gods. In the shade
of its topmost branches stands Asgard, the abode of the Asen, who are called the Rafters of
the World,--to wit, Odin, Thor, Freir, and the other higher powers, male and female, of the
old Teutonic religion. In Asgard is Valhalla, the hall of elect heroes. The roots of this mundane
ash reach as far downwards as its branches do upwards. Its roots, trunk, and branches together
thrid the universe, shooting Hela, the kingdom of death, Midgard, the abode of men, and Asgard,
the dwelling of the gods, like so many concentric rings.

This ash was a psychological and ontological plant. All the lore of Plato and Kant and Fichte
and Cousin was audible in the sigh of its branches. Three Norns, Urt, Urgand, and Skuld, dwelt
beneath it, so that it comprehended time past, present, and future. The gods held their councils
beneath it. By one of its stems murmured the Fountain of Mimir, in Niflheim or Mistland, from
whose urn welled up the ocean and the rivers of the earth. Odin had his outlook in its top,
where kept watch and ward the All-seeing Eye. In its boughs frisked and gambolled a squirrel
called Busybody, which carried gossip from bough to root and back. The warm Urdar Fountain
of the South, in which swam the sun and moon in the shape of two swans, flowed by its celestial
stem in Asgard. A tree so much extended as this ash of course had its parasites and rodentia
clinging to it and gnawing it; but the brave old ash defied them all, and is to wave its skywide
umbrage even over the ruins of the universe, after the dies irae shall have passed. So sings
the Voluspa. This tree is a worthy type of the Teutonic race, so green, so vigorous, so all-embracing.
We should expect to find the chief object in the Northern myth-world a tree. The forest was
ever dear to the sons of the North, and many ancient Northern tribes used to hold their councils
and parliaments under the branches of some wide-spreading oak or ash. Like its type, Yggdrasil,
the Teutonic race seems to be threading the earth with the roots of universal dominion, and,
true to hereditary instincts, it is belting the globe with its colonies, planting it, as it
were, with slips from the great Mundane Ash, and throwing Bifröst bridges across oceans, in
the shape of telegraph-cables and steamships.

Asgard is a more homelike place than Olympus. Home and fireside, in their true sense, are Teutonic
institutions. Valhalla, the hall of elect heroes, was appropriately shingled with golden shields.
Guzzlers of ale and drinkers of lagerbier will be pleased to learn that this Northern Valhalla
was a sort of celestial beer-saloon, thus showing that it was a genuine Teutonic paradise;
for ale would surely be found in such a region. In the "Prose Edda," Hor replies to Gangler--who
is asking him about the board and lodgings of the heroes who had gone to Odin in Valhalla,
and whether they had anything but water to drink--in huge disdain, inquiring of Gangler whether
he supposed that the Allfather would invite kings and jarls and other great men, and give them
nothing to drink but water. How do things divine and supernatural, when conceived of by man
and cast in an earthly, finite mould, necessarily assume human attributes and characteristics!
Strong drinks, the passion of the Northern races in all ages, are of course found in their
old mythic heaven, in their fabled Hereafter,--and even boar's flesh also. The ancient Teuton
could not have endured a heaven with mere airy, unsubstantial joys. There must be celestial
roasts of strong meat for him, and flagons of his ancestral ale. His descendants to this day
never celebrate a great occasion without a huge feed and corporation dinners, thus establishing
their legitimate descent from Teutonic stock. The Teutonic man ever led a life of vigorous
action; hence his keen appetite, whetted by the cold blasts of his native North. What wonder,
then, at the presence of sodden boar's flesh in his ancient Elysium, and of a celestial goat
whose teats yielded a strong beverage? The Teuton liked not fasting and humiliation either
in Midgard or Asgard. He was ever carnivorous and eupeptic. We New Englanders are perhaps the
leanest of his descendants, because we have forsaken too much the old ways and habits of the
race, and given ourselves too much to abstractions and transcendentalism. The old Teuton abhorred
the abstract. He loved the concrete, the substantial. The races of Southern Europe, what are
now called the Latin races, were more temperate than the Teutonic, but they were far less brave,
honest, and manly. Their sensuality might not be so boisterous, but it was more bestial and
foul. Strength and manliness, and a blithe, cheery spirit, were ever the badges of the Teuton.
But though originally gross and rough, he was capable of a smoother polish, of a glossier enamel,
than a more superficial, trivial nature. He was ever deeply thoughtful, and capable of profounder
moods of meditation than the lightly-moved children of the South. Sighs, as from the boughs
of Yggdrasil, ever breathed through his poetry from of old. He was a smith, an artificer, and
a delver in mines from the beginning. The old Teutonic Pan was far more musical and awe-inspiring
than his Grecian counterpart The Noon-spirit of the North was more wild than that of the South.
How all the ancient North was alive in its Troll-haunted hillocks, where clanged the anvil
of the faery hill-smith, and danced and banqueted the Gnome and Troll,--and in its streams
and springs, musical with the harps of moist-haired Elle-women and mermaids, who, ethnic daemons
though they were, yet cherished a hope of salvation! The myth-spirits of the North were more
homely and domestic than those of the South, and had a broader humor and livelier fancies.
The Northern Elf-folk were true natives of the soil, grotesque in costume and shape.

The Teuton of to-day is the lineal descendant of the old worshipper of Thor. Miöllnir, the
hammer of Thor, still survives in the gigantic mechanisms of Watt, Fulton, and Stephenson.
Thor embodied more Teutonic attributes than Odin. The feats which Thor performed in that strange
city of Utgard, as they are related in the old "Prose Edda," were prophetic of the future achievements
of the race, of which he was a chief god. Thor once went on a journey to Jötunheim, or Giant-land,--a
primitive outlying country, full of the enemies of the Asgard dynasty, or cosmical deities.
In the course of the journey, he lodged one night with his two companions in what he supposed
to be a huge hall, but which turned out to be the glove of a giant named Skrymir, who was asleep
and snoring as loud as an earthquake, near by. When the giant awoke, he said to Thor, who stood
near,--"My name is Skrymir, but I need not ask thy name, for I know that thou art the god Thor.
But what hast thou done with my glove?" Sure enough, on looking, Thor found that he had put
up that night in Skrymir's handshoe, or glove. The giant and Thor breakfasted amicably together
and went on their way till night, when Skrymir gave up his wallet of provisions to Thor and
his two companions, and bade them supply themselves,--he meanwhile composing himself to sleep,
snoring so loudly that the forest trembled. Thor could not undo the giant's wallet, and in
his wrath he smote the somnolent lubber with his mallet, a crushing blow. Skrymir simply awoke,
and inquired whether a leaf had not fallen upon his head from the oak-tree under which he was
lying. Conceive the chagrin and shame of Thor at this question! A second time Thor let fly
at the giant with his mallet. This time it sank into his skull up to the handle, but with no
more satisfactory result. The giant merely inquired whether an acorn had not dropped on his
head, and wanted to know how Thor found himself, whether he slept well or not; to which queries
Thor muttered an answer, and went away, determined to make a third and final effort with his
mallet, which had never failed him until then. About daybreak, as Skrymir was taking his last
snooze, Thor uplifted his hammer, clutching it so fiercely that his knuckles became white.
Down it came, with terrific emphasis, crushing through Skrymir's cheek, up to the handle. Skrymir
sat up and inquired if there were not birds perched on the tree under which he had been lodging;
he thought he felt something dropping on his head,--some moss belike. Alas for Thor and his
weapon! For once he found himself worsted, and his mightiest efforts regarded as mere flea-bites;
for Skrymir's talk about leaves and acorns and moss was merely a sly piece of humor, levelled
at poor crestfallen Thor, as he afterwards acknowledged. After this incident, Thor and his
two companions, the peasant's children, Thjalfi and Röska, and Skrymir went their ways, and
came to the high-gated city of Utgard, which stood in the middle of a plain, and was so lofty
that Thor had to throw back his head to see its pinnacles and domes. Now Thor was by no means
small; indeed, in Asgard, the city of the AEsir, he was regarded as a giant; but here in Utgard
Skrymir told him he had better not give himself any airs, for the people of that city would
not tolerate any assumption on the part of such a mannikin!

Utgard-Loki, the king of the city, received Thor with the utmost disdain, calling him a stripling,
and asked him contemptuously what he could do. Thor was thirsty, and thought he could manage
the horn without difficulty, although it was somewhat of the largest. After a long, deep, and
breathless pull which he designed as a finisher, he set the horn down and found that the liquor
was not perceptibly lowered. Again he tried, with no better result; and a third time, full
of wrath and chagrin, he guzzled at its contents, but found that the liquor still foamed near
to the brim. He gave back the horn in disgust. Then Utgard-Loki proposed to him the childish
exercise of lifting his cat. Thor put his hands under Tabby's belly, and, lifting with all
his might, could only raise one foot from the floor. He was a very Gulliver in Brobdignag.
As a last resort, he proposed to retrieve his tarnished reputation by wrestling with some Utgardian;
whereupon the king turned into the ring his old nurse, Elli, a poor toothless crone, who brought
Thor to his knees, and would have thrown him, had not the king interfered. Poor Thor! The next
morning he took breakfast in a sad state of mind, and owned himself a shamefully used-up individual.
The fact was, he had strayed unconsciously amongst the old brute powers of primitive Nature,
as he ought to have perceived by the size of the kids they wore. He had done better than he
was aware of, however. The three blows of his hammer had fallen on nothing less than a huge
mountain, instead of a giant, and left three deep glens dinted into its surface; the drinking-horn,
which he had undertaken to empty, was the sea itself, or an outlet of the sea, which he had
perceptibly lowered; while the cat was in reality the Midgard Serpent, which enringed the world
in its coils, and the toothless she-wrestler was Old Age! What wonder that Thor was brought
to his knees? On finding himself thus made game of, Thor grew wroth, but had to go his ways,
as the city of Utgard had vanished into thin air, with its cloud-capped towers and enormous
citizens. Thor afterwards undertook to catch the Midgard Serpent, using a bull's head for bait.
The World-Snake took the delicious morsel greedily, and, finding itself hooked, writhed and
struggled so that Thor thrust his feet through the bottom of his boat, in his endeavors to
land his prey.

There is a certain grotesque humor in Thor's adventures, which is missed in his mythologic
counterpart of the South, Hercules. It is the old rich "world-humor" of the North, genial and
broad, which still lives in the creations of the later Teutonic Muse. The dints which Thor
made on the mountain-skull of Skrymir were types and forerunners of the later feats of the
Teutonic race, performed on the rough, shaggy, wilderness face of this Western hemisphere,
channelling it with watery highways, tunnelling and levelling its mountains, and strewing its
surface with cities. The old Eddas and Voluspas of the North are full of significant lore for
the sons of the Northmen, wherever their lot is cast. There they will find, that, in colonizing
and humanizing the face of the world, in zoning it with railroads and telegraph-wires, in bridging
its oceans with clipper-ships, and steamboats, and in weaving, forging, and fabricating for
it amid the clang of iron mechanisms, they are only following out the original bent of the
race, and travelling in the wake of Thor the Hammerer.

While the Grecian and Roman myths are made familiar by our school-books, it is to be regretted
that the wild and glorious mythic lore of our ancient kindred is neglected. To that you must
go, if you would learn whence came

      "the German's inward sight,
  And slow-sure Britain's secular might,"

and it may be added, the Anglo-American's unsurpassed practical energy, skill, and invincible
love of freedom. From the fountains of the ash-tree Yggdrasil flowed these things. Some of
the greatest of modern Teutonic writers have gone back to these fountains, flowing in these
wild mythic wastes of the Past, and have drunk inspiration thence. Percy, Scott, and Carlyle,
by so doing, have infused new sap from the old life-tree of their race into our modern English
literature, which had grown effete and stale from having had its veins injected with too much
cold, thin, watery Gallic fluid. Yes, Walter Scott heard the innumerous leafy sigh of Yggdrasil's
branches, and modulated his harp thereby. Carlyle, too, has bathed in the three mystic fountains
which flow fast by its roots. In an especial manner has the German branch of the Teuton kindred
turned back to those old musical well-springs bubbling up in the dim North, and they have been
strengthened and inspired by the pilgrimage. "Under the root, which stretches out towards the
Jötuns, there is Mimir's Well, in which Wisdom and Wit lie hidden." Longfellow, too, has drunk
of Mimir's Well, and hence the rare charm and witchery of his "Evangeline," "Hiawatha," and
"Golden Legend." This well in the North is better than Castalian fount for the children of
the North.

How much more genial and lovable is Balder, the Northern Sun-god, than his Grecian counterpart,
the lord of the unerring bow, the Southern genius of light, and poesy, and music! Balder dwelt
in his palace of Breidablick, or Broadview; and in the magical spring-time of the North, when
the fair maiden Iduna breathed into the blue air her genial breath, he set imprisoned Nature
free, and filled the sky with silvery haze, and called home the stork and crane, summoning
forth the tender buds, and clothing the bare branches with delicate green. "Balder is the mildest,
the wisest, and the most eloquent of all the AEsir," says the "Edda." A voice of wail went
through the palaces of Asgard when Balder was slain by the mistletoe dart. Hermod rode down
to the kingdom of Hela, or Death, to ransom the lost one. Meantime his body was set adrift
on a floating funeral pyre. Hermod would have succeeded in his mission, had not Lok, the Spirit
of Evil, interposed to thwart him. For this, Lok was bound in prison, with cords made of the
twisted intestines of one of his own sons; and he will remain imprisoned until the Twilight
of the Gods, the consummation of all things.

On the shoulders of Odin, the supreme Scandinavian deity, sat two ravens, whispering in his
ears. These two ravens are called Hugin and Munin, or Thought and Memory. These "stately ravens
of the saintly days of yore" flew, each day, all over the world, gathering "facts and figures,"
doubtless for their August master. It is a beautiful fable, and reminds one of Milton's "thoughts
which wander through eternity." The dove of the Ark, and the bird which perched on the shoulder
of the old Plutarchan hero Sertorius, are recalled by this Scandinavian legend:--

  "Hugin and Munin
  Each down take their flight
  Earth's fields over."

Nobler birds, these dark ravens of the Northern Jove, than the bolt-bearing eagle of his Grecian
brother. So much deeper, more significant, and musical are the myths of the stern, dark, and
tender North than those of the bright and fickle South!

Notwithstanding that Valhalla was full of invincible heroes, and that the celestial city of
Asgard was the abode of the chief gods, still it had a watchman who dwelt in a tower at the
end of the Bridge Bifröst. Heimdall was his name, and he was endowed with the sharpest ear
and eye that ever warder possessed. He could hear grass and wool grow with the utmost distinctness.
The AEsir, notwithstanding their supreme position, had need of such a warder, with his Gjallar-horn,
mightier than the Paladin Astolfo's, that could make the universe reëcho to its blast. The
truth was, over even the high gods of Asgard hung a Doom which was mightier than they. It was
necessary for them to keep watch and ward, therefore, for evil things were on their trail.
There were vast, mysterious, outlying regions beyond their sway: Niflheim or Mistland, Muspellheim
or Flameland, and Jötunheim, the abode of the old earth-powers, matched with whom, even Thor,
the strongest of the Asen, was but a puny stripling. Over this old Scandinavian heaven, as
over all ethnic celestial abodes, the dark Destinies lorded it with unquestioned sway. From
the four corners of the world, at last, were to fly the snow-flakes of the dread Fimbul, Winter,
blotting the sun, and moaning and drifting night and day. Three times was Winter to come and
go, bringing to men and gods "a storm-age, a wolf-age." Then cometh Ragnarök, the Twilight
of the Gods! Odin mounts his war-steed. The vast ash Yggdrasil begins to shiver through all
its height. The beatified heroes of Valhalla, who have ever been on the watch for this dread
era, issue forth full of the old dauntless spirit of the North to meet the dread agents of
darkness and doom. Garm, the Moonhound, breaks loose, and bays. "High bloweth Heimdall his
horn aloft. Odin counselleth Mimir's head." The battle joins. In short, the fiery baptism prophesied
in the dark scrolls of Stoic sage and Hebrew and Scandinavian scald alike wraps the universe.
The dwarfs wail in their mountain-clefts. All is uproar and hissing conflagration.

  "Dimmed's now the sun;
  In ocean earth sinks;
  From the skies are cast
  The sparkling stars;
  Fire-reek rageth
  Around Time's nurse,
  And flickering flames
  With heaven itself shall play."

By "Time's nurse," in the foregoing lines from the "Voluspa," is meant the Mundane Tree Yggdrasil,
which shall survive unscathed, and wave mournfully over the universal wreck. But in the "Edda"
Hor tells Gangler that "another earth shall appear, most lovely and verdant, with pleasant
fields, where the grain shall grow unsown. Vidar and Vali shall survive. They shall dwell on
the Plain of Ida, where Asgard formerly stood. Thither shall come the sons of Thor, bringing
with them their father's mallet. Baldur and Hödur shall also repair thither from the abode
of Death. There shall they sit and converse together, and call to mind their former knowledge
and the perils they underwent."

Perhaps we might give the Eddaic Twilight of the Gods a more human and strictly European interpretation.
May it not also foreshadow the great Armageddon struggle which is evidently impending between
the Teutonic races in Western Europe, with their Protestantism, free speech, individual liberty,
right of private judgment, and scorn of all thraldom, both material and mental, on the one
side, and the dark powers of absolutism, repression, and irresponsible authority in church
and state, on the other? How Russia, the type of brute-force, presses with crushing weight
on intellectual Germany! Soon she will absorb the old kingdoms of Scandinavia,--to wit, Sweden,
Norway, and Denmark. On the shores of Norway the ruler of the Sclavonic race will hang over
Scotland and England, like a bird of prey about to swoop upon his victim. All despots and absolutists
will array themselves under his banner or be his auxiliaries. The old hierarchies will be banded
with him to crush out Protestantism, which is a plant of Teutonic growth. Old Asia, with her
rancor and despotic traditions, recognizes in the Russian imperial rule a congenial rallying-point
against the progressive and hated Anglo-Saxonism and Protestantism of the West. A decisive
struggle is surely impending between freedom and absolutism, between the bigoted adherents
of the old faiths and the nations that have cut loose from them. Perhaps this struggle may
be prefigured in the old Northern myth of the Twilight of the Gods.

