A SOLDIER OF THE EMPIRE."

By Thomas Nelson Page

1891

It was his greatest pride in life that he had been a soldier--a soldier of the empire. (He
was known simply as "The Soldier," and it is probable that there was not a man or woman, and
certain that there was not a child in the Quarter who did not know him: the tall, erect old
Sergeant with his white, carefully waxed moustache, and his face seamed with two sabre cuts.
One of these cuts, all knew, had been received the summer day when he had stood, a mere boy,
in the hollow square at Waterloo, striving to stay the fierce flood of the "men on the white
horses"; the other, tradition said, was of even more ancient date.)

Yes, they all knew him, and knew how when he was not over thirteen, just the age of little
Raoul the humpback, who was not as tall as Pauline, he had received the cross which he always
wore over his heart sewed in the breast of his coat, from the hand of the emperor himself,
for standing on the hill at Wagram when his regiment broke, and beating the long-roll, whilst
he held the tattered colors resting in his arm, until the men rallied and swept back the left
wing of the enemy. This the children knew, as their fathers and mothers and grandfathers and
grandmothers before them had known it, and rarely an evening passed that some of the gamins
were not to be found in the old man's kitchen, which was also his parlor, or else on his little
porch, listening with ever-new delight to the story of his battles and of the emperor. They
all knew as well as he the thrilling part where the emperor dashed by (the old Sergeant always
rose reverently at the name, and the little audience also stood,--one or two nervous younger
ones sometimes bobbing up a little ahead of time, but sitting down again in confusion under
the contemptuous scowls and pluckings of the rest),--where the emperor dashed by, and reined
up to ask an officer what regiment that was that had broken, and who was that drummer that
had been promoted to ensign;--they all knew how, on the grand review afterwards, the Sergeant,
beating his drum with one hand (while the other, which had been broken by a bullet, was in
a sling), had marched with his company before the emperor, and had been recognized by him.
They knew how he had been called up by a staff-officer (whom the children imagined to be a
fine gentleman with a rich uniform, and a great shako like Marie's uncle, the drum-major),
and how the emperor had taken from his own breast and with his own hand had given him the cross,
which he had never from that day removed from his heart, and had said, "I would make you a
colonel if I could spare you."

This was the story they liked best, though there were many others which they frequently begged
to be told--of march and siege and battle, of victories over or escapes from red-coated Britishers
and fierce German lancers, and of how the mere presence of the emperor was worth fifty thousand
men, and how the soldiers knew that where he was no enemy could withstand them. It all seemed
to them very long ago, and the soldier of the empire was the only man in the Quarter who was
felt to be greater than the rich nobles and fine officers who flashed along the great streets,
or glittered through the boulevards and parks outside. More than once when Paris was stirred
up, and the Quarter seemed on the eve of an outbreak, a mounted orderly had galloped up to
his door with a letter, requesting his presence somewhere (it was whispered at the prefect's),
and when he returned, if he refused to speak of his visit the Quarter was satisfied; it trusted
him and knew that when he advised quiet it was for its good. He loved France first, the Quarter
next. Had he not been offered--? What had he not been offered! The Quarter knew, or fancied
it knew, which did quite as well. At least, it knew how he always took sides with the Quarter
against oppression. It knew how he had gone up into the burning tenement and brought the children
down out of the garret just before the roof fell. It knew how he had jumped into the river
that winter when it was full of ice, to save Raoul's little lame dog which had fallen into
the water; it knew how he had reported the gendarmes for arresting poor little Aimée just for
begging a man in the Place de L'Opéra for a franc for her old grandmother, who was blind, and
how he had her released instead of being sent to ------. But what was the need of multiplying
instances! He was "the Sergeant," a soldier of the empire, and there was not a dog in the Quarter
which did not feel and look proud when it could trot on the inside of the sidewalk by him.

Thus the old Sergeant came to be regarded as the conservator of order in the Quarter, and was
worth more in the way of keeping it quiet than all the gendarmes that ever came inside its
precincts. And thus the children all knew him.

One story that the Sergeant sometimes told, the girls liked to hear, though the boys did not,
because it had nothing about war in it, and Minette and Clarisse used to cry so when it was
told, that the Sergeant would stop and put his arms around them and pet them until they only
sobbed on his shoulder.

It was of how he had, when a lonely old man, met down in Lorraine his little Camille, whose
eyes were as blue as the sky, and her hand as white as the flower from which she took her name,
and her cheeks as pink as the roses in the gardens of the Tuileries. He had loved her, and
she, though forty years his junior, had married him and had come here to live with him; but
the close walls of the city had not suited her, and she had pined and languished before his
eyes like a plucked lily, and, after she bore him Pierre, had died in his arms, and left him
lonelier than before. And the old soldier always lowered his voice and paused a moment (Raoul
said he was saying a mass), and then he would add consolingly: "But she left a soldier, and
when I am gone, should France ever need one, Pierre will be here." The boys did not fancy this
story for the reasons given, and besides, although they loved the Sergeant, they did not like
Pierre. Pierre was not popular in the Quarter,--except with the young girls and a few special
friends. The women said he was idle and vain like his mother, who had been, they said, a silly
lazy thing with little to boast of but blue eyes and a white skin, of which she was too proud
to endanger it by work, and that she had married the Sergeant for his pension, and would have
ruined him if she had lived, and that Pierre was just like her.

The children knew nothing of the resemblance. They disliked Pierre because he was cross and
disagreeable to them, and however their older sisters might admire his curling brown hair,
his dark eyes, and delicate features, which he had likewise inherited from his mother, they
did not like him; for he always scolded when he came home and found them there; and he had
several times ordered the whole lot out of the house; and once he had slapped little Raoul,
for which Jean Maison had beaten him. Of late, too, when it drew near the hour for him to come
home, the old Sergeant had two or three times left out a part of his story, and had told them
to run away and come back in the morning, as Pierre liked to be quiet when he came from his
work--which Raoul said was gambling.

Thus it was that Pierre was not popular in the Quarter.

He was nineteen years old when war was declared.

They said Prussia was trying to rob France,--to steal Alsace and Lorraine. All Paris was in
an uproar. The Quarter, always ripe for any excitement, shared in and enjoyed the general commotion.
It struck off from work. It was like the commune; at least, so people said. Pierre was the
loudest declaimer in the district. He got work in the armory.

Recruiting officers went in and out of the saloons and cafés, drinking with the men, talking
to the women, and stirring up as much fervor as possible. It needed little to stir it. The
Quarter was seething. Troops were being mustered in, and the streets and parks were filled
with the tramp of regiments; and the roll of the drums, the call of the bugles, and the cheers
of the crowds as they marched by floated into the Quarter. Brass bands were so common that
although in the winter a couple of strolling musicians had been sufficient to lose temporarily
every child in the Quarter, it now required a full band and a grenadier regiment, to boot,
to draw a tolerable representation.

Of all the residents of the Quarter, none took a deeper interest than the soldier of the empire.
He became at once an object of more than usual attention. He had married in Lorraine, and could,
of course, tell just how long it would take to whip the Prussians. He thought a single battle
would decide it. It would if the emperor were there. His little court was always full of inquirers,
and the stories of the emperor were told to audiences now of grandfathers and grandmothers.

Once or twice the gendarmes had sauntered down, thinking, from seeing the crowd, that a fight
was going on. They had stayed to hear of the emperor. A hint was dropped by the soldier of
the empire that perhaps France would conquer Prussia, and then go on across to Moscow to settle
an old score, and that night it was circulated through the Quarter that the invasion of Russia
would follow the capture of Berlin. The emperor became more popular than he had been since
the coup d'état. Half the Quarter offered its services.

The troops were being drilled night and day, and morning after morning the soldier of the empire
locked his door, buttoned his coat tightly around him, and with a stately military air marched
over to the park to see the drill, where he remained until it was time for Pierre to have his
supper.

The old Sergeant's acquaintance extended far beyond the Quarter. Indeed, his name had been
mentioned in the papers more than once, and his presence was noted at the drill by those high
in authority; so that he was often to be seen surrounded by a group listening to his accounts
of the emperor, or showing what the manuel had been in his time. His air, always soldierly,
was now imposing, and many a visitor of distinction inquiring who he might be, and learning
that he was a soldier of the empire, sought an introduction to him. Sometimes they told him
that they could hardly believe him so old, could hardly believe him much older than some of
those in the ranks, and although at first he used to declare he was like a rusty flint-lock,
too old and useless for service, their flattery soothed his vanity, and after a while, instead
of shaking his head and replying as he did at first that France had no use for old men, he
would smile doubtfully and say that when they let Pierre go, maybe he would go too, "just to
show the children how they fought then."

The summer came. The war began in earnest. The troops were sent to the front, the crowds shouting,
"On to Berlin." Others were mustered in and sent after them as fast as they were equipped.
News of battle after battle came; at first, of victory (so the papers said), full and satisfying,
then meagre and uncertain, and at last so scanty that only the wise ones knew there had been
a defeat. The Quarter was in a fever of patriotism.

Jean Maison and nearly all the young men had enlisted and gone, leaving their sweethearts by
turns waving their kerchiefs and wiping their eyes with them. Pierre, however, still remained
behind. He said he was working for the Government. Raoul said he was not working at all; that
he was skulking.

Suddenly the levy came. Pierre was conscripted.

That night the Sergeant enlisted in the same company. Before the week was out, their regiment
was equipped and dispatched to the front, for the news came that the army was making no advance,
and it was said that France needed more men. Some shook their heads and said that was not what
she needed, that what she needed was better officers. A suggestion of this by some of the recruits
in the old Sergeant's presence drew from him the rebuke that in his day "such a speech would
have called out a corporal and a file of grenadiers."

The day they were mustered in, the captain of the company sent for him and bade him have the
first sergeant's chevrons sewed on his sleeve. The order had come from the colonel, some even
said from the marshal. In the Quarter it was said that it came from the emperor. The Sergeant
suggested that Pierre was the man for the place; but the captain simply repeated the order.
The Quarter approved the selection, and several fights occurred among the children who had
gotten up a company as to who should be the sergeant. It was deemed more honorable than to
be the captain.

The day the regiment left Paris, the Sergeant was ordered to report several reliable men for
special duty; he detailed Pierre among the number. Pierre was sick, so sick that when the company
started he would have been left behind but for his father. The old soldier was too proud of
his son to allow him to miss the opportunity of fighting for France. Pierre was the handsomest
man in the regiment.

The new levies on arrival in the field went into camp, in and near some villages and were drilled,--quite
needlessly, Pierre and some of the others declared. They were not accustomed to restraint,
and they could not see why they should be worked to death when they were lying in camp doing
nothing. But the soldier of the empire was a strict drill-master, and the company was shortly
the best-drilled one in the regiment.

Yet the army lay still: they were not marching on to Berlin. The sole principle of the campaign
seemed to be the massing together of as many troops as possible. What they were to do no one
appeared very clearly to know. What they were doing all knew: they were doing nothing. The
men, at first burning for battle, became cold or lukewarm with waiting; dissatisfaction crept
in, and then murmurs: "Why did they not fight?" The soldier of the empire himself was sorely
puzzled. The art of war had clearly changed since his day. The emperor would have picked the
best third of these troops and have been at the gates of the Prussian capital in less time
than they had spent camped with the enemy right before them. Still, it was not for a soldier
to question, and he reported for a week's extra guard duty a man who ventured to complain in
his presence that the marshal knew as little as the men. Extra guard duty did no good. The
army was losing heart.

Thus it was for several weeks. But at last, one evening, it was apparent that some change was
at hand: the army stirred and shook itself as a great animal moves and stretches, not knowing
if it will awake or drop off to sleep again.

During the night it became wide awake. It was high time. The Prussians were almost on them.
They had them in a trap. They held the higher grounds and hemmed the French in. All night long
the tents were being struck, and the army was in commotion. No one knew just why it was. Some
said they were about to be attacked; some said they were surrounded. Uncertainty gave place
to excitement. At length they marched.

When day began to break, the army had been tumbled into line of battle, and the regiment in
which the old Sergeant and Pierre were was drawn up on the edge of a gentleman's park outside
of the villages. The line extended beyond them farther than they could see, and large bodies
of troops were massed behind them, and were marching and countermarching in clouds of dust.
The rumor went along the ranks that they were in the advanced line, and that the Germans were
just the other side of the little plateau, which they could dimly see in the gray light of
the dawn. The men, having been marching in the dark, were tired, and most of them lay down,
when they were halted, to rest. Some went to sleep; others, like Pierre, set to work and with
their bayonets dug little trenches and threw up a slight earthwork before them, behind which
they could lie; for the skirmishers had been thrown out, looking vague and ghostly as they
trotted forward in the dim twilight, and they supposed that the battle would be fought right
there. By the time, however, that the trenches were dug, the line was advanced, and the regiment
was moved forward some distance, and was halted just under a knoll along which ran a road.
The Sergeant was the youngest man in the company; the sound of battle had brought back all
his fire. To him numbers were nothing. He thought it now but a matter of a few hours, and France
would be at the gates of Berlin. He saw once more the field of glory and heard again the shout
of victory; Lorraine would be saved; he beheld the tricolor floating over the capital of the
enemies of France. Perhaps, it would be planted there by Pierre. And he saw in his imagination
Pierre climbing at a stride from a private to a captain, a colonel, a--! who could tell?--had
not the baton been won in a campaign? As to dreaming that a battle could bring any other result
than victory!--It was impossible!

"Where are you going?" shouted derisively the men of a regiment at rest, to the Sergeant's
command as they marched past.

"To Berlin," replied the Sergeant.

The reply evoked cheers, and that regiment that day stood its ground until a fourth of its
men fell. The old soldier's enthusiasm infected the new recruits, who were pale and nervous
under the strain of waiting. His eye rested on Pierre, who was standing down near the other
end of the company, and the father's face beamed as he thought he saw there resolution and
impatience for the fight. Ha! France should ring with his name; the Quarter should go wild
with delight.

Just then the skirmishers ahead began to fire, and in a few moments it was answered by a sullen
note from the villages beyond the plain, and the battle had begun. The dropping fire of the
skirmish line increased and merged into a rattle, and suddenly the thunder broke from a hill
to their right, and ran along the crest until the earth trembled under their feet. Bullets
began to whistle over their heads and clip the leaves of the trees beyond them, and the long,
pulsating scream of shells flying over them and exploding in the park behind them made the
faces of the men look gray in the morning twilight. Waiting was worse than fighting. It told
on the young men.

In a little while a staff-officer galloped up to the colonel, who was sitting on his horse
in the road, quietly smoking a cigar, and a moment later the whole line was in motion. They
were wheeled to the right, and marched under shelter of the knoll in the direction of the firing.
As they passed the turn of the road, they caught a glimpse of the hill ahead where the artillery,
enveloped in smoke, was thundering from an ever-thickening cloud. A battery of eight guns galloped
past them, and turning the curve disappeared in a cloud of dust. To the new recruits it seemed
as if the whole battle was being fought right there. They could see nothing but their own line,
and only a part of that; smoke and dust hid everything else; but the hill was plainly an important
point, for they were being pushed forward, and the firing on the rise ahead of them was terrific.
They were still partly protected by the ridge, but shells were screaming over them, and the
earth was rocking under their feet. More batteries came thundering by,--the men clinging to
the pieces and the drivers lashing their horses furiously,--and disappearing into the smoke
on the hill, unlimbered and swelled the deafening roar; they passed men lying on the ground
dead or wounded, or were passed by others helping wounded comrades to the rear. Several men
in the company fell, some crying out or groaning with pain, and two or three killed outright.

The men were dodging and twisting, with heads bent forward a little as if in a pelting rain.
Only the old Sergeant and some of the younger ones were perfectly erect.

"Why don't you dodge the balls?" asked a recruit of the Sergeant.

"A soldier of the empire never dodges," was the proud reply.

Some change occurred on the hills; they could not see what. Just then the order came down the
line to advance at a double-quick and support the batteries. They moved forward at a run and
passed beyond the shelter of the ridge. Instantly they were in the line of fire from the Prussian
batteries, whose white puffs of smoke were visible across the plain, and bullets and shell
tore wide spaces in their ranks. They could not see the infantrymen, who were in pits, but
the bullets hissed and whistled by them. The men on both sides of Pierre were killed and fell
forward on their faces with a thud, one of them still clutching his musket. Pierre would have
stopped, but there was no time, the men in the rear pressed him on. As they appeared in the
smoke of the nearest battery, the artillerymen broke into cheers at the welcome sight, and
all down the line it was taken up. All around were dead and dying men increasing in numbers
momentarily. No one had time to notice them. Some of them had blankets thrown over them. The
infantry, who were a little to the side of the batteries, were ordered to lie down; most of
them had already done so; even then they were barely protected; shot and shell ploughed the
ground around them as if it had been a fallow field; men spoke to their comrades, and before
receiving a reply were shot dead at their sides. The wounded were more ghastly than the dead;
their faces growing suddenly deadly white from the shock as they were struck.

The gunners lay in piles around their guns, and still the survivors worked furiously in the
dense heat and smoke, the sweat pouring down their blackened faces. The fire was terrific.

Suddenly an officer galloped up, and spoke to the lieutenant of the nearest battery.

"Where is the colonel?"

"Killed."

"Where is your captain?"

"Dead, there under the gun."

"Are you in command?"

"I suppose so."

"Well, hold this hill."

"How long?"

"Forever." And he galloped off.

His voice was heard clear and ringing in a sudden lull, and the old Sergeant, clutching his
musket, shouted:

"We will, forever."

There was a momentary lull.

Suddenly the cry was:

"Here they are."

In an instant a dark line of men appeared coming up the slope. The guns were trained down on
them, but shot over their heads; they were double shotted and trained lower, and belched forth
canister. They fell in swathes, yet still they came on at a run, hurrahing, until they were
almost up among the guns, and the gunners were leaving their pieces. The old Sergeant's voice
speaking to his men was as steady as if on parade, and kept them down, and when the command
was given to fire kneeling, they rose as one man, and poured a volley into the Germans' faces
which sent them reeling back down the hill, leaving a broken line of dead and struggling men
on the deadly crest. Just then a brigade officer came along. They heard him say, "That repulse
may stop them." Then he gave some order in an undertone to the lieutenant in command of the
batteries, and passed on. A moment later the fire from the Prussian batteries was heavier than
before; the guns were being knocked to pieces. A piece of shell struck the Sergeant on the
cheek, tearing away the flesh badly. He tore the sleeve from his shirt and tied it around his
head with perfect unconcern. The fire of the Germans was still growing heavier; the smoke was
too dense to see a great deal, but they were concentrating or were coming closer. The lieutenant
came back for a moment and spoke to the captain of the company, who, looking along the line,
called the Sergeant, and ordered him to go back down the hill to where the road turned behind
it, and tell General ------ to send them a support instantly, as the batteries were knocked
to pieces, and they could not hold the hill much longer. The announcement was astonishing to
the old soldier; it had never occurred to him that as long as a man remained they could not
hold the hill, and he was half-way down the slope before he took it in. He had brought his
gun with him, and he clutched it convulsively as if he could withstand alone the whole Prussian
army. "He might have taken a younger man to do his trotting," he muttered to himself as he
stalked along, not knowing that his wound had occasioned his selection. "Pierre--" but, no,
Pierre must stay where he would have the opportunity to distinguish himself.

It was no holiday promenade that the old soldier was taking; for his path lay right across
the track swept by the German batteries, and the whole distance was strewn with dead, killed
as they had advanced in the morning. But the old Sergeant got safely across. He found the General
with one or two members of his staff sitting on horseback in the road near the park gate, receiving
and answering dispatches. He delivered his message.

"Go back and tell him he must hold it," was the reply. "Upon it depends the fate of the day;
perhaps of France. Or wait, you are wounded; I will send some one else; you go to the rear."
And he gave the order to one of his staff, who saluted and dashed off on his horse. "Hold it
for France," he called after him.

The words were heard perfectly clear even above the din of battle which was steadily increasing
all along the line, and they stirred the old soldier like a trumpet. No rear for him! He turned
and pushed back up the hill at a run. The road had somewhat changed since he left, but he marked
it not; shot and shell were ploughing across his path more thickly, but he did not heed them;
in his ears rang the words--"For France." They came like an echo from the past; it was the
same cry he had heard at Waterloo, when the soldiers of France that summer day had died for
France and the emperor, with a cheer on their lips. "For France": the words were consecrated;
the emperor himself had used them. He had heard him, and would have died then; should he not
die now for her! Was it not glorious to die for France, and have men say that he had fought
for her when a babe, and had died for her when an old man!

With these thoughts was mingled the thought of Pierre--Pierre also would die for France! They
would save her or die together; and he pressed his hand with a proud caress over the cross
on his breast. It was the emblem of glory.

He was almost back with his men now; he knew it by the roar, but the smoke hid everything.
Just then it shifted a little. As it did so, he saw a man steal out of the dim line and start
towards him at a run. He had on the uniform of his regiment. His cap was pulled over his eyes,
and he saw him deliberately fling away his gun. He was skulking. All the blood boiled up in
the old soldier's veins. Desert!--not fight for France! Why did not Pierre shoot him! Just
then the coward passed close to him, and the old man seized him with a grip of iron. The deserter,
surprised, turned his face; it was pallid with terror and shame; but no more so than his captor's.
It was Pierre.

"Pierre!" he gasped. "Good God! where are you going?"

"I am sick," faltered the other.

"Come back," said the father sternly.

"I cannot," was the terrified answer.

"It is for France, Pierre," pleaded the old soldier.

"Oh! I cannot," moaned the young man, pulling away. There was a pause--the old man still holding
on hesitatingly, then,--"Dastard!" he hissed, flinging his son from him with indescribable scorn.

Pierre, free once more, was slinking off with averted face, when anew idea seized his father,
and his face grew grim as stone. Cocking his musket, he flung it up, took careful and deliberate
aim at his son's retreating figure, and brought his finger slowly down upon the trigger. But,
before he could fire, a shell exploded directly in the line of his aim, and when the smoke
blew off, Pierre had disappeared. The Sergeant lowered his piece, gazed curiously down the
hill, and then hurried to the spot where the shell had burst. A mangled form marked the place.
The coward had in the very act of flight met the death he dreaded. Pierre lay dead on his face,
shot in the back. The back of his head was shattered by a fragment of shell. The countenance
of the living man was more pallid than that of the dead. No word escaped him, except that refrain,
"For France, for France," which he repeated mechanically.

Although this had occupied but a few minutes, momentous changes had taken place on the ridge
above. The sound of the battle had somewhat altered, and with the roar of artillery were mingled
now the continuous rattle of the musketry and the shouts and cheers of the contending troops.
The fierce onslaught of the Prussians had broken the line somewhere beyond the batteries, and
the French were being borne back. Almost immediately the slope was filled with retreating men
hurrying back in the demoralization of panic. All order was lost. It was a rout. The soldiers
of his own regiment began to rush by the spot where the old Sergeant stood above his son's
body. Recognizing him, some of his comrades seized his arm and attempted to hurry him along;
but with a fierce exclamation the old soldier shook them off, and raising his voice so that
he was heard even above the tumult of the rout, he shouted, "Are ye all cowards? Rally for
France--For France----"

They tried to bear him along; the officers, they said, were dead; the Prussians had captured
the guns, and had broken the whole line. But it was no use; still he shouted that rallying
cry, For France, for France, "Vive la France; Vive l'Empereur"; and steadied by the war-cry,
and accustomed to obey an officer, the men around him fell instinctively into something like
order, and for an instant the rout was arrested. The fight was renewed over Pierre's dead body.
As they had, however, truly said, the Prussians were too strong for them. They had carried
the line and were now pouring down the hill by thousands in the ardor of hot pursuit, the line
on either side of the hill was swept away, and whilst the gallant little band about the old
soldier still stood and fought desperately, they were soon surrounded. There was no thought
of quarter; none was asked, none was given. It was the refrain from an older and bloodier field.
He thought he was at Waterloo.

Mad with excitement, the men took up the cry, and fought like tigers; but the issue could not
be doubtful.

Man after man fell, shot or clubbed down, with the cry "For France" on his lips, and his comrades,
standing astride his body, fought with bayonets and clubbed muskets till they too fell in turn.
Almost the last one was the old Sergeant. Wounded to death, and bleeding from numberless gashes,
he still fought, shouting his battle-cry, "For France," till his musket was hurled spinning
from his shattered hand, and staggering senseless back, a dozen bayonets were driven into his
breast, crushing out forever the brave spirit of the soldier of the empire.

It was best, for France was lost.

A few hours later the Quarter was in mourning over the terrible defeat.

* * * * *

That night a group of Prussian officers going over the field with lanterns looking after their
wounded, stopped near a spot remarkable even on that bloody slope for the heaps of dead of
both armies literally piled upon each other.

"It was just here," said one, "that they got reinforcements and made that splendid rally."

A second, looking at the body of an old French sergeant lying amidst heaps of slain, with his
face to the sky, said simply as he saw his scars:

"There died a brave soldier."

Another, older than the first, bending closer to count the bayonet wounds, caught the gleam
of something in the light of the lantern, and stooping to examine a broken cross of the Legion
on the dead man's breast, said reverently:

"He was a soldier of the empire."

