In the first place, it is not a beauty of ornament; it is a beauty of structure, a beauty of
rightness and simplicity. Compare an athlete in flannels playing tennis and a stout dignitary
smothered in gold robes. Or compare a good modern yacht, swift, lithe, and plain, with a lumbering
heavily gilded sixteenth-century galleon, or even with a Chinese state junk: the yacht is far
the more beautiful though she has not a hundredth part of the ornament. It is she herself that
is beautiful, because her lines and structure are right. The others are essentially clumsy
and, therefore, ugly things, dabbed over with gold and paint. Now ancient Greek things for
the most part have the beauty of the yacht. The Greeks used paint a good deal, but apart from
that a Greek temple is almost as plain as a shed: people accustomed to arabesques and stained
glass and gargoyles can very often see nothing in it. A Greek statue has as a rule no ornament
at all: a young man racing or praying, an old man thinking, there it stands expressed in a
stately and simple convention, true or false, the anatomy and the surfaces right or wrong,
aiming at no beauty except the truest. It would probably seem quite dull to the maker of a
mediaeval wooden figure of a king which I remember seeing in a town in the east of Europe:
a crown blazing with many-coloured glass, a long crimson robe covered with ornaments and beneath
them an idiot face, no bones, no muscles, no attitude. That is not what a Greek meant by beauty.
The same quality holds to a great extent of Greek poetry. Not, of course, that the artistic
convention was the same, or at all similar, for treating stone and for treating language. Greek
poetry is statuesque in the sense that it depends greatly on its organic structure; it is not
in the least so in the sense of being cold or colourless or stiff. But Greek poetry on the
whole has a bareness and severity which disappoints a modern reader, accustomed as he is to
lavish ornament and exaggeration at every turn. It has the same simplicity and straightforwardness
as Greek sculpture. The poet has something to say and he says it as well and truly as he can
in the suitable style, and if you are not interested you are not. With some exceptions which
explain themselves he does not play a thousand pretty tricks and antics on the way, so that
you may forget the dullness of what he says in amusement at the draperies in which he wraps it.

But here comes an apparent difficulty. Greek poetry, we say, is very direct, very simple, very
free from irrelevant ornament. And yet when we translate it into English and look at our translation,
our main feeling, I think, is that somehow the glory has gone: a thing that was high and lordly
has become poor and mean. Any decent Greek scholar when he opens one of his ancient poets feels
at once the presence of something lofty and rare--something like the atmosphere of Paradise
Lost. But the language of Paradise Lost is elaborately twisted and embellished into loftiness
and rarity; the language of the Greek poem is simple and direct. What does this mean?

I can only suppose that the normal language of Greek poetry is in itself in some sense sublime.
Most critics accept this as an obvious fact, yet, if true, it is a very strange fact and worth
thinking about. It depends partly on mere euphony: Khaireis horôn fôs is probably more beautiful
in sound than 'You rejoice to see the light', but euphony cannot be everything. The sound of
a great deal of Greek poetry, either as we pronounce it, or as the ancients pronounced it,
is to modern ears almost ugly. It depends partly, perhaps, on the actual structure of the Greek
language: philologists tell us that, viewed as a specimen, it is in structure and growth and
in power of expressing things, the most perfect language they know. And certainly one often
finds that a thought can be expressed with ease and grace in Greek which becomes clumsy and
involved in Latin, English, French or German. But neither of these causes goes, I think, to
the root of the matter.

What is it that gives words their character and makes a style high or low? Obviously, their
associations; the company they habitually keep in the minds of those who use them. A word which
belongs to the language of bars and billiard saloons will become permeated by the normal standard
of mind prevalent in such places; a word which suggests Milton or Carlyle will have the flavour
of those men's minds about it. I therefore cannot resist the conclusion that, if the language
of Greek poetry has, to those who know it intimately, this special quality of keen austere
beauty, it is because the minds of the poets who used that language were habitually toned to
a higher level both of intensity and of nobility than ours. It is a finer language because
it expresses the minds of finer men. By 'finer men' I do not necessarily mean men who behaved
better, either by our standards or by their own; I mean men to whom the fine things of the
world, sunrise and sea and stars and the love of man for man, and strife and the facing of
evil for the sake of good, and even common things like meat and drink, and evil things like
hate and terror, had, as it were, a keener edge than they have for us and roused a swifter
and a nobler reaction.

Let us resume this argument before going further. We start from the indisputable fact that
the Greeks of about the fifth century B. C. did for some reason or other produce various works
of art, buildings and statues and books, especially books, which instead of decently dying
or falling out of fashion in the lifetime of the men who made them, lasted on and can still
cause high thoughts and intense emotions. In trying to explain this strange fact we notice
that the Greeks had a great and pervading instinct for beauty, and for beauty of a particular
kind. It is a beauty which never lies in irrelevant ornament, but always in the very essence
and structure of the object made. In literature we found that the special beauty which we call
Greek depends partly on the directness, truthfulness, and simplicity with which the Greeks
say what they want to say, and partly on a special keenness and nobility in the language, which
seems to be the natural expression of keen and noble minds. Can we in any way put all these
things together so as to explain them--or at any rate to hold them together more clearly?

An extremely old and often misleading metaphor will help us. People have said: 'The world was
young then.' Of course, strictly speaking, it was not. In the total age of the world or of
man the two thousand odd years between us and Pericles do not count for much. Nor can we imagine
that a man of sixty felt any more juvenile in the fifth century B. C. than he does now. It
was just the other way, because at that time there were no spectacles or false teeth. Yet in
a sense the world was young then, at any rate our western world, the world of progress and
humanity. For the beginnings of nearly all the great things that progressive minds now care
for were then being laid in Greece.

Youth, perhaps, is not exactly the right word. There are certain plants--some kinds of aloe,
for instance--which continue for an indefinite number of years in a slow routine of ordinary
life close to the ground, and then suddenly, when they have stored enough vital force, grow
ten feet high and burst into flower, after which, no doubt, they die or show signs of exhaustion.
Apart from the dying, it seems as if something like that happened from time to time to the
human race, or to such parts of it as really bear flowers at all. For most races and nations
during the most of their life are not progressive but simply stagnant, sometimes just managing
to preserve their standard customs, sometimes slipping back to the slough. That is why history
has nothing to say about them. The history of the world consists mostly in the memory of those
ages, quite few in number, in which some part of the world has risen above itself and burst
into flower or fruit.

We ourselves happen to live in the midst or possibly in the close of one such period. More
change has probably taken place in daily life, in ideas, and in the general aspect of the earth
during the last century than during any four other centuries since the Christian era: and this
fact has tended to make us look on rapid progress as a normal condition of the human race,
which it never has been. And another such period of bloom, a bloom comparatively short in time
and narrow in area, but amazingly swift and intense, occurred in the lower parts of the Balkan
peninsula from about the sixth to the fourth centuries before Christ.

Now it is this kind of bloom which fills the world with hope and therefore makes it young.
Take a man who has just made a discovery or an invention, a man happily in love, a man who
is starting some great and successful social movement, a man who is writing a book or painting
a picture which he knows to be good; take men who have been fighting in some great cause which
before they fought seemed to be hopeless and now is triumphant; think of England when the Armada
was just defeated, France at the first dawn of the Revolution, America after Yorktown: such
men and nations will be above themselves. In that sense the world will be young. In that sense
I think it was young in the time of Themistocles and Aeschylus. And it is that youth which
is half the secret of the Greek spirit.

And here I may meet an objection that has perhaps been lurking in the minds of many readers.
'All this,' they may say, 'professes to be a simple analysis of known facts, but in reality
is sheer idealization. These Greeks whom you call so "noble" have been long since exposed.
Anthropology has turned its searchlights upon them. It is not only their ploughs, their weapons,
their musical instruments, and their painted idols that resemble those of the savages; it is
everything else about them. Many of them were sunk in the most degrading superstitions: many
practised unnatural vices: in times of great fear some were apt to think that the best "medicine"
was a human sacrifice. After that, it is hardly worth mentioning that their social structure
was largely based on slavery; that they lived in petty little towns, like so many wasps' nests,
each at war with its next-door neighbour, and half of them at war with themselves!'

If our anti-Greek went further he would probably cease to speak the truth. We will stop him
while we can still agree with him. These charges are on the whole true, and, if we are to understand
what Greece means, we must realize and digest them. We must keep hold of two facts: first,
that the Greeks of the fifth century produced some of the noblest poetry and art, the finest
political thinking, the most vital philosophy, known to the world; second, that the people
who heard and saw, nay perhaps, even the people who produced these wonders, were separated
by a thin and precarious interval from the savage. Scratch a civilized Russian, they say, and
you find a wild Tartar. Scratch an ancient Greek, and you hit, no doubt, on a very primitive
and formidable being, somewhere between a Viking and a Polynesian.

That is just the magic and the wonder of it. The spiritual effort implied is so tremendous.
We have read stories of savage chiefs converted by Christian or Buddhist missionaries, who
within a year or so have turned from drunken corroborees and bloody witch-smellings to a life
that is not only godly but even philanthropic and statesmanlike. We have seen the Japanese
lately go through some centuries of normal growth in the space of a generation. But in all
such examples men have only been following the teaching of a superior civilization, and after
all, they have not ended by producing works of extraordinary and original genius. It seems
quite clear that the Greeks owed exceedingly little to foreign influence. Even in their decay
they were a race, as Professor Bury observes, accustomed 'to take little and to give much'.
They built up their civilization for themselves. We must listen with due attention to the critics
who have pointed out all the remnants of savagery and superstition that they find in Greece:
the slave-driver, the fetish-worshipper and the medicine-man, the trampler on women, the bloodthirsty
hater of all outside his own town and party. But it is not those people that constitute Greece;
those people can be found all over the historical world, commoner than blackberries. It is
not anything fixed and stationary that constitutes Greece: what constitutes Greece is the movement
which leads from all these to the Stoic or fifth-century 'sophist' who condemns and denies
slavery, who has abolished all cruel superstitions and preaches some religion based on philosophy
and humanity, who claims for women the same spiritual rights as for man, who looks on all human
creatures as his brethren, and the world as 'one great City of gods and men'. It is that movement
which you will not find elsewhere, any more than the statues of Pheidias or the dialogues of
Plato or the poems of Aeschylus and Euripides.

From all this two or three results follow. For one thing, being built up so swiftly, by such
keen effort, and from so low a starting-point, Greek civilization was, amid all its glory,
curiously unstable and full of flaws. Such flaws made it, of course, much worse for those who
lived in it, but they hardly make it less interesting or instructive to those who study it.
Rather the contrary. Again, the near neighbourhood of the savage gives to the Greek mind certain
qualities which we of the safer and solider civilizations would give a great deal to possess.
It springs swift and straight. It is never jaded. Its wonder and interest about the world are
fresh. And lastly there is one curious and very important quality which, unless I am mistaken,
belongs to Greek civilization more than to any other. To an extraordinary degree it starts
clean from nature, with almost no entanglements of elaborate creeds and customs and traditions.

I am not, of course, forgetting the prehistoric Minoan civilization, nor yet the peculiar forms--mostly
simple enough--into which the traditional Greek religion fell. It is possible that I may be
a little misled by my own habit of living much among Greek things and so forgetting through
long familiarity how odd some of them once seemed. But when all allowances are made, I think
that this clean start from nature is, on the whole, a true claim. If a thoughtful European
or American wants to study Chinese or Indian things, he has not only to learn certain data
of history and mythology, he has to work his mind into a particular attitude; to put on, as
it were, spectacles of a particular sort. If he wants to study mediaeval things, if he takes
even so universal a poet as Dante, it is something the same. Curious views about the Pope and
the emperor, a crabbed scholastic philosophy, a strange and to the modern mind rather horrible
theology, floating upon the flames of Hell: all these have somehow to be taken into his imagination
before he can understand his Dante. With Greek things this is very much less so. The historical
and imaginative background of the various great poets and philosophers is, no doubt, highly
important. A great part of the work of modern scholarship is now devoted to getting it clearer.
But on the whole, putting aside for the moment the possible inadequacies of translation, Greek
philosophy speaks straight to any human being who is willing to think simply, Greek art and
poetry to any one who can use his imagination and enjoy beauty. He has not to put on the fetters
or the blinkers of any new system in order to understand them; he has only to get rid of his
own--a much more profitable and less troublesome task.

This particular conclusion will scarcely, I think, be disputed, but the point presents difficulties
and must be dwelt upon.

In the first place, it does not mean that Greek art is what we call 'naturalist' or 'realist'.
It is markedly the reverse. Art to the Greek is always a form of Sophia, or Wisdom, a Technê
with rules that have to be learnt. Its air of utter simplicity is deceptive. The pillar that
looks merely straight is really a thing of subtle curves. The funeral bas-relief that seems
to represent in the simplest possible manner a woman saying good-bye to her child is arranged,
plane behind plane, with the most delicate skill and sometimes with deliberate falsification
of perspective. There is always some convention, some idealization, some touch of the light
that never was on sea or land. Yet all the time, I think, Greek art remains in a remarkable
degree close to nature. The artist's eye is always on the object, and, though he represents
it in his own style, that style is always normal and temperate, free from affectation, free
from exaggeration or morbidity and, in the earlier periods, free from conventionality. It is
art without doubt; but it is natural and normal art, such as grew spontaneously when mankind
first tried in freedom to express beauty. For example, the language of Greek poetry is markedly
different from that of prose, and there are even clear differences of language between different
styles of poetry. And further, the poetry is very seldom about the present. It is about the
past, and that an ideal past. What we have to notice there is that this kind of rule, which
has been usual in all great ages of poetry, is apparently not an artificial or arbitrary thing
but a tendency that grew up naturally with the first great expressions of poetical feeling.

Furthermore, this closeness to nature, this absence of a unifying or hide-bound system of thought,
acting together with other causes, has led to the extraordinary variety and many-sidedness
which is one of the most puzzling charms of Ancient Greece as contrasted, say, with Israel
or Assyria or early Rome. Geographically it is a small country with a highly indented coast-line
and an interior cut into a great number of almost isolated valleys. Politically it was a confused
unity made up of numerous independent states, one walled city of a few thousand inhabitants
being quite enough to form a state. And the citizens of these states were, each of them, rather
excessively capable of forming opinions of their own and fighting for them. Hence came in practice
much isolation and faction and general weakness, to the detriment of the Greeks themselves;
but the same cause led in thought and literature to immense variety and vitality, to the great
gain of us who study the Greeks afterwards. There is hardly any type of thought or style of
writing which cannot be paralleled in ancient Greece, only they will there be seen, as it were,
in their earlier and simpler forms. Traces of all the things that seem most un-Greek can be
found somewhere in Greek literature: voluptuousness, asceticism, the worship of knowledge,
the contempt for knowledge, atheism, pietism, the religion of serving the world and the religion
of turning away from the world: all these and almost all other points of view one can think
of are represented somewhere in the records of that one small people. And there is hardly any
single generalization in this chapter which the author himself could not controvert by examples
to the contrary. You feel in general a great absence of all fetters: the human mind free, rather
inexperienced, intensely interested in life and full of hope, trying in every direction for
that excellence which the Greeks called aretê, and guided by some peculiar instinct toward
Temperance and Beauty.

The variety is there and must not be forgotten; yet amid the variety there are certain general
or central characteristics, mostly due to this same quality of freshness and closeness to nature.

If you look at a Greek statue or bas-relief, or if you read an average piece of Aristotle,
you will very likely at first feel bored. Why? Because it is all so normal and truthful; so
singularly free from exaggeration, paradox, violent emphasis; so destitute of those fascinating
by-forms of insanity which appeal to some similar faint element of insanity in ourselves. 'We
are sick', we may exclaim, 'of the sight of these handsome, perfectly healthy men with grave
faces and normal bones and muscles! We are sick of being told that Virtue is a mean between
two extremes and tends to make men happy! We shall not be interested unless some one tells
us that Virtue is the utter abnegation of self, or, it may be, the extreme and ruthless assertion
of self; or again, that Virtue is all an infamous mistake! And for statues, give us a haggard
man with starved body and cavernous eyes, cursing God--or give us something rolling in fat
and colour....'

What is at the back of this sort of feeling? which I admit often takes more reasonable forms
than these I have suggested. It is the same psychological cause that brings about the changes
of fashion in art or dress: which loves 'stunts' and makes the fortunes of yellow newspapers.
It is boredom or ennui. We have had too much of A; we are sick of it, we know how it is done
and despise it; give us some B, or better still some Z. And after a strong dose of Z we shall
crave for the beginning of the alphabet again. But now think of a person who is not bored at
all; who is, on the contrary, immensely interested in the world, keen to choose good things
and reject bad ones; full of the desire for knowledge and the excitement of discovery. The
joy to him is to see things as they are and to judge them normally. He is not bored by the
sight of normal, healthy muscles in a healthy, well-shaped body; he is delighted. If you distort
the muscles for emotional effect, he would say with disappointment: 'But that is ugly!' or
'But a man's muscles do not go like that!' He will have noted that tears are salt and rather
warm; but if you say like a modern poet that your heroine's tears are 'more hot than fire,
more salt than the salt sea', he will probably think your statement απιθανον {apithanon} 'unpersuasive',
and therefore ψυχρον {psychron} 'chilling'.

It is perhaps especially in the religious and moral sphere that we are accustomed to the habitual
use of ecstatic language: expressions that are only true of exalted moments are used by us
as the commonplaces of ordinary life. 'It is a thousand times worse to see another suffer than
to suffer oneself.' 'True love only desires the happiness of the beloved object.' This kind
of 'high falutin'' has become part of our regular mental habit, just as dead metaphors by the
bushel are a part of our daily language. Consequently we are a little chilled and disappointed
by a language in which people hardly ever use a metaphor except when they vividly realize it,
and never utter heroic sentiments except when they are wrought up to the pitch of feeling them
true. Does this mean that the Greek always remains, so to speak, at a normal temperature, that
he never has intense or blinding emotions? Not in the least. It shows a lack of faith in the
value of life to imagine such a conclusion. It implies that you can only reach great emotion
by pretence, or by habitually exaggerating small emotions, whereas probably the exact reverse
is the case. When the great thing comes, then the Greek will have the great word and the great
thought ready. It is the habitual exaggerator who will perhaps be bankrupt. And after all--the
great things are sure to come!

The power of seeing things straight and knowing what is beautiful or noble, quite undisturbed
by momentary boredoms or changes of taste, is a very rare gift and never perhaps possessed
in full by any one. But there is a profound rule of art, bidding a man in the midst of all
his study of various styles or his pursuit of his own peculiar imaginations, from time to time
se retremper dans la nature--'to steep himself again in nature'. And in something the same
way it seems as if the world ought from time to time to steep itself again in Hellenism: that
is, it ought, amid all the varying affectations and extravagances and changes of convention
in art and letters, to have some careful regard for those which arose when man first awoke
to the meaning of truth and beauty and saw the world freely as a new thing.

Is this exaggeration? I think not. But no full defence of it can be attempted here. In this
essay we have been concerned almost entirely with the artistic interest of Greece. It would
be equally possible to dwell on the historical interest. Then we should find that, for that
branch of mankind which is responsible for western civilization, the seeds of almost all that
we count best in human progress were sown in Greece. The conception of beauty as a joy in itself
and as a guide in life was first and most vividly expressed in Greece, and the very laws by
which things are beautiful or ugly were to a great extent discovered there and laid down. The
conception of Freedom and Justice, freedom in body, in speech and in mind, justice between
the strong and the weak, the rich and the poor, penetrates the whole of Greek political thought,
and was, amid obvious flaws, actually realized to a remarkable degree in the best Greek communities.
The conception of Truth as an end to pursue for its own sake, a thing to discover and puzzle
out by experiment and imagination and especially by Reason, a conception essentially allied
with that of Freedom and opposed both to anarchy and to blind obedience, has perhaps never
in the world been more clearly grasped than by the early Greek writers on science and philosophy.
One stands amazed sometimes at the perfect freedom of their thought. Another conception came
rather later, when the small City States with exclusive rights of citizenship had been merged
in a larger whole: the conception of the universal fellowship between man and man. Greece realized
soon after the Persian war that she had a mission to the world, that Hellenism stood for the
higher life of man as against barbarism, for Aretê, or Excellence, as against the mere effortless
average. First came the crude patriotism which regarded every Greek as superior to every barbarian;
then came reflection, showing that not all Greeks were true bearers of the light, nor all barbarians
its enemies; that Hellenism was a thing of the spirit and not dependent on the race to which
a man belonged or the place where he was born: then came the new word and conception ανθρωποτης
{anthrôpotês}, humanitas, which to the Stoics made the world as one brotherhood. No people
known to history clearly formulated these ideals before the Greeks, and those who have spoken
the words afterwards seem for the most part to be merely echoing the thoughts of old Greek men.

These ideas, the pursuit of Truth, Freedom, Beauty, Excellence are not everything. They have
been a leaven of unrest in the world; they have held up a light which was not always comforting
to the eyes to see. There is another ideal which is generally stronger and may, for all we
know, in the end stamp them out as evil things. There is Submission instead of Freedom, the
deadening or brutalizing of the senses instead of Beauty, the acceptance of tradition instead
of the pursuit of Truth, the belief in hallucination or passion instead of Reason and Temperate
Thought, the obscuring of distinctions between good and bad and the acceptance of all human
beings and all states of mind as equal in value. If something of this kind should prove in
the end to be right for man, then Greece will have played the part of the great wrecker in
human history. She will have held up false lights which have lured our ship to dangerous places.
But at any rate, through calm and storm, she does hold her lights; she lit them first of the
nations and held them during her short reign the clearest; and whether we believe in an individual
life founded on Freedom, Reason, Beauty, Excellence and the pursuit of Truth, and an international
life aiming at the fellowship between man and man, or whether we think these ideals the great
snares of human politics, there is good cause for some of us in each generation at the cost
of some time and trouble to study such important forces where they first appear consciously
in the minds of our spiritual ancestors. In the thought and art of ancient Greece, more than
any other, we shall find these forces, and also to some extent their great opposites, fresh,
clean and comparatively uncomplicated, with every vast issue wrought out on a small material
scale and every problem stated in its lowest terms.

GILBERT MURRAY.

RELIGION

Those who write about the Greeks must beware of a heresy which is very rife just now--the theory
of racialism. Political ethnology, which is no genuine science, excused the ambition of the
Germans to themselves, and helped them to wage war; it has suggested to the Allies a method
of waging peace. The false and mischievous doctrine of superior and inferior races is used
to justify oppression in Europe, and murder by torture in America. It will not help us to understand
the Greeks. The Greeks were a nation of splendid mongrels, made up of the same elements, differently
mixed, as ourselves. Their famous beauty, which had almost disappeared when Cicero visited
Athens, was mainly the result of a healthy outdoor life and physical training, combined with
a very becoming costume. They were probably not handsomer than Oxford rowing crews or Eton
boys. Their flowering time of genius was due to the same causes which produced similar results
in the Italian Renaissance. The city-state is a forcing-house of brilliant achievement, though
it quickly uses up its human material. We cannot even regard the Greeks as a homogeneous mixed
race. The Spartiates were almost pure Nordics; the Athenians almost pure Mediterraneans. The
early colonists, from whom sprang so many of the greatest names in the Hellenic roll of honour,
are not likely to have kept their blood pure. Nor was there ever a Greek culture shared by
all the Greeks. The Spartan system, that of a small fighting tribe encamped in a subject country,
recalls that of Chaka's Zulus; Arcadia was bucolic, Aetolia barbarous, Boeotia stolid, Macedonia
half outside the pale. The consciousness of race among the Greeks counted practically for about
as much as the consciousness of being white men, or Christians, does in modern civilization.

