TRAINING THE TEACHER

                                  BY

                        A. F. Schauffler, D.D.
                    Antoinette Abernethy Lamoreaux
                   Martin G. Brumbaugh, Ph.D., LL.D.
                           Marion Lawrance

                      Supplementary chapters by
                          Charles A. Oliver
                       Ira Maurice Price, Ph.D.

              Approved as a First Standard Course by the
                       Committee on Education,
               International Sunday School Association

                   THE SUNDAY SCHOOL TIMES COMPANY
                             PHILADELPHIA

                           COPYRIGHT, 1908,
                  BY THE SUNDAY SCHOOL TIMES COMPANY
              ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL, LONDON, 1908

                         ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CONTENTS

     ORGANIZING AND CONDUCTING A TEACHER-TRAINING CLASS        5
       CHARLES A. OLIVER

  1. THE BOOK                                                 11
       A. F. SCHAUFFLER, D.D.

     HOW THE BIBLE CAME TO US                                123
       IRA MAURICE PRICE, PH.D.

     THE GIST OF THE BOOKS                                   129
       COMPILED

  2. THE PUPIL                                               139
       ANTOINETTE ABERNETHY LAMOREAUX

  3. THE TEACHER                                             181
       MARTIN G. BRUMBAUGH, PH.D., LL.D.

  4. THE SCHOOL                                              219
       MARION LAWRANCE

     APPENDIX
       TEACHING HINTS                                        259
       PAUL'S JOURNEYS                                       266
       THE TWELVE TRIBES, MAP                                270
       ASSYRIA AND CANAAN, MAP                               270
       EXODUS AND WANDERINGS, MAP                            271

Organizing and Conducting the Teacher-training Class

CHARLES A. OLIVER

    Teacher-Training Superintendent Pennsylvania
    State Sabbath School Association.

#Teacher-training Needed.#--No more serious problem faces the Sunday-school to-day than the
question of securing more teachers and better teaching. We owe it to those who are called to
teach the Word to see that means of thorough preparation be brought within their reach. The
best teachers will welcome a better training for Christ's service and many good people who
have not found their place in the work of the church will gladly engage in Sunday-school teaching
after they have been specially instructed in the Bible and in the principles of teaching.

This book provides the essential elements for the teacher-training course in four sections:
(1) The Bible material which is the basis for all Sunday-school instruction, under the title
of "The Book," by Dr. Schauffler. (2) A study of the working of the mind at various ages and
under differing conditions (a brief study of psychology), under the title of "The Pupil," by
Mrs. Lamoreaux. (3) A study of teaching principles and the application of these principles
(a brief study of pedagogy), under the title of "The Teacher," by Dr. Brumbaugh. (4) A study
of the place in which this instruction should be given, that is, "The School," by Mr. Lawrance.
Additional material for instruction will be found in the chapter "How the Bible came to Us"
by Professor Ira Maurice Price, and "The Gist of the Books."

#Starting a Class.#--(1) No better beginning can be made than a prayerful conference between
the pastor and the Sunday-school superintendent to determine the need and possibilities of
teacher-training within the local school. (2) The nearest representative of organized Sunday-school
work in your county or State will gladly furnish you with printed matter pointing out the teacher-training
plans in successful use in your denomination. (3) Select your text-book and familiarize yourself
with it. (4) Call the teachers and officers together. Have a half-hour social feature, to be
followed with an earnest address on the need and the plan of teacher-training. Teach a sample
lesson from the text-book. Endeavor in that meeting to secure at least a few persons who will
agree to enter a class and will promise to do personal work to secure other members. But do
not make the mistake of requiring a large class before beginning. A leader and two or more
students will constitute a class.

#Who Should Enter the Class?#--Two general plans are now in operation. One provides for a training
class for present teachers. This class should meet at a convenient time during the week to
follow the course in a teacher-training text-book. A whole evening could profitably be given
to class work. If this is not feasible the class may meet for study at the time of the weekly
teachers'-meeting or before or after the mid-week prayer service.

A second plan provides for the training of prospective teachers, and this may be done in a
class meeting at the time of the regular school session. These should be found in the senior
and adult departments of the school and should be sixteen years of age or older. The most promising
young people in the school should be sought for membership in this class. If possible, a separate
room should be provided so that the time of the closing exercises of the school could be added
to the lesson period of the class. This will enable the class to devote ten minutes to a brief
study of the spiritual teachings of the general Bible lesson for the day and yet leave a half-hour
or more for the training lesson.

It should not be overlooked that if a class for present teachers is established, the officers
of the school will find the course invaluable and parents will secure very helpful instruction
in the care and nurture of young children.

#Making the Class a Success.#--It is possible for one student to follow a teacher-training
course alone, but it is very desirable for two or more to join and take the course in class.
Several persons meeting for conference will bring better results than the same persons studying
individually. The class should have a leader who is a sympathetic, patient, tactful Christian
man or woman, who will inspire the members to continue in their work, and who will see that
every session of the class is a conference and not a lecture. Indifferent work should be discouraged.
The members of the class are more likely to continue to the end of the course if they have
the consciousness of mastering the work. The question and answer method should be emphasized,
and the entire period of the class should be given at frequent intervals to reviews. Illuminating
essays and talks may be brought into the class, but these should be brief, and should deal
in a simple way with side-lights on the lesson assigned for that period.

It is very desirable that the class should be enrolled with the denominational teacher-training
department and with the State Sunday School Association. This enrolment will furnish the officers
of these organizations with information which will enable them to keep in touch with the class
and to send from time to time helpful and inspirational suggestions. The enrolment of the class
will also cause the members to feel the importance of the course and will strengthen the sense
of obligation to do thorough work.

The official examinations are of the greatest importance, and should be taken by every member
of the class. These examination tests intensify interest, and help to hold the class together
until the end of the course.

Great encouragement will be given to the members of the class if public recognition is made
of their work from time to time. Brief words spoken in public commending the work which is
being done will often tide some faltering member over the crisis of hesitation. The denominational
Sunday-school leaders and officers of organized Sunday-school work frequently may be called
upon to lend encouragement by their helpful presence at some public function of the class.

The diploma issued by the denominations or by the International Sunday School Association is
a fitting recognition of work done, and gives the student a place in the enlarging fellowship
of trained teachers. Alumni Associations are being formed in the States with annual reunions.
Graduating exercises should be provided, and these should be impressive and dignified services
that will show to the church and community the emphasis the Sunday-school is placing on high
grade work.

The Sunday School Times Company does not offer any certificates or diplomas, nor does it conduct
any teacher-training classes. All this is carried on by the denominations, or through the agency
of the State Sunday School Associations.

THE BOOK

A. F. SCHAUFFLER, D.D.

                                                                PAGE
      The Bible                                                   11

  LESSON (OLD TESTAMENT)
   1. The Old Testament Division                                  14
   2. From Creation to Abraham                                    19
   3. From Abraham to Jacob                                       23
   4. Joseph                                                      28
   5. Moses                                                       33
   6. Joshua to Samson                                            39
   7. Saul to Solomon                                             44
   8. Rehoboam to Hoshea                                          49
   9. Abijam to Zedekiah                                          54
  10. Elijah                                                      59
  11. Return from Captivity                                       64

  (NEW TESTAMENT)
   1. New Testament Division                                      71
   2. The Life of Jesus--Thirty Years of Preparation              76
   3. The Year of Obscurity                                       82
   4. The Year of Popularity                                      88
   5. The Year of Opposition                                      94
   6. The Closing Week                                           100
   7. The Forty Days                                             106
   8. The Early Church                                           110
   9. Methods of Bible Study.#--Microscopic study of the Bible is the
study of smaller portions, such as single verses, or parts of
chapters. Many sermons adopt this method. It is good for many
purposes. But it fails to give the larger views of Bible history that
the teacher needs for effective work. The telescopic method takes in
large sections of the Word, and considers them in their relation to
the whole of revelation. This is the method that will be adopted in
these studies.

#2. To assist in the study# of a general survey of Bible history, we give as a memory outline
above a chart of the centuries between Adam and Christ. We use in this the chronology in our
Bibles, not because it is correct, but because scholars have not yet agreed on a better, especially
for the ages before Abraham.

All the names are well-known but that of Jared, and his is put in merely to mark the close
of the first half-millennium. Memorize these names so that you can reproduce the chart without
looking at the book. This exercise of memory will enable you to locate the chief events of
Bible history roughly in their appropriate chronological environment. Are you reading about
any event in the wanderings of Israel? Of course you are between the letters M. and S. Is it
a story of Elijah that you are studying? Then the event must lie between the letters S. and
Z. Or is it the biography of Nehemiah that forms your lesson? Then it must lie to the right
of the letter Z.

#3. One peculiarity of the Bible narrative# is that at times it is quite diffuse, and covers
much space on the sacred page, while at other times it is most highly condensed. For example,
the first twelve chapters of Genesis cover over 2000 years at the lowest computation. All the
rest of Genesis (thirty-eight chapters) covers the lives of four men, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
and Joseph. The first chapter of Exodus covers centuries while all the rest of Exodus, all
of Leviticus, all of Numbers and all of Deuteronomy cover only forty years. Surely there must
be some good reason for this. Again, two chapters in Matthew and two in Luke cover thirty years
of our Lord's life, while all the rest of the four Gospels cover only three and a half years.

#4. Another peculiarity# of the Word is that the miraculous element is very unevenly distributed.
At times miracles abound, and at other times they are but few in number. In the first eleven
chapters of Genesis, covering more than 2000 years, there are few miracles, outside of those
of the creation. But in the period after that, covered by the four great Patriarchs, we find
more miracles than before.

During the Mosaic period, beginning with Exodus 2, we find that miracles begin to multiply
as never before. For instance, God fed his people for forty years (except on the Sabbath) with
manna. Again, in the times of Elijah and Elisha, the narrative amplifies, and the miracles
multiply. And once more when we come to the Messianic period, as exemplified in the story of
Christ, the narrative becomes fourfold, and the miracles multiply as never before. What is
the reason for this amplification of narrative and simultaneous multiplication of the miraculous?
It is because these periods were exceptionally significant. In them God was trying to teach
men lessons of peculiar importance. So he led the writers to tell the story more in full, and
he himself emphasized the teaching by his own Divine interposition.

#5. In the Patriarchal period# God was calling out him who was to be the founder of that people
which was to preserve God's law through the ages, and from whom at last was to come Jesus,
the Redeemer of the world. This was a most important period, and one with which we might well
become acquainted.

#6. In the Mosaic period# God was bringing out his people from bondage and was giving to them
laws that were to shape their national life for all time. He was also giving to them a typology
in high priest, tabernacle, and sacrifice that was to lead them in the way of truth until,
in the fulness of the time, he was to come who was the fulfilment of both law and type, Jesus
of Nazareth, the Lamb of God, and the Son of God.

#7. In the period of Elijah# and his great pupil, Elisha, God was making a great effort to
call back to himself Israel, or the Northern Kingdom, which had been led into gross idolatry
by Jeroboam, and later by Ahab.

#8. In the Messianic period# God was fulfilling all that he had promised from the beginning
as to a Redeemer who was to come. He who had spoken to the fathers through the prophets, and
the various types, was now to speak to men through the person of his Son. Good reason then
why, at the four periods to which we have called attention, God should provide that the narrative
should be more full than at other times, and that simultaneously there should be the marked
intervention of the miraculous, to prove that God was truly speaking to men, and giving them
divine directions as to how to act, and what to believe.

#9. It follows, then,# that there are four periods to which we should pay especial attention,
as being of unusual importance, and these are the Patriarchal period, the Mosaic period, the
period of Elijah and Elisha, and the period of the Messiah. If the student be well posted as
to the occurrences during these periods, and their teaching, he will have at least a good working
outline of the whole of the Bible history in its most important developments. To emphasize
these periods we have added on the chart in the Memory Outline the dots that will be seen,
multiplying them at each period somewhat in proportion to the multiplication of the miraculous
element in the narrative.

Test Questions

What two ways are there of studying the Bible?

What advantage is there for our purposes in the second method?

Give the nine names that divide the Old Testament times into periods of five centuries each.

What chronological peculiarity do we find in the Bible narrative?

Give some examples of this. (Pick out other instances of this yourself.)

What peculiarity do we find in the distribution of the miracles?

Name the four periods in which the narrative amplifies and at the same time the miracles multiply.

Lesson 1

The Old Testament Division

PRINCIPAL EVENTS

    #Prelude.#--The story of creation (Gen. 1, 2). God was the
    author of all and no idolatry was to be permitted.

    #First Period.#--Adam, the first man; sinned and fell (Gen.
    3).

    #Second Period.#--Noah, the head of a family, saved in the
    ark from a devastating flood; a new beginning for the human
    race, followed by another failure (Gen. 6, 7, 8). The tower
    of Babel (Gen. 11:4). Confusion of tongues (Gen. 11:5-9).

    #Third Period.#--The chosen family, under Abraham, broadens
    to tribal life. The descent to Egypt (Gen. 46). Prosperity
    (Gen. 47:11), followed by oppression (Exod. 1:8-22). Moses
    the deliverer (Exod. 3:1-11). The march out of Egypt (Exod.
    12). Legislation at Mount Sinai (Exod. 20). Entry into Canaan
    (Josh. 1-4). Times of the Judges. (Judg. 1 to 21).

    #Fourth Period.#--Three kings in all Israel--Saul, David,
    Solomon (1 Sam. 10 to 1 Kings 12). The divided kingdom.

    #Fifth Period.#--The captivity (2 Kings 25). The return. Ezra
    and Nehemiah.

    #Leading Names.#--First and Second periods--Adam, Noah; Third
    period--Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, Samuel;
    Fourth period--Saul, David, Hezekiah, Josiah, Elijah, Elisha,
    Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos, Hosea; Fifth period--Zerubbabel,
    Ezra, Nehemiah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi.

#TIME.#--From an unknown time to about 400 B. C.

#LANDS.#--Armenia, Chaldea, Palestine, Egypt, Persia.

#SIGNIFICANCE OF EVENTS.#--The Old Testament begins with a statement of the creation; tells
of the introduction of man, "made in the image of God;" records the downfall of man and God's
many efforts to redeem him; recites the incidents of God's dealings with chosen individuals,
selected families and a particular nation; continues with this nation separated into two parts
and held captive by a foreign power, and closes with the return of a part of Judah. With the
entrance of sin came the promise of salvation through one who should come out of the chosen
(Jewish) nation.

The Old Testament Preview

    NOTE.--The Chronology used throughout is based on
    "The Dated Events of the Old Testament,"
    by Willis Judson Beecher.

#1. Two Great Divisions.#--In biblical history here are two great divisions, that of the Old
Testament and that of the New Testament. It is well to have clear outlines in our minds with
regard to the great outstanding characteristics of these periods. In making these divisions
into the periods that follow we have no "Thus saith the Lord" for our guidance, but use the
best common sense that we have. Others might make a different division, but we give that below
as at the least suggestive.

