Odo, for his part, had small taste for the sports in which Gianozzo and the village lads took
pleasure. He shrank from any amusement associated with the frightening or hurting of animals,
and his bosom swelled with the fine gentleman's scorn of the clowns who got their fun in so
coarse a way. Now and then he found a moment's glee in a sharp tussle with one of the younger
children who had been tormenting a frog or a beetle; but he was still too young for real fighting,
and could only hang on the outskirts when the bigger boys closed, and think how some day he
would be at them and break their lubberly heads. There were thus many hours when he turned
to the silent consolations of the chapel. So familiar had he grown with the images on its walls
that he had a name for every one: the King, the Knight, the Lady, the children with guinea-pigs,
basilisks and leopards, and lastly the Friend, as he called Saint Francis. An almond-faced
lady on a white palfrey with gold trappings represented his mother, whom he had seen too seldom
for any distinct image to interfere with the illusion; a knight in damascened armour and scarlet
cloak was the valiant captain, his father, who held a commission in the ducal army; and a proud
young man in diadem and ermine, attended by a retinue of pages, stood for his cousin, the reigning
Duke of Pianura.

A mist, as usual at that hour, was rising from the marshes between Pontesordo and Pianura,
and the light soon ebbed from the saint's face, leaving the chapel in obscurity. Odo had crept
there that afternoon with a keener sense than usual of the fact that life was hard on little
boys; and though he was cold and hungry and half afraid, the solitude in which he cowered seemed
more endurable than the noisy kitchen where, at that hour, the farm hands were gathering for
their polenta, and Filomena was screaming at the frightened orphan who carried the dishes to
the table. He knew, of course, that life at Pontesordo would not last for ever--that in time
he would grow up and be mysteriously transformed into a young gentleman with a sword and laced
coat, who would go to court and perhaps be an officer in the Duke's army or in that of some
neighbouring prince; but, viewed from the lowliness of his nine years, that dazzling prospect
was too remote to yield much solace for the cuffs and sneers, the ragged shoes and sour bread
of the present. The fog outside had thickened, and the face of Odo's friend was now discernible
only as a spot of pallor in the surrounding dimness. Even he seemed farther away than usual,
withdrawn into the fog as into that mist of indifference which lay all about Odo's hot and
eager spirit. The child sat down among the gourds and medlars on the muddy floor and hid his
face against his knees.

He had sat there a long time when the noise of wheels and the crack of a postillion's whip
roused the dogs chained in the stable. Odo's heart began to beat. What could the sounds mean?
It was as though the flood-tide of the unknown were rising about him and bursting open the
chapel door to pour in on his loneliness. It was, in fact, Filomena who opened the door, crying
out to him in an odd Easter Sunday voice, the voice she used when she had on her silk neckerchief
and gold chain or when she was talking to the bailiff.

Odo sprang up and hid his face in her lap. She seemed, of a sudden, nearer to him than any
one else--a last barrier between himself and the mystery that awaited him outside.

"Come, you poor sparrow," she said, dragging him across the threshold of the chapel, "the abate
is here asking for you;" and she crossed herself, as though she had named a saint.

Odo pulled away from her with a last wistful glance at Saint Francis, who looked back at him
in an ecstasy of commiseration.

"Come, come," Filomena repeated, dropping to her ordinary key as she felt the resistance of
the little boy's hand. "Have you no heart, you wicked child? But, to be sure, the poor innocent
doesn't know! Come cavaliere, your illustrious mother waits."

"My mother?" The blood rushed to his face; and she had called him "cavaliere"!

"Not here, my poor lamb! The abate is here; don't you see the lights of the carriage? There,
there, go to him. I haven't told him, your reverence; it's my silly tender-heartedness that
won't let me. He's always been like one of my own creatures to me--" and she confounded Odo
by bursting into tears.

The abate stood on the doorstep. He was a tall stout man with a hooked nose and lace ruffles.
His nostrils were stained with snuff and he took a pinch from a tortoise-shell box set with
the miniature of a lady; then he looked down at Odo and shrugged his shoulders.

Odo was growing sick with apprehension. It was two days before the appointed time for his weekly
instruction and he had not prepared his catechism. He had not even thought of it--and the abate
could use the cane. Odo stood silent and envied girls, who are not disgraced by crying. The
tears were in his throat, but he had fixed principles about crying. It was his opinion that
a little boy who was a cavaliere might weep when he was angry or sorry, but never when he was
afraid; so he held his head high and put his hand to his side, as though to rest it on his sword.

The abate sneezed and tapped his snuff-box.

"Come, come, cavaliere, you must be brave--you must be a man; you have duties, you have responsibilities.
It's your duty to console your mother--the poor lady is plunged in despair. Eh? What's that?
You haven't told him? Cavaliere, your illustrious father is no more."

Odo stared a moment without understanding; then his grief burst from him in a great sob, and
he hid himself against Filomena's apron, weeping for the father in damascened armour and scarlet
cloak.

"Come, come," said the abate impatiently. "Is supper laid? for we must be gone as soon as the
mist rises." He took the little boy by the hand. "Would it not distract your mind to recite
the catechism?" he inquired.

"No, no!" cried Odo with redoubled sobs.

"Well, then, as you will. What a madman!" he exclaimed to Filomena. "I warrant it hasn't seen
its father three times in its life. Come in, cavaliere; come to supper."

Filomena had laid a table in the stone chamber known as the bailiff's parlour, and thither
the abate dragged his charge and set him down before the coarse tablecloth covered with earthen
platters. A tallow dip threw its flare on the abate's big aquiline face as he sat opposite
Odo, gulping the hastily prepared frittura and the thick purple wine in its wicker flask. Odo
could eat nothing. The tears still ran down his cheeks and his whole soul was possessed by
the longing to steal back and see whether the figure of the knight in the scarlet cloak had
vanished from the chapel wall. The abate sat in silence, gobbling his food like the old black
pig in the yard. When he had finished he stood up, exclaiming: "Death comes to us all, as the
hawk said to the chicken. You must be a man, cavaliere." Then he stepped into the kitchen,
and called out for the horses to be put to.

The farm hands had slunk away to one of the outhouses, and Filomena and Jacopone stood bowing
and curtseying as the carriage drew up at the kitchen door. In a corner of the big vaulted
room the little foundling was washing the dishes, heaping the scraps in a bowl for herself
and the fowls. Odo ran back and touched her arm. She gave a start and looked at him with frightened
eyes. He had nothing to give her, but he said: "Good-bye, Momola"; and he thought to himself
that when he was grown up and had a sword he would surely come back and bring her a pair of
shoes and a panettone. The abate was calling him, and the next moment he found himself lifted
into the carriage, amid the blessings and lamentations of his foster-parents; and with a great
baying of dogs and clacking of whipcord the horses clattered out of the farmyard, and turned
their heads toward Pianura.

The mist had rolled back and fields and vineyards lay bare to the winter moon. The way was
lonely, for it skirted the marsh, where no one lived; and only here and there the tall black
shadow of a crucifix ate into the whiteness of the road. Shreds of vapour still hung about
the hollows, but beyond these fold on fold of translucent hills melted into a sky dewy with
stars. Odo cowered in his corner, staring out awestruck at the unrolling of the strange white
landscape. He had seldom been out at night, and never in a carriage; and there was something
terrifying to him in this flight through the silent moon-washed fields, where no oxen moved
in the furrows, no peasants pruned the mulberries, and not a goat's bell tinkled among the
oaks. He felt himself alone in a ghostly world from which even the animals had vanished, and
at last he averted his eyes from the dreadful scene and sat watching the abate, who had fixed
a reading-lamp at his back, and whose hooked-nosed shadow, as the springs jolted him up and
down, danced overhead like the huge Pulcinella at the fair of Pontesordo.

1.2.

The gleam of a lantern woke Odo. The horses had stopped at the gates of Pianura, and the abate
giving the pass-word, the carriage rolled under the gatehouse and continued its way over the
loud cobble-stones of the ducal streets. These streets were so dark, being lit but by some
lantern projecting here and there from the angle of a wall, or by the flare of an oil-lamp
under a shrine, that Odo, leaning eagerly out, could only now and then catch a sculptured palace-window,
the grinning mask on the keystone of an archway, or the gleaming yellowish facade of a church
inlaid with marbles. Once or twice an uncurtained window showed a group of men drinking about
a wineshop table, or an artisan bending over his work by the light of a tallow dip; but for
the most part doors and windows were barred and the streets disturbed only by the watchman's
cry or by a flash of light and noise as a sedan chair passed with its escort of linkmen and
servants. All this was amazing enough to the sleepy eyes of the little boy so unexpectedly
translated from the solitude of Pontesordo; but when the carriage turned under another arch
and drew up before the doorway of a great building ablaze with lights, the pressure of accumulated
emotions made him fling his arms about his preceptor's neck.

"Courage, cavaliere, courage! You have duties, you have responsibilities," the abate admonished
him; and Odo, choking back his fright, suffered himself to be lifted out by one of the lacqueys
grouped about the door. The abate, who carried a much lower crest than at Pontesordo, and seemed
far more anxious to please the servants than they to oblige him, led the way up a shining marble
staircase where beggars whined on the landings and powdered footmen in the ducal livery were
running to and fro with trays of refreshments. Odo, who knew that his mother lived in the Duke's
palace, had vaguely imagined that his father's death must have plunged its huge precincts into
silence and mourning; but as he followed the abate up successive flights of stairs and down
long corridors full of shadow he heard a sound of dance music below and caught the flash of
girandoles through the antechamber doors. The thought that his father's death had made no difference
to any one in the palace was to the child so much more astonishing than any of the other impressions
crowding his brain, that these were scarcely felt, and he passed as in a dream through rooms
where servants were quarrelling over cards and waiting-women rummaged in wardrobes full of
perfumed finery, to a bedchamber in which a lady dressed in weeds sat disconsolately at supper.

"Mamma! Mamma!" he cried, springing forward in a passion of tears.

The lady, who was young, pale and handsome, pushed back her chair with a warning hand.

"Child," she exclaimed, "your shoes are covered with mud; and, good heavens, how you smell
of the stable! Abate, is it thus you teach your pupil to approach me?"

"Madam, I am abashed by the cavaliere's temerity. But in truth I believe excessive grief has
clouded his wits--'tis inconceivable how he mourns his father!"

Donna Laura's eyebrows rose in a faint smile. "May he never have worse to grieve for!" said
she in French; then, extending her scented hand to the little boy, she added solemnly: "My
son, we have suffered an irreparable loss."

Odo, abashed by her rebuke and the abate's apology, had drawn his heels together in a rustic
version of the low bow with which the children of that day were taught to approach their parents.

"Holy Virgin!" said his mother with a laugh, "I perceive they have no dancing-master at Pontesordo.
Cavaliere, you may kiss my hand. So--that's better; we shall make a gentleman of you yet. But
what makes your face so wet? Ah, crying, to be sure. Mother of God! as for crying, there's
enough to cry about." She put the child aside and turned to the preceptor. "The Duke refuses
to pay," she said with a shrug of despair.

"Good heavens!" lamented the abate, raising his hands. "And Don Lelio?" he faltered.

She shrugged again, impatiently. "As great a gambler as my husband. They're all alike, abate:
six times since last Easter has the bill been sent to me for that trifle of a turquoise buckle
he made such a to-do about giving me." She rose and began to pace the room in disorder. "I'm
a ruined woman," she cried, "and it's a disgrace for the Duke to refuse me."

The abate raised an admonishing finger. "Excellency...excellency..."

She glanced over her shoulder.

"Eh? You're right. Everything is heard here. But who's to pay for my mourning the saints alone
know! I sent an express this morning to my father, but you know my brothers bleed him like
leeches. I could have got this easily enough from the Duke a year ago--it's his marriage has
made him so stiff. That little white-faced fool--she hates me because Lelio won't look at her,
and she thinks it's my fault. As if I cared whom he looks at! Sometimes I think he has money
put away...all I want is two hundred ducats...a woman of my rank!" She turned suddenly on Odo,
who stood, very small and frightened, in the corner to which she had pushed him. "What are
you staring at, child? Eh! the monkey is dropping with sleep. Look at his eyes, abate! Here,
Vanna, Tonina, to bed with him; he may sleep with you in my dressing-closet, Tonina. Go with
her, child, go; but for God's sake wake him if he snores. I'm too ill to have my rest disturbed."
And she lifted a pomander to her nostrils.

The next few days dwelt in Odo's memory as a blur of strange sights and sounds. The super-acute
state of his perceptions was succeeded after a night's sleep by the natural passivity with
which children accept the improbable, so that he passed from one novel impression to another
as easily and with the same exhilaration as if he had been listening to a fairy tale. Solitude
and neglect had no surprises for him, and it seemed natural enough that his mother and her
maids should be too busy to remember his presence.

For the first day or two he sat unnoticed on his little stool in a corner of his mother's room,
while packing-chests were dragged in, wardrobes emptied, mantua-makers and milliners consulted,
and troublesome creditors dismissed with abuse, or even blows, by the servants lounging in
the ante-chamber. Donna Laura continued to show the liveliest symptoms of concern, but the
child perceived her distress to be but indirectly connected with the loss she had suffered,
and he had seen enough of poverty at the farm to guess that the need of money was somehow at
the bottom of her troubles. How any one could be in want, who slept between damask curtains
and lived on sweet cakes and chocolate, it exceeded his fancy to conceive; yet there were times
when his mother's voice had the same frightened angry sound as Filomena's on the days when
the bailiff went over the accounts at Pontesordo.

Her excellency's rooms, during these days, were always crowded, for besides the dressmakers
and other merchants there was the hairdresser, or French Monsu--a loud, important figure, with
a bag full of cosmetics and curling-irons--the abate, always running in and out with messages
and letters, and taking no more notice of Odo than if he had never seen him, and a succession
of ladies brimming with condolences, and each followed by a servant who swelled the noisy crowd
of card-playing lacqueys in the ante-chamber.

Through all these figures came and went another, to Odo the most noticeable,--that of a handsome
young man with a high manner, dressed always in black, but with an excess of lace ruffles and
jewels, a clouded amber head to his cane, and red heels to his shoes. This young gentleman,
whose age could not have been more than twenty, and who had the coldest insolent air, was treated
with profound respect by all but Donna Laura, who was for ever quarrelling with him when he
was present, yet could not support his absence without lamentations and alarm. The abate appeared
to act as messenger between the two, and when he came to say that the Count rode with the court,
or was engaged to sup with the Prime Minister, or had business on his father's estate in the
country, the lady would openly yield to her distress, crying out that she knew well enough
what his excuses meant: that she was the most cruelly outraged of women, and that he treated
her no better than a husband.

For two days Odo languished in his corner, whisked by the women's skirts, smothered under the
hoops and falbalas which the dressmakers unpacked from their cases, fed at irregular hours,
and faring on the whole no better than at Pontesordo. The third morning, Vanna, who seemed
the most good-natured of the women, cried out on his pale looks when she brought him his cup
of chocolate. "I declare," she exclaimed, "the child has had no air since he came in from the
farm. What does your excellency say? Shall the hunchback take him for a walk in the gardens?"

To this her excellency, who sat at her toilet under the hair-dresser's hands, irritably replied
that she had not slept all night and was in no state to be tormented about such trifles, but
that the child might go where he pleased.

Odo, who was very weary of his corner, sprang up readily enough when Vanna, at this, beckoned
him to the inner ante-chamber. Here, where persons of a certain condition waited (the outer
being given over to servants and tradesmen), they found a lean humpbacked boy, shabbily dressed
in darned stockings and a faded coat, but with an extraordinary keen pale face that at once
attracted and frightened the child.

"There, go with him; he won't eat you," said Vanna, giving him a push as she hurried away;
and Odo, trembling a little, laid his hand in the boy's. "Where do you come from?" he faltered,
looking up into his companion's face.

The boy laughed and the blood rose to his high cheekbones. "I?--From the Innocenti, if your
Excellency knows where that is," said he.

Odo's face lit up. "Of course I do," he cried, reassured. "I know a girl who comes from there--the
Momola at Pontesordo."

"Ah, indeed?" said the boy with a queer look. "Well, she's my sister, then. Give her my compliments
when you see her, cavaliere. Oh, we're a large family, we are!"

Odo's perplexity was returning. "Are you really Momola's brother?" he asked.

"Eh, in a way--we're children of the same house."

"But you live in the palace, don't you?" Odo persisted, his curiosity surmounting his fear.
"Are you a servant of my mother's?"

"I'm the servant of your illustrious mother's servants; the abatino of the waiting-women. I
write their love-letters, do you see, cavaliere, I carry their rubbish to the pawnbroker's
when their sweethearts have bled them of their savings; I clean the birdcages and feed the
monkeys, and do the steward's accounts when he's drunk, and sleep on a bench in the portico
and steal my food from the pantry...and my father very likely goes in velvet and carries a
sword at his side."

The boy's voice had grown shrill, and his eyes blazed like an owl's in the dark. Odo would
have given the world to be back in his corner, but he was ashamed to betray his lack of heart;
and to give himself courage he asked haughtily: "And what is your name, boy?"

The hunchback gave him a gleaming look. "Call me Brutus," he cried, "for Brutus killed a tyrant."
He gave Odo's hand a pull. "Come along," said he, "and I'll show you his statue in the garden--Brutus's
statue in a prince's garden, mind you!" And as the little boy trotted at his side down the
long corridors he kept repeating under his breath in a kind of angry sing-song, "For Brutus
killed a tyrant."

The sense of strangeness inspired by his odd companion soon gave way in Odo's mind to emotions
of delight and wonder. He was, even at that age, unusually sensitive to external impressions,
and when the hunchback, after descending many stairs and winding through endless back-passages,
at length led him out on a terrace above the gardens, the beauty of the sight swelled his little
heart to bursting.

A Duke of Pianura had, some hundred years earlier, caused a great wing to be added to his palace
by the eminent architect Carlo Borromini, and this accomplished designer had at the same time
replanted and enlarged the ducal gardens. To Odo, who had never seen plantations more artful
than the vineyards and mulberry orchards about Pontesordo, these perspectives of clipped beech
and yew, these knots of box filled in with multi-coloured sand, appeared, with the fountains,
colonnades and trellised arbours surmounted by globes of glass, to represent the very pattern
and Paradise of gardens. It seemed indeed too beautiful to be real, and he trembled, as he
sometimes did at the music of the Easter mass, when the hunchback, laughing at his amazement,
led him down the terrace steps.

It was Odo's lot in after years to walk the alleys of many a splendid garden, and to pace,
often wearily enough, the paths along which he was now led; but never after did he renew the
first enchanted impression of mystery and brightness that remained with him as the most vivid
emotion of his childhood.

Though it was February the season was so soft that the orange and lemon trees had been put
out in their earthen vases before the lemon-house, and the beds in the parterres were full
of violets, daffodils and auriculas; but the scent of the orange-blossoms and the bright colours
of the flowers moved Odo less than the noble ordonnance of the pleached alleys, each terminated
by a statue or a marble seat; and when he came to the grotto where, amid rearing sea-horses
and Tritons, a cascade poured from the grove above, his wonder passed into such delicious awe
as hung him speechless on the hunchback's hand.

"Eh," said the latter with a sneer, "it's a finer garden than we have at our family palace.
Do you know what's planted there?" he asked, turning suddenly on the little boy. "Dead bodies,
cavaliere! Rows and rows of them; the bodies of my brothers and sisters, the Innocents who
die like flies every year of the cholera and the measles and the putrid fever." He saw the
terror in Odo's face and added in a gentler tone: "Eh, don't cry, cavaliere; they sleep better
in those beds than in any others they're like to lie on. Come, come, and I'll show your excellency
the aviaries."

From the aviaries they passed to the Chinese pavilion, where the Duke supped on summer evenings,
and thence to the bowling-alley, the fish-stew and the fruit-garden. At every step some fresh
surprise arrested Odo; but the terrible vision of that other garden planted with the dead bodies
of the Innocents robbed the spectacle of its brightness, dulled the plumage of the birds behind
their gilt wires and cast a deeper shade over the beech-grove, where figures of goat-faced
men lurked balefully in the twilight. Odo was glad when they left the blackness of this grove
for the open walks, where gardeners were working and he had the reassurance of the sky. The
hunchback, who seemed sorry that he had frightened him, told him many curious stories about
the marble images that adorned the walks; and pausing suddenly before one of a naked man with
a knife in his hand, cried out in a frenzy: "This is my namesake, Brutus!" But when Odo would
have asked if the naked man was a kinsman, the boy hurried him on, saying only: "You'll read
of him some day in Plutarch."

1.3.

Odo, next morning, under the hunchback's guidance, continued his exploration of the palace.
His mother seemed glad to be rid of him, and Vanna packing him off early, with the warning
that he was not to fall into the fishponds or get himself trampled by the horses, he guessed,
with a thrill, that he had leave to visit the stables. Here in fact the two boys were soon
making their way among the crowd of grooms and strappers in the yard, seeing the Duke's carriage-horses
groomed, and the Duchess's cream-coloured hackney saddled for her ride in the chase; and at
length, after much lingering and gazing, going on to the harness-rooms and coach-house. The
state-carriages, with their carved and gilt wheels, their panels gay with flushed divinities
and their stupendous velvet hammer-cloths edged with bullion, held Odo spellbound. He had a
born taste for splendour, and the thought that he might one day sit in one of these glittering
vehicles puffed his breast with pride and made him address the hunchback with sudden condescension.
"When I'm a man I shall ride in these carriages," he said; whereat the other laughed and returned
good-humouredly: "Eh, that's not so much to boast of, cavaliere; I shall ride in a carriage
one of these days myself." Odo stared, not over-pleased, and the boy added: "When I'm carried
to the churchyard, I mean," with a chuckle of relish at the joke.

From the stables they passed to the riding-school, with its open galleries supported on twisted
columns, where the duke's gentlemen managed their horses and took their exercise in bad weather.
Several rode there that morning; and among them, on a fine Arab, Odo recognised the young man
in black velvet who was so often in Donna Laura's apartments.

"Who's that?" he whispered, pulling the hunchback's sleeve, as the gentleman, just below them,
made his horse execute a brilliant balotade.

"That? Bless the innocent! Why, the Count Lelio Trescorre, your illustrious mother's cavaliere
servente."

Odo was puzzled, but some instinct of reserve withheld him from further questions. The hunchback,
however, had no such scruples. "They do say, though," he went on, "that her Highness has her
eye on him, and in that case I'll wager your illustrious mamma has no more chance than a sparrow
against a hawk."

The boy's words were incomprehensible, but the vague sense that some danger might be threatening
his mother's friend made Odo whisper: "What would her Highness do to him?"

"Make him a prime-minister, cavaliere," the hunchback laughed.

