It is difficult to ascertain the whole number of boats employed at any one time. Many were
owned and run by the proprietors of the canal; and many were constructed and run by private
parties who paid the regular tolls for whatever merchandise they transported. Boats belonging
to the same parties were conspicuously numbered, like railway cars to-day. From "Regulations
relative to the Navigation of the Middlesex Canal," a pamphlet published in 1830, it appears
that boats were required to be not less than 40 ft. nor more than 75 ft. in length and not
less than 9 ft. nor more than 9-1/2 ft. in width. Two men, a driver and steersman, usually
made up the working force; the boats, however, that went up the Merrimac required three men,
one to steer, and two to pole. The Lowell boats carried 20 tons of coal; 15 tons were sufficient
freight for Concord; when the water in the Merrimac was low, not more than 6 or 7 tons could
be taken up the river. About 1830 the boatmen received $15 per month.

Lumber was transported in rafts of about 75 ft. long and 9 ft. wide; and these rafts, not exceeding
ten in number, were often united in "bands." A band of seven to ten rafts required the services
of five men, including the driver. Boats were drawn by horses, and lumber by oxen; and "luggage
boats" were required to make two and a half miles an hour, while "passage boats" attained a
speed of four miles. Boats of the same class, and going the same way, were not allowed to pass
each other, thus making "racing" impossible on the staid waters of the old canal. Whenever
a boat approached a lock, the conductor sounded his horn to secure the prompt attention of
the lock-tender; but due regard was paid to the religious sentiment of New England. Travelling
in the canal being permitted on Sundays, "in consideration of the distance from home at which
those persons using it generally are, it may be reasonably expected that they should not disturb
those places of public worship near which they pass, nor occasion any noise to interrupt the
tranquillity of the day. Therefore, it is established that no Signal-Horn shall be used or
blown on Sundays."

The tariff varied greatly from year to year. In 1827 the rate from Lowell to Boston was $2.00
the gross ton; but many articles were carried on much lower terms.

On account of liability of damage to the banks of the canal, all navigation ceased at dark;
hence, at every lock, or series of locks, a tavern was established. These were all owned by
the corporation, and were often let to the lock-tender, who eked out his income by the accommodation
of boatmen and horses. The Bunker Hill Tavern, in Charlestown, situated so as to accommodate
both county and canal travel, was leased, in 1830, for $350; in 1838, it let for $500. The
Horn Pond House, at Woburn, in 1838, was leased for $700. In 1825, a two-story dwelling-house,
36 X 18, built at a cost of $1,400, for the accommodation of boatmen and raftsmen, at Charlestown,
rented, with stable attached, for $140. In all these cases, the real estate was supposed to
pay ten per cent.

Some of these canal-taverns established a wide reputation for good cheer, and boatmen contrived
to be overtaken by night in their vicinity. Sometimes fifteen or twenty boats would be detained
at one of these favorite resorts, and a jolly crowd fraternized in the primitive bar-room.
The temperance sentiment had not yet taken a firm hold in New England. "Flip" was the high-toned
beverage of those days; but "black-strap," a compound of rum and molasses, sold at three cents
a glass, was the particular "vanity" of the boatmen. In the smaller taverns, a barrel of old
Medford, surmounted by a pitcher of molasses, scorning the flimsy subterfuges of modern times,
boldly invited its patrons to draw and mix at their own sweet will. "Plenty of drunkenness,
Uncle Joe, in those days?" we queried of an ancient boatman who was dilating upon the good
old times. "Bless your heart, no!" was the answer. "Mr. Eddy didn't put up with no drunkards
on the canal. They could drink all night, sir, and be steady as an eight-day clock in the morning."

When the feverish haste born of the locomotive and telegraph had not yet infected society,
a trip over the canal in the passenger-packet, the "Governor Sullivan," must have been an enjoyable
experience. Protected by iron rules from the dangers of collision; undaunted by squalls of
wind, realizing, should the craft be capsized, that he had nothing to do but walk ashore, the
traveller, speeding along at the leisurely pace of four miles per hour, had ample time for
observation and reflection. Seated, in summer, under a capacious awning, he traversed the valley
of the Mystic skirting the picturesque shores of Mystic pond. Instead of a foreground of blurred
landscape, vanishing, ghostlike, ere its features could be fairly distinguished, soft bits
of characteristic New England scenery, clear cut as cameos, lingered caressingly on his vision;
green meadows, fields riotous with blossomed clover, fragrant orchards, and quaint old farmhouses,
with a background of low hills wooded to their summits.

Passing under bridges, over rivers, between high embankments, and through deep cuttings, floated
up hill by a series of locks, he marvelled at this triumph of engineering, and, if he were
a director, pictured the manufactories that were to spring up along this great thoroughfare,
swelling its revenues for all time.

The tow-path of the canal was a famous promenade. Upon Sunday afternoons, especially, numerous
pedestrians from the dusty city strolled along the canal for a breath of fresh air and a glimpse
of the open country, through the Royal estate in Medford, past the substantial old-fashioned
mansion-house of Peter C. Brooks, as far, perhaps, as the Baldwin estate, and the birthplace
of Count Rumford, in Woburn. "I love that old tow-path," said Uncle Joe. "'Twas there I courted
my wife; and every time the boat went by she came tripping out to walk a piece with me! Bless
you, sir the horses knew her step, and it wan't so heavy, nuther."

Meanwhile, under the direction of Caleb Eddy, who assumed the agency of the corporation in
1825, bringing great business ability and unquenchable zeal to his task, the perishable wooden
locks were gradually replaced with stone, a new stone dam was built at Billerica, and the service
brought to a high state of efficiency. The new dam was the occasion of a lawsuit brought by
the proprietors of the Sudbury meadows, claiming damages to the extent of $10,000 for flooding
their meadows. The defendants secured the services of Samuel Hoar, Esq., of Concord, assisted
by the Hon. Daniel Webster, who accepted a retaining fee of $100 to "manage and argue the case
in conjunction with Mr. Hoar. The cause was to have been tried November, 1833. Mr. Webster
was called on by me and promised to examine the evidence and hold himself in readiness for
the trial, but for some time before he was not to be found in Boston, at one time at New York,
at another in Philadelphia, and so on from place to place so that I am satisfied no dependance
can be placed with certainty upon his assistance, and," plaintively concludes the agent, "our
$100 has gone to profit and loss account."

On the other side was the Hon. Jeremiah Mason, assisted by Franklin Dexter, Esq. This case
was decided the following year adversely to the plaintiffs.

With the accession of business brought by the corporations at Lowell, the prospect for increased
dividends in the future was extremely encouraging. The golden age of the canal appeared close
at hand; but the fond hopes of the proprietors were once more destined to disappointment. Even
the genius of James Sullivan had not foreseen the railway locomotive. In 1829 a petition was
presented to the Legislature for the survey of a railroad from Boston to Lowell. The interests
of the canal were seriously involved. A committee was promptly chosen to draw up for presentation
to the General Court "a remonstrance of the Proprietors of Middlesex Canal, against the grant
of a charter to build a railroad from Boston to Lowell." This remonstrance, signed by William
Sullivan, Joseph Coolidge, and George Hallett, bears date of Boston, Feb. 12, 1830, and conclusively
shows how little the business men of fifty years ago anticipated the enormous development of
our resources consequent upon the application of steam to transportation:--

     The remonstrants take pleasure in declaring, that they join in the
     common sentiment of surprise and commendation, that any
     intelligence and enterprise should have raised so rapidly and so
     permanently, such establishments as are seen at Lowell. The
     proprietors of these works have availed themselves of the canal,
     for their transportation for all articles, except in the winter
     months ... and every effort has been made by this corporation to
     afford every facility, it was hoped and believed, to the entire
     satisfaction of the Lowell proprietors. The average annual amount
     of tolls paid by these proprietors has been only about four
     thousand dollars. It is believed no safer or cheaper mode of
     conveyance can ever be established, nor any so well adapted for
     carrying heavy and bulky articles. To establish therefore a
     substitute for the canal alongside of it, and in many places
     within a few rods of it, and to do that which the canal was made to
     do, seems to be a measure not called for by any exigency, nor one
     which the Legislature can permit, without implicitly declaring that
     all investments of money in public enterprises must be subjected to
     the will of any applicants who think that they may benefit
     themselves without regard to older enterprises, which have a claim
     to protection from public authority. With regard, then, to
     transportation of tonnage goods, the means exist for all but the
     winter months, as effectually as any that can be provided.

     There is a supposed source of revenue to a railroad, from
     carrying passengers. As to this, the remonstrants venture no
     opinion, except to say, that passengers are now carried, at all
     hours, as rapidly and safely as they are anywhere else in the
     world.... To this, the remonstrants would add, that the use of a
     railroad, for passengers only, has been tested by experience,
     nowhere, hitherto; and that it remains to be known, whether this is
     a mode which will command general confidence and approbation, and
     that, therefore, no facts are now before the public, which furnish
     the conclusion, that the grant of a railroad is a public exigency
     even for such a purpose. The Remonstrants would also add, that so
     far as they know and believe, "there never can be a sufficient
     inducement to extend a railroad from Lowell westwardly and
     northwestwardly, to the Connecticut, so as to make it the great
     avenue to and from the interior, but that its termination must be
     at Lowell" (italics our own), "and, consequently that it is to be
     a substitute for the modes of transportation now in use between
     that place and Boston, and cannot deserve patronage from the
     supposition that it is to be more extensively useful...."

     The Remonstrants, therefore, respectfully submit: First, that there
     be no such exigency as will warrant the granting of the prayer for
     a railroad to and from Lowell.

     Secondly, that, if that prayer be granted, provision should be made
     as a condition for granting it, that the Remonstrants shall be
     indemnified for the losses which will be thereby occasioned to
     them.

This may seem the wilful blindness of self-interest; but the utterances of the press and the
legislative debates of the period are similar in tone. In relation to another railroad, the
"Boston Transcript" of Sept. 1, 1830, remarks: "It is not astonishing that so much reluctance
exists against plunging into doubtful speculations.... The public itself is divided as to the
practicability of the Rail Road. If they expect the assistance of capitalists, they must stand
ready to guarantee the percentum per annum; without this, all hopes of Rail Roads are visionary
and chimerical." In a report of legislative proceedings published in the "Boston Courier,"
of Jan. 25, 1830, Mr. Cogswell, of Ipswich, remarked: "Railways, Mr. Speaker, may do well enough
in old countries, but will never be the thing for so young a country as this. When you can
make the rivers run back, it will be time enough to make a railway." Notwithstanding the pathetic
remonstrances and strange vaticinations of the canal proprietors, the Legislature incorporated
the road and refused compensation to the canal. Even while the railroad was in process of construction,
the canal directors do not seem to have realized the full gravity of the situation. They continued
the policy of replacing wood with stone, and made every effort to perfect the service in all
its details; as late as 1836 the agent recommended improvements. The amount of tonnage continued
to increase--the very sleepers used in the construction of the railway were boated, it is said,
to points convenient for the workmen.

In 1832 the canal declared a dividend of $22 per share; from 1834 to 1837, inclusive, a yearly
dividend of $30.

The disastrous competition of the Lowell Railroad was now beginning to be felt. In 1835 the
Lowell goods conveyed by canal paid tonnage dues of $11,975.51; in 1836 the income from this
source had dwindled to $6,195.77. The canal dividends had been kept up to their highest mark
by the sale of its townships in Maine and other real estate: but now they began to drop. The
year the Lowell road went into full operation the receipts of the canal were reduced one-third;
and when the Nashua & Lowell road went into full operation, in 1840, they were reduced another
third. The board of directors waged a plucky warfare with the railroads, reducing the tariff
on all articles, and almost abolishing it on some, till the expenditures of the canal outran
its income; but steam came out triumphant. Even sanguine Caleb Eddy became satisfied that longer
competition was vain, and set himself to the difficult task of saving fragments from the inevitable
wreck.

At this time (1843) Boston numbered about 100,000 inhabitants, and was dependent for water
upon cisterns and wells. The supply of water in the wells had been steadily diminishing for
years, and what remained was necessarily subject to contamination from numberless sources.
"One specimen which I analyzed," said Dr. Jackson, "which gave three per cent, of animal and
vegetable putrescent matter, was publicly sold as a mineral water; it was believed that water
having such a remarkable fetid odor and nauseous taste, could be no other than that of a sulphur
spring; but its medicinal powers vanished with the discovery that the spring arose from a neighboring
drain." Here was a golden opportunity. Eddy proposed to abandon the canal as a means of transportation,
and convert it into an aqueduct for supplying the City of Boston with wholesome water. The
sections between the Merrimac and Concord at one extremity, and Charlestown mill-pond and Woburn
at the other, were to be wholly discontinued. Flowing along the open channel of the canal from
the Concord river to Horn-pond locks in Woburn, from thence it was to be conducted in iron
pipes to a reservoir upon Mount Benedict in Charlestown, a hill eighty feet above the sea-level.

The good quality of the Concord-river water was vouched for by the "analysis of four able and
practical chemists, Dr. Charles T. Jackson, of Boston; John W. Webster, of Cambridge University;
S.L. Dana, of Lowell, and A.A. Hayes, Esq., of the chemical works at Roxbury." The various
legal questions involved were submitted to the Hon. Jeremiah Mason, who gave an opinion, dated
Dec. 21, 1842, favorable to the project. The form for an act of incorporation was drawn up;
and a pamphlet was published, in 1843, by Caleb Eddy, entitled an "Historical sketch of the
Middlesex Canal, with remarks for the consideration of the Proprietors," setting forth the
new scheme in glowing colors.

But despite the feasibility of the plan proposed, and the energy with which it was pushed,
the agitation came to naught; and Eddy, despairing of the future, resigned his position as
agent in 1845. Among the directors during these later years were Ebenezer Chadwick, Wm. Appleton,
Wm. Sturgis, Charles F. Adams, A.A. Lawrence, and Abbott Lawrence; but no business ability
could long avert the catastrophe. Stock fell to $150, and finally the canal was discontinued,
according to Amory's Life of Sullivan, in 1846. It would seem, however, that a revival of business
was deemed within the range of possibilities, for in conveyances made in 1852 the company reserved
the right to use the land "for canalling purposes"; and the directors annually went through
with the form of electing an agent and collector as late as 1853.

"Its vocation gone, and valueless for any other service," says Amory, "the canal property was
sold for $130,000. After the final dividends, little more than the original assessments had
been returned to the stockholders." Oct. 3, 1859, the Supreme Court issued a decree, declaring
that the proprietors had "forfeited all their franchises and privileges, by reason of non-feasance,
non-user, misfeasance and neglect." Thus was the corporation forever extinguished.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TAVERNS OF BOSTON IN YE OLDEN TIME.

BY DAVID M. BALFOUR.

The first tavern in Boston was kept by Samuel Coles. It was opened in March, 1633, and stood
near the south-west corner of Merchants row and Corn court, with an area in front on Merchants
row and also on Fanueil Hall square, which in latter days have been covered with buildings.
It was destroyed by fire during the early part of the eighteenth century, and the older portion
of the present edifice was erected in 1737, which has been enlarged on the northerly side.
It was towards the close of the last century known as the "Brazier Inn," and was kept by a
widow lady of that name. It is now known as the "Hancock House," and is kept by a stalwart
Scotchman named Alexander Clarkson. Gov. Vane held a council in the south-westerly room in
the second story with Miantonomoh, the Narragansett chief. The same room was subsequently occupied
by Lafayette in 1773, and afterwards by Talleyrand in 1798.

The State Arms Tavern was built in 1645, and stood on the south-east corner of State and Exchange
streets. It was occupied as the custom-house just before the Revolution.

The Star Inn was built in 1645, and stood on the north-east corner of Hanover and Union streets.
It was first kept by Thomas Hawkins, and afterwards by Andrew Neal, a Scotchman. The Scots'
Charitable Society, of which the landlord was a member, frequently held its meetings there.

The Roebuck Tavern was built in 1650. It stood on the east side of Merchants row, between Clinton
and North streets. It was believed to have been built by a descendant of Richard Whittington,
the Lord Mayor of London in 1419, who was famed for his love of cats.

The Ship Tavern was built in 1651, and stood on North street, just beyond the corner of Fleet
street. John Vyall kept it in 1663, and it was at one time called "Noah's Ark." The peace commissioners
sent over by Charles II. held their sessions there. It was demolished in 1866.

The King's Arms Tavern was built in 1654, and stood on the southeast corner of Washington and
Brattle streets, opposite the Samuel Adams statue.

The Red Lion Tavern stood on the north-west corner of North and Richmond streets. It was built
in 1654, and kept by Nicholas Upsall, a Quaker, who was persecuted, imprisoned, and banished
for his faith. Near this spot the devastating fire of November 27, 1676, broke out in one Wakefield's
house.

The Blue Anchor Tavern stood on the site of No. 254 Washington street. It was built in 1664,
and kept by George Monck.

The Blue Anchor Tavern (the second of that name) was built in 1665, and stood on Brattle street,
upon the site which was afterwards Doolittle's City Tavern. It was first kept by Robert Turner,
and was noted for its punch, and was a favorite resort of public men.

The Blue Bell Tavern was built in 1673, and stood on the north-west corner of Batterymarch
street and Liberty square; a portion of the Mason building now occupies its site. It was kept
by Nathaniel Bishop, and afterwards by Alleric & Drury. In 1692 it was called the Castle Tavern,
and ceased to be an inn after 1707.

The Castle Tavern (the second of that name) stood on the south-west corner of Dock square and
Elm street. It was erected by William Hudson in 1674, and kept by John Wing in 1687, who gave
his name to the street. In 1694 it was called the George Tavern.

The King's Head Tavern was built in 1680, and stood at the northeast corner of North and Fleet
streets. It was burnt in 1691, and afterwards rebuilt. It was kept by James Davenport in 1755.

The Seven Star Inn stood, in 1684, on the south-west corner of Summer and Hawley streets. It
gave its name to the lane which was afterwards called Bishop's alley. Here, in 1736, was erected
of wood the first edifice of Trinity Church. The land, which originally contained 15,000 square
feet, was bought of John Gibbins and William Speakman for £450. This edifice was demolished
in 1828 and a stone structure erected in 1830, which was burnt in the great fire, November
8, 1872. The site, after having its proportions curtailed, in order to widen Summer and Hawley
streets, containing 7,126 square feet, was sold to William D. Peckman, in 1874, for $194,402.

The Sun Tavern stood on the southwest corner of Dock and Faneuil Hall squares. It was built
in 1690, and was kept by Samuel Mears in 1724, and by Day in 1753. It was conveyed by Thomas
Valentine in 1741 for £2,475 ($8,250); and by Joseph Jackson in 1794 for £1,333-6-8 ($4,444);
and by E.P. Arnold in 1865 for $20,000. The Scots' Charitable Society frequently held its meetings
there. It was the head-quarters of the British officers during the siege. It is the oldest
building in Boston.

The Queen's Head Tavern stood at the north-west corner of North and Clark streets. It was built
in 1691.

The Green Dragon Inn was built in 1692. It was first kept by Alexander Smith, who died in 1696,
and was succeeded by Hannah Bishop, who was next succeeded by John Cary. In 1734 Joseph Kidder
was its landlord. In 1764 it was conveyed by Catharine Kerr, sister to Dr. William Douglas,
to St. Andrew's Lodge of Freemasons. It was a hospital during the Revolution. It was the head-quarters
of Joseph Warren, John Hancock, Samuel Adams, James Otis, Paul Revere, and other patriots,
during the Revolution. It was called the Green Dragon Tavern after the Revolution, and at one
time the Freemasons' Arms. Daniel Simpson, the veteran drummer, was at one time its landlord.
The Scots' Charitable Society frequently held its meetings there. The Green Dragon building,
extending through from Union to (new) Washington street, now denotes its site.

The Salutation Inn stood on the north-west corner of Hanover and Salutation streets. It was
built by John Brooking in 1692, and sold to Sir William Phips. John Scollay kept it in 1697,
who was succeeded by Samuel Green in 1731. It became famous, later, when William Campbell kept
it in 1773, when it was a rallying-place for the patriots who gave rise to the word "Caucus."
The resolutions for the destruction of the tea in Boston Harbor were drawn up there. It was
also called the "Two Palaverers," from the representation upon the sign of two old gentlemen
in wigs, cocked hats, and knee-breeches, saluting each other with much ceremony.

The Golden Bull Tavern was built in 1693, and stood on the south-east corner of Merchants row
and Chatham street. It was kept in 1752 by Marston.

The Black Horse Tavern was built in 1700, and stood on the west side of Prince street, which
in former days was called Black Horse lane, and Salem street. It was noted as a hiding-place
for deserters from Burgoyne's army when stationed at Cambridge.

The Half Moon Inn was built in 1705, and stood on the north-west corner of Fleet and Sun court
streets. It was kept in 1752 by Deborah Chick.

The Swan Tavern was built in 1707, and stood at the north-east corner of Fleet and North streets.

The Orange Tree Inn was built in 1708, and stood on the north-east corner of Court and Hanover
streets during the Provincial period. White it was kept by Jonathan Wardwell, in 1712, he set
up the first hackney-coach stand. His widow kept it in 1724. It was demolished in 1785. It
was noted for having a well of water which never froze or dried up.

The Bull Tavern was built in 1713, and stood on the south-west corner of Summer and Federal
streets. It was there that sundry inhabitants at the South End met and formed the project to
erect a church on Church green, which was called the "New South," and presided over for a long
series of years by Rev. Alexander Young, D.D.

The Light House Tavern was built in 1717, and stood on the south side of King (State) street,
on the north-west corner of Devonshire street, opposite the Town House (Old State House). It
is not impossible that it may have been standing there in 1742. There was also another tavern
of the same name at the North End in 1763, from which the "Portsmouth Flying Stage" started
every Saturday morning. It carried six passengers inside; fare 13s. 6d. sterling ($3.25); to
Newburyport, 9s. ($2.17). Returning, left Portsmouth on Tuesday.

The Marlboro' Hotel was built in 1708, and took its name from the street In front, and was
the first public house in Boston dignified with the name of "Hotel." John C. Calhoun lodged
there, while Secretary of War, upon his only visit to Boston, in 1818. McNiel Seymour was its
landlord in 1820. He afterwards became landlord of the Atlantic Hotel, opposite the Bowling
Green in New York. It had a stable in the rear which accommodated the Providence line of stages.
The site of the stable was afterwards occupied by the Lowell Institute building. Agassiz, Lyell,
Tyndall, Price, and other scientists, delivered lectures there. Its walls have also resounded
with the eloquence of John Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster, Edward Everett, Rufus Choate, Charles
Sumner, Bayard Taylor, William Lloyd Garrison, James T. Fields, and other famous men. Lafayette
was given a banquet at the Marlboro' upon his visit to Boston, in 1824. The Scots' Charitable
Society frequently held its meetings there. About a generation ago it changed its name to the
Marlboro' House, and it was conducted on temperance principles. Hon. Henry Wilson, Vice-President
of the United States, made it his stopping-place while in the city. The elegant Hemenway building
now occupies its site.

The Cross Tavern was erected in 1709, and stood on the north-west corner of North and Cross
streets.

The Crown Coffee House stood on the south-west corner of State street and Chatham row, and
was built in 1710 by Gov. Belcher; and Mrs. Anna Swords was its first landlord, and she was
succeeded in 1751 by Robert Shelcock. The Scots' Charitable Society frequently held its meetings
there.

The Bunch of Grapes Tavern was built in 1713, and stood on the north-west corner of State and
Kilby streets. Its first landlord was Francis Holmes, who was succeeded in 1731 by William
Coffin, by Joshua Barker in 1749, and by Col. Joseph Ingersoll in 1764. It was noted as being
the best "punch-house" in Boston. Lafayette was a guest there in 1774. In front of it, on the
4th of August, 1806, Charles Austin was killed by Thomas O. Selfridge in self-defence. The
Scots' Charitable Society frequently held its meetings there.

The George Tavern was built in 1720, and stood on the north-west corner of Washington and Northampton
streets. It afforded shelter for the patriots in annoying the British during the siege. Its
extensive orchard and gardens comprised seventeen acres, and extended south to Roxbury street,
and west to Charles river, which, until the modern Back Bay improvement, extended to the west
side of Tremont street. The General Court, as well as some of the law courts, sat there prior
to 1730. The American post was located there in 1775, which was burnt by the British at night
in July of that year.

The Royal Exchange Tavern was built in 1726, and stood on the south-west corner of State and
Exchange streets, the site of the Merchants' Bank building. It gave its name to the street
on its easterly side. Luke Vardy was its first landlord, who was succeeded in 1747 by Robert
Stone. It was in this building, in 1728, that the altercation began which ended in the first
duel fought in Boston, when Benjamin Woodbridge was killed by Henry Phillips. The Scots' Charitable
Society frequently held its meetings there.

The Old Mansion House was built in 1732, and stood on the south side of Milk street, between
Hawley and Arch streets, on the site of the Bowdoin building. It stood a little back from the
street, with large American elms in front, and was a stopping place for old stage lines. Hon.
Robert C. Winthrop was born there, and Hon. Henry Dearborn occupied it at the time of his decease.

The Blue Anchor Tavern (the third of that name) was built in 1735, and stood on the north-east
corner of Water and Batterymarch streets. It was kept by Joseph Wilson.

The British Coffee House was built in 1741, and stood on the site of No. 66 State street, afterwards
occupied by the Massachusetts Bank. It was kept, in 1762, by Ballard, and was largely patronized
by British officers. The repeal of the Stamp Act was celebrated there in 1767. The eloquent
James Otis was assaulted in it by a British gang, and an injury was inflicted upon his head,
which rendered him insane for a long time. The Scots' Charitable Society frequently held its
meetings there. Its name was changed to American Coffee House in 1776. Lieut.-Col. GEORGE WASHINGTON
lodged there in 1756, while upon a visit to Gov. Shirley, to consult with him upon business
connected with the French war. It was first kept by Anthony Brackett.

The Admiral Vernon Tavern was built in 1743, and stood on the south-east corner of State street
and Merchants row, and was first kept by Richard Smith. The Scots' Charitable Society frequently
held its meetings there.

The Sun Tavern (the second of that name) was built in 1757, and stood on the east side of Washington
street, nearly opposite Cornhill, and was first kept by James Day, and was a popular resort
of the Sons of Liberty.

