In the year 1792, when it was carried by the revolutionary forces of France, they took the
direction of the city walls as their line of attack, and mounted the bastion which bears Paciotto's
name; this, at that time of day, formed indisputably the most advantageous point of assault;
but its increased strength in this quarter would, at the present moment, render any attack
an act of temerity. An esplanade of the average width of four hundred paces, which was laid
out as a handsome promenade, before the bombardment in 1830, separates the citadel from the
town: but the effect of that bombardment has been to throw a wide area of fifteen hundred paces
open to the very marge of the Scheldt; and to disconnect the fortress still more completely
from the inhabited portion of Antwerp. Lamentable as may be the prospect, Antwerp, the mistress
of the finest naval station and commercial port in Europe, is doomed to destruction, if a single
gun be directed against its citadel. It is not possible for its commandant, as a soldier and
a subject, to avoid any and every means of annoying a besieger; and amongst these, none so
ready and effectual, present themselves, as that of preventing the town from becoming the covert
for an assailant. We have witnessed the deplorable havoc which a few mortars brought upon it
in 1830; but how frightful will be the issue when rockets and red-hot shot come to be poured
upon the devoted city. Nay, more,--by opening the dykes along the Scheldt, a large portion
of the western provinces of Belgium is capable of being inundated; and if this fresh calamity
ensue, as a second resource on the part of the besieged, from the adoption of which the recognised
laws of warfare cannot absolve them, not only Antwerp will have ceased to exist, but her citadel
will rear its head, a frowning islet, amidst a waste of waters. As to the blockade of the Scheldt,
it will be impotent with regard to distressing the citadel; for the windings of that stream,
as well as of the Maas, at their mouths, preclude the possibility of effectually staying the
Dutch from communication with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAINT OF CERTAIN CORAL BEADS.

  Spoiler of forbidden wealth,
    Guarded by the hoary waves!
  When we mourn thy cruel stealth,
    Sorrowing for our quiet caves.
  Doth it calm our wistful pining
  That the chains we hate are shining?
    Boast we beauty's gauds to be?
  Can the state such bondage shares,
  Thoughtless liking, loveless cares,
  Sudden angers, wilful airs,
    Sooth us like the mighty sea?

  Though, in hours when suitors press
    Near the shrine of star-bright eyes,
  Mysteries, some would die to guess,
    Our familiar touch descries;
  When a startled throb or tremble,
  Woman's craft would fain dissemble,
    Through our light embraces swells;--
  Fruitless secrets--vainly taught,--
  Bliss unheeded--trust unsought--
  Can they quench the constant thought
    Of our dreamy ocean-cells?

  Though the glowing bands we form,
    Oft by redder lips be pressed,
  And a slumber, soft and warm,
    Fold us on a dove-like breast,--
  Not to love, but love's bestowing
  Gentle care and kiss are owing:--
    Is the passion changed or cloyed,
  Doth the giver's light grow less?
  Banished from the sweet recess,
  Sportive pressure, fond caress,
    See our mimic worth destroyed!

  Then in close and narrow keep,
    Pent, with scorned and faded toys,
  Mourn we for the glassy deep,
    Sigh we for our early joys!
  What has earth like ocean's treasures?
  More than craving avarice measures,
    More than Fancy's dream enchants,
  Deck the booming caves below,
  Where green waters ever flow
  Under groves of pearl, that grow
    In the mermaid's glimmering haunts.

  Under spar-enchased bowers,
    Bending on their twisted stems,
  Glow the myriad ocean-flowers,
    Fadeless--rich as orient gems.
  Hung with seaweed's tasselled fringes,
  Dyed with all the rainbow's tinges,
    Rise the Triton's palace walls.
  Pallid silver's wandering veins
  Stream, like frostwork, o'er the stains;
  Pavements thick, with golden grains,
    Twinkle through their crystal halls.

  And a music wild and low
    Ever, o'er the curved shells,
  Wanders with a fitful flow
    As the billow sinks or swells.
  Now, to faintest whispers hushing,
  Now, in louder cadence gushing,
    Wakens from their pleasant sleep
  All the tuneful Nereid-throng,
  Till their notes of wreathed song
  Float in magic streams along,
    Chanting joyaunce through the deep.

  Chance or change,--the clouds of time--
    Sorrow,--winter storm, or blight,
  Comes not near our peaceful clime;
    Nor the strife of day with night.
  Death, who walks the earth in riot,
  Stirs not our primeval quiet:
    Scarce his distant rage we know
  From the dreary things of clay,
  Slain, alas! in ocean's play,
  Whom the sea-maids shroud and lay
    In the silent caves below.

  Fond! to deem we count it pride
    Thus to deck the fair of earth!
  We, whose beauty-peopled tide
    Gave the foam-born goddess birth!
  Her, whose glory's radiant fulness.
  All too bright for mortal dulness,
    Sparkles in a lovelier star!
  Are not Ocean's shady places
  Rich in kindred forms and faces,
  Choral bands of sister-Graces
    Circling Amphitrite's car?

  Toiling o'er the shallow page,
    Vainly pedants seek the lore
  Taught us by that prophet sage,
    Whom our azure Thetis bore.
  Wiser Eld his solemn numbers,
  Listening, stole from Ocean's slumbers,
    Signs of coming doom to learn.
  Poor were all your labours reap,
  To the gifted seers that keep
  Mysteries of the ancient deep,
    Drawn from Nereus' sacred urn.

  Let us find our old retreat,
    Yield us to the kissing wave,
  From the daylight's parching heat
    In its cool profound to lave.
  If ye needs must rob for beauty,
  Earth's abysses teem with booty.
    Gems, that love the blaze of day:--
  We are tired of glittering shows,
    And the strife of man's display;
  Let us sink to sweet repose
  Where the lulling water flows;
    Give us to our native bay!

Tait's Edinburgh Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHELLEY.

[We find the clever and curious sketches of Shelley, in the New Monthly Magazine, concluded
with the following interesting anecdote.]

That Shelley gave freely, when the needy scholar asked, or in silent, hopeless poverty seemed
to ask, his aid, will he demonstrated most clearly by relating shortly one example of his generosity,
where the applicant had no pretensions to literary renown, and no claim whatever, except perhaps
honest penury. It is delightful to attempt to delineate from various points of view a creature
of infinite moral beauty,--but one instance must suffice; an ample volume might be composed
of such tales, but one may be selected, because it contains a large admixture of that ingredient
which is essential to the conversion of alms-giving into the genuine virtue of charity--self-denial.
On returning to town after the long vacation, at the end of October, I found Shelley at one
of the hotels in Covent Garden. Having some business in hand he was passing a few days there
alone. We had taken some mutton chops hastily at a dark place in one of the minute courts of
the city, at an early hour, and we went forth to walk; for to walk at all times, and especially
in the evening, was his supreme delight. The aspect of the fields to the north of Somers-Town,
between that beggarly suburb and Kentish-Town, has been totally changed of late. Although this
district could never be accounted pretty, nor deserving a high place even amongst suburban
scenes, yet the air, or often the wind, seemed pure and fresh to captives emerging from the
smoke of London; there were certain old elms, much very green grass, quiet cattle feeding,
and groups of noisy children playing with something of the freedom of the village green. There
was, oh, blessed thing! an entire absence of carriages and of blood-horses; of the dust and
dress and affectation and fashion of the parks: there were, moreover, old and quaint edifices
and objects which gave character to the scene. Whenever Shelley was imprisoned in London,--for
to a poet a close and crowded city must be a dreary gaol,--his steps would take that direction,
unless his residence was too remote, or he was accompanied by one who chose to guide his walk.
On this occasion I was led thither, as indeed I had anticipated: the weather was fine, but
the autumn was already advanced; we had not sauntered long in these fields when the dusky evening
closed in, and the darkness gradually thickened. "How black those trees are," said Shelley,
stopping short, and pointing to a row of elms; "it is so dark the trees might well be houses,
and the turf, pavement,--the eye would sustain no loss; it is useless therefore to remain here,
let us return." He proposed tea at his hotel, I assented; and hastily buttoning his coat, he
seized my arm, and set off at his great pace, striding with bent knees over the fields and
through the narrow streets. We were crossing the New Road, when he said shortly, "I must call
for a moment, but it will not be out of the way at all," and then dragged me suddenly towards
the left. I inquired whither we were bound, and, I believe, I suggested the postponement of
the intended call till the morrow. He answered, it was not at all out of our way. I was hurried
along rapidly towards the left; we soon fell into an animated discussion respecting the nature
of the virtue of the Romans, which in some measure beguiled the weary way. Whilst he was talking
with much vehemence and a total disregard of the people who thronged the streets, he suddenly
wheeled about and pushed me through a narrow door; to my infinite surprise I found myself in
a pawnbroker's shop! It was in the neighbourhood of Newgate Street; for he had no idea whatever
in practice either of time or space, nor did he in any degree regard method in the conduct
of business. There were several women in the shop in brown and grey cloaks with squalling children:
some of them were attempting to persuade the children to be quiet, or at least, to scream with
moderation; the others were enlarging upon and pointing out the beauties of certain coarse
and dirty sheets that lay before them to a man on the other side of the counter. I bore this
substitute for our proposed tea some minutes with tolerable patience, but as the call did not
promise to terminate speedily, I said to Shelley, in a whisper, "Is not this almost as bad
as the Roman virtue?" Upon this he approached the pawnbroker: it was long before he could obtain
a hearing, and he did not find civility. The man was unwilling to part with a valuable pledge
so soon, or perhaps he hoped to retain it eventually; or it might be, that the obliquity of
his nature disqualified him for respectful behaviour. A pawnbroker is frequently an important
witness in criminal proceedings: it has happened to me, therefore, afterwards to see many specimens
of this kind of banker; they sometimes appeared not less respectable than other tradesmen,
and sometimes I have been forcibly reminded of the first I ever met with, by an equally ill
conditioned fellow. I was so little pleased with the introduction, that I stood aloof in the
shop, and did not hear what passed between him and Shelley. On our way to Covent-Garden, I
expressed my surprise and dissatisfaction at our strange visit, and I learned that when he
came to London before, in the course of the summer, some old man had related to him a tale
of distress,--of a calamity which could only be alleviated by the timely application of ten
pounds; five of them he drew at once from his pocket, and to raise the other five he had pawned
his beautiful solar microscope! He related this act of beneficence simply and briefly, as if
it were a matter of course, and such indeed it was to him. I was ashamed of my impatience,
and we strode along in silence.

It was past ten when we reached the hotel; some excellent tea and a liberal supply of hot muffins
in the coffee-room, now quiet and solitary, were the more grateful after the wearisome delay
and vast deviation. Shelley often turned his head, and cast eager glances towards the door;
and whenever the waiter replenished our teapot, or approached our box, he was interrogated
whether any one had yet called. At last the desired summons was brought: Shelley drew forth
some bank notes, hurried to the bar, and returned as hastily, bearing in triumph under his
arm a mahogany box, followed by the officious waiter, with whose assistance he placed it upon
the bench by his side. He viewed it often with evident satisfaction, and sometimes patted it
affectionately in the course of calm conversation. The solar microscope was always a favourite
plaything or instrument of scientific inquiry; whenever he entered a house his first care was
to choose some window of a southern aspect, and, if permission could be obtained by prayer
or by purchase, strightway to cut a hole through the shutter to receive it. His regard for
his solar microscope was as lasting as it was strong; for he retained it several years after
this adventure, and long after he had parted with all the rest of his philosophical apparatus.

Such is the story of the microscope, and no rightly judging person who hears it will require
the further accumulation of proofs of a benevolent heart; nor can I, perhaps, better close
these sketches than with that impression of the pure and genial beauty of Shelley's nature
which this simple anecdote will bequeath.

[In parting with this very ingenious series of papers, we beg to concur in the well-expressed
wish of the Editor of the New Monthly Magazine, "that their author could be tempted to give
the world a complete history of one whose peculiar and subtle nature he so well comprehends."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW SPECIES OF BAT.--(VESPERTILIO AUDUBONI.)

(By Richard Harlan, M.D.)

Of the numerous creatures which attract our admiration, or excite our fears, the greater part
display their appetites, or develope their instincts, during the day time only; especially--with
few exceptions--all those remarkable for beauty of plumage, and vocal melody. Predacious animals
are chiefly distinguished for their nocturnal habits; and ideas of rapine, terror and blood,
are ever associated with the tiger, the hyena, and the wolf. Among the feathered tribes, the
owl and the bat, also companions of darkness, are shunned by many, as horrible objects, and
full of ill-omen. Haunted castles, ruined battlements, and noisome caverns, are the chosen
abodes of these noctural maurauders, and it is to such associations that these animals are
indebted for the unamiable character they have obtained. The prejudices conceived against that
portion of these animals, with which we are familiar, are founded entirely upon these their
habits; for small quadrupeds, reptiles and fish, constitute the food of the first, whilst insects
and fruit suffice for the other. It is at the close of the day, when the hum of nature is beginning
to subside, that the patient bat steals from his dark retreat, and spreads his leathery wings
in search of his food.

The new species of this little flying quadruped, which we are now about to notice, belongs
to a very large and respectable family. In the days of Linnaeus, they all--from their appearance
at twilight--went by the family name of Vespertilio. They further belong to the order Carnivora,
their teeth being constructed for masticating flesh; though some--and in this they resemble
ourselves--are also fond of fruit. In one important point, the whole race has a common character,
in their organ of flight. The bones of the fingers are extremely elongated, and united by a
membrane, which is continued down the side of the body; and extending on the leg as far as
the tarsus, also unites the legs and tail. Agreeing so universally in this particular, they
form a very natural family, under the appropriate term. Cheiroptera, constructed from two Greek
words, signifying hand and wing.

The vespertilio are again divided into GENERA and Species,--divisions which are grounded on
certain peculiarities of dental structure, and various developements of the brachial, digital,
and interfemoral appendages, with other modifications of the organs of progression. These genera
include species which are discovered in every habitable part of the globe, of various magnitudes,
from the size of a half grown cat, to that of a half grown mouse.

Of this numerous family only three genera, of modern authors, inhabit the United States, viz.
RHINOPOMA, VESPERTILIO, and TAPHOZOUS. Seven species, exclusive of the present, are all that
have been hitherto discovered in North America.

We propose to dedicate this new species, to our valuable friend the justly celebrated naturalist
J.J. AUDUBON, as a small tribute of respect to his eminent talents, and the highly important
services he has rendered science. The drawing which accompanies this paper, is from his inimitable
pencil.

This species was first observed, during the summer of 1829, when an individual female flew
into the apartment of the late Dr. Hammersly, then one of the resident physicians of the Pennsylvania
hospital: on the subsequent evening a male individual, of the same species, was also taken
in the same manner. In August 1830, a very fine specimen was brought to the Academy of Natural
Sciences, and Mr. Audubon informs me that the species has very recently been observed in New York.

The natural characters of the species are--General colour black, sprinkled with gray above
and beneath; ears black and naked; auriculum, short and broad or obtusely triangular; interfemoral
membrane, sparsely hairy; last joint of the tail free: two incisors, with notched crowns, on
each side of the canine teeth of the upper jaw, with a broad intervening space without teeth.

The dimensions are.--Total length 3 inches 7 tenths; tail 1.7; length of ear 0.5. breadth of
ear 0.4; length of leg 1.7; spread of wings 10.7. inhabit Pennsylvania and New York, and probably
the southern states.--Cab. of Acad. Nat. Sc. Philad. (Abridged from Featherstonhaugh's Monthly
American Journal of Geology and Natural Science.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOSAIC PAVEMENT.

The chief object of curiosity at Palestrina, (ancient Praeneste,) is the castle or palace of
the prince, in the highest part of the city, to which there is an ascent by an excellent coach-road
to the right, by the Capucin Convent, without entering the narrow street. Before it is a level
space of considerable length; which formed the highest platform of the Temple of Fortune. Two
flights of steps lead to an amphitheatre, or semicular staircase, in excellent preservation,
which is the same that led to the sanctuary of the temple, on the foundation of which the palace
is built: in the middle of the semicircle is a well; each step is about a foot and a half high,
like the ancient steps of the capitol which led to the church of Ara Coeli, at Rome. Another
short flight conducts to the hall of entrance, where there is a double staircase, and a recess
closed by iron grates, which contains the celebrated antique pavement, of which Pliny speaks
in the following terms, "The fine mosaic of small stones, placed by Sylla as a pavement in
the Temple of Fortune at Praeneste, was the first thing of the kind seen in Italy." There does
not seem to be the smallest room to doubt of this being the genuine mosaic he mentions; it
is in excellent preservation, and appears to be about twenty feet by sixteen. It was found
in the same cellar of the seminary, where is still the altar of Fortune, and may be considered
as one of the most interesting relics of antiquity. Towards the upper part of it are mountains,
with negro savages hunting wild beasts; animals of different sorts, with their names in Greek
written below them, such as the rhinoceros, crocodile, and lynx. Lower down are seen houses
of various forms, temples, vessels of different constructions, particularly a galley of 32
oars, manned with armed blacks, and commanded by a white man; a tent with soldiers, a palm
tree, flowers, a collation in an arbour, an altar of Anubis; in short, almost every circumstance
imaginable in life. The scene apparently lies in Egypt. The figures are well drawn, the light
and shadows happily disposed, and the colouring harmonious. The stones which compose this very
curious pavement are remarkably small which renders the effect peculiarly pleasing, from the
neatness of its appearance.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

PANORAMA OF STIRLING.

Stirling, or Strivelin, and its storied environs have furnished Mr. Burford with a new Panorama,
of more than usual interest in its details. The town is fraught with historical association,
and the surrounding country is of picturesque and poetical character. A Scottish poet describes
its attractions in these enthusiastic lines:

  O! grander far than Windsor's brow!
  And sweeter to the vale below!
  Whar Forth's unrivalled windings flow
              Through varied grain,
  Brightening, I ween wi' glittering glow,
              Strevlina's plain!
  There, raptured trace, (enthroned on hie)
  The landscape stretching on the ee,
  Frae Grampian hills down to the sea--
              A dazzling view--
  Corn, meadow, mansion, water, tree,
              In varying hue.
  There, seated, mark, wi' ardour keen,
  The Skellock bright 'mang corn sae green,
  The purple pea, and speckled bean,
              A fragrant store--
  And vessels sailing, morn and een,
              To Stirling's shore.
  And Shaw park, gilt wi' e'ening's ray:
  And Embro castle, distant grey;
  Wi' Alva screened near Aichil brae,
              'Mang grove and bower!
  And rich Clackmannan rising gay
              Wi' woods and tower.

Hector Macneill.

Stirling is seated on the river Forth, upon a precipitous basaltic rock, about one hundred
feet from the level of the plain. Upon the rock stands the Castle, from the outer court of
which the present Panorama was sketched. The town, in external appearance, bears a miniature
resemblance to Edinburgh, being situate like the old town of that city, on the sloping ridge
of a rock, running from east to west, the precipitous end of which is occupied by the Castle.
But, of the town itself, little is seen in the Panorama. The view, as we have stated, is from
the Castle, and is generally allowed to be one of the finest in Scotland. Its scenery has many
sublime and picturesque features, and has moreover been the site of some of the most stirring
incidents in Scottish history; no less than twelve fields of battle, including three important
ones fought by the first and second Edwards, being distinctly visible. Beginning with the Castle,
we find, from its situation commanding the passes and fords between the north and south of
Scotland, it was in early times styled the Key, as Dumbarton was the Lock, to the Highlands.
Its first fortification is referred to the time of Agricola; the Picts had a strong fortress
here, which was totally destroyed in the ninth century by the Scots, under Kenneth II. Stirling
formed part of the ransom of his brother and successor, who had been taken prisoner by the
Northumbrians; they rebuilt the Castle, but subsequently restored the place to the Scots. In
the twelfth century, it was considered one of the strongest forts in Scotland. It was often
visited by the Scottish monarchs, but it did not become a royal residence until the accession
of the Stuarts. Here was born James II., and in an apartment now forming part of the deputy-governor's
lodging, this king perpetrated the murder of Earl Douglas. James III. made it his chief residence,
erected the parliament-house, and a richly-endowed chapel, since destroyed. James V. was crowned
here, and erected the palace. Mary was crowned here, as was James VI. when thirteenth months
old; he was educated here by the celebrated Buchanan. During the regency of Mary of Lorraine,
a strong battery was erected here; and in the reign of Queen Anne, the fortifications were
strengthened and enlarged. In 1806, the rocky ground in front was converted into an esplanade;
since which the towers have been repaired and castellated, it being one of the Scottish forts,
which, by the articles of the Union, are always to be kept in repair. It mounts about 36 guns;
but if regularly invested in modern warfare, it could not hold out many hours. To enumerate
its sieges, dismantlings, and repairs would occupy too much space. Among the most memorable
of its stormy annals, is its siege by Edward II. in 1301, for three months, when it was battered
with stones of two hundred pounds weight each, thrown by engines, in the formation of which
was used all the lead from the monastery of St. Andrew's. It was last besieged in 1746 by the
Highlanders under Prince Charles. The chief parts of the building seen in the Panorama are
the additions by Queen Anne, the parliament-house, (though not the unsightly, modern roof,)
and the palace, a stately and curious structure of hewn stone, and embellished with grotesque
sculpture. The latter building forms a quadrangle, the central court of which is called the
lion's den, from the king's lions being formerly kept there. The whole is now used as barracks.
From the Castle, looking over the town, towards the east, is a vast plain, nearly 40 miles
in extent, called the Carse of Stirling, through which the Firth in meandering, forms a number
of peninsulas, in places approximating so closely as to have an isthmus of only a few yards,
the effect of which in the picture, reminded us of the contrived intricacies of a child's puzzle;
in this direction is seen Alla, or Alloa, a thriving seaport town, with a Gothic church, and
celebrated for its excellent ale; Clackmannan, a miserable town, where in a tower lived King
Robert Bruce, and where an old Jacobite lady knighted Burns with a sword which belonged to
Bruce, observing that she had a better right to do so than some folk; Falkirk, known for its
trysts, or markets, where the country-people point out a battle-field, and a stream called
the Red Burn, from its running with blood on the day of the conflict; Bruce lived near this
spot, the view from which he said was not surpassed by any he had seen in his travels: next
lies the Firth of Forth, and the country as far as Edinburgh and the Pentland Hills. Towards
the south stands the ancient village of St. Ninian's, and Bannockburn, the battleground of
the most celebrated and important contest that ever took place between English and Scots; the
Torwood, where till lately stood a tree said to have sheltered Wallace; and the Carron, bounded
by the green hills of Campsie. Towards the west are the plains of Menteith, a district, says
Chambers, distinguished almost above all the rest of Scotland, for the singular series of beautiful
and romantic scenes which it presents to the view of the traveller, and bounded by the majestic
Grampians. On the north are the famous ruins of Cambuskenneth, and the precipitous Abbey Craig,
beyond which lies the richly-cultivated vale of Devon; the moor on which the battle of Dumblain
was fought; and Ochill Hills, clothed with blooming heath, and overtopped by the summits of
Perthshire. Such is the artist's outline of the prospect: our task shall be to select a few
of its most entertaining details.

To return to the Panoramic arrangement: next the castle is Gowlan Hill, the ordinary place
of execution in times of wicked bloodshed, and thus apostrophized by Douglas, in the Lady of
the Lake:

  And thou O sad and fatal mound!

The hill has, however, less terrible association; it being after called Hurly Hacket, from
James V. and his nobles there playing at that game, which consisted in sliding down the steep
banks on an inverted cutty stool. This was, at least, more rational than cutting off heads.
Next is Abbey Craig, a rock upon which Wallace defeated the English; Dollava, a village on
a gloomy rock, almost insulated by two streams, whose Celtic names signify the glens of care
and the burns of sorrow; Tillabody, the birthplace and property of Sir Ralph Abercrombie; the
crumbling walls and bell tower of Cambuskenneth Abbey, wherein several parliaments were held,
and at whose high altar the clergy and nobles swore fealty to Robert and David Bruce; Edinburgh,
with its castle, thirty-eight miles from Stirling, whence it is discernable in clear weather;
the Carron Iron-works; and the Carron, of more classic celebrity in Ossian, and the battles
of the Romans and the Scots and Picts; the dome-shaped hill of Tinto, in Lanarkshire, 60 miles
from Stirling, and 2,336 feet in height; Arthur's Hill, a circular mound of earth, surrounded
by seats of turf in the royal gardens, sometimes called the king's knot, where the court held
fêtes, and where James used to amuse himself with the pastime called the Knights of the Round
Table; Ben Lomond, 3,240 feet above the lake, which is 32 feet above the level of the sea;
Ben Venue, and Ben Ledy, or the hill of God, in Perthshire, 3,009 feet in height, so called
from the inhabitants of the surrounding villages, in former times, meeting on its summit at
the summer solstice, three days and nights for the purpose of devotion. These three mountains,
with their vicinities are enshrined in Sir Walter Scott's Lady of the Lake; and the village
of Balquidder, at the foot of Ben Ledy, is the burial place of Rob Roy. We have just described
the circle: over the garden wall of the Castle, at a considerable distance, is the well-wooded
estate and mansion of Craig Forth, said to have once belonged to a blacksmith of Stirling:
this man having placed the iron bars (which still remain to the windows of the palace), and
done other work for James VI. when that monarch came to the throne of England, made a demand
of one thousand pounds Scots,--but by some error, the accounts being paid in Stirling money,
he with it purchased the estate and built the house of Craig Forth. Next, to the right is Blair
Drummond, formerly the residence of the accomplished Lord Kaimes; and beyond are the celebrated
ruins of Donne Castle; not the least interesting incident of its annals was the imprisonment
there in 1745, of John Home, (the author of Douglas,) who has left a narrative of his clambering
escape over the high walls.

