After all is said we must admit that the money situation was one that was exceedingly difficult
to handle. It was infinitely worse in Bolshevikdom. The doughboy who used to find pads of undetached
counterfeit Kerenskie on the dead Bolsheviks, can well believe that thirty dollars of good
American chink one day in the Soviet part of Russia bought an American newspaper man one million
paper roubles of the Lenine-Trotsky issue, and that before night, spending his money at the
famine prices in the worthless paper, he was a dead-broke millionaire.

During the time American soldiers were in Russia they were paid in checks drawn on London.
During the war, this was at the pegged rate ($4.76-1/4) which had been fixed by agreement between
London and New York bankers to prevent violent fluctuations. But at the end of the war, after
the Armistice, the peg was pulled and the natural course of the market sent the pound sterling
steadily downward, as the American dollar rose in value as compared with other currencies of
the world. To those who were dealing day by day this was all in the game of money exchange.
But to the soldier in far-off North Russia who had months of pay coming to him when he left
the forests of the Vaga and Onega this was a real financial hardship. Many a doughboy whose
wife or mother was in need at home because of the rapidly mounting prices put up by the slackers
in the shops and the slackers in the marts of trade, now saw his little pay check shrink up
in exchange value. He felt that his superior officers in the war department had hardly looked
after his interests as well as they might have done. Major Nichols did succeed at Brest in
getting the old pegged rate for the men and officers, but many had already parted with the
checks at heavy discount for fear that the nearer they got to the land for which they had been
fighting, the more discount there would be on the pay checks with which their Quartermaster
had paid them their pittances. Soldiers of the second detachment came on home with Colonel
Stewart to Camp Custer and were obliged (most of them) to take their little $3.82 per pound
sterling of the British pound sterling paid them by Quartermaster Major Ely in North Russia,
at $4.76-1/4. Later, through the efforts of the late Congressman Nichols, many of those soldiers
were reimbursed. Of course complete restitution would have been made by the war department
if all the soldiers had sent their claims in. Hundreds of American veterans of the North Russian
campaign lost ten to twenty per cent of their pay check's hard earned value.

XXIX

PROPAGANDA AND PROPAGANDA AND--

Propaganda Two-Edged Tool--From Crusaders To Carping Cynics--Be Warned-- Afraid To Tell The
Truth--Startling Stories Of Bolo Atrocities Published--Distortion Disgusts Brave Men--Wrong
To Play On Race Prejudices--Our Own Government Missed Main Chance--Doughboy Beset By Active
Enemy In Front And Plagued By Active Propaganda Of Hybrid Varieties--Sample Of Bolshevik Propaganda
Used On Americans--Yanks Punched Holes In Red Propaganda--Propaganda To Doughboy Connotes Lies
And Distortion And Concealment Of Truth.

"Over there, over there, the Yanks are coming," sang the soldiers in training camp as they
changed from recruits into fighting units of the 85th Division at Battle Creek. And the morale
of the 339th was evidenced, some thought, by the fervor with which the officers and men roared
out their hate chorus, "Keep your head down, you dirty Hun. If you want to see your father
in your Fatherland, Keep your head down, you dirty Hun." Maybe so, maybe not. Maybe morale
is made of finer stuff than hate and bombast. Maybe idealism does enter into it. Of course
there are reactionary periods in the history of a people when selfishness and narrowness and
bigotry combine to cry down the expression of its idealism. Not in 1918.

No secret was made of the fact that the Americans went into the war with a fervor born of an
aroused feeling of world-responsibility. We must do our part to save Christian civilization
from the mad nationalism of the German people led by their diabolic Hohenzollern reigning family
and war bureaucracy. Too much kultur would ruin the world. Germany must be whipped. We tingled
with anticipation of our entrance to the trenches beside the bled-white France. We were going
"Over There" in the spirit of crusaders.

What transformed a hesitating, reluctant, long-suffering people into crusaders? Propaganda.
Press work. Five-minute men. Open and secret work. It was necessary to uncover and oppose the
open and secret propaganda of paid agents of Germany, and woefully deluded German-Americans
who toiled freely to help Kaiser Bill, as though to disprove the wisdom of the statement that
no man can serve two masters. We beat their propaganda, uncovered the tracks of the Prussian
beast in our midst, found out, we thought, the meaning of explosions and fires and other terrible
accidents in our munition plants, and turned every community into vigilant searchers for evidences
of German propaganda or deviltry of a destructive kind and we persecuted many an innocent man.

And now we sadly suspect that in fighting fire with fire, that is in fighting propaganda with
propaganda, we descended by degrees to use the same despicable methods of distorting truth
for the sake of influencing people to a certain desired end. England and France and all other
countries had the same sad experience. Doubtless we could not very well avoid it. It is part
of the hell of war to think about it now. Propaganda, fair one, you often turn out to be a
dissipated hag, a camp follower.

Many years from now some calm historian going over the various Blue Books and White Books and
Red Books, with their stories of the atrocities of the enemy, ad nauseam, will come upon the
criminating Official Documents of various nations that sought to propagandize the world into
trembling, cowering belief in a new dragon. Bolshevism with wide-spread sable wings, thrashing
his spiny tail and snorting fire from his nostrils was volplaning upon the people of earth
with open red mouth and cruel fangs and horrid maw down which he would gulp all the political,
economic and religious liberties won from the centuries past. The dragon was about to devour
civilization.

And the historian will shake his head sadly and say, "Too bad they fell for all that propaganda.
Poor Germans. Poor Britishers. Poor Frenchmen. Poor Russians. Poor Americans. Too bad. What
a mess that propaganda was. Propaganda and propaganda and--well, there are three kinds of propaganda
just as there are three kinds of lies; lies and lies and d--- lies."

In this volume we are historically interested in the propaganda as it was presented and as
it affected us in the campaign fighting the Bolsheviki in North Russia in 1918-19. We write
this chapter with great hesitation and with consciousness that it is subject to error in investigation
and sifting of evidences and subject to error of bias on the part of the writer. However, no
attempt has been made to compel the parts of this volume to be consistent with one another.
Facts have been stated and comments have been written as they occurred to the writers. If they
were forced to be consistent with one another it would be using the method of the propagandizer.
We prefer to appear inconsistent and possibly illogical rather than to hold back or frame anything
to suit the general prejudices of the readers. Take this chapter then with fair warning.

Keenly disappointed we were to be told in England that we were not to join our American comrades
who were starting "Fritz" backward in Northern France. We were to go to Archangel for guard
duty. The expert propagandists in England were busy at once working upon the American soldiers
going to North Russia. The bare truth of the matter would not be sufficient. Oh no! All the
truth must not be told at once either. It's not done, you know. Certainly not. Soldiers and
the soldiers' government might ask questions. British War Office experts must hand out the
news to feed the troops. And they did.

Guard duty in Archangel, as we have seen, speedily became a fall offensive campaign under British
military command. And right from the jump off at the Bolshevik rearguard forces, British propaganda
began coming out. Does anyone recall a general order that came out from our American Commanding
officer of the Expedition? Is there a veteran of the American Expeditionary force in North
Russia who does not recall having read or hearing published the general orders of the British
G. H. Q. referring to the objects of the expedition and to the character of the enemy, the
Bolsheviki?

"The enemy. Bolsheviks. These are soldiers and sailors who, in the majority of cases are criminals,"
says General Poole's published order, "Their natural, vicious brutality enabled them to assume
leadership. The Bolshevik is now fighting desperately, firstly, because the restoration of
law and order means an end to his reign, and secondly, because he sees a rope round his neck
for his past misdeeds if he is caught. Germans. The Bolsheviks have no capacity for organization
but this is supplied by Germany and her lesser Allies. The Germans usually appear in Russian
uniform and are impossible to distinguish." Why was that last sentence added? Sure enough we
did not distinguish them, not enough to justify the propaganda.

Immediately upon arrival of the Americans in the Archangel area they had found the French soldiers
wildly aflame with the idea that a man captured by the Bolsheviks was bound to suffer torture
and mutilation. And one wicked day when the Reds were left in possession of the field the French
soldiers came back reporting that they had mercifully put their mortally wounded men, those
whom they could not carry away, out of danger of torture by the Red Guards by themselves ending
their ebbing lives. Charge that sad episode up to propaganda. To be sure, we know that there
were evidences in a few cases, of mutilation of our own American dead. But it was not one-tenth
as prevalent a practice by the Bolos as charged, and as they became more disciplined, their
warfare took on a character which will bear safe comparison with our own.

The writer remembers the sense of shame that seized him as he reluctantly read a general order
to his troops, a British piece of propaganda, that recited gruesome atrocities by the Bolsheviks,
a recital that was supposed to make the American soldiers both fear and hate the enemy. Brave
men do not need to be fed such stuff. Distortion of facts only disgusts the man when he finally
becomes undeceived.

"There seems to be among the troops a very indistinct idea of what we are fighting for here
in North Russia." This is the opening statement of another one of General Poole's pieces of
propaganda. "This can be explained in a very few words. We are up against Bolshevism, which
means anarchy pure and simple." Yet in another statement he said: "The Bolshevik government
is entirely in the hands of Germans who have backed this party against all others in Russia
owing to the simplicity of maintaining anarchy in a totally disorganized country. Therefore
we are opposed to the Bolshevik-cum-German party. In regard to other parties we express no
criticism and will accept them as we find them provided they are for Russia and therefore for
'out with the Boche.' Briefly we do not meddle in internal affairs. It must be realized that
we are not invaders but guests and that we have not any intention of attempting to occupy any
Russian territory."

That was not enough. Distortion must be added. "The power is in the hands of a few men, mostly
Jews" (an appeal to race hatred), "who have succeeded in bringing the country to such a state
that order is non-existent. The posts and railways do not run properly, every man who wants
something that some one else has got, just kills his opponent only to be killed himself when
the next man comes along. Human life is not safe, you can buy justice at so much for each object.
Prices of necessities have so risen that nothing is procurable. In fact the man with a gun
is cock of the walk provided he does not meet another man who is a better shot."

Was not that fine stuff? Of course there were elements of truth in it. It would not have been
propaganda unless it had some. But its falsities of statement became known later and the soldiers
bitterly resented the attempt to propagandize them.

The effect of this line of propaganda was at last made the subject of an informal protest by
Major J. Brooks Nichols, one of our most influential and level-headed American officers, in
a letter to General Ironside, whose sympathetic letter of reply did credit to his respect for
other brave men and credit to his judgment. He ordered that the propaganda should not be further
circulated among the American soldiers. It must be admitted that the French soldiers also suffered
revulsion of feeling when the facts became better known. The British War Office methods of
stimulating enthusiasm in the campaign against the Bolsheviki was a miserable failure. Distortion
and deception will fail in the end. You can't fool all the soldiers all the while. Truth will
always win in the end. The soldier has right to it. He fights for truth; he should have its help.

Our own military and government authorities missed the main chance to help the soldiers in
North Russia and gain their most loyal service in the expedition. Truth, not silence with its
suspected acquiescence with British propaganda and methods of dealing with Russians; truth
not rumors, truth, was needed; not vague promises, but truth.

In transmitting to us the Thanksgiving Day Proclamation, our American diplomatic representative
in North Russia, Mr. Dewitt Poole, published to the troops the following: "But so great a struggle
cannot end so abruptly. In the West the work of occupying German territory continues. In the
East German intrigue has delivered large portions of Russia into unfriendly and undemocratic
hands. The President has given our pledge of friendship to Russia and will point the way to
its fulfillment. Confident in his leadership the American troops and officials in Northern
Russia will hold to their task to the end." This was a statement made by our American Charge
d' Affairs after the Armistice, it will be noted.

The New Year's editorial in The Sentinel, our weekly paper, says, in part: "We who are here
in North Russia constitute concrete evidence that there is something real and vital behind
the words of President Wilson and other allied statesmen who have pledged that 'we shall stand
by Russia.' Few of us, particularly few Americans, realize the debt which the whole world owes
to Russia for her part in this four years struggle against German junkerism. Few of us now
realize the significance that will accrue as the years go by to the presence of allied soldiers
in Russia during this period of her greatest suffering. The battle for world peace, for democracy,
for free representative government, has not yet been fought to a finish in Russia."

With the sentiment of those two expressions, the American soldier might well be in accord.
But he was dubious about the fighting; he was learning things about the Bolsheviks; he was
hoping for statement of purposes by his government. But as the weeks dragged by he did not
get the truth from his own government. Neither from Colonel Stewart, military head of the expedition,
nor from the diplomatic and other United States' agencies who were in Archangel, did he get
satisfying facts. They allowed him to be propagandized, instead, both by the British press
and news despatches and by the American press and political partisanships of various shades
of color that came freely into North Russia to plague the already over-propagandized soldier.

Of the Bolshevik propaganda mention has been made in one or two other connections. We may add
that the Bolos must have known something of our unwarlike and dissatisfied state of mind, for
they left bundles of propaganda along the patrol paths, some of it in undecipherable characters
of the Russian alphabet; but there was a publication in English, The Call, composed in Moscow
by a Bolshevik from Milwaukee or Seattle or some other well known Soviet center on the home
shore of the Atlantic.

These are some of the extracts. The reader may judge for himself:

  "Do you British working-men know what your capitalists expect you to
  do about the war? They expect you to go home and pay in taxes figured
  into the price of your food and clothing, eight thousand millions of
  English pounds or forty thousand millions of American dollars. If you
  have any manhood, don't you think it would be fair to call all these
  debts off? If you think this is fair, then join the Russian Bolsheviks
  in repudiating all war debts.

  "Do you realize that the principle reason the British-American
  financiers have sent you to fight us for, is because we were sensible
  enough to repudiate the war debts of the bloody, corrupt old Czar?

  "You soldiers are fighting on the side of the employers against us,
  the working people of Russia. All this talk about intervention to
  'save' Russia amounts to this, that the capitalists of your countries,
  are trying to take back from us what we won from their fellow
  capitalists in Russia. Can't you realize that this is the same war
  that you have been carrying on in England and America against the
  master class? You hold the rifles, you work the guns to shoot us
  with, and you are playing the contemptible part of the scab. Comrade,
  don't do it!

  "You are kidding yourself that you are fighting for your country. The
  capitalist class places arms in your hands. Let the workers cease
  using these weapons against each other, and turn them on their
  sweaters. The capitalists themselves have given you the means to
  overthrow them, if you had but the sense and the courage to use them.
  There is only one thing that you can do: arrest your officers. Send a
  commission of your common soldiers to meet our own workingmen, and
  find out yourselves what we stand for."

All of which sounds like the peroration of an eloquent address at a meeting of America's own
I. W. W. in solemn conclave assembled. Needless to say this was not taken seriously. Soldiers
were quick to punch holes in any propaganda, or at any rate if they could not discern its falsities,
could clench their fists at those whom they believed to be seeking to "work them." Fair words
and explosive bullets did not match any more than "guard duty" and "offensive movements" matched.

Lt. Costello, in his volume, "Why Did We Go To Russia.", says: "The preponderant reason why
Americans would never be swayed by this propaganda drive, lay in their hatred of laziness and
their love of industry. If the Bolsheviki were wasting their time, however, in their propaganda
efforts directed at effects in the field, it must be a source of great comfort to Lenin and
Trotsky, Tchitcherin and Peters and others of their ilk, to know that their able, and in some
case, unwitting allies in America, who condone Bolshevist atrocities, apologize for Soviet
shortcomings, appear before Congressional committees and other agencies and contribute weak
attempts at defense of this Red curse are all serving them so well."

"Seeing red," we see Red in many things that are really harmless. In Russia, as in America,
many false accusations and false assumptions are made. We now know that of certainty the Bolshevik,
or Communistic party of Russia was aided by like-minded people in America and vice versa, but
we became rather hysterical in 1919 over those I.W.W.-Red outbursts, and very nearly let the
conflict between Red propaganda and anti-Red propaganda upset our best traditions of toleration,
of free speech, and of free press. Now we are seeing more clearly. Justice and toleration and
real information are desired. Propaganda to the American people is becoming as detested as
it was to the soldiers. Experience of the veterans of the North Russian campaign has taught
them the foolishness of propaganda and the wisdom of truth-telling. The Germans, the Bolsheviks,
the British War Office, Our War Department and self-seeking individuals who passed out propaganda,
failed miserably in the end.

XXX

REAL FACTS ABOUT ALLEGED MUTINY

Mail Bags And Morale--Imaginative Scoop Reporters And Alarmists--Few Men Lost Heads Or Hearts--Colonel
Stewart Cables To Allay Needless Fears--But War Department Had Lost Confidence Of People--Too
Bad Mutiny Allegations Got Started--Maliciously Utilized--Officially Investigated And Denied--Secretary
Baker's Letter Here Included--Facts Which Afforded Flimsy Foundation Here Related--Alleged
Mutinous Company Next Day Gallantly Fighting--Harsh Term Mutiny Not Applied By Unbiased Judges.

Four weeks to nine or twelve weeks elapsed between mailing and receiving. It is known that
both ignorance and indifference were contributing causes. We know there is in existence a file
of courteous correspondence between American and British G. H. Q. over some bags of American
mail that was left lying for a time at Murmansk when it might just as well have been forwarded
to Archangel for there were no Americans at that time on the Murmansk.

Many slips between the arrival of mail at Archangel and its distribution to the troops. How
indignant a line officer at the front was one day to hear a visitor from the American G. H.
Q. say that he had forgotten to bring the mail bags down on his train. Sometimes delivery by
airplane resulted in dropping the sacks in the deep woods to be object of curiosity only to
foxes and wolves and white-breasted crows, but of no comfort to the lonesome, disappointed
soldiers.

Ships foundered off the coast of Norway with tons of mail. Sleds in the winter were captured
by the Bolos on the lines of communication. These troubles in getting mail into Russia led
the soldiers to think that there might be equal difficulty in their letters reaching home.
And it certainly looked that way when cablegrams began insistently inquiring for many and many
a soldier whose letters had either not been written, or destroyed by the censor, or lost in
transit.

And that leads to the discussion of what were to the soldier rather terrifying rules of censorship.
Intended to contribute to his safety and to the comfort and peace of mind of his home folks
the way in which the rules were administered worked on the minds of the soldiers. Let it be
said right here that the American soldier heartily complied in most cases with the rules. He
did not try to break the rules about giving information that might be of value to the enemy.
And when during the winter there began to come into North Russia clippings from American and
British newspapers which bore more or less very accurate and descriptive accounts of the locations
and operations, even down to the strategy, of the various scattered units, they wondered why
they were not permitted after the Armistice especially, to write such things home.

And if as happened far too frequently, a man's batch of ancient letters that came after weeks
of waiting, contained a brace of scented but whining epistles from the girl he had left behind
him and perhaps a third one from a man friend who told how that same girl was running about
with a slacker who had a fifteen-dollar a day job, the man had to be a jewel and a philosopher
not to become bitter. And a bitter man deteriorates as a soldier.

To the credit of our veterans who were in North Russia let it be said that comparatively very
few of them wrote sob-stuff home. They knew it was hard enough for the folks anyway, and it
did themselves no good either. The imaginative "Scoops" among the cub reporters and the violently
inflamed imaginations and utterances of partisan politicians seeking to puff their political
sails with stories of hardships of our men in North Russia, all these and many other very well-meaning
people were doing much to aggravate the fears and sufferings of the people at home. Many a
doughboy at the front sighed wearily and shook his head doubtfully over the mess of sob-stuff
that came uncensored from the States. He sent costly cablegrams to his loved ones at home to
assure them that he was safe and not "sleeping in water forty degrees below zero" and so forth.

Not only did the screeching press articles and the roars of certain congressmen keep the homefolks
in perpetual agony over the soldiers in Russia, but the reports of the same that filtered in
through the mails to our front line campfires and Archangel comfortable billets caused trouble
and heart-burnings among the men. It seems incredible how much of it the men fell for. But
seeing it in their own home paper, many of the men actually believed tales that when told in
camp were laughed off as plain scandalous rumor.

War is not fought in a comfortable parlor or club-room, but some of the tales which slipped
through the censor from spineless cry-babies in our ranks of high and low rank, and were published
in the States and then in clippings found their way back to North Russia, lamented the fact
of the hardship of war in such insidious manner as to furnish the most formidable foe to morale
with which the troops had to cope while in Russia. The Americans only laughed at Bolshevik
propaganda which they clearly saw through. To the statement that the Reds would bring a million
rifles against Archangel they only replied, "Let 'em come, the thicker grass the heavier the
swath."

But when a man's own home paper printed the same story of the million men advancing on Archangel
with bloody bayonets fixed, and told of the horrible hardships the soldier endured--and many
of them were indeed severe hardships although most of the news stories were over-drawn and
untruthful, and coupled with these stories were shrieks at the war department to get the boys
out of Russia, together with stories of earnest and intended-to-help petitions of the best
people of the land, asking and pleading the war department to get the boys out of Russia, then
the doughboy's spirit was depressed.

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Pioneer Platoon Has Fire at 455

U S. OFFICIAL PHOTO  (158856) 310th Engineers Near Bolsheozerki

U.S. OFFICIAL Hospital "K. P.'s"

U.S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Red Cross Nurses

U.S. OFFICIAL Bartering

U.S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Mascots

U S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Col. Dupont (French) at Verst 455, Bestows Many Croix de Guerre Medals.

U S. OFFICIAL PHOTO Polish Artillery and Mascot

U. S. OFFICIAL PHOTO (158870) Russian Artillery, Verst 18

Suffer he did occasionally. Many of his comrades had a lot of suffering from cold. But aside
from the execrable boot that Sir Shakleton had dreamed into existence, he himself possessed
more warm clothing than he liked to carry around with him. But not a few soldiers forgot to
look around and take sober stock of their actual situation and fell prey to this sob-stuff.
Fortunately for the great majority of them, and this goes for every company, the great rank
and file of officers and men never lost their heads and their stout hearts.

And now we may as well deal with the actual facts in regard to the alleged mutiny of American
troops in North Russia. There was no mutiny.

In February Colonel Stewart had cabled to the War Department that "The alarmist reports of
condition of troops in North Russia as published in press end of December are not warranted
by facts. Troops have been well taken care of in every way and my officers resent these highly
exaggerated reports, feeling that slur is cast upon the regiment and its wonderful record.
Request that this be given to the press and especially to Detroit and Chicago papers to allay
any unnecessary anxiety."

He was approximately correct in his statements. His intent was a perfectly worthy one. But
it was not believed by the wildly excited people back home. Perhaps if the war department had
been entirely frank with the people in cases, say, like the publication of casualty reports
and reports of engagements, then its well-meant censorship and its attempts to allay fear might
have done some good.

As it was the day, March 31st, 1919, came when a not unwilling British cable was scandalled
and a fearsome press and people was startled with the story of an alleged mutiny of a company
of American troops in North Russia. The "I-told-you-so's" and the "wish-they-would's" of the
States were gratified. The British War Office was, too, and made the most of the story to propagandize
its tired veterans and its late-drafted youths who had been denied part in war by the sudden
Armistice. Those were urged to volunteer for service in North Russia, where it was alleged
their English comrades had been left unsupported by the mutinous Yanks. Yes, there was a pretty
mess made of the story by our own War Department, too, who first was credulous of this really
incredulous affair, tried to explain it in its usually stupid and ignorant way of explaining
affairs in North Russia, only made a bad matter worse, and then finally as they should have
done at first, gave the American Forces in North Russia a Commanding General, whose report
as quoted from the Army and Navy Journal of April 1920, will say:

  "The incident was greatly exaggerated, but while greatly regretting
  that any insubordination took place, he praised the general conduct of
  the 339th Infantry. Colonel Richardson states that the troops were
  serving under very trying conditions, and that much more serious
  disaffections appeared among troops of the Allies on duty in North
  Russia. He further says the disaffection in the company of the 339th
  Infantry, U. S. A., was handled by the regimental commander with
  discretion and good judgment."

Colonel Stewart, himself, stated to the press when he led his troops home the following July:

  "I did not have to take any disciplinary action against either an
  officer or soldier of the regiment in connection with the matter, so
  you may judge that the reports that have appeared have been very, very
  greatly exaggerated. Every soldier connected with the incident
  performed his duty as a soldier. And as far as I am concerned, I think
  the matter should be closed."

In a letter to a member of Congress from Michigan, Secretary Baker refers to the alleged mutiny
as follows:

"A cablegram, dated March 31, 1919, received from the American Military Attache at Archangel,
read in part as follows:

