Von Tirpitz in his Memoirs laid stress on the effect of the Wilson submarine notes. Ludendorff
declares in his book that the "Wilson propaganda" that found root in Berlin and finally grew
there eventually convinced the German people that it was not they themselves, but the Government
and militarism that the United States was warring against. This was the seed of dissension
that ruined German morale at home.

Tirpitz declared that the beginning of the end came when in answer to the President's Sussex
note, "We showed the world that we were going down before America."

Probably the most enlightening chapter of either book is that containing Tirpitz's contention
that the influence of the Wilson submarine notes resulted in Japan's stronger and more active
alliance with the Allies. In this connection Von Tirpitz says:

    Only the transmitting to Germany of the threatening notes of President
    Wilson, when he inveighed against my submarine campaign during the
    latter stages of the war, prevented Japan from coming to us in a great
    Germano-Japanese alliance, which would have ended the war at once.

The overtures of the Pope, in August, 1917, were rejected and again the attention of the world
was arrested by the masterly leadership of the American President. On August 16, 1917, I addressed
the following letter to the President with reference to the offers of peace made by His Holiness
Pope Benedict XV:

    The White House, Washington,
      16 August, 1917.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I do not believe that the proposals the Pope has submitted should lead
    us into a statement as to the terms of peace beyond that which the
    President has already given expression to in his address in the Senate
    and in his Russian note. In these two documents are discussed the
    fundamentals of international peace. Some of these fundamentals the
    Pope recognizes in his statement to the belligerents. To go beyond a
    discussion of these now might lead to a conflict of opinion even among
    our own allies (for instance, France hopes for the return of Alsace
    Lorraine; Russia, for Constantinople, etc.).

    When the President said in his address of April second, last, that we
    were not making war on the German people, I believe he set the stage
    for the abdication of the Kaiser. And I think our whole note in reply
    to the Pope should be so framed that this idea would always be kept in
    the forefront of our discussion so as to bring home to the people of
    Germany the distrust and utter contempt in which the ruling powers of
    Germany are held by the peoples of the world.

    Our note in reply to the Pope should, I believe, embody the following
    ideas:

    "First--More important now than the terms of peace are the spirit and
    character of the nations who wish to end the war.

    "Second--How can any international agreement to bring an end to the
    conflict be discussed until those who brought it about can be made to
    realize the inviolability of treaty obligations?

    "Third--Attack the good faith of the ruling powers of Germany, calling
    attention to the fact that Germany brought on the war; that Germany
    invaded Belgium; that Germany ravished France, sank the Lusitania,
    ravished the women and children of the conquered territories; that
    Germany decreed submarine warfare, and 'erected barbarism into a
    religion.

    "Fourth--And the democratic nations of the world are asked to confide
    their future and the future of the world to a nation that believes
    that force of arms should be substituted for the moral force of right.
    In other words, the ruling powers of Germany must purge themselves of
    contempt before they shall be given the hearing that the Pope feels
    they are entitled to."

    This form of reply will, I am sure, rouse the people of Germany to a
    realization of the situation which confronts them, for there is
    abundant evidence that they are gradually arriving at the conclusion
    that the Kaiser no longer represents them or their ideals.

    In other words, what I should like to see the President do is not to
    discuss in extenso our terms of peace but rather confine himself to a
    general attack upon the lack of good faith on the part of Germany in
    all of her dealings with us.

    TUMULTY.

CHAPTER XXXII

COLONEL ROOSEVELT AND GENERAL WOOD

It will be recalled that early in the war Colonel Roosevelt called at the White House to confer
with the President regarding his desire to lead a brigade to the other side. I recall distinctly
every fact of that meeting. I was seated a few feet away in the Red Room of the White House
at the time these two men were conferring. Nothing could have been pleasanter or more agreeable
than this meeting. They had not met since they were political opponents in 1912, but prior
to that they had had two or three friendly visits with each other. Mr. Wilson had once lunched
with Colonel Roosevelt at Sagamore Hill, and when the Colonel was President, he and his party
had been luncheon guests of President and Mrs. Wilson of Princeton University on the occasion
of an Army and Navy game played on the Princeton gridiron.

They met in the White House in the most friendly fashion, told each other anecdotes, and seemed
to enjoy together what the Colonel was accustomed to call a "bully time."

The object of the Colonel's call was discussed without heat or bitterness. The President placed
before the Colonel his own ideas regarding Mr. Roosevelt's desire to serve, and the attitude
of the General Staff toward the volunteer system, a system that would have to be recognized
if the Colonel's ambition was to be realized. As a matter of fact, instead of being moved by
any ill will toward the Colonel, the inclination of the President was to overrule the recommendation
of the General Staff and urge that the Colonel be granted permission to go over seas. The salutations
at the end of the conference were most friendly and the Colonel, on his way out, stopped in
to see me. He slapped me on the back in the most friendly way, and said: "By Jove, Tumulty,
you are a man after my own heart! Six children, eh? Well now, you get me across and I will
put you on my staff, and you may tell Mrs. Tumulty that I will not allow them to place you
at any point of danger."

Some weeks later, I received the following letter from Colonel Roosevelt:

    Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.
      April 12, 1917.

    MY DEAR MR. TUMULTY:

    That was a fine speech of Williams. I shall write him and congratulate
    him.

    Now, don't forget that it might be a very good thing to have you as
    one of my commissioned officers at Headquarters. You could do really
    important work there, and tell Mrs. Tumulty and the six children, that
    this particular service would probably not be dangerous. Come, sure!

    Sincerely yours,
      THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

    MR. JOSEPH P. TUMULTY,
      Secretary to the President,
      Washington, D.C.

After the Colonel departed, the President in a boyish way said: "Well, and how did the Colonel
impress you?" I told the President of the very favourable impression the Colonel had made upon
me by his buoyancy, charm of manner, and his great good nature. The President replied by saying:
"Yes, he is a great big boy. I was, as formerly, charmed by his personality. There is a sweetness
about him that is very compelling. You can't resist the man. I can easily understand why his
followers are so fond of him."

It was, therefore, with real pain that the President read the account of this interview as
contained in John J. Leary's book entitled "Talks with T. R.," containing many slighting references
made by the Colonel to the President. It appears that Mr. Leary accompanied the Colonel to
the White House and immediately upon the conclusion of the conference was the recipient of
a confidential statement of the Colonel's impression of the President. The account in Mr. Leary's
book is as follows:

    I found that, though I had written plainly enough, there was confusion
    in his [Wilson's] mind as to what I wanted to do. I explained
    everything to him. He seemed to take it well, but--remember I was
    talking to Mr. Wilson.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Tumulty, by way of a half joke, said he might go to France with me. I
    said: 'By Jove, you come right along! I'll have a place for you.' I
    would, too, but it wouldn't be the place he thinks. It is possible he
    might be sent along as sort of a watchdog to keep Mr. Wilson informed
    as to what was being done. He wouldn't be, though. He'd keep his
    distance from headquarters except when he was sent for.

           *       *       *       *       *

    He [Wilson] has promised me nothing definitely, but as I have said, if
    any other man than he talked to me as he did, I would feel assured. If
    I talked to another man as he talked to me it would mean that that man
    was going to get permission to fight. But I was talking to Mr. Wilson.
    His words may mean much, they may mean little. He has, however, left
    the door open.

Of course, what ultimately happened is clear to everyone, civilian and soldier, who pauses
a moment to reflect; as plans for the conduct of the war matured, it became continually clearer
that it must be a professional war, conducted by professionals with complete authority over
subordinates. There could be no experimenting with volunteer commanders, no matter how great
their valour, how pure their motives, or how eminent their positions in the nation. To make
an exception of Colonel Roosevelt would have been to strike at the heart of the whole design.
Military experts and the majority of Congressional opinion were at one in this matter, though
Congress put upon the President the responsibility of making the final decision, together with
whatever obloquy this would entail. It was purely as a step in the interest of waging the war
with greatest effectiveness that the President announced the decision adverse to the Colonel's
wishes. Personally it would have been pleasanter for the President to grant the Colonel's request,
but President Wilson has never adopted "the easiest way."

A great deal of criticism was heaped upon the President for what appeared to the outside as
his refusal to send General Leonard Wood to France. Although a fierce storm of criticism beat
upon him, the President displayed no resentment, nor, indeed, did he seem to notice what his
critics were saying.

As a matter of fact, the President played no part in the movement to keep General Wood from
realizing his ambition to lead his division to France. Mr. George Creel in his book, "The War,
The World and Wilson," has succinctly summarized this incident; has told how the name of General
Wood did not appear in any of the lists of officers received from General Pershing; how the
President took this as a plain indication that General Pershing did not desire General Wood
in France (the absence of so eminent a name from the lists was certainly not an oversight 011
the part of the Commanding General in France); how President Wilson was determined to support
General Pershing in every detail so long as General Pershing in the President's opinion was
meeting the requirements of the great responsibility laid upon him; how the President was insistent
that General Pershing should not be embarrassed by political considerations of any kind in
the discharge of his great military duty; how the unfortunate feature of the whole matter was
that the recall of General Wood did not come until "after he had taken his brigade to New York
preparatory to sailing for the other side"; how "General March treated the circumstance as
one of military routine entirely, utterly failing to realize its political importance"; how
"instead of informing General Wood at once that he had not been chosen to go to France, General
March followed the established procedure and waited for the completion of the training period
before issuing orders to the division commanders"; how "General Wood left Camp Funston in advance
of his division and without waiting to receive his orders"; how General March sent these orders
to New York; how "in consequence there was an appearance of eleventh-hour action, an effect
of jerking General Wood from the very deck of the transport"; how "General Wood carried his
complaint to the President and was told plainly that the list would not be revised in the personal
interest of any soldier or politician."

I discussed the matter with General Wood immediately upon the conclusion of his conference
with the President. Walking into my office after his interview, the General informed me that
his talk with the President was most agreeable and satisfactory and that he was certain, although
the President did not intimate it to him, that the reason for his being held in America could
not be attributed to the President. Turning to me, the General said: "I know who is responsible
for this. It is that man Pershing." I assured the General that there was nothing in the President's
attitude toward him that was in the least degree unfriendly, and reminded him how the President
had retained him as Chief of Staff when he assumed office in 1913. The General, very much to
my surprise, intimated that back of Pershing's attitude toward him was political consideration.
I tried to reassure him and, indeed, I resented this characterization of General Pershing as
an unjust and unwarranted imputation upon the Commander of the American Expeditionary Forces.

I myself felt that General Wood was being unfairly treated, although I did not admit this to
him in our interview. I took the liberty of saying this to the President over the telephone
from my house that evening. I tried to convince the President that there was a feeling rapidly
spreading throughout the country that Wood was being unfairly treated and that it was not just
that the Administration, which I knew was blameless in the matter, should be compelled to bear
the responsibility of the whole thing and pay what I was certain would be a great price in
the loss of popular esteem.

The President in his reply to my statement showed irritation at what I said in General Wood's
behalf, and used very emphatic language in conveying to me the idea that he would not interfere
in having the list, upon which General Wood's name appeared, revised. I urged that if General
Wood was not to be sent to France, he should be given a chance to go to Italy. Our conversation
over the telephone in reference to the Wood matter was as follows: "I trust, Governor, that
you can see your way clear to send General Wood either to France or to Italy."

Without a moment's hesitation, the President said: "I am sorry, but it cannot be done."

Whereupon, I said: "It is not fair that the Administration should be carrying the burden of
this whole affair. If General Pershing or the General Staff is responsible for holding General
Wood in this country, surely they have good reason, and the public ought to be apprised of
it, and thus remove the suspicion that we are playing politics."

The President quickly interrupted me and said: "I am not at all interested in any squabble
or quarrel between General Pershing and General Wood. The only thing I am interested in is
winning this war. I selected General Pershing for this task and I intend to back him up in
every recommendation he makes."

When I tried to emphasize the feeling of dissatisfaction throughout the country over the Wood
incident, he replied that the responsibility of winning the war was upon General Pershing and
himself and not upon the critics who thought that General Wood was being badly treated. I then
said: "But it is not fair to you to have it said that by reason of some feeling that you may
have against Wood you are keeping him on this side."

The President replied: "I am sorry, but I do not care a damn for the criticism of the country.
It would not be fair to Pershing if I tried to escape what appears to be my responsibility.
I do not intend to embarrass General Pershing by forcing his hand. If Pershing does not make
good, I will recall him, but it must not be said that I have failed to support him at every turn."

His attitude toward Wood and Roosevelt was consistently maintained, in supporting the General
Staff and the War Department throughout the war. The only thing that seemed to interest him
was how quickly and effectively to do the job and to find the man who could do it.

CHAPTER XXXIII

WILSON, THE WARRIOR

The President had but one object: to throw all the nation's energy into the scale for the defeat
of Germany. Because he did not bluster and voice daily hymns of hate against Germany, he was
singularly misunderstood by some of his fellow-citizens, who, in their own boiling anger against
the enemy, would sometimes peevishly inquire: "Does he really hate Germany?" The President
was too much occupied with deeds to waste time in word- vapouring. By every honourable means
he had sought to avoid the issue, but a truculent and fatuous foe had made war necessary, and
into that war the peace-loving President went with the grim resolution of an iron warrior.
In his attitude before and during the war his motto might have been the familiar words of Polonius:

  Beware of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
  Bear't, that the opposed may beware of thee.

Months after hostilities had ended, there appeared from time to time in the newspapers, without
his or my knowledge of proposed publication, utterances of his to military men during the conflict
which showed his warrior heart and his extraordinary ability to grasp a technical military
problem such as his dispatch to Admiral Sims, his address to the officers of the Atlantic Fleet,
and his interview with Marshal Joffre in the White House. Perhaps it is not generally known
that Mr. Wilson, who has constantly read and loved the philosophic poetry of Wordsworth, has
also been an intense admirer of Shakespeare's warrior-hero, Henry the Fifth, and has frequently
read aloud to friends, with exclamations of admiration, the stirring speeches of Henry in the
Shakespearean play.

The cable message to Admiral Sims is as follows:

    FROM THE PRESIDENT FOR ADMIRAL SIMS,
       American Embassy, London, July 5, 1917.

    Strictly confidential.

    From the beginning of the war, I have been greatly surprised at the
    failure of the British Admiralty to use Great Britain's great naval
    superiority in an effective way. In the presence of the present
    submarine emergency they are helpless to the point of panic. Every
    plan we suggest they reject for some reason of prudence. In my view,
    this is not a time for prudence but for boldness even at the cost of
    great losses. In most of your dispatches you have quite properly
    advised us of the sort of aid and cooperation desired from us by the
    Admiralty. The trouble is that their plans and methods do not seem to
    us efficacious. I would be very much obliged to you if you would
    report to me, confidentially, of course, exactly what the Admiralty
    has been doing, and what they have accomplished, and add to the report
    your own comments and suggestions, based upon independent thought of
    the whole situation, without regard to the judgments of any one on
    that side of the water. The Admiralty was very slow to adopt the
    protection or convoy and it is not now, I judge [protecting] convoys
    on adequate scale within the danger zone, seeming to keep small craft
    with the grand fleet. The absence of craft for convoy is even more
    apparent on the French coast than on the English coast and in the
    Channel. I do not see how the necessary military supplies and supplies
    of food and fuel oil are to be delivered at British ports in any other
    way within the next few months than under adequate convoy. There will
    presently not be ships or tankers enough and our shipbuilding plans
    may not begin to yield important results in less than eighteen months.
    I believe that you will keep these instructions absolutely and
    entirely to yourself, and that you will give me such advice as you
    would give if you were handling and if you were running a navy of your
    own.

    (Signed) WOODROW WILSON.

For sheer audacity, there is not much that can be compared with his address to the officers
of the Atlantic Fleet on August 11, 1917:

    Now, the point that is constantly in my mind, gentlemen, is this: This
    is an unprecedented war and, therefore, it is a war in one sense for
    amateurs. Nobody ever before conducted a war like this and therefore
    nobody can pretend to be a professional in a war like this. Here are
    two great navies, not to speak of the others associated with us, our
    own and the British, outnumbering by a very great margin the navy to
    which we are opposed and yet casting about for a war in which to use
    our superiority and our strength, because of the novelty of the
    instruments used, because of the unprecedented character of the war,
    because, as I said just now, nobody ever before fought a war like
    this, in the way that this is being fought at sea, or on land either,
    for that matter. The experienced soldier--experienced in previous
    wars--is a back number so far as his experience is concerned; not so
    far as his intelligence is concerned. His experience does not count,
    because he never fought a war as this is being fought, and therefore
    he is an amateur along with the rest of us. Now, somebody has got to
    think this war out. Somebody has got to think out the way not only to
    fight the submarine, but to do something different from what we are
    doing.

    We are hunting hornets all over the farm and letting the nest alone.
    None of us know how to go to the nest and crush it; and yet I despair
    of hunting for hornets all over the sea when I know where the nest is
    and know that the nest is breeding hornets as fast as I can find them.
    I am willing for my part, and I know you are willing because I know
    the stuff you are made of--I am willing to sacrifice half the navy
    Great Britain and we together have to crush out that nest, because if
    we crush it the war is won. I have come here to say that I do not care
    where it comes from, I do not care whether it comes from the youngest
    officer or the oldest, but I want the officers of this navy to have
    the distinction of saying how this war is going to be won. The
    Secretary of the Navy and I have just been talking over plans for
    putting the planning machinery of the Navy at the disposal of the
    brains of the Navy and not stopping to ask what rank those brains
    have, because, as I have said before and want to repeat, so far as
    experience in this kind of war is concerned we are all of the same
    rank. I am not saying that I do not expect the admirals to tell us
    what to do, but I am saying that I want the youngest and most modest
    youngster in the service to tell us what we ought to do if he knows
    what it is. Now I am willing to make any sacrifice for that. I mean
    any sacrifice of time or anything else. I am ready to put myself at
    the disposal of any officer in the Navy who thinks he knows how to run
    this war. I will not undertake to tell you whether he does or not,
    because I know that I do not, but I will undertake to put him in
    communication with those who can find out whether his idea will work
    or not. I have the authority to do that and I will do it with the
    greatest pleasure.

           *       *       *       *       *

    We have got to throw tradition to the wind. Now, as I have said,
    gentlemen, I take it for granted that nothing that I say here will be
    repeated and therefore I am going to say this: Every time we have
    suggested anything to the British Admiralty the reply has come back
    that virtually amounted to this, that it had never been done that way,
    and I felt like saying: "Well, nothing was ever done so systematically
    as nothing is being done now." Therefore I should like to see
    something unusual happen, something that was never done before; and
    inasmuch as the things that are being done to you were never done
    before, don't you think it is worth while to try something that was
    never done before against those who are doing them to you. There is no
    other way to win, and the whole principle of this war is the kind of
    thing that ought to hearten and stimulate America. America has always
    boasted that she could find men to do anything. She is the prize
    amateur nation of the world. Germany is the prize professional nation
    of the world. Now when it comes to doing new things and doing them
    well, I will back the amateur against the professional every time,
    because the professional does it out of the book and the amateur does
    it with his eyes open upon a new world and with a new set of
    circumstances. He knows so little about it that he is fool enough to
    try to do the right thing. The men that do not know the danger are the
    rashest men, and I have several times ventured to make this suggestion
    to the men about me in both arms of the service. Please leave out of
    your vocabulary altogether the word "prudent." Do not stop to think
    about what is prudent for a moment. Do the thing that is audacious to
    the utmost point of risk and daring, because that is exactly the thing
    that the other side does not understand, and you will win by the
    audacity of method when you cannot win by circumspection and prudence.
    I think that there are willing ears to hear this in the American Navy
    and the American Army because that is the kind of folk we are. We get
    tired of the old ways and covet the new ones.

    So, gentlemen, besides coming down here to give you my personal
    greeting and to say how absolutely I rely on you and believe in you, I
    have come down here to say also that I depend on you, depend on you
    for brains as well as training and courage and discipline.

When Marshal Joffre visited the President in the spring of 1917, he was surprised, as he afterward
said to Secretary Daniels, "to find that President Wilson had such a perfect mastery of the
military situation. He had expected to meet a scholar, a statesman, and an idealist; he had
not expected to meet a practical strategist fully conversant with all the military movements.

"In answer to my question as to whether it would be feasible to send in advance of his army
the general who was to command American troops in France, the President said at once that it
could be arranged."

