But this is hardly worth mentioning, for it is clear that there is, generally speaking, a mode
of spelling the English language which is followed by all well-educated persons; and as, according
to Quintilian, the consensus eruditorum forms the consuetudo sermonis, so this usage of spelling,
adopted by general consent of the learned, becomes a law in the republic of literature. My
object is not to insist on what is so plain and notorious, but rather to call attention to
a fact which many readers do not know, and many others do not duly consider. I mean this fact--that
three or four hundred years ago there was no such settled rule. Not that a different mode was
recognised, but that there was no recognised mode. There was no idea in the minds of persons
who had occasion to write, that any such thing existed, for in fact it did not exist; and the
adoption of this or that mode was a matter of taste or accident, rather than of duty or propriety.
Thus it was that the writer who spelt (or spelled, for we have some varieties still) a word
variously in different parts of the same book or document, and even the printer whose own name
appeared one way on the title-page and another on the colophon, was not contradicting his contemporaries
or himself: he was not breaking the law, for there was none to break--or, at least, none that
could be broken in that way. He would, perhaps, have said to the same effect, though not so
elegantly as Quintilian: 'For my part, except where there is any established custom to the
contrary, I think everything should be written as it is sounded; for the use of letters is
to preserve sounds, and render them, as things which they have been holding in trust, to the
reader.' In short, the people of England, in these old times, had a law of their own, though
it did not manifest itself in a fixed mode of spelling, but differed from ours, and, indeed,
was based on a very different principle. Perhaps I might say, that they were brought up, not
to the Spelling-book, but the Horn-book.

By this, I mean that the critic of modern times has been no doubt well drilled in the spelling-book,
soundly rated if he was guilty of a misspelling, and made to understand that it was next to
impossible for him to commit a more disgusting barbarism; while his many-times-great-grandfather
(the scholar of Lily, perhaps we might almost say of Busby) went through no such discipline.
He was, as I have said, brought up on the horn-book.

Now, I grant that, generally, the major includes the minor; and a man's being able to read
is prima facie evidence that he knows his letters; yet it is possible that the modern many-times-great-grandson
may indulge in as much laxity respecting letters, as his ancestor did with regard to words.
Just try the experiment. Go round to half-a-dozen printers, and ask them to print for you the
first letter of the alphabet. They will understand you, and you will understand me, without
my puzzling the workman who is to print this--if it is printed--by naming the letter here.
Apply to them, I say, successively to print this letter for you. It is not likely that any
one of them will ask you: 'What shape will you have it?' because that is not a technical mode
of expression among printers; but if any one should do so, you would perhaps answer with some
surprise: 'Why, the right shape to be sure. Do not you know your letters, and are not your
first, second, and third letters, and all through the alphabet, of the right shape? Only take
care that you do not make this first one in the shape of the second, or third, or any of those
which follow, for the whole set are distinguished from one another simply and purely by their
shape.'

As I have said, however, if you applied to a practical man, he would not put the question in
this form. At the same time, he certainly would put it in another. He would perhaps say: 'What
type will you have? Shall it be Roman, Italic, Black-letter, Script, or any of the grotesque
inventions of modern fancy?' You immediately become aware that your order is too indefinite
to be acted on without some further specification. As, however, it is immaterial to you in
a matter of mere experiment, you say at once 'Roman.' Does that settle it?--not at all: the
question of form and shape is as wide open as ever. The Upper Case and Lower Case in a printing-office
differ as much as the Upper House and Lower House in parliament or convocation. Is it to be
a great 'A,' or a little 'a?' A great 'A,' I need not tell you, though quite the same in sound
and value, is no more like a little 'a,' than a great 'B' is like a little 'b.'

As to writing also, as well as printing--set half-a-dozen critics separately and apart to write
a capital 'A,' and see how far the letters which they will produce agree in form and shape--I
do not say with any in the printer's stock, for not one will do that, we may be certain, but
with each other. One scribe will probably make something like an inverted cornucopia, or wiredrawn
extinguisher; and one will cross it with a dash, and another with a loop; while another will
make a letter wholly different--something that shall look like a pudding leaning against a
trencher set on edge--something that is only a great 'A' by courtesy, being in fact nothing
but an overgrown little 'a;' bearing the same proportion to a common 'a' as an alderman does
to a common man, and looking as if it had been invented by some municipal scribe or official
whose eye was familiar with the outline of recumbent obesity.

But notwithstanding these and many other variations, you freely allow that each of your friends
has made a capital 'A.' You do not dream of saying that one is right, and all the rest are
wrong. The taste and the skill of their penmanship may be various, and the judgment of good
and bad goes so far, but it knows better than to go further. Your toleration on this point
is unbounded. If you can but make it out, you say, without the least emotion of resentment
or contempt: 'Mr A. always makes his Bs in this way;' and 'Mrs C. always makes her Ds in that
way.' Their Bs and Ds forsooth! Yes: 'every man his own alphabet-maker.' Why not, if you do
but understand him? Right or wrong, the fact is that, come in what shape it may, you take what
stands for 'A' to be 'A,' with all the rights and qualities annexed to that letter. Except
so far as taste is concerned, you do not think of rebuking the self-complacent type-founder,
who prides himself on having produced a new form which all the world will admit to be a genuine
'A,' as soon as they make out that it was meant for one.

I have thought it worth while to say all this about letters, because I believe that it will
illustrate what was once upon a time nearly true as to words. The principle of those who had
occasion to write in those early times was, so far as circumstances allowed, just opposite
to that of the modern critics who find fault with their practice. They made that which, notwithstanding
its fluctuations, we may call 'the constant quantity' to be the sound, exactly as we do with
the multiform As and Bs just noticed. On the other hand, modern purists consider, not altogether
incorrectly as to the fact, that the notation has somehow been settled and fixed, and they
are disposed to force the sound into conformity. 'B, y, spells by,' said Lord Byron; and what
he settled for himself, the spelling-book has settled for the rest of the world and all the
words in it.

The circumstances of those who wrote English some centuries ago, may be considered as bearing
some analogy to those of modern English authors who have occasion to write down Oriental words
in English letters, and who are therefore obliged to make the characters which we use represent
sounds which we do not utter. Of course there can only be an approximation. Writers feel that
there is a discretion, and use it freely. It is easy for one after another to imagine that
he has improved on the spelling of his predecessors. How many variegations and transmogrifications
has the name of one unhappy Eastern tongue undergone since the days when Athanasius Kircher
discoursed of the Hanscreet tongue of the Brahmins? I am almost afraid to write the name of
Vishnoo, for I do not remember to have seen it in any book published within these five years;
and what it may have come to by this time, I cannot guess. To a certain point, I think, this
progressive purification of the mode of representing Eastern sounds has been acceptable to
the world of letters; but the reading-public have shewn that there is a point at which they
may lose patience. They not long ago decided that Haroun Alraschid, and Giafar, and Mesrour,
and even the Princess Badroulboudour, and the fair slave Nouzhatoul-aouadat, had all 'proper
names,' and refused to part with the friends of their youth for a more correctly named set
of persons never before heard of.

This by the way, however; for the main object of these remarks is to convey and impress the
idea, that what naturally seems to us the strange and uncouth spelling of former times, was
not a proof of the gross, untaught ignorance which it would now indicate. The purpose of the
writer in those days was, not to spell accurately words which there was no strict rule for
spelling, but to note down words in such a way as to enable those who had not heard them to
reproduce them, and to impart their sense through the eye to those who should only see them.
One of the finest proofs and specimens of this which we possess, is to be found in a sort of
historical drama, now about three hundred years old, written by Bishop Bale, one of the most
learned men of his time, and still existing, partly in his hand-writing, and partly in another
hand, with his autograph corrections.[1] Certainly the prelate and the scribe between them
did, as we should consider it, most atrociously murder the king and queen's English--for I
suppose it would be hard to say how much of it belonged to Edward, and how much to Elizabeth;
and there is something quite surprising in the prolific ingenuity with which they evade what
we should consider the obvious and natural spelling. For instance, one of the dramatis personæ,
and a very important one, is an allegorical person called 'Civil Order;' but I believe that
the word 'civil' thus spelled never occurs in the whole work, though seven other modes of spelling
it are to be found there. What then? You know what the writer means by cyvill, cyvyll, cyvyle,
sivyll, syvyll, sivile, and syvile. Only say it out, and don't be afraid. It is mere nervousness
that hinders people from reading old spelling. Clear your throat, and set off at full speed,
and the top of your voice, with the following paragraph. Do not stop to think; take the raspers
without looking at them, and you will find that you get over the ground wonderfully:--

'The suttle munkych rewlars in furdewhodes rewled the pepell with suttyll rewles. But some
of the pepyll were sedycyows scysmatyckes, and did puplyshe them for dysgysyd ipocryts, full
of desseyvable gylle and covytous hydolatrie of luker. And these sysmatykes could in no wysse
indewer that lords, nowther dewks, nor yet the kings mageste, nor even the empowr, should ponnysh
any vylayn. Because, say they, peples in general, as well as peplys in particular (that is,
yehe man and his ayers), hath an aunchant and ondowghted right to do his dessyer attonys. "Yea
sewer," said a myry fellawe (for such as be myrie will make myrye jests)--"even as good right
as a pertre to yield peres, and praty pygys to eat them."'

It is, of course, only for the spelling, or various spellings, of these words that the bishop
is responsible, they being here arbitrarily brought together from various parts of his work
merely to form a specimen. There can be no doubt that he would have pronounced the words 'people'
and 'merry' in one uniform manner wherever they occur; but it is curious to consider how little
we can judge respecting the pronunciation of our forefathers. Their litera scripta manet; but
how they vocalised it, we cannot always decide. If the reader takes up any edition of Sternhold
and Hopkins, printed less than a hundred years ago, he may, I believe, read in Psalm lxxix--

  O God, the Gentiles do invade,
    thine heritage to spoil:
  Jerusalem an heap is made--
    thy temple they defile.

Any one who is aware how many of what are called 'vulgarisms' in pronunciation are in fact
'archaisms,' will naturally think that the ancient pronunciation of 'spoil,' like the modern
vulgar one, was 'spile.' But if he goes to one old black letter--say that printed by John Windet
for the assignees of Richard Day in 1593--he will find in the fourth line 'defoile;' and if
he goes to another edition he may find 'defoyle;' and he will learn that in speculating on
such matters, he must be on his guard against modernisers, and go to originals. Even then the
rhymes of our ancestors teach us much less of their pronunciation than we might expect; and
the curious glimpses which we sometimes get from them, and from other sources, are only enough
to make us wish for more. Take, for instance, Master Holofernes's vituperation of Don Adrian
de Armado in Love's Labour Lost, and see what you can make of it: 'I abhor such phantasms,
such insociable and point-devise companions, such rackers of orthography, as to speak dout
fine, when he should say doubt; det, when he should pronounce debt; d, e, b, t; not d, e, t;
he clepeth a calf, cauf; half, hauf; neighbour vocatur nebour; neigh abbreviated ne: this is
abominable, which we would call abhominable.' Such a passage is curious, coming from one of
whom it was asked: 'Monsieur, are you not lettered?' and answered: 'Yes, yes; he teaches boys
the Horn-book.'

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Kynge Johan, a Play in Two Parts. By John Bale. Edited for the Camden Society by J. Payne
Collier, Esq., F. S. A., from the Manuscript of the Author in the Library of the Duke of Devonshire.
1838.

A FEW WORDS ABOUT ROOMS AND THEIR ORNAMENTS.

The sun shines brightly to-day, and his beams glance lovingly from the flowers without to those
within the room, and rest upon the 'Eve' that stands among them; the light is toned into softness
by this green drapery, and reminds us of the leaves and tracery which peep in at the windows.
We find, in the effect of the whole, such a delicate reflex of the nature outside, that we
live with a half-conscious perception that but a tent-like division exists between us and the
birds and blossoms in the garden. We love this room as we do few others, not for the evidences
of wealth in it, though these exist, but because the idea regulating its arrangement is predominant
through all its details. Affection and love of beauty were present at its creation for home-life,
and worked it into harmony. All rooms might have this kind of beauty, subject only to slight
modifications from position and wealth.

Character, in reality, has everything to do with it. Rooms tell us much of their inhabitants.
No one will doubt who remembers the stiff, formal arrangement of the drawing-room 'at school,'
where the chairs stood in the primmest rows and couples, and the whole place breathed such
an air of strict propriety, that we doubted whether a hearty laugh would not be unbecoming
in it; or the uncomfortable, seldom used, conventional drawing-room, which has such fine-looking,
unreadable books on its polished tables; or the cheerful tiny room of the friend who has very
little money, but very much taste, and who hangs an engraving there, and puts flowers here,
and makes a shrine out of an ordinary garret. In some rooms, we see that life is respectably
got through in a routine of eating, sleeping, comfort-loving; in others, that it glances to
the stars, and lives with the flowers; in others, again, that it finds out good in shady nooks
or crowded cities, and is filled with affection and intelligence.

There are very few rooms, except among the poorest and most degraded, that have not in them
some indications of the love of beauty, which is so universal in human nature. Influenced by
the same feeling, the cottager's wife scours her tins, arranges her little cupboard of cups
and saucers, buys barbarous delineations of 'Noah in the Ark,' or 'Christ with the Elders,'
from the pedler; and the nobleman collects around him all he thinks precious in bronze or painting.
Cleanliness and order are certainly the simplest manifestations of the love of the beautiful
in the household--the germ, which the feeling in its highest development must include; but
too many among us remain satisfied with the lower form, and from some reason or other, fail
to see the further gratification that is possible to all. Nature, however, stimulates and satisfies
this love everywhere, and society in many directions is following in her footsteps. Let us
see what can be done in the matter. After all, rooms must still retain the impress of the character
of their inhabitants. Yes; but there are certain general rules which all who do arrange them
would do well to remember. In the first place, they should be well lighted, and as thoroughly
ventilated as they can be made; the eye should be pleased with their general effect; no detail
of colouring or furniture should mar it; they should be filled with gentle relief, not uniformity
of colour; and there should be as many waving lines, instead of angles, as possible. They should
contain all things necessary to their several characters, but nothing very superfluous; and
their whole arrangement should indicate, and be subservient to, the idea that prompted it.
Above all, they should have in them some thing, or things, to soothe the thoughts, stimulate
the fancy, and suggest something higher than the ordinary uses which they serve. Human beings,
even in the life of a day, experience many fluctuations of mood, of joy or sadness; and there
should be some thing, if not person, in their homes, that would suggest to them mute sympathy
and comfort.

Are we sad? It is winter now, and these hyacinth bulbs are unsightly, but spring will bring
flowers to them, as time and patience will to us. Are we glad? These roses and geraniums glow
in the sunbeams, and we rejoice together. Are we dull? That beautiful Greek form rouses us
into activity again. Are we weary of climbing, and dissatisfied with our want of success? Turn
to that Raphael, and let us remember, that all who faint not by the way, and aspire worthily,
shall at length be transfigured in the light of truth and beauty. There are few if any rooms
that need be without some such suggestion and comfort. Nature offers them lavishly to all who
care to seek them; and first, and most generously, her loveliest of treasures, flowers, which
are the brightest of drawing-room accessories, as well as the sweetest of cottage adornments.
Sea-weed, too--which is more difficult to get, but when arranged with taste, is so exquisite
in colour--is a sweet remembrance of sea-side beaches and the odour of the spray. Bits of pine-bark
and fir-cones are beautiful as to colour, and bring back to us pictures of woods gleaming in
the western light, and well-known landscapes seen through vistas of tall stems; sprays of clematis
and bryony, a group of ivy-leaves, or bunch of ripe corn, require nothing but a little graceful
arrangement to throw a light of beauty over many a dull corner. But some of these ornaments
are perishable, and can but delight us for awhile. We must have something more permanent. Ah,
then, there are shells which still echo faintly the delicious murmur of the waves, and reflect
all the colours of sea and sky together; one or two of them we must secure: the graceful nautilus,
from whose mouth shall hang in summer some pendent blossoms; and that Venus's ear, which glitters
in the sunbeams as it lies upon the table, and bears the impress of spirits' wings upon its
inner surface. Bronzes, marbles, and paintings can be purchased only by the wealthy, so we
will not speak of them; we will see them as often as we can in public galleries, and meanwhile
rejoice that such fine substitutes in plaster and engraving may become ours. These are yearly
becoming more common among us; and treasures of antique and modern art, Grecian gods, and Italian
Madonnas, may be our own household delights by the expenditure of a few shillings. Of course,
to the taste and requirements of each individual must be left the selection of the kind and
character of the beauty he desires to have around him.

Some subjects in art are best suited for enjoyment in rooms destined for solitary use, others
for those of general resort--some touch us peculiarly in one mood, some are welcome to us in
all. Of this last character 'St Catherine borne by Angels' is a specimen: the earth sinks beneath
them, they fly so swiftly and yet so calmly! we are in the air too with them, and mark how
small the world looks, with its burdens of wrong and suffering, as we cleave our way through
the fields of ether up towards the stars; and that lovely one the spirits hold so tenderly,
how still and calm is every line!--she is at peace after the storm and the agony, and for a
space we lie still as she in those angel arms. Of the same class is Raphael's 'Transfiguration,'
which is magnificent if we only contemplate the grouping of the figures, but truly sublime
in the ideas it suggests. Flaxman's 'Mercury and Pandora' likewise, elegant and graceful in
the highest degree, is peculiarly suited for generally used rooms and constant delight. But
specimens crowd into our recollection for which we have not space. General sitting-rooms can
bear a variety of subject and suggestion--they will have a variety of inhabitants or visitors;
and while bearing the impress of a certain unity, they should contain pleasure for all, and
stimuli for differing minds. We would not habitually admit in them works of art which rouse
too painful a class of emotions. Fuseli's picture of 'Count Ugolino in Prison,' in which the
stony fixedness of despair deprives us, as we gaze, almost of the living hope within us, we
could not bear to have near us habitually. That wonderfully beautiful marble of Francesca di
Rimini and her lover, which appeared in the Great Exhibition last year, would come under the
same law of banishment. It realised so perfectly the hopelessness of hell, that at sight of
it we swooned in spirit as Dante did in reality. Life has so many stern realities for most
of us, that in art we need relief, and generally desire to find renewed hope and faith through
delight and gladness.

In rooms where we need care to please only ourselves, we can follow our own tastes more entirely
and freely. In them, shall we not have a Madonna whose 'eyes are homes of silent prayer?'--a
copy of De la Roche's 'Christ,' so touching in its sad and noble serenity? or some bust or
engraving of poet or hero, which shall be to us as a biography, never failing to stimulate
us in the best direction? Or shall we have a copy of that fine Mercury, who stands resting
lightly on the earth with one foot, and raised, outstretched arms, in the act of ascending
from it--the embodiment of aspiration? All these things are symbols of noble thought, and they
may belong to us as easily now as a copy of Bacon or Shakspeare. Here is great cause for rejoicing.
Fantastic furniture, old china, and such-like things, will one day be superseded in drawing-rooms,
just as the old, barbarously-coloured 'Noahs' and 'Abrahams' of the cottage may now easily
be by pictures in better perspective and purer taste. Then there will be danger of crowding
rooms with good things--a great mistake also: an ornament should have a simple background,
should 'shew like metal on a sullen ground.' Rooms, from temptations of wealth or taste, should
never become mere pretty curiosity-shops. Forbearance and self-control are necessary in this
as in all things. 'To gild refined gold' is worse than useless.

Let us not question the need of such thought and care for mere dwelling-places. Are not rooms
the nurseries of the young spirits among us, the resting-places of all others on their pilgrimage?
And because everything is important that influences and educates the soul, love and thought
shall work together in our homes, and create in all details something akin to the universal
harmony they should typify.

INVESTMENTS!

What is to be done with the money which is realised in the ordinary course of affairs, has
latterly become a kind of puzzle. There it goes on accumulating as a result of industry; but
what then? A person can but eat one dinner in the day; two or three coats are about all he
needs for the outer man; he can but live in one house at a time; and, in short, after paying
away all he needs to pay, he finds that he has not a little over for--investment. Since our
young days, this word investment has come remarkably into use. All are looking for investments;
and as supply ordinarily follows demand, up there rise, at periodical intervals, an amazing
number of plans for the said investments--in plain English, relieving people of their money.
A few years ago, railways were the favourite absorbents. Railways, on a somewhat more honest
principle, may possibly again have their day. Meanwhile, the man of money has opened up to
him a very comprehensive field for the investment of his cash: he can send it upon any mission
he chooses; he may dig turf with it, or he may dig gold; he may catch whales, or he may catch
sprats, or do fifty other things; but if he see it again after having relinquished his hold
upon it, he must have exercised more discretion than falls to the lot of the majority of Her
Majesty's lieges in their helter-skelter steeple-chasing after 20 per cent. Our present business,
however, is not with legitimate speculation, but with schemes in which no discretion is exercised,
or by which discretion is set to sleep--in a word, with bubble investments; and the history
of many of the most promising of these speculations may be read in the following brief and
not altogether mythical biography, of an interesting specimen which suddenly fell into a declining
way, and is supposed to have lately departed this life.

