DEDICATION

To Clifton College

PREPARER'S NOTE

This was typed from an Everyman's Library edition. It seems that Dakyns died before Cyropaedia
could be included as the planned fourth and final volume of his series, "The Works of Xenophon,"
published in the 1890s by Macmillan and Co. The works in that series can all be found in Project
Gutenberg under their individual titles.

INTRODUCTION

A very few words may suffice by way of introduction to this translation of the Cyropaedia.

These tests may be safely applied to the work of Mr. Dakyns. An accomplished Greek scholar,
for many years a careful and sympathetic student of Xenophon, and possessing a rare mastery
of English idiom, he was unusually well equipped for the work of a translator. And his version
will, as I venture to think, be found to satisfy those requirements of an effective translation
which Professor Jowett laid down. It is faithful to the tone and spirit of the original, and
it has the literary quality of a good piece of original English writing. For these and other
reasons it should prove attractive and interesting reading for the average Englishman.

Xenophon, it must be admitted, is not, like Plato, Thucydides, or Demosthenes, one of the greatest
of Greek writers, but there are several considerations which should commend him to the general
reader. He is more representative of the type of man whom the ordinary Englishman specially
admires and respects, than any other of the Greek authors usually read.

An Athenian of good social position, endowed with a gift of eloquence and of literary style,
a pupil of Socrates, a distinguished soldier, an historian, an essayist, a sportsman, and a
lover of the country, he represents a type of country gentleman greatly honoured in English
life, and this should ensure a favourable reception for one of his chief works admirably rendered
into idiomatic English. And the substance of the Cyropaedia, which is in fact a political romance,
describing the education of the ideal ruler, trained to rule as a benevolent despot over his
admiring and willing subjects, should add a further element of enjoyment for the reader of
this famous book in its English garb.

                                                          J. HEREFORD.

EDITOR'S NOTE

In preparing this work for the press, I came upon some notes made by Mr. Dakyns on the margin
of his Xenophon. These were evidently for his own private use, and are full of scholarly colloquialisms,
impromptu words humorously invented for the need of the moment, and individual turns of phrase,
such as the references to himself under his initials in small letters, "hgd." Though plainly
not intended for publication, the notes are so vivid and illuminating as they stand that I
have shrunk from putting them into a more formal dress, believing that here, as in the best
letters, the personal element is bound up with what is most fresh and living in the comment,
most characteristic of the writer, and most delightful both to those who knew him and to those
who will wish they had. I have, therefore, only altered a word here and there, and added a
note or two of my own (always in square brackets), where it seemed necessary for the sake of
clearness.

                                                              F. M. S.

CYROPAEDIA

THE EDUCATION OF CYRUS

BOOK I

[C.1] We have had occasion before now to reflect how often democracies have been overthrown
by the desire for some other type of government, how often monarchies and oligarchies have
been swept away by movements of the people, how often would-be despots have fallen in their
turn, some at the outset by one stroke, while whose who have maintained their rule for ever
so brief a season are looked upon with wonder as marvels of sagacity and success.

The same lesson, we had little doubt, was to be learnt from the family: the household might
be great or small--even the master of few could hardly count on the obedience of his little
flock. [2] And so, one idea leading to another, we came to shape our reflexions thus: Drovers
may certainly be called the rulers of their cattle and horse-breeders the rulers of their studs--all
herdsmen, in short, may reasonably be considered the governors of the animals they guard. If,
then, we were to believe the evidence of our senses, was it not obvious that flocks and herds
were more ready to obey their keepers than men their rulers? Watch the cattle wending their
way wherever their herdsmen guide them, see them grazing in the pastures where they are sent
and abstaining from forbidden grounds, the fruit of their own bodies they yield to their master
to use as he thinks best; nor have we ever seen one flock among them all combining against
their guardian, either to disobey him or to refuse him the absolute control of their produce.
On the contrary, they are more apt to show hostility against other animals than against the
owner who derives advantage from them. But with man the rule is converse; men unite against
none so readily as against those whom they see attempting to rule over them. [3] As long, therefore,
as we followed these reflexions, we could not but conclude that man is by nature fitted to
govern all creatures, except his fellow-man. But when we came to realise the character of Cyrus
the Persian, we were led to a change of mind: here is a man, we said, who won for himself obedience
from thousands of his fellows, from cities and tribes innumerable: we must ask ourselves whether
the government of men is after all an impossible or even a difficult task, provided one set
about it in the right way. Cyrus, we know, found the readiest obedience in his subjects, though
some of them dwelt at a distance which it would take days and months to traverse, and among
them were men who had never set eyes on him, and for the matter of that could never hope to
do so, and yet they were willing to obey him. [4] Cyrus did indeed eclipse all other monarchs,
before or since, and I include not only those who have inherited their power, but those who
have won empire by their own exertions. How far he surpassed them all may be felt if we remember
that no Scythian, although the Scythians are reckoned by their myriads, has ever succeeded
in dominating a foreign nation; indeed the Scythian would be well content could he but keep
his government unbroken over his own tribe and people. The same is true of the Thracians and
the Illyrians, and indeed of all other nations within our ken; in Europe, at any rate, their
condition is even now one of independence, and of such separation as would seem to be permanent.
Now this was the state in which Cyrus found the tribes and peoples of Asia when, at the head
of a small Persian force, he started on his career. The Medes and the Hyrcanians accepted his
leadership willingly, but it was through conquest that he won Syria, Assyria, Arabia, Cappadocia,
the two Phrygias, Lydia, Caria, Phoenicia, and Babylonia. Then he established his rule over
the Bactrians, Indians, and Cilicians, over the Sakians, Paphlagonians, and Magadidians, over
a host of other tribes the very names of which defy the memory of the chronicler; and last
of all he brought the Hellenes in Asia beneath his sway, and by a descent on the seaboard Cyprus
and Egypt also.

[5] It is obvious that among this congeries of nations few, if any, could have spoken the same
language as himself, or understood one another, but none the less Cyrus was able so to penetrate
that vast extent of country by the sheer terror of his personality that the inhabitants were
prostrate before him: not one of them dared lift hand against him. And yet he was able, at
the same time, to inspire them all with so deep a desire to please him and win his favour that
all they asked was to be guided by his judgment and his alone. Thus he knit to himself a complex
of nationalities so vast that it would have taxed a man's endurance merely to traverse his
empire in any one direction, east or west or south or north, from the palace which was its
centre. For ourselves, considering his title to our admiration proved, we set ourselves to
inquire what his parentage might have been and his natural parts, and how he was trained and
brought up to attain so high a pitch of excellence in the government of men. And all we could
learn from others about him or felt we might infer for ourselves we will here endeavour to
set forth.

[C.2] The father of Cyrus, so runs the story, was Cambyses, a king of the Persians, and one
of the Perseidae, who look to Perseus as the founder of their race. His mother, it is agreed,
was Mandane, the daughter of Astyages, king of the Medes. Of Cyrus himself, even now in the
songs and stories of the East the record lives that nature made him most fair to look upon,
and set in his heart the threefold love of man, of knowledge, and of honour. He would endure
all labours, he would undergo all dangers, for the sake of glory. [2] Blest by nature with
such gifts of soul and body, his memory lives to this day in the mindful heart of ages. It
is true that he was brought up according to the laws and customs of the Persians, and of these
laws it must be noted that while they aim, as laws elsewhere, at the common weal, their guiding
principle is far other than that which most nations follow. Most states permit their citizens
to bring up their own children at their own discretion, and allow the grown men to regulate
their own lives at their own will, and then they lay down certain prohibitions, for example,
not to pick and steal, not to break into another man's house, not to strike a man unjustly,
not to commit adultery, not to disobey the magistrate, and so forth; and on the transgressor
they impose a penalty. [3] But the Persian laws try, as it were, to steal a march on time,
to make their citizens from the beginning incapable of setting their hearts on any wickedness
or shameful conduct whatsoever. And this is how they set about their object.

In their cities they have an open place or square dedicated to Freedom (Free Square they call
it), where stand the palace and other public buildings. From this place all goods for sale
are rigidly excluded, and all hawkers and hucksters with their yells and cries and vulgarities.
They must go elsewhere, so that their clamour may not mingle with and mar the grace and orderliness
of the educated classes. [4] This square, where the public buildings stand, is divided into
four quarters which are assigned as follows: one for the boys, another for the youths, a third
for the grown men, and the last for those who are past the age of military service. The law
requires all the citizens to present themselves at certain times and seasons in their appointed
places. The lads and the grown men must be there at daybreak; the elders may, as a rule, choose
their own time, except on certain fixed days, when they too are expected to present themselves
like the rest. Moreover, the young men are bound to sleep at night round the public buildings,
with their arms at their side; only the married men among them are exempt, and need not be
on duty at night unless notice has been given, though even in their case frequent absence is
thought unseemly. [5] Over each of these divisions are placed twelve governors, twelve being
the number of the Persian tribes. The governors of the boys are chosen from the elders, and
those are appointed who are thought best fitted to make the best of their lads: the governors
of the youths are selected from the grown men, and on the same principle; and for the grown
men themselves and their own governors; the choice falls on those who will, it is hoped, make
them most prompt to carry out their appointed duties, and fulfil the commands imposed by the
supreme authority. Finally, the elders themselves have presidents of their own, chosen to see
that they too perform their duty to the full.

[6] We will now describe the services demanded from the different classes, and thus it will
appear how the Persians endeavour to improve their citizens. The boys go to school and give
their time to learning justice and righteousness: they will tell you they come for that purpose,
and the phrase is as natural with them as it is for us to speak of lads learning their letters.
The masters spend the chief part of the day in deciding cases for their pupils: for in this
boy-world, as in the grown-up world without, occasions of indictment are never far to seek.
There will be charges, we know, of picking and stealing, of violence, of fraud, of calumny,
and so forth. The case is heard and the offender, if shown to be guilty, is punished. [7] Nor
does he escape who is found to have accused one of his fellows unfairly. And there is one charge
the judges do not hesitate to deal with, a charge which is the source of much hatred among
grown men, but which they seldom press in the courts, the charge of ingratitude. The culprit
convicted of refusing to repay a debt of kindness when it was fully in his power meets with
severe chastisement. They reason that the ungrateful man is the most likely to forget his duty
to the gods, to his parents, to his fatherland, and his friends. Shamelessness, they hold,
treads close on the heels of ingratitude, and thus ingratitude is the ringleader and chief
instigator to every kind of baseness. [8] Further, the boys are instructed in temperance and
self-restraint, and they find the utmost help towards the attainment of this virtue in the
self-respecting behaviour of their elders, shown them day by day. Then they are taught to obey
their rulers, and here again nothing is of greater value than the studied obedience to authority
manifested by their elders everywhere. Continence in meat and drink is another branch of instruction,
and they have no better aid in this than, first, the example of their elders, who never withdraw
to satisfy their carnal cravings until those in authority dismiss them, and next, the rule
that the boys must take their food, not with their mother but with their master, and not till
the governor gives the sign. They bring from home the staple of their meal, dry bread with
nasturtium for a relish, and to slake their thirst they bring a drinking-cup, to dip in the
running stream. In addition, they are taught to shoot with the bow and to fling the javelin.

The lads follow their studies till the age of sixteen or seventeen, and then they take their
places as young men.

[9] After that they spend their time as follows. For ten years they are bound to sleep at night
round the public buildings, as we said before, and this for two reasons, to guard the community
and to practise self-restraint; because that season of life, the Persians conceive, stands
most in need of care. During the day they present themselves before the governors for service
to the state, and, whenever necessary, they remain in a body round the public buildings. Moreover,
when the king goes out to hunt, which he will do several times a month, he takes half the company
with him, and each man must carry bow and arrows, a sheathed dagger, or "sagaris," slung beside
the quiver, a light shield, and two javelins, one to hurl and the other to use, if need be,
at close quarters. [10] The reason of this public sanction for the chase is not far to seek;
the king leads just as he does in war, hunting in person at the head of the field, and making
his men follow, because it is felt that the exercise itself is the best possible training for
the needs of war. It accustoms a man to early rising; it hardens him to endure head and cold;
it teaches him to march and to run at the top of his speed; he must perforce learn to let fly
arrow and javelin the moment the quarry is across his path; and, above all, the edge of his
spirit must needs be sharpened by encountering any of the mightier beasts: he must deal his
stroke when the creature closes, and stand on guard when it makes its rush: indeed, it would
be hard to find a case in war that has not its parallel in the chase. [11] But to proceed:
the young men set out with provisions that are ampler, naturally, than the boys' fare, but
otherwise the same. During the chase itself they would not think of breaking their fast, but
if a halt is called, to beat up the game, or for any hunter's reason, then they will make,
as it were, a dinner of their breakfast, and, hunting again on the morrow till dinner-time,
they will count the two days as one, because they have only eaten one day's food. This they
do in order that, if the like necessity should arise in war, they may be found equal to it.
As relish to their bread these young men have whatever they may kill in the chase, or failing
that, nasturtium like the boys. And if one should ask how they can enjoy the meal with nasturtium
for their only condiment and water for their only drink, let him bethink himself how sweet
barley bread and wheaten can taste to the hungry man and water to the thirsty. [12] As for
the young men who are left at home, they spend their time in shooting and hurling the javelin,
and practising all they learnt as boys, in one long trial of skill. Beside this, public games
are open to them and prizes are offered; and the tribe which can claim the greatest number
of lads distinguished for skill and courage and faithfulness is given the meed of praise from
all the citizens, who honour, not only their present governor, but the teacher who trained
them when they were boys. Moreover, these young men are also employed by the magistrates if
garrison work needs to be done or if malefactors are to be tracked or robbers run down, or
indeed on any errand which calls for strength of limb and fleetness of foot. Such is the life
of the youth. But when the ten years are accomplished they are classed as grown men. [13] And
from this time forth for five-and-twenty years they live as follows.

First they present themselves, as in youth, before the magistrates for service to the state
wherever there is need for strength and sound sense combined. If an expedition be on foot the
men of this grade march out, not armed with the bow or the light shield any longer, but equipped
with what are called the close-combat arms, a breastplate up to the throat, a buckler on the
left arm (just as the Persian warrior appears in pictures), and for the right hand a dagger
or a sword. Lastly, it is from this grade that all the magistrates are appointed except the
teachers for the boys. But when the five-and-twenty years are over and the men have reached
the age of fifty years or more, then they take rank as elders, and the title is deserved. [14]
These elders no longer go on military service beyond the frontier; they stay at home and decide
all cases, public and private both. Even capital charges are left to their decision, and it
is they who choose all the magistrates. If a youth or a grown man breaks the law he is brought
into court by the governors of his tribe, who act as suitors in the case, aided by any other
citizen who pleases. The cause is heard before the elders and they pronounce judgment; and
the man who is condemned is disenfranchised for the rest of his days.

[15] And now, to complete the picture of the whole Persian policy, I will go back a little.
With the help of what has been said before, the account may now be brief; the Persians are
said to number something like one hundred and twenty thousand men: and of these no one is by
law debarred from honour or office. On the contrary, every Persian is entitled to send his
children to the public schools of righteousness and justice. As a fact, all who can afford
to bring up their children without working do send them there: those who cannot must forego
the privilege. A lad who has passed through a public school has a right to go and take his
place among the youths, but those who have not gone through the first course may not join them.
In the same way the youths who have fulfilled the duties of their class are entitled eventually
to rank with the men, and to share in office and honour: but they must first spend their full
time among the youths; if not, they go no further. Finally, those who as grown men have lived
without reproach may take their station at last among the elders. Thus these elders form a
college, every member of which has passed through the full circle of noble learning; and this
is that Persian polity and that Persian training which, in their belief, can win them the flower
of excellence. [16] And even to this day signs are left bearing witness to that ancient temperance
of theirs and the ancient discipline that preserved it. To this day it is still considered
shameful for a Persian to spit in public, or wipe the nose, or show signs of wind, or be seen
going apart for his natural needs. And they could not keep to this standard unless they were
accustomed to a temperate diet, and were trained to exercise and toil, so that the humours
of the body were drawn off in other ways. Hitherto we have spoken of the Persians as a whole:
we will now go back to our starting-point and recount the deeds of Cyrus from his childhood.

[C.3] Until he was twelve years old or more, Cyrus was brought up in the manner we have described,
and showed himself to be above all his fellows in his aptitude for learning and in the noble
and manly performance of every duty. But about this time, Astyages sent for his daughter and
her son, desiring greatly to see him because he had heard how noble and fair he was. So it
fell out that Mandane came to Astyages, bringing her son Cyrus with her. [2] And as soon as
they met, the boy, when he heard that Astyages was his mother's father, fell on his neck and
kissed him without more ado, like the loving lad nature had made him, as though he had been
brought up at his grandfather's side from the first and the two of them had been playmates
of old. Then he looked closer and saw that the king's eyes were stencilled and his cheeks painted,
and that he wore false curls after the fashion of the Medes in those days (for these adornments,
and the purple robes, the tunics, the necklaces, and the bracelets, they are all Median first
and last, not Persian; the Persian, as you find him at home even now-a-days, still keeps to
his plainer dress and his plainer style of living.) The boy, seeing his grandfather's splendour,
kept his eyes fixed on him, and cried, "Oh, mother, how beautiful my grandfather is!" Then
his mother asked him which he thought the handsomer, his father or his grandfather, and he
answered at once, "My father is the handsomest of all the Persians, but my grandfather much
the handsomest of all the Medes I ever set eyes on, at home or abroad." [3] At that Astyages
drew the child to his heart, and gave him a beautiful robe and bracelets and necklaces in sign
of honour, and when he rode out, the boy must ride beside him on a horse with a golden bridle,
just like King Astyages himself. And Cyrus, who had a soul as sensitive to beauty as to honour,
was pleased with the splendid robe, and overjoyed at learning to ride, for a horse is a rare
sight in Persia, a mountainous country, and one little suited to the breed.

[4] Now Cyrus and his mother sat at meat with the king, and Astyages, wishing the lad to enjoy
the feast and not regret his home, plied him with dainties of every sort. At that, so says
the story, Cyrus burst out, "Oh, grandfather, what trouble you must give yourself reaching
for all these dishes and tasting all these wonderful foods!" "Ah, but," said Astyages, "is
not this a far better meal than you ever had in Persia?" Thereupon, as the tale runs, Cyrus
answered, "Our way, grandfather, is much shorter than yours, and much simpler. We are hungry
and wish to be fed, and bread and meat brings us where we want to be at once, but you Medes,
for all your haste, take so many turns and wind about so much it is a wonder if you ever find
your way to the goal that we have reached long ago." [5] "Well, my lad," said his grandfather,
"we are not at all averse to the length of the road: taste the dishes for yourself and see
how good they are." "One thing I do see," the boy said, "and that is that you do not quite
like them yourself." And when Astyages asked him how he felt so sure of that, Cyrus answered,
"Because when you touch an honest bit of bread you never wipe your hands, but if you take one
of these fine kickshaws you turn to your napkin at once, as if you were angry to find your
fingers soiled." [6] "Well and good, my lad, well and good," said the king, "only feast away
yourself and make good cheer, and we shall send you back to Persia a fine strong fellow." And
with the word he had dishes of meat and game set before his grandson. The boy was taken aback
by their profusion, and exclaimed, "Grandfather, do you give me all this for myself, to do
what I like with it?" "Certainly I do," said the king. [7] Whereupon, without more ado, the
boy Cyrus took first one dish and then another and gave them to the attendants who stood about
his grandfather, and with each gift he made a little speech: "That is for you, for so kindly
teaching me to ride;" "And that is for you, in return for the javelin you gave me, I have got
it still;" "And this is for you, because you wait on my grandfather so prettily;" "And this
for you, sir, because you honour my mother." And so on until he had got rid of all the meat
he had been given. [8] "But you do not give a single piece to Sacas, my butler," quoth the
grandfather, "and I honour him more than all the rest." Now this Sacas, as one may guess, was
a handsome fellow, and he had the right to bring before the king all who desired audience,
to keep them back if he thought the time unseasonable. But Cyrus, in answer to his grandfather's
question retorted eagerly, like a lad who did not know what fear meant, "And why should you
honour him so much, grandfather?" Then Astyages laughed and said, "Can you not see how prettily
he mixes the cup, and with what a grace he serves the wine?" And indeed, these royal cup-bearers
are neat-handed at their task, mixing the bowl with infinite elegance, and pouring the wine
into the beakers without spilling a drop, and when they hand the goblet they poise it deftly
between thumb and finger for the banqueter to take. [9] "Now, grandfather," said the boy, "tell
Sacas to give me the bowl, and let me pour out the wine as prettily as he if I can, and win
your favour." So the king bade the butler hand him the bowl, and Cyrus took it and mixed the
wine just as he had seen Sacas do, and then, showing the utmost gravity and the greatest deftness
and grace, he brought the goblet to his grandfather and offered it with such an air that his
mother and Astyages, too, laughed outright, and then Cyrus burst out laughing also, and flung
his arms round his grandfather and kissed him, crying, "Sacas, your day is done! I shall oust
you from your office, you may be sure.