More wood was piled upon the little fire, and they waited not very patiently for hot ashes.
The eggs were rolled up in large grape leaves, and fastened with little twigs. The sun went
down, and the fire-light began to shine brightly on the overhanging boughs and the watchful
faces of the children. Finally Kitty said it must be time, and proceeded to push away the blazing
brands, and to roll the eggs in among the glowing ashes. She had just covered them, after a
fashion, with the stick she used for a poker, and was saying to Ted they would soon be done,
when something came crashing along through the brush, and there was a man with a scratched
face and a torn coat, and a gun on his shoulder, standing before them.

"Oh, papa," said Ted, after taking a second look at him, "mayn't we stay until the pattridge
eggs are done? 'Cause we're so hungry."

"Oh, you--rascals," was all the father could say; and he was either very tired, or else Kitty
rushed upon him and hugged his knees too vigorously, for he sank right down on the ground,
and commenced wiping his face, and his eyes seemed to need a great deal of wiping.

"We didn't mean to camp out, papa," said Kitty, softly. "We only wanted to go home the nearest
way, and we couldn't find it at all; and so when we found we were lost a little bit, we staid
right where we were, so's not to get any more lost. Wasn't that right, papa? We knew you'd
find us."

"Yes, an' we knew you wouldn't come hollerin' round like crazy Ingins. An' isn't the eggs done,
Kit?" said Ted.

"Here's things to eat--things grandma fixed for you;" and the father quickly opened a little
bundle that hung at his side. "I was so glad to see you alive, and having a good time, that
I almost forgot your lunch, you poor Hottentots."

The lunch was quickly disposed of, and after drinking two swallows apiece of blackberry wine--which
grandma sent word they must do--the children "broke camp," and started for home, carrying the
eggs in a handkerchief.

"It was a good thing you started your fire, little folks. I was just going to give up the mountain,
and follow the others down to the creek, when I saw a smoke curling up, and I remembered your
weakness for bonfires, and so-- Why, bless me! I've forgotten the signal." And the happy father
took his repeating rifle from his shoulder, and fired three shots into the air.

Pop!--pop!--pop! That meant, "Found, and alive, and well." Three or four guns answered from
the valley below; and the mother and grandma, waiting and listening by the farm-house gate,
thought they had never heard such sweet music in all their lives.

Only a quarter of a mile of very rough ground was travelled before the children found themselves
trotting along in the "nearer way" they had tried to find the night before; and in an hour's
time, after being much kissed and very tenderly scolded, they were bathed and lying in their
clean, sweet beds, and Ted was sleepily saying to himself, "This is nicer'n em'grants, after all."

OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES.

BY CHARLES CARLETON COFFIN.

No. VI.

LOVEWELL'S FIGHT WITH THE PIGWACKETS.

At the southern base of the White Mountains, where the river Saco winds through green meadows,
was the home of the Pigwacket Indians. Their chief was Paugus. During the years of peace he
visited the English in Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, and was well acquainted with
the settlers, but he liked the French better.

The Jesuit Father Rale, who had converted the Kennebec Indians, made his influence felt over
all the surrounding tribes, and Paugus, through his influence, sided with the French. He could
always obtain guns, powder, and balls at Quebec and Montreal in exchange for furs.

From their wigwams on the Saco, it was easy for the Pigwackets to go down that stream to the
settlements in Maine, or going southwest to the "Smile of the Great Spirit," as they called
Lake Winnipiseogee, they could descend the Merrimac to the settlements in Massachusetts.

In 1724 the Pigwackets killed two men at Dunstable. When the alarm was given, eleven men started
after them, but the Indians discovering them, shot all but two, took their scalps, and returned
to their wigwams on the Saco, where they held a great feast over the successful raid, dancing
and howling through the night, and boasting of what they would do on the next raid.

"I will give £100 for every Indian scalp," said the Governor of Massachusetts.

The offer of such a bounty stimulated Captain John Lovewell, of Dunstable, who started with
eight men. It was midwinter, but the snow, cold, and hardship did not deter the intrepid men,
who made their way up the valley of the Merrimac, and eastward to the country of the Pigwackets.
The sun was going down, on the 20th of February, when Captain Lovewell discovered a smoke rising
above the trees. He waited till midnight, when, creeping forward alone, he could see ten Indians
asleep by a fire on the shore of a pond. He went back to his men, and all moved forward. There
was snow upon the ground, which broke the sound of their footsteps. At a signal the guns flashed,
and every Indian was killed. It was a party who had just started to fall upon the English settlements.
They had new guns, ammunition, and blankets, which they had obtained from the French in Canada.

It was a day of rejoicing in Dover when Captain Lovewell marched into the village with the
Indian scalps dangling from a pole.

"We will attack the Pigwackets in their home," said the men.

It was in April. The snow had disappeared, the trees were bursting into leaf, when Captain
Lovewell, with forty-six men, started up the valley of the Merrimac once more. Three of the
men, after marching about fifty miles, became lame and returned home. The others turned eastward,
passed Lake Winnipiseogee, and came to Ossipee Lake--a beautiful sheet of water.

One of the men was taken sick, and could not go on, and Captain Lovewell built a little fort,
and left there the surgeon and six men, with a portion of the provisions. The rest of the party,
thirty-four in all, shouldered their packs and moved on in search of the Pigwackets. No one
knew exactly where their wigwams were located, and they moved cautiously for fear of being
surprised.

Captain Lovewell was a religious man, and every morning, before starting, the soldiers kneeled
or stood reverently with uncovered heads, while the chaplain, Rev. Jonathan Frye, offered prayer.

The morning of May 19 came. They were on the shore of a pond, and the chaplain was offering
prayer, when they heard a gun, and looking across the pond they saw an Indian on a rocky point
on the other side of the pond.

"We are discovered," said Lovewell. "Shall we go on, or return?"

"We have come to find the Indians," said the young chaplain. "We have prayed God that we might
find them. We had rather die for our country than return without seeing them. If we go back,
the people will call us cowards." The company left their packs, and marched cautiously forward.

The Indians had discovered them--not the one who was shooting ducks; he did not mistrust their
presence; but a party had come upon their tracks, and were following in their rear, and took
possession of their packs.

Captain Lovewell moved toward the one Indian, who quickly fired upon the white. His gun was
loaded with shot, and Captain Lovewell and one of his men were wounded. The Indian turned to
run, but Ensign Whiting brought him down.

"We will go back to our packs," said Lovewell; but when they reached the place they found that
the Indians had seized them, and that their retreat was cut off by more than one hundred Pigwackets.
The terrible war-whoop rang through the forest, and the fight began, Indians and white men
alike sheltering themselves behind the trees and rocks, watching an opportunity to pick each
other off without exposing themselves. All day long the contest went on, the Indians howling
like tigers. The white men saw that they were outnumbered three to one. It must be victory
or death.

Lieutenant Wyman was their commander in place of Lovewell, who was mortally wounded. He was
cool and brave.

"Don't expose yourselves. Be careful of your ammunition." So cool and deliberate was the aim
of the white men that at nearly every shot an Indian fell. They suffered so severely that they
withdrew and held a powwow with their "medicine man," who was going through his incantations,
when Lieutenant Wyman, creeping up, put a bullet through him. The Indians, howling vengeance,
returned to the fight; but the white men, protected on one side by the pond, held their ground.

All through the afternoon the struggle went on.

"We will give you good quarter," shouted Paugus.

"We want no quarter, except at the muzzle of our guns," shouted Wyman.

Paugus had often been to Dunstable, and was well acquainted with John Chamberlain. They fired
at each other many times, till at last Chamberlain sent a bullet through Paugus's head, killing
him instantly.

"I am a dead man," said Solomon Keys. "I am wounded in three places." He crawled down to the
shore of the pond, found an Indian canoe, and crept into it. The wind blew it out into the
lake, and he was wafted to the southern shore. The sun went down, and the Indians stole away.
Pitiable the condition of the settlers. Lovewell was dead, and also their beloved chaplain,
Jonathan Frye, who with his dying breath prayed aloud for victory; Jacob Farrar was dying;
Lieutenant Rollins and Robert Usher could not last long; eleven others were badly wounded.
There were only eighteen left. The Indians had seized their packs; they had nothing to eat;
it was twenty miles from the little fort which they had built at Ossipee; but they were victors.
They had killed sixty or more Indians, and had inflicted a defeat from which the Pigwackets
never recovered.

"Load my gun, so that, when the Indians come to scalp me, I can kill one more," said Lieutenant
Rollins.

They must leave him. Sad the parting. In the darkness, guided by the stars, they started. Four
were so badly wounded that they could not go on.

"Leave us," they said, "and save yourselves."

Twenty miles! How weary the way! They reach the fort to find it deserted. They had left seven
men there, but when the fight began one of their number fled--a coward--and informed the seven
that the party had all been cut off, not a man left. Believing that he had told the truth,
they abandoned the fort, and returned to their homes.

Nothing to eat. But it was the month of May; the squirrels were out, and they shot two and
a partridge; they caught some fish; and so were saved from starvation.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

[Begun in No. 46 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, September 14.]

WHO WAS PAUL GRAYSON?

BY JOHN HABBERTON,

AUTHOR OF "HELEN'S BABIES."

CHAPTER II.

THE FIGHT.

The afternoon session of Mr. Morton's select school was but little more promising of revelations
about the new boy than the morning had been. Most of the boys returned earlier than usual from
their respective dinners, and either hung about the school-room, staring at their new companion,
or waited at the foot of the stairs for him to come down. The attentions of the first-named
division soon became so distasteful to the new-comer that he left the room abruptly, and went
down the stairway two steps at a time. At the door he found little Benny Mallow looking up
admiringly, and determining to practice that particular method of coming down stairs the first
Saturday that he could creep unnoticed through a school-room window. But Benny was not one
of those foolish boys who forget the present while planning about the future. Paul Grayson
had barely reached the bottom step, when little Benny looked innocently up into his face, and
remarked, "Say!"

"Well?" Paul answered.

"You're the biggest boy in school," continued Benny. "I noticed it when you stood beside Appleby."

Grayson looked as if he did not exactly see that the matter was worthy of special remark.

"I," said Benny, "am the smallest boy--I am, really. If you don't believe it, look at the other
boys. I'll just run down the steps, and stand beside some of them."

"Don't take that trouble," said Grayson, pleasantly. "But what is there remarkable about my
height and your shortness?"

"Oh, nothing," said Benny, looking down with some embarrassment, and then looking up again--"only
I thought maybe 'twas a good reason why we should be friends."

"Why, so it is, little fellow," said Grayson. "I was very stupid not to understand that without
being told."

"All right, then," said Benny, evidently much relieved in mind. "Anything you want to know
I'll tell you--anything that I know myself, that is. Because I'm little, you mustn't think
I don't know everything about this town, because I do. I know where you can fish for bass in
a place that no other boy knows anything about: what do you think of that? I know a big black-walnut
tree that no other boy ever saw; of course there's no nuts on it now, but you can see last
year's husks if you like. Have you got a sister?"

Grayson suddenly looked quite sober, and answered, "No."

"I have," said Benny, "and she is the nicest girl in town. If you want to know some of the
bigger girls, I suppose you'll have to ask Appleby. What's the use of big girls, though? They
never play marbles with a fellow, or have anything to trade. Say--I hope you're not too big
to play marbles."

"Oh no," said Grayson; "I'll buy some, and we'll have a royal game."

"Don't do it," said Benny; "I've got a pocketful. Come on." And to the great disgust of all
the larger boys Benny led his new friend into the school yard, scratched a ring on the dirt,
divided his stock of marbles into two equal portions, and gave one to Grayson; then both boys
settled themselves at a most exciting game, while all the others looked on in wonder, with
which considerable envy and jealousy were mixed up.

"That Benny Mallow is putting on more airs than so little a fellow can carry; don't you think
so?" said Sam Wardwell to Ned Johnston.

"I should say so," was the reply; "and that isn't all. The new fellow isn't going to be thought
much of in this school if he's going to allow himself to belong to any youngster that chooses
to take hold of him. I'll tell you one thing: Joe Appleby's birthday party is to come off in
a few days, and I'll bet you a fish-line to a button that Master Benny won't get near enough
to it to smell the ice-cream. How will that make the little upstart feel?"

"Awful--perfectly awful," said Sam, who, being very fond of ice-cream himself, could not imagine
a more terrible revenge than Harry had suggested. Just then Bert Sharp sauntered up with his
hands in his pockets, his head craned forward as usual, and his eyes trying to get along faster
than his head.

"See here," said he, "if that new boy boards with the teacher, he's going to tell everything
he knows. I think somebody ought to let him know what he'll get if he tries that little game.
I'm not going to be told on: I have a rough enough time of it now." Bert spoke feelingly, for
he was that afternoon to remain at school until he had recited from memory four pages of history,
as a punishment for his long truancy.

"Who's going to tell him, though?" asked Sam. "It should be some fellow big enough to take
care of himself, for Grayson looks as if he could be lively."

"I'll do it myself," declared Bert, savagely; saying which he lounged over toward the ring
at which Benny and Grayson were playing. The boys had seen Bert in such a mood before, so at
once there was some whispered cautions to look out for a fight. Before Bert had been a minute
beside the ring, Grayson accidentally brushed against him as, half stooping, he followed his
alley across the ring. Bert immediately got his hands out of his pockets, and struck Grayson
a blow on the back of the neck that felled him to the ground. All the boys immediately rushed
to the spot, but before they had reached it the new pupil was on his feet, and the teacher
reached the window, bell in hand, just in time to see Grayson give Bert a blow on the chest
that caused the young man to go reeling backward, and yell "Oh!" at the top of his voice. Then
the bell rang violently, and all of the boys but Bert Sharp hurried up stairs, Grayson not
even taking the trouble to look behind him. In the scramble toward the seats Will Palmer found
a chance to whisper to Ned Johnston, "There's no nonsense about him, eh?"

And Ned replied, "He's splendid."

All of the boys seemed of Ned's opinion, for when Mr. Morton, just as Bert Sharp entered, rang
the school to order, and asked, "Who began that fight?" there was a general reply of, "Bert Sharp."

"Sharp, Grayson, step to the front," commanded the teacher.

Bert shuffled forward with a very sullen face, while Grayson stalked up so bravely that Benny
Mallow risked getting a mark by kicking Sam Wardwell's feet under the desk to attract his attention,
and then whispering, "Just look at that."

Before the teacher could speak to either of the two boys in front of him, Grayson said, "I'm
very sorry, sir, but I was knocked down for nothing, unless it was brushing against him by
mistake."

"Was that the cause, Sharp?" asked Mr. Morton.

Bert hung his head a little lower, which is a way that all boys have when they are in the wrong;
so the teacher did not question him any farther, but said:

"Boys, Grayson is a stranger here. I know him to be a boy of good habits and good manners,
and I give you my word that if you have any trouble with him, you will have to begin it yourselves.
And if you expect to be gentlemen when you grow up, you must learn now to treat strangers as
you would like to be treated if away from your own homes. Grayson, Sharp, go to your seats."

"May I speak to Sharp, sir?" asked Grayson.

"Yes," said Mr. Morton.

"I'm sorry I hit you," said the new boy. "Will you shake hands and be friends?"

Bert looked up suspiciously without raising his head, but Grayson's hand was outstretched,
and as Bert did not know what else to do, he put out his own hand, and then the two late enemies
returned to their seats, Bert looking less bad-tempered than usual, and Grayson looking quite
sober.

Somehow at the afternoon recess every boy treated Grayson as if he had known him for years,
and no one seemed to be jealous when Grayson invited Bert to play marbles with him, and insisted
on his late adversary taking the first shot. But the teacher's remarks about Grayson had only
increased the curiosity of the boys about their new comrade, and when Sam Wardwell remarked
that old Mrs. Battle, with whom the teacher and his pupil boarded, bought groceries nearly
every evening at his father's store, and he would just lounge about during the rest of the
afternoon and ask her about Grayson when she came in, at least six other boys' offered to sit
on a board pile near the store and wait for information.

As for Grayson, he sat in the school-room writing while the teacher waited, for more than an
hour after the general dismissal, to hear Bert Sharp recite those detestable four pages of
history, and Bert was a great deal slower at his task than he would have been if he had not
had to wonder why Grayson had to do so much writing.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

HOW A CRAB CHANGES HIS CLOTHES.

BY ALLAN FORMAN.

"Say, now, you leave my dinner alone, or I'll tell mamma."

"You can tell, if you have a mind to. I don't care, tell-tale."

No, it was not children that I heard quarrelling; it was only two little crabs. Children never
speak so crossly to each other; but those two little crabs scolded and bit down there in the
water until-- But I am getting ahead of my story. I'll tell you how it was.

I had been out fishing, and as the sun became too hot, I rowed my boat to the shore under the
shade of the trees, and sat thinking. I looked down into the water, and saw a little crab holding
a clam shell under his mouth with his claw, and eating as fast as he could, at the same time
turning his queer, bulging eyes in all directions to see that he would not be disturbed. But
soon another crab came up, and tried to snatch away the clam shell. Then ensued the conversation
which I have already quoted. I dropped a piece of clam into the water, and the new-comer seized
it. He scuttled away under a piece of sea-weed, and cried out in triumph:

"Aha! greedy, you didn't get it, and it is much better than your old shell. Don't you wish
you had it?"

"I'll change with you," said the other. "Just see this blue on the edge of my shell. Ain't
it lovely?"

"Change! I guess not. Who cares for the blue? You can't eat the blue."

"Of course you can't eat it, but it is pretty. However, there is no use in talking to you about
it; you have no love for the beautiful," said the other, tauntingly.

"You needn't put on so many airs. I'm bigger than you are, anyway," snarled the first.

"You won't be long, for I'm growing every day."

"Children! children! what is the matter?" asked the old mamma crab, who just appeared on the scene.

"Mamma, he tried to get my din--"

"I didn't; I only wanted--"

"He's a mean, horrid old thing, and I don't--"

"Why, children," interrupted the old crab, "I am ashamed of you. What is the matter?"

"He tried to take away my dinner," said one.

"He said I wasn't growing big," said the other.

"That did not stop your growth, did it?" said mamma.

"No--o," drawled the little one.

"And now," she continued, "I want you to behave yourselves. Stop such silly quarrelling. You
act so much like boys and girls that I am ashamed of you."

"Say, mamma, my clothes are getting too tight for me, and I've bursted a seam in the back of
my coat," said one of the youngsters, after a short pause.

"That is all right," answered mamma, assuringly; "you are only going to 'shed.'"

"Am I going to be all soft and helpless, like papa was, and then be taken away and not come
back any more?"

"Oh no, I hope not. You must find a quiet place, and hide until you can take care of yourself,"
answered mamma.

Accordingly the young crab wandered around, and found a nice quiet place under the shadow of
a large log; here he half buried himself in the mud, and commenced the operation of changing
his clothes. He swelled himself out until the upper shell separated from the lower, then worked
his claws slowly backward and forward, and expanded and contracted the muscles of his body;
little by little he emerged from his shell, and finally, with one effort, he freed himself
entirely from his old clothes. He lay back, exhausted by his exertions. While the crab is soft
it is perfectly helpless, and it can be handled without fear of bites. When it first emerges
from its shell it is covered with a skin as soft and delicate as yours, but if left undisturbed
it will soon harden. If taken out of the water and kept in damp sea-weed, the process of hardening
can be delayed for three or four days, when it dies of starvation, as it can eat nothing while
soft, and that is the way in which it is brought to the market. But the little crab I saw was
fortunate enough not to be disturbed. He lay perfectly still, and in about an hour, if you
could have put your finger on his back, you would have felt that it had grown stiff and rough;
in between three or four hours the shell reaches the stage known as "paper shell." It is hard
and coarse, like brown paper, and the crab begins to show signs of liveliness, and in about
seven hours there is no perceptible difference between our recently reclothed crab and his
hard brothers and sisters; but if you should catch him you would find him to be lighter in
weight, and watery when boiled, and the fat, which in a healthy crab is of a bright yellow
color, like the yolk of an egg, is a greenish-brown. But no one had a chance to see the color
of the fat in the crab which I was watching, for just as he started to move, a great toad-fish
came along and swallowed him at one mouthful.

HALF AFRAID.

THE INVENTION OF STEEL PENS.

According to the following extract from a manuscript document in the library of Aix-la-Chapelle,
entitled "Historical Chronicle of Aix-la-Chapelle, Second Book, year 1748," edited by the writer
to the Mayoralty, "Johann Janssen," it would appear that the invention of steel pens is of
older date than is commonly supposed. The paper referred to says: "Just at the meeting of the
Congress I may without boasting claim the honor of having invented new pens.

OUT IN THE STORM.

BY SIDNEY DAYRE.

"That story about the baby in the storm? Oh yes, I'll tell you all about it. See, there's the
scar on his dear little forehead yet--he'll carry it all his life, they say--but I shall never
get over being thankful he came out of it so much better than I did, the darling."

And Janet glanced at her poor crooked arm as she settled herself more comfortably for a long talk.

"This was the way it came about. Mother said to me one Saturday afternoon, 'Janet, I am going
over to the village; I will take the little girls with me, and I want you to take good care
of Harry till I come back.'

"This arrangement did not suit me at all. I had other plans for the afternoon, and I said,
'But, mother, I promised Mary Hathaway I would go down there this afternoon. She is going to
show me a new stitch for my embroidery.'

"'I don't like to interfere with you, dear,' mother said, 'but it seems to me you have been
running there quite often this week, and I must have your help now.'

"This was true, but it made no difference in the fact of my wanting to go again.

"'Can't Bridget take care of him?' I said.

"'No, she has too much else to do.'

"'I hate being tied to babies all the time,' I snarled. 'I think we might keep a nurse as well
as the Hathaways. Mary never has to be bothered with the young ones.' Mother looked at me with
a look which begged for something better from me, but I kept the scowl on my face till I saw
them drive from the gate. She said good-by to me with a loving smile, which faded out, as I
would not return it. Even when I saw three hands waved to me as they turned the corner, some
ugly thing at my heart kept my hand down, although half a minute later I would have given anything
for a chance of answering mother's smile.

"I carried baby out into the grove at the back of the house, and dumped him into the hammock,
feeling cross and miserable enough. He sat there cooing and crowing and laughing in a way which
would have put a better temper into any one but me. I sat on the ground beside him, fussing
away at my embroidery, but I could not get it right, and I got crosser and crosser. At last
Harry stretched over toward me, and took rather a rough grasp of one of my ears and a good
handful of hair with it. He did it to pull my face around for a kiss, but as his pretty face
came against mine with a little bump, I jumped up and spoke sharply to him. I laid him down
with a shake, saying, 'Go to sleep now, you little tease.'

"He put up a grieved lip, and sobbed as I swung him. It was about the time of his afternoon
nap, and he was asleep in a few minutes.

