Wine is bottled in quarts, pints, and even half-pints, and may be had at some institutions
even in glasses: it is not needless to observe, moreover, that there is no necessity either
of fashion or regulation to drink it at all. At an inn, a bottle of wine must be ordered for
the "good of the house," that the waiter may not despise you and be surly: that, in short,
the guest may be tolerably accommodated in other matters; although, perhaps, the wine itself
(wretched stuff generally at inns) is his abhorrence--though he may never drink any thing but
water, and may send the decanter away untouched--the tax must be paid. Besides this entertainment
for the grosser senses, the more refined appetites are considered. In some clubs, the "Travellers"
for instance, a library is provided; and at most of them, even the most unintellectual, a library
of reference is supplied. Here all the periodicals of the day are laid upon the tables--both
those of Great Britain and of the continent, together with the newspapers, metropolitan and
provincial, and in some instances the political journals of Paris. This part of the house may
be considered the general resort of the gossippers and quidnuncs; and here, or in other more
commodious places, materials for writing, paper, pens, lights, &c. are found. Drawing-rooms,
one or more, are next to be mentioned--here the members take their tea or their ease; and where
cards are played, this is the scene of operation. A billiard-room is an agreeable addition
to the accommodation of the society's house, and several of the inferior apartments are always
devoted to serve as dressing-rooms. It is clear, that a bachelor wants nothing beyond this
but a bed; if he chooses to live in this sort of public privacy he may; and should he be only
a sojourner in town, the convenience of a resort of this kind wherein he may make his appointments,
receive and write his letters, see society, take his dinner, spend his evening, if not otherwise
engaged, over the books, the newspapers, or a rubber of whist, and do all but sleep--a bed
in the neighbourhood may supply the article of repose.--Thus all physical wants, and many social
ones, are abundantly, and even luxuriously supplied.--London Magazine.

[While upon "clubs," we may as well advert to the prospectus of "The Literary Club," which
has reached us since our last. It professes to be "associated for the assistance of men of
letters, the development of talent, and the furtherance of the interests of literature." It
not only aims at charitable provision for the weaknesses and infirmities of nature, but anticipates
"harmony and friendship" among literary men, and "as little as possible on any system of exclusion."
This is as it should be; but we fear the workings and conflicts of passion and interest are
still too strong to admit of such harmony among the sons of genius. Authorship is becoming,
if not already become, too much of a trade or craft to admit of such a pacificatory scheme:
but the object of the association is one of the highest importance to literature, and we heartily
wish it success.--ED. MIRROR.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH AND FRENCH.

Why are the English so fond of clubs, corporate bodies, joint-stock companies, and large associations
of all kinds?--Because they are the most unsociable set of people in the world; for being mostly
at variance with each other, they are glad to get any one else to join and be on their side;
having no spontaneous attraction, they are forced to fasten themselves into the machine of
society; and each holds out in his individual shyness and reserve, till he is carried away
by the crowd, and borne with a violent, but welcome, shock against some other mass of aggregate
prejudice or self-interest. The English join together to get rid of their sharp points and
sense of uncomfortable peculiarity. Hence their clubs, their mobs, their sects, their parties,
their spirit of co-operation, and previous understanding in every thing. An English mob is
a collection of violent and headstrong humours, acting with double force from each man's natural
self-will, and the sense of opposition to others; and the same may be said of the nation at
large. The French unite and separate more easily; and therefore do not collect into such formidable
masses, and act with such unity and tenacity of purpose. It is the same with their ideas, which
easily join together, and easily part company, but do not form large or striking masses; and
hence the French are full of wit and fancy, but without imagination or principle. The French
are governed by fashion, the English by cabal. London Weekly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROTESTANT BURIAL-GROUND AT ROME.

The Cemeterio degli Inglesi, or the Protestant burial-ground, stretches calmly and beautifully
below the Pyramid of Cestius. The site was admirably chosen,--nothing can be more poetically
and religiously sepulchral than this most attractive spot. It is worth a thousand churches.
No one can stand long there without feeling in full descent upon his spirit the very best influences
of the grave. The rich, red, ruinous battlements of the city, broken only by the calm and solid
unity of the Pyramid; the clustering foliage beginning to brown on the ancient towers of the
entrance; the deep, still, blue sky; the fluttering leaves of the vines which floated around,
as one by one they dropped from the branches; the freshness of the green mounds at my feet,--these
and a thousand other features, fully felt at the time, but untranslateable to writing, conveyed
precisely that philosophy of Death which the poet and sculptor have more than once attempted
to breathe over their most enchanting works, and which here seems an emanation from every object
which you feel or see. I would place in this spot their Genius of Repose, that beautiful statue
which joins its hands indolently on its head, and casts its melancholy eyes for ever towards
the earth; that statue, so beautiful that it has been often confounded with the Grecian Eros,
or the Celestial Love, and is, in itself, the best type of the messenger who is one day to
lead us gently from the heat and toils of this world, into the coolness and tranquillity of
the next. Every thing here is in unison with these thoughts. At a few paces distant from the
Pyramid, and adjoining the wall, the Cippi and funeral Soroi of the Strangers are to be seen.
The bright verdure and the bright marbles, the classical purity of the monuments, the desert
air, the austere solemnity of every thing about me, came with new force upon my imagination.
I walked slowly amongst the tombs, and tried to decipher the inscriptions. The dead are of
various nations,--English, American, but principally German. Sometimes a cluster of cypresses
shadowed the tomb--sometimes a fair flowering shrub had twined around it. The epitaphs were
written with elegance always; at times with the deepest tenderness and beauty. Each had his
short history, each his melancholy interest and adventure. Here was the man of science and
literature, who came to lay down his head, after a painful and varied pilgrimage, in this City
of the Soul. A Humboldt was buried here; a Thorwalsden yet may. Here reposes clay too finely
tempered for the unkindnesses of mankind--Keats lies near;--a little farther is one who, on
the point of quitting Rome to rejoin an affectionate family after a too long absence, full
of the anticipations of the traveller and of youth, is thrown from his carriage at a mile's
distance from the city, and never quits Rome more;--beside him is an only child, whom the sun
of Italy could not save;--and next, one who perished suddenly, like Miss Bathurst, in the very
bud and bloom of existence,--or another, who died away, day after day, in the embraces of her
parents, and now rests in the midst of the beautiful in vain.

No epitaph could be better. New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUACKS

Have nearly the same interest as knaves in concealing their ignorance and frauds, and for the
most part regard with the same fear and detestation the instrument which unmasks their pretensions.
This must be understood with some qualification, because the exposure of ignorance and fraud
is not always sufficient to open the eyes, and enlighten the understandings, of mankind. Some
perverse dupes are not to be reasoned out of their infatuation; they had rather hug the impostor,
than confess the cheat; and quacks, speculating upon this infirmity of human nature, will sometimes
court even an infamous notoriety.--Lancet.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF THE MARVELLOUS.

Charming away the Hooping Cough.

An English lady, the wife of an officer, accompanied her husband to Dublin not very long ago,
when his regiment was ordered to that station. She engaged an Irish girl as nurse-maid in her
family; and, a short time after her arrival, was astonished by an urgent request from this
damsel, to permit her to charm little miss from ever having the hooping-cough, (then prevailing
in Dublin). The lady inquired how this charming business was performed; and not long after
had, in walking through the streets, many times the pleasure of witnessing the process, which
is simply this:--An ass is brought before the door of a house, into whose mouth a piece of
bread is introduced; and the child being passed three times over and under the animal's body,
the charm is completed; and of its efficacy in preventing the spread of a very distressing,
and sometimes fatal disorder, the lower class of Irish are certain.

The Legend of Hell Mary Hill.

Not many miles from Sheffield, as I was told by one who resided near the place, there is a
forest; and in an out-of-the-way part of it, a hill, tolerably high, covered with wood, and
vulgarly called Hell Mary Hill, though probably this is a name corrupted from one more innocent
or holy. Near the top of it is a cave, containing, it is said, a chest of money,--a great iron
chest, so full, that when the sun shines bright upon it, the gold can be seen through the key-hole;
but it has never yet been stolen, because, in the first place, a huge black cat (and wherever
a black cat is there is mischief, you may be sure) guards the treasure, which bristles up,
and, fixing a gashful gaze on the would-be marauder, with fiery eyes, seems ready to devour
him if he approach within a dozen yards of the cave; and, secondly, whenever this creature
is off guard, (and it has occasionally been seen in a neighbouring village,) and the treasure
has been attempted to be withdrawn from its tomb, no mortal rope has been able to sustain its
weight, each that has been tried invariably breaking when the coffer was at the very mouth
of the cave; which, being endowed with the gift of locomotion, has immediately retrograded
into its pristine situation! I have mentioned this tradition, as it was told to me, because
it is so curiously coincident with the German superstition of treasure buried within the Hartz
mountains, guarded, and ever disappointing the cupidity of those who would discover and possess
themselves of it.

Fairy Loaves.

Being lately in Norfolk, I discovered that the rustics belonging to the part of it in which
I was staying, particularly regarded a kind of fossil-stone, which much resembled a sea-egg
petrified, and was found frequently in the flinty gravel of that county. They esteemed such
stones sacred to the elfin train, and termed them fairy loaves, forbearing to touch them, lest
misfortunes should come upon them for the sacrilege. An old woman told me, that as she was
trudging home one night from her field-work, she took up one of these fossils, and was going
to carry it home with her; but was soon obliged to drop it, and take to her heels as quick
as might be, from hearing a wrathful voice exclaim, though she saw nobody, "Give me my loaf!
Give me back my loaf, I say!"--New London Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

HOGARTH'S MARRIAGE-A-LA-MODE.

Hogarth's admirable series of pictures, entitled Marriage-à-la-mode, were at first slightly
treated by the public, at which the artist was greatly incensed. Being in want of money, he
was at length obliged to dispose of them to Mr. Lane, of Hillington, for one hundred and twenty
guineas. The pictures being in good frames, which cost Hogarth four guineas a piece, his remuneration
for painting this valuable series was but a few shillings more than one hundred pounds. On
the demise of Mr. Lane, they became the property of his nephew, Colonel Cawthorn, who very
highly valued them. In the year 1797 they were sold by auction, at Christie's, Pall Mall, for
the sum of one thousand guineas; the liberal purchaser being the late Mr. Angerstein. They
now belong to government, and are the most attractive objects in the National Gallery.

       *       *       *       *       *

HAMPTON COURT PALACE.

The gardens and park, which are three miles in circumference, appear to me to be above all
competition. As you enter, you are struck with the majestic beauty of the trees, and the fine
gravel walks. As you advance, the fountains and statues demand your admiration; particularly
the famous Gladiator, which was brought from Rome. While in the gardens, the statues of Flora,
Ceres, Pomona, and Diana, placed on the west front of the building, are seen to much advantage.

The magnificent palace was originally built by Cardinal Wolsey, and consists of three principal
quadrangles. Here Cromwell resided, and it was the favourite residence of William and Mary.
It is chiefly built of brick, and is very capacious, more so than any other royal palace in
the British empire. Arriving at the great entrance, you almost seem as if you were about to
enter a fairy castle. The floor of the hall is laid out in beautiful square slabs of marble,
and a staircase of the same material leads you to the upper apartments, which contain pictures
and numerous curiosities.

Among the fine paintings, I shall notice a few, which appear to me as being perfect master-pieces.
But I must first take the liberty of saying a word or two about the gentleman who conducts
you through the rooms to explain the several pictures. When I had the pleasure of being with
him, his hair was powdered, and he carried a silver-headed cane. He hurried me through the
rooms, filling my ears with such gibberish as this:--"That ere picture, sir, up there, was
painted, five hundred years ago, for William the Conqueror, by Wandyke."[4] This is no mean
blunder in chronology!

    [4] Sir Antony Vandyke, who died about the year 1640.

There is a fine portrait of William the Third on horseback, of the size of life, by Sir Godfrey
Kneller; the horse is painted in a side view, and has a good effect. There are eight fine female
portraits of distinguished personages, by the same hand, in the highest state of preservation.

Bandinella, the Sculptor, by Corregio, is a most beautiful portrait. The face of the sculptor
is full of vivid expression, and the gold chain about his neck is almost a deception. This
painting, and a Holy Family, are all we find of the great Corregio at Hampton Court.

Charles the First, on horseback, by Sir A. Vandyke, is certainly much superior to the portrait
of William, mentioned above. As a painter, Sir Godfrey cannot be ranked with Vandyke, though,
I believe, the former considered himself much higher in the arts than the latter. The picture
before us is an admirable specimen of Vandyke's powers.

George the Third, likewise on horseback, reviewing his troops on Hounslow Heath, by Sir William
Beechey, R.A. This picture is unquestionably one of Sir William's best productions, and does
honour to the fine arts of this country. With the above portraits, there are others by West,
&c., which possess considerable merit.

There are, also, several choice specimens of Titian, Holbein, and Domenichino; with a few cabinet
pictures in the Dutch school, by Teniers, Ostade, &c. In this palace are Raphael's celebrated
cartoons, which are too well known to need describing in this place. G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BALLAD SINGER.

A Ballad-Singer is a town-crier for the advertising of lost tunes. Hunger hath made him a wind-instrument;
his want is vocal, and not he. His voice had gone a-begging before he took it up, and applied
it to the same trade; it was too strong to hawk mackerel, but was just soft enough for "Robin
Adair." His business is to make popular songs unpopular,--he gives the air, like a weather-cock,
with many variations. As for a key, he has but one--a latch-key--for all manner of tunes; and
as they are to pass current amongst the lower sorts of people, he makes his notes like a country
banker's, as thick as he can. His tones have a copper sound, for he sounds for copper; and
for the musical divisions he hath no regard, but sings on, like a kettle, without taking any
heed of the bars. Before beginning he clears his pipe with gin; and is always hoarse from the
thorough draft in his throat. He hath but one shake, and that is in winter. His voice sounds
flat, from flatulence; and he fetches breath, like a drowning kitten, whenever he can. Notwithstanding
all this, his music gains ground, for it walks with him from end to end of the street. He is
your only performer that requires not many entreaties for a song; for he will chant, without
asking, to a street cur, or a parish post. His only backwardness is to a stave after dinner,
seeing that he never dines; for he sings for bread, and though corn has ears, sings very commonly
in vain. As for his country, he is an Englishman, that by his birthright may sing whether he
can or not. To conclude, he is reckoned passable in the city, but is not so good off the stones.--Whims
and Oddities. Second series.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOYAGE UP THE MISSISSIPPI.

On leaving New Orleans, in ascending the river, the country, still the same continuous flat,
is enriched and enlivened by a succession of pretty houses and plantations, with each a small
negro town near them, as well as the sugar-houses, gardens, and summer-houses, which give the
idea of wealth and industry. For sixty miles the banks present the appearance of one continued
village skirted with plantations of cotton, sugar-cane, and rice, for about two miles from
the river, bounded in the rear, by the uncultivated swamps and woods. The boat proceeds continually
near the shore on one side or the other, and attracts the inhabitants to the front of their
neat houses, placed amidst orange groves, and shaded with vines and beautiful evergreens. I
was surprised to see the swarms of children of all colours that issued from these abodes. In
infancy, the progeny of the slave, and that of his master, seem to know no distinction; they
mix in their sports, and appear as fond of each other as the brothers and sisters of one family;
but in activity, life, joy, and animal spirits, the little negro, unconscious of his future
situation seems to me to enjoy more pleasure in this period of existence, than his pale companions.
The sultry climate of Louisiana, perhaps, is more congenial to the African constitution, than
to that of the European.

The next morning we arrived at Baton Rouge, 127 miles on our journey; a pretty little town,
on the east side, and the first rising ground we had seen, being delightfully situated on a
gradual acclivity, from which is a fine view of the surrounding flats. The fine barracks close
to it, contain a few companies of troops. We here stopped to take in some ladies, who continued
with us till the end of the voyage. To this place the leveé, or artificial banks, are continued
on both sides of the river from New Orleans, without which the land would be continually overflowed.
From this to Natches (232 miles,) the country is not interesting, consisting principally of
dense forest and wilderness, impenetrable to the eye, diversified, however, by the various
water fowl which the passing vessels disturb, in their otherwise solitary haunts, and by the
number of black and grey squirrels leaping from branch to branch in the trees. The great blue
kingfisher, which is common here, is so tame, as scarcely to move, as the boat passes, and
we frequently saw, and passed close to large alligators, which generally appeared to be asleep,
stretched on the half-floating logs. Several were fired at from the vessel, but none procured.
One pair that I saw together, must have been each upwards of twelve feet long.

Natches is a pleasantly situated town, or rather a steep hill, about half a mile from the landing
place, where are many stores and public houses. The boat remained here an hour, and we ascended
to the upper town, a considerable place, with a town-house, and several good streets and well-furnished
shops, in which we purchased some books. This place exports much cotton, and the planters are
said to be rich. It commands a fine prospect over the river and surrounding country. It has
been tried as a summer residence by some of the inhabitants of New Orleans, but the scourges
of this part of America (fever and ague) extend their ravages for more than 1000 miles higher
up. A partial elevation of ground, in an unhealthy district, has been proved to be more pernicious,
than even the level itself. From hence, to the junction of the Ohio, there is little to interest
the stranger, excepting the diversity of wood and water. The ground rises in some places, though
with little variety, till you pass the junction of the Ohio, 1253 miles from the sea. Shortly
after entering the Ohio, the country begins to improve; you perceive the ground beginning to
rise in the distance, and the bank occasionally to rear into small hills, which show their
strata of stone, and rise into bluffs, projecting into the bends of the river, shutting it
in, so as to produce the effect of sailing on a succession of the finest lakes, through magnificent
woods, which momentarily changed their form, from the rapid motion of our boat. It was now
full moon, and these scenes viewed during the clear nights, were indescribably beautiful.--
Bullock's Journey to New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

IRISH TWINS.

The Miss Mac Taafs were both on the ground, and both standing enough in profile, to give Lord
Arranmore a full and perfect view of their figure, without being seen by them. His first opinion
was, that they were utterly unchanged; and that like the dried specimens of natural history,
they had bidden defiance to time. Tall, stately, and erect, their weather-beaten countenance
and strongly marked features were neither faded nor fallen in. The deep red hue of a frosty
and vigorous senility still coloured their unwrinkled faces. Their hair, well powdered and
pomatumed, was drawn up by the roots from their high foreheads, over their lofty "systems;"
and their long, lank necks rose like towers above their projecting busts; which, with their
straight, sticky, tight-laced waists, terminating in the artificial rotundity of a half-dress
bell-hoop, gave them the proportions of an hour-glass. They wore grey camlet riding habits,
with large black Birmingham buttons (to mark the slight mourning for their deceased brother-in-law):
while petticoats, fastened as pins did or did not their office, shewed more of the quilted
marseilles and stuff beneath, than the precision of the toilet required: both of which, from
their contact with the water of the bog, merited the epithet of "Slappersallagh," bestowed
on their wearers by Terence O'Brien. Their habit-shirts, chitterlings, and cravats, though
trimmed with Trawlee lace, seemed by their colour to evince that yellow starch, put out of
fashion by the ruff of the murderous Mrs. Turner in England, was still to be had in Ireland.
Their large, broad silver watches, pendant from their girdle by massy steel chains, showed
that their owners took as little account of time as time had taken of them. "Worn for show,
not use," they were still without those hands, which it had been in the contemplation of the
Miss Mac Taafs to have replaced by the first opportunity, for the last five years. High-crowned
black-beaver hats, with two stiff, upright, black feathers, that seemed to bridle like their
wearers, and a large buckle and band, completed the costume of these venerable specimens of
human architecture: the tout ensemble recalling to the nephew the very figures and dresses
which had struck him with admiration and awe when first brought in from the Isles of Arran
by his foster mother, to pay his duty to his aunts, and ask their blessing, eighteen years
before. The Miss Mac Taafs, in their sixty-first year, (for they were twins,) might have sunk
with safety ten or twelve years of their age. Their minds and persons were composed of that
fibre which constitutes nature's veriest huckaback. Impressions fell lightly on both; and years
and feelings alike left them unworn and uninjured.--The O'Briens, and the O'Flahertys, by Lady
Morgan.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTUMN.

BY JOHN CLARE.

  Me it delights, in mellow Autumn tide,
    To mark the pleasaunce that mine eye surrounds:
  The forest-trees like coloured posies pied:
    The upland's mealy grey, and russet grounds;
  Seeking for joy, where joyaunce most abounds;
    Not found, I ween, in courts and halls of pride,
  Where folly feeds, or flattery's sighs and sounds,
    And with sick heart, but seemeth to be merry:
  True pleasaunce is with humble food supplied;
    Like shepherd swain, who plucks the brambleberry.
  With savoury appetite, from hedge-row briars,
    Then drops content on molehills' sunny side;
  Proving, thereby, low joys and small desires
    Are easiest fed, and soonest satisfied.
                              The Amulet.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    "I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's
    stuff,"--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOLY WATER.

