The Exhibitor (in a confidential tone, punctuated by bows). I will not keep you waiting, Ladies
and Gentlemen, but at once proceed with a few preliminary remarks. Most of you, no doubt, have
read that celebrated story by Mr. RIDER HAGGARD, about a certain She-who-must-be-obeyed, and
who dwelt in a place called Kôr, and you will also doubtless remember how she was in the 'abit
of repairing, at certain intervals, to a cavern, and renooing her youth in a fiery piller.
On one occasion, wishing to indooce her lover to foller her example, she stepped into the flame
to encourage him--something went wrong with the works, and she was instantly redooced to a
cinder. I fortunately 'appened to be near at the time (you will escuse a little wild fib from
a showman, I'm sure!) I 'appened to be porsin by, and was thus enabled to secure the ashes
of the Wonderful She, which--(draws hangings and reveals a shallow metal Urn suspended in the
centre of scene), are now before you enclosed in that little urn. She--where are you?

She (in a full sweet voice, from below). I am 'ere!

Showman. Then appear!

    [The upper portion of an exceedingly comely Young Person
    emerges from the mouth of the Urn.

The F.S. (startled). Lor, she give me quite a turn!

Showman. Some people think this is all done by mirrors, but it is not so; it is managed by
a simple arrangement of light and shade. She will now turn slowly round, to convince you that
she is really inside the urn and not merely beyind it. (She turns round condescendingly.) She
will next pass her 'ands completely round her, thereby demonstrating the utter impossibility
of there being any wires to support her. Now she will rap on the walls on each side of her,
proving to you that she is no reflection, but a solid reality, after which she will tap the
bottom of the urn beneath her, so that you may see it really is what it purports to be. (She
performs all these actions in the most obliging manner.) She will now disappear for a moment.
(She sinks into the Urn.) Are you still there, She?

She (from the recess of the Urn). Yes.

Showman. Then will you give us some sign of your presence! (A hand and arm are protruded, and
waved gracefully.) Thank you. Now you can come up again. (She re-appears.) She will now answer
any questions any lady or gentleman may like to put to her, always provided you won't ask her
how it is done--for I'm sure she wouldn't give me away, would you, She?

She (with a slow bow and gracious smile). Certingly not.

The F.S. (to her Companion). Ask her something--do.

Her Comp. Go on! I ain't got anything to ask her--ask her yourself!

A Bolder Spirit (with interest). Are your feet warm?

She. Quite--thanks.

The Showman. How old are you, She?

She (impressively). Two theousand years.

'Arry. And quite a young thing, too!

A Spectator (who has read the Novel). 'Ave you 'eard from LEO VINCEY lately?

She (coldly). I don't know the gentleman.

Showman. If you have no more questions to ask her, She will now retire into her urn, thanking
you all for your kind attendance this morning, which will conclude the entertainment.

    [Final disappearance of She. The Audience pass out,
    feeling--with perfect justice--that they have "had their
    money's worth."

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW IT'S DONE.

A HAND-BOOK OF HONESTY.

NO. III.--GRANDMOTHERLY GOVERNMENT.

    SCENE I.--St. Stephen's. Sagacious Legislator on his legs
    advocating a new Anti-Adulteration Act. Few M.P.'s present,
    most of them drowsing.

Sagacious Legislator. As I was saying, Sir, the adulteration of Butter has been pushed to such
abominable lengths that no British Workman knows whether what he is eating is the product of
the Cow or of the Thames mud-banks. (A snigger.) Talk of a Free Breakfast Table! I would free
the Briton's Breakfast Table from the unwholesome incubus of Adulteration. At any rate, if
the customer chooses to purchase butter which is not butter, he shall do it knowingly, with
his eyes open. (Feeble "Hear, hear!") Under this Act anything which is not absolutely unsophisticated
milk-made Butter must be plainly marked, and openly vended as Adipocerene!

    [Amidst considerable applause the Act is passed.

    SCENE II.--Small Butterman's shop in a poor neighbourhood.
    Burly white-apron'd Proprietor behind counter. To him enter a
    pasty-faced Workman, with a greasy pat of something wrapped in
    a leaf from a ledger.

Workman. I say, Guv'nor, lookye here. This 'ere stuff as you sold my old woman, is simply beastly.
I don't believe it's butter at all.

Butterman (sneeringly). And who said it was? What did your Missus buy it as?

Workman. Why, Adipo--whot's it, I believe. But that's only another name for butter of a cheaper
sort, ain't it? Anyhow, it's no reason why it should be nasty.

Butterman (loftily). Now look here, my man, what do you expect? That's Adipocerene, that is,
and sold as such. If you'll pay for Butter, you can have it; but if you ask for this here stuff,
you must take yer chance.

Workman. But what's it made on?

Butterman. That's no business of mine. If you could anerlyse it--(mind, I don't say yer could)--into
stale suet and sewer-scrapings, you couldn't prove as it warn't Adipocerene, same as it's sold
for, could yer?

Workman (hotly). But hang it, I don't want stale suet and sewer-scrapings, whatsomever you
may call it.

Butterman (decisively). Then buy Butter, and pay for it like a man, and don't come a-bothering
me about things as I've nothink to do with. If Guv'ment will have it called Adipocerene, and
your Missus will buy it becos it's cheap; don't you blame me if you find it nasty, that's all.
Good morning!

    [Retires up, "swelling visibly."

Workman. Humph! Betwixt Grandmotherly Government and Manufacturers of Mysteriousness, where
am I? That's wot I want to know! [Left wanting to know.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ENGELBERG AND BACK.

BEING A FEW NOTES TAKEN EN ROUTE IN SEARCH OF A PERFECT CURE.

The Engineers who constructed the gradually ascending road which, slowly mounting the valley,
finally takes you over the ridge, as it were, and deposits you at a height of 3800 feet, dusty
but grateful, on the plain of Engelberg, must have been practical jokers of the first water.
They lead you up in the right direction several thousand feet, then suddenly turn you round,
and apparently take you clean back again. And this not once, but a dozen times. They seem to
say, "You think you must reach the top this time, my fine fellow? Not a bit of it. Back you
go again."

Still we kept turning and turning whither the Practical-joking Engineers led us, but seemed
as far off from our journey's end as ever. A roadside inn for a moment deluded us with its
light, but we only drew up in front of this while our gloomy charioteer sat down to a good
square meal, the third he had had since three o'clock, over which he consumed exactly five-and-twenty
minutes, keeping us waiting while he disposed of it at his leisure, in a fit of depressing
but greedy sulks.

At length we moved on again, and in about another half-an-hour apparently reached the limit
of the Practical-joking Engineers' work, for our surly charioteer suddenly jumped on the box,
and cracking his whip furiously, got all the pace that was left in them out of our three sagacious
horses, and in a few more minutes we were tearing along a level road past scattered châlets,
little wooden toy-shops, and isolated pensions, towards a colossal-looking white palace that
stood out a grateful sight in the distance before us, basking in the calm white-blue blaze
shed upon it from a couple of lofty electric lights, that told us that up here in the mountains
we were not coming to rough it, but to be welcomed by the latest luxuries and refinements of
first-rate modern hotel accommodation. And this proved to be the case. Immediately he arrived
in the large entrance-hall, the Dilapidated One was greeted by the Landlord of the Hotel et
Kurhaus, Titlis, politely assisted to the lift, and finally deposited in the comfortable and
electrically-lighted room which had been assigned to him.

"We are extremely full," announced the polite Herr to Dr. MELCHISIDEC; "and we just come from
finishing the second dinner,"--which seemed to account for his being "extremely full,"--"but
as soon as you will descend from your rooms, there will be supper ready at your disposition."

"You'll just come and look at the Bath-chair before you turn in?" inquired Dr. MELCHISIDEC,
of the Dilapidated One, "It's arrived all right from Zurich. Come by post, apparently."

"Oh, that's nothing," continued young JERRYMAN, "why, there's nothing you can't send by post
in Switzerland, from a house full of furniture, down to a grand piano or cage of canaries.
You've only got to clap a postage-stamp on it, and there you are!" And the arrival of the Bath-chair
certainly seemed to indicate that he was telling something very like the truth.

"I don't quite see how this guiding-wheel is to act," remarked Dr. MELCHISIDEC, examining the
chair, which was of rather pantomimic proportions, critically; "but suppose you just get in
and try it! 'Pon my word it almost looks like a 'trick-chair'!" which indeed it proved itself
to be, jerking up in a most unaccountable fashion the moment the Dilapidated One put his foot
into it, and unceremoniously sending him flying out on to his head forthwith. "A little awkward
at first," he remarked, assisting the Dilapidated One on to his feet. "One has to get accustomed
to these things, you see; but, bless you, in a day or two you won't want it at all. You'll
find the air here like a continual draught of champagne. 'Pon my word, I believe you feel better
already," and with this inspiriting assurance the Dilapidated One, who had not only covered
himself with dust, but severely bruised his shins, saying that "he thought, perhaps, he did--just
a little," was again assisted to the lift, and safely consigned to his room, where he was comfortably
packed away for the night.

"I say," says young JERRYMAN, next morning, "what a place for bells!"

And young JERRYMAN was right, for I was awoke in the small hours of the morning by a loud peal
from the Monastery, as if the Prior had suddenly said to himself, "What's the use of the bells
if you don't ring 'em? By Jove, I will!" and had then and there jumped from his couch, seized
hold of the ropes, and set to work with a right good will. Then the hotels and pensions took
it up, and so, what with seven o'clock, eight o'clock, and nine o'clock breakfasts, first and
second déjeuners, first and second dinners, interspersed with "Office Hours" sounded by the
Monastery, and the sound of the dinner-bells carried by the cattle, Dingle-berg, rather than
Engelberg, would be a highly appropriate name for this somewhat noisy, but otherwise delightful
health-resort.

"I call this 'fatal dull' after Paris," remarked a fair Americaine to young JERRYMAN; and,
perhaps, from a certain point of view, she may have been right; but, fatal dull, or lively,
there can be no two opinions about the life-giving properties of the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD JOE ENCORE.--Last Wednesday in the FARRAR v. Publisher discussion, a Correspondent, signing
himself JOHN TAYLOR, of Dagnall Park, Selhurst, wrote to The Times to "quote an anecdote" about
DOUGLAS JERROLD and "a Publisher." Rarely has a good old story been so spoilt in the telling
as in this instance. The true story is of ALBERT SMITH and DOUGLAS JERROLD, and has been already
told in the Times by a Correspondent signing himself "E.Y." It is of the same respectable age
as that one of ALBERT SMITH signing his initials "A.S.," and JERROLD observing, "He only tells
two-thirds of the truth." Perhaps Mr. JOHN TAYLOR, of Dagnall Park, Selhurst, is going to favour
us with a little volume of "new sayings by old worthies" at Christmas time, and we shall hear
how SHERIDAN once asked TOM B---- "why a miller wore a white hat?" And how ERSKINE, on hearing
a witness's evidence about a door being open, explained to him that his evidence would be worthless,
because a door could not be considered as a door "if it were a jar," and several other excellent
stories, which, being told for the first time with the verve and local colouring of which the
writer of the letter to The Times is evidently a past-master, will secure for the little work
an enormous popularity.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SCOTT AND A LOT.--"Thirty Years at the Play" is the title of Mr. CLEMENT SCOTT's Lecture
to be delivered next Saturday at the Garrick Theatre, for the benefit of the Actors' Benevolent
Fund. Thirty years of Play-time! All play, and lots of work. Mr. IRVING is to introduce the
lecturer to his audience, who, up to that moment, will have been "Strangers Yet," and this
CLEMENT will be SCOTT-free to say what he likes, and to tell 'em all about it generally. "SCOTT"
will be on the stage, and the "Lot" in the auditorium. Lot's Wife also.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETHER-DRINKING IN IRELAND.--Mr. ERNEST HART (bless his heart and earnestness!) lectured last
week on "Ether-Drinking in Ireland." He lectured "The Society for the Study of Inebriety"--a
Society which must be slightly "mixed"--on this bad habit, and no doubt implored them to give
it up. The party sang, "How Happy could we be with Ether" and the discussion was continued
until there was nothing more to be said.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLERGY IN PARLIAMENT.--As Bishops "sit" in the Upper House, why should not "the inferior clergy"
"stand" for the Lower House? If they get in, why shouldn't they be seated? Surely what's right
in the Bishop isn't wrong in the Rector?

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY ADVERTISEMENT.--The forthcoming work by the Vulnerable Archdeacon F-RR-R, will be
entitled, The Pharrarsee and the Publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE McGLADSTONE;

OR, BLOWING THE BUGLE.

(FRAGMENTS FROM THE LATEST (MIDLOTHIAN) VERSION OF "THE LORD OF THE ISLES.")

  McGLADSTONE rose--his pallid cheek
  Was little wont his joy to speak,
    But then his colour rose.
  "Now, Scotland! shortly shalt thou see
  That age checks not McGLADSTONE's glee,
    Nor stints his swashing blows!"
  The foe he menaces again,
  Thrice vanquished on Midlothian's plain;
  Then, scorning any longer stay,
  Embarks, lifts sail, and bears away.

  Merrily, merrily bounds the bark,
    She bounds before the gale;
  The "flowing tide" is with her. Hark!
    As if they laughed again.
  'Tis then that warlike signals wake
  Dalmeney's towers, and fair Beeslack.

  And eke brave BALFOUR's walls (Q.C.
  And Scottish Dean of Faculty)
  Whose home shall house the great McG.
  A summons these to each stout clan
  That lives in far Midlothian,
    And, ready at the sight,
  Each warrior to his weapon sprung,
  And targe upon his shoulder flung,
    Impatient for the fight.

  Merrily, merrily, bounds the bark
    On a breeze to the northward free.
  So shoots through the morning sky the lark,
    Or the swan through the summer sea.
  Merrily, merrily, goes the bark--
  Before the gale she bounds;
  So darts the dolphin from the shark,
  Or the deer before the hounds.
  McGLADSTONE stands upon the prow,
  The mountain breeze salutes his brow,
  He snuffs the breath of coming fight,
  His dark eyes blaze with battle-light,
    And memories of old,
  When thus he rallied to the fray
  Against the bold BUCCLEUCH's array,
  His clansmen. In the same old way
  He trusts to rally them to-day.
  Shall he succeed? Who, who shall say?
  But neither fear no doubt may stay
    His spirit keen and bold!

  He cries, the Chieftain Old and Grand,
  "I fight once more for mine own hand;
  Meanwhile our vessel nears the land,
  Launch we the boat, and seek the land!"

  To land McGLADSTONE lightly sprung,
  And thrice aloud his bugle rung
  With note prolonged, and varied strain,
  Till Edin dun replied again.
  When waked that horn the party bounds,
  Scotia responded to its sounds;
  Oft had she heard it fire the fight,
  Cheer the pursuit, or stop the flight.
  Dead were her heart, and deaf her ear,
  If it should call, and she not hear.
  The shout went up in loud Clan-Rad's tone,
    "That blast was winded by McGLADSTONE!"

       *       *       *       *       *

RUM FROM JAMAICA--VERY.--When "the bauble" was removed from the table of the House, by order
of OLIVER CROMWELL, it was sent with somebody's compliments at a later date to Jamaica, and
placed on the Parliament table. What became of it nobody knows. It is supposed that this ensign
of ancient British Royalty was swallowed up by an earthquake of republican tendencies. Jamaica,
of course, is a great place for spices; but, in spite of all the highly spiced stories, the
origin of which is more or less aus-spice-ious, it is to be regretted that, up to the present
moment, what gave them their peculiar flavour, i.e., the original Mace, cannot be found.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED---A SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF "CELEBRITIES."

When some years ago EDMUNDUS ED. MUNDI first introduced to London the gentle art of Interviewing,
the idea was in a general way a novelty in this country. It "caught on," and achieved success.
Some public men affected, privately, not to like the extra publicity given to their words and
actions; but it was only an affectation, and in a general way a great many suddenly found themselves
dubbed "Celebrities," hall-marked as such by The World, and able therefore to hand themselves
down to posterity, in bound volumes containing this one invaluable number as having been recognised
by the world at large as undoubted Celebrities, ignorance of whose existence would argue utter
social insignificance. So great was the World's success in this particular line, that at once
there sprang up a host of imitators, and the Celebrities were again tempted to make themselves
still more celebrated by having good-natured caricatures of themselves made by "Age" and "Spy."
After this, the deluge, of biographies, autobiographies, interviewings, photographic realities,
portraits plain and coloured--many of them uncommonly plain, and some of them wonderfully coloured,--until
a Celebrity who has not been done and served up, with or without a plate, is a Celebrity indeed.

"Celebrities" have hitherto been valuable to the interviewer, photographer, and proprietor
of a Magazine in due proportion. Is it not high time that the Celebrities themselves have a
slice or two out of the cake? If they consent to sit as models to the interviewer and photographer,
let them price their own time. The Baron offers a model of correspondence on both sides, and,
if his example is followed, up goes the price of "Celebrities," and, consequently, of interviewed
and interviewers, there will be only a survival of the fittest.

FROM A. SOPHTE SOPER TO THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

SIR,--Messrs. TOWER, FONDLER, TROTTING & Co., are now engaged in bringing out a series of the
leading Literary, Dramatic and Artistic Notabilities of the present day, and feeling that the
work which has now reached its hundred-and-second number, would indeed be incomplete did it
not include your name, the above-mentioned firm has commissioned me to request you to accord
me an interview as soon as possible. I propose bringing with me an eminent photographer, and
also an artist who will make a sketch of your surroundings, and so contribute towards producing
a complete picture which cannot fail to interest and delight the thousands at home and abroad,
to whom your name is as a household word, and who will be delighted to possess a portrait of
one whose works have given them so much pleasure, and to obtain a closer and more intimate
acquaintance with the modus operandi pursued by one of their most favourite authors.

I remain, Sir, yours truly,

A. SOPHTE SOPER.

To the BARON DE BOOK-WORMS, Vermoulen Lodge.

FROM THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS TO A. SOPHTE SOPER, ESQ.

DEAB SIR,--Thanks. I quite appreciate your appreciation. My terms for an article in a Magazine,
are twenty guineas the first hour, ten guineas the second, and so on. For dinner-table anecdotes,
the property in which once made public is lost for ever to the originator, special terms. As
to photographs, I will sign every copy, and take twopence on every copy. I'm a little pressed
for time now, so if you can manage it, we will defer the visit for a week or two, and then
I'm your man.

Yours truly,

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

MR. A. SOPHTE SOPER TO THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

MY DEAR BARON,--I'm afraid I didn't quite make myself understood. I did not ask you to write
the article, being commissioned by the firm to do it myself. The photographs will not be sold
apart from the Magazine. Awaiting your favourable response,--

I am, Sir, Yours,

A. SOPHTE SOPER.

FROM THE BARON TO A. SOPHTE SOPER.

DEAR SIR,--I quite understood. With the generous view of doing me a good turn by giving me
the almost inestimable advantage of advertising myself in Messrs. TOWERS & Co.'s widely-circulated
Magazine, you propose to interview me, and receive from me such orally given information as
you may require concerning my life, history, work, and everything about myself which, in your
opinion, would interest the readers of this Magazine. I quite appreciate all this. You propose
to write the article, and I'm to find you the materials for it. Good. I don't venture to put
any price on the admirable work which your talent will produce,--that's for you and your publishers
to settle between you, and, as a matter of fact, it has been already settled, as you are in
their employ. But I can put a price on my own, and I do. I collaborate with you in furnishing
all the materials of which you are in need. Soit. For the use of my Pegasus, no matter what
its breed, and, as it isn't a gift-horse, but a hired one, you can examine its mouth and legs
critically whenever you are going to mount and guide it at your own sweet will, I charge twenty
guineas for the first hour, and ten for the second. It may be dear, or it may be cheap. That's
not my affair. C'est à laisser ou à prendre.

The Magazine in which the article is to appear is not given away with a pound of tea, or anything
of that sort I presume, so that your strictly honourable and business-like firm of employers,
and you also, Sir, in the regular course of your relations with them, intend making something
out of me, more or less, but something, while I get nothing at all for my time, which is decidedly
as valuable to me as, I presume, is yours to you. What have your publishers ever done for me
that I should give them my work for nothing? Time is money; why should I make Messrs. TOWER,
FONDLER & Co. a present of twenty pounds, or, for the matter of that, even ten shillings? If
I misapprehend the situation, and you are doing your work gratis and for the love of the thing,
then that is your affair, not mine: I'm glad to hear it, and regret my inability to join you
in the luxury of giving away what it is an imperative necessity of my existence to sell at
the best price I can. Do you honestly imagine, Sir, that my literary position will be one farthing's-worth
improved by a memoir and a portrait of me appearing in your widely-circulated journal? If you
do, I don't; and I prefer to be paid for my work, whether I dictate the material to a scribe,
who is to serve it up in his own fashion, or whether I write it myself. And now I come to consider
it, I should be inclined to make an additional charge for not writing it myself, Not to take
you and your worthy firm of employers by surprise, I will make out beforehand a supposititious
bill, and then Messrs. TOWER & Co. can close with my offer or not, as they please.

                                                              £.  s.  d.
  To preparing (in special costume) to receive Interviewer,
  for putting aside letters, refusing to see tradesmen, &c.   3   0   0
  To receiving Interviewer, Photographer, and Artist, and
  talking about nothing in particular for ten minutes.        5   0   0
  To cigars and light refreshments all round.                    10   6
  To giving an account of my life and works generally
  (this being the article itself).                           20   0   0
  To showing photographs, books, pictures, playbills, and
  various curios in my collection.                            5   0   0
  To being photographed in several attitudes in the back
  garden three times, and incurring the danger of catching
  a severe cold.                                              3   0   0
    (***On the condition that I should sign all photos sold
    inspect books, and receive 10 per cent. of gross receipts.)
  To allowing black-and-white Artist to make a sketch of my
  study, also of myself.                                      0   0   0
    (***On the condition that only this one picture is to
    be done, and that if sold separately, I must receive
    10 per cent. of such sale.)
  Luncheon, with champagne for the lot, at 15s. per head      2   5   0
  Cigars and liqueurs.                                        0  10   0
  For time occupied at luncheon in giving further details of
  my life and history.                                       10   0   0
                                                            -----------
                    Total                                   £49   5   6

The refreshments are entirely optional, and therefore can be struck out beforehand.

Pray show the above to the eminent firm which has the advantage of your zealous services, and
believe me to remain

Your most sincerely obliged

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

To the above a reply may be expected, and, if received, it will probably be in a different
tone from Mr. SOPHTE SOPER's previous communications. No matter. There's an end of it. The
Baron's advice to all "Celebrities," when asked to permit themselves to be interviewed, is,
in the language of the poet,--

  "Charge, Chester, charge!"

then they will have benefited other Celebrities all round, and the result will be that either
only those authors will be interviewed who are worth the price of interviewing, or the professional
biographical compilers will have to hunt up nobodies, dress up jays as peacocks, and so bring
the legitimate business of "Interviewing" into well-deserved contempt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two Men in a Boat. By Messrs. DILLON and O'BRIEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

L'ART DE CAUSER.

(WITH EFFECTS UP TO DATE.)

