Moreover, he was again affectionate to his mother, and occasionally even went to church with
her. The instincts of the English aristocrat reappeared amid the accomplishments of the petit-maitre,
and poor Mrs. Allison's spirits revived. Then the golden-haired Lady Madeleine was asked to
stay at Castle Luton. When she came Ancoats devoted himself with extraordinary docility. He
drew her, made songs for her, and devised French charades to act with her; he even went so
far as to compare her with enthusiasm to the latest and most wonderful "Salome" just exhibited
in the Salon by the latest and most wonderful of the impressionists. But Lady Madeleine fortunately
had not seen the picture.

Then suddenly, one morning, Ancoats went up to town without notice and remained there. After
a while his mother pursued him thither; but Ancoats was restless at sight of her, and she was
not long in London, though long enough to show the Maxwells and others that her heart was anxiously
set upon Lady Madeleine as a daughter-in-law.

This then--taken together with the stories now besprinkling the newspapers--was the situation.
Naturally, Ancoats's affairs, as he himself was irritably aware, were now, in one way or another,
occupying the secret thoughts or the private conversations of most of his mother's guests.

For instance--

       *       *       *       *       *

"Are you nice?" said Betty Leven, suddenly, to young Lord Naseby, in the middle of Sunday morning.
"Are you in a charitable, charming, humble, and trusting frame of mind? Because, if not, I
shall go away--I have had too much of Lady Kent!"

Charlie Naseby laughed. He was sitting reading in the shade at the edge of one of the Castle
Luton lawns. For some time past he had been watching Betty Leven and Lady Kent, as they talked
under a cedar-tree some little distance from him. Lady Kent conversed with her whole bellicose
person--her cap, her chin, her nose, her spreading and impressive shoulders. And from her gestures
young Naseby guessed that she had been talking to Betty Leven rather more in character than usual.

He felt a certain curiosity about the tete-a-tete. So that when Betty left her companion and
came tripping over the lawn to the house, the young man lifted his face and gave her a smiling
nod, as though to invite her to come and visit him on the way. Betty came, and then as she
stood in front of him delivered the home question already reported.

"Am I nice?" repeated young Naseby. "Far from it. I have not been to church, and I have been
reading a French novel of which I do not even propose to tell you the name."

And he promptly slipped his volume into his pocket.

"Which is worst?" said Betty, pensively: "to break the fourth Commandment or the ninth? Lady
Kent, of course, has been trampling on them both. But the ninth is her particular victim. She
calls it 'getting to the roots of things.'"

"Whose roots has she been delving at this morning?" said Naseby.

Betty looked behind her, saw that Lady Kent had gone into the house, and let herself drop into
the corner of Naseby's bench with a sigh of fatigue.

"One feels as though one were a sort of house-dog tussling with a burglar. I have been keeping
her off all my friends' secrets by main force; so she had to fall back on George Tressady,
and tell me ugly tales of his mamma."

"George Tressady! Why on earth should she do him an ill turn? I don't believe she ever saw
him before."

Betty pressed her lips. She and Charlie Naseby had been friends since they wore round pinafores
and sat on high nursery chairs side by side.

"One needn't go to the roots of things," she said, severely, "but one should have eyes in one's
head. Has it ever occurred to you that Ancoats has taken a special fancy to Sir George--that
he sat talking to him last night till all hours, and that he has been walking about with him
the whole of this morning, instead of walking about--well! with somebody else--as he was meant
to do? Why do men behave in this ridiculous manner? Women, of course. But men! It's like a
trout that won't let itself be landed. And what's the good? It's only prolonging the agony."

"Not at all," said Naseby, laughing. "There's always the chance of slipping the hook." Then
his lively face became suddenly serious. "But it's time, I think," he added, almost with vehemence,
"that Lady Kent stopped trying to land Ancoats. In the first place, it's no good. He won't
be landed against his will. In the next--well, I only know," he broke off, "that if I had a
sister in love with Ancoats at the present moment, I'd carry her off to the North Pole rather
than let her be talked about with him!"

Betty opened her eyes.

"Then there is something in the stories!" she cried. "Of course, Frank told me there was nothing.
And the Maxwells have not said a word. And now I understand why Lady Kent has been dinning
it into my ears--I could only be thankful Mrs. Allison was safe at church--that Ancoats should
marry early. 'Oh! my dear, it's always been the only hope for them!'" Betty mimicked Lady Kent's
deep voice and important manner: "'Why, there was the grandfather--his wife had a time!--I
could tell you things about him!--oh! and her too.--And even Henry Allison!--' There, of course,
I stopped her."

"Old ghoul!" said Naseby, in disgust. "So she knows. And yet--good Heavens! where does that
charming girl come from?"

He knocked the end off his cigarette, and returned it to his mouth with a rather unsteady hand.

"Knows?--knows what?" said Betty. There was a pink flush, perhaps of alarm, on her pretty cheek,
but her eyes said plainly that if there were risks she must run them.

Naseby hesitated. The natural reticence of one young man about another held him back--and he
was Ancoats's friend. But he liked Lady Madeleine, and her mother's ugly manoeuvres in the
sight of gods and men filled him with a restless ill-temper.

"You say the Maxwells have told you nothing?" he said at last. "But all the same I am pretty
certain that Maxwell is here for nothing else. What on earth should he be doing in this galere
just now! Look at him and Fontenoy! They've been pacing that lime-walk for a good hour. No
one ever saw such a spectacle before. Of course something's up!"

Betty followed his eyes, and caught the figures of the two men between the trunks as they moved
through the light and shadow of the lime-walk--Fontenoy's massive head sunk in his shoulders,
his hands clasped behind his back; Maxwell's taller and alerter form beside him. Fontenoy had,
in fact, arrived that morning from town, just too late to accompany Mrs. Allison and her flock
to church; and Maxwell and he had been together since the moment when Ancoats, having brought
his guest into the garden, had gone off himself on a walk with Tressady.

"Ancoats and Tressady came back past here," Naseby went on. "Ancoats stood still, with his
hands on his sides, and looked at those two. His expression was not amiable. 'Something hatching,'
he said to Tressady. I suppose Ancoats got his sneer from his actor-friends--none of us could
do it without practice. 'Shall we go and pull the chief out of that?' But they didn't go. Ancoats
turned sulky, and went into the house by himself."

"I'm glad I don't have to keep that youth straight," said Betty, devoutly. "Perhaps I don't
care enough about him to try. But his mother's a darling saint!--and if he breaks her heart
he ought to be hung."

"She knows nothing--I believe--" said Naseby, quickly.

"Strange!" cried Betty. "I wonder if it pays to be a saint. I shall know everything about my
boy when he's that age."

"Oh! will you?" said Naseby, looking at her with a mocking eye.

"Yes, sir, I shall. Your secrets are not so difficult to know, if one wants to know them. Heaven
forbid, however, that I should want to know anything about any of you till Bertie is grown
up! Now, please tell me everything. Who is the lady?"

"Heaven forbid I should tell you!" said Naseby, drily.

"Don't trifle any more," said Betty, laying a remonstrating hand on his arm; "they will be
home from church directly."

"Well, I won't tell you any names," said Naseby, reluctantly. "Of course, it's an actress--a
very small one. And, of course, she's a bad lot--and pretty."

"Why, there's no of course about it--about either of them!" said Betty, with more indignation
than grammar. She also had dramatic friends, and was sensitive on the point.

Naseby protested that if he must argue the ethics of the stage before he told his tale, the
tale would remain untold. Then Betty, subdued, fell into an attitude of meek listening, hands
on lap. The tale when told indeed proved to be a very ordinary affair, marked out perhaps a
trifle from the ruck by the facts that there was another pretender in the field with whom Ancoats
had already had one scene in public, and would probably have more; that Ancoats being Ancoats,
something mad and conspicuous was to be expected, which would bring the matter inevitably to
his mother's ears; and that Mrs. Allison was Mrs. Allison.

"Can he marry her?" said Betty, quickly.

"Thank Heaven! no. There is a husband somewhere in Chili. So that it doesn't seem to be a question
of driving Mrs. Allison out of Castle Luton. But--well, between ourselves, it would be a pity
to give Ancoats so fine a chance of going to the bad, as he'll get, if this young woman lays
hold of him. He mightn't recover it."

Betty sat silent a moment. All her gaiety had passed away. There was a fierceness in her blue eyes.

"And that's what we bring them up for!" she exclaimed at last--"that they may do all these
ugly, stale, stupid things over again. Oh! I'm not thinking so much, of the morals!"--she turned
to Naseby with a defiant look. "I am thinking of the hateful cruelty and unkindness!"

"To his mother?" said Naseby. He shrugged his shoulders.

Betty allowed herself an outburst. Her little hand trembled on her knee. Naseby did not reply.
Not that he disagreed; far from it. Under his young and careless manner he was already a person
of settled character, cherishing a number of strong convictions. But since it had become the
fashion to talk as frankly of a matter of this kind to your married-women friends as to anybody
else, he thought that the women should take it with more equanimity.

Betty, indeed, regained her composure very quickly, like a stream when the gust has passed.
They fell into a keen, practical discussion of the affair. Who had influence with Ancoats?
What man? Naseby shook his head. The difference in age between Ancoats and Maxwell was too
great, and the men too unlike in temperament. He himself had done what he could, in vain, and
Ancoats now told him nothing; for the rest, he thought Ancoats had very few friends amid his
innumerable acquaintance, and such as he had, of a third-rate dramatic sort, not likely to
be of much use at this moment.

"I haven't seen him take to any fellow of his own kind as much as he has taken to George Tressady
these two days, since he left Cambridge. But that's no good, of course--it's too new."

The two sat side by side, pondering. Suddenly Naseby said, smiling, with a change of expression:

"This party is really quite interesting. Look there!"

Betty looked, and saw George Tressady, with his hands in his pockets, lounging along a distant
path beside Marcella Maxwell.

"Well!" said Betty, "what then?"

Naseby gave his mouth a twist.

"Nothing; only it's odd. I ran across them just now--I was playing ball with that jolly little
imp, Hallin. You never saw two people more absorbed. Of course he's sous le charme--we all
are. Our English politics are rather rum, aren't they? They don't indulge in this amiable country-house
business in a South American republic, you know. They prefer shooting."

"And you evidently think it a healthier state of things. Wait till we come to something nearer
to our hearths and bosoms than Factory Acts," said Betty, with the wisdom of her kind. "All
the same, Lord Fontenoy is in earnest."

"Oh yes, Fontenoy is in earnest. So, I suppose, is Tressady. So--good Heavens!--is Maxwell.
I say, here comes the church party."

And from a side-door in a venerable wall, beyond which could be seen the tower of a little
church, there emerged a small group of people--Mrs. Allison, Lady Cathedine, and Madeleine
Penley in front, escorted by the white-haired Sir Philip; and behind, Lady Tressady, between
Harding Watton and Lord Cathedine.

"Cathedine!" cried Naseby, staring at the group. "Cathedine been to church?"

"For the purpose, I suppose, of disappointing poor Laura, who might have hoped to get rid of
him," said Betty, sharply. "No!--if I were Mrs. Allison I should draw the line at Lord Cathedine."

"Nobody need see any more of Cathedine than they want," said Naseby, calmly; "and, of course,
he behaves himself here. Moreover, there is no doubt at all about his brains. They say Fontenoy
expects to make great use of him in the Lords."

"By the way," said Betty, turning round upon him, "where are you?"

"Well, thank God! I'm not in Parliament," was Naseby's smiling reply. "So don't trouble me
for opinions. I have none. Except that, speaking generally, I should like Lady Maxwell to get
what she wants."

Betty threw him a sly glance, wondering if she might tease him about the news she heard of
him from Marcella.

She had no time, however, to attack him, for Mrs. Allison approached.

       *       *       *       *       *

"What is the matter with her?--with Madeleine?--with all of them?" thought Betty, suddenly.

For Mrs. Allison, pale and discomposed, did not return, did not apparently notice Lady Leven's
greeting. She walked hastily past them, and would have gone at once into the house but that,
turning her head, she perceived Lord Fontenoy hurrying towards her from the lime-walk. With
an obvious effort she controlled herself, and went to meet him, leaning heavily on her silver-topped
stick.

The others paused, no one having, as it seemed, anything to say. Letty poked the gravel with
her parasol; Sir Philip made a telescope of his hands, and fixed it upon Maxwell, who was coming
slowly across the lawn; while Lady Madeleine turned a handsome, bewildered face on Betty.

Betty took her aside to look at a flower on the house.

"What's the matter?" said Lady Leven, under her breath.

"I don't know," said the other. "Something dreadful happened on the way home. There was a girl--"

But she broke off suddenly. Ancoats had just opened and shut the garden-door, and was coming
to join his guests.

"Poor dear!" thought Betty to herself, with a leap of pity. It was so evident the girl's whole
nature thrilled to the approaching step. She turned her head towards Ancoats, as though against
her will, her tall form drawn erect, in unconscious tension.

Ancoats's quick eyes ran over the group.

"He thinks we have been talking about him," was Betty's quick reflection, which was probably
not far from the truth. For the young man's face at once assumed a lowering expression, and,
walking up to Lady Tressady, whom as yet he had noticed no more than civility required, he
asked whether she would like to see the "houses" and the rose-garden.

Letty, delighted by the attention, said Yes in her gayest way, and Ancoats at once led her
off. He walked quickly, and their figures soon disappeared among the trees.

Madeleine Penley gazed after them. Betty, who had a miserable feeling that the girl was betraying
herself to men like Harding Watton or Lord Cathedine,--a feeling which was, however, the creation
of her own nervous excitement,--tried to draw her away. But Lady Madeleine did not seem to
understand. She stood mechanically buttoning and unbuttoning her long gloves. "Yes, I'm coming,"
she said, but she did not move.

Then Betty saw that Lord Naseby had approached her; and it seemed to the observer that all
the young man's vivid face was suffused with something at once soft and fierce.

"The thorn-blossom on the hill is a perfect show just now, Lady Madeleine," he said. "Come
and look at it. There will be just time before lunch."

The girl looked at him. The colour rushed to her cheeks, and she walked submissively away beside
him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Letty and Ancoats pursued their way towards the greenhouses and walled gardens. Letty
tripped along, hardly able to keep up with her companion's stride, but chattering fast all
the time. At every turn of the view she overflowed with praise and wonder; nor could anything
have been at once more enthusiastic or more impertinent than the questions with which she plied
him as to his gardeners, his estate, and his affairs, in the intervals of panegyric.

Ancoats at first hardly listened to her. A perfunctory "Yes" or "No" seemed to be all that
the situation demanded. Then, when he did sufficiently emerge from the tempest of his own thoughts
to catch some of the things she was saying, his irritable temper rebelled at once. What had
Tressady been about?--ill-bred, tiresome woman!

His manner stiffened; he stalked along in front of her, doing his bare host's duty, and warding
off her conversation as much as possible; while Letty, on her side, soon felt the familiar
chill and mortification creeping over her. Why, she wondered angrily, should he have asked
her to walk with him if he could not be a more agreeable companion?

Towards the end of the lime-walk they came across Mrs. Allison and Lord Fontenoy. As they passed
the older pair the pale mother lifted her eyes to her son with a tremulous smile.

But Ancoats made no response, nor had he any greeting for Fontenoy. He carried his companion
quickly on, till they found themselves in a wilderness of walled gardens opening one into another,
each, as it seemed, more miraculously ordered and more abundantly stocked than its neighbour.

"I wonder you know your way," laughed Letty. "And who can possibly consume all this?"

"I haven't an idea," said Ancoats, abruptly, as he opened the door of the tenth vinery. "I
wish you'd tell me."

Letty raised her eyebrows with a little cry of protest.

"Oh! but it makes the whole place so magnificent, so complete."

"What is there magnificent in having too much?" said Ancoats, shortly. "I believe the day of
these huge country places, with all their dull greenhouses and things, is done."

Much he cared, indeed, about his gardeners and his grapes! He was in the mood to feel his whole
inheritance a burden round his neck. But at the same time to revile his own wealth gave him
a pungent sense of playing the artist.

"Have you argued that with Lord Fontenoy?" she inquired archly.

"I should not take the trouble," he said, with careless hauteur. "Ah!"--Letty's vanity winced
under his involuntary accent of relief--"I see your husband and Lady Maxwell."

Marcella and George came towards them. They were strolling along a broad flowery border, which
was at the moment a blaze of paeonies of all shades, interspersed with tall pyramidal growths
of honeysuckle. Marcella was loitering here and there, burying her face in the fragrance of
the honeysuckle, or drawing her companion's attention in delight to the glowing clumps of paeonies
Hallin hovered round them, now putting his hand confidingly into Tressady's, now tugging at
his mother's dress, and now gravely wooing the friendship of a fine St. Bernard that made one
of the party. George, with his hands in his pockets, walked or paused as the others chose;
and it struck Letty at once that he was talking with unusual freedom and zest.

Yes, it was true, indeed, as Harding said--they had made friends. As she looked at them the
first movement of a jealous temper stirred in Letty. She was angry with Lady Maxwell's beauty,
and angry with George's enjoyment. It was like the great lady all over to slight the wife and
annex the husband. George certainly might have taken the trouble to come and look for her on
their return from church!

So, while Ancoats talked stiffly with Marcella, the bride, a few paces off, let George understand
through her bantering manner that she was out of humour.

"But, dear, I had no notion you would be let out so soon," pleaded George. "That good man really
can't earn his pay."

"Oh! but of course you knew it was High Church--all split up into little bits," said Letty,
unappeased. "But naturally--"

She was about to add some jealous sarcasm when it was arrested by the arrival of Sir Philip
Wentworth and Watton, whose figures appeared in a side-archway close to her.

"Ah! well guessed," said Sir Philip. "I thought we should find you among the paeonies. Lady
Tressady, did you ever see such a show? Ancoats, is your head gardener visible on a Sunday?
I ask with trembling, for there is no more magnificent member of creation. But if I could get
at him, to ask him about an orchid I saw in one of your houses yesterday, I should be grateful."

"Come into the next garden, then," said Ancoats, "where the orchid-houses are. If he isn't
there, we'll send for him."

"Then, Lady Tressady, you must come and see me through," said Sir Philip, gallantly. "I want
to quarrel with him about a label--and you remember Dizzy's saying--'a head gardener is always
opinionated'? Are you coming, Lady Maxwell?"

Marcella shook her head, smiling.

"I am afraid I hate hothouses," she said.

"My dear lady, don't pine for the life according to nature at Castle Luton!" said Sir Philip,
raising a finger. "The best of hothouses, like the best of anything, demands a thrill."

Marcella shrugged her shoulders.

"I get more thrill out of the paeonies."

Sir Philip laughed, and he and Watton carried off Letty, whose vanity was once more happy in
their society; while Ancoats, glad of the pretext, hurried along in front to find the great
Mr. Newmarch.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I believe there are some wonderful irises out in the Friar's Garden," said Marcella. "Mrs.
Allison told me there was a show of them somewhere. Let me see if I can find the way. And Hallin
would like the goldfish in the fountain."

Her two companions followed her gladly, and she led them through devious paths till there was
a shout from Hallin, and the most poetic corner of a famous garden revealed itself. Amid the
ruins of a cloister that had once formed part of the dissolved Cistercian priory on whose confiscated
lands Castle Luton had arisen, a rich medley of flowers was in full and perfect bloom. Irises
in every ravishing shade of purple, lilac, and gold, carpets of daffodils and narcissus, covered
the ground, and ran into each corner and cranny of the old wall. Yellow banksia and white clematis
climbed the crumbling shafts, or made new tracery for the empty windows, and where the ruin
ended, yew hedges, adorned at top with a whole procession of birds and beasts, began. The flowery
space thus enclosed was broken in the centre by an old fountain; and as one sat on a stone
seat beside it, one looked through an archway, cut through the darkness of the yews, to the
blue river and the hills.

The little place breathed perfume and delight. But Marcella did not, somehow, give it the attention
it deserved. She sat down absently on the bench by the fountain, and presently, as George and
Hallin were poking among the goldfish, she turned to her companion with the abrupt question:

"You didn't know Ancoats, I think, before this visit, did you?"

"Only as one knows the merest acquaintance. Fontenoy introduced me to him at the club."

Marcella sighed. She seemed to be arguing something with herself. At last, with a quick look
towards the approaches of the garden, she said in a low voice:

"I think you must know that his friends are not happy about him?"

It so happened that Watton had found opportunity to show Tressady that morning a paragraph
from one of the numerous papers that batten on the British peer, his dress, his morals, and
his sport. The paragraph, without names, without even initials, contained an outline of Lord
Ancoats's affairs which Harding, who knew everything of a scandalous nature, declared to be
well informed. It had made George whistle; and afterwards he had watched Mrs. Allison go to
church with a new interest in her proceedings.

So that when Marcella threw out her hesitating question, he said at once:

"I know what the papers are beginning to say--that is, I have seen a paragraph--"

"Oh! those newspapers!" she said in distress. "We are all afraid of some madness, and any increase
of talk may hasten it. There is no one who can control him, and of late he has not even tried
to conceal things."

"It is a determined face," said George. "I am afraid he will take his way. How is it that he
comes to be so unlike his mother?"

"How is it that adoration and sacrifice count for so little?" said Marcella, sadly. "She has
given him all the best of her life."

And she drew a rapid sketch of the youth's career and the mother's devotion.

George listened in silence. What she said showed him that in his conversations with Ancoats
that young man had been talking round and about his own case a good deal! and when she paused
he said drily:

"Poor Mrs. Allison! But, you know, there must be some crumples in the rose-leaves of the great."

She looked at him with a momentary astonishment.

"Why should one think of her as 'great'? Would not any mother suffer? First of all he is so
changed; it is so difficult to get at him--his friends are so unlike hers--he is so wrapped
up in London, so apathetic about his estate. All the religious sympathy that meant so much
to her is gone. And now he threatens her with this--what shall I call it?"--her lip curled--"this
entanglement. If it goes on, how shall we keep her from breaking her heart over it? Poor thing!
poor mothers!"

She raised her white hand, and let it fall upon her knee with one of the free, instinctive
gestures that made her beauty so expressive.

But George would not yield himself to her feeling.

"Ancoats will get through it--somehow--as other men do," he said stubbornly, "and she must
get through it too--and not break her heart."

Marcella was silent. He turned towards her after a moment.

"You think that a brutal doctrine? But if you'll let me say it, life and ease and good temper
are really not the brittle things women make them! Why do they put all their treasure into
that one bag they call their affections? There is plenty else in life--there is indeed! It
shows poverty of mind!"

He laughed, and taking up a pebble dropped it sharply among the goldfish.

"Alack!" said Marcella, caressing her child's head as he stood playing beside her. "Hallin,
I can't have you kiss my hand like that. Sir George says it's poverty of mind."

"It ain't," said Hallin, promptly. But his remark had a deplorable lack of unction, for the
goldfish, startled by George's pebble, were at that moment performing evolutions of the greatest
interest, and his black eyes were greedily bent upon them.

Both laughed, and George let her remark alone. But his few words left on Marcella a painful
impression, which renewed her compassion of the night before. This young fellow, just married,
protesting against an over-exaltation of the affections!--it struck her as half tragic, half
grotesque. And, of course, it was explained by the idiosyncrasies of that little person in
a Paris gown now walking about somewhere with Sir Philip!

Yet, just as she had again allowed herself to think of him as someone far younger and less
mature than herself, he quietly renewed the conversation, so far as it concerned Ancoats, talking
with a caustic good sense, a shrewd perception, and at bottom with a good feeling, that first
astonished her, and then mastered her friendship more and more. She found herself yielding
him a fuller and fuller confidence, appealing to him, taking pleasure in anything that woke
the humour of the sharp, long face, or that rare blink of the blue eyes that meant a leap of
some responsive sympathy he could not quite conceal.

And for him it was all pleasure, though he never stopped to think of it. The lines of her slender
form, as she sat with such careless dignity beside him, her lovely eyes, the turns of her head,
the softening tones of her voice, the sense of an emerging bond that had in it nothing ignoble,
nothing to be ashamed of, together with the child's simple liking for him, and the mere physical
delight of this morning of late May--the rush and splendour of its white, thunderous clouds,
its penetrating, scented air: each and all played their part in the rise of a new emotion he
would not have analysed if he could.

He was particularly glad that in this fresh day of growing intimacy she had as yet talked politics
or "questions" of any sort so little! It made it all the more possible to escape from, to wholly
overthrow in his mind, that first hostile image of her, impressed--strange unreason on his
part!--by that first meeting with her in the crowd round the injured child, and in the hospital
ward. Had she started any subject of mere controversy he would have held his own as stoutly
as ever. But so long as she let them lie, herself, the woman, insensibly argued for her, and
wore down his earlier mood.

So long, indeed, as he forgot Maxwell's part in it all! But it was not possible to forget it
long. For the wife's passion, in spite of a noble reticence, shone through her whole personality
in a way that alternately touched and challenged her new friend. No; let him remember that
Maxwell's ways of looking at things were none the less pestilent because she put them into words.

       *       *       *       *       *

After luncheon Betty Leven found herself in a corner of the Green Drawing-room. On the other
side of it Mrs. Allison and Lord Fontenoy were seated together, with Sir Philip Wentworth not
far off. Lord Fontenoy was describing his week in Parliament. Betty, who knew and generally
shunned him, raised her eyebrows occasionally, as she caught the animated voice, the queer
laughs, and fluent expositions, which the presence of his muse was drawing from this most ungainly
of worshippers. His talk, indeed, was one long invocation; and the little white-haired lady
in the armchair was doing her best to play Melpomene. Her speech was very soft. But it made
for battle; and Fontenoy was never so formidable as when he was fresh from Castle Luton.

Betty's thoughts, however, had once more slipped away from her immediate neighbours, and were
pursuing more exciting matters,--the state of Madeleine Penley's heart and the wiles of that
witch-woman in London, who must be somehow plucked like a burr from Ancoats's skirts,--when
Marcella entered the room, hat in hand.

"Whither away, fair lady?" cried Betty; "come and talk to me."

"Hallin will be in the river," said Marcella, irresolute.

"If he is, Sir George will fish him out. Besides, I believe Sir George and Ancoats have gone
for a walk, and Hallin with them. I heard Maxwell tell Hallin he might go."

