Your honourable, high-minded lawyers--which meant the well-dressed and prosperous--had nothing
to do with such dirty work; that is, directly. There were plenty of lawyers not so honourable
and high minded called in as "counsel." Actual dishonesty was diluted through a number of men.
Packing a jury was a fine art. Initially was needed connivance at the sheriff's office. Hence
lawyers, as a class, were in politics. Neither the stellar lawyer nor the sheriff knew any
of the details of the transaction. A sum of money went to the former's "counsel" as expenses,
and emerged, considerably diminished, in the sheriff's office as "perquisites." It had gone
from the counsel to somebody like Mex Ryan, from him to various plug- uglies, ward heelers,
shoulder strikers, from them to one or another of the professional jurymen, and then on the
upward curve through the sheriff's underlings who made out the jury lists to Webb himself.
The thing was done.

In this tortuous way many influences were needed. The most honest lawyer's limit as to the
queer things he would do depended on his individual conscience. It is extraordinary what long
training and the moral support of a whole profession will do toward educating a conscience.
Do not despise unduly the lawyers of that day. We have all of us good friends in the legal
profession who will defend in court a criminal they know to be guilty as charged. They will
urge that no man should go undefended; and will argue themselves into a belief that in such
a case "defence" means not merely fair play, but a desperate effort to get him off anyhow--trained
conscience. If such sophistries are sincerely believed by honest men nowadays, it cannot be
wondered at that queerer sophistries passed current in a community not five years old. It was
difficult to draw the line between the men who mistakenly believed themselves honest and those
who knew themselves dishonest.

But once in politics there could be no end. In this field the law rubbed shoulders with big
contracts, big operations. A city was being built, in a few years, out of nothing, by a busy,
careless, and shifting population. The opportunities for making money on public works--either
honestly or by jobbery--were almost unlimited. The mood of the times was extravagant. From
the still unexhausted placers poured a flood of gold, hard money, tangible wealth; and a large
percentage of it paused in San Francisco, changed hands before continuing its journey. Immigrants
brought with them a lesser but still significant sum. The city treasury should have been full
to bursting. In addition, the municipality was rich in its real estate. The value of all land
had gone up immensely; any time more cash was needed it could quickly be raised by the sale
of public lots. The supply seemed inexhaustible. Paving, sewers, grading, filling, lighting,
wharves, buildings Were all voted; and the work completed in the quickest, flimsiest, most
slipshod fashion; and at terrible prices. The Graham House, a pretentious frail structure that
had failed as a hotel because a swamp lay between it and the city, was bought at a huge price
to serve as city hall. It was a veritable white elephant, and even the busy populace spared
time to grumble at the flagrant steal. Nobody knew what it would cost to make the thing habitable
even. Soon, to every one's relief, it burned down. The property was then swindled over to Peter
Smith. The Jenny Lind Theatre, an impossible, ramshackle structure, was purchased over the
vigorous protest of every decent citizen, for the enormous sum of $300,000. Another $100,000
was alleged to have been spent in remodelling and furnishing it. Then it was solemnly declared
"unsuited to the purpose." It also burned down in one of the numerous fires. But the money
was safe! Elections came soon to be so many farces. In some wards no decent citizen dared show
his face. "Shoulder strikers" were openly hired for purposes of intimidation. Bribery was scarcely
concealed. And if things looked doubtful, there were always the election inspectors and judges
in reserve who could be relied upon to make things come out right in the final count. The proper
men were always returned as elected. If violence or fraud were alleged, lawyers always got
the accused off in a strictly legal manner.

In these matters, it must be repeated, no opprobrium ever rested on either the big lawyers
or the big operators. "Expenses" went to the underlings, and after some mysterious subterranean
manipulation, of which the big fellows remained blandly unconscious, results came back.

In the world of public works Keith rapidly made himself a position. He was leading counsel
for Dick Blatchford and one or two others. His job was to know all the rules of the game so
well that there were no comebacks; to set the machinery in motion by which the contracts were
procured; and to straighten out any irregularities that might arise afterward. His position
was almost academic. The matters he fought and decided were so detached from actuality, as
far as he was concerned, that they might have been hypothetical cases. When Dick wanted anything
specific, Keith instructed Patsy Corrigan to see that the proper officials awarded the contract.
If the matter ever came to the courts, Keith furnished the brains and Patsy somehow "saw" the
sheriff and whoever was necessary from the mysterious underworld. Everybody was doing the same
thing. In the minds of men profits of any sort were legitimate provided they were "legal,"
but especially against so vague an entity as a community. Civic consciousness had not been
born in them, for the simple reason that the city was constituted perfectly to suit them. Only
when men are dissatisfied with their government do they seek to become responsible for it.
There was no active public opinion against them. Men were too busy to bother with such things.
Occasionally a fairly vigorous protest against some peculiarly outrageous steal made itself
heard, but the men who made it were either cranks or it was suspected they had been pinched
in some way. They merely represented the opposition any active man expects.

And every last one of these merry, jovial pirates was inordinately proud of the ship he was
helping to scuttle! That one fact, attentively considered, explains much.

The city was growing, it was taking on a permanent character. In spite of waste, shoddy work,
and frequent fires, its vitality was triumphant. The sand hills had all been graded flat, and
the material from them had filled in the water lots of the bay; miles of fireproof brick structures
had been built on four or five streets; there were now a half score of long wharves instead
of one; omnibuses ran everywhere; fine steamers plied to fashionable watering places about
the bay; the planks in the streets were being replaced by cobblestones; telegraph service had
been inaugurated to San Jose and Sacramento; several new theatres had been built; gas lamps
were being placed about the streets; huge wooden palaces with much scrollwork ornamentation
were being built on Stockton Street and the Rincon Hill. All these things, as well as the climate,
the mines, the agricultural resources, the commerce, the scenery, were fully appreciated and
enthusiastically made the most of by every mother's son. Any man among them was ready at a
moment's notice to wax enthusiastic about the resources and the future of the place. They were
"boosters" in the modern acceptation of the term.

XXIX

In this eager, fast-living, nervous, high-strung man's world Keith took to himself a prominent
part. He was so fully-occupied in other directions that his practice did not lead him into
criminal law, so he missed an influence that must have either ended by blunting or repelling
him. He corresponded to what nowadays would be called a corporation lawyer. His clients were
few, but wealthy, powerful, and remunerative; his cases were subtle and hard fought, He enjoyed
the intricate game for its own sake, and he enjoyed his success in it. In the inevitable give
and take of a complicated world he knew, of course, of shady doings beneath; but he was not
personally involved; he accepted them as part of the make-up of society, human nature, the
medium--of work.

But Nan was necessarily left more and more to her own devices. And, further, she was left alone
without even the preoccupation furnished her domestic side by such an affair as that with Mrs.
Morrell. She knew that Keith was wholly absorbed in his business. She was loyal to his unexpressed
idea that in these propitious beginnings he must devote all his energies to his career. She
was loyal to his preoccupation. It was the only way in which she could help. And yet, without
being given cause for grievance, she was temporarily thrust outside his life, put in cold storage,
as it were, until she should be wanted. He bolted immediately after breakfast; often he did
not come home to lunch; was quite likely to go out again in the evening.

It followed that Nan had to make her own life out of the materials at hand. This was at first
difficult, for all the materials were novel to her. Gradually, however, she fitted herself
into the social transformation that was taking place.

Heretofore, society had not existed. Now, vaguely, it was beginning to take coherence and form.
A transition period was on. The "nobs" were evolving from chaos. People of the fast Morrell
type were losing their influence and ascendency, were being pushed aside to the fringes by
the more "solid" elements. Wealth and arrogant dignity were coming into their innings. Formal
functions, often on an elaborate scale, were taking the place of the harum-scarum informal
parties. There came up some questions of social leadership. In short, social life was developing
into the usual game. Lacking other interests, Nan found it amused her to play at it, to contend
with the leaders, to form alliances, to declare war, to assume by right and talent her place
among the best.

This pleased Keith. Social standing helped him in business; and he enjoyed the sight of his
beautiful young wife queening it serenely over the city's best. He was always eager to advance
money for new gowns or expensive parties. At first he went out with her, but soon found that
three o'clock in the morning meant a next day's brain dulled of its keenest edge. But he would
not hear of her staying at home on his account.

"I'm tired, and I'm going to bed right away," he told her. "You go and uphold the splendour
of the family. Get Ben to take you."

Ben Sansome was to Keith a tremendous convenience. He was the only idle man in town, always
on tap, ready to stay out any and every night until the cocks crowed. Why shouldn't he? He
had nothing to do all next day, except, perhaps, to decide which stick he should carry! With
a busy man's good- humoured contempt for the mere idler, Keith looked upon Sansome as a harmless
household-pet sort of person; good natured, accommodating, pleasant to talk to, good looking,
foppish in dress, but beneath any serious human being's notice. Sansome was on easy terms of
intimacy with the Keiths. It was mighty good of him to look out for Nan. If he did not, Keith
would have to.

In this formative period Ben Sansome was, however, a very important figure in the woman's world.
Social construction was a ticklish matter. There were so many things to be decided; small items
of etiquette, the "proper thing" --procedure, decorations, good form, larger matters as to
whether so-and-so should be received, and if so, how extensively. Ben Sansome was past master
of such things. He was the only man in town who knew--or cared--how to "draw lines." He became
truly a modern arbiter elegantiarum. For San Francisco had begun in real earnest to "draw lines."

They were rather strange lines at times. Of course such people as the Brannans, Montgomerys,
Terrys, Bushs, Bakers, Caldwells, and other "old families" (three or four years old), went
without saying. Also were included the greater merchants and their feminine representatives,
such as Palmer, Cook, Adams, Wilkins, and the like. Also there seemed to be a solid foundation
of those respectable and powerful with plenty of wealth--"but hopeless, my dear, absolutely
hopeless!" groaned some of the livelier members.

Lightning struck capriciously at those on whom this new society might frown, on those who as
lately as last year had ridden the crest of the wave. For example, it spared Sally Warner,
with her spotted veils drawn close around her face, her red belts, and her red tufts on her
small toques, but it blasted the Morrells. Mrs. Morrell clung tenaciously to the outskirts,
but she knew only too well that she did not "belong." In her heart she ascribed this fact to
Mrs. Keith. This was unjust, but it added to her bitterness against her neighbours.

Perhaps her suspicions were not unnatural, for Nan won easily in this game. She was undoubtedly
the social leader. It seemed eminently fitting that, lacking her husband, she should go out
much with Ben Sansome. Most women thought her lucky to have acquired so valuable a social acquisition.
Some people, like fat, coarse, sensible Mrs. Dick Blatchford, were a little doubtful.

"Shucks!" snorted Sally Warner, slapping her little riding boot dashingly with her latest novelty,
an English hunting crop, "Nan Keith impresses me as one who knows her way about. And, anyway,
as long as Mr. Keith is satisfied, I'm sure we should be!"

XXX

To his surprise Ben Sansome found himself warming to what he considered a real passion. At
least it was as real a passion as he was capable of feeling. Sansome had always been spoiled.
Accustomed as he was to easy conquests, especially of late among the faster San Francisco women
of the early days, Nan Keith's very aloofness attracted him. She dwelt in a serene atmosphere
of unsuspicion, going about freely with him, taking their right relations for granted, and
not thinking about them. Contemplating this, Sansome was clever enough to see that, a false
move at the wrong time would do for him. Therefore, he occupied himself at first merely in
making himself useful. He accepted Keith's role for him, becoming the friend of the family,
dropping in often and informally, happening on the spot at just the right time to relieve Keith
of the necessity of escorting Nan to this or that tea or ball. So well did he play his part
that at last there came a time when Keith said:

"I'm dead tired to-night, Nan. Seems as if I couldn't stand chatter. Can't you send a note
around to Ben and see if he can't get you there and back?"

This came to be a regular thing. If Sansome did not happen to be there, he was sent for. And
his engagements were never such that he failed to accept.

He and Keith called each other by their given names; but even after a close intimacy had been
established, he never addressed Nan by hers.

"You sound very formal," she hinted to him at last.

"To me the privilege of calling you by your 'little name' is so great an evidence of friendship,
that it actually seems like flaunting that friendship to call you so before others" he replied.

Always after that he called her "Nan" when they were alone together, but "Mrs. Keith" when
a third, even Keith himself, was present. In that way their tete-a-tetes were marked off a
little. When alone with her he maintained the pose of one struggling manfully against tremendous
temptations held back only by her sweet influence. But he never overdid it. As they came to
know each other better, he talked ever the more freely of men's mysterious temptations. Nan
could not define to herself exactly what they might be.

"Yesterday I couldn't see you," he told her. "I struggled with myself all day. Good God, what
does a woman like you know of a man's weaknesses and temptations--But I conquered."

Nan was uneasy. She did not know quite what it was all about, but her instincts warned her.

"I am glad," she replied; and went on hastily, "but you must tell me what you think about having
the tea served in the arbour on the seventh, I've been dying to ask you."

With an obvious effort to be cheerful about this fresh subject, he wrenched himself into a
new mood. They consulted on the party for the seventh. He broke off abruptly to say: "Do you
know you're an extraordinary person--but you are!" he overrode her protests. "Don't I know
the ordinary kind? Women have a deep strength of their own that men cannot understand."

He stayed only a few minutes after that. On parting he for the first time permitted himself
a lingering gaze into her eyes as he reluctantly relinquished her hand. She turned away, distinctly
uneasy. Yet so skilfully had he woven, his illusion of dependence on her that she shook it
off with a tender and maternal smile.

"Poor boy," she murmured. "He is so unhappy and alone!"

Sansome was an accomplished equestrian. Finding that Nan knew nothing whatever about riding,
he procured her a gentle horse, and took the greatest trouble and pleasure in teaching her.
She proved apt, for she had good natural control of her body. After the first uncertainty and
the first stiffness had worn off, she delighted in long rides toward different parts of the
peninsula. Gringo, now a full-grown dog inclining toward the shepherd more than anything else,
delighted in them, too. He ranged far and wide in front of the horses, exploring every ditch
and thicket, wallowing happily in every mudhole, returning occasionally to roll his comical
eyes at them as though to say, "Aren't we having a good time?" for Gringo was a dog with a
sense of humour. On these excursions she renewed acquaintance with the sand dunes, and the
little canons with birds, and the broad beach at low tide on which it was glorious to gallop.
Once or twice they even stopped at the little rancho where the Keiths had lunched. There Nan,
through Sansome, who talked Spanish, was able to communicate with her kindly hosts; and Gringo
met his honoured but rather snappy mother. The mother disowned him utterly. As the days grew
shorter they often rode on the Presidio hills, watching the sun set beyond the Golden Gate.

One such evening they had reined up their horses atop one of the hills next the Gate. The sun
had set somewhere beyond the headlands. Tamalpais was deep pink with the glow; the water in
the Gate was pale lilac; the sky close to the horizon burned orange, but above turned to a
pale green that made with its lucent colour alone infinite depths and spaces. Below, the darker
waters twisted and turned with the tide. The western headlands were black silhouettes.

"Oh, but it is beautiful!" she said at last.

"Yes, it is beautiful," he agreed somberly; "but when one is lonely, somehow it hurts."

There ensued a short, tense silence, broken only by the soft rolling of the bit wheels in the
horses' mouths.

"Yes," she agreed softly, after a moment, "I feel that, too. Yet sometimes I wonder if one
doesn't see and feel more keenly when one is not too happy--" She hesitated.

"Yes, yes! Go on!" he urged in a low voice. His tone, his attitude, suddenly seemed to envelop
her with understanding. He appeared to offer her aid, chivalrous aid, although no word was
spoken. She had not quite meant it that way; in fact, her thought was to offer him sympathy.
But somehow it was grateful. It would do no harm to enjoy it, secretly, for a moment. His unexpressed
sympathy--for what she would have been unable to say--was attractive to her isolation.

Often on returning from these rides she asked him in for a cup of tea. Occasionally, when she
was overheated, or damp from the fog, she would excuse herself and slip into a soft negligee.
With lamp and fire lit they made a very cozy tete-a-tete. He smoked contemplatively; she stitched
at the inevitable embroidery of the period. Occasionally they talked animatedly; quite as frequently
they sat in sociable silence. Gringo slept by the fire dreaming of rabbits and things, his
hind legs twitching as he triumphantly ran them down. One evening she caught sight of a rip
in the sewing of his tobacco pouch. In spite of his protests, she insisted on sewing it up
for him. She was conscious of his eyes on her while she plied the needle, and felt somehow
very feminine and sure of her power.

"There!" she cried, when she had finished. "You certainly do need somebody to take care of you!"

He took it without spoken thanks, and put it slowly away in his pocket--as though, he would
have kissed it. A pregnant silence followed, he sitting staring at her, she jabbing the needle
idly into the arm of her chair. Suddenly, as though taking a tremendous resolution, he spoke:

"Nan, I am going to ask you a question. You must not be offended. Do you really love your husband?"
At her hasty movement he hurried on: "I imagine I feel something unsatisfied about you--besides,
lots of women don't."

As he probably expected, her indignation was thoroughly aroused. He took his castigation and
dismissal meekly, and found some interest in the ensuing negotiations toward reconciliation.
No one knew better than he how to sue for forgiveness. But he was quite satisfied to have implanted
the idea, for Ben Sansome was content with slow coral-insect progress. A busy man, engaged
in men's occupations, would never have had the patience for this leisurely establishment of
atmosphere and influence; his impatience or passion would have betrayed him to an early outbreak.
But with Sansome it was the practice of a fine art. He knew just how far to go. No one could
more skilfully ingratiate himself in small ways. He always knew what gown she should wear or
had worn, and always commented appreciatively on what she had on. Keith merely knew vaguely
whether she looked well or ill. Sansome noticed and praised little things--her well-shod feet,
the red lights in her hair, an unusual flower in her belt. He knew every hat she owned, and
he had his well-marked preferences. He never made direct love, nor attempted to touch her.
She felt the growing attraction, enjoyed it, but did not analyze it. She merely considered
Ben Sansome as "nice," as needing guidance, as romantic----

Occasionally, after seeing more than usual of him, some feeling of reaction or some faint stirring
of conscience would impel her--perhaps to convince herself of the harmlessness of it all--to
make an especial effort to draw her husband out of his preoccupation into more human relations.
She dressed with great care, earlier than usual; she gathered flowers for the vases, she fussed
about lighting lamps, placing ash trays and chairs, generally arranging the setting for his
welcome home. The preparations kindled her own enthusiasm. She became herself quite worked
up in anticipation. When she heard his step, she ran to meet him in the hall. Keith happened
to be tired to the point of exhaustion.

"Good heavens!" was his comment; "are we having company to-night? Why all the clothes and illumination?"

His relaxed, dispirited manner of removing and hanging up his coat reacted upon her instantly.
Her high spirits sank to the depths. They ate their meal in almost complete silence. Nan could
not help visualizing Sansome's appreciation of such an occasion.

XXXI

The new coherence in society began to manifest itself in one important way: public gambling
declined. In the "old days" it was said that everybody but clergymen frequented the big gambling
halls. They were a sort of club. But now the most influential citizens began to stay away.
Probably they gambled as much as ever, but they took such pleasures in private. Two or three
only of the larger places remained in business. Save for them, open gambling was confined to
the low dives near the water front. There was no definite movement against the practice. It
merely fell off gradually.

During these busy years the Sherwoods had quite methodically continued to lead their customary
lives. He read his morning paper on the veranda of the Bella Union, talked his leisurely politics,
drove his horses, and in the evening attended to his business. She drove abroad, received her
men friends, gave them impartial advice and help in their difficulties, dressed well, and carried
on a life of many small activities. The Sherwoods were always an attractive looking and imposing
couple, whenever they appeared. About three or four times a year they drove into the residential
part of town and made a half-dozen formal calls--on the Keiths among others. Probably their
lives were more nearly ordered on a routine than those of any other people in the new city.

One afternoon Sherwood came in at the usual hour, deposited his high hat carefully on the table,
flicked the dust off his boots, and remarked casually:

"Patsy, I've sold the business."

Mrs. Sherwood was pinning on her hat. She stopped short, her hand halfway to her head, as though
turned to marble. After a moment she asked in a quick, stifled voice:

"What do you mean?"

"Well," replied Sherwood, continuing methodically to readjust his dress, "I've been thinking
for some time that times were changing. The gambling business is losing tone. I don't see the
same class of people I used to see. Public sentiment--of the very best people, I mean--is drifting
away from it. In the future, in my judgment, it's not going to pay as it ought. I've been thinking
these things for some time. So when a bona fide purchaser came along----"

But he got no further. With a smothered cry she let her arms drop. Her customary poise had
vanished. She flung herself on him, laughing, crying, gasping.

"Why, Patsy! Patsy!" he cried, patting her small, sleek head as it pressed against his shoulder.
"What is it, dearie? Tell me? What's wrong?"

He was vastly perturbed and anxious, for she was not at all the type that loses control readily.

"Nothing! nothing!" she gasped. "I'll be all right in a minute. Don't mind me. Just let me
alone. Only you told me so suddenly----"

"Don't you want me to sell?" he asked, utterly bewildered.

Gradually he gathered from her disjointed exclamations that this was just the one thing she
had wanted, secretly, for years; the thing she had schooled herself not to hope for; the last
thing in the world she had expected. And to his astonishment he gathered further that now she
was free she could take her place with the other women----

"But I hadn't the slightest idea you wanted to!" he interrupted at this point. "You've never
showed any signs of paying the slightest attention to them before!"

She was drying her eyes, and looking a little happily foolish.

"I knew better than to give them a chance to snub me," she told him. "Now I'm respectable."

But at this Sherwood reared his crest.

"Respectable!" he snorted, "What do you mean? Haven't you always been respectable? I'd like
to see anybody who would hint--"

"You're a dear, but you're a man," she broke in more calmly. "Don't you know that a gambler's
wife isn't respectable--in their sense of the word?"

"But every mother's son of them gambles!" cried Sherwood. "It's a perfectly legal and legitimate
occupation!"

"The men do; we'd always get along if it was only a question of the men. But the women make
distinctions--"

"Look here!" he broke out wrathfully. "There's Dick Blatchford mixed up in dirty work for dirty
money I wouldn't lay my fingers on; and Terry, or Brannan, or McGowan, or all the rest of the
boodling, land-grabbing, pettifogging crew! Why, if I made my living or spare cash the way
that gang of pirates and cutthroats do I'd carry a pair of handcuffs for myself. Honest! Respectable!
I've got no kick on their methods; it's, none of my business. But their wives are all right.
I don't see it!"

"It's all names, I acknowledge," she soothed, "just names, I attach no more weight to them
than you do. Don't you suppose I'd have said something if I had thought you were doing anything
wrong? But that's the way they play the game, and it is their game. If we play it we've got
to accept their rules. Don't you see?"

"Well, it's a mighty poor game," grumbled Sherwood, "and they strike me as an exceptionally
stupid lot of women. They'd drive me to drink. I don't see what you want to bother with them for."

"They are," she agreed. "They won't amuse me much--you couldn't understand --it's just the
idea of it--But I won't be looked down on, even by my inferiors! Tell me, Jack, when we sell
the business are we going to be wealthy, will we have plenty of money?"

A hurt look came into his fine, straightforward eyes.

"Haven't you always had all you wanted, Patsy?" he inquired.

"Of course I have, you old goose! But I want to know what our resources are before I plan my
campaign."

"Going in up to your neck, are you?" he commented ruefully.

She nodded. Her eyes were bright, and a spot of colour glowed in either cheek.

"Course I am. What can I spend?"

"You can have whatever you want."

"That's too vague, too indefinite. How rich--or poor--are we going to be?"

"We'll be rich enough."

"Very?"

"Well--yes, very. The business has paid, investments have panned out. I got a good cash purchase
price."

"How much can I spend a year?" she persisted. "It doesn't matter whether it's much or little,
but I want to know."

"What a mercenary little creature!" he cried facetiously, then sobered as he saw by the expression
of her face that this, apparently trivial thing meant a great deal to her. "Oh, fifty thousand
or so won't cripple us."

"A year?" she breathed, awed.

He nodded.

"Oh!" she cried rapidly. "Then we'll have a house--a house built for our very own selves, our
very own plans!"

"Why, I thought we were very comfortable here!" he protested, a little dismayed. "Haven't we
room enough? I'll make Rebinot cut a door----"

"No! no! no! a house of my own!" She was on fire with excitement, walking restlessly up and
down. He watched her a moment or so. His slower imagination was kindling. He was beginning
to grasp the symbolism of it, what it meant to her, the release of long-pent secret desires.
As she passed him, he seized her and drew her gently to his knee.

"Patsy!" he cried contritely, "I didn't realize! I didn't guess you weren't perfectly contented
here!"

She brushed his cheek with hers.

"Of course you didn't," she reassured him.

"If you'd the slightest----"

She threw her head back proudly, her breast swelled.

"I married you to lead your life. Jack, whatever it was," she told him, "to be your helpmate."

"You're the game little sportsman in this town!" he cried. "And if you want to make those flub-dubs
crawl, by God you sail in! I'll back you!"

Ten minutes later she asked him:

"What are you going to do, yourself, Jack? Somehow, I can't imagine you idle."

"Well," said Sherwood, "the boys are organizing a stock exchange, and it struck me that it
might be a good idea if I went into that."

She began to laugh softly, in affectionate amusement.

"Stop it!" he commanded indignantly. "I know that laugh, What have I done now?"

"I was just thinking what a nice, respectable gambler you are going to be now," she said, "It's
in your blood, Jack, and I love it--but it's funny!"

XXXII

But now, at the very sources, the full flood of the somewhat turbid tide of prosperity was
beginning to fail. The ebb had not yet reached the civic consciousness. It would have required
a philosopher, and a detached philosopher at that, to have connected cause and effect, to have
forecast the inevitable trend of events. If there were any philosophers they were not detached!
Nobody had discovered the simple truth that extravagance, graft, waste, cost money; and that
the money must come from somewhere. Realization on its property and taxes were the twin sources
of the city's revenues. The property was now about all sold or swindled away. Remained the
taxes. And it is a self-evident truth that people will pay high taxes cheerfully only so long
as they themselves are making plenty of money easily.

Up to this period such had been the case. Prices had been high, wages had been high, opportunities
had been many. Enormous profits had been the rule. Everybody had invariably made money. These
conditions upset the mental balance of the shipping merchants back East. A madness seemed to
obsess them for sending goods to California. The mere rumour of a want or a lack was answered
by immense shipments of that particular commodity. The first cargo to arrive supplied the want;
all the rest simply broke the market. It was a gamble as to who should get there first. The
immediate and picturesque consequence was a fleet of beautiful clipper ships, built like racing
yachts, with long clean lines and snowy sails. They made extraordinarily fast voyages, and
they promptly condemned to death the old- fashioned, slow freight carriers. Indeed, four-hundred
odd of these actually rotted at anchor in the bay; it had not paid to move them! Some of these
clippers gained vast reputations: the Flying Cloud, the White Squall, the Typhoon, the Trade
Wind. The markets were continually in a state of glut with goods sold at auction. This condition
tightened the money market, which in turn reacted on other branches of industry. Again, the
great fires of '49-'53 resulted in the erection of too many fireproof buildings. Storage was
needed, and rentals were high, so everybody plunged on storehouses. By '54 many hundreds of
them stood vacant, representing loss. At that period the first abundance of the placers began
to fall off.

Agriculture was beginning to be undertaken seriously; and while this would be an ultimate source
of wealth, its immediate effect was to diminish the demand for imported foodstuffs--another
blow to a purely mercantile city.

All this made for excitement, some immediate gain, but a sure ultimate loss. Markets fluctuated
wildly. A ship in sight threw operators into a fever. No one knew what she might be carrying,
or how she would, affect prices. It was, therefore, positively unsafe to keep-many goods is
stock. Quick, immediate sales were the rule. And failures were many.

Now in these middle fifties the pinch was beginning at last to itself felt. Everybody was a
little vague about it all, and nobody had gone so far as to formulate his dissatisfactions
or his remedies. The tangible result was the formation of two as yet inchoate elements, representing
the extremes of ideas and of interests.

