It is clear from these words that the copy of Tacitus which Bracciolini received in October
1427 from his friend Niccoli so very badly written in Lombard letters as to be for the most
part indistinguishable, could not have been for his own reading, nor for his making a copy
of it as he was in the habit of doing with the ancient classics, but from his saying that it
could not be correctly read by a transcriber, it must have been for the purpose of placing
it in the hands of such a person. But why should he put such a Tacitus in the hands of a transcriber?
Let the reader ask himself that question; and his reply will be, that it could have been with
no other object than that the History and the other works of Tacitus should be copied into
the oldest characters that could be obtained by Bracciolini; with this further and more important
motive in view, to add to the acknowledged works of Tacitus the new portion that had just been
forged, all uniformly transcribed in the same equally old letters in order to deceive the world
as to the very great antiquity, and, consequently, the implied authenticity of the fabrication.
Bracciolini is, accordingly, most anxious to get a very old copy of Tacitus. "Take care, therefore,"
he continues in his letter to Niccoli, "that I have another, if it can be done; but you can
do it, if you will strive your utmost":--"ideo cura ut alium habeam, si fieri potest; poteris
autem, si volueris nervos intendere" (ibid). His anxiety also is very great for the transcriber
to set to work at once by his adding: "You have, however, sent me the book without the parchment.
I know not the state of mind you were in when you did this, except that you were as mad as
a March hare. For what book can be transcribed, if there be not the parchment? Have a care
to it, then, and, also, to a second manuscript, but, above all, keep in mind the vellum."--"Tu
tamen misisti librum sine chartis, quod nescio qua mente effeceris, nisi ut poneres lunam in
Ariete. [Endnote 303] Qui enim potest liber transcribi desint Pergamenae? Cura ergo de eis,
et item de altero codice, sed primum de chartis confice" (ibid).

The parchment came in good time, as well as a second old copy of Tacitus that could be read
by a transcriber.

V. This was the 2lst of October, 1427. Exactly eleven months and ten days elapsed, during the
whole of which time nothing more is heard about old copies of Tacitus and transcriptions on
calfskin; all again went on in profound silence and secresy till the llth of September, 1428,
when the mountain again laboured; and a little bit of news that dropped from Bracciolini bore
a close resemblance to the appearance of a small mouse: "Not a word," says he, "of Cornelius
Tacitus from Germany; nor have I heard thence any further news of his works," showing that
this must have been in reply to some remark in a letter of Niccoli's expressing surprise, it
may be, at the very long time that was being taken in the transcription of the works of Tacitus
with the additional new bit:--"Cornelius Tacitus silet inter Germanos, neque quicquam exinde
novi percepi de ejus operibus" (Ep. III. 19).

Evidently the needy, ignorant, stupid monk of Hirschfeldt was not over busy in the Abbey of
Fulda transcribing the forgery of Bracciolini and incorporating it with the works of Tacitus
in closely copied Lombard characters of great antiquity. The monk was not only slow at his
work; he was also negligent; for when he went to Rome in the winter following, and should have
taken his transcript to Bracciolini, he had left it behind him at the abbey. "The Hirschfeldt
monk has come without the book," writes Bracciolini angrily to Niccoli on the 26th February,
1429; "and I gave him a sound rating for it; he has given me his assurance that he will be
back aoain soon for he is carrying on a suit about his abbey in the law-courts, and will bring
the book. He made heavy demands upon me; but I told him I would do nothing for him until I
have the book; I am, therefore, in hopes that I shall have it, as he is in need of my good
offices":--"Monachus Hersfeldensis venit absque libro; multumque est a me increpatus ob eam
causam; asseveravit se cito rediturum, nam litigat nomine Monasterii, et portaturum librum.
Rogavit me multa; dixi me nil facturum, nisi librum haberemus; ideo spero et illum nos haberemus,
quia eget favore nostro " (Ep. III. 29).

VI. As he anticipated, the book ultimately turned up; it might have been in a week or two,
or it might not have been till two or three months after; for in a letter that bears the date
of neither the year nor the day,--(which I think was sometime in March 1429, though the Chevalier
de Tonelli, in his Collection of the Letters of Bracciolini, conjectures must have been in
the first week in May,--some time before the 6th of that month,)--a passage occurs in which
Bracciolini informs his friend Niccoli that, as far as himself was concerned, everything was
"now complete with respect to the 'Little Work,' concerning which he would on some future opportunity
write to him, and at the same time send it to him to read in order to get his opinion of it":
"Ego jam Opusculum absolvi, de quo alias ad te scribam, et simul legendum mittam, ut exquirendum
judicium tuum" (Ep. III. 30). I take it that he is here alluding in his customary jesting manner
(from his writing "opusculum" with a big O, to his "great" undertaking, the Annals. If he is
not joking, but serious, he must, then, of course, be referring to his treatise, "De Avaritia,"
which is, certainly, a "little affair," and which he wrote in 1429. However, the monk in the
Abbey of Fulda, who had taken a very long time in his transcription of the forgery, had finished
his work by the 26th of February, 1429, and must have placed it in Bracciolini's hands a little
before or after the month of March in that year.

The deed was then now done. With the consummation of the forgery, all that correspondence suddenly
came to an end which had been carried on for years by Bracciolini with Niccoli relative to
Tacitus; that correspondence has given much additional colouring of truthfulness to the theory
I have proposed to myself to uphold; if there had been nothing else convincing, it should,
by itself, leave no shadow of a shade of doubt that Bracciolini forged the Annals of Tacitus.

I. We have, then, seen, how, from the inception to the commencement of the forgery;--how, from
its first suggestion to Bracciolini by Lamberteschi and its approval by Niccoli in February,
1422, down to the finishing of the transcription by the monk of the Abbey of Fulda in February,
1429, and its delivery into the hands of Bracciolini in probably the month following, seven
years elapsed. The time was, certainly, long enough for the fabrication to have been elaborated
into the remarkable completeness by which it is distinguished, and which secured the signal
success with which, to all appearances, it was immediately, as it has all along, been attended.
Nearly two years were passed in considering how the last Six Books of the Annals could best
be done: the composition of those few books was commenced about January, 1424, and completed
by May, 1427: several months were then occupied in endeavouring to procure the oldest copy
of Tacitus that could be got to serve as a guide for the copyist, nor was it until October,
1427, that the transcriber was supplied with a copy in small Lombard characters; the transcription
was then begun, and, after a year and a few months, in February, 1429, the work was finally
completed, and next month probably placed in the hands of the fabricator.

Throughout this we see the exercise of an exceeding caution from the beginning to the end which
would have provided against all mistakes and mischances, if it were in the power of man to
be on his guard against all mischances and mistakes in an achievement of such a description.
We have pointed out a few of these mistakes; they may in some instances be considered trifling;
looked at from one point of view, trifling they are; but looked at from another point of view,
they are most important, nay, startling, because they are mistakes that could not, in any instance,
have been made by Tacitus; in several instances they could not have been made by any ancient
Roman whomsoever.

Still, the wonder is, not that Bracciolini made these mistakes, but that he did not make a
great many more. As for the general merit of his achievement, it is actually marvellous;--the
most phenomenal thing ever known to have been done in literature. It has not come within the
scope of this inquiry that I should point out the successes of Bracciolini in imitating Tacitus:
suffice it that they are sustained, continuous, close, felicitous, wonderful;--so much so that
frequently in the pursuing of this investigation I have been induced to throw it aside as a
mere barren paradox instead of a thoroughly sound hypothesis, aye, based on a foundation as
firm as the Great Pyramid; but every now and then the occurrence of some mistake, which, though
at the first glance, it looked very small, nay, insignificant,--of no importance whatever,
yet considered more minutely, it bulked out into an egregious, colossal, monstrous blunder
which made it impossible for me to believe that the Annals was a production by Tacitus.

If errors pointed out in language or style, in statements or grammar, have shaken the reader's
faith in the authenticity of the Annals, that faith must have been still more shaken by the
mysterious allusions made by Bracciolini in his letters to Niccoli about Tacitus; the conjectures
I have hazarded on these must have gained additional force when references followed to an unknown
monk of Hirschfeldt, with mention of copies of Tacitus in Lombard writing, parchment for transcription,
and other matters denoting the completion of a literary work in those days.

II. Now, if there be any truth in my theory,--if Bracciolini really forged the Annals,--further,
if a transcript of it was made by a monk of the Abbey of Fulda, and if the manuscript is still
in existence, it must necessarily be the oldest containing the last six books of the Annals;
I will add this more, that if there be one place more likely than another where it would be
found, it is the city whence the offer emanated, namely, Florence, and if there be one library
more likely than another where it would be deposited, it is the library founded by (for a reason
that will be immediately seen) the Medici family. Well, it does so happen that the oldest MS.
of Tacitus containing the last six books of the Annals is really preserved in Florence; and
in that library, the foundation of which was laid by Cosmo de' Medici, and which is known by
the name of the Mediceo-Laurentian Library.

III. There can be very little doubt that Cosmo de' Medici was the famous individual,--the very
rich man, for whom the three Florentines, Lamberteschi, Niccoli, and Bracciolini, conspired
to get up a forgery of Tacitus. It certainly never once comes out in the correspondence, in
language that can be considered "totus, teres atque rotundus," that the man who was imposed
upon by Bracciolini and his two accomplices, and who was shamefully deceived into paying the
little fortune of five, six, or even more hundred gold sequins for a forgery, was their own
most affectionate, intimate, and eminent friend, the merchant of a fortune that placed him
on a level with the princes of Italy, Cosmo de' Medici;--but Cosmo de' Medici it was: any other
man than he would have jumped at such an offer as having the whole history of Livy, instead
of a small fragment of Tacitus, which Bracciolini was positive that he could get (because he
was positive that he could forge it); but the illustrious Florentine peremptorily refused the
offer, there being no other historian whom he liked so much as Tacitus, nor whom he read with
so much pleasure and profit, as borne testimony to by Vossius in his Treatise on the Roman
Historians, when speaking of Tacitus in terms which lend additional strength to the truth of
our theory of forgery. "The diction of Tacitus," he says, "is more florid and exuberant in
the books of the History, terser and drier in the Annals: meanwhile he is staid and eloquent
in both: no other historian was read with equal pleasure by Cosmo de' Medici, the Duke of Tuscany,
a man, who, if there was one, possessed the greatest genius for statesmanship, and was clearly
made to rule": --"Dictio Taciti floridior uberiorque in Historiarum est libris, pressior, sicciorque
in Annalibus. Interim gravis utrobique et disertus. Non alium Historicum aeque lectitaret Cosmus
Medices, Hetruriae Dux, vir, si quis alius, civilis prudentiae intelligentis- simus, planeque
ad imperandum factus" (Vossius. De Historicis Latinis. Lib. I. c. 30. p. 146). Muretus says
the same in the second volume of his Orations (Orat. XVIII.): "Cosmo de' Medici, who was the
first Grand Duke of Tuscany, a man made to rule, who laid down the doctrine, that that which
is commonly called good fortune consists in wise and prudent conduct, delighted in the works
of Tacitus; and from the reading of them he derived the most excessive enjoyment":--"Cosmus
Medices, qui primus Magnus Etruriae Dux fuit, homo factus ad imperandum, qui eam, quae vulgo
fortuna dicitur, in consilio et prudentia consistere docuit, Taciti libros in deliciis habebat;
eorumque lectione avidissime fruebatur."--

IV. We may here observe parenthetically that both Vossius and Muretus err in speaking of Cosmo
de' Medici, the former as "the Duke," the second as the "First Grand Duke" of Tuscany: it was
not till the sixteenth century that the members of that family obtained the absolute sovereignty:
in the fifteenth century there was, as Roscoe says in his Life of Lorenzo de' Medici (p. 6),
no "prescribed or definite compact" between them and the people; the authority which Cosmo
de' Medici exercised consisted, according to that correct and elegant writer, "rather in a
tacit influence on his part, and a voluntary acquiescence on that of the people."

That Roscoe was quite right can be seen by consulting a contemporary writer, Bartolommeo Fazio;
in the biographical sketches that he has given of the most illustrious men of his time, who
distinguished themselves as poets, orators, lawyers, physicians, painters, sculptors, private
citizens, generals, and kings and princes, he has placed Cosmo de' Medici under the heading,
"Of Some Private Citizens," ("De Quibusdam Civibus Privatis"); furthermore, he speaks of him
in the following terms: --"As a civilian he was exceedingly rich, being not only the wealthiest
of all the private men of our age, but in that respect to be compared, moreover, with princes
of no mean standing": --"Divitiis civilem modum longe excessit omnium non tantum privatorum
hominum nostrae tempestatis locupletissimus, sed etiam cum non mediocribus principibus ea re
conferendus" (Bartol. Facius. De Viris Illustribus, p. 57. Flor. Ed. 1745).

After he has spoken of the active part that Cosmo de' Medici took in the administration of
public affairs, and the valuable advice that he gave in matters pertaining to war;--of the
churches and other public buildings that he erected at his own expense;--the numbers of men
whom he raised to public posts;--his beneficence to the poor;--his liberality to foreigners;--his
hospitality to his countrymen; and the wonderful way in which he had adorned and embellished
his private mansion with Tuscan marble;--Fazio ends by saying that, "in authority and estimation
he was unquestionably the PRINCE of his native city":--"Auctoritate et existimatione haud dubie
civitatis suae PRINCEPS" (ibid. p. 58). Here we see the cause of the error committed by Vossius,
Muretus, and a number of historians; not only this phrase of Fazio's, but the manner in which
contemporary Florentines thought of and demeaned themselves towards Cosmo de' Medici.

We may further state, while thus digressing, that, from what Fazio says, we know that Cosmo
de' Medici was a great lover of books; for Fazio informs us in his notice of Niccolo Niccoli
that Cosmo de' Medici had his library in the magnificent church which at his own cost he had
erected in Florence, namely, St. Mark's, ("bibliothecae, quae erat in Marci Evangelistae Templo,
quam Cosmus Medices effecerat" (Facius. De Viris Illust. p. 12); "this library he had built
on a very extensive scale," and "adorned" it "with an infinite number of volumes of both Greek
and Latin authors, of all kinds, and every degree of merit, some of which he had got at heavy
expense from various quarters, others being copies contracted for with transcribers":--"bibliothecam,
quam amplissimam aedificavit, infinitis librorum voluminibus tum Greacorum, tum Latinorum,
cujusque ordinis, ac facultatis exornavit partim undique magno impendio quaesitis, partim conductis
librariis exscriptis" (ibid. p. 57).

But to return.--

We see, then, from two such reliable authorities as Vossius and Muretus, that Cosmo de' Medici
took a special delight in Tacitus, and ardently enjoyed reading him. We can thus clearly perceive,
why it was when a forgery was to be undertaken, it was of an ancient classic, and the selection
made was a continuance to the History of Tacitus: we, also, know how natural it was when Bracciolini
found, after deliberation and a trial, that there was little or no sympathy between him and
Tacitus, and, certainly, no identity of genius, that he should strive his utmost to cast off
such a heavy burden and endeavour to carry a lighter load by fabricating a continuation of
Livy; but no guinea is required to be spent for a visit to the seance of a medium, to call
up the spirit of Cosmo de' Medici by the rapping of a table: in the first place, the spirit
would be sure not to come, however hard the table might be rapped, from fear of being addressed
in Latin or Italian, as spirits are always sulky when they speak languages that are unknown
to the medium: in the second place, after what we hear from Vossius and Muretus about the historical
studies of the enlightened Princely Florentine, we want no ghost of his to come from the grave,
and tell us that he would not have taken one entire book of Livy for one little page of Tacitus.
Hence Bracciolini was forced to go on with a forgery that went against his grain; but, uncongenial
as it was, he executed it with the skill and power that showed the master mind.

V. The manuscript in the Mediceo-Laurentian library is known as the Second Florence MS.; all
the other MSS. of the last six books of the Annals are copies of it: as James Gronovius puts
it, "emanated" from it: "ex hoc codice omnia alia scripta Taciti exemplaria fluxisse"; just
as the other Florentine MS. is the only one containing all the books of the Annals, or as Ernesti
says: "it is unique: we have no other manuscript of those books: --"ille unus est, nec alium
scriptum illorum librorum codicem habemus;" there was no necessity making many transcripts
of the latter codex, for printing had come into use a good half century before it was found,--or,
more properly, said to have been found, --in the Abbey of Corvey.

Both these manuscripts are spurious; though it concerns us for the present only to deal with
the Second or earlier one:--Of the First or later one I will speak at the proper time.

The second Florence MS., if a forgery, ought to have many suspicious marks about it to denote
that it is a fabrication; and, perhaps, there does not exist in the world a more suspicious
manuscript, not in one, but sundry, respects.

In the first place, it is written in Lombard characters; of which the Benedictines in their
"Nouveau Traite de Diplomatique," give both a description and a specimen; and from the specimen
given, the characters are small and elegant, some being high and ending in volutes or curves,
while there is a "mingling of capitals and cursives."

But why should the manuscript have been written in Lombard characters at all? It would seem
simply in order to give it an air of excessively great antiquity;--but a more fatal mistake
could not possibly have been made.

We know from the letters that Bracciolini wrote to Niccoli that he wanted a very old copy of
Tacitus to serve as a guide to the transcriber at Hirschfeldt: Niccoli sent him a Tacitus in
Lombard characters; his objection to it was not that the characters were Lombard, but that
they were "half-effaced" ("caduca"). We may, therefore, conclude that the copy finally sent
to him as a guide for the transcriber, was, also, in Lombard characters; those not "half-effaced,"
but clear and legible; it is a pity for them, but a good job for me, that he or Niccoli, or
both, did not know that Lombard characters were not in use in the century when they wanted
it to appear that their forgery was in existence; for they indulged in a trick to make the
reader believe that the MS. was in existence at the close of the fourth century at the very
latest; and, perhaps, a hundred or two hundred years before, for they put a note at the end,
by which the reader is given to understand, to his mighty surprise, that the manuscript was
in the hands of that illustrious Heathen Philosopher, Salustius, not the Syrian and Cynic,
of whom an account is given by Suidas, Photius, Fabricitis and others, for he lived in the
fifth century, but the Gaul and Platonist, who flourished in the preceding century, of whom
Fabricius said that he would "rather ascribe to him who was the friend of the Emperor Julian
and the Platonist, than to the other Salustius, who was the Cynic, the elegant treatise that
was extant, "On the Gods and the World";--"huic potius Juliani, Platonico, quam alteri Cynico
Salustio tribuerim libellum elegantem, qui exstat [Greek: peri Theon kai kosmou]" (Biblioth.
Graec. Lib. III. c. 9); Theodoretus also speaks of him in his [Greek: Historia Ekklaesiastikae]
(Lib. I. 3), as well as the Emperor Julian in one of his Orations (VIII.) and Ammianus Marcellinus
in the 21st and 23rd books of his History. Now, the very fact that Ammianus Marcellinus speaks
of this Salustius is the very reason why he should have been selected to be the corrector of
the forged MS.; we have already said more than once, --and it cannot be too often impressed
upon the reader,--that Bracciolini found the historical books of Ammianus Marcellinus; to all
appearances, he had most carefully studied them: it was therefore, from his being quite familiar
with the pages of Marcellinus, that he had Salustius suggested to him as the best individual
to write the note.

The note is to the effect that Salustius had read and corrected the manuscript when he was
residing in Rome during the Consulate of Olibrius and Probinus, and that he had again revised
it at Constantinople in the Consulate of Caesarius and Atticus.--"Ego Salustius legi et emendavi
Romae felix, Olibio et Probino vc. Coss. in foro Martis controversias declamans oratori Endelechio.
Rursus Constantinopoli recognovi Caesario et Attico Consulibus". Olibrius (not Olibius) and
Probinus were the two last consuls in the reign of the Emperor Theodosius; that, therefore,
gives the date 395; and Caesarius and Atticus were the consuls in the second year of the Emperor
Arcadius, so that that gives the date 397.

All the editors of Tacitus cast no doubt on the authenticity of these words; they believe they
were actually written by Salustius; the fact is, they have not the slightest suspicion of forgery;
under which circumstance, they had no other alternative but to regard the manuscript as a palimpsest,
with everything erased except these words, which they believed ought also to have been expunged,
as appertaining to the previous, and not the existing MS., and which remained through the negligence
of the transcriber. Pichena, accepting everything as genuine, was of opinion that the manuscript
was as old as 395; this is an opinion that everybody considers ridiculous, on account of the
characters being Lombard, it not being until the sixth century that the Lombards came into
Italy, until which date all Latin manuscripts were written in Roman characters.

On account of this, there has arisen, among, the cognoscente of codices, an interminable controversy
attended by a startling divergence of opinion with respect to the length of the existence of
this manuscript.

Unable to agree with Pichena, Jarnes Gronovius, nevertheless, places it at such an "immense
distance in antiquity from all the others," that one must suppose he considered it coeval with
the immediate arrival of the Lombards into Italy, and, therefore, about the sixth century.
Exterus and Panckoucke, entertaining pretty much the same opinion as James Gronovius, date
its origin from the seventh or eighth century.

A man who took an enormous interest in all literary matters of this description, Cardinal Passionei,
deputed, in the middle of the last century, one of the most skilful experts in manuscripts
in Italy, Signor Botari, to ascertain the age of this puzzling codex. Botari naturally applied
to the principal keeper of the Mediceo-Laurentian Library, Signor Biccioni, who, after consulting
with his colleague, Signor Martini, came to the conclusion that it did not date further back
than the eighth century.

The Benedictine Brothers, who tell this anecdote, are themselves of opinion that the manuscript
is not older than the tenth century; and for these reasons, "the characters, the distance between
the words, the punctuation, and some other signs" which are indicative, they say, of that century:
"les caracteres, la distance des mots, la ponctuation et plusieurs autres signes marquent tout
au plus le Xe siecle" (t. III. p. 279).

Other men have given other opinions of the age of this manuscript; Ernesti, for example, believes
that it is as old as the 11th century; others say the 13th; others again give some other time;
whereas the exact date is known to the reader, who is aware that it first saw the light in
February or March, 1429.

But about this writing of Salustius. Further imposture is shown by what the Philosopher is
made to say about his "declaiming controversies" in the Forum of Mars before the Orator Endelechius.
There is nothing to show that Salustius, (though he was in Gaul, the prefect in the praetorium,
while Julian, the Apostate, was proconsul), was ever in Rome. It is doubtful whether Salustius
and Endelechius ever were together; for though both flourished in the time of the Emperor Theodosius,
one lived in Rome and the other in Constantinople.

