Mr. Justice Newton.--There is a very stiff Indian-ink copy of a portrait in the Sutherland
Illustrated Clarendon, in the Bodleian Library, the original of which I should be glad to trace.
It is described in the Catalogue to be "by Bulfinch," {529} which is probably a mistake. It
bears the following inscription:

    "This is drawn from the painting in the hands of Mr. Justice Newton of
    the Middle Temple."

Can any one inform me when this learned justice lived; or rather, for it concerns me more,
when he died? And farther, if it be not too hopeless an inquiry to make, who his existing representatives
(if any) may be?

F. KYFFIN LENTHALL.

36. Mount Street, Grosvenor Square.

Mufti.--I hear military men employ this term, "we went in mufti:" meaning, out of uniform.
Whence is it derived?

MARIA.

Ryming and Cuculling.--In that very curious volume of extracts from The Presbytery Book of
Strathbogie, A.D. 1631-54, which was printed for the Spalding Club in 1843, occurs the following
passage:

    "George Jinkin and John Christie referred from the Session of
    Abercherder, for ryming and cuculling, called, compeird not. Ordained
    to be summonded pro 2^o."--P. 242.

Accordingly, on--

    "The said day, George Jinkin in Abercherder, being summonded for his
    ryming and cuculling, being called, compeired; and being accused of
    the foresaid fault, confessed he only spoke three words of that ryme.
    Being sharpely rebuked, and instructed of the grosnes of that sin, was
    ordained to satisfie in sackcloth, which he promised to do."--P. 245.

What was the "fault" here alluded to, and visited with a species of discipline with which the
presbytery, and those under its jurisdiction, appear to have been very familiar?

D.

Custom at the Savoy Church.--At the Savoy Church (London), the Sunday following Christmas Day,
there was a chair placed near the door, covered with a cloth: on the chair was an orange, in
a plate.

Can any of the readers of "N. & Q." inform me the meaning of this?

CERIDWEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Faithfull Teate.--I lately fell in with a small work by this divine, entitled Ter Tria, and
on the fly-leaf is a MS. note, stating that some years ago a copy of the same book was priced,
in a bookseller's catalogue in London, at 1l. 7s. 6d. I wish to learn some particulars relative
to the author, and if the work is valuable, or scarce, or both.

J. S.

    [Neither Calamy nor Brook has furnished any biographical notices of Dr.
    Faithfull Teate. When he wrote Ter Tria, in 1658, he was a "Preacher
    of the Word at Sudbury in Suffolk." A second edition of it was
    published in 1669. In 1665 appeared his Scripture Map of the
    Wildernesse of Sin," 4to. In a discourse on Right Thoughts, the
    Righteous Man's Evidence, he has the following passage, accommodated
    to his own destitute state after his ejectment: "The righteous man, in
    thinking of his present condition of life, thinks it his relief, that
    the less money he has he may go the more upon trust; the less he finds
    in his purse, seeks the more in the promise of Him that has said, 'I
    will never leave thee, nor forsake thee;' so that he thinks no man can
    take away his livelihood, unless he can first take away God's truth."
    Lowndes has given the following prices of Ter Tria: Sir M. M. Sykes,
    part iii. 626., 5s.; Nassau, part ii. 682., 8s.; White Knights, 4068.,
    1l.; Bibl. Ang. Poet., 764., 1l. 11s. 6d.]

Kelway Family.--Can any of the readers of "N. & Q." guide me to anything like a pedigree of
the family of Kelloway, Kaloway, or Kelway; which I find from Lysons' Devonshire possessed
the manor of Mokesbean in that county from the time of Henry II.?

In the first year of Edward III., when the property of those who suffered after the battle
of Boroughbridge was restored, John de Keilewaye was found "hæres de integro sanguine" to Lord
Gifford of Brimesfield.

The last of the family appears to have been John Kelloway of Collampton in Devon, who married
Joan Tregarthian; and dying in 1530, left co-heiresses married to Greville of Penheale, Codrington
of Codrington, Harwood, and Cooke.

The arms of the family are singular, being, Argent within a bordure engrailed sable, two groving
irons in saltire sable, between four pears Or.

R. H. C.

    [The pedigree of this family will be found in two copies by Munday of
    the "Visitation of Devonshire," A.D. 1564, in the Harleian MSS. 1091.
    p. 90., and 1538, p. 2166. The only difference in the arms is, in both
    copies, that there is no bordure engrailed; but this has probably
    been added since as a difference, as was often done to distinguish
    families. The name is here spelt Kelloway, and the pedigree begins
    with "Thomas Kelloway of Stowford in County Devon, who married Anne,
    daughter of ---- Copleston, of ----, in county Somerset," and ends with
    "John Kelloway, who married Margery, daughter of John Arscott of
    Dunsland, and left issue Robert, who married ----, and Richard."]

Regatta.--What is the etymology of the word regatta? From whence is it derived, and when was
it first used in English to mean a boat-race?

C. B. N. C. J. S.

    [Baretti says, "Regatta, palio che si corre sull' acqua; a race run
    on water in boats. The word I take to be corrupted from Remigata, the
    art of rowing." Florio, in his Worlde of Wordes, has "Regattare,
    Ital. to wrangle, to cope or fight for the mastery." The term, as
    denoting a showy species of boat-race, was first used in this {530}
    country towards the close of the last century; for the papers of that
    time inform us, that on June 23, 1775, a regatta, a novel
    entertainment, and the first of the kind, was exhibited in the river
    Thames, in imitation of some of those splendid shows exhibited at
    Venice on their grand festivals. The whole river, from London Bridge to
    the Ship Tavern, Millbank, was covered with boats. About 1200 flags
    were flying before four o'clock in the afternoon, and vessels were
    moored in the river for the sale of liquors and other refreshments.
    Before six o'clock it was a perfect fair on both sides the water, and
    bad liquor, with short measure, was plentifully retailed. Plans of the
    regatta were sold from a shilling to a penny each, and songs on the
    occasion sung, in which "regatta" was the rhyme for "Ranelagh," and
    "royal family" echoed to "liberty."]

Coket and Cler-mantyn.--Piers Plowman says that when new corn began to be sold--

 "Waulde no beggar eat bread that in it beanes were,
  But of coket and cler-mantyn, or else of cleane wheate."

What are coket and cler-mantyn? Also, what are coronation flowers, and sops in wine?

CERIDWEN.

    [Both coket and cler-mantyn mean a kind of fine bread. Coronation
    is the name given by some of our old writers to a species of flower,
    the modern appellation of which is not clear. Sops-in-wine were a
    species of flowers among the smaller kind of single gilliflowers or
    pinks. Both these flowers are noticed by Spenser, in his Shepherd's
    Calendar for April, as follows:

     "Bring coronations and sops-in-wine
      Worn of paramours."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

CURFEW.

(Vol. vi., pp. 53. 112.)

It will be remembered that when Mr. Webster, one of the greatest of American statesmen, was
on his death-bed, in October last, he requested his son to read to him that far-famed "Elegy"
of Gray:

 "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."

The editor of the Boston Journal, after referring to this circumstance, which he says has caused
an unexampled demand for the works of Gray in the United States, goes on to give the result
of his researches in many old English works, respecting the origin and meaning of the word
curfew, which I trust will interest not only your correspondents who have written on the subject,
but also many of your readers. I glean from the clever article now before me the following
brief notices, which I have not yet met with in "N. & Q."

In King Alfred's time the curfew was rung at eight o'clock, and called the "cover fire bell,"
because the inhabitants, on hearing its peals, were obliged to cover their fires, and go to
bed. Thomson evidently refers, in the following lines, to this tyrannical law, which was abolished
in England about the year 1100:

 "The shiv'ring wretches at the curfew sound,
  Dejected sunk into their sordid beds,
  And through the mournful gloom of ancient time,
  Mused sad, or dreamt of better."

On the people finding that they could put out their fires and go to bed when they pleased,
it would appear, from being recorded in many places, that the time of ringing the curfew bell
was first changed from eight to nine o'clock, then from nine to ten, and afterwards to the
early hours of the morning. Thus we find in Romeo and Juliet:

 "The curfew bell hath rung:
 'Tis three o'clock."

In Shakspeare's works frequent mention is made of the curfew.

In Measure for Measure:

 "Duke. Who call'd here of late?
  Provost. None since the curfew rung."

In King Lear:

 "This is the foul fiend Flibertigibbet;
  He begins at curfew, and walks to the first cock."

This old English custom of ringing the curfew bell was carried by the Puritan fathers to New
England; and where is the Bostonian of middle age who does not well recollect the ringing of
the church bell at nine o'clock, which was the willing signal for labourers to retire to bed,
and for shopmen to close their shops?

Before closing this Note, may I be allowed to inform MR. SANSOM, that Charlestown is in Massachusetts,
and only separated from Boston by Charles River, which runs between the two cities. The place
to which he refers is Charleston, and in South Carolina.

W. W.

Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "SALT-PETER-MAN."

(Vol. vii., pp. 377. 433. 460.)

The statute against monopolies (21 Jac. I. c. 3.) contains a clause (sec. 10.) that its provisions
should not extend to any commission grant or letters patent theretofore made, or thereafter
to be made, of, for, or concerning the digging, making, or compounding of saltpetre or gunpowder,
which were to be of the like force and effect, and no other, as if that act had never been made.

In the famous "Remonstrance of the State of the Kingdom" agreed upon by the House of Commons
in November, 1641, there is special allusion to the vexation and oppression of the {531} subject
by purveyors, clerks of the market, and saltpetre men. (Parliamentary History, x. 67.)

Shortly afterwards was passed an act (which obtained the royal assent) giving liberty for importing
gunpowder and saltpetre, and for making of gunpowder. The preamble asserts that the importation
of gunpowder from foreign parts had of late times been against law prohibited, and the making
thereof within this realm ingrossed; whereby the price of gunpowder had been excessively raised,
many powder works decayed, this kingdom very much weakened and endangered, the merchants thereof
much damnified, many mariners and others taken prisoners and brought into miserable captivity
and slavery, many ships taken by Turkish and other pirates, and many other inconveniences had
from thence ensued, and more were likely to ensue, if not timely prevented. (17 Car. I. c. 21.)

Lord Clarendon, in reviewing the various "important laws" of the Long Parliament to which the
king assented, makes the following observations with reference to this particular act:

    "'An Act for the free making Saltpetre and Gunpowder within the
    Kingdom:' which was a part of the prerogative; and not only
    considerable, as it restrained that precious and dangerous commodity
    from vulgar hands; but, as in truth it brought a considerable revenue
    to the crown, and more to those whom the crown gratified and obliged by
    that license. The pretence for this exemption was, 'the unjustifiable
    proceeding of those (or of inferior persons qualified by them) who had
    been trusted in that employment,' by whom, it cannot be denied, many
    men suffered: but the true reason was, that thereby they might be sure
    to have in readiness a good stock in that commodity, against the time
    their occasions should call upon them."--History of Rebellion, book
    iii.

On the 3rd April, 1644, the Lords and Commons passed an ordinance for the making of saltpetre,
&c. This was grounded on the following allegations:

    "1. The great expence of gunpowder, occasioned by the then war within
    his Majesty's dominions, had well near consumed the old store, and did
    exhaust the magazines so fast, that without a larger supply, the navy
    forts and the land armies could not be furnished.

    "2. Foreign saltpetre was not in equal goodness with that of our own
    country, and the foreign gunpowder far worse conditioned and less
    forcible than that which is made in England.

    "3. Divers foreign estates had of date prohibited the exportation of
    salt-peter and gunpowder out of their own dominions and countries, so
    that there could be but little hope or future expectation of any peter
    or powder to be brought into this kingdom, as in former times, which
    would enforce us to make use of our own materials."

From these circumstances, it was held most necessary that the digging of saltpetre and making
of gunpowder should by all fit means be encouraged, at that time when it so much concerned
the public safety; nevertheless, to prevent the reviving of those oppressions and exactions
exercised upon the people, under the colourable authority of commissions granted to salt-peter-men;
which burden had been eased since the sitting of that Parliament. To the end there might not
be any pretence to interrupt the work, it was ordained that the committee of safety, their
factors, workmen, and servants, should have power and authority, (within prescribed hours)
to search and dig for saltpetre in all pigeon-houses, stables, cellars, vaults, empty warehouses,
and other outhouses, yards, and places likely to afford that earth.

The salt-peter-men were to level the ground and repair damage done by them; or might be compelled
to do so by the deputy-lieutenants, justices of the peace, or committees of parliament.

The salt-peter-men were also empowered to take carts, by the known officers, for carriage of
the liquor, vessels, and other utensils, from place to place, at specified prices, and under
limitations as to weight and distance; and they were freed from taxes and tolls for carriages
used about their works, and empowered to take outhouses, &c., for their workhouses, making
satisfaction to the owners.

This ordinance was to continue for two years, from 25th March, 1644.

An ordinance of a similar character was passed 9th February, 1652, to be in force till 25th
March, 1656 (Scobell, 231.).

By an act of the Lord Protector and Parliament, made in 1656, it was enacted that no person
or persons should dig within the houses or lands of any person or persons of the commonwealth
for the finding of saltpetre, nor take the carriages of any person or persons for the carrying
of their materials or vessels, without their leave first obtained or had. (Scobell, 377.) This
is the act referred to by BROCTUNA ("N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 434.), and by my friend MR. ISAIAH
DECK ("N. & Q.," Vol. vii., p. 460.), though I am not certain that MR. DECK'S inference be
correct, that this act was passed in consequence of the new and uncertain process for obtaining
the constituents of nitre having failed; and it is quite clear that Lord Coke could not have
referred to this act. The enactment referred to is introduced by way of proviso in an act allowing
the exportation of goods of English manufacture (inter alia, of gunpowder, when the price did
not exceed 5l. per cwt.).

Allow me, in connexion, with this subject, to refer to Cullum's History of Hawsted, 1st edition,
pp. 150. and 151., also to the statute 1 Jac. II. c. 8. s. 3., by which persons obtaining any
letters patent for the sole making or importing gunpowder are subjected to the pains and penalties
of præmunire.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge. {532}

       *       *       *       *       *

FORMS OF JUDICIAL OATHS.

(Vol. vii., p. 458.)

Will you permit me to make a few observations in reply to the Queries of MR. H. H. BREEN on
this subject?

There is hardly any custom more ancient than for a person imposing a promise on another to
call on him to bind himself by an oath to the due performance of it. In this oath the person
swearing calls on God, the king, his father, or some person or thing to whom he attaches authority
or value, to inflict on him punishment or loss in case he breaks his oath. The mode of swearing
is, in one particular, almost everywhere and in every age the same.

When a father, a friend, a sword, or any corporeal object is sworn by, the swearer places his
hand upon it, and then swears. When a man, however, swore by the Deity, on whom he cannot place
his hand, he raised his hand to heaven towards the God by whom he swore.

When Abraham made Abimelech swear to obey him, he caused him to place his hand under his thigh,
and then imposed the oath; and when Jacob, by his authority as a father, compelled his son
Joseph to swear to perform his promise, he ordered him to go through a similar ceremony. (Genesis,
ch. xxiv. v. 5., and ch. xlvii. v. 29.)

In the prophet Daniel we read that--

    "The man clothed in linen which was upon the waters, held up his right
    hand and his left hand unto heaven, and sware by Him that liveth for
    ever and ever," &c.--Daniel, ch. xii. v. 7.

Your correspondent inquires how oaths were taken prior to their being taken on the Gospel.

Among the nations who overthrew the Roman empire, the most common mode of swearing was on the
relics of the saints. In England, I think, the most common mode was to swear on the corporalia
or eucharistic elements, whence we still have the common phrase "upon your corporal oath."
In each case the hand was placed on the thing sworn by.

The laws of the Alamanni as to conjurators, direct that the sacrament shall be so arranged
that all the conjurators shall place their hands upon the coffer (containing the relics), and
that the principal party shall place his hand on all theirs, and then they are to swear on
the relics. (Ll. Alam. cap. 657.)

The custom of swearing on the Gospels is repeatedly mentioned in the laws of the Lombards.
(Ll. Longo. 1 tit. 21. c. 25.; Ll. Longo. 2. tit. 55. c. 2., and c. 2. tit. 34. et al.)

In the Formularies of Marculphus, two forms of oaths are given, one says that--

    "In palatio nostro super capella domini Martini ubi reliqua sacramenta
    percurrunt debeat conjurare."

In the other we read--

    "Posita manu supra sacrosanctium altare sancti ... sic juratus dixit.
    Juro per hunc locum sanctum et Deum altissimum et virtutis sancti ...
    quod," &c.

In the laws of Cnût of England, two forms of oath are given. They both begin with "By the Lord
before whom this relic is holy." (Ancient Laws and Justice of England, p. 179.)

Your correspondent asks "what form of Judicial oath was first sanctioned by Christians as a body?"

In the history of the Council of Constantinople, it is stated that--

    "George, the well beloved of God, a deacon and keeper of the records,
    having touched the Holy Gospels of God, swore in this manner, 'By these
    Holy Scriptures, and by the God who by them has spoken,'" &c.

At the Council of Nice it is said that--

    "Prayer having been offered up, every one saluted the Holy Gospels, the
    venerated cross and image of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and of
    our Lady the mother of God, and placed his hands upon them in
    confirmation of what he had said."

From these I infer that the custom of swearing on the Gospels received the sanction of the
church at a very early period.

In reply to the question as to other modes of swearing, it may be said briefly, that men swore
by anything to which they attached any importance, and generally by that to which they attached
most importance.

By the laws of the Alamanni, a wife could claim her Morgen-gabe (or the gift of the morning
after the wedding night) by swearing to its amount on her breast; and by the Droits d'Augsbourg,
by swearing to it on her two breasts and two tresses.

Nothing was more common than for a man to swear by his beard. This custom is alluded to by
one of Shakspeare's fools, who suggests that if a certain knight swore by his honour, and his
mistress by her beard, neither of them could be forsworn.

In the canons of the Fourth Council of Orleans, we read--

    "Le Roi lui-même, ou le plus renommé des chevaliers présents, ayant
    découpé le paon, se leva, et mettant la main sur l'oiseau, fit un voeu
    hardi; Ensuite il passa le plat, et chacun de ceux qui le reçurent fit
    un voeu semblable."

In the year 1306, Edward I. of England swore an oath on two swans.

It was also very common from an early period, both in England and abroad, to swear by one,
two, seven, or twelve churches. The deponent went {533} to the appointed number of churches,
and at each, taking the ring of the church door in his hand, repeated the oath.

One of the most curious specimens of the practice of swearing men by that to which they attached
most importance, is to be found in an Hindoo law. It says, let a judge swear a Brahmin by his
veracity; a soldier by his horses, his elephants, or his arms; an agriculturist by his cows,
his grain, or his money; and a Soudra by all his crimes.

JOHN THRUPP.

Surbiton.

I know nothing about judicial oaths: but the origin of the form MR. BREEN states to be used
by the Roman Catholics of the Continent, and the Scotch Presbyterians, may be seen in Dan.
xii. 7.: "When he held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and sware by him that
liveth for ever." And in Revelation x. 5, 6.: "And the angel ... lifted up his hand to heaven,
and sware by him," &c. See also Genesis xiv. 22.

MARIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Washing Collodion Pictures--Test for Lens.--As I was indebted to the kindness of DR. DIAMOND,
amongst other friends, for my original initiation into the mysteries of photography, it may
appear somewhat presumptuous in me to differ from one who has had so much more experience in
a point of practice. I allude to that of washing the collodion negative after developing, previously
to fixing with the hyposulphite of soda; but, probably, the reasons I urge may have some weight.
As the hyposulphite solution is intended to be used repeatedly, it appears to me not advisable
to introduce into it any free acid (which must occur if the negative be not washed, although
the quantity at each operation may be small), because it causes a decomposition of the salt,
setting free sulphurous acid, and also sulphur; which last is slightly soluble in the hyposulphite
of soda, and thus the sulphur is brought in contact with the reduced silver, and forms a sulphuret
of that metal. But the change does not stop here: for, by the lapse of time, oxygen is absorbed,
and thus a sulphate of silver is formed, and the colour changed from black to white. That sulphur
is set free by the addition of an acid to the solution of hyposulphite of soda, is fact so
easily demonstrable both to the eyes and nose of the operator, that no one need remain long
in doubt who is desirous of trying the experiment.

A correspondent desires to know how to test the coincidence or otherwise of the visual and
actinic foci of a combination: this is very readily accomplished by the aid of a focimeter,
which can be easily made thus:

Procure a piece of stout card-board, or thin wood covered with white paper, on which draw a
considerable number of fine black lines, or cover it with some fine black net (what I believe
the ladies call blond), which may be pasted on. Cut up the whole into a dozen good-sized pieces
of any convenient form, so that about four square inches of surface at least be allowed to
each piece. Paste over the net a circular or square label about the size of a shilling, bearing
a distinctly printed number one on each piece, from 1 upwards; and arrange the pieces in any
convenient manner by means of wires inserted into a slip of wood; but they must be so placed
that the whole can be seen from one point of view, although each piece must be placed so that
it is one inch farther from the operator than the next lowest number. Having placed the camera
eight or ten feet from the cards, carefully focus to any one of the numbers, 4 or 5 for instance
and observe, not that the number is distinct, but that the minute lines or threads of the net
are visible: then take a picture, exposing it a very short time, and the threads of the card
bearing the number that was most perfectly in focus visually ought to be most distinct; but,
if otherwise, that which is most distinct will not only show whether the lens is over or under
corrected, but will indicate the amount of error. If under corrected, a lower number will be
most distinct; if over corrected, a higher.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Test for Lenses.--I beg to submit to a COUNTRY PRACTITIONER the following very simple test
for the coincidence of the chemical and visual foci of an achromatic lens:

Take a common hand-bill or other sheet of printed paper, and having stretched it on a board,
place it before the lens in an oblique position, so that the plane of the board may make an
angle with a vertical plane of about thirty or forty degrees. Bring any line of type about
the middle of the sheet into the true visual focus, and take a copy of the sheet by collodion
or otherwise. Then, if the line of type focussed upon be reproduced clearly and sharply on
the plate, the lens is correct; but if any other line be found sharper than the test one, the
foci disagree; and the amount of error will depend on the distance of the two lines of type
one from the other on the hand-bill.

J. A. MILES.

Fakenham, Norfolk.

