Toronto; William Bryce, Publisher.

UNDER FALSE PRETENCES.

CONTENTS

   CHAPTER I.       Prologue to the Story
   CHAPTER II.      BY THE LOCH.
   CHAPTER III.     HUGO LUTTRELL.
   CHAPTER IV.      IN THE TWILIGHT.
   CHAPTER V.       THE DEAD MAN'S TESTIMONY.
   CHAPTER VI.      MOTHER AND SON.
   CHAPTER VII.     A FAREWELL.
   CHAPTER VIII.    IN GOWER-STREET.
   CHAPTER IX.      ELIZABETH'S WOOING.
   CHAPTER X.       BROTHER DINO.
   CHAPTER XI.      ON A MOUNTAIN-SIDE.
   CHAPTER XII.     THE HEIRESS OF STRATHLECKIE.
   CHAPTER XIII.    SAN STEFANO.
   CHAPTER XIV.     THE PRIOR'S OPINION.
   CHAPTER XV.      THE VILLA VENTURI.
   CHAPTER XVI.     "WITHOUT A REFERENCE."
   CHAPTER XVII.    PERCIVAL'S HOLIDAY.
   CHAPTER XVIII.   THE MISTRESS OF NETHERGLEN.
   CHAPTER XIX.     A LOST LETTER.
   CHAPTER XX.      "MISCHIEF, THOU ART AFOOT."
   CHAPTER XXI.     A FLASK OF ITALIAN WINE.
   CHAPTER XXII.    BRIAN'S WELCOME.
   CHAPTER XXIII.   THE WISHING WELL.
   CHAPTER XXIV.    "GOOD-BYE."
   CHAPTER XXV.     A COVENANT.
   CHAPTER XXVI.    ELIZABETH'S CONFESSION.
   CHAPTER XXVII.   PERCIVAL'S OWN WAY.
   CHAPTER XXVIII.  A REVELATION.
   CHAPTER XXIX.    CHAPTER XXIX.
   CHAPTER XXX.     FRIENDS AND BROTHERS.
   CHAPTER XXXI.    ACCUSER AND ACCUSED.
   CHAPTER XXXII.   RETRIBUTION.
   CHAPTER XXXIII.  WHAT PERCIVAL KNEW.
   CHAPTER XXXIV.   PERCIVAL'S ATONEMENT.
   CHAPTER XXXV.    DINO'S HOME-COMING.
   CHAPTER XXXVI.   BY LAND AND SEA.
   CHAPTER XXXVII.  WRECKED.
   CHAPTER XXXVIII. ON THE ROCAS REEF.
   CHAPTER XXXIX.   BETWEEN LIFE AND DEATH.
   CHAPTER XL.      KITTY.
   CHAPTER XLI.     KITTY'S FRIENDS.
   CHAPTER XLII.    A FALSE ALARM.
   CHAPTER XLIII.   TRAPPED.
   CHAPTER XLIV.    HUGO'S VICTORY.
   CHAPTER XLV.     TOO LATE!
   CHAPTER XLVI.    A MERE CHANCE.
   CHAPTER XLVII.   FOUND.
   CHAPTER XLVIII.  ANGELA.
   CHAPTER XLIX.    KITTY'S WARNING.
   CHAPTER L.       MRS. LUTTRELL'S ROOM.
   CHAPTER LI.      A LAST CONFESSION.
   CHAPTER LII.     "THE END CROWNS ALL, AND THAT IS YET TO COME."

CHAPTER I.

Prologue to the Story.

In Two Parts.

I.

It was in the year 1854 that an English gentleman named Edward Luttrell took up his abode in
a white-walled, green-shuttered villa on the slopes of the western Apennines. He was accompanied
by his wife (a Scotchwoman and an heiress), his son (a fine little fellow, five years old),
and a couple of English servants. The party had been travelling in Italy for some months, and
it was the heat of the approaching summer, as well as the delicate state of health in which
Mrs. Luttrell found herself, that induced Mr. Luttrell to seek out some pleasant house amongst
the hills where his wife and child might enjoy cool breezes and perfect repose. For he had
lately had reason to be seriously concerned about Mrs. Luttrell's health.

The husband and wife were as unlike each other as they well could be. Edward Luttrell was a
broad-shouldered, genial, hearty man, warmly affectionate, hasty in word, generous in deed.
Mrs. Luttrell was a woman of peculiarly cold manners; but she was capable, as many members
of her household knew, of violent fits of temper and also of implacable resentment. She was
not an easy woman to get on with, and if her husband had not been a man of very sweet and pliable
nature, he might not have lived with her on such peaceful terms as was generally the case.
She had inherited a great Scotch estate from her father, and Edward Luttrell was almost entirely
dependent upon her; but it was not a dependence which seemed to gall him in the very least.
Perhaps he would have been unreasonable if it had done so; for his wife, in spite of all her
faults, was tenderly attached to him, and never loved him better than when he asserted his
authority over her and her possessions.

Mr. and Mrs. Luttrell had not been at their pretty white villa for more than two months when
a second son was born to them. He was baptized almost immediately by an English clergyman then
passing through the place, and received the name of Brian. He was a delicate-looking baby,
but seemed likely to live and do well. Mrs. Luttrell's recovery was unusually rapid; the soft
Italian air suited her constitution, and she declared her intention of nursing the child herself.

Edward Luttrell was in high spirits. He had been decidedly nervous before the event took place,
but now that it was safely over he was like a boy in his joyous sense of security. He romped
with his little son, he talked patois with the inhabitants of the neighbouring village of San
Stefano, he gossiped with the monks of the Benedictine foundation, whose settlement occupied
a delightful site on the hillside, and no premonition of coming evil disturbed his heart. He
thought himself the most fortunate of men. He adored his wife; he worshipped the baby. His
whole heart was bound up in his handsome little Dick, who, at five years old, was as nearly
the image of his father as a child could be. What had he left to wish for?

There had been a good deal of fever at San Stefano throughout the summer. When the little Brian
was barely six weeks old, it became only too evident that Mrs. Luttrell was sickening of some
illness--probably the same fever that had caused so much mortality in the village. The baby
was hastily taken away from her, and a nurse provided. This nurse was a healthy young woman
with very thick, black eyebrows and a bright colour; handsome, perhaps, but not prepossessing.
She was the wife of a gardener employed at the villa, and had been recommended by one of the
Fathers at the monastery--a certain Padre Cristoforo, who seemed to know the history of every
man, woman and child in San Stefano. She was the mother of twins, but this was a fact which
the Luttrells did not know.

This woman, Vincenza Vasari by name, was at first domiciled in the villa itself with her charge;
but as more dangerous symptoms declared themselves in Mrs. Luttrell's case, it was thought
better that she should take the baby to her own home, which was a fairly clean and respectable
cottage close to the gates of the villa. Here Mr. Luttrell could visit the child from time
to time; but as his wife's illness became more serious he saw less and less of the baby, and
left it more than ever to Vincenza's care.

Vincenza's own children were with their grandmother at a hamlet three miles from San Stefano.
The grandmother, generally known as old Assunta, used to bring one or another of them sometimes
to see Vincenza. Perhaps they took the infection of fever in the course of these visits; at
any rate one of them was soon reported to be seriously ill, and Vincenza was cautioned against
taking the Luttrells' baby into the village. It was the little Lippo Vasari who was ill; his
twin-brother Dino was reported perfectly well.

Some days afterwards Mr. Luttrell, on calling at the cottage as usual, noticed that Vincenza's
eyes were red, and her manner odd and abrupt. Old Assunta was there, with the baby upon her
knee. Mr. Luttrell asked what was the matter. Vincenza turned away and burst into tears.

"She has lost her baby, signor," the old woman explained. "The little one died last night at
the village, and Vincenza could not see it. The doctor will tell you about it all," she said,
nodding significantly, and lowering her voice. "He knows."

Mr. Luttrell questioned the doctor, and received his assurance that Vincenza's child (one of
the twins) had been kept strictly apart from the little Brian Luttrell; and that there could
be no danger of infection. In which assurance the doctor was perfectly sincere, not knowing
that Vincenza's habit had been to spend a portion of almost every evening at her mother's house,
in order to see her own children, to whom, however, she did not seem to be passionately attached.

It is to be noted that the Luttrells still learned nothing of the existence of the other baby;
they fancied that all Vincenza's children were dead. Vincenza had thought that the English
lady would be prejudiced against her if she knew that she was the mother of twins, and had
left them both to old Assunta's care; so, even when Lippo was laid to rest in the churchyard
at San Stefano, the little Dino was carefully kept in the background and not suffered to appear.
Neither Mr. Luttrell nor Mrs. Luttrell (until long afterwards) knew that Vincenza had another
child.

Two months passed before Mrs. Luttrell was sufficiently restored to health to be able to see
her children. The day came at last when little Richard was summoned to her room to kiss a pale
woman with great, dark eyes, at whom he gazed solemnly, wonderingly, but with a profound conviction
that his own mamma had gone away and left her place to be filled up by somebody else. In point
of fact, Mrs. Luttrell's expression was curiously changed; and the boy's instinct discovered
the change at once. There was a restless, wandering look in her large, dark eyes which had
never been visible in them before her illness, except in moments of strong excitement. She
did not look like herself.

"I want the baby," she said, when she had kissed little Richard and talked to him for a few
moments. "Where is my baby?"

Mr. Luttrell came up to her side and answered her.

"The baby is coming, Margaret; Vincenza is bringing him." Then, after a pause--"Baby has been
ill," he said. "You must be prepared to see a great change in him."

She looked at him as if she did not understand.

"What change shall I see?" she said. "Tell Vincenza to make haste, Edward. I must see my baby
at once; the doctor said I might see him to-day."

"Don't excite yourself, Margaret; I'll fetch them," said Mr. Luttrell, easily. "Come along,
Dick; let us find Vincenza and little brother Brian."

He quitted the room, with Dick at his heels. Mrs. Luttrell was left alone. But she had not
long to wait. Vincenza entered, made a low reverence, uttered two or three sentences of congratulation
on the English signora's recovery, and then placed the baby on Mrs. Luttrell's lap.

What happened next nobody ever precisely knew. But in another moment Vincenza fled from the
room, with her hands to her ears, and her face as white as death.

"The signora is mad--mad!" she gasped, as she met Mr. Luttrell in the corridor. "She does not
know her own child! She says that she will kill it! I dare not go to her; she says that her
baby is dead, and that that one is mine! Mine! mine! Oh, Holy Virgin in Heaven! she says that
the child is mine!"

Wherewith Vincenza went into strong hysterics, and Mr. Luttrell strode hastily towards his
wife's room, from which the cries of a child could be heard. He found Mrs. Luttrell sitting
with the baby on her knee, but although the poor little thing was screaming with all its might,
she vouchsafed it no attention.

"Tell Vincenza to take her wretched child away," she said. "I want my own. This is her child;
not mine."

Edward Luttrell stood aghast.

"Margaret, what do you mean?" he ejaculated. "Vincenza's child is dead. This is our little
Brian. You are dreaming."

He did not know whether she understood him or not, but a wild light suddenly flashed into her
great, dark eyes. She dashed the child down upon the bed with the fury of a mad woman.

"You are deceiving me," she cried; "I know that my child is dead. Tell me the truth; my child
is dead!"

"No such, thing, Margaret," cried Mr. Luttrell, almost angrily; "how can you utter such folly?"

But his remonstrance passed unheeded. Mrs. Luttrell had, sunk insensible to the floor; and
her swoon was followed by a long and serious relapse, during which it seemed very unlikely
that she would ever awake again to consciousness.

The crisis approached. She passed it safely and recovered. Then came the tug of war. The little
Brian was brought back to the house, with Vincenza as his nurse; but Mrs. Luttrell refused
to see him. Doctors declared her dislike of the child to be a form of mania; her husband certainly
believed it to be so. But the one fact remained. She would not acknowledge the child to be
her own, and she would not consent to its being brought up as Edward Luttrell's son. Nothing
would convince her that her own baby still lived, or that this child was not the offspring
of the Vasari household. Mr. Luttrell expostulated. Vincenza protested and shed floods of tears,
the doctor, the monks, the English nurse were all employed by turn, in the endeavour to soften
her heart; but every effort was useless. Mrs. Luttrell declared that the baby which Vincenza
had brought her was not her child, and that she should live and die in this conviction.

Was she mad? Or was some wonderful instinct of mother's love at the bottom of this obstinate
adherence to her opinion?

Mr. Luttrell honestly thought that she was mad. And then, mild man as he was, he rose up and
claimed his right as her husband to do as he thought fit. He sent for his solicitor, a Mr.
Colquhoun, through whom he went so far even as to threaten his wife with severe measures if
she did not yield. He would not live with her, he said--or Mr. Colquhoun reported that he said--unless
she chose to bury her foolish fancy in oblivion. There was no doubt in his mind that the child
was Brian Luttrell, not Lippo Vasari, whose name was recorded on a rough wooden cross in the
churchyard of San Stefano. And he insisted upon it that his wife should receive the child as
her own.

It was a long fight, but in the end Mrs. Luttrell had to yield. She dismissed Vincenza, and
she returned to Scotland with the two children. Her husband exacted from her a promise that
she would never again speak of the wild suspicion that had entered her mind; that under no
circumstances would she ever let the poor little boy know of the painful doubt that had been
thrown on his identity. Mrs. Luttrell promised, and for three-and-twenty years she kept her
word. Perhaps she would not have broken it then but for a certain great trouble which fell
upon her, and which caused a temporary revival of the strange madness which had led her to
hate the child placed in her arms at San Stefano.

It was not to be wondered at that Edward Luttrell made a favourite of his second son in after
life. A sense of the injustice done him by his mother made the father especially tender to
the little Brian; he walked with him, talked with him, made a companion of him in every possible
way. Mrs. Luttrell regained by degrees the cold composure of manner that had distinguished
her in earlier life: but she could not command herself so far as to make a show of affection
for her younger son. Brian was a very small boy indeed when he found that out. "Mother doesn't
love me," he said once to his father, with grieving lips and tear-filled eyes; "I wonder why."
What could his father do but press him passionately to his broad breast and assure him in words
of tenderest affection that he loved his boy; and that if Brian were good, and true, and brave,
his mother would love him too! "I will be very good then," said Brian, nestling close up to
his father's shoulder--for he was a child with exceedingly winning ways and a very affectionate
disposition--and putting one arm round Mr. Luttrell's neck. "But you know she loves Richard
always--even when he is naughty. And you love me when I'm naughty, too." What could Mr. Luttrell
say to that?

He died when Brian was fifteen years old; and the last words upon his tongue were an entreaty
that his wife would never tell the boy of the suspicion that had turned her love to him into
bitterness. He died, and part of the sting of his death to Mrs. Luttrell lay in the fact that
he died thinking her mad on that one point. The doctors had called her conviction "a case of
mania," and he had implicitly believed them.

But suppose she had not been mad all the time!

II.

In San Stefano life went on tranquilly from month to month and year to year. In 1867, Padre
Cristoforo of the Benedictine Monastery, looked scarcely older than when he picked out a nurse
for the Luttrell family in 1854. He was a tall man, with a stooping gait and a prominent, sagacious
chin; deep-set, meditative, dark eyes, and a somewhat fine and subtle sort of smile which flickered
for a moment at the corner of his thin-lipped mouth, and disappeared before you were fully
conscience of its presence. He was summoned one day from the monastery (where he now filled
the office of sub-Prior) at the earnest request of an old woman who lived in a neighbouring
village. She had known him many years before, and thought that it would be easier to tell her
story to him than to a complete stranger. He had received her communication, and stood by her
pallet with evident concern and astonishment depicted upon his face. He held a paper in his
hand, at which he glanced from time to time as the woman spoke.

"It was not my doing," moaned the old crone. "It was my daughter's. I have but told you what
she said to me five years ago. She said that she did change the children; it was Lippo, indeed,
who died, but the child whom the English lady took to England with her was Vincenza's little
Dino; and the boy whom we know as Dino is really the English child. I know not whether it is
true! Santa Vergine! what more can I say?"

"Why did you not reveal the facts five years ago?" said the Father, with some severity of tone.

"I will tell you, Reverend Father. Because Vincenza came to me next day and said that she had
lied--that the child, Dino, was her own, after all, and that she had only wanted to see how
much I would believe. What was I to do? I do not know which story to believe; that is why I
tell both stories to you before I die."

"She denied it, then, next day?"

"Yes, Father; but her husband believed it, as you will see by that paper. He wrote it down--he
could write and read a little, which I could never do; and he told me what he had written:--'I,
Giovanni Vasari, have heard my wife, Vincenza, say that she stole an English gentleman's child,
and put her own child in its place. I do not know whether this is true; but I leave my written
word that I was innocent of any such crime, and humbly pray to Heaven that she may be forgiven
if she committed it.' Is that right, Reverend Father? And then his name, and the day and the year."

"Quite right," said Padre Cristoforo. "It was written just before Giovanni died. The matter
cannot possibly be proved without further testimony. Where is Vincenza?"'

"Alas, Father, I do not know. Dead, I think, or she would have come back to me before now.
I have not heard of her since she took a situation as maid to a lady in Turin four years ago."

"Why have you told me so useless a story at all, then?" said the father, again with some sternness
of voice and manner. "Evidently Vincenza was fond of romancing; and, probably--probably----"
He did not finish his sentence; but he was thinking--"Probably the mad fancy of that English
lady about her child--which I well remember--suggested the story to Vincenza as a means of
getting money. I wish I had her here."

"I have told you the story, Reverend Father," said the old woman, whose voice was growing very
weak, "because I know that I am dying, and that the boy will be left alone in the world, which
is a sad fate for any boy, Father, whether he is Vincenza's child or the son of the English
lady. He is a good lad, Reverend Father, strong, and obedient, and patient; if the good Fathers
would but take charge of him, and see that he is taught a trade, or put to some useful work!
He would be no burden to you, my poor, little Dino!"

For a moment the Benedictine's eyes flashed with a quick fire; then he looked down and stood
perfectly still, with his hands folded and his head bent. A new idea had darted across his
mind. Did the story that he had just heard offer him no opportunity of advancing the interests
of his Order and of his Church?

He turned as if to ask another question, but he was too late. Old Assunta was fast falling
into the stupor that is but the precursor of death. He called her attendant, and waited for
a time to see whether consciousness was likely to return. But he waited in vain. Assunta said
nothing more.

The boy of whom she had spoken came and wept at her bed-side, and Padre Cristoforo observed
him curiously. He was well worthy of the monk's gaze. He was light and supple in figure, perfectly
formed, with a clear brown skin and a face such as one sees in early Italian paintings of angelic
singing-boys--a face with broad, serious brows, soft, oval cheeks, curved lips, and delightfully
dimpled chin. He had large, brown eyes and a mass of tangled, curling hair. The priest noted
that his slender limbs were graceful as those of a young fawn, that his hands and feet were
small and well shaped, and that his appearance betokened perfect health--a slight spareness
and sharpness of outline being the only trace which poverty seemed to have left upon him.

The sub-Prior of San Stefano saw these things; and meditated upon certain possibilities in
the future. He went next day to old Assunta's funeral, and laid his hand on Dino's shoulder
as the boy was turning disconsolately from his grandmother's grave.

"My child," he said, gently, "you are alone."

"Yes, Father," said Dino, with a stifled sob.

"Will you come with me to the monastery? I think we can find you a home. You have nowhere to
go, poor child, and you will be weary and hungry before long. Will you come?"

"There is nothing in the world that I should like so well!" cried the boy, ardently.

"Come then," said the Padre, with one of his subtle smiles. "We will go together."

He held out his hand, in which Dino gladly laid his hot and trembling fingers. Then the monk
and the boy set out on the three miles walk which lay between them and the monastery.

On their arrival, Padre Cristoforo left the boy in the cool cloisters whilst he sought the
Prior--a dignitary whose permission would be needed before Dino would be allowed to stay. There
was a school in connection with the monastery, but it was devoted chiefly to the training of
young priests, and it was not probable that a peasant like Dino Vasari would be admitted to
the ranks of these budding ecclesiastics. The Prior thought that old Assunta's grandchild would
make a good helper for Giacomo, the dresser of the vines.

"Does that not satisfy you?" said Padre Cristoforo, in a rather peculiar tone, when he had
carried this proposal to Dino, and seen the boy's face suddenly fall, and his eyes fill with tears.

"The Reverend Fathers are very good," said Dino, in a somewhat embarrassed fashion, "and I
will do all that I can to serve them, and, if I could also learn to read and write--and listen
to the music in the chapel sometimes--I would work for them all the days of my life."

Padre Cristoforo smiled.

"You shall have your wish, my child," he said, kindly. "You shall go to the school--not to
the vine-dressers. You shall be our son now."

But Dino looked up at him timidly.

"And not the English lady's?" he said.

"What do you know about an English lady, my son?"

"My grandmother talked to me of her. Is it true? She said that I might, turn out to be an Englishman,
after all. She said that Vincenza told her that I did not belong to her."

"My child," said the monk, calmly but firmly, "put these thoughts away from your mind. They
are idle and vain imaginations. Assunta knew nothing; Vincenza did not always speak the truth.
In any case, it is impossible to prove the truth of her story. It is a sin to let your mind
dwell on the impossible. Your name is Bernardino Vasari, and you are to be brought up in the
monastery of San Stefano by wise and pious men. Is that not happiness enough for you?"

"Oh, yes, yes, indeed; I wish for nothing else," said Dino, throwing himself at Padre Cristoforo's
feet, and pressing his lips to the monk's black gown, while the tears poured down his smooth,
olive cheeks. "Indeed I am not ungrateful, Reverend Father, and I will never wish to be anything
but what you want me to be."

"Better so," soliloquised the Father, when he had comforted Dino with kind words, and led him
away to join the companions that would henceforth be his; "better that he should not wish to
rise above the station in which he has been brought up! We shall never prove Vincenza's story.
If we could do that, we should be abundantly recompensed for training this lad in the doctrines
of the Church--but it will never be. Unless, indeed, the woman Vincenza could be found and
urged to confession. But that," said the monk, with a regretful sigh, "that is not likely to
occur. And, therefore, the boy will be Dino Vasari, as far as I can see, to his life's end.
And Vincenza's child is living in the midst of a rich English family under the name of Brian
Luttrell. I must not forget the name. In days to come who knows whether the positions of these
two boys may not be reversed?"

Thus mused Father Cristoforo, and then he smiled and shook his head.

"Vincenza was always a liar," he said to himself. "It is the most unlikely thing in the world
that her story should be true."

END OF THE PROLOGUE.

CHAPTER II.

BY THE LOCH.

"It is you who have been the thief, then?"

The question was uttered in tones of withering contempt. The criminal, standing before his
judge with downcast face and nervously-twitching fingers, found not a word to reply.

"Answer me," said Richard Luttrell, imperatively. "Tell me the truth--or, by Heaven, I'll thrash
you within an inch of your life, and make you speak! Did you, or did you not, take this money
out of my strong-box?"

"I meant to put it back," faltered the culprit. He was a slender lad of twenty, with the olive
skin, the curling jet-black hair, the liquid-brown eyes, which marked his descent from a southern
race. The face was one of singular beauty. The curved lips, the broad brow on which the dusky
hair grew low, the oval cheek and rounded chin might well have served for the impersonation
of some Spanish beggar-boy or Neapolitan fisher-lad. They were of the subtilely sensuous type,
expressive of passion rather than of intellect or will. At present, with the usual rich, ripe
colour vanished from cheek and lips, with eyes downcast, and trembling hands dropped to his
sides, he was a picture of embodied shame and fear which his cousin and guardian, Richard Luttrell,
regarded with unmitigated disgust.

Luttrell himself was a man of very different fibre. Tall, strong, fiercely indignant, he towered
over the youth as if he could willingly have smitten him to the earth. He was a fine-looking,
broad-shouldered man of twenty-eight, with strongly-marked features, browned by exposure to
the sun and wind. The lower part of his face was almost hidden by a crisp chestnut beard and
moustache, whilst his eyes were of the reddish hazel tint which often denotes heat of temper.
The fire which now shot from beneath the severely knitted brows might indeed have dismayed
a person of stouter heart than Hugo Luttrell. The youth showed no signs of penitence; he was
thoroughly dismayed and alarmed by the position in which he found himself, but that was all.

