PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 146.

FEBRUARY 25, 1914.

CHARIVARIA.

THE GERMAN CROWN PRINCE has the mumps. It seems that his Imperial Father was not consulted
in the matter beforehand, and further domestic differences are anticipated.

       * * *

KING SISOVATH of Cambodia, we learn from Le Petit Journal, was so pleased with a white elephant
sent him by the Governor-General of French Indo-China that he has raised the animal--a fine
female--to the dignity of a Princess. The news soon got about, and considerable jealousy is
felt at our Zoo, where there is not so much as even a baronet among the inmates.

       * * *

General VON PLETTENBURGH, commanding the Prussian Guards Corps, has issued a decree against
the wearing of the so-called "tooth-brush" moustache, pointing out that such an appendage is
unsuitable for a Prussian soldier and "not consonant with the German national character." The
implication is very unpleasant.

       * * *

"It is generally reported," says a contemporary, "that Sir EDWARD GREY speaks no German, and
French very badly. M. VENIZELOS, the Greek Prime Minister, declared that he had the greatest
difficulty in understanding Sir EDWARD'S French." As a matter of fact a little bird tells us
that on this occasion our Foreign Secretary was speaking Greek.

       * * *

"Mr. Asquith," said The Times, "in a massage to the Liberal candidate for South Bucks, emphasizes
the prime importance of the Irish issue." There is, of course, nothing like massage for rubbing
things in.

       * * *

Herr BALLIN, head of the Hamburg-American Line, and Herr HEINEKEN, head of the rival North-German
Lloyd Company, came to London last week, and are said to have concluded peace in the Atlantic
rate war. We understand that the arrangement is to be known as the Pool of London.

       * * *

The authorities at Barotse, The Globe tells us, have put a price on the heads of all lions
there. One can picture the mean sportsman, with a pair of field-glasses, picking out the cheapest
before firing.

       * * *

     "61,000 TERRITORIALS SHORT."

     Daily Mail.

Still, it is pretty generally recognised now that a small man may make every bit as good a
soldier as a big one, and, besides, there is always less of him to hit.

       * * *

Among the temporary teachers appointed to carry on schools in Herefordshire during the teachers'
strike was an asylum attendant. This confirms the report that many of the children were mad
at finding that the schools did not close in consequence of the strike.

       * * *

It is denied that the name of the Philharmonic Hall, where Mr. PONTING'S moving pictures of
the Antarctic Expedition are being shown, is to be changed to the Philmharmonic Hall.

       * * *

RICHARD STRAUSS'S new work, dealing with the story, of JOSEPH and POTIPHAR'S wife, is to be
produced shortly in Paris. A musical play version of it, entitled "After the Man," may be looked
for here.

       * * *

From Rome comes the news that a young man who was being examined in a hospital there has been
found to have two separate stomachs. This announcement that the ideal man has at last been
evolved has caused the greatest excitement here in Corporation circles.

       * * *

        "LYCEUM CLUB.
     100 YEARS OF PEACE."

     Daily Telegraph.

Surely a record for a lady's club?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

          "CHANGE OF NAME.
                FROM
     JACOB GALBA IWUSHUKU-BRIGHT
                 TO
      GALBA IWUCHUKU OLUKOTUN."

     Sierra Leone Weekly News.

We notice no improvement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commercial Candour.

Notice in a shop window at Reading:

     "TRY ----'S SAUSAGES: NONE LIKE 'EM."

       *       *       *       *       *

CIVIL WAR ESTIMATES.

(A Ministerial Apology.)

  Your talk is vanity, you who lightly vouch
    That we, indifferent to the country's call, shun
  A crisis under which the People crouch
    Like DAMOCLES beneath the pendent falchion;
  That from our minds, incredibly deluded,
        Ulster is still excluded.

  It is not so. All day (between our meals)
    We find this topic really most attractive;
  In watches of the night it often steals
    Into our waking dreams, and keeps us active,
  Like sportsmen whom the rude mosquito chases,
        Trying to save our faces.

  But we have other tasks, and "Duty First"
    Must be our cry before we yield to Pleasure;
  Our Annual Estimates must be rehearsed
    Ere more alluring themes engage our leisure;
  The Budget's claims are urgent; Ulster's fate
        Can obviously wait.

  Besides, no Government should go to war
    Without the wherewithal to pay for forage,
  For ammunition and a Flying Corps
    And cannéd meats to stimulate the courage;
  And this applies, as far as we can tell,
        To civil wars as well.

  For, though our foes confine us to a sphere
    Of relatively narrow operations,
  We are advised that they may cost us dear,
    And therefore, in our coming calculations,
  As Trustees of the Race we dare not miss
        To estimate for this.

  Hence these delays--all carefully thought out.
    But when from hibernation we emerge on
  The vernal prime and things begin to sprout,
    Our Ulster policy shall also burgeon;
  With sap of April coursing through our blood
        We too shall burst in bud.

  O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT RESIGNER.

(A Forecast.)

March, 1914.

     Mr. WILLIAM O'BRIEN describes Mr. JOHN REDMOND as "brother to the
     middle-aged sea-serpent from the County Clare."

     Mr. JOHN REDMOND denies that he is a sea-serpent.

     Mr. WILLIAM O'BRIEN, having denounced this denial as "the last effort
     of a defeated dastard," resigns his seat for Cork City.

     Mr. O'BRIEN is re-elected without a contest.

April, 1914.

     Mr. WILLIAM O'BRIEN in an impassioned speech advocates conciliation
     all round in Ireland, and refers to Mr. JOHN REDMOND as "a moth-eaten,
     moss-gathering malingerer of unparalleled ferocity."

     Mr. REDMOND is seen to smile.

May, 1914.

     An Alderman of Cork fails to take off his hat to Mr. O'BRIEN.

     Mr. O'BRIEN summons a meeting of his supporters and, in a five-hours'
     speech, states that, in spite of the unexampled infamy of Mr. REDMOND,
     he will never abandon his efforts for Irish unity.

     Mr. REDMOND says nothing.

     Mr. O'BRIEN states that "the truckling truculence of a mock-modest
     monster of meretricious mendacity cannot be allowed to prevail against
     a policy of sober and sympathetic silence."

     Mr. REDMOND having abstained from a reply, Mr. O'BRIEN resigns his
     seat for Cork City and is shortly afterwards re-elected without a
     contest.

June, 1914.

     Mr. ASQUITH, in moving the Second Reading of the Home Rule Bill, does
     not mention Mr. O'BRIEN, who swoons in his place and is carried
     speechless from the House of Commons.

     On the following day Mr. O'BRIEN issues to the world a manifesto of
     60,000 words, in which he describes Mr. REDMOND as "a palsied purveyor
     of pledge-breaking platitudes," and announces that the Irish question
     can be settled only by the good will of men of all parties.

     Mr. REDMOND takes no notice.

     Mr. O'BRIEN declares that he can no longer pursue a policy of
     conciliation and mildness, and resigns his seat for Cork City as a
     protest against the "frenzied flaunting of flattery and folly" in
     which, he says, Mr. REDMOND spends his time.

     Mr. O'BRIEN, having been re-elected without a contest, immediately
     re-resigns twelve times in advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

CINEMA NEWS.

Final preparations have now been made to film Mr. THORNTON'S first day as General Manager of
the Great Eastern Railway. By kind permission of Lord CLAUD HAMILTON representatives of all
the other railway companies are to be present to take notes, like the foreign military attachés
in a war. A good "movie" should result.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another film which should provide entertainment and instruction in the highest degree is the
"Day in the Life of Mr. C. K. SHORTER" which is now being arranged for. The great critic will
be followed hour by hour with faithful persistence. He will be seen editing The Sphere with
one hand and putting all the writing fellows in their place with the other. He will be seen
in that wonderful library of his which covers two acres in St. John's Wood, reading, annotating
and correcting; he will be seen at lunch at his club with other intellectual kings, his intimate
friends; shaking hands with Mr. HARDY; entering a taxi; leaving a taxi and paying the fare;
dining with Sir W. ROBERTSON NICOLL; attending a first night and applauding only when applause
is merited; and finally returning home to read more books. In all, about fourteen miles.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be regretfully learned by the great public, always ready for new thrillers, that all
efforts to induce Mr. BALFOUR to part with the cinema rights of his Gifford lectures have failed.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "In consequence of the farm labourers and carters employed on various
     farms in the parish and village of Chitterne having come out on
     strike, work of all kinds, with the exception of lambing, is at a
     complete standstill."--Bath and Wilts Chronicle.

These black-leg ewes!

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Mr. Kipling, who met with a warm deception."--Daily Graphic.

Not a bit of it. Everyone was frankly delighted to see and hear him.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL DIAGNOSIS.

DR. JAMES CANTLIE has reported that "the placing of a tuning-fork; against the body of a patient
enables him to gauge the limits of the liver with almost hair-breadth precision." He believes
that musical diagnosis will prove reliable in the case of broken bones, and asserts that already
it has been proved that a fatty liver gives out tones distinct from a cirrhosed liver.

A superb performance of Herr RICHARD STRAUSS'S "German Measles Concerto" was given last night
by the Queen's Hall orchestra. The tempo was throughout wonderfully high. The three fine solo
passages for the left kidney were finely rendered; while the exquisite diminuendo to convalescence
with which the work concludes greatly impressed a neurotic audience.

The tuning-fork test has proved that several of the most popular of recent rag-time tunes were
originally scored by the brain of a patient who had met with a severe concussion while attempting
to escape over the high wall of an Asylum for Incurable Idiots.

An interesting incident is reported in the Medical press from a well-known Nursing Home. It
appears that one of the female attendants, on applying the tuning-fork to what was alleged
to be the broken heart of a patient, was astonished to obtain as response the first five bars
of "You Made Me Love You." The case has, we learn, been since discharged cured.

       *       *       *       *       *

NUPTIAL NOVELTIES.

     ["Two prominent members of the Herne Bay Angling Association were
     married on Saturday afternoon at St. Martin's Church, Herne Bay.

     An interesting feature of the wedding was the assembly of members of
     the association, who lined the pathway to the church door and formed
     an archway of fishing-rods, to which silver horseshoes had been
     attached.

     The bridegroom's father is not only president of the angling
     association, but captain of the Herne Bay Fire Brigade, members of
     which formed a guard of honour with crossed hatchets."--Daily
     Chronicle.]

The nuptials of Mr. Desmond Waddilove and Miss Esther Priddie, whose parents are prominently
implicated in the milk trade, were marked by several interesting and appropriate spectacular
incidents. A specially attractive feature was the progress of the wedding procession between
a double row of milk-cans. Later on the bride and bridegroom left for Cowes (I.W.) amid a volley
of pats of butter deftly hurled by the officials of the Sursum Corda Dairy Company, Ltd.

Last Saturday the wedding of Mr. Nestor Young and Miss Leonora Dargle was celebrated with great
éclat at St. Mark's, Datchet. Out of respect for the calling of the bride's father all the
wedding party proceeded to the sacred edifice in bath-chairs, which imparted to the ceremony
an air of solemnity too often neglected at up-to-date weddings. The bridegroom's father being
a leading pork-butcher, imitation sausages formed part of the trimmings of the bride's going-away
dress.

Mr. Donald MacLurkin, the golf professional of the Culbin Sands Golf Club, was married last
Friday at Lossiemouth to Miss Janet Sutor, of Cromarty. A charming effect was produced by a
guard of honour, composed of members of the golf club, holding aloft crossed brassies, beneath
which the happy pair passed into the church, while the caddies clashed niblicks and other iron
clubs. The bride wore a cream silk bogey skirt, slightly caught up so as to show the pink dots
of the stymied underskirt, and a simple Dunlop V corsage. A dainty little pot-bunker hat completed
a costume as novel as it was natty.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROYALISTS.

Eight of us travel up to town every morning by the Great Suburban Railway. I have no politics.
Gibbs is a Unionist Free Trader. Three of the others are Radicals and three Unionists. On one
side of the compartment are ranged The Daily Mail, The Daily Express and The Daily Telegraph.
Boldly confronting them are two Daily Chronicles and a Daily News. Gibbs contents himself with
a Daily Graphic, while I choose every day the paper with the least sensational placard.

You can imagine what the journeys are like. Filmer will put down his Daily Express and say
with feeling, "If I could only get that infernal Welsher by the throat." Then Rodgers will
lay down his Daily News and sneer, "What has aggravated the toadies of the Dukes to-day?" In
a moment the battle is in full swing. Bennett breaks in with assertions that peace and unity
will never prevail till the Cabinet has been hanged. Chalmers makes a mild proposal for the
imprisonment of the Armament Ring which is gnawing at the country's vitals. And when there
has been a by-election and both sides claim the moral victory I have no doubt that the men
in signal-boxes think that murder is taking place in our carriage.

However, one day Filmer made a reference to Marconi speculations which caused Rodgers to shake
the dust from his feet (an easy thing on the Great Suburban line) and leave the compartment
at the next station. Then Chalmers and Simcox bore down on Filmer with statistics about our
booming trade. When we reached the next station, Filmer darted out of the compartment, declining
to travel any longer with a set of miserable Cobdenite Little Englanders. I was horrified--not
at the absence of Rodgers and Filmer, which could have been endured--but at the idea that the
gaps they left in the carriage might be tilled up by even worse persons than politicians. Suppose
golfers took their places. On one occasion, when Gibbs had influenza, an intruder had described
to us the fixing of a new carburettor to his car.

Then the great idea came to me--the formation of the Society. The next morning I went up to
Filmer and Rodgers as they stood apart from us and each other on the platform and said, "Come
to the others for a moment. They want to apologise to you."

They didn't, but sometimes one has to choose between the cause of peace and that of truth.

"Gentlemen," I said, "I have noticed this. Nearly all our little controversies begin in one
way. Somebody says, 'I call a spade a spade and BONAR LAW (or LLOYD GEORGE) a lying, treacherous
scoundrel.' I propose that we form ourselves into the Society for Not Calling a Spade a Spade."

"What do you propose to call it? 'A Royal'?" This from Gibbs, who is a master of auction bridge.

"By all means," I said. "It gives dignity and an enhanced value to a vulgar agricultural utensil.
And the Society can be called 'The Royalists' for short. Its single rule is to be this, that
any member speaking of any politician of the opposite Party except in terms of eulogy shall
be fined ten shillings and sixpence. The fines to be divided equally between the Tariff Reform
League and the Free Trade Union."

For a moment there was hesitation. Then the Opposition rejoiced at the idea of hearing the
Radicals praise LAW and LONG, and the Radicals thought it would be ecstasy to hear panegyrics
of LLOYD GEORGE and MASTERMAN from the Unionists.

The Society was formed at once and has proved an enormous success. Peace and goodwill reign
amongst us. It is a perpetual delight to see Filmer put down his Daily Express and with the
veins bulging out from his forehead say, "That accurate and careful financier who has so immeasurably
raised the status of the Chancellorship of the Exchequer"; or to hear Chalmers remark, "Sad
would it be if that most honey-tongued and softhearted of politicians, dear F. E. SMITH, should
have his life ended by a British bayonet."

One or two prepare their delicate eulogies beforehand and refer to notes; but this is thought
unfair. The compartment, as a whole, prefers the impromptu praise that has the air of coming
from the heart.

I am thinking of offering to the House of Commons and the House of Lords free membership in
The Royalists. Perhaps Messrs. LLOYD GEORGE and LEO MAXSE would consent to act as perpetual
Joint Presidents, with Lord HUGH CECIL and the Rev. Dr. CLIFFORD as Chaplains.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

     "He is only a tame duck who with sheepish timidity attempts to
     controvert the determination of a body of frontiersmen from their
     purpose by firing at them with a water squirt."

     Bulawayo Chronicle.

It sounds more like a wild duck.

       *       *       *       *       *

From Publishers' Announcements:--

     "'BORROWED THOUGHTS.'

     (A Handbook for Lent, with an Introduction by a popular Bishop.) Limp,
     9d."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Lot 3. Extra Dry, Cuvée Beservée, 60/-. A really excellent pure Wine,
     which we bought lying abroad."

We trust they won't sell it lying at home.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Generally crime is normal and no increase in mortality is reported.
     Little wandering, emigration, or emaciation is noticed. Cattle are
     being sold in large numbers in Hamirpur. Blankets are being
     distributed to the poor.

     (For other Sporting News see page 8)."

     Advocate of India.

There is nothing narrow about the sporting tastes of our Oriental contemporary.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INVADERS.

