PREFATORY NOTE

      Being an extract from a letter by Professor Henri Bergson

AYANT lu de près le travail de Mrs. Stephen je le trouve intéressant au plus haut point. C'est
une interprétation personelle et originale de l'ensemble de mes vues--interprétation qui vaut
par elle-même, indépendamment de ce qui j' ai écrit. L'auteur s'est assimilé l'esprit delà
doctrine, puis, se dégageant de la matérialité du texte elle a développé à sa manière, dans
la direction qu'elle avait choisi, des idées qui lui paraissaient fondamentales. Grâce à la
distinction qu'elle "établit entre " fact " et " matter, " elle a pu ramener à l'unité, et
présenter avec une grande rigueur logique, des vues que j'avais été obligé, en raison de ma
méthode de recherche, d'isoler les unes des autres. Bref, son travail a une grande valeur;
il témoigne d'une rare force de pensée.

                                                        HENRI BERGSON.

                               PREFACE

THE immense popularity which Bergson's philosophy enjoys is sometimes cast up against him,
by those who do not agree with him, as a reproach. It has been suggested that Berg-son's writings
are welcomed simply because they offer a theoretical justification for a tendency which is
natural in all of us but against which philosophy has always fought, the tendency to throw
reason overboard and just let ourselves go. Bergson is regarded by rationalists almost as a
traitor to philosophy, or as a Bolshevik inciting the public to overthrow what it has taken
years of painful effort to build up.

It is possible that some people who do not understand this philosophy may use Bergson's name
as a cloak for giving up all self-direction and letting themselves go intellectually to pieces,
just as hooligans may use a time of revolution to plunder in the name of the Red Guard. But
Bergson's philosophy is in reality as far from teaching mere laziness as Communism is from
being mere destruction of the old social order.

Bergson attacks the use to which we usually put our minds, but he most certainly does not suggest
that a philosopher should not use his mind at all; he is to use it for all it is worth, only
differently, more efficiently for the purpose he has in view, the purpose of knowing for its
own sake.

There is, of course, a sense in which doing anything in the right way is simply letting one's
self go, for after all it is easier to do a thing well than badlyit certainly takes much less
effort to produce the same amount of result. So to know in the way which Bergson recommends
does in a sense come more easily than attempting to get the knowledge we want by inappropriate
methods. If this saving of waste effort is a fault, then Bergson must plead guilty. But as
the field of knowledge open to us is far too wide for any one mind to explore, the new method
of knowing, though it requires less effort than the old to produce the same result, does not
thereby let us off more easily, for with a better instrument it becomes possible to work for
a greater result.

It is not because it affords an excuse for laziness that Bergson's philosophy is popular but
because it gives expression to a feeling which is very widespread at the present time, a distrust
of systems, theories, logical constructions, the assumption of premisses and then the acceptance
of everything that follows logically from them. There is a sense of impatience with thought
and a thirst for the actual, the concrete. It is because the whole drift of Bergson's writing
is an incitement to throw over abstractions and get back to facts that so many people read
him, hoping that he will put into words and find an answer to the unformulated doubt that haunts
them.

It was in this spirit that the writer undertook the study of Bergson. On the first reading
he appeared at once too persuasive and too vague, specious and unsatisfying: a closer investigation
revealed more and more a coherent theory of reality and a new and promising method of investigating
it. The apparent unsatisfactoriness of the first reading arose from a failure to realize how
entirely new and unfamiliar the point of view is from which Bergson approaches metaphysical
speculation. In order to understand Bergson it is necessary to adopt his attitude and that
is just the difficulty, for his attitude is the exact reverse of that which has been inculcated
in us by the traditions of our language and education and now comes to us naturally. This common
sense attitude is based on certain assumptions which are so familiar that we simply take them
for granted without expressly formulating them, and indeed, for the most part, without even
realizing that we have been making any assumptions at all.

Bergson's principal aim is to direct our attention to the reality which he believes we all
actually know already, but misinterpret and disregard because we are biassed by preconceived
ideas. To do this Bergson has to offer some description of what this reality is, and this description
will be intelligible only if we are willing and able to make a profound change in our attitude,
to lay aside the old assumptions which underlie our every day common sense point of view and
adopt, at least for the time being, the assumptions from which Bergson sets out. This book
begins with an attempt to give as precise an account as possible of the old assumptions which
we must discard and the new ones which we must adopt in order to understand Bergson's description
of reality. To make the complete reversal of our ordinary mental habits needed, for understanding
what Bergson has to say requires a very considerable effort from anyone, but the feat is perhaps
most difficult of all for those who have carefully trained themselves in habits of rigorous
logical criticism. In attempting to describe what we actually know in the abstract logical
terms which are the only means of intercommunication that human beings possess, Bergson is
driven into perpetual self-contradiction, indeed, paradoxical though it may sound, unless he
contradicted himself his description could not be a true one. It is easier for the ordinary
reader to pass over the self contradictions, hardly even being aware of them, and grasp the
underlying meaning: the trained logician is at once pulled up by the nonsensical form of the
description and the meaning is lost in a welter of conflicting words. This, I think, is the
real reason why some of the most brilliant intellectual thinkers have been able to make nothing
of Bergson s philosophy: baffled by the self-contradictions into which he is necessarily driven
in the attempt to convey his meaning they have hastily assumed that Bergson had no meaning
to convey.

The object of this book is to set out the relation between explanations and the actual facts
which we want to explain and thereby to show exactly why Bergson must use self-contradictory
terms if the explanation of reality which he offers is to be a true one.

Having first shown what attitude Bergson requires us to adopt I have gone on to describe what
he thinks this new way of looking at reality will reveal. This at once involves me in the difficulty
with which Bergson wrestles in all his attempts to describe reality, the difficulty which arises
from the fundamental discrepancy between what he sees the actual fact to be and the abstract
notions which are all he has with which to describe it. I have attempted to show how it comes
about that we are in fact able to perform this apparently impossible feat of describing the
indescribable, using Bergson's descriptions of sensible perception and the relations of matter
and memory to illustrate my point. If we succeed in ridding ourselves of our common-sense preconceptions,
Bergson tells us that we may expect to know the old facts in a new way, face to face, as it
were, instead of seeing them through a web of our own intellectual interpretations. I have
not attempted to offer any proof whether or not Bergson's description of reality is in fact
true: having understood the meaning of the description it remains for each of us to decide
for himself whether or not it fits the facts.

                                                        KARIN STEPHEN.

Cambridge, January, 1922.

                 International Library of Psychology
                   Philosophy and Scientific Method

              GENERAL EDITOR - - - - C. K. OGDEN, M. A.

                                       (Magdalene College, Cambridge).

                      VOLUMES ALREADY ARRANGED:

PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES by Q. E. MOORE, Litt. D. CONFLICT AND DREAM by W. H. R. RIVERS, F. R.
S. THE MEASUREMENT OF EMOTION by W. WHATELY SMITH Introduction by William Brown. THE ANALYSIS
OF MATTER by BERTRAND RUSSELL, F. R. S. MATHEMATICS FOR PHILOSOPHERS by G. H. HARDY, F. R.
S. PSYCHOLOGICAL TYPES by C. G. JONG, M. D., LL. D. THE PSYCHOLOGY OF REASONING by EUGENIO
RIGNANO THE ELEMENTS OF PSYCHOTHERAPY by WILLIAM BROWN, M. D., D. Sc. THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE
UNCONSCIOUS by E. VON HARTMANN THE FOUNDATIONS OF MUSICAL AESTHETICS by W. POLE, F. R. S. Edited
by Edward J. Dent. THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC by EDWARD J. DENT SOME CONCEPTS OF SCIENTIFIC THOUGHT
by C. D. BROAD, Litt. D. PHILOSOPHICAL LOGIC by L. WITTGENSTEIN Introduction by Bertrand Russell.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF ' AS IF by H. VAIHINGER THE LAWS OF FEELING by F. PAULHAN THE HISTORY OF
MATERIALISM by F. A. LANGE COLOUR-HARMONY by JAMES WOOD and C. K. OGDEN THE STATISTICAL METHOD
IN ECONOMICS AND POLITICS by P. SARGANT FLORENCE THE PRINCIPLES OF CRITICISM by I. A. RICHARDS

                              CHAPTER I

                             EXPLANATION

IN order to understand Bergson it is not necessary to have any previous acquaintance with philosophy,
indeed the less the reader knows of current metaphysical notions the easier it may perhaps
be for him to adopt the mental attitude required for understanding Bergson. For Bergson says
that the tradition of philosophy is all wrong and must be broken with: according to his view
philosophical knowledge can only be obtained by "a reversal of the usual work of the intellect."[4]*

* Introduction to Metaphysics, page 34.

The usual work of the intellect consists in analysis and classification: if you have anything
presented to you which you do not understand the obvious question to put yourself is, "what
is it?" Suppose in a dark room which you expected to find empty you stumble against something,
the natural thing to do is to begin at once to try to fit your experience into some class already
familiar to you. You find it has a certain texture which you class as rather rough, a temperature
which you class as warm, a size which you class as about two feet high, a peculiar smell which
you recognise and you finally jump to the answer to your question: it is "a dog." This intellectual
operation is a sample of the way in which it comes natural to us to set to work whenever we
find ourselves confronted with any situation which we are not able to classify off hand, we
are not easy till we can say what the situation is, and saying what consists in hitting upon
some class with which we are already familiar to which it belongs: in this instance the question
was answered when you succeeded in describing the situation to yourself as "stumbling upon
a dog." Now you were only able to class what was stumbled upon as a dog after you had recognised
a certain number of properties as being those shared by dogsthe rough texture, the size, the
smell. You analysed the situation as containing these qualities and thereupon classified what
had been stumbled upon as a dog.

Analysis and classification are the two methods which we are accustomed to rely upon for improving
our knowledge in unfamiliar situations and we are accustomed to take it that they improve our
knowledge of the whole situation: anyone who said that after you were able to say what you
had stumbled upon you knew less of the whole situation than you knew before would find it difficult
to get you to agree. And yet this is very much the position which Bergson takes up. Analysis
and classification, he would admit, are the way to get more knowledge, of a kind; they enable
us to describe situations and they are the starting point of all explanation and prediction.
After analysis and classification you were able to say, "I have stumbled upon a dog," and having
got so far you could then pass on to whatever general laws you knew of as applying to the classes
into which you had fitted the situation, and by means of these laws still more of the situation
could be classified and explained. Thus by means of the general law, "dogs lick," you would
be furnished with an explanation if perhaps you felt something warm and damp on your hand,
or again knowledge of this law might lead you to expect such a feeling. When what we want is
to describe or to explain a situation in general terms then Bergson agrees that analysis and
classification are the methods to employ, but he maintains that these methods which are useful
for describing and explaining are no use for finding out the actual situation which we may
want to describe or explain. And he goes a step further. Not only do these methods fail to
reveal the situation but the intellectual attitude of abstraction to which they accustom us
seriously handicaps us when we want not merely to explain the situation but to know it. Now
it is the business of science to explain situations in terms of general laws and so the intellectual
method of abstract-ion is the right one for scientists to employ. Bergson claims, however,
that philosophy has a task quite distinct from that of science. In whatever situation he finds
himself a man may take up one of two attitudes, he may either adopt a practical attitude, in
which case he will set to work to explain the situation in order that he may know what to do
under the circumstances, or he may take a speculative interest in it and then he will devote
himself to knowing it simply for the sake of knowing. It is only, according to Bergson, in
the former case, when his interest is practical, that he will attain his object by using the
intellectual method of abstraction which proceeds by analysis and classification. These intellectual
operations have such prestige, however, they ' have proved so successful in discovering explanations,
that we are apt to take it for granted that they must be the best way to set, to work whatever
sort of knowledge we want: we might almost be tempted, off hand, to imagine that they were
our only way of knowing at all, but a moment's reflection will show | that this, at any rate,
would be going too far.

Before we can analyse and classify and explain we must have something to analyse, some material
to work upon: these operations, are based upon something which we know directly, what we see,
for instance, or touch or feel. This something is the foundation of knowledge, the intellectual
operations of analysis classification and the framing of general laws are simply an attempt
to describe and explain it. It is the business of science to explain and intellectual methods
are the appropriate ones for science to employ. But the business of philosophy, according to
Bergson, is not to explain reality but to know it. For this a different kind of mental effort
is required. Analysis and classification, instead of increasing our direct knowledge, tend
rather to diminish it. They must always start from some direct knowledge, but they proceed,
not by widening the field of this knowledge but by leaving out more and more of it. Moreover,
unless we are constantly on the alert, the intellectual habit of using all our direct knowledge
as material for analysis and classification ends by completely misleading us as to what it
is that we do actually know. So that the better we explain the less, in the end, we know.

There can be no doubt that something is directly known but disputes break out as soon as we
try to say what that something is. Is it the "real" world of material objects, or a mental
copy of these objects, or are we altogether on the wrong track in looking for two kinds of
realities, the "real" world and "our mental states," and is it perceived events alone that
are "real?" This something which we know directly has been given various names: "the external
object," "sense data," "phenomena," and so on, each more or less coloured by implications belonging
to one or other of the rival theories as to what it is. We shall call it "the facts" to emphasise
its indubitable reality, and avoid, as far as possible, any other implications.

Controversy about "the facts" has been mainly as to what position they occupy in the total
scheme of reality. As to what they are at the moment when we are actually being acquainted
with them one would have thought there could have been no two opinions; it seems impossible
that we should make any mistake about that. No doubt it is impossible to have such a thing
as a false experience, an experience is what it is, only judgments can be false. But it is
quite possible to make a false judgment as to what experience we are actually having, or, still
more commonly, simply to take for granted that our experience must be such and such, without
ever looking to see whether it is or not. A small child taken to a party and told that parties
are great fun if questioned afterwards will very likely say it has enjoyed itself though, if
you happened to have been there, you may have seen clearly that it was really bewildered or
bored. Even when we grow up names still have a tendency to impose upon us and disguise from
us the actual nature of our experiences. There are not very many people who, if invited to
partake, for instance, of the last bottle of some famous vintage wine, would have the courage
to admit, even to themselves, that it was nasty, even though it was, in fact, considerably
past its prime. Cases of this kind, with which we are all familiar, are enough to make us realize
that it is actually quite possible to make mistakes even about facts which we know directly,
to overlook the actual fact altogether because we have made up our minds in advance as to what
it is sure to be.

Now Bergson says that such errors are not confined to stray instances, such as we have noticed,
in which the imposition of preconceived ideas can readily be detected by a little closer attention
to the actual facts. He believes that a falsification due to preconceived ideas, runs right
through the whole of our direct experience. He lays the blame both for this falsification and
for our failure to detect it upon our intellectual habit of relying upon explanation rather
than upon direct knowledge, and that is one of the reasons why he says that our intellectual
attitude is an obstacle to direct knowledge of the facts. The intellectual method of abstraction
by which we analyse and classify is the foundation of all description and explanation in terms
of general laws, and the truth is that we are, as a rule, much more preoccupied with explaining
the facts which we know than with the actual experiencing of them.

This preoccupation is natural enough. The bare fact which we know directly is not enough to
enable us to carry on our everyday lives, we cannot get on unless we supplement it with some
sort of explanation and, if it comes to choosing between fact and explanation, the explanation
is often of more practical use than the fact. So it comes about that we are inclined to use
the facts which we know directly simply as material for constructing explanations and to pay
so little attention to them for their own sakes that we simply take it for granted that they
must be what our explanations lead us to suppose they are.

Now according to Bergson the attitude of mind required for explaining the facts conflicts with
that which is required for knowing them. From the point of view simply of knowing, the facts
are all equally important and we cannot afford to discriminate, but for explanation some facts
are very much more important than others. When we want to explain, therefore, rather than simply
to know, we tend to concentrate our attention upon these practically important facts and pass
over the rest. For in order to describe and explain a situation we have to classify it, and
in order to do this we must pick out in it properties required for membership of some one or
other of the classes known to us. In the situation which we originally considered by way of
illustration, for instance, you had to pick out the qualities of roughness, warmth and so on,
in order to classify what you had stumbled upon as "a dog." Now the picking out of these particular
qualities is really an operation of abstraction from the situation as a whole: they were the
important features of the situation from the point of view of classifying what you had stumbled
upon, but they by no means exhausted the whole situation. Our preoccupation with explaining
the facts, then, leads us to treat what we know directly as so much material for abstraction.

This intellectual attitude, as Bergson calls it, though practically useful, has, according
to him, two grave drawbacks from the point of view of speculation. By focussing our attention
upon anything less than the whole fact, and so isolating a part from the rest, he says we distort
what we knew originally: furthermore just in so far as we make a selection among the facts,
attending to some and passing over others, we limit the field of direct knowledge which we
might otherwise have enjoyed. For these two reasons Bergson insists that it is the business
of philosophy to reverse the intellectual habit of mind and return to the fullest possible
direct knowledge of the fact. "May not the task of philosophy, "he says," be to bring us back
to a fuller perception of reality by a certain displacement of our attention? What would be
required would be to turn our attention away from the practically interesting aspect of the
universe in order to turn it back to what, from a practical point of view, is useless. And
this conversion of attention would be philosophy itself."[5]*

* La Perception du Changement, page 13. 24

At first sight it appears paradoxical and absurd to maintain that our efforts to analyse, classify
and explain the facts tend rather to limit than to extend our knowledge, and furthermore distort
even such facts as we still remain acquainted with. Common sense has no doubt that, far from
limiting and distorting our knowledge, explanation is the only possible way in which we can
get beyond the little scraps of fact which are all that we can ever know directly.

If the views of common sense on this question were formulated, which, for the most part, they
are not, they would be something like this. Until we begin to think the facts which we know
directly are all muddled together and confused: first of all it is necessary to sort them by
picking out qualities from the general confusion in which they are at first concealed. It is
possible that during this process, which is what is called analysis, we may be obliged, at
first, to overlook some of what we already know in a vague sort of way, but this insignificant
loss is compensated by the clarity of what remains, and is, in any case, only temporary. For
as the analysis proceeds we gradually replace the whole of the original mere muddle by clear
and definite things and qualities. At first we may be able to distinguish only a few qualities
here and there, and our preoccupation with these may possibly lead us, for a time, to pay insufficient
attention to the rest of the muddle which we know directly but have not yet succeeded in analysing.
But when the analysis is completed the distinct things and qualities which we shall then know
will contain all that we originally knew, and more besides, since the analysis will have revealed
much that was originally concealed or only implicit in the original unanalysed fact. If, for
instance, you look at a very modern painting, at first what you are directly aware of may be
little more than a confused sight: bye and bye, as you go on looking, you will be able to distinguish
colours and shapes, one by one objects may be recognised until finally you may be able to see
the whole picture at a glance as composed of four or five different colours arranged in definite
shapes and positions. You may even be able to make out that it represents a human figure, or
a landscape. Common sense would tell you that if your analysis is complete these colours and
shapes will exhaust the whole of what you originally knew and moreover that in the course of
it much will have been discovered which originally you could hardly be said to have known at
all, so that analysis, far from limiting your direct knowledge, will have added to it considerably.
Starting, then, originally, from a very meagre stock of direct knowledge, analysis, according
to the common sense view, by discovering more and more qualities, builds up for us more and
more direct knowledge.

