1. One man will make so tricks on trapees that audience will fraid himself very much.

2. Some dogs will play and role himself in the mud.

3. This is the grand display of tricks.

4. The lady will make himself so bend that everyone he will think that he is rubber lady.

5. The man will walk on wire tight. He is doing so nicely because he is professor of that.

6. Then will come grand dramatic.

NOTICE.

No stick will be allowed in the spectators and he shall not smoke also."

       *       *       *       *       *

EXCELSIOR.

    "Our ascent to the sun makes our enemy envious."--Koelnische Zeitung.

  The night fell fast, but faster still
  A youth came down the darkening hill,
  A super-youth, whose super-flag
  Flaunted the strange but hackneyed brag,
              "Excelsior!"

  His eyes betrayed through gold-rimmed prism
  Myopia and astigmatism;
  But, head in air, he proudly strode,
  Declaiming down the fatal road,
              "Excelsior!"

  The sign-posts clustered left and right
  And waved their arms towards the height;
  He heeded not, but through the mist
  Plunged steeply down and fiercely hissed,
              "Excelsior!"

  "Put on the brake!" Experience said;
  "The stars, my boy, are overhead;
  The pit of Tophet's deep and wide."
  A sudden snarl of hate replied,
              "Excelsior!"

  "O stay," cried Sanity, "and cool
  Thy fevered head in yonder pool!"
  The balefire smouldered in his eye,
  And still he muttered, hurtling by,
              "Excelsior!"

  "Beware the awful precipice!
  Beware the bottomless abyss!"
  This was Discretion's last Good-night.
  He gurgled, as he dropped from sight,
              "Excelsior!"

  At day-break, when the punctual sun
  Explored the hill-tops one by one,
  And scoured the solitary steep,
  An echo rose from out the deep,
              "Excelsior!"

  And, from the deeper depths that lay
  Beyond the farthest reach of day,
  A thin voice wailed, and, mocking it,
  Crackled the laughter of the pit,
              "Excelsior!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME JUMBO.

"Jumbo, the giant elephant of the Stosch-Parasani Circus in Berlin, has been killed for food,
telegraphs the Amsterdam correspondent of The Daily Express. He yielded fifty-five tons of
flesh."--Evening Paper (Glasgow).

If this statement had not come from Amsterdam we should have found some difficulty in believing it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"At a meeting of the King George High School, Kasauli: 'Resolved, that the school be closed
for to-day to commemorate the recapture of Kut, for which permission has been so kindly accorded
by Pundit Hari Das Sahib, M.A.'"-- Indian Paper.

We are all, General MAUDE included, very much obliged to the Pundit.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MISNOMER.

Once upon a time, in the midst of the most detestable Spring ever known--a Spring consisting
entirely of hopes of better weather, raised for no other purpose than to be so thwarted and
dashed that the spirits of that brave and much harassed creature, man, might sink still lower--once
upon a time, even in this Spring, there was a fine evening. It was more than fine, it was tender,
and, owing to a North wind, wonderfully luminous, and I walked slowly along the hedges--which
were still bare, although April was far advanced--and listened to the blackbirds, and marvelled
at the light that made everything so beautiful, and was filled with gratitude to the late WILLIAM
WILLETT for re-arranging our foolish hours.

I soon reached a favourite meadow, with a view of the hills and clumps of gorse in it, and,
since there were clumps of gorse, many, many of those alluring little creatures which live
in the ground and provide man with numbers of benefits--such as sweet flesh to put into pies;
and cheap, soft, warm fur to wrap Baby Buntings in; and stubby tails, or scuts, to be used
in hot-houses for transferring pollen that peach-blossoms may be fertilised, and (latterly)
symbols for Government clerks who prefer civilian clothes and comfort to khaki and warfare;
and (in Wales) toasted cheese. I refer to rabbits.

As I stood motionless in this meadow watching the yellowing sky, I was aware of an Homeric
contest quite close to me. Two rabbits wore engaged in a terrific battle. They kicked and they
scratched and made the most furious attacks on each other. The fur flew and the ground resounded
to their thuds. First one seemed to be winning and then the other, but there was no flinching.

I had heard of rabbits fighting, but I had never seen it before. "Very unfair to have called
them Cuthberts," I said to myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The ---- Company have several second-hand cars for sale, starter and
    non-starter models; petrol consumption low."--The Autocar.

Particularly that of the non-starters.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Good General: sold cheap if taken over this week; good reasons for
    leaving."--Liverpool Paper.

Can this be HINDENBURG?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Rev. Stuart Holden, on behalf of the Strength of Britain Movement,
    spoke of the enthusiasm for prohibition of audiences throughout the
    country."--The Times.

We understand, however, that this enthusiasm for the prohibition of audiences has not yet extended
to the theatrical profession.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOOD QUESTION.

RATIONING AT THE ZOO.

"In the Northern area," says a despatch from Mr. POCOCK, "a, period of inactivity has set in
which is partly due to the fact that the dromedary has been placed on a vegetarian diet. There
has been a cold snap in the crocodile house. Three of our keepers have disappeared."

An attempt to substitute salsify for bloaters in the dietary of the sea-lion was not successful.

Complaints have been received from the elephant-house to the effect that buns sold for the
benefit of the occupants have not reached their destination. Should this abuse continue it
will be necessary to make arrangements to have every child under the age of twelve submitted
to an X-ray examination before leaving the Gardens.

The use of human food for the nourishment of animals is, however, being discouraged; and for
the future guinea-pigs and broken glass will be the staple diet of boa-constrictors and ostriches
respectively. Peppermint- balls for grizzly bears are to be discontinued; also egg-nogg for
anthropoid apes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS TO YOUNG FOOD-PRODUCERS.

Jugged Hare.--A well-known firm of hare-raisers in Carmelite Street informs us that young rabbits
fed on sponge-cake soaked in port wine have a flavour which renders them indistinguishable
from hare.

Celeriac.---This appetising vegetable has been little cultivated owing to a general but erroneous
belief that it was the name of a new kind of motor-car. "Celeriac" is of course a compound
of the word "celery" and the Arabic suffix "ac," which means "bearing a resemblance to" or
"a small imitation of." Thus it would be correct for the writer to speak of the salariac he
earns by writing this sort of thing.

[Note.--"Earns" would not be correct.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NAVIGATION EXTRAORDINARY.

    "Although the stern and screws of the vessel were well out of the water
    she was able to make the port under her own steam."--Daily Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Portatoes in the usual forms have disappeared this week.--LORNA."--
    British Weekly.

These must be the Devonportatoes of which we have heard so much.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT BEST.

  For the sport of shooting nurses,
  Gloating o'er his victims' hearses,
  Answering appeals with curses,
    He had lost his zest.

  All his diabolic striving
  To intensify slave-driving
  Could not slay the soul surviving
    In a Nation's breast.

  Still the flame burns ever brighter
  Underneath the blouse or mitre;
  Still the smitten greets the smiter
    With undaunted crest;

  While the arch-tormentor, flying
  From the hell about him lying,
  Mid the fire and worm undying
    Takes his endless rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, April 17th.--The re-opening of the House of Commons found Lord FISHER in his accustomed
place over the clock. What is the lure that brings him so often to the Peers' Gallery? I think
it must be his strong sense of duty. As Chairman of the Inventions Board he feels he ought
to lose no opportunity of adding to his stock.

Quite the most striking feature of the afternoon was the pink shirt worn by a well-known Scottish
Member, whose name I refrain from mentioning to spare him any additional blushes. It was of
such an inflammatory hue that his brother-legislators at first took it for a well-developed
case of measles (probably German) and sheered off accordingly. Nobody knows what caused him
to indulge in the rash act, but it is hoped in the interests of coherent debate that he will
not do it again.

Mr. DILLON was so much disturbed by the apparition that, having started out to demand an immediate
General Election unless the Government at once granted Home Rule to the whole of Ireland, he
finished by declaring that he would be satisfied if they would promise to reform the franchise
on the lines proposed by the SPEAKER'S Conference. Incidentally he drew a fancy picture of
himself and his colleagues striving consistently for thirty-five years to convert their brother-Irishmen
to constitutional methods; from which I infer that Mr. DILLON, very wisely, does not make a
study of his own old speeches.

]

As the engineer of two successive extensions of the life of Parliament Mr. ASQUITH offered
whole-souled support to the proposal to give a third renewal to its lease. Apart from anything
else, how could a General Election be satisfactorily conducted when there was a shortage of
paper and posters were prohibited? "What's the matter with slates?" whispered a Member from
Wales. If every Candidate paraded his constituency sandwiched between a couple of slates showing
the details of his political programme, it would certainly add to the gaiety of the nation,
besides providing an easy method of expunging such items as in the course of the contest might
prove unpopular.

A good many silly things have been said in the last month or two about HINDENBURG and his imaginary
"line," but the silliest of all perhaps was the remark of The Nation that the German retreat
on the Somme "has found our soldiers wanting." This article naturally gave great comfort to
the enemy, who possibly overestimates the importance of Mr. MASSINGHAM and the significance
of the title of his paper. It also found its way to the British trenches, and caused so great
an increase in the habit traditionally ascribed to the British Army when in Flanders that Sir
DOUGLAS HAIG is understood to have suggested that an embargo should be placed upon the further
export of such literature.

What most strikes the imagination is that amid the most stirring events of the greatest war
in history British Legislators should devote three of their precious hours to so trumpery an
affair. Was this what the old jurist had in mind when he called the House of Commons "The Great
Inquest of the Nation"?

A fresh injustice to Ireland was revealed at Question-time. England and Scotland are to enjoy
an educational campaign, in which hundreds of speakers all over the country will dilate upon
the necessity of reducing the consumption and preventing the waste of foodstuffs. But like
most other patriotic schemes it is not to apply to John Bull's other island, though I gather
that it is at least as much wanted there as here.

On the third reading of the Parliament Bill the debate was confined to Irish Members. Mr. FIELD,
who is in the live-stock trade, led one particularly fine bull into the Parliamentary arena.
After complaining that Members had no longer any power in the House, he went on to say, "We
are simply ciphers behind the leading figures on the Front Bench." Surely that, arithmetically
speaking, is the position in which ciphers are most powerful.

Thursday, April 19th.--The mental processes of Sir WILLIAM BYLES are normally so mysterious
that his suggestion that, with the Americans coming in and the Germans making off, this was
the psychological moment for the British Government to initiate proposals for peace, did not
strike the House at large as specially absurd. When Mr. BONAR LAW tactfully observed that the
Supplementary Question was better than the answer he had prepared, one felt that the prospects
of an Anglo-Irish entente had appreciably improved.

When the new MINISTER FOR EDUCATION deposited upon the Table a vast packet of manuscript, and
craved the indulgence of the House if he exceeded the usual limits of a maiden speech, I thought
of the days when the headline, "The Duke of Devonshire on Technical Education," used to strike
on my fevered spirit with a touch of infinite prose. Mr. FISHER began in rather professorial
style, but he soon revealed a glowing enthusiasm for his subject which thawed the House. His
ambition is to transform the teachers in our elementary schools from ill-paid drudges into
members of a liberal and liberally remunerated profession. Our record in the War has shown
that, as a Naval Officer wrote to him, "there is something in your d----d Board School education
after all."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The bride, who was given away by her father, was attended by Miss ----
    as demonsoille d'honneur."--Hawkes Bay Herald (New Zealand).

We fear this marriage was not made in heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A PAPER PROBLEM.

Copy of a letter from the Reverend Laurence Longwind to the Archbishop of CANTERBURY:--

                                              The Rectory,
                                                  Little Pottering,
                                                        April 1st, 1917.

My LORD ARCHBISHOP,--I am writing to ask whether Your Grace would be so kind as to assist me
in resolving a case of conscience which, I feel sure, must be exercising the minds and hearts
of many of my brother clergy at the present time.

The matter to which I refer is closely connected with the sad shortage of paper. It is no doubt
known to Your Grace that many ministers of the Gospel, though capable of eloquence of a high
order, write their sermons. Old sermons tend to increase and multiply at an alarming rate.
I myself have a chest of drawers literally stuffed with them. What, in Your Grace's opinion,
should be done with these?

Would it be right, in view of the purpose for which they were written, to tear them up and
send them away to be pulped? Long and earnestly as I have considered the problem in all its
bearings I am still utterly unable to arrive at a solution.

No doubt I could sell them and devote the proceeds to charitable purposes. There is, I am informed,
a large and steady demand for old sermons amongst the younger clergy who have not that ripe
experience of life which sixty years in a rural parish cannot fail to provide. But I am informed
that the dealers do not always offer appropriate prices. And I should hesitate to make a traffic
in holy things unless I could make quite certain that no breath of scandal could result from
inadequate remuneration.

I have sounded my churchwardens on the subject, but without reaping any benefit from the advice
given. "Do you see any harm in selling them simply as paper?" I asked one of them, a Mr. Bloggs.
"Not a rap! Not a rap! Get rid of 'em!" was his reply. Naturally I felt hurt. It was not so
much what he said as the way he said it. The mere mention of my sermons always seems to make
him irritable. Why I cannot imagine.

My dear wife advises me to send them down to the schoolhouse. The children, she thinks, might
use the backs (I write on one side of the paper only) for their sums. But I fear such an expedient
might give rise to a spirit of irreverence.

Would Your Grace hold me greatly to blame were I to raffle them at our next rummage sale? I
feel sure they would fetch a good price. Only yesterday Miss Tabitha Gingham remarked to her
sister, Miss Mary, "We had a good long sermon from the Rector this morning." I was passing
behind their laurel hedge at the moment, and could not fail to overhear this meed of praise.
Miss Tabitha is, I should explain, very hard to please, and if she thinks them good there must
be others in the parish of the same opinion. I might be able to raise quite a nice sum for
our local Seed Potato Committee by a Spring raffle of my longer and more elaborate compositions.
And since everybody is beginning to take a modern view of Bonus Bonds I do not think that a
raffle for such a purpose need arouse serious opposition.

Trusting that Your Grace will be able to give me your considered opinion in this matter, which
is arousing so much attention at the present time,

             I am, Your Grace's humble and obedient Servant,
                        LAURENCE LONGWIND.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FORE AND AFT.

  The A.S.C.'s a nobleman; 'e rides a motor-car,
  'E is not forced to 'ump a pack, as we footsloggers are;
  'E drives 'is lorry through the towns and 'alts for fags and beer;
  We infantry, we does without, there ain't no shops up 'ere;
  And then for splashin' us with mud 'e draws six bob a day,
  For the further away from the line you go the 'igher your rate of pay.

  My shirt is rather chatty and my socks 'ud make you larf;
  It's just a week o' Sundays since they sent us for a barf;
  But them that 'as the cushy jobs they lives in style and state,
  With a basin in their bedrooms and their dinners on a plate;
  For 'tis a law o' nachur with the bloomin' infantry--
  The nearer up to the line you go the dirtier will you be.

  Blokes at the base, they gets their leave when they've bin out three
      munse;
  I 'aven't seen my wife and kids for more 'n a year, not once;
  The missus writes, "About that pass, you'd better ask again;
  I think you must 'ave been forgot." Old girl, the reason's plain:
  We are the bloomin' infantry, and you must just believe
  That the nearer up to the line you go the less is your chance of leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We cussed at Grosvenor House and some steps in this direction may be
    expected if the demands of retailers become more rapacious."--Daily
    Mail.

It is no good abusing the FOOD CONTROLLER, however, or prices would long ago have been down
to zero.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAB DREAMS OF MAY.

  The day-dim torches of chestnut trees stand dreamily, dreamily;
    In myriad jewels of glad young green, smooth black are the broad beech
        boles;
  The fragrant foam of the cherry trees hangs creamily, creamily,
    And the purpling lilacs and the blackthorn brakes are singing with all
        their souls!

  The pinky petals of lady's-smocks peer maidenly, maidenly;
    Meadow-sweet, donning her fragrant lace, is daintiest friend of the
        breeze;
  Hyacinths wild, blue-misting the woods, hang ladenly, ladenly,
    And tiniest bird's-eye burns deep blue in thickets of tall grass trees!

  Daylong I lie, daylong I dream, swung swooningly, swooningly,
    In an old-time tulip of flaming gold, red-flaunted and streaked with
        green,
  While song of the birds, of water and bees comes crooningly, crooningly,
    And Summer brings me her swift mad months with scent and colour and
        sheen.
                  Winter is gone, I ween,
                  As it had never been!

          Dance! dance! Delicately dance!
              Revel with the delicatest stamp and go!
          Dance! dance!  Circle and advance,
              Curtsey, twirl about,
              Shatter the dew and whirl about,
          Stamp upon the moonbeams--heel and toe!

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE NEWS FROM THE AIR.

THE ALLIES.

The other day I was in a country house whose owners are so lost to shame as still to keep pets.
There is a dog there which is actually allowed to eat, in defiance of all those Times' correspondents
whose sole idea of this stimulating and unfailingly devoted animal is that it is personified
greed on four legs. There are two or three horses of unusual intelligence, which no doubt our
friend the Hun would long since have devoured, but which, even though hunting is over, are
by some odd freak of sentiment or even of loyalty still kept alive. There are rabbits. And
there is a bird in a cage against the wall of a small yard. This bird is a chaffinch, which
a friend had brought over from France.

After I had fraternised shamefully with all these deplorable drones, my hostess drew my attention
to the French chaffinch, a line big fellow, very tame and cheerful. "We will feed him," she
said, "and then you will see something that happens every day. Something very interesting."

So saying she poured into a receptacle for the purpose enough seed, no doubt, to make, mixed
with other things, several admirable thimble-loaves of bread substitute, and told me to watch.

I watched, and very soon the French chaffinch, having eaten a certain amount of the seed, dashed
his beak amid the rest with such violence that it was spilt over the pan, out of the bars and
down to the ground below.

"That's very wasteful," I said. "Lord DEVONPORT wouldn't like that--Lord DEVONPORT wouldn't;"
this being the kind of facetious thing we are all saying just now, and something facetious
being in this particular house always, for some reason or other, expected of me.

"Wait a minute," my hostess replied. "There's more reason in it than you think."

And there was.

The whole point of this mediocre narrative consists in the fact that within a few seconds some
dozen sparrows had descended to the yard and were feeding busily while the chaffinch watched
from above. And this happens at every mealtime.

To what extent we are contributing to the French Commissariat I cannot say; but with my own
eyes I have seen a French citizen being systematically generous to his English cousins.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The sale [of potatoes] started at 6 a.m., and the first omnibus from
    London brought over 200 buyers down."--Weekly Dispatch.

A gross case of overcrowding.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DOUBLE ENTENTE.

    ["In view of the fact that M.C. is also the abbreviation for 'Military
    Cross' ... it has been recommended that the abbreviations for the
    degrees of Bachelor of Surgery and Master of Surgery be altered from
    B.C. and M.C. to B.Ch. and M.Ch."]

