I was not aware that you owed me anything beside that guinea; but I dare say you are right.
I live at No. 16 Mitre-court Buildings, a pistol-shot off Baron Maseres'. You must introduce
me to the Baron. I think we should suit one another mainly. He lives on the ground floor for
convenience of the gout; I prefer the attic story for the air! He keeps three footmen and two
maids; I have neither maid nor laundress, not caring to be troubled with them! His forte, I
understand, is the higher mathematics; my turn, I confess, is more to poetry and the belles
lettres. The very antithesis of our characters would make up a harmony. You must bring the
baron and me together.--N.B. when you come to see me, mount up to the top of the stairs--I
hope you are not asthmatical--and come in flannel, for it's pure airy up there. And bring your
glass, and I will shew you the Surrey Hills. My bed faces the river so as by perking up upon
my haunches, and supporting my carcase with my elbows, without much wrying my neck, I can see
the white sails glide by the bottom of the King's Bench walks as I lie in my bed. An excellent
tiptoe prospect in the best room: casement windows with small panes, to look more like a cottage.
Mind, I have got no bed for you, that's flat; sold it to pay expenses of moving. The very bed
on which Manning lay--the friendly, the mathematical Manning! How forcibly does it remind me
of the interesting Otway! "The very bed which on thy marriage night gave thee into the arms
of Belvidera, by the coarse hands of ruffians--" (upholsterers' men,) &c. My tears will not
give me leave to go on. But a bed I will get you, Manning, on condition you will be my day-guest.

I have been ill more than month, with a bad cold, which comes upon me (like a murderer's conscience)
about midnight, and vexes me for many hours. I have successively been drugged with Spanish
licorice, opium, ipecacuanha, paregoric, and tincture of foxglove (tinctura purpurae digitalis
of the ancients). I am afraid I must leave off drinking.

[Francis Maseres (1731-1824), whom Lamb mentions again in his Elia essay on "The Old Benchers,"
was the mathematician (hence his interest to Manning) and reformer. His rooms were at 5 King's
Bench Walk. He became Cursitor Baron of the Exchequer in 1773. To the end he wore a three-cornered
hat, a wig and ruffles. Priestley praised the Baron's mathematical labours, in which he had
the support of William Frend.]

LETTER 85

CHARLES LAME TO THOMAS MANNING

[No date. ? April, 1801.]

Dear Manning,--I sent to Brown's immediately. Mr. Brown (or Pijou, as he is called by the moderns)
denied the having received a letter from you. The one for you he remembered receiving, and
remitting to Leadenhall Street; whither I immediately posted (it being the middle of dinner),
my teeth unpicked. There I learned that if you want a letter set right, you must apply at the
first door on the left hand before one o'clock. I returned and picked my teeth. And this morning
I made my application in form, and have seen the vagabond letter, which most likely accompanies
this. If it does not, I will get Rickman to name it to the Speaker, who will not fail to lay
the matter before Parliament the next sessions, when you may be sure to have all abuses in
the Post Department rectified.

N.B. There seems to be some informality epidemical. You direct yours to me in Mitre Court;
my true address is Mitre Court Buildings. By the pleasantries of Fortune, who likes a joke
or a double entendre as well as the best of her children, there happens to be another Mr. Lamb
(that there should be two!!) in Mitre Court.

Farewell, and think upon it.

C. L.

[Here should come a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, dated April 6, 1801, in praise of Jeremy
Taylor, particularly the Holy Dying. Lamb recommends Lloyd to read the story of the Ephesian
matron in the eighth section.

Here also should come a letter from Lamb to Robert Lloyd, dated June 26, 1801, containing a
very interesting criticism of George Frederick Cooke's acting as Richard III. at Covent Garden.
Lamb wrote for the Morning Post, January 8, 1802, a criticism of Cooke in this part, which
will be found in Vol. I. of the present edition.]

LETTER 86

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

June 29, 1801.

Dear Sir,--Doctor Christy's Brother and Sister are come to town, and have shown me great civilities.
I in return wish to requite them, having, by God's grace, principles of generosity implanted
(as the moralists say) in my nature, which have been duly cultivated and watered by good and
religious friends, and a pious education. They have picked up in the northern parts of the
island an astonishing admiration of the great author of the New Philosophy in England, and
I have ventured to promise their taste an evening's gratification by seeing Mr. Godwin face
to face!!!!! Will you do them and me in them the pleasure of drinking tea and supping with
me at the old number 16 on Friday or Saturday next? An early nomination of the day will very
much oblige yours sincerely,

CH. LAMB.

[Dr. Christy's brother and sister I do not identify.]

LETTER 87

CHARLES LAMB TO WALTER WILSON

August 14th, 1801.

Dear Wilson.--I am extremely sorry that any serious difference should subsist between us on
account of some foolish behaviour of mine at Richmond; you knew me well enough before--that
a very little liquor will cause a considerable alteration in me.

I beg you to impute my conduct solely to that, and not to any deliberate intention of offending
you, from whom I have received so many friendly attentions. I know that you think a very important
difference in opinion with respect to some more serious subjects between us makes me a dangerous
companion; but do not rashly infer, from some slight and light expressions which I may have
made use of in a moment of levity in your presence, without sufficient regard to your feelings--do
not conclude that I am an inveterate enemy to all religion. I have had a time of seriousness,
and I have known the importance and reality of a religious belief.

Latterly, I acknowledge, much of my seriousness has gone off, whether from new company or some
other new associations; but I still retain at bottom a conviction of the truth, and a certainty
of the usefulness of religion. I will not pretend to more gravity or feeling than I at present
possess; my intention is not to persuade you that any great alteration is probable in me; sudden
converts are superficial and transitory; I only want you to believe that I have stamina of
seriousness within me, and that I desire nothing more than a return of that friendly intercourse
which used to subsist between us, but which my folly has suspended.

Believe me, very affectionately yours,

C. LAMB.

[Walter Wilson (1781-1847) was, perhaps, at this time, or certainly previously, in the India
House with Lamb. Later he became a bookseller, and then, inheriting money, he entered at the
Inner Temple. We meet him again later in the correspondence, in connection with his Life of
Defoe, 1830.

Dear Manning,--I have forborne writing so long (and so have you, for the matter of that), until
I am almost ashamed either to write or to forbear any longer. But as your silence may proceed
from some worse cause than neglect--from illness, or some mishap which may have befallen you--I
begin to be anxious. You may have been burnt out, or you may have married, or you may have
broken a limb, or turned country parson; any of these would be excuse sufficient for not coming
to my supper. I am not so unforgiving as the nobleman in "Saint Mark." For me, nothing new
has happened to me, unless that the poor "Albion" died last Saturday of the world's neglect,
and with it the fountain of my puns is choked up for ever.

All the Lloyds wonder that you do not write to them. They apply to me for the cause. Relieve
me from this weight of ignorance, and enable me to give a truly oracular response.

I have been confined some days with swelled cheek and rheumatism--they divide and govern me
with a viceroy-headache in the middle. I can neither write nor read without great pain. It
must be something like obstinacy that I choose this time to write to you in after many months
interruption.

Yours, as ever,

C. LAMB.

[The Albion was at the time of its decease owned and edited by John Fenwick, a friend of Lamb's
whom we shall meet again. Lamb told the story in the Elia essay on "Newspapers" in the following
passage:--

"From the office of the Morning Post (for we may as well exhaust our Newspaper Reminiscences
at once) by change of property in the paper, we were transferred, mortifying exchanged to the
office of the Albion Newspaper, late Rackstrow's Museum, in Fleet Street. What a transition--
from a handsome apartment, from rose-wood desks, and silver inkstands, to an office--no office,
but a den rather, but just redeemed from the occupation of dead monsters, of which it seemed
redolent--from the centre of loyalty and fashion, to a focus of vulgarity and sedition! Here
in murky closet, inadequate from its square contents to the receipt of the two bodies of Editor,
and humble paragraph-maker, together at one time, sat in the discharge of his new Editorial
functions (the 'Bigod' of Elia) the redoubted John Fenwick.

"F., without a guinea in his pocket, and having left not many in the pockets of his friends
whom he might command, had purchased (on tick doubtless) the whole and sole Editorship, Proprietorship,
with all the rights and titles (such as they were worth) of the Albion, from one Lovell; of
whom we know nothing, save that he had stood in the pillory for a libel on the Prince of Wales.
With this hopeless concern--for it had been sinking ever since its commencement, and could
now reckon upon not more than a hundred subscribers--F. resolutely determined upon pulling
down the Government in the first instance, and making both our fortunes by way of corollary.
For seven weeks and more did this infatuated Democrat go about borrowing seven shilling pieces,
and lesser coin, to meet the daily demands of the Stamp Office, which allowed no credit to
publications of that side in politics. There were times, indeed, when we signed for our more
gentleman-like occupation under Stuart. But with change of masters it is ever change of service.
Already one paragraph, and another, as we learned afterwards from a gentleman at the Treasury,
had begun to be marked at that office, with a view of its being submitted at least to the attention
of the proper Law Officers-- when an unlucky, or rather lucky epigram from our pen, aimed at
Sir J------s M------h, who was on the eve of departing for India to reap the fruits of his
apostacy, as F. pronounced it, (it is hardly worth particularising), happening to offend the
nice sense of Lord, or, as he then delighted to be called, Citizen Stanhope, deprived F. at
once of the last hopes of a guinea from the last patron that had stuck by us; and breaking
up our establishment, left us to the safe, but somewhat mortifying, neglect of the Crown Lawyers."

There are, however, in Lamb's account, written thirty years afterwards, some errors. He passed
rather from the Albion to the Post than from the Post to the Albion (see the notes in Vol.
II.). Sir James Mackintosh was not in 1801 on the eve of departing for India: he did not get
the post of Recordership of Bombay until two years later. The epigram probably referred to
an earlier rumour of a post for him. His apostasy consisted in recanting in 1800 from the opinions
set forth in his Vindiciae Gallicae, 1791, a book supporting the French Revolutionists, and
in becoming a close friend of his old enemy Burke. I have not succeeded in finding a file of
the Albion, nor, I believe, has any one else.

"The nobleman in 'St. Mark.'" Lamb was thinking of Luke xiv. 16-24.]

LETTER 89

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[P.M. August 31, 1801.]

I heard that you were going to China, with a commission from the Wedgwoods to collect hints
for their pottery, and to teach the Chinese perspective. But I did not know that London lay
in your way to Pekin. I am seriously glad of it, for I shall trouble you with a small present
for the Emperor of Usbeck Tartary, as you go by his territories: it is a fragment of a "Dissertation
on the state of political parties in England at the end of the eighteenth century," which will
no doubt be very interesting to his Imperial Majesty. It was written originally in English
for the use of the two and twenty readers of "The Albion" (this calculation includes a printer,
four pressmen, and a devil); but becoming of no use when "The Albion" stopped, I got it translated
into Usbeck Tartar by my good friend Tibet Kulm, who is come to London with a civil invitation
from the Cham to the English nation to go over to the worship of the Lama.

"The Albion" is dead--dead as nail in door--and my revenues have died with it; but I am not
as a man without hope. I have got a sort of opening to the "Morning Chronicle," !!! Mister
Manning, by means of that common dispenser of benevolence, Mister Dyer. I have not seen Perry
the editor yet: but I am preparing a specimen. I shall have a difficult job to manage, for
you must know that Mister Perry, in common with the great body of the Whigs, thinks "The Albion"
very low. I find I must rise a peg or so, be a little more decent and less abusive; for, to
confess the truth, I had arrived to an abominable pitch; I spared neither age nor sex when
my cue was given me. N'importe (as they say in French): any climate will suit me. So you are
about to bring your old face-making face to London. You could not come in a better time for
my purposes; for I have just lost Rickman, a faint idea of whose character I sent you. He is
gone to Ireland for a year or two, to make his fortune; and I have lost by his going, what
[it] seems to me I can never recover--a finished man. His memory will be to me as the brazen
serpent to the Israelites,--I shall look up to it, to keep me upright and honest. But he may
yet bring back his honest face to England one day. I wish your affairs with the Emperor of
China had not been so urgent, that you might have stayed in Great Britain a year or two longer,
to have seen him; for, judging from my own experience, I almost dare pronounce you never saw
his equal. I never saw a man that could be at all a second or substitute for him in any sort.

Imagine that what is here erased was an apology and explanation, perfectly satisfactory you
may be sure! for rating this man so highly at the expense of ----, and ----, and ----, and
M----, and ----, and ----, and ----. But Mister Burke has explained this phenomenon of our
nature very prettily in his letter to a Member of the National Assembly, or else in his Appeal
to the old Whigs, I forget which. Do you remember an instance, from Homer (who understood these
matters tolerably well) of Priam driving away his other sons with expressions of wrath and
bitter reproach, when Hector was just dead.

I live where I did, in a private manner, because I don't like state. Nothing is so disagreeable
to me as the clamours and applauses of the mob. For this reason I live in an obscure situation
in one of the courts of the Temple.

C. L.

[Manning had taken up Chinese at Cambridge, and in 1800 he had moved to Paris to study the
language under Dr. Hagan. He did not, however, go to China until 1806. The Wedgwoods were Coleridge's
patrons. Lamb's reference to them is, of course, a joke.

The Morning Chronicle was then the chief Whig paper, the principal opponent of the Morning
Post. I have, I think, traced two or three of Lamb's contributions to the Chronicle at this
period, but they are not of his best. He quickly moved on to the Post, but, as we shall see,
only for a short period.

Rickman went to Dublin in 1801 with Abbot, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and was appointed
Deputy-Keeper of the Privy Seal. He returned in February, 1802.

The reference to Burke is to his justification of his particular solicitude for the Crown,
as the part of the British Constitution then in danger, though not in itself more important
than the other parts, in the "Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs." The Priam-Hector illustration
is there employed.

"Homer." See The Iliad, Book 24, lines 311-316.

Following this letter should come one from Lamb to John Rickman, dated September 16, 1801 (the
first of a valuable series printed in Canon Ainger's latest edition), saying that he and his
sister are at Margate. He has been trying to write for the Morning Chronicle but with little
success. Is now meditating a book: "Why should every creature make books but I?" After a passage
concerning George Burnett, Lamb describes Godwin and his courtship of his second wife--"a very
disgusting woman." "You never saw such a philosophic coxcomb, nor any one play the Romeo so
unnaturally."

Here should come a mutilated letter, not yet printed, I believe, shown to me by Mr. Bertram
Dobell, from Lamb to Manning, written probably at Margate, where this year's holidays were
spent. It is deeply interesting and I wish 1 could print it even with its imperfections. There
are references to White, Dyer, Coleridge ("Pity that such human frailties should perch upon
the margin of Ulswater Lake") and the Lloyds. Also to politics and the riddle of life. "What
we came here for I know no more than [an] Ideot."]

LETTER 90

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN Sept. 9, 1801.

Dear Sir,--Nothing runs in my head when I think of your story, but that you should make it
as like the life of Savage as possible. That is a known and familiar tale, and its effect on
the public mind has been very great. Many of the incidents in the true history are readily
made dramatical. For instance, Savage used to walk backwards and forwards o' nights to his
mother's window, to catch a glimpse of her, as she passed with a candle. With some such situation
the play might happily open. I would plunge my Hero, exactly like Savage, into difficulties
and embarrassments, the consequences of an unsettled mind: out of which he may be extricated
by the unknown interference of his mother. He should be attended from the beginning by a friend,
who should stand in much the same relation towards him as Horatio to Altamont in the play of
the Fair Penitent. A character of this sort seems indispensable. This friend might gain interviews
with the mother, when the son was refused sight of her. Like Horatio with Calista, he might
wring his [her?] soul. Like Horatio, he might learn the secret first. He might be exactly in
the same perplexing situation, when he had learned it, whether to tell it or conceal it from
the Son (I have still Savage in my head) might kill a man (as he did) in an affray--he should
receive a pardon, as Savage did--and the mother might interfere to have him banished. This
should provoke the Friend to demand an interview with her husband, and disclose the whole secret.
The husband, refusing to believe anything to her dishonour, should fight with him. The husband
repents before he dies. The mother explains and confesses everything in his presence. The son
is admitted to an interview with his now acknowledged mother. Instead of embraces, she resolves
to abstract herself from all pleasure, even from his sight, in voluntary penance all her days
after. This is crude indeed!! but I am totally unable to suggest a better. I am the worst hand
in the world at a plot. But I understand enough of passion to predict that your story, with
some of Savage's, which has no repugnance, but a natural alliance with it, cannot fail. The
mystery of the suspected relationship--the suspicion, generated from slight and forgotten circumstances,
coming at last to act as Instinct, and so to be mistaken for Instinct--the son's unceasing
pursuit and throwing of himself in his mother's way, something like Falkland's eternal persecution
of Williams--the high and intricate passion in the mother, the being obliged to shun and keep
at a distance the thing nearest to her heart--to be cruel, where her heart yearns to be kind,
without a possibility of explanation. You have the power of life and death and the hearts of
your auditors in your hands; still Harris will want a skeleton, and he must have it. I can
only put in some sorry hints. The discovery to the son's friend may take place not before the
3d act--in some such way as this. The mother may cross the street--he may point her out to
some gay companion of his as the Beauty of Leghorn--the pattern for wives, &c. &c. His companion,
who is an Englishman, laughs at his mistake, and knows her to have been the famous Nancy Dawson,
or any one else, who captivated the English king. Some such way seems dramatic, and speaks
to the Eye. The audience will enter into the Friend's surprise, and into the perplexity of
his situation. These Ocular Scenes are so many great landmarks, rememberable headlands and
lighthouses in the voyage. Macbeth's witch has a good advice to a magic [? tragic] writer,
what to do with his spectator.

"Show his eyes, and grieve his heart."

The most difficult thing seems to be, What to do with the husband? You will not make him jealous
of his own son? that is a stale and an unpleasant trick in Douglas, etc. Can't you keep him
out of the way till you want him, as the husband of Isabella is conveniently sent off till
his cue comes? There will be story enough without him, and he will only puzzle all. Catastrophes
are worst of all. Mine is most stupid. I only propose it to fulfil my engagement, not in hopes
to convert you.

It is always difficult to get rid of a woman at the end of a tragedy. Men may fight and die.
A woman must either take poison, which is a nasty trick, or go mad, which is not fit to be
shown, or retire, which is poor, only retiring is most reputable.

I am sorry I can furnish you no better: but I find it extremely difficult to settle my thoughts
upon anything but the scene before me, when I am from home, I am from home so seldom. If any,
the least hint crosses me, I will write again, and I very much wish to read your plan, if you
could abridge and send it. In this little scrawl you must take the will for the deed, for I
most sincerely wish success to your play.--Farewell,

C. L.

[This and the letter that follows it contain Lamb's suggestions for Godwin's play "Faulkener,"
upon which he was now meditating, but which was not performed until 1807. Lamb wrote the prologue,
a poem in praise of Defoe, since it was in Roxana, or at least in one edition of it, that the
counterpart to, or portion of, Godwin's plot is found. There, however, the central figure is
a daughter, not a son. See the letters to Walter Wilson.

Mr. Swinburne, in the little article to which I have already alluded, says of this and the
following letter: "Several of Lamb's suggestions, in spite of his own modest disclaimer ('I
am the worst hand in the world at a plot'), seem to me, especially as coming from the author
of a tragedy memorable alike for sweetness of moral emotion and emptiness of theatrical subject,
worthy of note for the instinctive intuition of high dramatic effect implied in their rough
and rapid outlines."

Richard Savage, the poet, whose life Johnson wrote, claimed to be the illegitimate son of Lady
Macclesfield by Lord Rivers. Savage killed Sinclair in a tavern quarrel in 1727, and was condemned
to death. His pardon was obtained by the Countess of Hertford.

"The Fair Penitent" is by Nicholas Rowe.

Falkland and Williams are in Godwin's novel Caleb Williams, dramatised by Colman as "The Iron
Chest."

"Harris will want a skeleton." Thomas Harris, stage manager of Covent Garden Theatre.

Nancy Dawson (1730?-1767), the famous dancer and bona roba.

"Douglas"--Home's tragedy.

"The husband of Isabella." In Southern's "Fatal Marriage."]

LETTER 91

(Fragment)

CHARLES LAMB TO WILLIAM GODWIN

Margate, Sep. 17, 1801.

I shall be glad to come home and talk these matters over with you. I have read your scheme
very attentively. That Arabella has been mistress to King Charles is sufficient to all the
purposes of the story. It can only diminish that respect we feel for her to make her turn whore
to one of the Lords of his Bed-chamber. Her son must not know that she has been a whore: it
matters not that she has been whore to a King: equally in both cases it is against decorum
and against the delicacy of a son's respect that he should be privy to it. No doubt, many sons
might feel a wayward pleasure in the honourable guilt of their mothers; but is it a true feeling?
Is it the best sort of feeling? Is it a feeling to be exposed on theatres to mothers and daughters?
Your conclusion (or rather Defoe's) comes far short of the tragic ending, which is always expected;
and it is not safe to disappoint. A tragic auditory wants blood. They care but little about
a man and his wife parting. Besides, what will you do with the son, after all his pursuits
and adventures? Even quietly leave him to take guinea-and-a-half lodgings with mamma in Leghorn!
O impotent and pacific measures!... I am certain that you must mix up some strong ingredients
of distress to give a savour to your pottage. I still think that you may, and must, graft the
story of Savage upon Defoe. Your hero must kill a man or do some thing. Can't you bring him
to the gallows or some great mischief, out of which she must have recourse to an explanation
with her husband to save him. Think on this. The husband, for instance, has great friends in
Court at Leghorn. The son is condemned to death. She cannot teaze him for a stranger. She must
tell the whole truth. Or she may tease him, as for a stranger, till (like Othello in Cassio's
case) he begins to suspect her for her importunity. Or, being pardoned, can she not teaze her
husband to get him banished? Something of this I suggested before. Both is best. The murder
and the pardon will make business for the fourth act, and the banishment and explanation (by
means of the Friend I want you to draw) the fifth. You must not open any of the truth to Dawley
by means of a letter. A letter is a feeble messenger on the stage. Somebody, the son or his
friend, must, as a coup de main, be exasperated, and obliged to tell the husband. Damn the
husband and his "gentlemanlike qualities." Keep him out of sight, or he will trouble all. Let
him be in England on trade, and come home, as Biron does in Isabella, in the fourth act, when
he is wanted. I am for introducing situations, sort of counterparts to situations, which have
been tried in other plays--like but not the same. On this principle I recommended a friend
like Horatio in the "Fair Penitent," and on this principle I recommend a situation like Othello,
with relation to Desdemona's intercession for Cassio. By-scenes may likewise receive hints.
The son may see his mother at a mask or feast, as Romeo, Juliet. The festivity of the company
contrasts with the strong perturbations of the individuals. Dawley may be told his wife's past
unchastity at a mask by some witch-character--as Macbeth upon the heath, in dark sentences.
This may stir his brain, and be forgot, but come in aid of stronger proof hereafter. From this,
what you will perhaps call whimsical way of counterparting, this honest stealing, and original
mode of plagiarism, much yet, I think, remains to be sucked. Excuse these abortions. I thought
you would want the draught soon again, and I would not send it empty away.--Yours truly,

WILLIAM GODWIN!!!

Somers Town, 17th Sept., 1801.

[The point of signing this letter with Godwin's name and adding his address (Lamb, it will
be noticed, was then at Margate) is not clear.

I place here the following letter, not having any clue as to date, which is immaterial:--]

LETTER 92

CHARLES LAMB TO MRS. WILLIAM GODWIN

Dear Mrs. G.,--Having observed with some concern that Mr. Godwin is a little fastidious in
what he eats for supper, I herewith beg to present his palate with a piece of dried salmon.
I am assured it is the best that swims in Trent. If you do not know how to dress it, allow
me to add that it should be cut in thin slices and boiled in paper previously prepared in butter.
Wishing it exquisite, I remain,--Much as before, yours sincerely,

C. LAMB.

Some add mashed potatoes.

[Following this letter should come a letter from Lamb to John Rickman, describing the state
of their two George friends: George the First (George Dyer) and George the Second (George Burnett).
Burnett, he says, as ill becomes adversity as Dyer would prosperity. He tells also of another
poor acquaintance of Rickman's--one Simonds with a slit lip, who has been to Lamb to borrow
money. "Saving his dirty shirt and his physiognomy and his 'bacco box, together with a certain
kiddy air in his walk, a man w'd have gone near to have mistaken him for a gentleman. He has
a sort of ambition to be so misunderstood."]

LETTER 93

CHARLES LAMB TO JOHN RICKMAN

To
  John Rickman, Esqr.,
      Dublin Castle.

[No date. ? November, 1801.]

