"Why, do you mean to say that anybody would care for that, or think of the trouble, with a
friend lying sick in their house? I never heard of such a thing," exclaimed Bijou, expressing
the liveliest emotions of astonishment and contempt in face and voice. "Of course we don't
want you to get sick, for your own sake; but if you do we'll do everything in this world to
make you comfortable and cure you. And the house won't be upset at all; and we don't care a
snap what the servants think. You must put that perfectly ridiculous idea right out of your
head, and turn over and try to go to sleep."

When the doctor came he looked grave even for a doctor, and felt it his duty to tell Miss Noel
that she might have yellow fever. It was always to be had for the catching in Cuba, and her
symptoms were suspicious, though he could not, of course, be positive. Here was a sensation.
It was curious to see the effect this declaration had on the different members of the household.
Sir Robert, after turning pale and saying "God bless my soul! you don't mean it," to the doctor,
rallied from the shock as soon as he had left the house, and refused to believe anything of
the kind, talked about "the art conjectural," and did all he could to impress this view on
Miss Noel, who promptly gave herself up as lost, told him that she had made her will "before
leaving town for the North" the year before, asked that her body might be "taken back to dear
old England," if this could be done without risk to others, and begged that she might be "sent
straight away to the hospital" and no one allowed to come in contact with her meanwhile. Bijou,
Ethel, and Parsons stoutly refused to be hustled out of her room, declaring that they had already
been exposed to the danger, if danger there was, and protested that they were ready to nurse
her through anything. Mr. Brown, coming home to dinner, was horrified as by some impiety to
hear it proposed that Miss Noel should go to a hospital. "Admitting, for the sake of argument,"
said this ever-judicial host, "that the doctor is right, what follows? Why, that Miss Noel
will require great care, and, humanly speaking, will incur additional risk in leaving my house.
I cannot dream of allowing it. My married daughter has taken her children to see their grandmother;
there are only Bijou and myself to be considered, and neither of us has any fear of the disease,
or, indeed, any great belief in the reality of the danger. I cannot think of letting a guest,
and that guest a stranger here, go to a public place of the kind and commit herself to hired
nurses. Oh, no! That is out of the question."

"I never heard of such a thing,--never. It would be perfectly shameful!" protested Bijou afresh.
And so Sir Robert was overruled, and, much touched by this view of the matter, tried to express
thanks on behalf of Miss Noel, bungled out a few short phrases, very different from his usually
fluent utterances, shook Mr. Brown's hand heartily, sat down with a very red face, and then
started up and dismissed the carriage, which, pending this decision, had been waiting at the door.

It chanced that Mrs. Sykes had been out for some hours that day, and had then come back and
gone into the library, where she spent some time in writing to the friends who had entertained
her in Central New York. She had just finished putting up the morning paper for them containing
a full and carefully-marked account of the defalcation and disappearance of a bank-president
in Delaware in whom she recognized the brother of her former hostess, when Ethel looked in
at the door and said, "Oh, you are here," and, coming forward, gave her the dreadful news.
It was well that this final mark of her gratitude and graceful interest was complete down to
the very postage-stamp, for after this Mrs. Sykes had no time for delicate attentions.

"Stand off! good heavens! Don't come near me. Get away!" she shrieked, and for once every particle
of color left her face. The next moment she rushed up-stairs to her room, put on her bonnet
and cloak in a flash, and, without farewells of any kind, or thought of so much as her darling
Bobo, left the house immediately. She went first, and that as fast as her feet could carry
her, to the nearest druggist's, where she invested lavishly in disinfectants and hung innumerable
camphor-bags about her person. From there she went to the nearest hotel, from which she wrote
to the Browns, giving instructions about her luggage, which she said must be packed by Parsons
and sent over to England, to be unpacked at Liverpool, for fear of infection, by "a person"
whom she would engage. She then took the first steamer leaving New York, and when she got on
board gave vent to a perfectly sincere and devout exclamation, "Thank heaven, I have done with
America!" From Liverpool she wrote back a lively account of the passage, and expressed the
deepest interest in "dear Miss Noel," about whom she had been "quite wretched," but who she
"hoped was doing nicely by this time and would make a good recovery." She also hoped, and even
more earnestly, that "dearest Bobo was not being neglected in the general hubbub, and given
his biscuits without their being properly soaked first, and his chicken in great pieces, not
carefully minced," and begged that every care should be taken of him, imploring that everybody
would remember that "hot milk invariably made the poor dear ill." She also sent Bijou a small
and particularly hideous pin-cushion, which she said had been made for the Ashantee Bazaar
by the Grand Duchess of Aufstadt.

The defection of Mrs. Sykes was not greatly deplored by anybody, but it was deeply resented
by Parsons, who it is to be feared was not as devoted to Bobo as his mistress expected.

"I'm not one to run away,--not if it was lions and tigers,--like some," she remarked; "but
if hever I get back to the hold country I'll go down on my bended knees, if it's in the very
cab at Liverpool, and thank 'eaven I'm at 'ome again; which I 'ope I may live to see it."

Happily, Miss Noel did not have yellow fever. Unhappily, she had a fever, if not the dreaded
one, and was ill for several weeks,--so ill that it seemed at one time as though she had done
with travelling-days. Anxious weeks these for Ethel and Sir Robert and Mr. Heathcote, trying
ones for Bijou, who had at last found "a rational occupation." For it was she who, with Parsons's
help, nursed Miss Noel faithfully, tenderly, efficiently, Ethel being a most willing coadjutress,
but sadly out of place in a sick-room. The skill, the self-reliance, and the unselfishness
that Bijou showed surprised even those who knew her best, and quite endeared her to Sir Robert.

"That girl is one in a thousand," he said to Ethel more than once; "and I was such a wiseacre
that I thought her a useless, spoiled creature who would never be anything but a domestic fetich.
I shall ask her pardon, when I get the chance, for having so shamefully underrated and misjudged
her. Could there be a kinder family? If Augusta had been a near and dear relative they could
scarcely have shown more solicitude. Every luxury, every kindness that the most thoughtful
affection could have suggested has been lavished on her. Everything has been subordinated to
the one object,--her recovery,--and all their ordinary pursuits, amusements, occupations, cheerfully
laid aside, apparently as a mere matter of course. At least, they disclaim the idea of sacrifice;
and in all that they have done there has been nothing perfunctory. If they have merely been
performing what they considered a duty, I must say that they have had the grace and innate
good breeding to make it appear that it was a pleasure. Just so."

Miss Noel had been down-stairs on the sofa for three days, having been officially pronounced
convalescent, when who should walk in upon her but the Ketchums,--Mabel serene and smiling,
and Job in a state of evident satisfaction and radiant good humor.

"Well, now, this is something like. Up and dressed, and looking first-rate for an invalid,"
he called out from the door, and then, advancing, took one of her thin hands with much gentleness,
and said, "Getting well, ain't you? That's right. I am so glad. Creepin' through mercy, eh?
as Father Root used to say."

Mabel slipped into a seat near Miss Noel, and, after some inquiries about Sir Robert, Ethel,
and the Browns, told her what concern they had felt about her illness. "Husband telegraphed
constantly to know how you were going on; but the replies were often most unsatisfactory; and
it is so very nice to see you up again. You will soon be about, and the sea-voyage will set
you up wonderfully. That puts me in mind of--Tell her, husband; show her."

Thus stimulated, Mr. Ketchum drew out an enormous pocket-book, stuffed full of papers, and
attacked it rather than looked through it, drew out a handful of letters, bills, memorandums,
tore up several, crushed others back into his case, walked swiftly into the hall, and came
back triumphantly with his over-coat on his arm and a sheet of foolscap in his hand.

"Dear, dear, husband, you should not mess about like this," said Mabel, "littering up the carpet."

She would have picked up the bits of paper, but he interfered. "Here! I'll do that, Daisy;
sit down. Daisy's occupation in the next world, Miss Noel, is going to be sweeping all the
dirty clouds out of the sky, and polishing up the harps and crowns, and telling the small angels
not to leave the ivory gates ajar, for fear of draughts, and to be sure and put their buckets
and spades away tidily when they have done digging in the golden sands, and not to get over-heated
and fall ill, because they can't die and have got nowhere to go. Now, look at this" (getting
up from his knees and holding up the foolscap, which was covered with drawings of some mechanical
contrivance): "I got thinking about you one day and your illness, and that you ought to stay
on deck all you could, and to have the right kind of chair, and suddenly this idea hit me right
on the head, and I got out my pencil and started in on it. And here it is. This is only the
rough draught, you understand."

With growing enthusiasm he explained all the details, while Mabel looked intently and respectfully
at the paper he held, and interjected admiring comments: "Isn't it a most wonderful thing?
and wasn't it clever of husband to think of it?--but, then, he is always thinking of things.
Husband has got such a surprising talent for invention, and grasps an idea at once."

"Oh, no, I haven't. I think I could have found out the way to my mouth as soon as any other
baby, that's all. But this is a lucky hit. I am going to have it patented. It's a first-rate
thing. This is the way you lash it to the mast when you want to; and when you want to move
about you let down the rollers and fasten them with this hook, and go where you please. Twenty-seven
changes of position. Why, you can read, eat, sleep, ride, get married, run for Congress, die,
and be buried in that chair, if you want to!" he said, by way of final recommendation.

"Thank you, but I don't wish to die. I would rather live," said Miss Noel, laughing cheerfully
for the first time since her illness. "And did you really design it for me? How very kind!
I must really try to get it worked out, if you think it will answer, as of course you do."

"Oh, don't you bother your head about that," he replied. "I worked it all out one night, and
set a smart carpenter at it the next morning before breakfast. And it's a perfect success.
And I've got it down at the hotel, ready for you. I'm coming up here to put you in it and take
you down to the steamer myself."

Sir Robert and Mr. Heathcote now came in (the latter having returned from Baltimore an affianced
man), and Ethel and Bijou followed, and everybody was delighted to see everybody else; and
they had so much to talk about that Sir Robert almost forgot that he was engaged to preside
over a children's dinner-party at the house of an intimate friend of the De Witts. He hurried
off, though; and never had he "looked into" ten more charming little faces than brightened
on his arrival. The way in which he radiated good humor, intelligence, benevolence, told stories
and jokes that kept the little company shouting with laughter, and finally rose and got off
an impromptu piece of doggerel with exactly ten verses, and each child's name and some peculiarity
brought out in a way to convulse even mammas and the maids, was as indescribable as delightful.
I am not sure that he did not enjoy it more than any of the grand entertainments that he had
been asked to; and as for the children, they remember it to this day, although they are on
the verge of young-ladyhood and at college now and have very serious demands made on their
memories.

After a pleasant little interval of reunion and various diversions, the day came at last for
our English people to leave the country. What they felt about this necessity was well expressed
for them by Sir Robert in the last letter that he wrote before going on the steamer.

"I am glad to turn my face toward the old land, which must always seem to me the best of all
lands," he said; "but I take with me the pleasantest memories of the new. It has been a constant
surprise and pleasure to me to find how like they are to each other in all essentials, greatly
as they often seem to differ on the surface. I have had a most interesting and delightful tour.
Such opportunities of observation as have come in my way, and such authentic information as
I have been able to lay hold of, I have tried to make the most of; but in so short a time I
could not do more than glean in a field that offers a rich harvest to more fortunate travellers.
From the moment of landing until now I have been made the recipient of a hospitality too generous
and too flattering to be appropriated to myself in my individual capacity. I must either set
it down to the good will which Americans feel toward England when not irritated and repelled
by the insolent and overbearing among us,--who have done more to make a breach between the
two peoples than you would fancy, and inflicted wounds that all the ambassadors and public-dinner
fine speeches cannot heal,--or to that true politeness which Americans observe in the most
casual relations, and the immense, apparently inexhaustible kindness which it is their habit
to show to strangers. I find in them a certain spontaneity and affectionateness that has quite
won my heart."

To the credit of Mr. Ketchum be it said that if Miss Noel had been made of cobwebs she could
have been safely transported in his invention to the steamer. This feat was comfortably achieved,
at all events, and Mr. Ketchum, having superintended it, left Miss Noel in the chair on deck;
and there were kisses and embraces between the ladies, a hurried rush to the wharf, and the
steamer moved out, with Miss Noel crying softly, and saying, "Dear, dear Bijou! Dear America!
How good they have been to me!" and Ethel and Sir Robert hanging over the side; and ashore
the Browns, the doctor, Mr. Heathcote, the De Witts, and Mr. Ketchum and Mabel looking earnestly
at them and waving their adieux.

"You'll find a couple of barrels of pecans at your place. I forgot to tell you. Good-by! good-by!
Call again!" shouted Mr. Ketchum. And then, turning to his wife, he said, "Don't you wish you
were going home, too?"

Mabel stopped to straighten little Jared Ponsonby's hat and settle his curls, somewhat disordered
by the wind from the river. Then she turned a face full of sweet content toward her husband;
her simple and serious look met his twinkling, bantering one for a moment. "No, dearest," she
said, as she took his arm and walked away. "You know that I don't. You are my home."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ketchums went back to Fairfield, and spent the two years that followed very happily and
quite uneventfully in that simple round of duties and pleasures which the foolish find so dull
and the wise would not exchange for any other. And not the least agreeable feature of this
life was what was known as "the English letters," although this really included books, music,
photographs, sketches, and a great variety of things, from the J. pens that came for Mrs. Vane
and the larding-needles that housewifely Mabel had coveted that she might "set a proper fowl
before husband," up to packages of a disgraceful size and bulk addressed to Mr. Ketchum in
Sir Robert's hand. Sir Robert was a regular and delightful correspondent; Miss Noel and Ethel
were equally kind about writing; Mrs. Sykes sent a very characteristic epistle or two to the
family after her return, and then let "silence like a poultice" come to heal the blows she
had inflicted.

"What do you hear from that idiotic young Ramsay?" "How is Ramsay opening the American oyster?"
"What of poor Mr. Ramsay?" "Is Mr. Ramsay coming back to England?" were questions often asked
by these correspondents; and Mr. Ketchum was able to give some account of that fascinating
fortune-seeker.

Mr. Ramsay wrote to him occasionally, which was the more flattering because he repeatedly said
in these productions that he "hated doing a letter most tremendously," and very truly remarked
that "the worst of it is that you've got to be thinking what to say, which is an awful bore,
and ten to one the pen is bad, and spelling takes a lot out of you if you are not used to looking
up the words." Whether, "not being a literary chap," he would have written to Mr. Ketchum at
all had not the Ketchum and Brown properties marched and the two families been good friends
is one of those nice questions which it is hard to decide. His letters were headed "Out in
the Bush" at first, and were full of the adventures and amusements that his novel surroundings
afforded him. Then came more sober epistles from "The Ranch," with a good deal in them about
"these dirty brutes of Mexicans and ignorant cowboys," the long, dull days, the doubts that
had begun to agitate him as to the possibility of getting the millions that had seemed almost
within his grasp in London out of "old Brown's farm." Finally, after a long silence, Job got
a letter one day, written in pencil, that betrayed the deepest depression and most utter disgust.
He had "come an awful cropper from a mustang," and been laid up for three months; his money
was all gone; he could get nothing to do. "I tried to get a clerkship in a 'country store'
before I got my fall," he explained, "though if I have got to that I had better go back to
England, where those fellows get a half-holiday on Saturdays and lots of bank holidays, and
are in civilization at least. Perhaps if the governor saw me with a quill behind my ear, or
riding down to the city on top of a 'bus, smoking a pipe, he'd do something for me for the
honor of the family. But he's in a beastly humor now, and wouldn't send me a fiver to save
my life. He says that I'm not worth my salt anywhere, and that he washes his hands of me. And
Bill has taken to patronizing me so tremendously that I'd starve rather than ask his help.
So I must just stick it out here, I suppose, unless you meant what you said when we parted,
and will help me to get back home, where I have friends, a brother-in-law especially, an awfully
good sort of fellow, that would stick to a fellow through thick and thin, no matter what other
fellows said of him. There's a lot of 'fellows' in this last sentence, but I never was a clever
fellow--I had better stop. I am getting worse mixed up than ever."

Mr. Ketchum's reply to this was a short, cordial, hearty note, enclosing a check for five hundred
dollars, telling Mr. Ramsay to draw upon him for more if he needed it, bidding him keep "a
stiff upper lip," and advising him to stop at Fairfield en route to England and see if there
wasn't some better way out of his difficulties. About two weeks after this Mr. Ramsay walked
into Mr. Ketchum's office and almost wrung his hand off, "Awfully kind of you," "awfully glad
to see you," "awfully good news to tell you," was poured out as in one breath by the bronzed,
thin, but still beautiful Englishman, whose illness had given a last and quite irresistible
charm of spirituality to his handsome face.

"Sit down, man, and tell us all about it," said Mr. Ketchum, when he had given him an embrace
half real, half theatrical. "Delighted to see you, if it comes to that."

"Here's that check you sent me," said Mr. Ramsay, going straight to his point, as usual. "I
never got it cashed, because I got by the very same post good news from England. My great-aunt
Maxwell is dead at Bath and has left me all her money, twenty thousand pounds. Isn't it the
luckiest fluke that ever was? But all the same it is a kindness that I shan't forget. You are
an awfully good sort to have done it. Most fellows would have seen me in Halifax first, you
know. And if ever you want a friend you'll know where to find him, that's all. Only fancy all
this money falling in when I hadn't a penny and was in perfect despair! Such luck! And such
a fluke, as I have said. You see, it was all to have been Bill's. He has always been my aunt's
favorite, though at first it was to have been divided between us; only when I was a little
chap I blew off the tail of her parrot with a bunch of fire-crackers. Haw! haw! haw! I was
never allowed there afterward, and she hated the very name of me. She and Bill have hit it
off together so well that he never had the least fear of me stepping in. But on last Valentine's
Day it seems that she got an awfully cocky, cheeky valentine of an old maid putting on a wig
and painting her face, and it had the Stoke-Pogis post-mark, and she took it into her head
that Bill had sent it, flew into a most awful rage, and sent for her solicitor and changed
her will. And then, most fortunate thing, she died that night, and couldn't make another."

"Well, you are a doting nephew, upon my word," said Job.

"It is no use of me being a hypocrite and going about looking cut up and pretending that I
am sorry when I am not," replied Mr. Ramsay. "I haven't seen her for years, and she was nasty
to me even when I was a child, and she was a regular old cat, and no good to herself or anybody
else. I don't see why I should pull a long face and turn crocodile because she made me her
heir to spite Bill, though it comes in most beautifully for me. I don't mean to keep it all,
though I could swell it considerably if I did. It would be a dirty thing to do, for Bill has
been brought up to expect it and didn't send the valentine at all. I shall go halves with him;
that seems fair all round." Mr. Ketchum agreed with him, and Mr. Ramsay went on to make further
confidences, in which it appeared that he still cared for Miss Brown, and had "thought an awful
lot about her," and now rejoiced to find himself in a position to address her if she was still
free. Tom Price, coming in, could scarcely announce that the buggy was at the door for goggling
at Mr. Ramsay. The two men drove rapidly out to Fairfield, talking all the way, and Mr. Ramsay
stared very hard at the Brown mansion and grounds, and got a pretty welcome from Mabel that
warmed his heart not a little. What he said to Bijou in an interview that evening of four hours
is no business of ours.

It began after quite formal greetings with, "Do you know that you are looking most awfully
well, Miss Brown?" on his part.

"You didn't dream that I cared for you, did you?" said Bijou toward its close, anxious to reassure
herself upon a point that had made the last two years a bitterness to her.

"Oh, yes, I did. I twigged that long ago," replied he. "That is why I cut my stick so suddenly.
I couldn't support a wife then, and I wasn't goin' to be thought a fortune-hunter, you know."
It must have been that he was forgiven the sentimental blunder that is worse than a crime,--a
want of frankness,--or how else could they have been married in six weeks and sailed for England?
Mr. Alfred Brown, being in California, did not witness this ceremony, but Mr. Ketchum did,
and "a large and fashionable company of the élite of Kalsing" (vide the local paper). And did
not Mr. Ketchum give the groom a pair of trotting-horses that afterward attracted much attention
in Hyde Park? and did not Mr. Brown present the bride with a considerable fortune on her wedding-day,
which her husband insisted should be set apart for her exclusive use and control?

"Haven't you got any other name than Bijou?" he said to her. "That is a most absurd name. Bijou
Ramsay. What will my people say?"

"I was baptized Ellen," said she, "but I have never been called that."

"Ellen? A nice, sensible name. I shall call you that," he replied, and kept his word.

And so the immigrant, who thought he had left England forever, went home in a little while
and is living there now in inglorious ease and somewhat enervating luxury, while Mr. Heathcote,
who thought that he was coming out for a short visit and couldn't possibly live out of England,
is already more than half an American, a successful, practical farmer, and, it may be added,
a happy man. "Heart's Content" has been renaissanced, papered, tiled, portièred, utterly transformed,
and is thought quite a show-place now and much admired; but there are some persons who liked
it better when it was only an old-fashioned Virginian home, before their mahogany majesties
the old furniture, and those courtly commoners Anne Buller and her brothers, had been swept
away with all the other cumbering antiquities.

Sir Robert is now looking into the military, monastic, and baronial architecture of the mediæval
period on the Continent, and goes next year to Japan to begin the exhaustive researches which
are to culminate in his next book, the "Lives of the Mikados."

    F. C. BAYLOR.

[THE END.]

THE TRUTH ABOUT DOGS.

I am about to do a very unpopular thing,--namely, to write realistically about the dog and
to protest mildly against the extravagant and sentimental way of writing about him which has
become so fashionable and which threatens to make him a veritable fetich. The intolerance of
his worshippers has already attained a height of dogmatism (the pun is hardly a conscious one)
which is truly theologic. I have been made aware, when expressing dissent or a low measure
of faith, of an ill-concealed scorn, such as curls the lip of a Boston liberal or lights the
eye of a "Hard-Shell" or a Covenanter when any one ventures to differ from him.

