THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, NO. 481.] SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELICS OF ARIOSTO.

We need not bespeak the reader's interest in these "trivial fond" relics--these consecrated
memorials--of one of the most celebrated poets of Italy. They are preserved with reverential
care at Ferrara, the poet's favourite residence, though not his birthplace. The Ferrarese,
however, claim him "exclusively as their own" Lord Byron, in the Notes[1] to Childe Harold,
canto 4, says, "the author of the Orlando is jealously claimed as the Homer, not of Italy,
but Ferrara. The mother of Ariosto was of Reggio, and the house in which he was born is carefully
distinguished by a tablet with these words:--'Qui nacque Ludovico Ariosto il giorno 8 di Settembre
dell' anno 1474.' But the Ferrarese make light of the accident by which their poet was born
abroad, and claim him exclusively for their own. They possess his bones, they show his ARM-CHAIR,
and his INKSTAND, and his autographs. The house where he lived, the room where he died, are
designated by his own replaced memorial, and by a recent inscription."

Ferrara, we should here mention, is a fortified town, and a day's journey, en voiturier, from
Florence to Vienna. The Tomb, as well as the above relics, a bronze Medallion of the great
Poet, and an account of his last illness and death--the two latter found in his tomb--are in
the public library at Ferrara. This library also contains the original MSS. of Tasso's Gerusalemme
Liberata, and Guarini's Pastor Fido; and in the Hospital of St. Anne, at Ferrara, travellers
are shown the cell where Tasso was confined.

The INKSTAND is of bronze, and its singular device is said to refer to the Poet's amorous caution.
In his Life,[2] we are told that "The amours of Ariosto are a difficult theme for both his
eulogists and his biographers. He has alluded in his Poems to several ladies with whose charms
he was captivated, but, with the exception of Alessandra and Genevra, the names under which
they are mentioned are fictitious. His caution in this respect is thought to have been hinted
at in the device placed on his favourite inkstand, and which consisted of a little Cupid having
his forefinger on his lip in token of secresy." The evidence in proof of Alessandra's being
his wife is little short of unanswerable.

Reverting to the early life of the Poet--he studied at Ferrara, but losing his tutor, who was
called from thence, and appointed preceptor to the son of Isabella of Naples, Ariosto was left
without the present means of gaining instruction in Greek. To this period Mr. Stebbing thus
alludes:--

"To the regret he experienced at losing his master, was added that of hearing soon after of
his decease; but scarcely had he recovered from the distress he felt at this circumstance,
when the death of his father put an end for some time to all his literary thoughts and pursuits.
He has pathetically described his situation at this period in his sixth Satire, which contains
several allusions both to the present and previous circumstances of his life.

  "'My father dies; thenceforth with care oppressed
  New thoughts and feelings fill my harass'd breast;
  Homer gives way to lawyers and their deeds,
  And all a brother's love within me pleads;
  Fit suitors found, two sisters soon are wed,
  And to the altar without portions led.
  With all the wants and wishes of their age
  My little brothers next my thoughts engage,
  And in their father's place I strive untired
  To do whate'er that father's love inspired.
  Thus watching how their several wills incline
  In courts, in study, or in arms to shine;
  No toil I shun their fair pursuits to aid,
  Still of the snares that strew their path afraid.
  Nor this alone--though press we quick to land,
  The bark's not safe till anchor'd on the strand.'"

Passing over the commencement of the Orlando Furioso, which soon followed the above melancholy
event--"To be the freer from interruptions, and at the same time render his moderate income
equal to his support, he left Ferrara, and took up his residence on an estate belonging to
his kinsman Malaguzzo, between Reggio and Rubiera. He has described this retreat, and the pleasant
manner in which he spent his time during his short residence there, in his fifth Satire; but
it is disputed whether the account alludes to this or an earlier period of his life:

  "'Time was when by sweet solitude inclines
  The storied page I fill'd with, ready mind;
  Those gentle scenes of Reggio's fair domain,
  Our own dear nest, where peace and nature reign;
  The lovely villa and the neighbouring Rhone,
  Whose banks the Naiads haunt serene and lone;
  The lucid pool whence small fresh streams distil
  That glad the garden round and turn the mill;
  Still memory loves upon these scenes to dwell,
  Still sees the vines with fruit delicious swell,
  Luxurious meadows blooming spread around,
  Low winding vales and hills with turrets crown'd.'

"The Duke Alphonso, seeing him left without a patron, and provided with so small an income,
invited him to return to Ferrara, which he did, and found no reason, it is said, to regret
that he had once more put himself under the protection of the house of Este. Alphonso, knowing
his love of retirement and the peculiarity of his habits, promised to leave him at perfect
liberty to pursue his studies and live in the way that most suited his wishes. He kept his
promise, and there is reason to believe that the presents he bestowed on the poet enabled him
to build the cottage in which he resided, with few interruptions, till his death. This favourite
house of Ariosto's was situated near the church of S. Benedetto, and stood in the midst of
a spacious garden which formed both his pride and delight. Here he continued to compose additional
cantos to the 'Orlando Furioso,' and occasionally, to relax his mind with lighter species of
poetry, sometimes writing a satire, and at others reverting to the comedies composed in his
younger years, and which he subsequently made fit for the stage."

He again quitted Ferrara, on an appointment "by Alphonso, but again soon returned:--

"On his return he established himself, with his two unmarried sisters, in the house he had
built near the church of Saint Benedict, and resumed his former occupations. Of his lighter
amusements, gardening was that in which he took most pleasure; and it is curious to know that
he was as fond of altering the plan of both his house and grounds, as he was of remodelling
the stanzas of the Orlando. His son, Virginio proposed writing an account of his illustrious
father's life; but unfortunately, he never pursued his design beyond the commencement, and
a few memorandums are all that have come down to us. From these, however, we learn the singular
fastidiousness of Ariosto in his horticultural amusements, and some other traits of his character,
which render him not the less an object of our veneration, by showing us the simplicity as
well as power of his mind. 'In gardening,' says Virginio, 'he pursued the same plan as with
his verses, never leaving any thing he had planted more than three months in the same place:
and, if he set a fruit-tree, or sowed seed of any kind, he would go so often to examine it,
and see if it were growing, that he generally ended with spoiling or breaking off the bud.'

"We learn, from the same interesting document, that he had at first no intention of building
a house for constant residence in this garden, but that, having raised a mere cottage for temporary
shelter, he grew so fond of the spot, that he wished never to leave it. The structure, after
all, was not fully suited to his taste, and he felt as great an inclination to improve it by
continual alterations as his garden. His constant lamentation was, that he could not change
the arrangement of his house as he could that of his verses: and a person having asked him
one day, how it happened that he who could describe castles and palaces so magnificently, had
built such a cottage, he replied, that he made his verses without the aid of money.

"In his favourite garden he passed many hours of the day, deriving new inspiration from its
green and refreshing solitudes. The Orlando was still in progress, and still under correction,
his confidence in himself, it seems, having been little increased either by years or practice.
In speaking, however, on this subject, he was accustomed to say, that poetry might be compared
to a laurel, which sprung up of itself, and which might be greatly improved by cultivation,
but would lose all its natural beauty if too much meddled with:--this is the case, he would
continue, with stanzas, which come into the mind, we know not how, and which may be improved
by the correction of a little original roughness, but are deprived of all their grace and freshness
by too nice a handling."--(Stebbing's Life.)

The life-time of Ariosto was shortened by the intensity with which he applied himself to the
production of his works. One of his last labours was a corrected and enlarged edition of his
splendid Orlando Furioso. The printing was, however, so badly executed, as to cause him to
say "he had been assassinated by his printer." Mr. Stebbing observes, "it is probable that
this circumstance, combined with the fatigue attending his close application while preparing
the edition for the press, had a serious effect on his health, which now began to exhibit signs
of rapid decline."[3] In the spring of 1533 he was seriously attacked with indigestion. The
constant application of medicine to remove this complaint brought on a consumption, and on
the night of June 6, in the same year, he breathed his last, "his death, it is worthy of mention,
having been preceded only a few hours by the total destruction of Alphonso's splendid theatre
by fire;" which theatre, it should be added, the poet had designed for his noble patron a few
years before: "so superb and convenient was the structure, when finished, that it was the admiration
of all Italy."

"Ferrara, all Italy, and even Europe, lamented Ariosto as the first poet of the age, and as
worthy of being enrolled in the same chart of fame with the greatest that had ever lived. His
funeral was rendered remarkable by the attendance of a large body of monks, who to honour his
memory, followed him, contrary to the rules of their order, to the grave. His son, Virginio,
shortly after built a small chapel in his garden, and formed a mausoleum to which he intended
to remove his remains, but the same monks prohibited it, and the body was left in the humble
tomb in which it was originally deposited, till the new church of S. Benedetto was built, when
Agostino Mosti, a gentleman of Ferrara, raised above it a monument more worthy of the poet.
In 1612 his great grandson, Ludovico, erected a still nobler one, and removed the ashes of
his ancestor from the tomb of Agostino, as the latter had done from the one in which they were
originally deposited. This monument of Ludovico, which still exists, is built of the most costly
marble, and adorned with two statues representing Glory and Poetry, together with an effigy
of the poet in alabaster."

Lord Byron illustrates a singular circumstance respecting the tomb of Ariosto. "Before the
remains were removed from the Benedictine Church to the Library of Ferrara, his bust, which
surmounted the tomb, was struck by lightning, and a crown of iron laurels melted away:--

    "'The lightning rent from Ariosto's bust
    The iron crown of laurels' mimic'd leaves;
    Nor was the ominous element unjust,
    For the true laurel-wreath which glory weaves
    Is of the tree no bolt of thunder cleaves,
    And the false semblance but disgraced his brow;
    Yet still, if fondly Superstition grieves,
    Know, that the lightning sanctifies below
  Whate'er it strikes;--yon head is doubly sacred now.'"[4]

The transfer of these sacred ashes on the 6th of June, 1801, was one of the most brilliant
spectacles of the short-lived Italian republic, and to consecrate the memory of the ceremony,
the once famous fallen Intrepidi were revived, and re-formed into the Ariostean academy. The
large public place through which the procession paraded, was then for the first time called
Ariosto Square.[5]

We must return to Mr. Stebbing's delightful Lives of the Italian Poets, which work has so frequently
aided us in the previous columns.

    [1] For these Lord B. acknowledges his obligation to his excellent
        friend J.C. Hobbouse, Esq. M.P.

    [2] In "Lives of the Italian Poets." By the Rev. Henry Stebbing,
        vol. ii.

    [3] Few persons will be disposed to question this extreme
        sensitiveness, since instances of similar effects on men of
        genius are by no means rare. Whoever has read Mr. Moore's Life
        of Byron must have remarked the asperity with which he
        inveighs against blundering printers in the Letters to Mr.
        Murray, his publisher.

    [4] "Childe Harold," canto 4, st. xli.

    [5] Notes to lines 1 and 2 of the preceding stanza.

       *       *       *       *       *

FANNY.

  Her place of rest is mantled o'er
    With dews of early morning;
  She heeds not now the winter's roar,
    Nor flowery spring's adorning.

  Alike to her, when summer's heat
    Glows on her verdant bed,
  Or when the snows of winter beat,
    And a fleecy covering shed.

  And rarely do they mention her,
    Who most her fate should mourn;
  And little did they weep for her,
    Who never can return.

  But back to memory let me bring
    Her laughing eyes of blue:
  She was, on earth, as fair a thing
    As fancy ever drew.

  She lov'd and was belovd again!'
    And quickly flew the winged hours;
  Love seem to wreath his fairy chain
    Of blooming amaranthine flow'rs.

  She deem'd not time could ever blight
    That whisper'd tale she lov'd to hear;
  Alas! there came a gloomy night,
    That threw its shadows on her bier.

  He told her time should never see
    The hour he would forget her--
  That future years should only be
    Fresh links to bind him to her;

  That distant lands his steps might trace,
    And lovely forms he'd see,
  But Fanny's dear, remembered face,
    His polar-star should be.

  "O! ever shall I be the same,
    Whatever may betide me,--
  Remembrance whispers Fanny's name,
    And brings her form beside me.

  "Believe, believe, when far away,
    Distance but closer draws the chain;
  When twilight veils the 'garish day,'
    Remembrance turns to thee again."

  He's gone!--but Fancy in her ear
    Still murmurs on his last farewell,
  While Hope dries in her eye the tear,
    And bids her on each promise dwell.

  And long she hop'd--from day to day,--
    From early morn to dusky eve
  Her thoughts were wand'ring far away,
    Nor deem'd that he could e'er deceive.

  Fond maid'--he thinks no more on thee--
    He mocks at thy enduring faith;
  While the foul tongue of calumny
    Accelerates thy early death.

  This world to her a desert grew,
    The sunny heavens no more were fair;
  Fast gathering tears obscured her view,
    And only night's dark clouds were there.

  Faded and chang'd the glorious dream,
    The vision bright that floated round her;
  And death was in the ghastly gleam
    That gave her eyes unearthly splendour.

  She lingered not, to feel that earth
    Is rife with Disappointment's thorn--
  That vows of faith are little worth,
    And fleeting as the hues of morn.

  Farewell! farewell! pale lilies drooping
    On her low bed as emblems wave;--
  And see!--the angel Pity stooping
    To shed her tear on Fanny's grave!

Kirton Lindsey.

ANNE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "HALCYON" BIRD.

(To the Editor.)

The Halcyon is now only known by the name of the King Fisher (ispida, the alcedo ispida of
Linnaeus), a very beautiful bird, frequenting waters, and feeding on fish. It builds in deep
holes in the banks of rivers, and lays five, or, according to some, nine eggs. It much approaches
to the Picus, or Woodpecker, in many points; but wants its great character, which is, the having
two toes behind. The legs of this bird are very short, and are black before and red behind;
its colours, particularly its green and blue, which are its general ones, are extremely bright
and beautiful. It takes its prey after the manner of the Osprey, balancing itself at a certain
distance over the water for a considerable space, and then darting below the surface, brings
up the prey in its feet. While it remains suspended in the air, on a bright day, the plumage
exhibits a most beautiful variety of very dazzling and brilliant colours.

This bird was called Halcyon by the ancients. Aristotle has described the bird and its nest;
which, according to him, resembled those concretions that are formed by the sea water, and
fashioned in the shape of a long necked gourd, hollow within, but so narrow at the entrance,
that if it overset the water could not enter. This nest was called Halcyoneum, and had medical
virtues ascribed to it: it was also a floating one; and therefore it was necessary for the
poets who have described it to place it on a tranquil sea, and to supply the bird with charms
to allay the fury of a turbulent element during its incubation, for it had at that season power
over the seas and winds. During the days of this bird's incubation, in the depth of winter,
the mariner might sail in full security; and therefore they were called "Halcyon Days."

Lambeth.

WALTER E.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

(From another Correspondent.)

In the agreeable communications of your correspondents, they seem in their quotations to have
overlooked the following, from Dryden:--

  "Secure as when the halcyon breeds, with these
  He that was born to drown might cross the seas."
  Astraea Redux.

And again, in his stanzas on the death of Oliver Cromwell--

  "And wars have that respect for his repose
  As winds for halcyons when they breed at sea."

Cowley likewise, in his preface to his Miscellanies, says, talking of his mind, "It must, like
the halcyon, have fair weather to breed in."

The story of Ceyx and Alcyone is beautifully told in Ovid, Met. 11. fab. 10.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOUSE OF COMMONS.

(For the Mirror.)

In the vale of Evesham, was fought the most memorable battle recorded in the annals of English
history, between Simon de Mountfort, the powerful Earl of Leicester, and Prince Edward, afterwards
King Edward the First; in which the earl was completely defeated, and the refractory barons,
with most of their adherents taken or slain. This important battle restored Henry the Third
to his throne and liberty. When he had ascended the throne, he determined to still further
curtail the enormous power of the barons; and by his writs summoned together, as his advisers,
representatives from numerous cities and boroughs, as well as counties; the battle of Evesham
therefore may be considered, says a modern writer, "as the origin of our present House of Commons."

The learned John Selden says, "All are involved in a parliament. There was a time when all
men had their voice in choosing knights. About Henry the Sixth's time they found the inconvenience,
so one parliament made a law, that only he that had forty shillings per annum should give his
voice, they under should be excluded." "In a word (says Chamberlayne) a parliament's authority
is most absolute; a parliament can do all that Senatus populusque Romanus could do, centuriatis
Comitis seu Tributis; it represents the whole kingdom, so that the consent of the parliament
is presumed to be the consent of every man in England."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LEGACY OF THE SWORD.

(For the Mirror.)

  It is thine--it shall win thee a wreath for thy brow
  When thy spirit seems more energetic than now;--
  It is thine in the war-cloud of gloom and of fire,
  The pride of thy kindred--the sword of thy sire!

  It is thine--let the bright rose around it entwine,--
  Let it glance in the sunbeam which smiles on the shrine,
  And sheathe it triumphant when cravens retire,
  The pride of thy household--the sword of thy sire!

  It is thine--but the warrior who bore it is laid
  Where the rose throws its balm, and the cypress its shade,
  And churls and marauders have ceased to retire
  From the star of the battle--the sword of thy sire!

  It is thine--thou shall wave it with banner and plume
  When the trumpet is heard in the war-cloud of gloom:
  It is thine to defend thee when rebels conspire,
  The choice of thy childhood--the sword of thy sire!

Deal.

G.R.C. OR, REGINALD AUGUSTINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAVROVITCH, THE POLE.

  "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
  Than are dreamt of in your philosophy."

It seems that Valodimir Mavrovitch, the fratricide, was the second son of Count Baileskow,
the representative of one of the oldest and most renowned families in Poland. In his youth,
Valodimir was the most elegant boy almost ever seen, and scarcely less remarkable for talent
than beauty; but he had a peculiar enthusiasm about him, in which, as his tutor, Father Theophilus,
often said, lay his destiny. "In all other respects, he is only," said the father, "a nobler
youth than common; but in this singular endowment he has something supernatural to man. He
is without fear--he knows not what it is; and, with a dexterity inconceivable, accomplishes
the most abstruse and difficult purposes. In his lessons, such is his aptitude, that he learns
as if he had brought knowledge with him into the world; and in field-sports, the chase, and
all exercises, he possesses an ardour and courage by which he outstrips every competitor. His
generosity is equally unbounded; and whatever he undertakes is pursued with an indefatigable
eagerness that knows not impediment; but amidst this unexampled energy in purpose there is
cause for fear. It matters not to him, when once interested, whether his object be good or
bad; and in this fatal inability to discriminate the value of his aims lies his danger."

(We are compelled considerably to abridge this story to suit our limits.--The mystical portion
of it, or "the story of the Demon," as the narrator, a Pole, calls it, is thus told to an English
tourist:)--

"When I was on the eve of my departure from the castle of Baileskow, my paternal inheritance,
and the residence of my mother, to make a tour through Germany and Italy, the carriage being
at the gate, and the servants with torches around--for it was then before the dawn of day--as
I crossed the court from the hall-door to embark, an old man met me. He had the air of a priest,
but not exactly the garb, and his eyes, I thought--or it might be an after fancy--were luminous.

"'Valodimir Mavrovitch,' said the stranger, 'THINK!'--I would have answered, but the torch-light
which shone through the gateway upon him shifted, and I was surprised that he too had disappeared,
like one of the shadows of the servants on the castle wall.

"I was surprised at the brief and emphatic admonition of the Demon, for it was no less; but
instead of obeying his injunction, after embarking in the carriage, I fell asleep.

"In the course of the journey, I met with neither accident nor adventure; but in the evening
of the afternoon that I reached Munich, I strolled out from, the hotel at which I had put up,
and entered, after a short walk, a coffee-house, in which several persons were smoking, with
ices and liquors before them. One table only was vacant--it was near the door, and it had no
light upon it. I entered and sat down at this table, and ordered a cigar; which being brought,
with a candle, I began to smoke, and was thinking on the admonition of the mysterious stranger
in the court of the castle. My back was towards the door, when presently feeling as it were
a hand laid on my shoulder, I hastily turned round, and at my elbow beheld the stranger again.
'BEWARE!' said he, and withdrew.

"This incident affected me more than the former: it seemed to be couched with anxiety, as if
some danger impended; but at the same moment two young officers came in, and seeing no vacant
places, seated themselves opposite to me at the same table. They were about my own age, of
a gallant air, and observing that I was a stranger, they addressed me in a generous, gentlemanly
manner. I was much pleased with their conversation, and they professed themselves equally so
with mine. Like other young men, we became, while I stayed at Munich, friends, and in their
agree, able society both the 'THINK!' and 'BEWARE!' were forgotten. On my departure for Vienna,
they gave me letters to their friends in that metropolis, by whom I was received with marked
distinction.

"I had not, however, been many days in Vienna, when one evening, returning from a party on
foot, my servant having neglected to bring my carriage, a sudden stream of light from a window
fell upon a figure which I perceived walking before me. He turned round at the same moment,
and I beheld my warden.--'STOP!' said the apparition; I did do so; but in a moment the light
vanished, and he was gone.

"This third warning took some effect: it was mystical, and I pondered in a vain endeavour to
ascertain to what it could allude. My conjectures were fruitless: I could only recall that
in the course of the evening I had been much excited by the beauty of a young countess, for
whom, on account of her marriage, the ball had been given. The count, her husband, was a noble
and elegant young man, and their mutual attachment had been a theme of admiration from their
childhood in their respective families.--'STOP!' I repeated to myself, as I entered my lodgings,
'what can that have to do with aught that I have undertaken?' But in the course of a few days
I became myself again, the admonisher was forgotten, and I could think only of the beautiful
countess. I have just told my confessor that in less than a month her husband shot himself,
and she fled from my arms to a nunnery.

"This affair obliged me to quit Vienna more abruptly than I intended; but instead of going
to Venice, I went to Paris, taking Frankfort in my way. Being entirely unknown at Frankfort,
I hastily visited alone every thing remarkable in the city, resolving to leave it in the morning;
but the day was sultry, and in the evening, partly owing to fatigue, I felt myself tired and
indisposed, and remained there next day. In the afternoon I found myself better; and as a public
pleasure-garden was near the hotel where I stopped, I went to amuse myself for a few minutes
there. Whether custom or any festival had that evening assembled an unusual concourse of people
I never inquired, but the garden was crowded with a gay multitude, and music with great hilarity
enlivened the entertainment. I walked about delighted with the scene.

"In the course of my sauntering amidst the arbours, I came to an alcove a little remote from
the more stirring cloud, and in it were several gentlemen playing cards: two were at chess,
and by their side a little boy, seemingly one of their sons, amusing himself with throwing
dice. After looking for a minute or two, I went to the child, and in sheer playfulness challenged
the boy for a throw. At the same instant that I took the box in my hand, some one touched my
elbow; I looked round, and the old man was there--'PAUSE!' said he. In that instant a rope-dancer
at some distance fell, a shriek rose, my attention was roused, and I missed again the stranger;
but when tranquillity was restored, my desire to play at dice returned, and I again challenged
the child to whom I lost several pieces of money, which the lucky boy was as proud of gaining
as the conqueror at the Battle of Prague.

"That was the first time I had ever played at dice. My education was recluse. I had no companions,
and we had no dice in the castle. The idle game pleased me. When I returned to the hotel, I
ordered dice, and amused myself all the evening with casting them, actuated by a persuasion
that there must be a mode of doing so by which any desired number may be thrown. This notion
took possession of my mind, and I stayed several days at Frankfort, employed in attempts to
make the discovery; at last I did succeed. With a pair of dice I attained a sleight by which
I could cast what I pleased; but with it I also made another discovery: it was only with perfect
cubes I could be so successful. I tried many, but all, in any degree imperfect, could not be
so commanded.

"I then went to Paris, where, being well introduced, I became a favourite. The ladies could
not make enough of me, and I felt no ennui to lead me to the gaming-tables. But one night,
on which I had an appointment with a fascinating favourite, when I went to her house I found
she had been seized with the small-pox. To shun reflection on the loathsome disease, I went
to a house which I knew was much frequented by some of my friends, and, as I expected, met
several. They invited me to play, and as I was ignorant of cards, they consented to throw dice,
because, not aware of my art with them, they supposed, seeing me out of spirits, that it would
rouse me. We played for trifling stakes, and to their indescribable astonishment, I won every
throw, and, doubling our stakes, at last, a large sum of money.

"Next day the lady died. My grief was such that I could not but look upon her. Her waiting
gentlewoman consented, and I was shown into the apartment where she lay, at the moment when
the attendants were preparing the body. Such a spectacle! I flew in anguish again to the gaming-house;
I diced again, as if a furor had possessed me; I staked largely, and won every thing. All the
guests and the plundered were amazed at my success, and collected in crowds around. The pressure
upon me was inconvenient. I turned to request the spectators would stand back. At my elbow
again stood the Demon, 'GO ON,' were his words. I was petrified, and he was away.

