We soon left behind the ominous cone of Vesuvius, reported by the best judges to be at present
in so unsound a state that nothing can prevent its early fall; sunset left us near the grand
precipices of Anacapri, and morning found us with Ustica on our beam, and the semicircle of
mountains which enchase the gem of Palermo gradually unfolding their beauties. By ten, A.M.,
we were in harbor and pulling shorewards to subject ourselves to the scrutiny of custom-house
and police. Our passports duly conned over, the functionary, with a sour glance at our valanced
faces, inquired if we had letters for any one in the island. Never before had such a question
been asked me, nor ever before could I have given other than an humble negative. But the kindness
of a friend had luckily provided me with a formidable shield, and a reply, given with well-assumed
ease, that I had letters from the English Ambassador for the Viceroy, smoothed the grim feature,
and released us from the dread tribunal. The custom-house gave no trouble, and we reëmbarked
to cross about half a mile of water which separated us from the city gate. Here, however, we
were destined to experience the influence of the sunny clime: our two stout boatmen persisted
in setting their sail, under the utterly false pretence that there was some wind blowing, and
fully half an hour elapsed ere we set foot ashore.

This gave me ample time to recall the different aspect of Palermo when first I saw it, in 1849.
I had accompanied the noble squadron, English and French, which carried to the Sicilian government
the ultimatum of the King of Naples. The scenes of that troubled time passed vividly before
me: the mutual salutes of the Admirals; the honors paid by each separately to the flag of Sicily,
that flag which we had come to strike,--for such we all knew must be the effect of our withdrawal.
I recollected the manly courtesy with which the Sicilians received us, their earnest assurances
that they did not confound our involuntary errand with our personal feelings; and how, when
a wild Greek mountaineer from the Piano de' Greci, unable to comprehend the intricacies of
politics, and stupidly imagining that those who were not for him were against him, had insulted
one of our officers, the bystanders had interposed so honorably and so swiftly that even the
hot blood of our fiery Cymrian had neither time nor excuse to rise to the boiling-point. I
recalled the scene in the Parliament House, when the replies to the King's message, which had
been sent by each chief town, were read by the Speaker: the grave indignation of some,--the
somewhat bombastic protestations of others,--the question put of submission or war,--the shout
of "Guerra! guerra!" ringing too loud, methought, to be good metal; the "Suoni la tromba" at
that night's theatre,--the digging at the fortifications,--women carrying huge stones,--men
more willing to shout for them than to do their own share,--Capuchin friars digging with the
best,--finally, the wild dance of men, women, cowled and bearded monks, all together, brandishing
their spades and shovels in cadence to the military band. With this came to me the mild smile
and doubtful shake of the head of the good Admiral Baudin, and his prophetic remark,--"I have
seen much fighting in various parts of the world; and if these men mean to fight, I cannot
comprehend them."

While this mental diorama was unrolling, even Sicilian laziness had time to reach the shore;
and passing by a rough mass of rocks, where our second cutter had once run too close for comfort,
and the Friedland's launch had upset and lost two men, we at length landed close to the city
gate. A custom-house officer pounced on us for a fee, notwithstanding our examination on first
landing, and ("uno avulso, non deficit aureus alter,") at the city gate, not thirty yards distant,
a third repeated the demand, equivalent to "Your money or your keys." A capital breakfast at
the Trinacria hotel was the fitting conclusion to these oft-recorded troubles, and the gratifying
news that the Viceroy had just left the island for Naples obviated the necessity of a formal
visit, and left us free to enjoy the notabilities of Palermo.

The plan of this beautiful city is very simple, being a tolerably accurate square, surrounded
by walls, of which the northern face skirts the sea, and the southern faces the head of the
lovely valley in which the city stands,--the Golden Shell. Two perfectly straight streets,
intersecting in a small, but highly ornamented piazza, traverse the city. The Toledo, or Via
Cassaro,--for it bears both these designations,--runs from the sea to the Monreale gate, close
to which is the Royal Palace, and the Cathedral square opens from this street. The Via Macqueda
contains few buildings of interest except the University. Between the wall and the sea runs
the magnificent Marina, a more beautiful promenade than even the Villa Reale of Naples, having
on the right the low but picturesque headland of Bagaria, while on the left rise the all but
perpendicular rocks of Monte Pellegrino, once the impregnable mountain-throne of Hamilcar Barcas,
and later the spot where in a rude cavern, now sheeted with marble and jasper, "from all the
youth of Sicily, Saint Rosalie retired to God." The handicraftsmen of Palermo still occupy
almost exclusively the streets named after their trades,--an indication of immobility rarely
to be met with nowadays, though Rome displays it in a minor degree.

We first visited the University Museum. Numerous pictures, far beyond the ordinary degree of
badness, occupy the upper rooms, where the only object of interest is a very fine and well-preserved
bronze of Hercules and the Pompeian Fawn, half life-size. But far beyond all else in artistic
importance are the metopes from Selinuntium, which, though much damaged, show marks of high
excellence. They are of clearly different dates, though all very archaic. The oldest represent
Perseus cutting off the Gorgon's head, and Hercules killing two thieves. Perseus has the calm,
sleepy look of a Hindoo god,--while Gorgon's head, with goggle eyes and protruding tongue,
resembles a Mexican idol. Hercules and the thieves have more of an Egyptian character. The
material of these bas-reliefs is coarse limestone; and in the metopes on the opposite wall,
which are clearly of later date, recourse has been had to a curious method of obtaining delicacy
in the female forms: the faces, hands, and feet, which alone are visible from among the drapery,
are formed of fine marble. An Actæon torn by his dogs is much corroded by sea air, but displays
great nobleness of attitude. The vigor in the left arm, which has throttled one of the dogs,
can hardly be surpassed. A portion of the cella, of one of the temples has been removed hither,
and its brilliant polychromy is sufficient to decide the argument as to the existence of the
practice, if, indeed, that point be yet in doubt. But it seems that the non-colorists have
relinquished the parallel of architecture, which, be it observed, they formerly defended obstinately,
and have now intrenched themselves in the citadel of sculpture, intending to hold it against
all evidence. The only other object of much interest was a Pompeian fresco, representing two
actors, whose attitudes and masks are so strikingly adapted to express the first scene of the
"Heautontimorumenos," between Menalcas and Chremes, that it seems scarcely doubtful that this
is actually the subject of the painting.

Near the upper end of the Toledo the Cathedral is situated, not very favorably for effect,
as only the eastern side is sufficiently free from buildings. It is a noble pile: Northern
power and piety expressed by the agency of Southern and Arabic workmen, and somewhat affected
by the nationality of the artificer.

The stones are fretted and carved more elaborately than those of any French or English cathedral,
but entirely in arabesques and diapering of low relief, so that the spectator misses with regret
the solemn rows of saints and patriarchs that enrich the portals of our Gothic minsters. These,
however, are reflections of a subsequent date, and did not interfere to mar the pleasure with
which we sat in front of the southern door, beneath the two lofty arches, which, springing
from the entrance tower, span the street high above our heads. For some time we sat, unwilling
to change and it might be impair our sensations by passing inwards. Our reluctance was but
too well founded: the whole interior has been modernized in detestable Renaissance style, and
in place of highest honor, above the central doorway, sits in tight-buttoned uniform a fitting
idol for so ugly a shrine, the double-chinned effigy of the reigning monarch. We turned for
comfort to a chapel on the right, where in four sarcophagi of porphyry are deposited the remains
of the Northern sovereigns. The bones of Roger repose in a plain oblong chest with a steep
ridged roof, and the other three coffins, though somewhat more elaborate, are yet simple and
massive, as befits their destined use. The inscription, on that of Constantia is touching,
as it tells that she was "the last of the great race of Northmen,"--the good old bad Latin
"Northmannorum" giving the proper title, which we have injudiciously softened into Norman.

In a small piazza near the intersection of the main streets is a Dominican church, whose black
and white inlaid marbles are amazing in their elaborateness, astounding in their preposterously
bad taste. They transcend description, and can be faintly imagined only by such as know a huge
marble nightmare of waves and clouds in the south aisle of Westminster Abbey. This church contains
one good painting of a triumphant experiment conducted by some Dominican friars in the presence
of sundry Ulemas and Muftis: a Koran and Bible have been thrown into a blazing fire, and the
result is as satisfactory as that of Hercules's death-grapple with the Nemean lion. To be sure,
lions and Turks are not painters. The Martorana church is rich in gold-grounded mosaics, resembling
Saint Mark's at Venice. One represents the coronation of Roger Guiscard by the Saviour: very
curious, as showing at how early a date the invaders laid claim to the Right Divine. The inscription
is also noteworthy: Rogerius Rex, in the Latin tongue, but the Greek characters, thus: [Greek:
ROGERIOS RAEX].[a] The Renaissance has invaded this church too, and flowery inlaid marbles
with gilded scroll balconies (it is a nuns' church) mingle with the bold discs and oblong panels
of porphyry and green serpentine. In the nave of the small church sat in comfortable arm-chairs
two monks, one black, one white, leaning their ears to gilded grates and receiving the confessions
of the sisterhood. The paschal candlestick stood in front of the high altar,--Ascension-Day
not being past; but here, as in other Sicilian churches, it assumes the form of a seven-branched
tree, generally of bronze bedecked with gold. These same nuns' balconies are not confined to
the interior of churches, but form a distinct and picturesque feature in the long line of the
Toledo. Projecting in a bold curve whose undersurface is gaily painted in arabesque, their
thick bars and narrow openings nevertheless leave a gloomy impression on the mind, while they
add to the Oriental character of the city. A somewhat unsuccessful effort to identify the church
whose bell gave signal for the Sicilian Vespers closed our day's labor. The spot is clearly
defined and easily recognizable, and a small church, now shut up, occupies the site. So far,
so good; but the cloister which is distinctly mentioned cannot now be found, nor is it easy
to perceive where it could have stood. Perhaps some change in the neighboring harbor may have
swept it away.

[Footnote a: The e in Rex is here rendered by the Greek eta,--a proof that the pronunciation
of that letter was similar to that of our long a, and not like our double ee; although the
modern Greeks support the latter pronunciation.]

23d April. To those who take interest in the efforts of that age when Christianity, devoid
at once of artistic knowledge and of mechanical, strove from among the material and moral wreck
of Paganism to create for herself a school of Art which should, despite of all short-comings,
be the exponent of those high feelings which inspired her mind, the Royal Chapel of Palermo
offers a delightful object of study. Less massive than the gloomily grand basilicas of Rome
and Ravenna, surpassed in single features by other churches, as, for instance, the Cathedral
of Salerno, it contains, nevertheless, such perfect specimens of Christian Art in its various
phases, that this one small building seems a hand-book in itself. The floor and walls are covered
with excellently preserved and highly polished Alexandrine mosaic, flowing in varied convolutions
of green and gold and red round the broad crimson and gray shields, whose circular forms recall
the mighty monolith columns of porphyry and granite which yielded such noble spoils. The honey-combed
pendentines of the ceiling must be due to Arab workmen; their like may yet be found in Cairo
or the Alhambra; while below the narrow windows, and extending downwards to the marble panelling,
runs a grand series of gold-grounded mosaics, their subjects taken from the Old and New Testaments.
But far older than even these are the colossal grim circles of saints and apostles who cling
to the roof of the choir, and yield in size only to the awful figures of the Saviour, the Virgin,
and Saint Paul, enthroned in the apsides of the nave and aisles. The ambones, though not so
large as those of Salerno, are very gorgeous; and the paschal candlestick, here at all events
in its usual shape, is of deeply-carved marble, and displays an incongruous assemblage of youths,
maidens, beasts, birds, and bishops, hanging each from other like a curtain of swarming bees.

Service, which had been going on in the choir when we arrived, had now ceased; but from the
crypt below arose a chant so harsh, vibratory, and void of solemnity, that we were irresistibly
reminded of the subterranean chorus of demons in "Robert le Diable." Two of us ventured below
and discovered the chapter, all robed in purple, sitting round a pall with a presumable coffin
underneath. Little of reverence did they show,--it is true, the death was not recent, the service
being merely commemorative, as we afterwards learned,--and as the procession shortly afterwards
emerged and proceeded down the chapel, the unwashed, unshaven, and sensual countenances of
some of highest rank among them gave small reason to believe that they could feel much reverence
on any subject whatever.

The Palace itself is as tedious as any other palace: the Pompeian room follows the Louis Quinze,
and is in turn followed by the Chinese, till, for our comfort, we emerged into one large square
hall, whose stiff mosaics of archers killing stags, peacocks feeding at the foot of willow-pattern
trees, date from the time of Roger. Another wearisome series of rooms succeeded, which we were
bound to traverse in search of a bronze ram of old Greek workmanship, brought from Syracuse.
The work is very good and well-preserved; in fact, no part is injured, save the tail and a
hind leg, whose loss the custode ascribed to the villains of the late revolution. He even charged
them with the destruction of another similar statue melted into bullets, if we may believe
his incredible tale. A pavilion over the Monreale gate commands a view right down the Toledo
to the sea.

The drive to Monreale is a continued ascent along the skirts of a limestone rock, whose precipices
are thickly planted at every foothold with olive, Indian fig, and aloe. The valley, as it spread
below our gaze, appeared one huge carpet of heavy-fruited orange-trees, save where at times
a rent in the web left visible the bluish blades of wheat, or the intense green of a flax-plantation.

Monreale is a mere country-town, containing no object of interest, save the Cathedral. This
is a noble basilica, grandly proportioned, the nave and aisles of which are separated by monolith
pillars, mostly of gray granite, and some few of cipollino and other marbles, the spoils, no
doubt, of the ancient Panormus. Above the cornice the walls are entirely sheeted with golden
mosaics, representing, as usual, Scripture history. The series which begins, like the speech
of the Intendant in "Les Plaideurs," "Avant la creation du monde" complies with the wish of
(the judge?) by going on to the Deluge, in a train of singularly meagre figures, most haggard
of whom is Cain, here represented (as in the Campo Santo of Pisa) receiving his death accidentally
from the hand of Lamech. In the passage of the beasts to the Ark, Noah coaxes the lion on board,
and in the next compartment the patriarch shoves the king of beasts down the plank in a most
ludicrous fashion. The mosaics of the New Testament are less archaic, though still very old,
too old to be infected by the tricks of later Romanism,--such, for instance, as introducing
the Virgin among the receivers of the mysterious gift of tongues. Saint Paul, both here and
at the Royal Chapel, appears under the earlier type adopted whether by fancy or tradition to
represent that saint,--that is, a short, strong figure, with the head large, and almost devoid
of hair, except at the sides, and one dark lock in the centre of the massive forehead. Over
the western door-way is a mosaic of the Virgin with the following leonine and loyal distich
beneath it:--

  "Sponsa suae prolis, O Stella puerpera Solis,
  Pro cunctis ora, sed plus pro rege labora!"

There is an ample square cloister, with twenty-seven pairs of columns on each side, once richly
decorated in mosaics like those of San Giovanni Laterano and San Paolo at Rome, but even more
dilapidated than either of these latter. Indeed, so entirely non-existent is the mosaic, the
twisted and channelled columns showing nothing but places "where the pasty is not," that the
more probable solution may be that want of funds or of devotion has left the work unfinished.
On the capital of one column may be seen the figure of William the Good, who founded the Cathedral
in 1170. He bears in his arms a model of the building, which here appears with circular-headed
windows instead of the lanceolated Gothic now existing.

In, perhaps, the very loveliest of the many lovely sites around Palermo stands the small Moorish
building of La Ziza. Moorish it may be called; for the main feature of the edifice, a hall
with a fountain trickling along a channel in the pavements, is clearly due to the Saracens.
These, however, had availed themselves of Roman columns to support their fretted ceilings,
once gorgeous in color, but now desecrated with whitewash. The Norman invaders have added their
never-failing gold mosaic,--while the Spaniard, after painting sundry scenes from Ovid's "Metamorphoses"
in a dreadfully barocco style, calls upon the world, in those magniloquent phrases which somehow
belong as of right to your mighty Don, to admire the exquisite commingling of modern art with
antique beauty, to which his fiat has given birth.

Somewhat of Spain, perhaps, might also be traced in an incident, promisingly romantic, but
coming to a most lame and impotent conclusion, which occurred this afternoon to one of our
party. While busily sketching, in the Martorana church, the previously mentioned mosaic of
Roger's coronation, a hand protruded from the gilded lattice above, and a small scroll was
dropped, not precisely at the feet, but in the neighborhood of the amazed artist. Sharp eyes,
however, must be at work; for, ere he could appropriate this mysterious waif on Love's manor,
a side-door opened, and an attendant in the very unpoetical garb of a carpenter bore off the
prize. It maybe presumed that the next confessor who occupied an arm-chair in the church would
have somewhat of novelty to enliven what some priests have stated to be the most wearisome
of the work, namely, the hearing of confessions in a nunnery.

This evening was passed in the house of the British Consul, who, in amusing recognition of
our nationalities, comprising, as they did, both branches of the Anglo-Saxon race, treated
us to Lemann's captain's-biscuit and Boston crackers. Notwithstanding the interesting conversation
of our host, who had not allowed a residence of many years in a mind-rusting city to impair
his love of literature, a love dating from the time when Praed edited the "Etonian," and Metius
Tarpa contributed to the "College Magazine," we were obliged to leave early. Our arrangements
for a very early start next morning were completed, and a thirty miles' ride lay before us.

To save further allusion to them, it may be as well to describe these arrangements, which were
made for us by Signor Ragusa, landlord of the Trinacria hotel. A guide, Giuseppe Agnello by
name, took upon himself the whole responsibility of our board, lodging, and travelling, at
a fixed rate of forty-two (?) carlini a head,--which sum, including his buonamano and return
voyage from Syracuse or Messina, amounted to about twenty francs each per diem. For this sum
he furnished us with good mules, a hearty breakfast at daybreak, cold meat and hard eggs at
noon, and a plentiful dinner or supper, call it which you choose, on arriving at our night's
quarters. Agnello himself was cook, and proved a very tolerable one. This is essential; for
Spanish custom prevails in the inns, whose host considers his duty accomplished when he has
provided ample stabling for the mules and dubious bedding for his biped guests.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY. Possibly their pupils might open wide enough in the dark hole of the
rock to let the glare of the back part of the eye show, as we often see it in cats and other
animals.

I suppose you may remember the statements of old authors about lycanthropy, the disease in
which men took on the nature and aspect of wolves.

ANNO DOMINI, 1860.

  My youth is past!--this morn I stand,
  With manhood's signet of command,
  Firm-planted on life's middle-land!

  Behind, the scene recedes afar,
  Where cloudy mists and vapors mar
  The lustre of my morning-star.

  I mark the courses of my days,
  Inwound through many a doubtful maze,--
  To marvel at those devious ways!

  They lead through hills and levels lone,
  Green fields, and woodlands overgrown,
  And where deep waters pulse and moan;--

  By ruined tower, by darksome dell,
  The home of night-birds fierce and fell,
  Wherein strange shapes of Horror dwell;--

  Out to the blessed sunshine free,
  The breezy moors of liberty,
  And skies outpouring harmony;--

  By palace-wall, by haunted tomb,
  Through bright and dark, through joy and gloom:
  My life hath known both blight and bloom.

  And now, as from some mountain-height,
  Backward I strain my eager sight,
  Till all the landscape melts in night;--

  Then, whispering to my Heart, "Be bold!"
  I turn from years whose "tale is told,"
  To greet the Future's dawn of gold:

  High hopes and nobler labors wait
  Beyond that Future's opening gate,--
  Brave deeds which hold the seeds of Fate.

  Thy strength, O Lord, shall fire my blood,
  Shall nerve my soul, make wise my mood,
  And win me to the pure and good!

  Or if, O Father, thou shouldst say,
  "Dark Angel, close his mortal day!"
  And smite me on my vanward way,--

  Grant that in armor firm and strong,
  Whilst pealing still Life's battle-song,
  And struggling, manful, 'gainst the wrong,

  Thy soldier, who would fight to win
  No crown of dross, no bays of sin,
  May fall amidst the foremost din

  Of Truth's grand conflict, blest by Thee,--
  And even though Death should conquer, see
  How false, how brief his victory!

       *       *       *       *       *

DARWIN ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES.

[Footnote a: P. 484, Engl. ed.

[Footnote a: In Comptes Rendus, Acad. des Sciences, Févr.

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Modern Painters. By J. RUSKIN. Vol. V. Smith, Elder, & Co. London.

The completion of a work of the importance of the "Modern Painters," which has occupied in
its production the thought and a large portion of the labor of fourteen years, is an event
of more interest than it often falls to the lot of a book to excite; but when, as in this case,
the result shows the development of an individual taste and critical ability entirely without
peer in the history of art-letters, the value of the whole work is immensely enhanced by the
time which its publication covers.

The first volume of "Modern Painters" was, as everybody will remember, one of the sensation-books
of the time, and fell upon the public opinion of the day like a thunderbolt from the clear
sky. Denying, and in many instances overthrowing, the received canons of criticism, and defying
all the accepted authorities in it, the author excited the liveliest astonishment and the bitterest
hostility of the professional critics in general, and at once divided the world of art, so
far as his influence reached, into two parts: the one embracing most of the reverent and conservative
minds, and by far the larger; the other, most of the enthusiastic, the radical, and earnest;
but this, small in numbers at first, was increased, and still increases, by the force of those
qualities of enthusiasm and earnestness, until now, in England, it embraces nearly all of the
true and living art of our time. But that volume, professedly treating art with reference to
its superficial attributes and for a special purpose, the redemption of a great and revered
artist from unjust disparagement and undeserved neglect, touched in scarcely the least degree
the vital questions of taste or art-production. It had no considerations of sentiment or discussion
of principles to offer: it dealt with facts, and touched the simple truths of Nature with an
enthusiastic fire and lucidness which were proof positive of the knowledge and feeling of the
author; and the public, either conversant with those facts or capable of being satisfied of
them without much thought, abandoned itself to the fascination of his eloquence and acquiesced
in his teachings, or arrayed itself in utter hostility to him and his new ideas.

The second volume was more abstruse and deeper in feeling, and comparatively few of Mr. Ruskin's
followers through the first cared to get entangled in the metaphysical mazes of the second,
and it is generally neglected, although containing some of the deepest and most satisfactory
studies on the fundamental principles of art and taste which have ever been printed.

The third and fourth volumes, coming up again nearer the surface, made an application of the
principles investigated to the material for art which Nature furnishes; and here again the
author found in part his audience diminished among those who had at first been carried away
by his enthusiasm or silenced and convinced by his unhesitating dogmatism. A partial reaction
took place, owing not only to the change in the tone of the "Modern Painters," but to the springing
up of a new school of painting, the consequence, mainly and legitimately, of the teachings
of the work,--the pre-Raphaelite,--which, at once attacked virulently and immeasurably by the
old school of critics, and defended as earnestly by Mr. Ruskin, became the subject of the war
which was still waged between him and them. Turner in the meanwhile had passed away and was
admitted to apotheosis, the malignant critics of yesterday becoming the ignorant adulators
of to-day: his position was conceded, but the hostility to Ruskin was sustained with unabated
bitterness on the new field. He was demolished anew, and proved, many useless times over and
over, an ignorant pretender; the public in the meanwhile, even his opponents, taking up in
turn his protégés, as he pointed them out to their notice. The effect of his criticisms in
enhancing the value of the works they approved would be incredible, if one did not know how
glad an English public is to be led. As a single instance,--a drawing which was sold from one
of the water-color exhibitions at fifty guineas, sold again, after Ruskin's notice, at two
hundred and fifty; and in the lists of pictures sold or to be sold at auction, one sees constantly,
"Noticed by Mr. Ruskin," "Approved by Mr. Ruskin," appended to the title.

The third volume, being devoted to the correction of the ideas of Style and the Ideal, to Finish,
and a review of the Past Landscape-Painting, recurs to Turner in its closing chapter, "On his
Teachers"; the fourth was given to Mountain Beauty, following the parallel of the first, which
treated of the Truth of Mountains, and bearing as its burden of moral the expression of that
Ideal by Turner; and the fifth now comes to conclude the investigations on the Ideal by chapters:
first, on "Leaf Beauty," an exceedingly interesting investigation of the development of the
forms of trees and plants as concerned with the laws of beauty; second, "Cloud Beauty"; and
then of the "Ideas of Relation," in which the author comes finally to the demonstration of
the right of Turner to his position amongst the thinking and poetic painters.

From the first division, "Leaf Beauty," we must make one extract. The author has been speaking
of the, influence of the Pine on Swiss character.

"I have seen that it is possible for the stranger to pass through this great chapel, with its
font of waters, and mountain pillars, and vaults of cloud, without being touched by one noble
thought or stirred by any sacred passion; but for those who received from its waves the baptism
of their youth, and learned beneath its rocks the fidelity of their manhood, and watched amidst
its clouds the likeness of the dream of life, with the eyes of age,--for these I will not believe
that the mountain-shrine was built or the calm of its forest-shadows guarded by their God in vain."

