DARWINISM

    AN EXPOSITION OF THE

    THEORY OF NATURAL SELECTION

    WITH SOME OF ITS APPLICATIONS

    BY

    ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE

    LL.D., F.L.S., ETC.

    WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR, MAP AND ILLUSTRATIONS

    MACMILLAN AND CO.
    LONDON AND NEW YORK
    [Second Edition] 1889

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION

The present edition is a reprint of the first, with a few verbal corrections and the alteration
of some erroneous or doubtful statements. Of these latter the following are the most important:--

P. 30. The statement as to the fulmar petrel, which Professor A. Newton assures me is erroneous,
has been modified.

P. 34. A note is added as to Darwin's statement about the missel and song-thrushes in Scotland.

P. 172. An error as to the differently-coloured herds of cattle in the Falkland Islands, is
corrected.

    PARKSTONE, DORSET
    August, 1889.

PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION

The present work treats the problem of the Origin of Species on the same general lines as were
adopted by Darwin; but from the standpoint reached after nearly thirty years of discussion,
with an abundance of new facts and the advocacy of many new or old theories.

While not attempting to deal, even in outline, with the vast subject of evolution in general,
an endeavour has been made to give such an account of the theory of Natural Selection as may
enable any intelligent reader to obtain a clear conception of Darwin's work, and to understand
something of the power and range of his great principle.

Darwin wrote for a generation which had not accepted evolution, and which poured contempt on
those who upheld the derivation of species from species by any natural law of descent. He did
his work so well that "descent with modification" is now universally accepted as the order
of nature in the organic world; and the rising generation of naturalists can hardly realise
the novelty of this idea, or that their fathers considered it a scientific heresy to be condemned
rather than seriously discussed.

The objections now made to Darwin's theory apply, solely, to the particular means by which
the change of species has been brought about, not to the fact of that change. The objectors
seek to minimise the agency of natural selection and to subordinate it to laws of variation,
of use and disuse, of intelligence, and of heredity. These views and objections are urged with
much force and more confidence, and for the most part by the modern school of laboratory naturalists,
to whom the peculiarities and distinctions of species, as such, their distribution and their
affinities, have little interest as compared with the problems of histology and embryology,
of physiology and morphology. Their work in these departments is of the greatest interest and
of the highest importance, but it is not the kind of work which, by itself, enables one to
form a sound judgment on the questions involved in the action of the law of natural selection.
These rest mainly on the external and vital relations of species to species in a state of nature--on
what has been well termed by Semper the "physiology of organisms," rather than on the anatomy
or physiology of organs.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has always been considered a weakness in Darwin's work that he based his theory, primarily,
on the evidence of variation in domesticated animals and cultivated plants. I have endeavoured
to secure a firm foundation for the theory in the variations of organisms in a state of nature;
and as the exact amount and precise character of these variations is of paramount importance
in the numerous problems that arise when we apply the theory to explain the facts of nature,
I have endeavoured, by means of a series of diagrams, to exhibit to the eye the actual variations
as they are found to exist in a sufficient number of species. By doing this, not only does
the reader obtain a better and more precise idea of variation than can be given by any number
of tabular statements or cases of extreme individual variation, but we obtain a basis of fact
by which to test the statements and objections usually put forth on the subject of specific
variability; and it will be found that, throughout the work, I have frequently to appeal to
these diagrams and the facts they illustrate, just as Darwin was accustomed to appeal to the
facts of variation among dogs and pigeons.

I have also made what appears to me an important change in the arrangement of the subject.
Instead of treating first the comparatively difficult and unfamiliar details of variation,
I commence with the Struggle for Existence, which is really the fundamental phenomenon on which
natural selection depends, while the particular facts which illustrate it are comparatively
familiar and very interesting. It has the further advantage that, after discussing variation
and the effects of artificial selection, we proceed at once to explain how natural selection acts.

Among the subjects of novelty or interest discussed in this volume, and which have important
bearings on the theory of natural selection, are: (1) A proof that all specific characters
are (or once have been) either useful in themselves or correlated with useful characters (Chap.
VI); (2) a proof that natural selection can, in certain cases, increase the sterility of crosses
(Chap. VII); (3) a fuller discussion of the colour relations of animals, with additional facts
and arguments on the origin of sexual differences of colour (Chaps. VIII-X); (4) an attempted
solution of the difficulty presented by the occurrence of both very simple and very complex
modes of securing the cross-fertilisation of plants (Chap. XI); (5) some fresh facts and arguments
on the wind-carriage of seeds, and its bearing on the wide dispersal of many arctic and alpine
plants (Chap. XII); (6) some new illustrations of the non-heredity of acquired characters,
and a proof that the effects of use and disuse, even if inherited, must be overpowered by natural
selection (Chap. XIV); and (7) a new argument as to the nature and origin of the moral and
intellectual faculties of man (Chap. XV).

       *       *       *       *       *

Although I maintain, and even enforce, my differences from some of Darwin's views, my whole
work tends forcibly to illustrate the overwhelming importance of Natural Selection over all
other agencies in the production of new species. I thus take up Darwin's earlier position,
from which he somewhat receded in the later editions of his works, on account of criticisms
and objections which I have endeavoured to show are unsound. Even in rejecting that phase of
sexual selection depending on female choice, I insist on the greater efficacy of natural selection.
This is pre-eminently the Darwinian doctrine, and I therefore claim for my book the position
of being the advocate of pure Darwinism.

I wish to express my obligation to Mr. Francis Darwin for lending me some of his father's unused
notes, and to many other friends for facts or information, which have, I believe, been acknowledged
either in the text or footnotes. Mr. James Sime has kindly read over the proofs and given me
many useful suggestions; and I have to thank Professor Meldola, Mr. Hemsley, and Mr. E.B. Poulton
for valuable notes or corrections in the later chapters in which their special subjects are
touched upon.

GODALMING, March 1889.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

WHAT ARE "SPECIES" AND WHAT IS MEANT BY THEIR "ORIGIN"

    Definition of species--Special creation--The early
    transmutationists--Scientific opinion before Darwin--The problem
    before Darwin--The change of opinion effected by Darwin--The
    Darwinian theory--Proposed mode of treatment of the subject

CHAPTER II

THE STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE

    Its importance--The struggle among plants--Among
    animals--Illustrative cases--Succession of trees in forests of
    Denmark--The struggle for existence on the Pampas--Increase of
    organisms in a geometrical ratio--Examples of rapid increase of
    animals--Rapid increase and wide spread of plants--Great
    fertility not essential to rapid increase--Struggle between
    closely allied species most severe--The ethical aspect of the
    struggle for existence

CHAPTER III

THE VARIABILITY OF SPECIES IN A STATE OF NATURE

   Importance of variability--Popular ideas regarding
   it--Variability of the lower animals--The variability of
   insects--Variation among lizards--Variation among
   birds--Diagrams of bird-variation--Number of varying
   individuals--Variation in the mammalia--Variation in internal
   organs--Variations in the skull--Variations in the habits of
   animals--The variability of plants--Species which vary
   little--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER IV

VARIATION OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS AND CULTIVATED PLANTS

    The facts of variation and artificial selection--Proofs of the
    generality of variation--Variations of apples and
    melons--Variations of flowers--Variations of domestic
    animals--Domestic pigeons--Acclimatisation--Circumstances
    favourable to selection by man--Conditions favourable to
    variation--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER V

NATURAL SELECTION BY VARIATION AND SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST

    Effect of struggle for existence under unchanged conditions--The
    effect under change of conditions--Divergence of character--In
    insects--In birds--In mammalia--Divergence leads to a maximum of
    life in each area--Closely allied species inhabit distinct
    areas--Adaptation to conditions at various periods of life--The
    continued existence of low forms of life--Extinction of low
    types among the higher animals--Circumstances favourable to the
    origin of new species--Probable origin of the dippers--The
    importance of isolation--On the advance of organisation by
    natural selection--Summary of the first five chapters

CHAPTER VI

DIFFICULTIES AND OBJECTIONS

    Difficulty as to smallness of variations--As to the right
    variations occurring when required--The beginnings of important
    organs--The mammary glands--The eyes of flatfish--Origin of the
    eye--Useless or non-adaptive characters--Recent extension of the
    region of utility in plants--The same in animals--Uses of
    tails--Of the horns of deer--Of the scale-ornamentation of
    reptiles--Instability of non-adaptive characters--Delboeuf's
    law--No "specific" character proved to be useless--The swamping
    effects of intercrossing--Isolation as preventing
    intercrossing--Gulick on the effects of isolation--Cases in
    which isolation is ineffective

CHAPTER VII

ON THE INFERTILITY OF CROSSES BETWEEN DISTINCT SPECIES AND THE USUAL STERILITY OF THEIR HYBRID
OFFSPRING

    Statement of the problem--Extreme susceptibility of the
    reproductive functions--Reciprocal crosses--Individual
    differences in respect to cross-fertilisation--Dimorphism and
    trimorphism among plants--Cases of the fertility of hybrids and
    of the infertility of mongrels--The effects of close
    interbreeding--Mr. Huth's objections--Fertile hybrids among
    animals--Fertility of hybrids among plants--Cases of sterility
    of mongrels--Parallelism between crossing and change of
    conditions--Remarks on the facts of hybridity--Sterility due to
    changed conditions and usually correlated with other
    characters--Correlation of colour with constitutional
    peculiarities--The isolation of varieties by selective
    association--The influence of natural selection upon sterility
    and fertility--Physiological selection--Summary and concluding
    remarks

CHAPTER VIII

THE ORIGIN AND USES OF COLOUR IN ANIMALS

    The Darwinian theory threw new light on organic colour--The
    problem to be solved--The constancy of animal colour indicates
    utility--Colour and environment--Arctic animals
    white--Exceptions prove the rule--Desert, forest, nocturnal, and
    oceanic animals--General theories of animal colour--Variable
    protective colouring--Mr. Poulton's experiments--Special or
    local colour adaptations--Imitation of particular objects--How
    they have been produced--Special protective colouring of
    butterflies--Protective resemblance among marine
    animals--Protection by terrifying enemies--Alluring
    coloration--The coloration of birds' eggs--Colour as a means of
    recognition--Summary of the preceding exposition--Influence of
    locality or of climate on colour--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER IX

WARNING COLORATION AND MIMICRY

    The skunk as an example of warning coloration--Warning colours
    among insects--Butterflies--Caterpillars--Mimicry--How mimicry
    has been produced--Heliconidae--Perfection of the
    imitation--Other cases of mimicry among Lepidoptera--Mimicry
    among protected groups--Its explanation--Extension of the
    principle--Mimicry in other orders of insects--Mimicry among the
    vertebrata--Snakes--The rattlesnake and the cobra--Mimicry among
    birds--Objections to the theory of mimicry--Concluding remarks
    on warning colours and mimicry

CHAPTER X

COLOURS AND ORNAMENTS CHARACTERISTIC OF SEX

    Sex colours in the mollusca and crustacea--In insects--In
    butterflies and moths--Probable causes of these colours--Sexual
    selection as a supposed cause--Sexual coloration of birds--Cause
    of dull colours of female birds--Relation of sex colour to
    nesting habits--Sexual colours of other vertebrates--Sexual
    selection by the struggles of males--Sexual characters due to
    natural selection--Decorative plumage of males and its effect on
    the females--Display of decorative plumage by the males--A
    theory of animal coloration--The origin of accessory
    plumes--Development of accessory plumes and their display--The
    effect of female preference will be neutralised by natural
    selection--General laws of animal coloration--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER XI

THE SPECIAL COLOURS OF PLANTS: THEIR ORIGIN AND PURPOSE

    The general colour relations of plants--Colours of fruits--The
    meaning of nuts--Edible or attractive fruits--The colours of
    flowers--Modes of securing cross-fertilisation--The
    interpretation of the facts--Summary of additional facts
    bearing on insect fertilisation--Fertilisation of flowers by
    birds--Self-fertilisation of flowers--Difficulties and
    contradictions--Intercrossing not necessarily
    advantageous--Supposed evil results of close interbreeding--How
    the struggle for existence acts among flowers--Flowers the
    product of insect agency--Concluding remarks on colour in nature

CHAPTER XII

THE GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ORGANISMS

    The facts to be explained--The conditions which have determined
    distribution--The permanence of oceans--Oceanic and continental
    areas--Madagascar and New Zealand--The teachings of the
    thousand-fathom line--The distribution of marsupials--The
    distribution of tapirs--Powers of dispersal as illustrated by
    insular organisms--Birds and insects at sea--Insects at great
    altitudes--The dispersal of plants--Dispersal of seeds by the
    wind--Mineral matter carried by the wind--Objections to the
    theory of wind-dispersal answered--Explanation of north
    temperate plants in the southern hemisphere--No proof of
    glaciation in the tropics--Lower temperature not needed to
    explain the facts--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER XIII

THE GEOLOGICAL EVIDENCES OF EVOLUTION

    What we may expect--The number of known species of extinct
    animals--Causes of the imperfection of the geological
    record--Geological evidences of
    evolution--Shells--Crocodiles--The rhinoceros tribe--The
    pedigree of the horse tribe--Development of deer's horns--Brain
    development--Local relations of fossil and living animals--Cause
    of extinction of large animals--Indications of general progress
    in plants and animals--The progressive development of
    plants--Possible cause of sudden late appearance of
    exogens--Geological distribution of insects--Geological
    succession of vertebrata--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER XIV

FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEMS IN RELATION TO VARIATION AND HEREDITY

    Fundamental difficulties and objections--Mr. Herbert Spencer's
    factors of organic evolution--Disuse and effects of withdrawal
    of natural selection--Supposed effects of disuse among wild
    animals--Difficulty as to co-adaptation of parts by variation
    and selection--Direct action of the environment--The American
    school of evolutionists--Origin of the feet of the
    ungulates--Supposed action of animal intelligence--Semper on the
    direct influence of the environment--Professor Geddes's theory
    of variation in plants--Objections to the theory--On the origin
    of spines--Variation and selection overpower the effects of use
    and disuse--Supposed action of the environment in imitating
    variations--Weismann's theory of heredity--The cause of
    variation--The non-heredity of acquired characters--The theory
    of instinct--Concluding remarks

CHAPTER XV

DARWINISM APPLIED TO MAN

    General identity of human and animal structure--Rudiments and
    variations showing relation of man to other mammals--The
    embryonic development of man and other mammalia--Diseases common
    to man and the lower animals--The animals most nearly allied to
    man--The brains of man and apes--External differences of man and
    apes--Summary of the animal characteristics of man--The
    geological antiquity of man--The probable birthplace of man--The
    origin of the moral and intellectual nature of man--The argument
    from continuity--The origin of the mathematical faculty--The
    origin of the musical and artistic faculties--Independent proof
    that these faculties have not been developed by natural
    selection--The interpretation of the facts--Concluding remarks

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

    PORTRAIT OF AUTHOR
    MAP SHOWING THE 1000-FATHOM LINE
    1.  DIAGRAM OF VARIATIONS OF LACERTA MURALIS
    2.     "       VARIATION OF LIZARDS
    3.     "       VARIATION OF WINGS AND TAIL OF BIRDS
    4.     "       VARIATION OF DOLICHONYX ORYZIVORUS
    5.     "       VARIATION OF AGELAEUS PHOENICEUS
    6.     "       VARIATION OF CARDINALIS VIRGINIANUS
    7.     "       VARIATION OF TARSUS AND TOES
    8.     "       VARIATION OF BIRDS IN LEYDEN MUSEUM
    9.     "       VARIATION OF ICTERUS BALTIMORE
    10.    "       VARIATION OF AGELAEUS PHOENICEUS
    11.    "       CURVES OF VARIATION
    12.    "       VARIATION OF CARDINALIS VIRGINIANUS
    13.    "       VARIATION OF SCIURUS CAROLINENSIS
    14.    "       VARIATION OF SKULLS OF WOLF
    15.    "       VARIATION OF SKULLS OF URSUS LABIATUS
    16.    "       VARIATION OF SKULLS OF SUS CRISTATUS
    17. PRIMULA VERIS (Cowslip). From Darwin's Forms of Flowers
    18. GAZELLA SOEMMERRINGI (to show recognition marks)
    19. RECOGNITION MARKS OF AFRICAN PLOVERS
          (from Seebohm's Charadriadae)
    20. RECOGNITION OF OEDICNEMUS VERMICULATUS AND OE. SENEGALENSIS
          (from Seebohm's Charadriadae)
    21. RECOGNITION OF CURSORIUS CHALCOPTERUS AND C. GALLICUS
          (from Seebohm's Charadriadae)
    22. RECOGNITION OF SCOLOPAX MEGALA AND S. STENURA
          (from Seebohm's Charadriadae)
    23. METHONA PSIDII AND LEPTALIS ORISE
    24. OPTHALMIS LINCEA AND ARTAXA SIMULANS
          (from the Official Narrative of the Voyage of the Challenger)
    25. WINGS OF ITUNA ILIONE AND THYRIDIA MEGISTO
          (from Proceedings of the Entomological Society)
    26. MYGNIMIA AVICULUS AND COLOBORHOMBUS FASCIATIPENNIS
    27. MIMICKING INSECTS FROM THE PHILIPPINES
          (from Semper's Animal Life)
    28. MALVA SYLVESTRIS AND M. ROTUNDIFOLIA
          (from Lubbock's British Wild Flowers in Relation to Insects)
    29. LYTHRUM SALICARIA, THREE FORMS OF
          (from Lubbock's British Wild Flowers in Relation to Insects)
    30. ORCHIS PYRAMIDALIS (from Darwin's Fertilisation of Orchids)
    31. HUMMING-BIRD FERTILISING MARCGRAVIA NEPENTHOIDES
    32. DIAGRAM OF MEAN HEIGHT OF LAND AND DEPTH OF OCEANS
    33. GEOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE HORSE TRIBE
          (from Huxley's American Addresses)
    34. DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING THE GEOLOGICAL DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTS
          (from Ward's Sketch of Palaeobotany)
    35. TRANSFORMATION OF ARTEMIA SALINA TO A. MILHAUSENII
          (from Semper's Animal Life)
    36. BRANCHIPUS STAGNALIS AND ARTEMIA SALINA
          (from Semper's Animal Life)
    37. In order to appreciate fully the aim and object of
this work, and the change which it has effected not only in natural
history but in many other sciences, it is necessary to form a clear
conception of the meaning of the term "species," to know what was the
general belief regarding them at the time when Mr. Darwin's book first
appeared, and to understand what he meant, and what was generally meant,
by discovering their "origin." It is for want of this preliminary
knowledge that the majority of educated persons who are not naturalists
are so ready to accept the innumerable objections, criticisms, and
difficulties of its opponents as proofs that the Darwinian theory is
unsound, while it also renders them unable to appreciate, or even to
comprehend, the vast change which that theory has effected in the whole
mass of thought and opinion on the great question of evolution.

The term "species" was thus defined by the celebrated botanist De Candolle: "A species is a
collection of all the individuals which resemble each other more than they resemble anything
else, which can by mutual fecundation produce fertile individuals, and which reproduce themselves
by generation, in such a manner that we may from analogy suppose them all to have sprung from
one single individual." And the zoologist Swainson gives a somewhat similar definition: "A
species, in the usual acceptation of the term, is an animal which, in a state of nature, is
distinguished by certain peculiarities of form, size, colour, or other circumstances, from
another animal. It propagates, 'after its kind,' individuals perfectly resembling the parent;
its peculiarities, therefore, are permanent."[1]

To illustrate these definitions we will take two common English birds, the rook (Corvus frugilegus)
and the crow (Corvus corone). These are distinct species, because, in the first place, they
always differ from each other in certain slight peculiarities of structure, form, and habits,
and, in the second place, because rooks always produce rooks, and crows produce crows, and
they do not interbreed. It was therefore concluded that all the rooks in the world had descended
from a single pair of rooks, and the crows in like manner from a single pair of crows, while
it was considered impossible that crows could have descended from rooks or vice versâ. The
"origin" of the first pair of each kind was a mystery. Similar remarks may be applied to our
two common plants, the sweet violet (Viola odorata) and the dog violet (Viola canina). These
also produce their like and never produce each other or intermingle, and they were therefore
each supposed to have sprung from a single individual whose "origin" was unknown. But besides
the crow and the rook there are about thirty other kinds of birds in various parts of the world,
all so much like our species that they receive the common name of crows; and some of them differ
less from each other than does our crow from our rook. These are all species of the genus Corvus,
and were therefore believed to have been always as distinct as they are now, neither more nor
less, and to have each descended from one pair of ancestral crows of the same identical species,
which themselves had an unknown "origin." Of violets there are more than a hundred different
kinds in various parts of the world, all differing very slightly from each other and forming
distinct species of the genus Viola. But, as these also each produce their like and do not
intermingle, it was believed that every one of them had always been as distinct from all the
others as it is now, that all the individuals of each kind had descended from one ancestor,
but that the "origin" of these hundred slightly differing ancestors was unknown. In the words
of Sir John Herschel, quoted by Mr. Darwin, the origin of such species was "the mystery of
mysteries."

The Early Transmutationists.

