=Geography and History.=--The Jews were the ancient people of God, the "chosen people," whose
history is recorded in the Old Testament Scriptures. They reached their greatest power and
glory during the reigns of David and Solomon, and they occupied Palestine, with Jerusalem as
their capital city. Within this small territory, some six thousand square miles in extent,
have occurred some of the most important events of history, and the Jewish race has been the
representative of God's purposes toward man. The Almighty communicated directly with his people,
who were thus made acquainted with the divine will. The early Jews were nomadic in their habits,
living in tents, and tending their flocks. The patriarch, who was at the head of a family or
tribe, made laws for the people under him and governed them according to the command of God,
whose representative he was. Because God directly or through the patriarch led and instructed
the people, their education, like their government, is called theocratic.

The Jews lost their independence B.C. 63 in becoming subject to the Romans, and in A.D. 70
Jerusalem was destroyed and the Jews were dispersed. Since that time they have been wanderers
on the face of the earth, and there is no part of the world where they are not to be found.
They have maintained their racial characteristics with remarkable purity. They were an agricultural
people until the Babylonian captivity, after which they became a commercial people. Persecutions,
which have universally followed them, making the acquirement of fixed property unsafe, had
much to do with this change.

=The Home.=--The Jewish family was the purest of antiquity. In general, monogamy was practiced,
and the wife was regarded as the companion and equal of the husband. Children being accepted
as the gift of God, the father stood in the same relation to his children as Jehovah stood
to man. Therefore the father's highest aim was to bring up his children in the knowledge and
service of the Lord. We have here the highest and best type of family training to be found
in history, a characteristic that still holds in Jewish families wherever they exist, and that
has contributed largely to the maintenance of the strong racial peculiarities of the Jews.
The father taught his boys reading and writing, and the mother taught the girls household duties;
but the latter were not entirely excluded from intellectual training.

Great attention was given to the rites and ceremonies of the tabernacle and the Jewish law.
History was also taught as a means of stimulating patriotism. The Jewish child was early made
acquainted with the Scriptures, and history, law, and prophecy became familiar to every Jew.
As there were no schools, this was all done in the home by the parents. Religion was the central
thought of all education, and preparation for the service of the tabernacle and the worship
of God was early given to every child. Thus in an atmosphere of love and piety the Jew discharged
his sacred duty with care and faithfulness. Obedience to the commands of parents, veneration
for the aged, wholesome respect for their ancestors, and familiarity with the Jewish law were
instilled into the minds of all children. Music and dancing were taught in every household,
not for pleasure, but as a means of religious expression. By prayer and holy living, by precept
and example, by word and deed, the father discharged the duty committed to him by God, leading
his children by careful watchfulness toward the ideal manhood which was revealed to him by
the teachings of Holy Writ.

There were no castes among the Hebrews, and the same kind of training was given to the children
of rich and poor, high and low, alike. No other race of people has given such careful home
training to its children, from earliest times to the present.

=The Jewish School.=--There were no elementary Jewish schools until after the destruction of
the nation and the loss of their civil liberty. After the defeat at Jena the Prussians turned
to education as the sole means of retrieving their national greatness; the same was true of
the Austrians after the defeat of Sadowa, and of the French after the fall of the empire at
Sedan. But the Jewish people had set this example eighteen centuries before. Dittes says, "If
ever a people has demonstrated the power of education, it is the people of Israel."

The rabbis required, A.D. 64, that every community should support a school, and that attendance
should be compulsory. This is the first instance of compulsory education on record. If a town
was divided by a stream without a connecting bridge, a school was supported in each part. Not
more than twenty-five pupils could be assigned to one teacher, and where the number was greater
an assistant was employed. If there were forty pupils, there were two teachers. It will thus
be seen that the Jews put into practice eighteen centuries ago a condition of things which,
owing to the complexity of our civilization, is with us to-day largely an unrealized ideal.

Teachers were respected even more than parents, for it was held that parents prepared their
children for the present, but teachers for the future. None but mature married men were employed
as teachers. It was said that "he who learns of a young master is like a man who eats green
grapes, and drinks wine fresh from the press; but he who has a master of mature years is like
a man who eats ripe and delicious grapes, and drinks old wine."

The child entered school at six. Previous to that age physical exercise and bodily growth were
to be the ends sought. "When he enters school," says the Talmud, "load him like an ox." Other
authorities, however, encouraged giving him tasks according to his strength. The subjects taught
were reading, writing, natural history, arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy. The Scriptures
were taught to all the children, and all were versed in religious rites.

The methods were good and attractive, great effort being made to lead the children to understand,
even though it might be necessary to repeat four hundred times. The discipline was humane.
According to the Talmud, "children should be punished with one hand and caressed with two."
Corporal punishment was administered only to children over eleven years of age.

=The Schools of the Rabbis.=--Karl Schmidt says: "Culture in a people begins with the creation
of a literature and the use of writing." The oldest monument of writing among the Israelites
is found in the tables of stone containing the Ten Commandments. Moses, David, Solomon, and
Isaiah, and the other prophets were the founders of the Hebrew literature.

Among the instrumentalities of higher education were the Schools of the Prophets, which taught
philosophy, medicine, poetry, history, and law to the sons of prophets and priests, and of
leading families. These schools were influential in stimulating the production of the historical,
poetical, and prophetic books of the Old Testament.

But more important as direct means of higher education were the Schools of the Rabbis. These
sprang up in Alexandria, Babylon, and Jerusalem in the early centuries of the Christian era.
They were private institutions founded by celebrated teachers. Doubtless it was in such a school
as this that St. Paul was brought up at the feet of Gamaliel. The principal subjects studied
were theology and law,--politics, history, mathematics and science being excluded. The collection
of the sayings and discussions was begun in the second century A.D. and afterward took form
in the Talmud.

=Criticism of Jewish Education.=--1. It exalted the home and insisted on the control of children
by their parents.

2. It gave to woman an honored place in the home.

3. It gave an intelligent interpretation of the school and its functions. In regard to school
attendance, the number of pupils under one teacher, the respect due to teachers, the course
of study, and many other matters, it showed practical wisdom.

4. It taught obedience, patriotism, and religion.

5. It provided only for Jewish children.

6. It was mild and generally wise in discipline, though mistaken in forbidding corporal punishment
before the eleventh year, while admitting its use after that.

7. It developed an honest, intelligent, progressive, God-fearing people.

8. It produced some of the greatest poets and historians of the world.

THE TALMUD[12]

This book, as we have seen, is the outgrowth of the discussions of the rabbis, whose sayings,
collected from the second to the sixth century A.D., are herein contained. It proclaims with
great minuteness rules of life which the faithful Jew still rigidly observes. It has aided
in perpetuating Jewish laws, ceremonies, customs, and religion, and has been the most potent
means of preserving the national and racial characteristics of the Jews for nearly two thousand
years. Driven from one country to another, they have always carried the Talmud with them and
have been guided and kept united by its teachings. During the last quarter of the nineteenth
century the study of the Talmud has been revived, not only among the Jews, but also among Christians
and students of all classes.

EXTRACTS FROM THE TALMUD

1. Even if the gates of heaven are shut to prayer, they are open to tears.

2. Teach thy tongue to say, "I do not know."

3. If a word spoken in its time is worth one piece of money, silence is worth two.

4. Not the place honors the man, but the man the place.

5. The world is saved by the breath of school children.

FOOTNOTES:

[12] See Peters, "Justice to the Jew."

CHAPTER VI

EGYPT

=Literature.=--Maspero, Egyptian Archaeology; Wilkinson, The Ancient Egyptians; Stoddard's
Lectures; Myers, Ancient History; Routledge, The Modern Wonders of the World; Johonnot, Geographical
Reader; Edwards, A Thousand Miles up the Nile; Knox, Egypt and the Holy Land; Ballou, Due West;
Clarke, Ten Great Religions; Ebers, Uarda; and Egyptian Princess; Curtis, Nile Notes of a Howadji.

=Geography and History.=--Egypt consists of a narrow strip of land about six hundred miles
long, lying in the northeastern part of Africa. Its geographical importance is due to the river
Nile, which flows through it, and which, by its annual overflow, enriches the soil, and makes
one of the most productive portions of the globe. For many centuries reservoirs for the storage
of water in time of the overflow, and irrigation canals for its later distribution, have secured
the country against drought, and thus abundant harvests were always assured "independent of
the seasons and the skies." This, with the mild climate and exceedingly rich soil, made food
attainable with slight labor, furnishing an abundance, not only for its own population, but
making Egypt the granary of the Mediterranean countries. We learn from the Scriptures, of the
visits of the sons of Jacob to Egypt to buy corn of Joseph when famine existed in their own
land. These conditions, which made living so cheap, were doubtless the main causes of the early
settlement of the valley of the Nile, and the rapid increase in its population. In confirmation
of the foregoing we have the testimony of Diodorus Siculus, a Greek writer, who visited Egypt
nearly two thousand years ago. He tells us that the entire cost to bring up a child to manhood
was not more than twenty drachmas (less than four dollars of our money).[13]

Of the antiquity of Egyptian history we have abundant evidence. Swinton says, "Egypt is the
country in which we first find a government and political institutions established. Egypt itself
may not have been the oldest nation, but Egyptian history is certainly the oldest history.
Its monuments, records, and literature surpass in antiquity those of Chaldea and India, the
two next oldest nations."[14] The records of the history of Egypt are found in abundance carved
on her monuments, tombs, buildings, implements, etc. They were written in hieroglyphics, the
meaning of which was unknown until the discovery of the "Rosetta stone," which furnished the
key to their interpretation.

The ancient Egyptians excelled in mechanics and arts. It is doubtful whether to-day we know
as much of certain sciences as they did four thousand years ago. Their applications of mechanics,
engineering, dyeing, and embalming still remain to us "lost arts." The wisdom of the Egyptians
was proverbial, and the great scholars of other countries made pilgrimages to Egypt to study
philosophy, literature, law, and science.

=The Caste System.=--The caste system existed also in Egypt, but in no such strict sense as
in India. The first and highest caste consisted of the priests, who represented the learning
and wealth of the country. They owned one third of the land, upon which they paid no tax. They
held all the offices, were the surveyors, engineers, teachers,--indeed, their caste alone furnished
all the higher professions. They ruled the land with an iron hand. Concerning their influence,
Swinton says, "The priests were the richest, most powerful, and most influential order. It
must not be supposed, however, that the modern word 'priest' gives the true idea of this caste.
Its members were not limited to religious offices; they formed an order comprising many occupations
and professions. They were distributed all over the country, possessing exclusively the means
of reading and writing, and the whole stock of medical and scientific knowledge. Their ascendency,
both direct and indirect, over the minds of the people was immense, for they prescribed that
minute religious ritual under which the life of every Egyptian, not excepting the king himself,
was passed."[15]

The second caste consisted of the military class, who also belonged to the nobles. There was
freer intercourse between the two higher castes than was possible in the Hindu system. It was
not uncommon to find brothers belonging to different castes. Ampère found an inscription on
a monument mentioning one son as a priest, another as governor of a province, and a third as
superintendent of buildings. To each member of this caste was assigned a parcel of land (six
and one half acres), which also was free from taxation. These two higher castes were especially
privileged, and the gulf between them and the lower castes was very wide.

The third, or unprivileged caste was subdivided into three orders: (1) the farmers and boatmen;
(2) the mechanics and tradespeople; and (3) the common laborers. Between these, also, there
were bonds of common interest, though a decided difference between the orders was recognized.

The caste system may be outlined as follows:--

            {   I. Priests, who represented the learning and wealth and
            {      ruled the land.
            {
 Egyptian   {  II. Soldiers, who, though lower in caste than the priests,
 Castes.    {      yet associated with them.
            {      {1. Farmers and boatmen, who ranked next.
            { III. {2. Mechanics and tradespeople, who ranked next.
            {      {3. The common laborers.

The slaves were lower than the common laborers, and were not classified among the castes. They
were generally captives taken in war. Respect and reverence for the higher castes were by no
means so marked as in India, and outbreaks between the various classes were common.

=The Home.=--Woman occupied a much higher plane in Egypt than in China or India, though polygamy
was practiced by all classes except the priests. She was the recognized mistress of the home,
possessed some education, and largely directed the education of the children. Children of wives
of different castes had equal rights before the law to inheritance. Great attention was paid
to religious ceremonies, and the children were taught piety and obedience in their early youth.
They were highly regarded in the Egyptian home, and were brought up in an atmosphere of love
and filial respect. The day of a child's birth was regarded as determining its destiny. The
child was brought up on the simplest food, and furnished with scanty clothing, in order that
its body might be strong and supple.

=The Education.=--The education, like that of India, was suited to the different castes. Priests
were the only teachers. While chief attention was given to the education of boys, girls also
received some instruction. The principal subjects taught in the lowest caste were writing and
mathematics. The papyrus plant, found along the Nile, furnished a material on which writing
was practiced. In arithmetic we find an anticipation of modern principles in the concrete methods
employed. Religious instruction was also given. Bodily exercise was severe, running being a
favorite pastime. The expense of schooling was very small. The boy usually followed the trade
of his father, though this was not an inflexible rule. The occupation he was to follow had
some influence in shaping his education.

The higher castes received an extensive education, including a knowledge of higher mathematics,
astronomy, language, natural science, medicine, music, engineering, and religion. The annual
overflow of the Nile necessitated the construction of reservoirs and irrigation canals, and
caused frequent changes of boundary lines. For all this a knowledge of mathematics was necessary,
and this study was therefore greatly encouraged. Institutions of higher learning for the training
of priests and soldiers were found at Thebes, Memphis, and Heliopolis. The Museum of Alexandria,
which reached its highest prosperity about the middle of the third century B.C., and which
made Alexandria the center of the learning of the world at that period, attracted philosophers
and investigators from Athens and Rome. In connection with the Museum was the celebrated Alexandrian
library, which was fostered by the Ptolemies, and which contained a vast collection of books,
variously estimated at from four hundred thousand to seven hundred thousand volumes.[16]

=Criticism of Egyptian Education.=--1. It was dominated by the priests under the caste system,
and did not recognize equality of man.

2. It encouraged greater respect for woman than other oriental systems, but took little account
of her intellectual training.

3. It made use of concrete methods, at least in writing and arithmetic, for the first time
in history.

4. It was non-progressive in its elementary education, the father generally expecting his son
to follow his calling.

5. In higher education it was justly noted, as it attracted wise men from Greece and Rome to
study its science and philosophy.

GENERAL SUMMARY OF ORIENTAL EDUCATION

With the discussion of Egyptian education, the consideration of oriental systems ceases. Concerning
the education of the Phoenicians, Babylonians, and other oriental nations we know but little.
To the Phoenicians the invention of the alphabet, glass making, and purple dyeing is generally
credited, and the knowledge of these things was communicated to the Mediterranean nations with
whom they engaged in trade. The classical countries were materially influenced by Egyptian
culture, and the way was prepared for a broader and more enlightened interpretation of the
purpose of education, and for a more successful evolution of civilization on soil better suited
to that end. We may briefly summarize the lessons of oriental education, as follows:--

1. The Oriental systems fostered class distinctions by furnishing but little enlightenment
to the lower classes, and affording superior advantages to the privileged few.

2. They were non-progressive, for centuries witnessed no improvement in methods of instruction,
reached no higher ideals, and marked no advance in civilization.

3. They did not feel the need of trained teachers.

4. The importance of the individual was not appreciated, and man was regarded as belonging
to the State.

5. The end sought was good conduct, which was to be attained through memorizing moral precepts.
This gave undue importance to the memory.

6. Little encouragement was given to free investigation; authority of teachers and ancestral
traditions were the principal factors employed. The progress of civilization was therefore
very slow.

7. In general, excepting with the Jews, woman had no part in education, being regarded as incapable
of any considerable intellectual development.

8. In China the motive of education was to prepare for success in this life; in India, for
the future life; in Persia, to support the State; in Israel, to rehabilitate the nation; and
in Egypt, to maintain the supremacy of the priests.

9. In no case was the conception reached that the aim of education should be to emancipate
all the powers of man,--physical, intellectual, moral, spiritual.

10. Finally, we may sum up the conditions that prepared the way for classical education in
the words of Karl Schmidt: "In Greece at last the idea of human individuality as the principal
end, and not as a means to that end, was grasped. Conformable to this truth, all human, social,
and political conditions were shaped and education given its form. This idea of the emancipation
of the individual became established in Greece with a brilliancy which attracts attention to
that land until the present time."

FOOTNOTES:

[13] The student should bear in mind the fact that the purchasing power of a sum equivalent
to four dollars was much greater in those days than now.

[14] "Outlines of the World's History," p. 12.

[15] "Outlines of History," p. 20.

[16] It must be observed that the ancient volume, or roll, contained much less matter than
the modern book.

CHAPTER VII

GREECE

=Literature.=--Davidson, Education of the Greek People; Felton, Ancient and Modern Greece;
Grote, History of Greece; Curtius, History of Greece; Morris, Historical Tales (Greek); Mahaffy,
Old Greek Education; Social Life in Greece; The Greek World under Roman Sway; Clarke, Ten Great
Religions; Guhl and Koner, Life of Greeks and Romans; Timayenis, History of Greece; Wilkins,
National Education in Greece; Lord, Beacon Lights; Monroe, Source Book of the History of Education.

=Geography and History.=--Greece lies in the center of the ancient world. The numerous islands
between it and the mainland of Asia made stepping-stones for the hardy mariners who, filled
with the spirit of adventure, pushed out farther and farther from the Asiatic shores until
they reached Greece--the first European country to be settled. Here we find another branch
of the great Aryan race.

The coast is broken up by many indentations which afford fine harbors and invite seafaring
life. The surface is mountainous, the ranges cutting the country up into many sections or states.
The climate is varying, depending upon proximity to the sea, and upon the elevation. The scenery
is beautiful, and the soil in the valleys is fertile. The productions are fruit, grain, and
silk. As might be expected from the nature of the country, the people show much commercial
enterprise. The area is about twenty-five thousand square miles, and the population about 2,200,000.

The Greeks were a brave and ambitious people, and their history is full of heroic deeds and
stirring events. The many small states were often hostile to one another. Athens and Sparta
were the two most important cities. Around them centered two diverse forms of civilization,
and in them were developed two very different standards of education. It will be necessary,
therefore, to discuss separately the education of these two cities. When the Grecian states
were united in defense, no outside power was able to conquer them; but, unfortunately, jealousies
often arose which brought them into conflict with one another, and which finally caused the
overthrow of all. In art and literature Greece reached the summit of her glory in Athens in
the age of Pericles, the fifth century B.C. The work accomplished by Athens has been the inspiration
of the world for nearly twenty-four hundred years.

In government, in manners, and in customs the Greeks were very different from the oriental
nations. The spirit of political freedom prevailed here for the first time in the history of
the world. Doubtless the small size of the states, which were separated from each other by
natural boundaries, was an important factor in stimulating the people to secure and maintain
this independence. "Man's character is formed by the surroundings of his home." The beautiful
valleys and mountains, the varying climate, the sea with its many islands and harbors, the
soil, in the main yielding its fruit only by hard labor, were elements well calculated to produce
a hardy race,--a race with lofty ideals, loving beauty both of mind and body.

=The Olympian Games.=--Because of their national popularity and their direct influence on the
education of the people, a description of the Olympian games is not out of place in a history
of education. At first they were religious in character. They were celebrated in honor of Zeus,
at Olympia, in Elis, which became the Holy Land of Greece. They took place once in four years,
and this period, called an Olympiad, furnished the basis of computing time. The first Olympiad
begins with B.C. 776. All of the states took part in these contests, and when at war, hostilities
were suspended during the games, that visitors might attend them unmolested. Thus once in four
years the various states of Greece were united in friendly contest and joyous festivity.

At first there was only the foot race, but afterward wrestling, jumping, and throwing the spear
were added. Still later, chariot and horse races, and contests in painting, sculpture, and
literature, were included. Only Greek citizens of good moral character could enter the contests.
The prize, though but a simple wreath of laurel or olive, was most highly esteemed. At first
spectators were attracted from the different parts of Greece only; but afterward the games
became great fairs for the exchange of commodities, as well as contests which attracted people
from all parts of Europe.

The Olympian games tended to unite the people and cultivate the arts of peace. They encouraged
the development of perfect bodies, the training being designed to produce superior athletes.
They inculcated broader views, bringing together people from different parts of their own land
and from other lands. They incited intellectual ambition by adding in later times literary
productions. They created a manly spirit and stimulated a national patriotism.

CHAPTER VIII

ATHENS

=Literature.=--(See general literature for Greece.) Harrison, Story of Greece; Macaulay, Essays;
Curtius, History of Greece; Davidson, Education of the Greeks; Wilkins, National Education
in Greece; Freeman, Historical Essays.

=History.=--The ideals of Athens--educational, political, and moral--were in direct contrast
to those of Sparta. At Athens, love of liberty, love of knowledge, and love of beauty went
hand in hand. Though the body was not neglected, as is proved by the beautiful types of manhood
preserved for us in Athenian art, the Athenians believed that the truest beauty was to be reached
only by the development of the mind.

Hence Athens brought forth great men like Pericles, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, she created
a literature that has influenced the world, she developed art to its highest excellence, and
gained for herself a permanent and high place in the world's history. Sparta did none of these
things, therefore her ruin was sure and speedy; while the decline of Athens was slow and her
influence still lives.

The spirit of Athens was liberty, while that of Sparta was tyranny. It is true that Athens
had slaves; indeed, only one fourth of the inhabitants were free; but even the slaves had a
large share of freedom, and enjoyed some means of education. We learn that children of the
wealthy were committed to trusted slaves, called pedagogues, who escorted them to school, instructed
them in many things, and had a right to punish them for disobedience. This could not have been
allowed by parents with such high ideals had the slaves been debased as were those of Sparta.

In Athens we find for the first time the democratic idea of government; this was by no means
so completely realized as it is in modern times, especially in the western world. The "Age
of Pericles" (B.C. 480-430) forms the most brilliant period of Athens, a period hardly surpassed
in some respects by any other in the world's history. Solon (B.C. 638) was the great lawgiver
of Athens. His wise laws had much influence on the prosperity and intellectual development
of the people.

=The Home.=--In Athens the child was left with the mother until the sixth or seventh year.
The toys were greater in variety than with any other people of antiquity. They were much the
same in character as those of modern times, and their purpose was to amuse the children rather
than to furnish a definite preparation for life, as in Persia and Sparta. Play, therefore,
was recognized as an important factor in the child's life, and the toys in use stimulated and
encouraged the joyous element in the child's nature. That toys are a potent influence toward
healthful mental and physical growth is an educational truth that has been fully recognized
by us only within recent years. And yet the Athenians appreciated it in the home, twenty-five
centuries ago.

The training was intellectual and humane, though strict obedience was enforced. Great attention
was paid to the works of the poets, selections being taught to all the children. The father
interested himself chiefly in the education of the boys, and when he was unable to discharge
this duty an elderly male relative was selected as mentor, who devoted his leisure hours to
such training. Little attention was paid to the mental training of the girls.

Women were not held in so high esteem as in Sparta, nor were they as worthy of respect. The
husband exercised over his wife the same authority as over his children. Neither by social
position nor by intellectual attainment was she his equal. "Her own chamber was the world of
the Athenian woman; her maids were her companions; household duties and the preparation of
clothing for her family were her employment."

=Education.=--The father was free to choose for his children their school and the character
of their education. The State furnished gymnasia in which schools could be held, fixed the
qualifications of teachers, the school hours, and the number of pupils to a teacher. Once a
year public examinations were held, the expense of which the State defrayed. The schools were
private institutions, supported by private means, though under State inspection. The teachers
were philosophers or wise men, thoroughly competent to discharge the duties of their office.

