FLUES.--Flues have been generally used in heating for many years, and although the method is
rude, imperfect and unsatisfactory, they possess certain advantages on the score of economy,
which will prevent their total supercedure until some equally cheap and effective method shall
be found, to take their place. It cannot be questioned that houses of moderate extent can be
heated at much less expense for the original cost of apparatus by the flue system than by any
other now before the public. Flues have the advantage over steam or hot water in their power
to generate heat and supply it to the green or hot house in a very short space of time, and
with this apparatus, the fires may be allowed to go out on mild and bright days in winter,
with the certainty that heat can be easily and quickly commanded at nightfall. Steam cannot
be generated quickly, and the hot water apparatus requires considerable time to get into full
operation, with the usual amount of fuel.

Among the serious objections to the use of flues, is the unequal distribution of heat throughout
the house; the parts near the furnace being overheated, while at the chimney it is scarcely
warm. This difficulty can be partially obviated by the use of materials in the construction
of the flues, of different thicknesses,--being made thick and heavy at the furnace, and gradually
becoming thinner and lighter as it extends towards the chimney. Again, flues generally require
more fuel than a hot water apparatus, and moreover, they are unsightly in an ornamental house,
and with the best care in their construction and management, they do not give entirely satisfactory
results.

Earthenware drain-pipe is frequently employed for flues, and when care is taken to prevent
their cracking by the excessive heat near the furnace, they answer the purpose very well. When
properly secured at their joints they prevent the escape of gaseous matter more perfectly than
brick flues.

Flues should be elevated a few inches above the floor, and supported by bricks, to allow all
the radiating surface to act upon the atmosphere of the house, and should have, in order to
secure sufficient draft, a gradual rise through their whole length from the furnace to the
entrance into the chimney.

The furnace should be built inside the house at one end, with the fire and ash-pit doors opening
into a shed outside, to prevent any escape of gas into the house while replenishing the fire.
It will be necessary to place the furnace low enough to allow a proper rise to the flue. If
the flue be made to rise immediately from the furnace about one foot, it may then be carried
fifty feet, with a rise of not more than six inches, and the draft will then be sufficient.

The dimensions of the flue may vary from 8 to 12 inches in width, and from 12 to 18 inches
in height, according to the space required to be heated. The usual mode of construction, when
bricks are used, is to lay them crosswise and flat for the bottom and top, and to set them
edgewise for the sides. Tiles for the bottom and covering are an improvement upon bricks: being
thinner, the heat passes through them more readily, while they still retain the heat sufficiently
to equalize the temperature. Tiles used for the top covering are sometimes made with circular
depressions for holding water for evaporation.

STEAM.--The employment of steam for heating green houses, graperies, &c., is almost entirely
superceded by the hot water method. It will, therefore, be necessary only to allude briefly
to this part of our subject. It occasionally happens that a conservatory attached to a dwelling
is heated by the same steam apparatus employed to heat the latter, but we believe that a person
who should advocate, at the present day, the general adoption of steam as a means of heating
horticultural structures, would be regarded as belonging to a generation which has now passed away.

Steam travels through pipes with great rapidity, and parting with its heat rapidly, it becomes
quickly condensed, unless the boiler is of large capacity and capable of furnishing a full
supply. It is, at best, an unsatisfactory mode of heating plant houses, for if from any cause
the water in the boiler is reduced below the boiling point, the steam in the pipes is instantly
condensed, and with it all heat, except that remaining in the iron of the pipes, and the condensed
steam, is withdrawn.

Hood, an English author on heating, quoted by McIntosh in his valuable work the "Book of the
Garden," thus compares the merits of steam and hot water. "The weight of steam at the temperature
of 212° compared with the weight of water at 212°, is about as 1 to 1694, so that a pipe that
is filled with water at 212°, contains 1694 times as much matter as one of equal size filled
with steam. If the source of heat be withdrawn from the steam pipes, the temperature will soon
fall below 212° and the steam immediately in contact with the pipes will condense: but in condensing,
the steam parts with its latent heat and this heat in passing from the latent to the sensible
state, will again raise the temperature of pipes. But as soon as they are a second time cooled
down below 212° a further portion of steam will condense, and a further quantity of latent
heat will pass into the state of heat of temperature, and so on until the whole quantity of
latent heat has been abstracted and the whole of the steam condensed, in which state it will
possess just as much heating power as a similar bulk of water at the like temperature; that
is, the same as a quantity of water occupying 1-1694th part of the space that the steam originally
did.

By experiments made by the above authority, it has been proved that a given bulk of steam will
lose as much of its heat in one minute as the same bulk of hot water would in three hours and
three quarters. And further admitting that the heat of cast iron is nearly the same as that
of water, if two pipes of the the same calibre and thickness be filled, the one with water
and the other with steam each at 212° of temperature, the former will contain 4.68 times as
much heat as the latter; therefore if the steam pipe cools down to 60° in one hour, the water
pipe will take four hours and a half to cool down to the same point. In a hot water apparatus
we have in addition to the above, the heat from the water in the boiler, and of the heated
material in and about the furnace, which continues to give out heat for a long time after the
fire is totally extinguished; whereas in a steam apparatus, under the same circumstances we
have no source of heat except the pipes by which it is conveyed--giving an advantage in favor
of hot water over steam as regards its power of heating hot houses, and maintaining heat after
the fire ceased to burn, in nearly the proportion of 1 to 7--that is, hot water will circulate
from six to eight times longer than steam under the above circumstances."

TANKS.--This mode of heating horticultural buildings has been used in England for some years,
and has, of late, obtained considerable popularity in this country; mainly, however, for the
purpose of obtaining bottom heat. The tank method is more steady and reliable in its operations
in this respect, than heating by flues or pipes, but even its most strenuous advocates must
admit that for atmospheric heat hot water pipes or flues must be employed in some shape or
other, where the tanks are covered with earth or sand beds for propagating purposes. With slate
or metallic covering they are sometimes used solely for atmospheric heat, and are found to
answer well. But if tanks are constructed of substantial and enduring materials, they possess
little if any advantage, on the score of expense, over hot water pipes, while they occupy much
more room and are unsightly objects in a well ordered green-house.

Wooden tanks are frequently used where the heat is required to rise perpendicularly from them.
If constructed of good pine plank, well put together with white lead, and thoroughly painted
inside and out, they will last for several years. Scarcely any heat will be radiated from the
sides and bottom of a wooden tank. Tanks of brick and cement would answer better than those
made of wood, if it were possible to make them water-tight when supported by piers above the
ground, as they are usually built. But however carefully constructed, these materials are so
unyielding to the expansion and contraction they are subjected to, that it is nearly impossible
to prevent leakage for any length of time. A large number of brick and cement tanks have come
under our notice, and we cannot call to mind a single one of them all that has not been a continual
source of vexation and expense to its owner, since its first construction.

The principle objections to tank heating, as usually employed, are an excess of bottom heat
and a deficiency of atmospheric heat, with a superabundance of moisture when the vapor from
the tank is not properly excluded from the house. Tanks should be covered with some good radiating
material, as slate or metal. If slate is employed, the joints should be carefully and effectually
cemented. Boards are sometimes used as a covering, but their radiating power is slight, and
their decay rapid.

Soil or sand, to the depth of six to ten inches, is usually placed upon the tanks, and used
as a plunging bed for pots containing cuttings; or the cuttings are sometimes inserted in the
bed itself.

Any arrangement by which vapor from the tanks is admitted to the roots of plants is to be avoided,
for however desirable a moist bottom heat may be, it is found from experience that the soil
is frequently rendered a mass of puddle, in which no living roots can exist.

A portion of the covering of the tank may be made moveable to allow moisture to escape into
the house when required.

By means of the tank, bottom heat for propagating or other purposes, can be very steadily and
uniformly maintained, more so than by other modes, and the changes of temperature of the outer
air do not materially affect it. But the case is different with regard to the air of the house,
which is frequently reduced below the freezing point, in severe weather. If the bottom heat
is of the required temperature, any attempt to counteract the coldness of the air of the house
by increasing the fire, would produce an injurious excess of bottom heat. It is evident that
while the required supply of heat for the bottom is uniform, and that for the top exceedingly
irregular, both objects cannot be properly secured except by a separate supply of heat for
each. For these reasons we would employ a hot water pipe or pipes, passing around the house,
on the same level with the tanks, supplied with a valve to regulate the heat at pleasure, or
a brick smoke flue constructed in the usual manner.

Tanks are usually divided in the centre, thus forming channels for the flow and return circulation
side by side, equalizing the temperature throughout their whole length. This form is sometimes
departed from by carrying the tank around the house, and connecting each end with the boiler,
but in this case, except in small houses, a uniform temperature cannot be maintained, as the
water will have lost several degrees of heat before it has accomplished its circuit. Another
arrangement is to connect the remote end of the tank by an iron pipe for the return circulation,
passing under the tank the whole distance to the boiler. This is not as perfect and effective
an arrangement of pipes and tanks as that before referred to, as in this case we do not have
the heat from the pipe under control.

A writer in a late number of the "Gardeners' Monthly," gives the following description of tanks
erected by him to obviate excessive moisture and radiate a portion of their heat into the atmosphere
of the house.

"In the winter of 1863-4, I finished two span-roof houses, each 60 feet in length, with water
tanks three feet in width, running entirely around on both sides of each house, and heated
by a single furnace. The tanks were made with wooden bottoms and sides, and covered with slate
carefully cemented. My design was to heat the houses entirely by the tanks, by far the larger
portion of the heat being given off from the slate covering, and as a bottom heat for plants.
As I understand the various writers upon this subject, this is the approved plan. But I have
found considerable difficulty, and have been obliged to modify my plan in various respects:

In the first place, wooden tanks, with the top covered with sand, will not give off heat sufficiently
to keep up growth in houses of this size during extremely cold weather. By protecting the houses
with shutters, this difficulty may be obviated. Crowding the fire, and raising the water in
the tanks to a high temperature, is a more objectionable remedy. In this way the bottom heat
is too strong. But my most serious difficulty has arisen from excessive humidity. I put three
inches of sand over the whole slate surface of the tanks, using a part for cuttings, and the
rest, (say 100 running feet of the three feet wide table), for standing pot plants upon the
surface of the sand. The plants dried rapidly, and required watering every morning. The result
was, that in watering the plants, and of course the sand on which they stood, to some extent,
it was like pouring water upon a flue, or upon hot pipes: a constant steam was given off; all
the moisture in the sand was rapidly converted into steam; so, also the water in the pots was
quickly expelled. In order to heat the house sufficiently, the bottom heat became too strong,
and the plants were in too direct contact with it. In cold days the house was in a perfect
fog. It was ruinous to the plants. The remedy was simple: more heat must be allowed to escape
from the tank into the house, without coming in contact with the sand-bed, and the moist earth
of the plants. Another slate floor was laid, an inch above the tank slate, on which to put
the sand and stand the plants. This hot air chamber opens into the house on the back and front
side of the tank. Thus the whole radiating surface of the top of the tank may be directed into
the house, or may be confined as bottom heat, as may be found necessary. By this plan, excessive
humidity may be entirely obviated, and the heat completely controlled, as wanted."

HOT WATER PIPES.--It is generally conceded, among practical men, that the circulation of hot
water in iron pipes is the best known method of heating plant houses. The property which heated
water possesses of retaining for a considerable length of time its heat and transmitting it
to the pipes at long distances from the boiler, renders it a most effective agency for such
purposes: A perfect control of the moisture of the atmosphere, by means of evaporating pans
attached to the pipes; entire freedom from deleterious gases, sometimes escaping from flues,
and the substantial character and enduring qualities of the apparatus, are important considerations
in favor of this method of heating which are not to be overlooked or underrated.

It is true that a house of a given size cannot as soon be brought to the required temperature
after the fire is first lighted, as by other modes of heating, but when once in full operation
greater regularity is maintained, and if the fire should by any neglect go out, heat is still
radiated, often for several hours, before the pipes become entirely cold.

For heating ornamental houses of glass, pipes are also to be recommended on account of the
little room they occupy and the neatness of their appearance compared with the unsightly flues
or tank. If properly put up, the pipes never leak at the joints, as is the case frequently
with tanks, and scarcely need any repairs for years. The first cost of apparatus for heating
by hot water pipes exceeds that of the other methods which we have named, but when we take
into account its great durability, economy of fuel, and the satisfactory results produced in
the growth of plants in houses heated in this manner, it must be evident that this method is
the cheapest in the end.

It is generally supposed that the heat obtained from steam or hot water pipes necessarily contains
moisture. For those who have had any experience in the use of these methods of heating, it
is needless to say that such is not the case. To obtain moisture evaporation of water in some
manner in the atmosphere must be effected. This is provided for by attaching to the pipes evaporating
pans filled with water, by which the moisture can be perfectly regulated and controlled. The
capacity of the boiler and the length of the pipes should be in proportion to the size of the
house to be heated, bearing in mind that it is better to have a reserve of heating power for
extraordinary occasions. In such cases economy in fuel will be secured, as the fires will not
be required to be kept constantly burning brightly.

Fault is sometimes found with the apparatus when it lies entirely with the proprietor of the
establishment, who in his short-sighted economy, has restricted the builder in the amount of
pipe put into the apparatus.

CONSTRUCTION, &c.

The general plan of Horticultural structures may be as perfect as possible, but if the details
are not well carried out, and especially if the workmanship be not good, they will prove a
source of never-ending vexation and expense. Insecure foundations, ill-fitting doors and ventilators,
imperfect glazing, and inferior workmanship of every description, are evils that skillful gardeners
have to contend with, and upon whom the consequences of such defects usually fall, when they
should be placed upon the shoulders of the constructor.

Methods for building cheap Graperies and Green houses have often been described, and we find
many of these imperfect and temporary structures scattered through the country. Such buildings
may be cheap as respects their first cost, but their durability is a question which should
enter into the calculations of their builders, as well as the consideration of the original
outlay. After a year or two we find them with open joints, leaky roofs, and decaying foundations.
The inferior and temporary character of materials and workmanship is often a source of serious
loss to their owners, and every building of this description demonstrates the mistaken and
short-sighted economy of its projector. It is much wiser and truer economy to expend at the
outset, a sufficient amount of money and care to make the structure permanent, and to obviate
the necessity of constant repairs. Experience has taught us that if they are well and substantially
built, these structures will endure for twenty years with very few repairs except an occasional
coat of paint. It need not be demonstrated that the profit and gratification to be derived
from a well-built house far exceed those accruing from a cheap and imperfect one, with escapes
for the heat in winter, and inlets for cold air and driving snow and rain.

The foundations of Horticultural buildings should be of stone or brick, both below and above
the ground, if they are to be of a permanent character. The superstructure should be of the
best white pine and thoroughly painted. In building curvilinear roofs the rafters and sash
bars should be sawed out in pieces to the regular curve. The rafters being put together in
sections, breaking joints are thus equally strong throughout their length. The advantages of
sawed bars over those bent in the usual manner, are very great. The thrust of the roof is but
slight, and the house always remains in shape. With the bent bars the strain is enormous, as
may be seen in the settling of such houses at the ridge, and expansion at the sides, besides
the liability of breaking the glass by the constantly varying strain of the bars.

Iron has been frequently and strongly recommended in the construction of horticultural buildings.
It has been used, with very satisfactory results in England, and doubtless it may there be
found to be the best and most economical material for such purposes. It has been tried also
in this country, but the experiment has not resulted so favorably. The main difficulty is that,
in this climate, the expansion and contraction of the iron rafters and bars are so great that
the glass is continually and badly breaking, and it is very difficult to keep the joints tight
enough to repel the rain and the cold air. There can be no doubt that in this country, wood
is a better material than iron for these purposes.

Thick and double thick glass has heretofore been used almost exclusively for first class houses,
but the high price of glass has of late, compelled the use of a thinner article. It is generally
believed that thick glass will resist hail storms better than thin, but on this question practical
men differ in their opinions. It is contended, on the other hand, that the elasticity of the
thin panes resist a blow better than the unyielding thick one, also that the latter is more
likely to be broken by the accumulation of water between the laps of the glass.

We have found that the 8 by 10 size of single thick French window glass, second or third quality,
is sufficiently good for Horticultural buildings, and we do not use any other, unless especially
called for by the proprietor.

Glazing is often badly executed, half an inch lap, and sometimes more, being often allowed
to the glass, from the mistaken idea that rain, in a driving storm, will find its way through.
A lap of one-eighth of an inch is amply sufficient in any case. The glass should be well "bedded"
down to the sash bar, in putty containing a portion of white lead, and well secured with small
iron nails or glaziers points. All putty should be removed from the outside when the work is
finished, and the sash bars should then be painted with a heavy coat of thick paint which will
close up the joints and render them water tight.

Ample ventilation should be provided both at the top and bottom of houses, so that large quantities
of air may be supplied when necessary, as in ripening the wood of vines in graperies, and in
"hardening off" plants in green houses before removal to the open air.

By reference to the numerous designs given in this work, the manner of arranging the interior
details, such as shelving, tables, walks, hot water pipes, and the general features of construction
and adaptation, will be understood.

HOT-BEDS.

The most simple form of Horticultural structures, and one known in almost every garden, is
the Hot-bed. To persons of experience in their construction and management, we cannot hope
to give any important information, but having seen in many instances the operations of these
beds imperfectly performed, we offer a few simple suggestions and directions which will be
of advantage to the novice.

The location of the bed should be, if possible, a sheltered one, especially on the north side,
while towards the east and south it should be open. This shelter or protection is needed chiefly
to prevent an undue radiation of heat from the glass, and the entrance of a strong, cold current
of air when the sashes are lifted for ventilation. This radiation is not only hurtful to the
plants by causing sudden and extreme changes of temperature, but, if allowed to proceed too
far, will cause the heat of the bed to "run out." Let the shelter, therefore, be as thorough
as possible.

We have found the south side of a barn, or a tight board fence a good location. The barn would
be preferable, on account of its proximity to the materials that furnish the source of heat--the
manure pile.

If the soil is wet, or of a heavy nature, it would be better that the bed be made entirely
upon the surface. If the situation is a dry one, and the soil gravelly or sandy, then a pit
may be excavated, of the size of the intended frame, and three feet in depth. A hollow brick
wall should be built up from the bottom, six inches above the surface, if it is intended that
the bed should be permanent; otherwise the excavation may be lined with boards, or if designed
for only a season's use, it may be left without any support. Hot-beds made under ground require
less material, are more lasting in their heat, and require less attention than those built
on the surface. On the contrary, should the heat fail from any cause, beds built up on the
surface possess the advantage of being more easily renewed by the application of fresh fermenting
materials, or "linings" as they are usually termed.

About the 20th of February is early enough, in this latitude, to gather and prepare materials
for the hot-bed. Fresh stable manure alone may be used, though preference is generally given
to a mixture, in equal proportions, of manure and forest leaves. Place on the ground, (under
a shed if possible,) a layer of leaves one foot thick, and on this a foot of manure, then leaves
and manure alternately until the required quantity is obtained. Let this heap remain four or
five days, or until it begins to heat, then turn over and thoroughly mix the leaves and manure
together, and throw them up into a compact, conical heap. In four or five days more your materials
will be ready for your bed. Mark off your intended site, running as nearly east and west as
practicable. Your frame should be about six feet wide and of any required length. The manure
bed should extend a foot outside the frame on the sides and ends. See Figure 1, in which a
is the manure heap.

Build up the manure square and level, shaking, mixing, and beating it with the back of the
fork, to the height of about four feet, making the centre somewhat higher than the sides, to
allow for settling. The frame should be of 1-1/4 inch pine, twenty inches high at the back,
and seventeen inches in front, and may be put together with hooks and staples, so as to be
removed and stored, when not in use. The sashes should be six by three and a half feet, and
the frame should have cross-bars at every sash for support. It is well to have the frame divided
by partitions into two or three compartments, that one section may receive more or less ventilation
as the plants grown in them may require. In three or four days the heat will be up in the bed,
and then it should be covered with six inches of fine garden mould, which should be raked off
level. When the soil is heated through, the seeds may be sown. Ventilation should be given
to let off the steam and vitiated air, but with caution to avoid the loss of heat. Straw mats
will be required to cover the sashes at night, and should be regularly put on. If the weather
is very cold, shutters or boards in addition are necessary. If care is exercised in the management,
the heat will be maintained as long as is desirable.

Figure 2 represents the hot-bed partly beneath the surface.

The frame in this case will be fifteen inches in height at the back, and twelve inches in front,
constructed in the same manner as that before described. The materials and the general preparation
of the bed is also the same. A space of about eight inches should be left between the surface
of the mould and the glass, to allow for the growth of plants before the sashes can be removed.
Coarse litter should be put around the frame, and up even with the top of it, to confine the
heat. Beds should be well covered before the sun has left them in the afternoon, and not opened
in the morning until the sun is well up. Seeds of vegetables for early planting, and those
of annual flowers may be sown, and cuttings of green-house and bedding plants started in pots.
Such a bed will also be a favorable place for the propagation of grape eyes, in which an experienced
person will often succeed better by this humble means, than with the best designed and most
conveniently arranged propagating house.

THE COLD PIT.

Many who have not the advantage of a green-house, wish to preserve over the winter their half-hardy
plants which have ornamented their garden during the summer. These are generally consigned
to the cellar to dry up and be forgotten. In the darkness they loose their leaves, and when
in spring they are again brought to light many are dried up and dead. Properly constructed
cold pits offer superior advantages for the protection of many plants of a half-hardy nature,
and indeed some that are usually considered tender here find a congenial location. Such a pit
should be permanent in its character, and located in a spot easy of access to the house, that
it may receive proper attention during the winter. A convenient size, and one sufficient for
an ordinary garden would be ten feet long by five wide, varied somewhat from these dimensions
to suit size of glass in sashes. The pit should be excavated four feet and a half below the
surface, and a hollow wall of brick built up to one foot above the surface. Six inches in depth
of coarse gravel should be placed in the bottom on which the pots containing the plants rest.
Shelves may be also placed around the sides for the smaller plants. The wall above the ground
should be "banked up" to within three inches of the top and sodded.

Double sashes we have found give great protection and save attention in covering the pit. The
bars of these sashes are "rabbited" on both sides and double glazed, thus enclosing a stratum
of air affording a good non-conductor of heat from within, or cold from without the pit. The
plants when first put in the pit will require to be watered and the sashes opened during the
day, until cold weather. But little water is required during winter, as the plants are in a
state of rest, and partial dryness at the roots is of advantage. In very severe weather straw
mats would be required, but the double glass would keep out 10 to 15 degrees of frost. Some
ventilation must be given on mild days when the sun is bright to carry off the dampness, but
in dull cold weather all should be kept closed up. Camellias and Azaleas do admirably in such
quarters, and can be brought into the dwelling and flowered at any time during the winter.
Many plants grow with surprising luxuriance after remaining dormant in such quarters all winter.
As the season advances in the spring ventilation must be given during the day, closing the
sashes at night until the weather becomes mild when they may be gradually removed altogether.

PROPAGATING HOUSES.

Cheap and effective propagating and plant houses, for Nurserymen, have become of late years
a necessity from the great increase of the trade in flowering plants for the decoration of
our gardens and green-houses, and the very extensive demand for the new and superior varieties
of the native grape. PETER HENDERSON, Esq., of Jersey City, long known as an extensive and
successful propagator, in an article written for the HORTICULTURIST, thus speaks of his house
and management:

