And he was dead. He had died at the age of sixty-seven, in the arms of the woman he had brought
there. His evil career was over, and his soul had gone to that future life for which he had
made it fit by the life he had led here. His body was buried in Applethwaite churchyard, in
the further corner of which long, straggling valley parish Lovel Grange is situated. At his
grave there stood no single mourner;--but the young lord was there, of his right, disdaining
even to wear a crape band round his hat. But the woman remained shut up in her own chamber,--a
difficulty to the young lord and his lawyer, who could hardly tell the foreigner to pack and
begone before the body of her late--lover had been laid in the grave. It had been simply intimated
to her that on such a date,--within a week from the funeral,--her presence in the house could
not longer be endured. She had flashed round upon the lawyer, who had attempted to make this
award known to her in broken French, but had answered simply by some words of scorn, spoken
in Italian to her waiting-maid.

Then the will was read in the presence of the young earl;--for there was a will. Everything
that the late lord had possessed was left, in one line, to his best-beloved friend, the Signorina
Camilla Spondi; and it was stated, and very fully explained, that Camilla Spondi was the Italian
lady living at the Grange at the date on which the will was made. Of the old lord's heir, the
now existing Earl Lovel, no mention was made whatever. There were, however, two other clauses
or parts in the will. There was a schedule giving in detail the particulars of the property
left to Camilla Spondi; and there was a rambling statement that the maker of the will acknowledged
Anna Murray to be his illegitimate daughter,--that Anna Murray's mother had never been the
testator's legitimate wife, as his real wife, the true Countess Lovel, for whom he had separately
made adequate provision, was still alive in Sicily at the date of that will,--and that by a
former will now destroyed he had made provision for Anna Murray, which provision he had revoked
in consequence of the treatment which he had received from Josephine Murray and her friends.
They who believed the statements made in this will afterwards asserted that Anna had been deprived
of her inheritance by the blow with which the tailor had felled the Earl to the earth.

To Camilla Spondi intimation was given of the contents of the Earl's will as far as they concerned
her; but she was told at the same time that no portion of the dead man's wealth would be placed
in her hands till the courts should have decided whether or no the old lord had been sane or
insane when he signed the document. A sum of money was, however, given her, on condition that
she should take her immediate departure;--and she departed. With her personally we need have
no further concern. Of her cause and of her claim some mention must be made; but in a few pages
she will drop altogether from our story.

A copy of the will was also sent to the lawyers who had hitherto taken charge of the interests
of the repudiated Countess, and it was intimated that the allowance hitherto made to her must
now of necessity cease. If she thought fit to prosecute any further claim, she must do so by
proving her marriage;--and it was explained to her, probably without much of legal or precise
truth in the explanation, that such proof must include the disproving of the assertion made
in the Earl's will. As it was the intention of the heir to set aside that will, such assurance
was, to say the least of it, disingenuous. But the whole thing had now become so confused that
it could hardly be expected that lawyers should be ingenuous in discussing it.

The young Earl clearly inherited the title and the small estate at Lovel Grange. The Italian
woman was primâ facie heiress to everything else,--except to such portion of the large personal
property as the widow could claim as widow, in the event of her being able to prove that she
had been a wife. But in the event of the will being no will, the Italian woman would have nothing.
In such case the male heir would have all if the marriage were no marriage;--but would have
nothing if the marriage could be made good. If the marriage could be made good, the Lady Anna
would have the entire property, except such portion as would be claimed of right by her mother,
the widow. Thus the Italian woman and the young lord were combined in interest against the
mother and daughter as regarded the marriage; and the young lord and the mother and daughter
were combined against the Italian woman as regarded the will;--but the young lord had to act
alone against the Italian woman, and against the mother and daughter whom he and his friends
regarded as swindlers and impostors. It was for him to set aside the will in reference to the
Italian woman, and then to stand the brunt of the assault made upon him by the soi-disant wife.

In a very short time after the old Earl's death a double compromise was offered on behalf of
the young Earl. The money at stake was immense. Would the Italian woman take £10,000, and go
her way back to Italy, renouncing all further claim; and would the soi-disant Countess abandon
her title, acknowledge her child to be illegitimate, and go her way with another £10,000;--or
with £20,000, as was soon hinted by the gentlemen acting on the Earl's behalf? The proposition
was one somewhat difficult in the making, as the compromise, if made with both, would be excellent,
but could not be made to any good effect with one only. The young Earl certainly could not
afford to buy off the Italian woman for £10,000, if the effect of such buying off would only
be to place the whole of the late lord's wealth in the hands of his daughter and of his daughter's
mother.

The Italian woman consented. She declared with Italian energy that her late loving friend had
never been a day insane; but she knew nothing of English laws, and but little of English money.
She would take the £10,000,--having had a calculation made for her of the number of lire into
which it would run. The number was enormous, and she would take the offer. But when the proposal
was mentioned to the Countess, and explained to her by her old friend, Thomas Thwaite, who
had now become a poor man in her cause, she repudiated it with bitter scorn,--with a scorn
in which she almost included the old man who had made it to her. "Is it for that, that I have
been fighting?" she said.

"For that in part," said the old man.

"No, Mr. Thwaite, not for that at all; but that my girl may have her birth allowed and her
name acknowledged."

"Her name shall be allowed and her birth shall be acknowledged," said the tailor, in whose
heart there was nothing base. "She shall be the Lady Anna, and her mother shall be the Countess
Lovel." The estate of the Countess, if she had an estate, then owed the tailor some five or
six thousand pounds, and the compromise offered would have paid the tailor every shilling and
have left a comfortable income for the two women.

"For myself I care but little," said the mother, taking the tailor's hand in hers and kissing
it. "My child is the Lady Anna, and I do not dare to barter away her rights." This took place
down at the cottage in Cumberland, and the tailor at once went up to London to make known the
decision of the Countess,--as he invariably called her.

Then the lawyers went to work. As the double compromise could not be effected, the single compromise
could not stand. The Italian woman raved and stamped, and swore that she must have her half
million of lire. But of course no right to such a claim had been made good to her, and the
lawyers on behalf of the young Earl went on with their work. Public sympathy as a matter of
course went with the young Earl. As against the Italian woman he had with him every English
man and woman. It was horrible to the minds of English men and English women that an old English
Earldom should be starved in order that an Italian harlot might revel in untold riches. It
was felt by most men and protested by all women that any sign of madness, be it what it might,--however
insignificant,--should be held to be sufficient against such a claimant. Was not the fact that
the man had made such a will in itself sufficient proof of his madness? There were not a few
who protested that no further proof could be necessary. But with us the law is the same for
an Italian harlot and an English widow; and it may well be that in its niceties it shall be
found kinder to the former than to the latter. But the Earl had been mad, and the law said
that he was mad when he had made his will,--and the Italian woman went away, raging, into obscurity.

The Italian woman was conquered, and now the battle was open and free between the young Earl
and the claimant Countess. Applications were made on behalf of the Countess for funds from
the estate wherewith to prove the claim, and to a certain limited amount they were granted.
Such had been the life of the late Earl that it was held that the cost of all litigation resulting
from his misdeeds should be paid from his estate;--but ready money was wanted, immediate ready
money, to be at the disposal of the Countess to any amount needed by her agent, and this was
hardly to be obtained. By this time public sympathy ran almost entirely with the Earl. Though
it was acknowledged that the late lord was mad, and though it had become a cause of rejoicing
that the Italian woman had been sent away penniless, howling into obscurity, because of the
old man's madness, still it was believed that he had written the truth when he declared that
the marriage had been a mock marriage. It would be better for the English world that the young
Earl should be a rich man, fit to do honour to his position, fit to marry the daughter of a
duke, fit to carry on the glory of the English peerage, than that a woman, ill reputed in the
world, should be established as a Countess, with a daughter dowered with tens of thousands,
as to whom it was already said that she was in love with a tailor's son. Nothing could be more
touching, more likely to awaken sympathy, than the manner in which Josephine Murray had been
carried away in marriage, and then roughly told by the man who should have protected her from
every harshly blowing wind of heaven, that he had deceived her and that she was not his wife.
No usage to which woman had ever been subjected, as has been said before, was more adapted
to elicit compassion and energetic aid. But nineteen years had now passed by since the deed
was done, and the facts were forgotten. One energetic friend there still was,--or we may say
two, the tailor and his son Daniel. But public belief ran against the Countess, and nobody
who was anybody in the world would give her her title. Bets were laid, two and three to one
against her; and it was believed that she was an impostor. The Earl had all the glory of success
over his first opponent, and the loud boasting of self-confident barristers buoyed up his cause.

But loud-boasting barristers may nevertheless be wise lawyers, and the question of a compromise
was again mooted. If the lady would take thirty thousand pounds and vanish, she should have
the money clear of deduction, and all expenses should be paid. The amount offered was thought
to be very liberal, but it did not amount to the annual income that was at stake. It was rejected
with scorn. Had it been quadrupled, it would have been rejected with equal scorn. The loud-boasting
barristers were still confident; but--. Though it was never admitted in words still it was
felt that there might be a doubt. What if the contending parties were to join forces, if the
Countess-ship of the Countess were to be admitted, and the heiress-ship of the Lady Anna, and
if the Earl and the Lady Anna were to be united in holy wedlock? Might there not be a safe
solution from further difficulty in that way?

CHAPTER III.

LADY ANNA.

The idea of this further compromise, of this something more than compromise, of this half acknowledgment
of their own weakness, came from Mr. Flick, of the firm of Norton and Flick, the solicitors
who were employed in substantiating the Earl's position. When Mr. Flick mentioned it to Sir
William Patterson, the great barrister, who was at that time Solicitor-General and leading
counsel on behalf of Lord Lovel, Sir William Patterson stood aghast and was dismayed. Sir William
intended to make mince-meat of the Countess. It was said of him that he intended to cross-examine
the Countess off her legs, right out of her claim, and almost into her grave. He certainly
did believe her to be an impostor, who had not thought herself to be entitled to her name when
she first assumed it.

"I should be sorry, Mr. Flick, to be driven to think that anything of that kind could be expedient."

"It would make sure of the fortune to the family," said Mr. Flick.

"And what about our friend, the Countess?"

"Let her call herself Countess Lovel, Sir William. That will break no bones. As to the formality
of her own marriage, there can be no doubt about that."

"We can prove by Grogram that she was told that another wife was living," said Sir William.
Grogram was an old butler who had been in the old Earl's service for thirty years.

"I believe we can, Sir William; but--. It is quite clear that we shall never get the other
wife to come over and face an English jury. It is of no use blinking it. The gentleman whom
we have sent over doubts her altogether. That there was a marriage is certain, but he fears
that this woman is not the old Countess. There were two sisters, and it may be that this was
the other sister."

Sir William was a good deal dismayed, but he recovered himself. The stakes were so high that
it was quite possible that the gentleman who had been sent over might have been induced to
open his eyes to the possibility of such personation by overtures from the other side. Sir
William was of opinion that Mr. Flick himself should go to Sicily. He was not sure that he,
Sir William, her Majesty's Solicitor-General, would not make the journey in person. He was
by no means disposed to give way. "They tell me that the girl is no better than she should
be," he said to Mr. Flick.

"I don't think so bad as that of her," said Mr. Flick.

"Is she a lady,--or anything like a lady?"

"I am told she is very beautiful."

"I dare say;--and so was her mother before her. I never saw a handsomer woman of her age than
our friend the Countess. But I could not recommend the young lord to marry an underbred, bad
girl, and a bastard who claims to be his cousin,--and support my proposition merely on the
ground of her looks."

"Thirty-five thousand a year, Sir William!" pleaded the attorney.

"I hope we can get the thirty-five thousand a year for our client without paying so dear for them."

It had been presumed that the real Countess, the original Countess, the Italian lady whom the
Earl had married in early life, would be brought over, with properly attested documentary evidence
in her pocket, to prove that she was the existing Countess, and that any other Countess must
be either an impostor or a deluded dupe. No doubt the old Earl had declared, when first informing
Josephine Murray that she was not his wife, that his real wife had died during the few months
which had intervened since his mock marriage; but it was acknowledged on all sides, that the
old Earl had been a villain and a liar. It was no part of the duty of the young Earl, or of
those who acted for him, to defend the character of the old Earl. To wash that blackamoor white,
or even to make him whity-brown, was not necessary to anybody. No one was now concerned to
account for his crooked courses. But if it could be shown that he had married the lady in Italy,--as
to which there was no doubt,--and that the lady was still alive, or that she had been alive
when the second marriage took place, then the Lady Anna could not inherit the property which
had been freed from the grasp of the Italian mistress. But it seemed that the lady, if she
lived, could not be made to come. Mr. Flick did go to Sicily, and came back renewing his advice
to Sir William that Lord Lovel should be advised to marry the Lady Anna.

At this time the Countess, with her daughter, had moved their residence from Keswick up to
London, and was living in very humble lodgings in a small street turning out of the New Road,
near the Yorkshire Stingo. Old Thomas Thwaite had accompanied them from Cumberland, but the
rooms had been taken for them by his son, Daniel Thwaite, who was at this time foreman to a
somewhat celebrated tailor who carried on his business in Wigmore Street; and he, Daniel Thwaite,
had a bedroom in the house in which the Countess lodged. The arrangement was not a wise one,
as reports had already been spread abroad as to the partiality of the Lady Anna for the young
tailor. But how should she not have been partial both to the father and to the son, feeling
as she did that they were the only two men who befriended her cause and her mother's? As to
the Countess herself, she, perhaps, alone of all those who interested themselves in her daughter's
cause, had heard no word of these insinuations against her child. To her both Thomas and Daniel
Thwaite were dear friends, to repay whom for their exertions with lavish generosity,--should
the means to do so ever come within her reach,--was one of the dreams of her existence. But
she was an ambitious woman, thinking much of her rank, thinking much even of the blood of her
own ancestors, constantly urgent with her daughter in teaching her the duties and privileges
of wealth and rank. For the Countess never doubted that she would at last attain success. That
the Lady Anna should throw herself away upon Daniel Thwaite did not occur to her as a possibility.
She had not even dreamed that Daniel Thwaite would aspire to her daughter's hand. And yet every
shop-boy and every shop-girl in Keswick had been so saying for the last twelvemonth, and rumours
which had hitherto been confined to Keswick and its neighbourhood, were now common in London.
For the case was becoming one of the celebrated causes of the age, and all the world was talking
of the Countess and her daughter. No momentary suspicion had crossed the mind of the Countess
till after their arrival in London; and then when the suspicion did touch her it was not love
that she suspected,--but rather an unbecoming familiarity which she attributed to her child's
ignorance of the great life which awaited her. "My dear," she said one day when Daniel Thwaite
had left them, "you should be less free in your manner with that young man."

"What do you mean, mamma?" said the daughter, blushing.

"You had better call him Mr. Thwaite."

"But I have called him Daniel ever since I was born."

"He always calls you Lady Anna."

"Sometimes he does, mamma."

"I never heard him call you anything else," said the Countess, almost with indignation. "It
is all very well for the old man, because he is an old man and has done so much for us."

"So has Daniel;--quite as much, mamma. They have both done everything."

"True; they have both been warm friends; and if ever I forget them may God forget me. I trust
that we may both live to show them that they are not forgotten. But it is not fitting that
there should exist between you and him the intimacy of equal positions. You are not and cannot
be his equal. He has been born to be a tailor, and you are the daughter and heiress of an Earl."

These last words were spoken in a tone that was almost awful to the Lady Anna. She had heard
so much of her father's rank and her father's wealth,--rank and wealth which were always to
be hers, but which had never as yet reached her, which had been a perpetual trouble to her,
and a crushing weight upon her young life, that she had almost learned to hate the title and
the claim. Of course it was a part of the religion of her life that her mother had been duly
married to her father. It was beyond a doubt to her that such was the case. But the constant
battling for denied rights, the assumption of a position which could not be attained, the use
of titles which were simply ridiculous in themselves as connected with the kind of life which
she was obliged to lead,--these things had all become odious to her. She lacked the ambition
which gave her mother strength, and would gladly have become Anna Murray or Anna Lovel, with
a girl's ordinary privilege of loving her lover, had such an easy life been possible to her.

In person she was very lovely, less tall and robust than her mother had been, but with a sweeter,
softer face. Her hair was less dark, and her eyes were neither blue nor bold. But they were
bright and soft and very eloquent, and when laden with tears would have softened the heart,--almost
of her father. She was as yet less powerful than her mother, both in body and mind, but probably
better calculated to make a happy home for a husband and children. She was affectionate, self-denying,
and feminine. Had that offer of compromise for thirty, twenty, or for ten thousand pounds been
made to her, she would have accepted it willingly,--caring little for her name, little even
for fame, so that she might have been happy and quiet, and at liberty to think of a lover as
are other girls. In her present condition, how could she have any happy love? She was the Lady
Anna Lovel, heir to a ducal fortune,--but she lived in small close lodgings in Wyndham Street,
New Road. She did not believe in the good time coming as did her mother. Their enemy was an
undoubted Earl, undoubtedly owner of Lovel Grange of which she had heard all her life. Would
it not be better to take what the young lord chose to give them and to be at rest? But she
did not dare to express such thoughts to her mother. Her mother would have crushed her with a look.

"I have told Mr. Thwaite," the mother said to her daughter, "what we were saying this morning."

"About his son?"

"Yes,--about his son."

"Oh, mamma!"

"I was bound to do so."

"And what did he say, mamma?"

"He did not like it, and told me that he did not like it;--but he admitted that it was true.
He admitted that his son was no fitting intimate for Lady Anna Lovel."

"What should we have done without him?"

"Badly indeed; but that cannot change his duty, or ours. He is helping us to struggle for that
which is our own; but he would mar his generosity if he put a taint on that which he is endeavouring
to restore to us."

"Put a taint, mamma!"

"Yes;--a taint would rest upon your rank if you as Lady Anna Lovel were familiar with Daniel
Thwaite as with an equal. His father understands it, and will speak to him."

"Mamma, Daniel will be very angry."

"Then will he be very unreasonable;--but, Anna, I will not have you call him Daniel any more."

CHAPTER IV.

THE TAILOR OF KESWICK.

Old Thomas Thwaite was at this time up in London about the business of the Countess, but had
no intention of residing there. He still kept his shop in Keswick, and still made coats and
trousers for Cumberland statesmen. He was by no means in a condition to retire from business,
having spent the savings of his life in the cause of the Countess and her daughter. Men had
told him that, had he not struck the Earl in the yard of the Crown at Keswick, as horses were
being brought out for the lord's travelling carriage, ample provision would have been made
by the rich old sinner for his daughter. That might have been so, or might not, but the saying
instigated the tailor to further zeal and increased generosity. To oppose an Earl, even though
it might be on behalf of a Countess, was a joy to him; to set wrong right, and to put down
cruelty and to relieve distressed women was the pride of his heart,--especially when his efforts
were made in antagonism to one of high rank. And he was a man who would certainly be thorough
in his work, though his thoroughness should be ruinous to himself. He had despised the Murrays,
who ought to have stuck to their distant cousin, and had exulted in his heart at thinking that
the world would say how much better and truer had been the Keswick tailor than the well-born
and comparatively wealthy Scotch relations. And the poets of the lakes, who had not as yet
become altogether Tories, had taken him by the hand and praised him. The rights of the Countess
and the wrongs of the Countess had become his life. But he still kept on a diminished business
in the north, and it was now needful that he should return to Cumberland. He had heard that
renewed offers of compromise were to be made,--though no idea of the proposed marriage between
the distant cousins had been suggested to him. He had been discussing the question of some
compromise with the Countess when she spoke to him respecting his son; and had recommended
that certain terms should, if possible, be effected. Let the money be divided, on condition
that the marriage were allowed. There could be no difficulty in this if the young lord would
accede to such an arrangement, as the marriage must be acknowledged unless an adverse party
should bring home proof from Italy to the contrary. The sufficiency of the ceremony in Applethwaite
Church was incontestable. Let the money be divided, and the Countess be Countess Lovel, and
Lady Anna be the Lady Anna to all the world. Old Thomas Thwaite himself had seemed to think
that there would be enough of triumph in such a settlement. "But the woman might afterwards
be bribed to come over and renew her claim," said the Countess. "Unless it be absolutely settled
now, they will say when I am dead and gone that my daughter has no right to her name." Then
the tailor said that he would make further inquiry how that might be. He was inclined to think
that there might be a decision which should be absolute, even though that decision should be
reached by compromise between the now contending parties.

Then the Countess had said her word about Daniel Thwaite the son, and Thomas Thwaite the father
had heard it with ill-concealed anger. To fight against an Earl on behalf of the Earl's injured
wife had been very sweet to him, but to be checked in his fight because he and his were unfit
to associate with the child of that injured wife, was very bitter. And yet he had sense to
know that what the Countess said to him was true. As far as words went, he admitted the truth;
but his face was more eloquent than his words, and his face showed plainly his displeasure.

"It is not of you that I am speaking," said the Countess, laying her hand upon the old man's
sleeve.

"Daniel is, at any rate, fitter than I," said the tailor. "He has been educated, and I never was."

"He is as good as gold. It is not of that I speak. You know what I mean."

"I know very well what you mean, Lady Lovel."

"I have no friend like you, Mr. Thwaite;--none whom I love as I do you. And next to you is
your son. For myself, there is nothing that I would not do for him or you;--no service, however
menial, that I would not render you with my own hands. There is no limit to the gratitude which
I owe you. But my girl is young, and if this burden of rank and wealth is to be hers,--it is
proper that she do honour to it."

"And it is not honourable that she should be seen speaking--to a tailor?"

"Ah,--if you choose to take it so!"

"How should I take it? What I say is true. And what you say is true also. I will speak to Daniel."
But she knew well, as he left her, that his heart was bitter against her.

The old man did speak to his son, sitting with him up in the bed-room over that which the Countess
occupied. Old Thomas Thwaite was a strong man, but his son was in some respects stronger. As
his father had said of him, he had been educated,--or rather instructed; and instruction leads
to the power of thinking. He looked deeper into things than did his father, and was governed
by wider and greater motives. His father had been a Radical all his life, guided thereto probably
by some early training, and made steadfast in his creed by feelings which induced him to hate
the pretensions of an assumed superiority. Old Thwaite could not endure to think that one man
should be considered to be worthier than another because he was richer. He would admit the
riches, and even the justice of the riches,--having been himself, during much of his life,
a rich man in his own sphere; but would deny the worthiness; and would adduce, in proof of
his creed, the unworthiness of certain exalted sinners. The career of the Earl Lovel had been
to him a sure proof of the baseness of English aristocracy generally. He had dreams of a republic
in which a tailor might be president or senator, or something almost noble. But no rational
scheme of governance among mankind had ever entered his mind, and of pure politics he knew
no more than the journeyman who sat stitching upon his board.

