The annual losses which our people sustain under the separate State bank system, in the rate
of exchange, is enormous, whilst the constant and ever-recurring insolvency of so many of these
institutions, accompanied by eight general bank suspensions of specie payment, have, from time
to time, spread ruin and devastation throughout the country. I believe that, in a period of
twenty years, the saving to the people of the United States, by the substitution of the new
system, would reach a sum very nearly approaching the total amount of our public debt, and
in time largely exceeding it. As a question, then, of national wealth, as well as national
unity, I believe the gain to the country in time by the adoption of the new system, will far
exceed the cost of the war. It was the State bank system in the rebel States that furnished
to secession mainly the sinews of war. These banks are now generally insolvent, but, if the
banking system now proposed had been in existence, and the circulating medium in all the States
had been an uniform national currency based entirely on the stocks of the United States, the
rebellion could never have occurred. Every bank, and all its stockholders, and all the holders
of the stock and notes of all the banks, embracing our whole paper currency, would have been
united to the Government by an interest so direct and universal, that rebellion would have
been impossible. Hamilton and Madison, Story and Marshall, and the Supreme Court of the United
States, have declared that to the Federal Government belongs the 'entire regulation of the
currency of the country.' That power they have now exercised in the adoption of the system
recommended by the Secretary. Our whole currency, in coin as well as paper, will soon, now,
all be national, which is the most important measure for the security and perpetuity of the
Union, and the welfare of the people, ever adopted by Congress. It is to Congress that the
Constitution grants the exclusive power 'to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the States;' and a sound, uniform currency, in coin, or convertible on demand into coin, is
one of the most essential instrumentalities connected with trade and exchanges.

After these preliminary remarks, I shall proceed with the discussion of the subject in my next
letter.

R.J. WALKER.

VOICELESS SINGERS.

  A bird is singing in the leaves
    That quiver on yon linden tree;
  So soft and clear the song he sings,
    The roses listen dreamily.

  The crimson buds in clusters cling;
    The full, sweet roses blush with bloom;
  And, white as ocean's swaying foam,
    The lily trembles from the gloom.

  I know not why that happy strain
    That dies so softly on the air,
  That perfect utterance of joy,
    Has left a strange, dim sadness there.

  Perchance the song, so silver-sweet,
    The roses' regal blossoms shrine:
  Perchance the bending lily droops,
    And trembles, 'neath its thrill divine.

  It may be that all beauteous things,
    Though lacking music's perfect key,
  Have with their inmost being twined
    The hidden chords of melody.

  So pine they all, to hear again
    The song they know, but cannot sing;
  The living utterance, full and clear,
    Whose voiceless breathings round them cling.

  Yet still those accents waken not;
    The bird has left the linden tree;
  A summer silence falls once more
    Upon the listening rose and me.

A DETECTIVE'S STORY.

The following is a true story, by a late well-known member of the Detective service, and, with,
the exception of some names of persons and places, is given precisely as he himself related it.

Late one Friday afternoon, in the latter part of November, 18--, I was sent for by the chief
of the New York Police, and was told there was a case for me. It was a counterfeiting affair.
Notes had been forged on a Pennsylvania bank; two men had been apprehended, and were in custody.
The first, Springer, had turned State's evidence on his accomplice; who, according to his account,
was the prime mover in the business. This man, Daniel Hawes by name, had transferred the notes
to a third party, of whom nothing had been ascertained except that he was a young man, wrote
a beautiful hand, and had been in town the Monday before. He was the man I was to catch.

It was sundown when I left the superintendent's office. I had not much to guide me: there were
hundreds of young men who wrote a beautiful hand, and had been in town last Monday. But I did
not trouble myself about what I did not know: I confined myself to what I did know. Upon reflection
I thought it probable that my man had been in intimate relations with Hawes for the last few
days, probably since Monday last, although it was not known that he had been in town since
that day. He might not be a resident in the city; but I decided to seek him here--since, if
he had not left town before the arrest of Springer and Hawes, he would not just now run the
risk of falling into the hands of the police by going to any railroad station or steamer wharf.

I determined, therefore, to follow up the track of Hawes, and thereby, if possible, strike
that of his confederate--which was, in fact, all that could be done.

Hawes was a small broker. He lived in Eighteenth street, and had an office in Wall street.

He lived too far up town, I thought, to go home every day to his dinner; he went then, most
probably, always to the same eating house, and one not far from his office.

After inquiring at several restaurants near by, I came to one in Liberty street, where, on
asking if Mr. Hawes was in the habit of dining there, the waiter said yes.

'Have you seen a young man here with him, lately?' I inquired.

'No--no one in particular,' replied the waiter.

'Are you sure of it? Come, think.'

After scratching his head for a moment, he said:

'Yes, there has been a young man here speaking to him once or twice.'

'How did he look?'

'He was short, and had black hair and eyes.'

'Who is he? What does he do?'

'He is clerk to Mr. L----, the linen importer.'

'Where does Mr. L---- live?'

The waiter did not know. Looking into a Directory, I ascertained his residence to be in Fourteenth
street. The stores by this time were closed, so I went immediately to Mr. L----'s house, and
asked to see him. He was at dinner.

'I am sorry to disturb him,' said I to the servant, 'but I wish to speak with him a moment
on a matter of importance, and cannot wait.'

Mr. L---- came out, evidently annoyed at the intrusion.

'Have you such a person in your employment?' said I, describing him.

'No, sir, I have not.'

'You had such a person?'

'I have not now.'

'Did you discharge him?'

'Yes.'

'Why?'

'What business is that of your's?' he asked, rather huffily.

'My name, sir, is M----, of the police. I am after this fellow, that's all. Tell me, if you
please, why you discharged him?'

'Oh, I beg your pardon,' said Mr. L----. 'I took you for one of his rascally associates. I
discharged him a week or ten days ago. He was a dissipated, good-for-nothing fellow.'

'Was he your bookkeeper?'

'No, he was a junior clerk.'

'Have you any of his handwriting that you can show me?'

He fumbled in a side pocket and drew out a pocketbook from which he took a memorandum of agreement,
or some paper of the sort, to the bottom of which a signature was attached as witness.

'That's his writing,' said he.

It was a stiff schoolboy's scrawl.

This was not my man then. I apologized to Mr. L---- for the trouble I had given him, and withdrew.

Lost time, said I to myself. I am on the wrong track. I must back to the eating house, and
begin the chase again from the point where I left off. I saw the same waiter.

'I want you to think again,' said I, 'Try hard to remember whether there was never any other
man here with Hawes on any occasion.'

After reflecting for a little while, he said he thought he recollected his going up stairs
not long ago, with another man, to a private room.

'Did you wait on him yourself at the time you speak of?' I asked.

'No--most likely it was Joe Harris.'

'Will you send for him, if you please.'

Joe Harris came.

'You waited on Mr. Hawes a few days ago, when he dined with another gentleman in a private
room up stairs, didn't you?'

'Yes, sir.'

'Who was that other man?'

'He is a young man who is clerk in a livery stable in Sullivan street.'

'What are his looks?'

'He is tall and light haired.'

'Do you know his name?'

'His name is Edgar.'

I hurried up to Sullivan street, went into the first livery stable I came to, inquired for
the proprietor, and asked him if he had a young man in his stable of the name of Edgar.

He said he had.

'Does he keep your books?'

'Yes, he takes orders for me.'

'Let me see some of his handwriting, if you please.'

He stepped back into the office and took from a desk a little order book. I opened it: there
were some orders, hastily written, no doubt, but in a hand almost like beautiful copperplate.

This was my man--I felt nearly certain of it. I asked where he lived, and was told, with his
mother, a widow woman, at such a number in Hudson street. I started for the place. It was now
nine o'clock. Arriving at the house, I rang the bell. It was answered by a servant girl.

'Does Mr. Edgar live here?' I inquired.

'Yes, sir.'

'Is he at home?'

'No, sir.'

'When will he come home?'

'I don't know.'

'Does he sleep here?'

'Sometimes he does, and sometimes he doesn't.'

'Where is he likely to be found? I should like to see him.'

She said she really didn't know, unless perhaps he might be at a billiard saloon not far off.
I went there. A noisy crowd was around the bar. I looked around the room and closely scrutinized
every face. No tall, light-haired young man was there. I asked the barkeeper if Mr. Edgar had
been there that evening. He said no, he had not seen anything of him for two or three days,
I asked him if there was any other place he knew of that Edgar frequented, and was told he
went a good deal to a bowling alley in West Broadway near Duane street. Not much yet, I thought,
as I hurried on to West Broadway. Descending a few steps into a basement, I entered a sort
of vestibule or office to the bowling saloon. 'Has Mr. Edgar been here this evening?' I inquired
of the man in attendance.

'He is here now,' was the reply, 'in the other room, through that door.'

I passed through the door indicated into the bowling alley, and accosted the marker:

'Is Mr. Edgar here?'

'He has just gone--fifteen minutes ago.'

'Do you know where he went to?'

'Seems to me some of them said something about going to the Lafayette Theatre.'

I am on his track now--I said to myself--only fifteen minutes behind him. I bent my steps to
the theatre--taking with, me a comrade in the police service, whom I had encountered as I was
leaving the saloon. We hurried on with the utmost rapidity, but on reaching the theatre, found,
to my disgust, what I had already feared, that the play was over, and the theatre just closed.

'Better give it up for to-night,' said my companion; 'we know enough about him now, and can
take up the search again to-morrow.'

'It won't do, Clarke,' said I, 'we have inquired for him at too many places. Stay, I've a notion
he may be heard of at some of these oyster cellars hereabouts.'

I went down into one of them, and asked if a tall young man with light hair had been there
that evening. A tall young man with light hair and mustache had come in from the theatre with
a lady, and had just left. I asked my informant if he knew the lady. She was a Miss Kearney,
he answered.

'What?' I continued, 'didn't her sister marry the actor Levison?'

'Yes, the same person.'

'He lives in Walker street, near the Bowery, I believe?'

'Yes, I think so,' replied the man.

I considered a moment. Of course no one could tell me where Edgar had gone to; but I was tolerably
certain he had gone home with the girl. Where she lived I did not know, but I thought it probable
the actor could tell me. So we started on to Walker street. There are--or were at the time
I speak of--several boarding houses in Walker street. We passed one or two three-story houses
with marble steps. 'Shall I ask along here?' said Clarke. 'No,' I answered; 'poor actors don't
board there; we must look for him farther on.' We kept on, and after a little while, we found
one that seemed to me to be likely to be the house we were looking for. I rang the bell and
inquired for Mr. Levison. He was gone to bed. It was now twelve o'clock. I desired the man
that opened the door to tell him that some one was below who wished to see him immediately.
He soon returned, saying that Mr. Levison was in bed, and could not be disturbed: I must leave
my business, or call again next day.

I thought it necessary to frighten him a little; so I sent up word that I was an officer of
police, and he must come down instantly, or I should go up and fetch him. In a few moments
the actor made his appearance, terribly frightened. Before I could say anything he began to
pour out such a flood of questions and asseverations that I could not get a word in: What did
I want with him? I had come to the wrong man; he hadn't been doing anything, etc., etc. 'I
don't want you,' I began--but it was of no use, I could not stop him; his character was excellent,
anybody would vouch for him; I ought to be more sure what I was about before I roused people
from their beds at midnight, etc., etc. His huddled words and apprehensive looks made me suspect
there was something wrong with him; but it was no concern of mine then. I seized him by the
shoulder, and ordered him to be quiet.

'Don't utter another word,' said I, 'except to answer my questions, or I'll carry you off and
lock you up. I have not come to arrest you. I only want to ask you a few questions. Haven't
you a sister-in-law named Miss Kearney?'

'Yes, what do you want with her?'

'I am not going to do her any harm. I only want to know where she lives.'

'Oh I she lives in ---- street.'

'Do you know the number?'

'Goodness, yes; it is number 34. I have boarded there myself until only a little while ago.'

'Indeed!'

'Yes, I have got a dead-latch key somewhere about.'

'The deuce you have! Give it to me; it is just what I want.'

'Give you a dead-latch key! a pretty notion!'

'I wouldn't give it to any man--not to all the detective squad in New York.'

'Look here, my friend, I am M----, pretty well known in this town. I have a good many opportunities
in the course of my business to do people good turns, and not a few to do them ill turns. It
is a convenient vocation to pay off scores, particularly to persons of your sort. If you will
give me that key, I'll make it worth your while the first chance I have. If you don't, you'll
be sorry; that's all."

I gave him a significant look as I concluded. He looked me in the face a minute--as if to see
how much I meant, or if I suspected anything; then turned and ran up stairs. In a few moments
he came down, and handed me the key. I took it with satisfaction.

'Now,' said I, 'you'll have no objections to telling me where your sister-in-law's room in
the house is.'

'Third story, back room, second door to the left from the head of the stairs.'

'Thank you, good night.'

We walked rapidly to ---- street, and reaching the house, I stopped a moment to examine my
pistols, by the street lamp, and then softly opened the door. Clarke and I stepped in, and
I shut the door.

Leaving my comrade in the hall, I crept noiselessly up stairs, and tapped at the door of the room.

'Who is there?' called out a woman's voice. 'Open the door,' I replied, 'and I'll tell you
what I want.'

'You can't come in. I have gone to bed.'

'Oh, well, I am a married man; I'll do you no harm; but you must let me in, or I shall force
the door.'

After a moment's delay the door was opened by a young woman in a morning wrapper, who stood
as if awaiting an explanation of the intrusion. I passed by her, and walked up to a young man
sitting in a low chair by the fire, and tapping him on the shoulder, said: 'You are my prisoner.'
He raised his head and looked up. 'Why, Bill,' I exclaimed, 'is this you? I have been looking
for you all night under a wrong name. If I had known it was you, I'd have caught you in an
hour.' And so I would.

It is only necessary to say further, that he was the man I was set to catch. I may add, however,
that a large amount of the counterfeit notes, and the plates on which they were printed, were
secured, and the criminal sent to Sing Sing in due course of law.

LITERARY NOTICES.

FLOWER FOR THE PARLOUR AND GARDEN. By EDWARD SPRAGUE RAND, jr. Boston: J.E. Tilton & Co. Price
$2.50.

J.E. Tilton & Co. are the publishers of the series of photographic and lithographic cards of
flowers, leaves, mosses, butterflies, hummingbirds, &c., noted for their beauty of execution.
'Flowers are so universally loved, and accepted everywhere as necessities of the moral life,
that whatever can be done to render their cultivation easy, and to bring them to perfection
in the vicinity of, or within, the household, must be regarded as a benefaction.' This benefit
our author has certainly conferred upon us. The gift is from one who must himself have loved
these lily cups and floral bells of perfume, and will be warmly welcomed by all who prize their
loveliness. In the pages of this book may be found accurate and detailed information on all
subjects likely to be of interest to their cultivators. We give a list of the contents of its
chapters, to show how wide a field it covers. Chap. I. The Green-House and Conservatory. Chap.
II. Window Gardening. Chap. III, IV, V, VI. Plants for Window Gardening. VII. Cape Bulbs. VIII.
Dutch Bulbs. IX. The Culture of the Tube Rose. X. The Gladiolus and its culture. XI. How to
force flowers to bloom in Winter. XII. Balcony Gardening. XIII. The Wardian Case and Winter
Garden. XIV. Stocking and Managing Wardian Cases. XV. Hanging Baskets and Suitable Plants,
and Treatment of Ivy. XVI. The Waltonian Case. XVII. The Aquarium and Water Plants. XVIII.
How to grow specimen Plants. XIX. Out Door Gardening, Hot Beds. XX. The Garden. XXI. Small
Trees and Shrubs. XXII. Hardy Herbaceous Plants. XXIII. Hardy Annuals. XXIV. Bedding Plants.
XXV. Hardy and half hardy Garden Bulbs. XXVI. Spring Flowers and where to find them.

The appearance of this book is singularly elegant, its tinted paper soft and creamy, its type
clear and beautiful, its quotations evince poetic culture, and its illustrations are exquisitely
graceful. It is a real pleasure to turn over its attractive leaves with the names of loved
old flower-friends greeting us on every page, and new claimants with new hopes and types of
beauty constantly starting up before us. What with Waltonian cases, hanging baskets, Wardian
cases, &c., our ladies may adorn their parlors with artistic taste with these fragrant, fragile,
rainbow-hued children of Nature. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. For sale by D. Appleton & Co., New York.

A book which should be in the hands of all who love their country. The Sanitary Commission
deserve the undying gratitude of the nation. Their organization is one of pure benevolence;
the men and women working effectively through its beneficent channel have given evidence of
some of the noblest and divinest attributes of the human soul. It is difficult to form any
idea of the magnitude and importance of the work the commission has achieved. 'Never till every
soldier whose last moments it has soothed, till every soldier whose flickering life it has
gently steadied into continuance, whose waning reason it has softly lulled into quiet, whose
chilled blood it has warmed into healthful play, whose failing frame it has nourished into
strength, whose fainting heart it has comforted with sympathy,--never, until every full soul
has poured out its story of gratitude and thanksgiving, will the record be complete; but long
before that time, ever since the moment that its helping hand was first held forth, comes the
Blessed Voice: 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me.''

'The blessings of thousands who were ready to perish, and tens of thousands who love their
country and their kind, rest upon those who originated, and those who sustain this noble work.'

This book is full of vivid interest, of true incident, of graphic sketches, of loyalty, patriotism,
and self-abnegation, whether of men or of noble women, and recommends itself to all who love
and would fain succor the human race.

AUSTIN ELLIOT. BY HENRY KINGSLEY, Author of Ravenshoe, etc. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. For sale
by D. Appleton & Co. New York.

A graphic novel of considerable ability, and more than usual interest. The tone is highly moral
throughout. The lessons on duelling are excellent. Would that our young men would lay them
to heart! The characters are, many of them, well drawn and sustained--we confess to a sincere
affection for the Highlander, Gil Macdonald, and the Scotch sheep-dog, Robin. Many of the scenes
in which they appear are full of simple and natural pathos.

A suggestive book on an important subject. The writer assumes that 'there are laws of hereditary
transmission in the mental and moral, as well as the physical constitution. Precisely what
these laws are, she does not assume to state. Such as are well known will however be helpful
to all, and will facilitate the discovery of those yet hidden from us. Women, who bear such
an important part in parentage, should be the most clear-sighted students of nature in these
things. It is to woman that humanity must look for the abatement of many frightful evils, malformation,
idiocy, insanity, &c., yet the principles pertaining to the knowledge of her own duties and
powers, which ought to be a part of the instruction of every woman, are rarely placed before
her. Much that pertains to the same phenomena among the lower animals may properly constitute
a part of her studies in natural history; but with the laws which govern the most momentous
of all social effects--the moral and mental constitution of individuals composing society--with
the gravest of possible results to herself--the embodiment of power and weakness, capacity
or incapacity, worth or worthlessness in her own offspring, she is forbidden all acquaintance.
Yet when she assumes the duties and responsibilities of maternity, such knowledge would be
more valuable to her and to those dearest to her, than all of the treasures of the gold-bearing
lands, if poured at her feet.'

The laws of hereditary transmission make the staple of this book. It is written by a lady,
and will commend itself to all interested in this subject. Pearl, in the Scarlet Letter, and
Elsie Venner, are artistic exemplifications of such disregarded truths.

VICTOR HUGO, by a Witness of his Life: Madame HUGO. Translated from the French, by CHARLES
EDWIN WILBOUR, translator of 'Les Miserables.' Carleton, publisher, 413 Broadway, New York.

A biography of a remarkable man, written by a constant observer of his actions, almost a second
self, can scarcely fail to prove interesting. In this case the interest is increased by its
close connection with a popular novel. Indeed, the readers of 'Les Miserables' will be astonished
to find what a flood of light is thrown upon that master work by this charming life-history
of its author. Marius is but a free variation of Victor Hugo himself. In Joly, the old school-mate
of the Pension Cordier, the author of Jean Valjean becomes closely acquainted with a real galley
slave. In short, the great romance is a part of the life of Victor Hugo, and cannot be fully
understood without the biography--its completion.'

LIFE AND TIMES OF SIR WILLIAM JOHNSON, BARONET.

J. MUNSELL, 78 State street, Albany, announces for publication by subscription, 'The Life and
Times of Sir William Johnson, Baronet.' The work is by William L. Stone, son of Colonel Stone,
well known as editor and biographer. The materials of this Life were derived from original
papers furnished by the family of Sir William, from his own diary, and other sources which
have never before been consulted. The work was begun by the late William L. Stone, has been
completed by his son, and with the Lives of Brant and Red Jacket, brings down the history of
the Six Nations and their relations with Great Britain, from 1560 to 1824. The edition will
be very nearly confined to the number subscribed for. Price $5, payable on delivery.

Sir William Johnson was Superintendent of Indian Affairs in this country before the Revolution,
was distinguished in Colonial history, and active in the French and Indian war. His life was
one of romantic interest and vicissitude. The work is highly spoken of by the literati who
have seen the advance sheets. Jared Sparks, George Bancroft, F. Parkman, G.W. Curtis, Lewis
Cass, &c., testify to its interest and historical accuracy. From the well-known ability of
its author, it may be safely and highly commended to the reading and thinking public. Philadelphia:
J.W. Daughaday, publisher, 1308 Chestnut street.

CAPTAIN JOHN J. GEER was, before the war, a minister of the Methodist Church in Ohio, was taken
prisoner before the battle of Shiloh, in a skirmish with Beauregard's pickets, passed some
months in rebel prisons, made his escape, and pleasantly tells the story of his adventures.
He reports that the large slave-holders and the wretched clay-eaters are all Secessionists,
but that a large middle class, people who own but few slaves and till their own fields, are
mostly true to the Union, in the parts of the South he visited. The book is one of incident,
contains many curious pictures of life and character, and will address itself to a large class
of readers.

THE AMBER GODS, AND OTHER STORIES. By Harriet Elizabeth Prescott. Ticknor & Fields, Boston.
For sale by D. Appleton & Co., New York.

The many readers of Miss Prescott will be glad to welcome the present collection of her very
popular tales. It contains: The Amber Gods. In a Cellar. Knitting Sale-Socks. Circumstance.
Desert Lands. Midsummer and May. The South Breaker.

Few writers have attained distinction and recognition so immediately as Miss Prescott. Her
fancy is brilliant, her style glowing, and culture and varied information mark the products
of her pen.

PHILIP VAN ARTEVELDE; a Dramatic Romance. Ticknor & Fields, Boston. For sale by D. Appleton
& Co., New York.

An historical romance, cast in a dramatic and rhythmical form, by Henry Taylor. It has been
too long known to the community to require any commendation at the present date. It has gone
through many editions in England. We are glad to see it in the convenient and pleasant form
of Ticknor's "Blue and Gold," so well known to American readers.

THE BRITISH AMERICAN; a Colonial Magazine. Published monthly by Messrs. Rollo & Adam, 61 King
street, Toronto, Canada West.

The articles of this magazine are of varied interest, generally well written and able. "What
is Spectrum Analysis?" given by the Editor in the August number, is a contribution of research
and merit.

THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER. Boston: By the proprietors, at Walker, Wise & Co.'s, 245 Washington street.

Contents: Tertullian and Montanism. The Reality of Fiction. Rome in the Middle Age. Zschokke's
Religious Meditations. Henry James on Creation. Loyalty in the West. Altar, Pulpit, and Platform,
A Month of Victory and its Results. Review of Current Literature. Theology. Illinois Central
Railroad, Chicago, Ill.

THE

CONTINENTAL

MONTHLY.

DEVOTED TO

Literature and National Policy.

The Defence and Evacuation of Winchester. By Hon. F.P.
  Stanton,                                                  481

The Two Southern Mothers. By Isabella MacFarlane,           490

Diary of Frances Krasinska,                                 491

November. By E.W.C.,                                         500

The Assizes of Jerusalem. By Prof. Andrew Ten Brook,        501

Letters to Professor S.F.B. Morse. By Rev. Dr. Henry,       514

Buckle, Draper, and the Law of Human Development. By
  Edward B. Freeland,                                       529

Treasure Trove,                                             545

Matter and Spirit. By Lieut. E. Phelps. With Reply of Hon.
  F.P. Stanton,                                             546

Extraterritoriality in China. By Dr. Macgowan,              556

Reason, Rhyme, and Rhythm. By Mrs. Martha W. Cook,          567

The Lions of Scotland. By W. Francis Williams,              584

We Two. By Clarence Butler,                                 591

Patriotism and Provincialism.