    Where, where is Argyle now, his kinsmen to rally?
    Where, where is the chieftain with timorous soul?
    On Linnhe's grey waters he crouched in his galley,
    And saw as a traitor the battle blast roll:—
    Ungrasped was the hilt of his broadsword, still sleeping,
    Unheard was his voice in the moment of need;
    Secure from the rage of fierce foemen, death-sweeping,
    He sought not by valour, his clansmen to lead.
              Linnhe, in scornful shame,
              Hissed out his humbled name,
    As fast sped his boat on its flight-seeking course;
              Sunk was his pride and flown,
              Doomed then his breast to own
    A coward-scarred heart, ever lashed with remorse.

    SUNDERLAND.                                                WM. ALLAN.

Correspondence.

    [Open to all parties, influenced by none, except on religious
    discussions, which will not be allowed in these columns under
    any circumstances.]

TO THE EDITORS OF THE CELTIC MAGAZINE.

                         67 Rue de Richelieu, Paris, September 19, 1875.

DEAR SIRS,—I am glad to hear that you contemplate the foundation of a Celtic Magazine at Inverness.
It is very gratifying for the Celtic scholars on the Continent to see that the old spirit of
Celtic nationality has not died out in all the Celtic countries, and especially that a country
like the Highlands of Scotland—that may boast equally of the beauty of her mountains and glens,
and of the gallantry of her sons—will keep her language, literature, and nationality in honour.
The Gaelic Society of Inverness is doing much good already, but a Magazine can do even more,
by its regularly bringing news and instruction.

A wide field is open to you. The Gaelic literature, the history—political, military, religious,
social, economic, &c.—of the Scottish Gaels at home; the collecting of popular tunes, songs,
proverbs, sayings, and even games; the history and the development of Gaelic colonies and settlements
abroad; the history of Highland worthies, and also of Foreign worthies who are of Scotch descent
(I think, for instance, of Macdonald, one of the best marechaux of Napoleon I.), &c. Although
the other branches of the Celtic family be separated from the Scotch Gaels—the Irish by their
religion, the Welsh by their dialect, the French Bretons by their religion and their dialect
at the same time,—yet the moral, social, and literary state of these cousins of yours may form,
from time to time, interesting topics to patriotic Highland readers. The field of Celtic literature
extends far and wide, and awaits yet many reapers. You will not fail to make a rich harvest
in your poetic and patriotic Scotland; and at Inverness, in the middle of the Gaelic country,
you have the best opportunity of success.—I am, Dear Sirs, yours very faithfully,

                             H. GAIDOZ, Editor of the Revue Celtique.

THE OSSIANIC QUESTION.

                                    Altnacraig, Oban, September 20, 1875.

SIR,—In the last number of The Gaedheal, a Gaelic periodical which may be known to some of
your readers, I inserted a translation from the German of an essay on the authenticity of Macpherson's
Ossian, appended to a poetical translation of Fingal by Dr August Ebrard, Leipsic, 1868. My
object in doing this was to give Highlanders ignorant of German, as most of them unhappily
are, an opportunity of hearing what a learned German had to say on the character of the most
famous, though in my opinion far from the best, book in their language. I did not in the slightest
degree mean to indicate my own views as to this vexed question. I know too well the philological
conditions on which the solution of such a question depends to hazard any opinion at all upon
the subject in the present condition of my Celtic studies. I am happy, however, to find that
one good result has followed from the publication of this translation—a translation which,
by the way, only revised by me, but made by a young lady of great intellectual promise—viz.,
the receipt of a letter from the greatest living authority on the Ossianic question, I mean
John Campbell of Islay, traveller, geologist, and good fellow of the first quality. This letter,
which I enclose, the learned writer authorises me to print, with your permission, in your columns;
and I feel convinced you have seldom had a more valuable literary communication.—I am, &c.,

                                                     JOHN S. BLACKIE.

         *         *         *         *         *

                                   Conan House, Dingwall, September, 1875.

MY DEAR PROFESSOR BLACKIE,—In the last number of The Gael I find a translation by you from
a German essay, and a quotation from a German writer who calls Macpherson's Ossian "the most
magnificent mystification of modern times." The mists which surround this question need the
light of knowledge to shine from the sitter on that rising Gaelic chair which you have done
so much to uplift. In the meantime let me tell you three facts. On the 9th December 1872, I
found out that Jerome Stone's Gaelic collection had been purchased by Mr Laing of the Signet
Library, and that he had lent the manuscript to Mr Clerk of Kilmallie. On the 25th November
1872, I found a list of contents and three of the songs in the Advocates' Library, but too
late to print them. The learned German relied on Stone's missing manuscript as proof of the
antiquity of Macpherson's Ossian, because it was of older date. It contains versions of ten
heroic ballads, of which I had printed many versions in "Leabhar na Feinne." There is not one
line of the Gaelic printed in 1807 in those songs which I found. I presume that Mr Clerk would
have quoted Stone's collection made in 1755 if he had found anything there to support his view,
which is that Ossian's poems are authentic. Stone's translation is a florid English composition,
founded upon the simple old Gaelic ballad which still survives traditionally. I got the old
music from Mrs Mactavish at Knock, in Mull, last month. She learned it from a servant in Lorn,
who sung to her when she was a girl.

2d, The essayist relied upon a lost manuscript which was named "A Bolg Solair" (the great treasure.)
That designation seems to be a version of a name commonly given by collectors of Scotch and
Irish popular lore to their manuscripts. The name seems rather to mean "rubbish bag." The idea
was probably taken from the wallet of the wandering minstrel of the last century who sang for
his supper. A very great number of paper manuscripts of this kind are in Dublin and in the
British Museum. I own two; but not one of these, so far as I have been able to discover, contains
a line of the Gaelic Ossian printed in 1807, which one learned German believed to be old and
the other a mystification.

3d, The essayist relies upon the "Red Book." In 1873 Admiral Macdonald sent me the book, which
he had recovered. Mr Standish O'Grady helped me to read it, and translated a great part of
it in June and July 1874 in my house. It is a paper manuscript which does not contain one line
of Macpherson's Ossian. It does contain Gaelic poems by known authors, of which copies are
in other manuscripts preserved in Ireland. I do not question the merits of Ossian's poems.
Readers can judge. They are Scotch compositions, for the English is Macpherson's, and the Gaelic
is Scotch vernacular. A glance at old Gaelic, of which many samples are printed in late numbers
of the Parisian Revue Celtique, ought to convince any reader of Ossian that modern Scotch vernacular
Gaelic cannot possibly represent the language of St Patrick's time. I have hunted popular lore
for many years, and I have published five volumes. I have gathered twenty-one thick foolscap
volumes of manuscript. I have had able collectors at work in Scotland; I had the willing aid
of Stokes, Hennessy, Standish O'Grady, Crowe, and other excellent Irish scholars in ransacking
piles of Gaelic manuscripts in Dublin, London, Edinburgh, and elsewhere. I could never find
an uneducated Highlander who could repeat any notable part of the Gaelic poems which were circulated
gratis soon after 1807. Nobody ever has found one line of these poems in any known writing
older than James Macpherson. I agree with many speakers of Scotch Gaelic who have studied this
question. We hold that the Gaelic Ossian of 1807 is, on the face of it, a manifest translation
from English; and that the English was founded upon an imperfect acquaintance with genuine
old Scotch Gaelic ballads. These are still commonly sung. They are founded upon the mythical
history which still is traditionally known all over Scotland and Ireland. It was old when Keating
wrote; it was old when the Book of Leinster was written about 1130. It really is a strange
thing that so little should be known in Great Britain about this curious branch of British
literature. I suppose that no other country in Europe can produce uneducated peasants, fishers,
and paupers, who sing heroic ballads as old as 1130 and 1520, which have been orally preserved.
Some fragments about Cuchullin, which I have gathered can be traced in the Book of Leinster.
Many ballads which I have heard sung in the Scotch Isles were written by the Dean of Lismore
in 1520. By travelling to Tobermory, you may still hear Wm. Robertson, a weaver there, tell
the story of Cuchullin, and sing the song of "Diarmaid," the "Burning of the Fenian Women,"
and many other heroic ballads. I heard him sing them in 1872, when he said that he was eighty-seven.—I
am, yours very truly,

                                                       J. F. CAMPBELL.

         *         *         *         *         *

                                      Kilmallie Manse, September 25, 1875.

SIR,—There is no man living who has done so much for Gaelic literature as Mr Campbell, and,
just in proportion to my sense of the greatness of his services, is my reluctance to put myself,
even for a moment, in opposition to him. But his opinion on the Ossianic question, expressed
in his letter, constrains me to oppose him.

One word as to what he says about Jerome Stone's MS. Dr Laing kindly lent it to me, and it
is now in my possession. I referred to it frequently in my edition of Ossian, 1870. Had I known
that Mr Campbell wished to see it, I would gladly place it at his service. There is no mystification
about this MS.; and I am sorry to say that it will not turn the scale either way in the present
controversy.

But to the main point. Mr Campbell holds "that the Gaelic Ossian of 1807 is a manifest translation
from English." Dr Johnson expressed the same opinion more than a hundred years ago; but while
Mr Campbell can speak with a thousandfold the authority of the great moralist, who knew nothing
of Gaelic, yet even Mr Campbell submits no positive proofs to support his decision—no new fact
of any kind. As far as external evidence goes, he founds his opinion entirely on what is negative.
Now, I submit that the history of the case presents many undoubted facts all going to prove
the priority of the Gaelic to the English Ossian, and these facts must be disposed of before
Mr Campbell's conclusions can be adopted.

Let me say in one word that I do not for a moment pretend to solve the Ossianic mystery. Any
theory which has yet been proposed presents serious difficulties, but I maintain that Mr Campbell's
presents the greatest of all, and in the present state of our knowledge cannot be adopted.

For proof, I must submit a brief outline of facts certified in the report of the Highland Society
on the subject, and which, though they are undeniable, are often unaccountably overlooked in
the controversy.

1. It is the case that Macpherson, before publishing in English, got several Gaelic MSS., which
he acknowledged in his letters still extant, and which he showed to his friends; further, that
he asked and obtained the assistance of some of these friends—Captain Morison, Rev. Mr Gallie,
and, above all, Strathmashie—to translate them into English.

2. It is a most important fact that when challenged to produce his Gaelic MSS., he advertised
that they were deposited at his booksellers—Beckett & De Hondt, Strand, London—and offered
to publish them if a sufficient number of subscribers came forward. The booksellers certify
that his MSS. had lain for twelve months at their place of business.

3. It is a fact that several persons, well able to judge of the matter, and of unimpeachable
character, such as the Rev. Dr Macpherson, of Sleat; Rev. Mr Macleod, of Glenelg; Rev. Mr Macneill,
&c., &c., did, in 1763—that is, 44 years before the publication of the Gaelic Ossian—compare
Macpherson's English with Gaelic recited by various persons in their respective neighbourhoods.
They give the names of these persons, and they certify that they found the Gaelic poetry recited
by these, who never had any correspondence with Macpherson, to correspond in many instances—to
the extent of hundreds of lines—with his English. One very significant fact is brought out
in these certifications, that Gaelic was found to agree with Macpherson's English in cases
where he never gave Gaelic. The English Ossian contains various poems for which he never gave
Gaelic; but here Gaelic, corresponding to his English, is found in the mouths of people with
whom he never held any communication.

Now, what are we to say to all these things? Shall we believe that Macpherson advertised his
MSS. when he had none? The belief implies that he was insane, which we know was not the case.
And are we further to believe that such men as the above deliberately attested what they knew
to be false, and what, if false, might easily be proved to be so? It is impossible for a moment
to receive such a supposition.

But it is said these, though good men, were prejudiced, spoke loosely, and therefore are not
to be relied on in this enlightened and critical age. This, however, is assuming a great deal,
and in so doing is uncritical. Prejudice is at work in the nineteenth century even as it was
in the eighteenth. These men had far better opportunities of judging the matter than we have.
They give their judgment distinctly and decidedly, and I never yet saw any good reason for
setting that judgment aside.

I must add further, on the historic evidence, that several Gaelic pieces, and these among the
gems of Ossianic poetry, were published by Gillies in 1786; that some of these are found in
the Irvine MS. about 1800; that there is no proof of Macpherson having furnished any of these;
and that the genuineness of one of them, "The Sun Hymn," given seem to be beyond the possibility
of cavil.

From all this it appears to me undoubted that Macpherson began his work with Gaelic MSS., that
he founded his English on them, and that various portions of his work were known in several
quarters of the country forty years before he published his Gaelic. The subsequent disappearance
of all MSS. containing his Gaelic is very remarkable, and is much founded on by Mr Campbell.
But the history of literature affords various instances of the preservation of a book depending
on one solitary MS. The case of the great Niebelungen-Lied—unknown for centuries, and brought
to light through the accidental discovery of a MS.—is quite in point; and to come nearer home,
two years ago, only one perfect copy of the first Gaelic book ever printed, Bishop Carewell's
translation of John Knox's liturgy, was in existence. It may be, then, that when Macpherson
destroyed his Gaelic MSS. he destroyed all in which his poetry was to be found. Again, it is
asked, when Highlanders in the present day recite so many heroic ballads, why do they not recite
Macpherson's? I answer that there being now forgotten is no proof that they were never remembered.
A hundred years may obliterate many things among a people. The last hundred years have wrought
such obliterations in the Highlands of Scotland as to make it no cause of wonder that heroic
poetry then remembered should now be forgotten.

I must restrict myself to a very few words on the internal evidence—though it is on this the
question must be finally decided, if it ever is to be decided. As to the inference from comparing
the Gaelic and English, I am sorry to say that I am entirely at variance with Mr Campbell.
The more I examine the subject, the deeper is my conviction that the freeness of the Gaelic,
the fulness of its similes, and its general freshness incontestably prove it to be the original.
I would refer especially to the sea-pieces (e.g., Carhon, ll. 48-52.) In Gaelic they are vivid
and graphic—in English tame, and almost meaningless—a fact such as might naturally be expected
from the words of a true mariner being translated by a thoroughly "inland bred man" like Macpherson,
but absolutely irreconcilable with his having written the Gaelic. Mr Campbell himself in his
admirable work of the "West Highland Tales," vol. 4, p. 142, et seq., has some striking and
conclusive remarks on the internal evidence of the priority of the Gaelic to the English; and
I sincerely hope, when he considers them again, they will induce him to return to his first faith.

Much might be said on the structure of the Gaelic—especially the Gaelic of the 7th Book of
Temora, published by Macpherson in 1763, which differs widely from any other Gaelic that I
have met with; and much of the whole character of Ossian, whether Gaelic or English, being
so absolutely unlike all Macpherson's other compositions—many and well known; but I must conclude
by repeating that Mr Campbell's theory "makes confusion worse confounded"—in asking us to set
at nought the various facts which I have stated, demands a moral impossibility; and that whatever
light may be thrown on the subject from the new Celtic Chair, we must in the present state
of our knowledge admit Gaelic to be the original, and Macpherson to be the translator of the
Ossianic poems.—I am, &c.,

                                                ARCHIBALD CLERK, LL.D.

REMNANTS OF GAELIC POETRY.

THE name of Lachlan Macpherson, Esq. of Strathmashie, is well known to those who are conversant
with the dissertations on the poems of Ossian. About the year 1760 he accompanied his neighbour
and namesake, James Macpherson, Esq. of Belville, in his journey through the Highlands in search
of those poems, he assisted him in collecting them, and in taking them down from oral tradition,
and he transcribed by far the greater part of them from ancient manuscripts to prepare them
for the press, as stated by himself in a letter to Dr Hugh Blair of Edinburgh. He was beyond
all doubt a man of great powers of mind, and a Celtic poet of no mean order. He died at the
comparatively early age of forty years, greatly lamented by his contemporaries, leaving behind
him no written literary production.

Fragments of Mr Lachlan Macpherson's poetry, hitherto unpublished, will be acceptable to those
who have done so much of late to promote the interests of Celtic literature. In some of his
poems, composed in the sportive exercise of his poetic genius, he makes the same objects the
subjects of his praise and censure alternately. We give the following specimens:—

On the occasion of a marriage contract in his neighbourhood, the poet honoured the company
with his presence. The important business of the occasion having been brought to a close, the
bridegroom departed, but remembering that he had left on the table a bottle not quite empty,
he returned and took it with him. The poet, viewing this as an act of extreme meanness, addressed
the bridegroom as follows:—

    CAINEADH AN DOMHNULLAICH.

    'S toigh leam Dòmhnullach neo-chosdail
    O nach coltach e ri càch.
    'N uair bhios iadsan ag iarraidh fortain
    Bidh esan 'n a phrop aig fear càis
    Ma bha do mhàthair 'n a mnaoi chòir
    Cha do ghleidh i 'n leabaidh phòsda glan,
    Cha 'n 'eil cuid agad do Chloinn Dòmhnuill,
    'S Rothach no Ròsach am fear.
    'N uair a bhuail thu aig an uinneig
    Cha b' ann a bhuinnigeadh cliù,
    Dh' iarraidh na druaip bha 's a' bhotul,
    Mallachd fir focail a' d' ghiùr.

We give a free translation of the above into English, far inferior, however, to the Gaelic
original:—

    MACDONALD SATIRISED.

    I like to see a niggard man,
    One of the great Macdonald clan;
    When others are in quest of gain
    This man the needy will sustain.
    Your mother, if an honest dame,
    Has not retained her wedlock fame;
    No part is Mac from top to toe,
    You're either Rose or else Munro.
    When to the house you turned your face,
    Let it be told to your disgrace,
    'Twas for the dregs you had forgot,
    The Poet's curse be in your throat.

The bridegroom, as we may well believe, smarted under the chastisement administered to him.
He took an early opportunity of putting himself in the poet's way. Seeing Mr Macpherson riding
past his place one day, he went to meet him with a bottle and glass, and importunately begged
of him that he would have the goodness to say something now in his favour. Mr Macpherson complied
with the request. Sitting on horseback, and taking the glass in his hand, he pronounced the
ensuing eulogy on the bridegroom:—

    MOLADH AN DOMHNULLAICH.

    Bha na bàird riamh breugach, bòsdail,
    Beular sinn, gòrach, gun seadh,
    Lasgair gasd e Chloinn Dòmhnuill,
    Mac Ailein Mhòir as a Mhagh.
    Chuir e botul neo-ghortach a' m' dhorn,
    A chur iotadh mo sgòrnain air chùl,
    'S bàrd gun tùr a bh' air a' chòrdadh
    Nach do sheinn gu mòr a chliù.
    Ach tha 'n seòrs' ud uile cho caillteach,
    Cho mi-thaingeil, 's cho beag ciall,
    'S ma thig a' chuach idir o 'n ceann,
    Nach fiach e taing na fhuair iad riamh.

The above may be thus translated:—

    MACDONALD EULOGISED.

    The bards, as we have ever seen,
    Liars and flatterers have been;
    Boasting, with little cause to glory,
    So empty is their upper storey.
    Of Clan Macdonald this is one,
    Of Allan Mor of Moy the son;
    He brought to me a sonsy vessel
    To satiate my thirsty whistle.
    The poet proved himself unwise
    When him he did not eulogise.
    The bards—I own it with regret—
    Are a pernicious sorry set,
    Whate'er they get is soon forgot,
    Unless you always wet their throat.

Mr Macpherson had a dairymaid of the name of Flora, whom he described in abusive language in
a poem beginning,—

    Flòiri mhùgach, bhòtach, ghlùn-dubh.

He afterwards made amends for the offence he had given her by commending her in very flattering
terms. He represents her as a most useful dairymaid, and as a young woman of surpassing beauty,
who had many admirers, and, according to his description of her, such were her good qualities,
and her personal attractions, that certain persons whom he names, among others the clergyman
of the parish, expressed their desire to engage her in their own service. The poet rejects
their solicitations, and informs them how unlikely a thing it is that Flora should engage with
them, as she was intended for the King:—

    EULOGY ON FLORA.

      Flòiri shùgach, bhòidheach, shùil-ghorm,
    A pòg mar ùbhlan as a' ghàradh,
    'N òg bhean, chliùiteach 's còmhnaird' giùlan,
    Dh' òlainn dùbailt a deoch-slàinte,
    Ge do shiubhail sibh 'n Roinn Eòrpa,
    'S na dùthchan mor' an taobh thall dith,
    Cha 'n fhaiceadh sibh leithid Flòiri,
    Cùl bachlach, glan, òr-bhuidhe na ban-righ.

      Maighdean bheul-dearg, foill cha leir dh' i,
    'S geal a deud o 'n ceutaich' gàire,
    Caoimhneil, beusach, trod neo-bheumach,
    'S ro mhaith leigeadh spréidh air àiridh,
    Clach-dhatha na h-Alba 's na h-Eirinn,
    Nach saltair air feur a h-àicheadh,
    Mar dhealt na maidne 'n a h-éirigh,
    'S mar aiteal na gréin a dealradh.

      A leadan dualach sìos m' a cluasaibh
    Chuir gu buaireadh fir a' bhràighe,
    Fleasgaich uaisl' a' srì mu 'n ghruagaich,
    'N ti tha 'gruaim ris 's truagh a chàramh,
    Ach b' annsa leath' cuman 'us buarach,
    'S dol do 'n bhuaile mar chaidh h-àrach,
    Langanaich cruidh-laoigh m' an cuairt di,
    'S binne sud na uaisle chràiteach.

      'S gnìomhach, càirdeil, b' fhearr dhomh ràdhainn,
    'S glan a h-àbhaist, 's tearc a leithid,
    Muime shàr-mhaith nan laogh àluinn,
    Im 'us càise théid sud leatha,
    Banarach fhortain ghàbhaidh
    Nam miosairean làn 's a' chèithe,
    Dheanadh i tuilleadh air càraid
    'S a phàidheadh dhomh màl Aonghuis Shaw.

      An t-àit' am faic sibh 'm bi gibht àraidh
    Sùilean chàich bidh 'n sin 'n an luidhe,
    Dòmhnull Bàn o 'm mìne Gailig
    Bhuin rium làidir as an athar;
    Thuirt e, thoir dhomhs' i gu bealltuinn,
    Seall an t-earlas tha thu faighinn
    Uam-sa, buannachd nan damh Gallda,
    No ma 's fearr leat na sin faidhir.

      Thuirt Dòmhnull Mac Bheathain 's e 's an éisdeachd,
    Nàile, 's fheudar dhomh-sa labhairt,
    'S mise 'n t-amadan thar cheud,
    A bheireadh cead dh' i 'n déigh a gabhail,
    Ach thoir-se nise dhomh féin i,
    'S théid nì 'us feudail a' d' lamhaibh,
    Gu 'n ruig a 's na tha tilgeadh réigh dhomh
    Ann am Banc Dhun-éidinn fathast.

      'N uair chual am Ministeir an t-srì
    A bha mu 'n rìomhainn thall an amhainn,
    Chuir e pìor-bhuic 'us ad shìod' air,
    'S chaidh e dìreach orm a dh' fheitheamh,
    'S thuirt e, thoir dhomh-s' an ath thìom dhìth,
    'S ni mi trì-fillte cho maith thu,
    'S ma shearmonaicheas tu féin do 'n sgìreachd
    Gheibh thu 'n stìpean 's bean-an-tighe.

      Ge pròiseil sibh le 'r n-òr, 's le 'r nì,
    Le 'r mòran stìpein, 's le 'r cuid mhnathaibh,
    'S fearr leam Flòiri agam fhéin
    Na ge do chìt 'iad leis an amhainn,
    Dheanainn an còrdadh cho simplidh
    'S i dhol cinnteach feadh nan tighean,
    Cia mar tha i coltach ribh-se?
    'S gur h-e 'n righ tha dol g' a faighinn.

The Mashie, a tributary of the Spey, in the parish of Laggan, runs close by Strathmashie house.
It is a small river, but in harvest time, when in flood, it causes considerable damage. The
poet takes occasion to censure the Mashie on this account; but he has his pleasant associations
in connection with the charming banks of this mountain stream, as expressed in the following
stanzas:—

    MATHAISITH CENSURED.

      Mhathaisith fhrògach dhubh,
    Fhrògach dhubh, fhrògach dhubh,
    Mhathaisith fhrògach dhubh,
    'S mòr rinn thu chall domh.

      Rinn thu m' eòrna a mhilleadh,
    'S mo chuid ghòrag air sileadh,
    'Us cha d' fhàg thu sguab tioram
    Do na chinnich do bhàrr dhomh.
                     Mhathaisith, &c.

      Cha robh lochan no caochan,
    A bha ruith leis an aonach,
    Nach do chruinnich an t-aon lan
    A thoirt aon uair do shàth dhuit.
                     Mhathaisith, &c.

