THE BAY STATE MONTHLY.

A Massachusetts Magazine.

VOL. III. AUGUST, 1885. NO. III.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN ALBION ANDREW.

THE "WAR-GOVERNOR" OF MASSACHUSETTS.

John Albion Andrew, the twenty-first Governor of Massachusetts, was born, May 31, 1818, at
Windham, a small town near Portland, Maine. His father was Jonathan Andrew, who had established
himself in Windham as a small trader; his mother was Nancy Green Pierce, of New Hampshire,
who was a teacher in the celebrated academy at Fryeburg, where Daniel Webster was once employed
in the same capacity.

Jonathan is described as having been "a quiet, reticent man, of much intelligence and a keen
perception of the ludicrous," while his wife was "well educated, with great sweetness of temper,
and altogether highly prepossessing in appearance." There never was a more united and happy
family. The father possessed ample means for their education, and left his household to the
good management of his wife, who was admirable in her domestic arrangements, judicious, sensible,
energetic, and a rigid disciplinarian of her children. There was a rare union of gentleness
and force in this woman, which made her generally attractive, and especially endeared her to
all who came under the influence of her character.

Mrs. Andrew died on the 7th of March, 1832. Shortly afterwards the husband sold out his property
in Windham and removed to a farm in Boxford, in the county where he was born. He died in September,
1849.

John Albion, the oldest son, entered Bowdoin College in 1833, where he pursued a course in
no way remarkable. He was a studious youth, applied himself closely to his books, and appeared
to take no lively interest in athletic sports. Notwithstanding his studiousness, he was ranked
among the lowest of his class, and was allotted no part at Commencement. Among his fellows
he was, however, exceedingly popular, and his happy temperament, his genial nature, won him
friendship which after years only made stronger and more enduring.

After his graduation the young man came to Boston and entered the office of the late Henry
H. Fuller, as a student of law. The attraction between him and young Andrew was mutual, and
they became almost like brothers. It was while serving his novitiate under Mr. Fuller that
Andrew became interested in many of the reform movements of the day, and was as firm and peculiar
in one direction as his friend was in another.

Andrew rose slowly at the bar. To his clients he simply did his duty, and that was all. He
was not a learned lawyer, nor was he in any sense a great lawyer, and yet he expended great
care and industry in looking up his cases, and probably never lost a client who had once employed
him. We are told by one of his biographers that, "during all these years he was not what was
called a student, but was never idle." He entered largely into the moral questions of that
day; was greatly interested in the preaching of James Freeman Clarke; a constant attendant
at meeting and the Bible-classes. Occasional lay-preaching being the custom of that church,
young Andrew sometimes occupied the pulpit and conducted the services to the general acceptance
of the people.

Andrew did not become actively interested in politics until his admission to the bar, and then
he joined the Whig party, and became thoroughly in earnest in advocating the Anti-Slavery movement.
In 1859 he was chosen to the lower branch of the Legislature and at once took a prominent position.
In 1860 he was nominated for Governor of the Commonwealth, by a general popular impulse which
overwhelmed the old political managers, who regarded him as an intruder upon the arena, and
had laid other plans. He was called to the position of chief magistrate of Massachusetts at
a most momentous time, but he was found equal to the emergency, and early acquired, by general
consent, the title of "The Great War-Governor."

It was just on the eve of the Rebellion, and the whole North was excited by the events which
had already transpired. In his inaugural address in January, '61, Governor Andrew advised that
a portion of the militia should be placed on a footing of activity, in order that, "in the
possible contingencies of the future the State might be ready without inconvenient delay to
contribute her share of force in any exigency of public danger," and immediately despatched
a confidential messenger to the Governors of Maine and New Hampshire to inform them of his
determination to prepare for instant service the militia of Massachusetts, and to invite their
coöperation.

This is not the place nor the time to give even a résumé of Governor Andrew's administration.
He retired from office at the close of 1865, after a service of unexampled interest and importance
in the history of the Commonwealth. He retired with honor to himself and to the regret of all
who had known him best. We have already alluded to Governor Andrew's interest in the question
of Anti-Slavery, and it should be stated that in regard to the emancipation of the slaves he
was among the first, as he was the most persistent advocate of a measure which he considered
the greatest blow that could be struck at the enemy, fully justified as a measure of war and
demanded by every consideration of justice and humanity.

Apropos of his impatience on this subject the following incident related by one of the Governor's
friends is worth recalling:--

"It was the summer of 1862, when emancipation was being talked a great deal. We had not had
any great successes, and everybody had a notion that emancipation ought to come. One day the
Governor sent for me to come up to the State-House. I went up to his room, and I never shall
forget how I met him. He was signing some kind of bonds, standing at a tall desk in the Council
Chamber, in his shirt-sleeves, his fingers all covered with ink. He said, 'How do you do? I
want you to go to Washington.'--'Why, Governor,' said I, 'I can't go to Washington on any such
notice as this; I am busy, and it is impossible for me to go.'--'All my folks are serving their
country,' said he; and he mentioned the various services the members of his staff were engaged
in, and said with emphasis, 'Somebody must go to Washington.'--'Well, Governor, I don't see
how I can.' Said he, 'I command you to go!'--'Well,' said I, 'Governor, put it in that way
and I shall go, of course.'--'There is something going on,' he remarked. 'This is a momentous
time.' He turned suddenly towards me and said, 'You believe in prayer, don't you?' I said,
'Why, of course.'--'Then let us pray;' and he knelt right down at the chair that was placed
there; we both kneeled down, and I never heard such a prayer in all my life. I never was so
near the throne of God, except when my mother died, as I was then. I said to the Governor,
'I am profoundly impressed; and I will start this afternoon for Washington.' I soon found out
that emancipation was in everybody's mouth, and when I got to Washington and called upon Sumner,
he began to talk emancipation. He asked me to go and see the President, and tell him how the
people of Boston and New England regarded it. I went to the White House that evening and met
the President. We first talked about everything but emancipation, and finally he asked me what
I thought about emancipation. I told him what I thought about it, and said that Governor Andrew
was so far interested in it that I had no doubt he had sent me on there to post the President
in regard to what the class of people I met in Boston and New York thought of it, and then
I repeated to him, as I had previously to Sumner, this prayer of the Governor's, as well as
I could remember it. The President said, 'When we have the Governor of Massachusetts to send
us troops in the way he has, and when we have him to utter such prayers for us, I have no doubt
that we shall succeed.' In September the Governor sent for me. He had a despatch that emancipation
would be proclaimed, and it was done the next day. You remember the President made proclamation
in September to take effect in January. Well, he and I were together alone again in the Council
Chamber. Said he, 'You remember when I wanted you to go on to Washington?' I said, 'Yes, I
remember it very well.'--'Well,' said he, 'I didn't know exactly what I wanted you to go for
then. Now I will tell you what let's do; you sing "Coronation," and I'll join with you.' So
we sang together the old tune, and also "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." Then I sang
"Old John Brown," he marching around the room and joining in the chorus after each verse."

After the war had begun, Governor Andrew insisted on every measure to defeat the Confederate
armies that was consistent with the laws of war. He was especially strenuous in demanding the
emancipation of the slaves, as the following quotation from a sketch by Mr. Albert G. Browne,
Jr., the Governor's military secretary, will show:--

"Over the bodies of our soldiers who were killed at Baltimore he had recorded a prayer that
he might live to see the end of the war, and a vow that, so long as he should govern Massachusetts,
and so far as Massachusetts could control the issue, it should not end without freeing every
slave in America. He believed, at the first, in the policy of emancipation as a war measure.
Finding that timid counsels controlled the government at Washington, and the then commander
of the Army of the Potomac, so that there was no light in that quarter, he hailed the action
of Fremont in Missouri in proclaiming freedom to the Western slaves. Through all the reverses
which afterwards befell that officer he never varied from this friendship; and when at last
Fremont retired from the Army of Virginia, the Governor offered him the command of a Massachusetts
regiment, and vainly urged him to take the field again under our State flag. Just so, afterwards,
he welcomed the similar action of Hunter in South Carolina, and wrote in his defence the famous
letter in which he urged 'to fire at the enemy's magazine.' He was deeply disappointed when
the administration disavowed Hunter's act, for he had hoped much from the personal friendship
which was known to exist between the General and the President. Soon followed the great reverses
of McClellan before Richmond.

"The feelings of the Governor at this time, on the subject of emancipation, are well expressed
in a speech which he made on Aug. 10, 1862, at the Methodist camp-meeting on Martha's Vineyard.
It was the same speech in which occurs his remark since so often quoted:--

"'I know not what record of sin awaits me in the other world, but this I know, that I was never
mean enough to despise any man because he was black.'

"Referring to slavery, he said:--

"'I have never believed it to be possible that this controversy should end and peace resume
her sway until that dreadful iniquity has been trodden beneath our feet. I believe it cannot,
and I have noticed, my friends (although I am not superstitious, I believe), that, from the
day our government turned its back on the proclamation of General Hunter, the blessing of God
has been withdrawn from our arms. We were marching on conquering and to conquer; post after
post had fallen before our victorious arms; but since that day I have seen no such victories.
But I have seen no discouragement. I bate not one jot of hope. I believe that God rules above,
and that he will rule in the hearts of men, and that, either with our aid or against it, he
has determined to let the people go. But the confidence I have in my own mind that the appointed
hour has nearly come makes me feel all the more confidence in the certain and final triumph
of our Union arms, because I do not believe that this great investment of Providence is to
be wasted.'"

Governor Andrew retired from office January 5, 1866, and, returning to private life, he again
entered upon a large practice at the bar, which was lucrative as well.

On the 30th of October, 1867, he died suddenly of apoplexy, after tea, at his own home on Charles
street, Boston. The body was laid in Mount Auburn Cemetery, but was afterwards removed to the
old burial-place in Hingham, where a fine statue has since been erected over his grave.

Governor Andrew was married Christmas evening, December, 1848, to Miss Eliza Jane, daughter
of Charles Hersey, of Hingham. They had four children living at the time of his death,--John
Forrester, born Nov. 26, 1850; Elizabeth Loring, born July 29, 1852; Edith, born April 5, 1854;
Henry Hersey, born April 28, 1858.

Mr. Edwin P. Whipple, who was first chosen as the most competent person to write the biography
of Governor Andrew, after examining the Governor's private and official correspondence, affirmed
that he could discover nothing in his most private notes which was not honorable.

Says Mr. Peleg W. Chandler, in his "Memoir and Reminiscences of Governor Andrew,"[1] a most
charming volume, from which largely this sketch has been prepared:--

"He passed more than twenty years in an arduous profession, and never earned more than enough
for the decent and comfortable support of his family. He devoted his best years to the country,
and lost his life in her service.

[Footnote 1: Published by Roberts Brothers, Boston.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CITY OF WORCESTER--THE HEART OF THE COMMONWEALTH.

By Fanny Bullock Workman.

The city of Worcester, forty-four miles west of Boston, lies in a valley surrounded on all
sides by hills, and covers an area which may be roughly estimated as extending four miles in
length by two in breadth, its long axis running north and south. It is the second city in the
State in point of population, while in enterprise it yields the palm to none of its size in
the country, sending to all parts of the world its manufactured products, the excellence of
which has established the reputation of the place in which they were produced.

Worcester was first settled in the spring of 1675, under the name of Quinsigamond. The original
order of the General Court, granted Oct. 11th, 1665, was as follows:--

  This Court, understanding by the petition of Thomas Noyes, John Haynes
  of Sudbury, and Nathaniel Treadaway of Watertown, hereunto affixed,
  that there is a meete place for a Plantation about ten miles from
  Marlborow, westward, at or neer Quansetamug Pond, which, that it may
  be improved for that end, and not spoiled by the grantinge of farms,
  in answer to the forsaid petition, This Court doth order, that there
  should he a quantitie of eight miles square layd out and reserved
  thereabout, in the Courts dispose, for a plantation, for the
  encouragement of such persons as shall appear, any time within three
  years from the date hereof, beeing men approved by this Court; and that
  Capt. Edward Johnson, Lieut. Joshua Fisher, and Lieut. Thomas Noyes,
  shall, and are herby appointed and empowered to lay out the same,
  and to be payd by such persons as shall appear within the terme above
  expressed. The Deputies have passed this with reference to the consent
  of our honored Magistrates hereto.

  WILLIAM TORREY clerk

  The Magistrates consent to a survey of the place petitioned for, and
  that Capt. Gookin doe joine with those mentioned of our brethren the
  deputies, and make return of their survey to the next General Court of
  Elections, who may take order therein as they shall see meete, their
  brethren the deputies hereto consenting.

  EDWARD RAWSON Sect'y.

  WILLIAM TORREY Cleric. Consented to by the deputies.

At that time several persons occupied lands that had been granted them, and built houses. This
infant settlement was strangled almost at its birth by the outbreak of King Philip's War, which
spread in that year throughout Massachusetts. The colonists, few in number, and without adequate
means of protection against the hostile savages, soon abandoned their buildings, which were
burned by the Indians, December 2, 1675. In 1684 some of the former proprietors returned to
their lands, accompanied by new settlers, and a second plantation was formed; this time under
the name of Worcester. The records relating to the fortunes of this plantation are very meagre;
but it continued to exist till 1700, or 1702, when, during the progress of the French and Indian
hostilities, owing to its exposed position, it was again deserted by its inhabitants. One man
only, Digory Serjent, remained with his family, refusing to give up to the Indians the fields
his labor had brought under cultivation. For a time he was unmolested. The authorities sent
messengers to warn him of the danger he incurred by his rash course, and to advise his removal
with his family to a place of safety. But the warning and admonition were alike disregarded.
At last, early in the winter of 1702, an armed force was sent to compel him to depart. They
marched with due expedition, but, being detained overnight by a severe snow-storm at a blockhouse
about two miles from his residence, they arrived too late to attain their object, and found
his body, scarcely yet cold, lying on the floor, and his family carried captive by the Indians.
Thus terminated the second attempt at a settlement on this spot, which was again given over
for several years to desolation and decay.

The principal seat of the Indians in this vicinity was Pakachoag Hill, a little south of where
now stands the College of the Holy Cross. They were called Nipmuck Indians, and consisted of
about twenty families, numbering about one hundred persons, under Sagamore John. Another tribe,
of about the same number, dwelt on Tatnuck Hill, under Sagamore Solomon. John Eliot, the famous
apostle to the Indians, with General Daniel Gookins, visited these tribes in 1674; but he did
not fully reclaim them to peaceful habits, although many of them professed Christianity.

In 1713 the inhabitants, not discouraged by their former experience, one after another returned
again to take possession of their property; and this time they returned to stay. They were
joined by others, and the population began to increase. In 1722 Worcester was incorporated
as a town, and henceforth assumed its share of responsibility with the other towns in adopting
measures for the general welfare, and contributed its proportion of men and supplies for the
common defence. Through the stormy period preceding the War of the Revolution, the public sentiment
of Worcester sustained the rights of the Colonies, and when, on the 19th of April, 1773, the
messenger of war, on his white horse, dashed through the town, shouting, "To arms! to arms!
the war is begun," the response was immediate; the bell was rung, cannon fired, and the minute-men,
true to name, rallied on the Common, where they were paraded by Capt. Timothy Bigelow. At about
five o'clock in the afternoon they took up their line of march. Capt. Benjamin Flagg soon followed,
with thirty-one men,--a total of one hundred and eight men. Capt. Bigelow having halted at
Sudbury, to rest his men, was met by Capt. Flagg, when they both pushed on to Cambridge, where
the organization of the army was being made. Timothy Bigelow, whose abilities were at once
recognized, was appointed Major in Col. Jonathan Ward's regiment. On the 24th of April another
company, of fifty-nine men, all from Worcester, enlisted under Capt. Jonas Hubbard. During
the seven dark years that followed, this town never wavered in its devotion to the cause of
liberty, and was represented on many of the most important battle-fields, as well as at the
surrender of Yorktown, which terminated the struggle for independence. Saturday, the 14th of
July, 1776, the Declaration of Independence was received. It was publicly read, for the first
time on Massachusetts soil, from the porch of the Old South Church, by Isaiah Thomas, to the
assembled crowd. On Sunday, after divine service, it was read in the church. Measures were
adopted for a proper celebration of the event, and on the Monday following, the earliest commemoration
of the occasion, since hallowed as the national anniversary, took place in the town.

Worcester continued to increase both in size and importance during the first half of the present
century, till, in 1848, having outgrown the limits of a town, it was made a city, and the first
city government inaugurated, with Ex-Gov. Levi Lincoln, Mayor, and the following Aldermen:
Parley Goddard, Benjamin F. Thomas, John W. Lincoln, James S. Woodworth, William B. Fox, James
Estabrook, Isaac Davis, and Stephen Salisbury. The City Clerk was Charles A. Hamilton; the
City Treasurer, John Boyden; and the City Marshal, George Jones. Since then it has made rapid
strides in growth, influence, and prosperity. When the call for troops to defend Washington
came, in 1861, Worcester as a city was true to her record as a town; for within twelve hours
a company started for the seat of war, and passed through Baltimore with the Sixth Massachusetts
Regiment, on the memorable 19th of April, just eighty-six years from the first shedding of
Massachusetts blood at Lexington.

In 1800 the population of Worcester was 2,411; in 1820 it was 2,962; in 1840, 7,500; in 1850,
17,049; in 1860, about 25,000; in 1870, about 41,000. At the present time it is about 70,000.
The first event of consequence that gave an impetus to the growth of the town was the opening
of the Blackstone Canal, in 1828, connecting Worcester with tide-water at Providence. This,
although considered at the time a marvel of engineering skill, and undoubtedly of great benefit
to the public, was not a successful enterprise, and on the establishment of railroads a few
years later was discontinued.

In 1831 the Boston and Worcester Railroad was incorporated and soon built, followed at short
intervals by the Western Railroad, the Norwich and Worcester, the Nashua and Worcester, Fitchburg
and Worcester, and the Providence and Worcester railroads; thus making a centre from which
one could travel in any direction. Later the Barre and Gardner Railroad was built, and the
Boston and Worcester consolidated with the Western Railroad. By this last corporation the Union
Passenger Station was erected, in 1877, which is one of the most costly, elegant, and convenient
edifices devoted to this business in the country. About seventy-five trains arrive and depart
daily. The advantage thus given to Worcester over other towns in the county was great, and
the results were striking and immediate, as may be seen by reference to the figures of population
above given. The facility of communication thus afforded caused capitalists to settle here,
and manufactures rapidly sprang up and flourished, drawing to this spot thousands of laborers,
who otherwise would have gone elsewhere. At the present time the chief interests of the city
centre in its manufactures, which embrace almost every variety of articles made in iron, steel,
and wire cotton and woollen fabrics, leather, wood, and chemicals.

Among the multitude of manufactured products it is almost useless to attempt to specify any
particular ones. The same is true of the manufacturing establishments and corporations. Mention
may be made, however, of the Washburn & Moen Wire Works, which give employment to about three
thousand operatives, established in 1831, and having a capital of two million dollars. The
power used in manufacturing is almost exclusively steam, but water is used somewhat in the
outskirts, where streams have been dammed to make reservoirs.

Connected with the growth of Worcester it is interesting to note that the increase in the population
has been largely from the ranks of the laboring classes. The manner in which the city is built
shows this to the most casual observer. There are but few large estates or imposing residences,
surrounded with extensive grounds. The great majority of the houses are made of wood, are of
small size, and stand in small enclosures. As mechanics have prospered they have bought land,
and built such houses as were suitable to their means, obtaining loans of the savings-banks,
which they have paid off gradually. This has been especially the case the last few years, during
which time the city has extended in every direction in the manner indicated; and it is said
the greater part of the deposits in the savings-banks, as well as their loans, have been made
by and to people of the laboring class. This shows a general prosperity, and indicates a permanency
of population not seen in many cities. During the last twenty years many people who began life
with the most modest means, or with none at all, have become wealthy; and in almost every such
case their prosperity has been due to their connection with manufacturing interests.

Worcester is exceptionally fortunate in its water-supply. This is derived from two large reservoirs
fed by running streams, each about five miles distant from the city. One of these, called the
Lynde-Brook Reservoir, is situated in the township of Leicester. It was built in 1864, has
a water-shed of 1,870 acres, and a storage capacity of 681,000,000 gallons, and an elevation
of 481 feet above the City Hall. The dam of this reservoir gave way in February, 1876, during
a freshet, and the immense mass of water was precipitated, with an unearthly roar, into the
valley below, destroying everything in its path, and carrying rocks, earth, trees, and débris
to a distance of several miles. The other, called the Holden Reservoir, is in the township
of Holden. This was built in 1883, has a water-shed of 3,148 acres, a storage capacity of 450,000,000
gallons, and lies 260 feet above the City Hall. There are also three distributing reservoirs
at elevations of 177 to 184 feet above the level of Main street, and supplied from the two
principal reservoirs. Thirty-inch mains connect the reservoirs with the city. The height of
the water-supply gives a pressure in the pipes at the City Hall of from sixty to seventy-five
pounds to the square inch, which is sufficient to throw a stream of water to the tops of the
highest buildings,--a great advantage in case of fire, rendering the employment of steam fire-engines
unnecessary in those parts of the city provided with hydrants. The water is of excellent quality,
being remarkably free from impurities, either organic or mineral. The total amount expended
on the water-works from 1864 to December 1, 1884, is $1,653,456, and the income from water-rates
for the year ending December, 1884, was $107,515. The uneven character of the ground upon which
Worcester is built is favorable to drainage, and advantage has been taken of this fact to construct
an excellent system of sewers, which thoroughly drain the greater parts of the city. All abutters
are obliged to enter the sewers; and no surface-drainage nor cesspools are allowed. The result
is that Worcester is a very clean city, and few places can be found either in the city itself
or in the suburbs where surface accumulations exhale unpleasant or noxious odors. To the influence
of pure water and good drainage may partly be ascribed the general good health of the inhabitants,
and the absence, during the last few years, of anything like an epidemic of diseases dependent
upon unsanitary conditions. The sewers all converge upon one large common sewer, which discharges
its contents into the Blackstone river at Quinsigamond.

In Worcester, as in most of the smaller cities of New England, the Main street is the chief
thoroughfare and the site of many of the prominent buildings. This street runs north and south,
and is about two and a half miles long. Near the north end, at Lincoln square, are the Court-House
and the American Antiquarian Society building. The latter contains a large number of valuable
and rare books, much sought after for reference by students. Farther on toward the business
centre are the Bay State House--Worcester's principal hotel--and Mechanics' Hall. This hall
is one of the handsomest and largest in the State, and has a seating capacity of about two
thousand. In the centre of the city, bordering upon Main street, is the Old Common, the original
park of Worcester, now a small breathing-place of the working class, where band concerts are
frequently given in summer. Here stand the Soldiers' Monument, designed by Randolph Rogers,
of Rome, and the Bigelow Monument, erected to Timothy Bigelow, who commanded the minute-men
who marched to Cambridge upon receipt of the news of the Battle of Lexington, and served throughout
the Revolution as colonel of the Fifteenth Massachusetts Regiment. At one corner of the Common,
facing Main street, is the City Hall, a small, unimposing structure, hardly worthy of the city.
The question of erecting a new one has been lately agitated. Near by stands the Old South Church,
built in 1763. The business portion of Main street is well lined with large blocks, and the
south end is laid out for residences.

Upon one of the hills, at the west side, stands the City Hospital, which is well managed and
kept up, and has a visiting staff of the best physicians in the city. In connection with this
institution, a training-school for nurses has lately been established.

The city's most imposing building is the Worcester State Lunatic Asylum, which can be seen
from the trains on the Boston and Albany Railroad. A picturesque edifice in itself it crowns
a hill about two miles east of Worcester, and overlooks the blue waters of Lake Quinsigamond,
and also a charming stretch of hill and dale beyond. Were the softening charms of nature a
potent remedy for the diseased mind, speedy cures might be effected in this sequestered retreat.
It contains generally over seven hundred inmates, and can accommodate more. The building, begun
in 1873, was completed in 1877, is handsomely fitted up throughout, and very spacious. It cost
one million and a quarter dollars.

