The objection that the school has no right to permit or require medical inspection of the children
will not bear close scrutiny or logical analysis. The authority which has the right to compel
attendance at school has the added duty of insisting that no harm shall come to those who go
there. The exercise of the power to enforce school attendance is dangerous if it is not accompanied
by an appreciation of the duty of seeing to it that the assembling of pupils brings to the
individual no physical detriment.

Nor are the schools, in assuming the medical oversight of the pupils, trespassing upon the
domain of private rights and initiative. Under medical inspection, what is done for the parent
is to tell him of the needs of his child, of which he might otherwise have been in ignorance.
It leaves to the parent the duty of meeting those needs. It leaves him with a larger responsibility
than before. It is difficult to find a logical basis for the argument that the school has not
the right to inform the parents of defects present in the child, and to advise as to remedial
measures which should be taken to remove them.

The justification of the state in assuming the function of education and in making that education
compulsory is to insure its own preservation and efficiency. Whether or not it is successful
will depend on the degree to which its individual members are spiritually prepared for modern
co-operation.

But the well-being of a state is as much dependent upon the strength, health, and productive
capacity of its members as it is upon their knowledge and intelligence. In order that it may
insure the efficiency of its citizens, the state, through its compulsory education enactments,
requires its youth to pursue certain studies which experience has proved necessary to secure
that efficiency. Individual efficiency, however, rests not alone on education or intelligence,
but is equally dependent on physical health and vigor. Hence, if the state may make mandatory
training in intelligence, it may also command training to secure physical soundness and capacity.
Health is the foundation on which rests the happiness of a people and the power of a nation.

HOW THE WORK STARTED

The first work of this kind in Cleveland is described in Superintendent Jones' report for 1900.
In that year the schools became greatly interested in the question of defective vision. Tests
were made by teachers in different grades, and as a result over 2,000 children were given treatment.

In 1906, an agreement was reached with the Board of Health, so that each alternate day a health
inspector communicated with the principal of every school. Teachers were warned to be on the
alert for symptoms of illness, and children showing signs of measles, whooping cough, scarlet
fever, or other common diseases of childhood, were reported to the principal, and through her
to the Board of Health. Contagious cases were excluded from school as soon as detected, and
a systematic campaign started against the waves of disease which were sweeping one after another
through the schools.

In the same year Drs. L. W. Childs, J. H. McHenry, H. L. Sanford, and other members of the
medical profession volunteered their services as school physicians, to detect not only cases
of possible contagion, but also the existence of physical defects. What was probably the first
school dispensary in the United States was opened at the request of Dr. Childs by the Board
of Education in 1907 at the Murray Hill School. The value of school dispensaries was so immediately
evident that by 1909 seven others were established for the use of these three physicians.

Coincident with the dispensaries came the school nurse. When the first nurse was appointed
at the Murray Hill School, a remarkable change was observed among the children. Absences became
less frequent. Skin diseases were rare. Children began to take an interest in health matters,
and there was a marked rise in standards of neatness and cleanliness. Teachers and principals
united in their demand for more nurses, until within a year after the movement started there
were six nurses appointed by the Board of Education and regularly employed in school work.
In the same year, December, 1909, the Board of Education formally voted to establish a Division
of Health Supervision and Inspection as part of the regular school system.

THE PRESENT SYSTEM

As it is at present organized, the Division handles inspection for contagious disease, inspection
for physical and mental defects, follow-up work for the remedying of defects, health instruction,
recommendation of children to schools for the physically and mentally handicapped, school lunches,
gardens, and playgrounds.

Either the nurse or physician reports at each school every day of the year. Once during the
year each child is given a careful physical examination, and further examinations are made
when they are needed. All serious defects are reported to parents, and in cases where treatment
is important, parents are urged to consult with the school doctor concerning the nature of
the difficulty and the best means of curing it. To supplement these interviews, the school
nurse spends a large part of her time in visiting homes, talking with parents, noting conditions
under which children live, and making suggestions as to home care.

Some idea of the complexity of this work may be gained from the Division records for 1914-1915.
From the beginning of September to the end of June--a period of 38 school weeks--doctors and
nurses examined 74,725 children; gave private interviews to 2,547 parents; made 5,675 visits
to dispensaries; 10,603 visits to homes; and gave 76,240 treatments and dressings. In addition,
they gave 775 toothbrush drills, and 19,406 individual or class health talks to the pupils
of the public schools during the year.

THE SCHOOL NURSE

The value of the school nurse is one feature of medical inspection of schools about which there
is no division of opinion. Her services have abundantly demonstrated their utility, and her
employment has quite passed the experimental stage. The introduction of the trained nurse into
the service of education has been rapid, and few school innovations have met with such widespread
support and enthusiastic approval.

The reason for this is that the school nurse supplies the motive force which makes medical
inspection effective. The school physician's discovery of defects and diseases is of little
use if the result is only the entering of the fact on the record card or the exclusion of the
child from school. The notice sent to parents telling of the child's condition and advising
that the family physician be consulted, represents wasted effort if the parents fail to realize
the import of the notification or if there be no family physician to consult. If the physical
examination has for its only result the entering of words upon record cards, then pediculosis
and tuberculosis are of precisely equal importance. The nurse avoids such ineffective lost
motions by converting them into efficient functioning through assisting the physician in his
examinations, personally following up the cases to insure remedial action, and educating teachers,
children, and parents in practical applied hygiene.

Some idea of the work of the school nurses in Cleveland may be gained from the following record
of what one nurse did during one day while the survey was in progress. It represents a typical
day's work for a typical nurse and is not especially unusual.

     8:30 A. M.

     Home call to get permission to take child to school
     headquarters for mental examination.

     Called at Case-Woodland School to examine child with sore
     throat.

     Took a child home to have mother clean her up.

     Called at Harmon School.

     Treated 10 cases of impetigo, three of toothache, two of
     ringworm.

     Took two children home to be cleaned up.

     Inspected 50 children.

     Gave health talk.

     Tried to locate a boy who is to attend partial blind class
     at Harmon School.

     Found boy was transferred from Harmon School to Marion
     School last year.

     Called at Marion School but found no trace of boy.

     Called at address to which child was supposed to have moved;
     no such number.

     Called at Kennard School to see if Miss O'Neill remembered
     him at Marion School; found no trace of him.

     Called at two homes in regard to enlarged tonsils and
     defective vision.

     1:15 P. M.

     Mayflower School: boy with sprained ankle, soaked in hot
     water, strapped with adhesive.

     Treated four cases of impetigo, one cut finger, opened two
     boils.

     Conference with mother at school.

     Instructed her in case of child's discharging ear.

     Inspected 62 children.

     Called at two homes to secure treatment for defective teeth.

     Advised mother to send children to Marion Dental Clinic.

To sum up the case for the school nurse: She is the teacher of the parents, the pupils, the
teachers, and the family in applied practical hygiene. Her work prevents loss of time on the
part of the pupils and vastly reduces the number of exclusions for contagious diseases. She
cures minor ailments in the school and clinic and furnishes efficient aid in emergencies. She
gives practical demonstrations in the home of required treatments, often discovering there
the source of the trouble, which, if undiscovered, would render useless the work of the medical
inspector in the school. The school nurse is the most efficient possible link between the school
and the home. Her work is immensely important in its direct results and far-reaching in its
indirect influences. Among foreign populations she is a very potent force for Americanization.

CLEVELAND'S DISPENSARIES

Cleveland has 86 school dispensaries, or what are usually termed "physicians' offices." These
are rooms about 20 feet long by 15 feet wide, located in the basement or on the first floor
of the school building, well lighted, and painted in white or light colors. Usually they contain
one or two small white enamel tables, several chairs, a wash basin with running water, a white
enamel pail for waste materials, wooden tongue depressors, eye charts, a medical cabinet filled
with instruments and supplies, filing boxes, and printed forms. In 37 of the elementary schools,
shower baths are provided as part of the equipment of the building.

Cleveland's dispensaries are of exceptionally high grade. In every case lighting, ventilation,
and equipment are good. Many of the rooms are large enough for conferences and hygiene talks,
and in at least one school--East Madison--the dispensary is used with desirable psychological
effect for the regular meetings of the Mothers' Club. The excellence of Cleveland's school
dispensaries has contributed in no small measure to the efficiency of the medical service,
and money spent in this way has been a wise investment. It is probably true that Cleveland's
dispensaries are of better grade than those of any other large city in the United States.

These dispensaries have proved of the greatest value in rendering the physical examinations
of the children more effective and efficient. This work is very different from that which relates
to the detection of contagious diseases. The latter is primarily a protective measure and looks
mainly to the immediate safeguarding of the health of the community. The former aims at securing
physical soundness and vitality and looks far into the future.

The physical examinations conducted in these dispensaries have shown conclusively that a large
percentage of the Cleveland children--like those of all other cities--suffer from defective
vision to the extent of requiring an oculist's care if they are to do their work properly,
and if permanent injury to their eyes is to be avoided. More than this, a considerable proportion
of the children are so seriously defective in hearing that their school work suffers severely.
Most important of all, only a small minority of these defects of sight and hearing are discovered
by teachers or known to them, to the parents, or to the children themselves. When the children
attempt to do their school work while suffering from these defects, among the results may be
counted permanent injury to the eyes, severe injury to the nervous system due to eyestrain,
and depression and discouragement, owing to inability to see and hear clearly.

Moreover, there are other defects, in particular those of nose, throat, and teeth, which are
common among children and which have an important bearing upon their present health and future
development. The importance of these defects is emphasized by the fact that, if discovered
early enough, they may easily be remedied or modified, whereas neglect leads, almost invariably,
to permanent impairment of physical condition. These are the reasons why Cleveland's heavy
investment in school dispensaries is yielding a return in enhanced health, happiness, and vigor
probably unexcelled by the dividends from any other sort of educational expenditure.

DENTAL CLINICS

Dental work for school children was introduced about a year ago by the Cleveland Auxiliary
of the National Mouth Hygiene Association. Building space is provided by the Board of Education
in four schools, Stanard, Lawn, Fowler, and Marion. The Association furnishes equipment, dentists,
and assistants. Clinics are open three forenoons a week and are crowded to capacity.

When this work started, it was frankly an experiment. Through wise and thoughtful management
the Mouth Hygiene Association has shown that dental clinics for school children are both practical
and necessary. This having been demonstrated, the time has come when the city should take over
their direction. Cleveland should no longer rely upon the activity of a private organization,
but at an early date should assume full financial and administrative responsibility for dental
clinics in the public schools.

Dr. William Osler, the distinguished English physician, is credited with saying, "If I were
asked to say whether more physical deterioration was produced by alcohol or by defective teeth,
I should say unhesitatingly, defective teeth." The development of the movement for dental inspection
of school children in Cleveland shows that the educational system has been awakening to a realization
of the truth and significance of Dr. Osler's statement. The most salient fact in the situation
is that the commonest of all physical defects among school children is decayed teeth. Cases
of dental defectiveness are frequently greater in number than are all other sorts of physical
defects combined. Moreover, it is probably true that there is no single ailment of school children
which is directly or indirectly responsible for so great an amount of misery, disease, and
mental and physical handicap. These are reasons why Cleveland should steadfastly continue in
the maintenance and development of the dental clinics.

EYE CLINICS

An eye clinic is maintained by the Department of Medical Inspection at the Brownell School.
This clinic is open every afternoon during the school year. The method of procedure is as follows:
During the routine physical examinations of children by the doctors in the different schools,
the vision is tested and, if found defective, the parents are advised of it by note. The nurse
then follows up the case and if she finds that the parents are unable to pay for an examination
by an oculist, she takes the child to the school clinic, after having obtained the written
consent of the parent. There the child is given a thorough and accurate examination, the eyes
being first dilated with homatropin and the error of refraction determined by means of the
retinoscope. The proper glasses are ordered for the child and in a few days he is brought back
to the clinic and the frames carefully adjusted. The nurse then keeps in touch with the case,
seeing to it that the child wears the glasses, that the frames are straight, and that the symptoms
of which the child complained are relieved.

Many parents are unable to pay an oculist's fee but are able and willing to pay a small amount
for glasses and in these cases a nominal charge is made for them. Experience has shown that
if a charge, no matter how small, is made for the glasses better care is taken of them and
better results are obtained. In some cases there has been opposition on the part of the parents
to the child's wearing glasses, but usually the nurse has been able to prove to them the necessity
and has obtained their consent.

During the school year 1914-15, the total number of dispensary visits was 1,913. In 665 cases
the eyes were refracted and in 500 cases glasses were furnished. In about 75 per cent of the
cases the children's symptoms are relieved and their scholarship is improved. In about 10 per
cent of the cases the symptoms are not relieved. About five per cent of the children refuse
to wear the glasses. The remaining 10 per cent of the children cannot be located because they
have moved from the city or been transferred to private schools. The value of the work of the
eye clinic is beyond question.

There are no other clinics in connection with the Cleveland public school system. Mental examinations
are made by a special teacher appointed for that purpose. All surgical cases are referred to
family physicians or local hospitals for treatment.

CO-OPERATION OF COLLEGE FOR BARBERS

Rather an unusual form of clinical work is found in service rendered by students of the Cleveland
College for Barbers. In several districts an arrangement between the school physician and the
college provides that free hair cuts be furnished pupils at intervals during the school year.
The coming of the barber is an event eagerly greeted, and principals report that as a result
children show increased pride in personal appearance.

THE MEDICAL INSPECTION STAFF

The organization of the staff deserves special comment. The physicians employed are mature
men, graduates of well-known medical schools. The youngest medical inspector on the staff is
29, the oldest 46, and the average age of all the doctors is 36. They are picked men, selected
for the work because of their skill, intelligence, and social viewpoint. They are splendidly
representative of the medical profession in Cleveland. They have fairly wide private practices
and in many cases are carrying on the school work at real financial sacrifice because of their
interest in the problems it involves. Their assistants are all registered nurses from the Visiting
Nurses Association and distinctly high grade women.

Medical inspectors receive $100 a month during the school year. They are required to give three
and one-half hours a day, five days a week, to work in the schools, inclusive of traveling
time between buildings. Nurses are paid on the schedule of the Visiting Nurses Association
and salaries range from $60 to $80 depending upon length of service. The upper limit will probably
be raised to $85 in the near future. Nurses are on duty from 8:30 to 4:30 every weekday except
Saturday, when work ends at noon. Nurses are regularly employed only during the school year,
but two are retained longer for service in summer schools.

The efficiency of doctors and nurses is in no small measure due to the frequent informal conferences
of the staff. In addition to many smaller conferences, once each month the entire staff meets--nurses
as well as physicians--to discuss problems which have arisen during the preceding weeks, and
makes plans for the future. These meetings are very informal; nurses are urged to take part
in the discussion, and the result is the enthusiastic co-operation of the entire staff.

THE PLAN OF CONCENTRATING INTERESTS

An interesting feature of organization is the plan whereby each year a different series of
problems is attacked, and the energies of the entire staff directed along this line. Thus,
1910-1911 shows special emphasis laid upon eye defects, and nearly 11,000 children were found
in need of glasses. In 1911-1912, although the number of defects discovered increased, the
number of children examined strikingly decreased. Extra study was made of adenoids, glands,
nutrition, and goitre. The following year less emphasis was laid on discovering defects and
the entire staff united in an effort toward correcting those already noted. Practically every
child in the system was examined. At the same time one member specialized on hunting for tuberculosis
cases and another on mental examinations of backward children.

In 1913-1914, the force was especially interested in the question of communicable disease and
the proportion of conjunctivitis, ring worm, impetigo, scabies, and pediculosis discovered
and treated was very large. As a natural accompaniment of this activity, the number of home
visits and school treatments decidedly increased. In addition, there was a notable rise in
the frequency with which parents came to the dispensary for conferences with the doctor about
their children.

The record for 1914-1915 shows a decrease in the number of home visits, which is partly accounted
for by the fact that the number of dispensary visits made by nurses has practically doubled.
The number of parent consultations with doctors has increased by one-half the record for 1914,
and in contrast with 500 health talks given to classes by nurses last year, we have 1,260 talks
by physicians and 4,431 by nurses to classes in 1914-1915.

This method of varied problems is unquestionably effective in promoting growth and maintaining
interest on the part of the staff. Care should be taken, however, to provide that within each
four-year period--twice during the eight years of school life--special emphasis be laid upon
the discovery and cure of each of the more important defects. How this emphasis should be distributed
is a matter best decided by the staff in conference. It might be found advisable to adopt a
plan whereby special attention is given to teeth, adenoids, tonsils, and glands in the lower
grades; posture and heart in the upper grades; and eyes, hearing, lungs, and nutrition straight
through the grades. Whatever plan is adopted must be the result of study, consultation, and
experiment, in an endeavor to find the most economical investment of effort on the part of
nurses and doctors in terms of results gained.

Speech defects are very common among children. At first they yield readily to treatment, but
if allowed to continue through the adolescent period the habit becomes fixed so that trying
to cure it is a difficult and often fruitless task. Judging from the experience of other cities,
about 200 boys and 800 girls in the Cleveland public school system are suffering from some
form of speech defect. There are few fields in which the medical inspection department has
such an opportunity for effective work and in which so little has been done. Effort should
be made to locate these children, and form them into groups for daily training, under the direction
of a teacher specially prepared to handle speech cases.

UNIFORM PROCEDURE

In the fall of 1914, the medical staff conducted a survey of its own efficiency. A committee
prepared questions concerning procedure, and secured answers from each member of the staff.
These answers were compared and discussed in staff meetings and uniform rules were finally
adopted for examinations and recording.

In line with this, the staff somewhat earlier prepared rules for reporting defects so that
all records may be compiled on the same basis. This standardization of work is an especially
noteworthy feature of the Cleveland system, and should furnish valuable suggestions to medical
inspection departments of other cities. A few of the rules adopted by the staff will serve
to indicate the nature of their work:

     Teeth--Report decayed first or second teeth, and reddened
     and inflamed gums. Do not report loose first teeth.

     Tonsils--Report cases with histories of recurrent
     tonsilitis, and where the size of the tonsils causes
     difficulty of swallowing or thick speech. Do not report
     moderately enlarged tonsils with no history of tonsilitis
     nor evidence of mechanical obstruction.

     Adenoids--Report mouth breathers with characteristic
     adenoid faces, convincing yourself as to diagnosis by having
     the pupil say "l, m, n, o, p." Do not try to confirm the
     diagnosis of adenoids by a digital examination of the
     nasopharynx.

     Glands--Report general glandular enlargement and cervical
     enlargement of the lymphatic glands accompanied by
     malnutrition and anemia. Do not report submaxillary
     enlargement in recurrent tonsilitis or carious teeth or
     post-cervical enlargement in pediculosis capitis, or in
     impetigo or eczema of the scalp.

As a result of rules such as these, a given report means the same thing to every member of
the staff; only important defects are stressed; and the effort to remedy them is concentrated
where it will be most effective. Statistics based on records such as these will be reliable
and may be used for scientific study.

VACCINATION

