But there is something at Providence less to be expected even than seventy-two manufactories
of jewelry: it is the largest manufactory of solid silver-ware in the world! In a city so elegant
and refined as Providence, where wealth is so real and stable, we should naturally expect to
find on the sideboards plenty of silver plate; but we were unprepared to discover there three
or four hundred skilful men making silver-ware for the rest of mankind, and all in one establishment,--that
of the Gorham Manufacturing Company. This is not only the largest concern of the kind in existence,
but it is the most complete. Every operation of the business, from the melting of the coin
out of which the ware is made, to the making of the packing-boxes in which it is conveyed to
New York, takes place in this one congregation of buildings. Nor do we hesitate to say, after
an attentive examination of the products of European taste, that the articles bearing the stamp
of this American house are not equalled by those imported. There is a fine simplicity and boldness
of outline about the forms produced here, together with an absence of useless and pointless
ornament, which render them at once more pleasing and more useful than any others we have seen.

It was while going over this interesting establishment, that the raspberry-jam incident recurred
to us. This thing, however, is both rich and rare; and yet the wonder remains how it got there.
It got there because, forty years ago, an honest man began there a business which has grown
steadily to this day. It got there just as all the rooted businesses of New England got where
we find them now. In the brief history of this one enterprise we may read the history of the
industry of New England. Not the less, however, ought the detailed history to be written; for
it would be a book full of every kind of interest and instruction.

It was an honest man, we repeat, who founded this establishment. We believe there is no house
of business of the first class in the world, of thirty years' standing, the success of which
is not clearly traceable to its serving the public with fidelity. An old clerk of Mr. A. T.
Stewart of New York informed us that, in the day of small things, many years ago, when Mr.
Stewart had only a retail dry-goods store of moderate extent, one of the rules of the establishment
was this: "Don't recommend goods; but never fail to point out defects." Now a man struggling
with the difficulties of a new business, who lays down a rule of that nature, must be either
a very honest or a very able man. He is likely to be both, for sterling ability is necessarily
honest. It is not surprising, therefore, that Mr. Stewart is now the monarch of the dry-goods
trade in the world; and we fully believe that the history of all lasting success would disclose
a similar root of honesty. In all the businesses which have to do with the precious metals
and precious stones, honesty is the prime necessity; because in them, though it is the easiest
thing in the world to cheat, the cheat is always capable of being detected and proved. A great
silver-house holds itself bound to take back an article of plate made forty years ago, if it
is discovered that the metal is not equal in purity to the standard of the silver coin of the
country in which it was made. The entire and perfect natural honesty, therefore, of Jabez Gorham,
was the direct cause of the prosperity of the house which he founded. He is now a serene and
healthy man of eighty-two, long ago retired from business. He walks about the manufactory,
mildly wondering at the extent to which its operations have extended. "It is grown past me,"
he says with a smile; "I know nothing about all this."

In the year 1805, this venerable old man was an apprentice to that Mr. Dodge who began in Providence
the manufacture of ear-rings, breastpins, and rings,--the only articles made by the Providence
jewellers for many years. In due time Jabez Gorham set up for himself; and he added to the
list of articles the important item of watch-chains of a peculiar pattern, long known in New
England as the "Gorham chain." The old gentleman gives an amusing account of the simple manner
in which business was done in those days. When he had manufactured a trunkful of jewelry, he
would jog away with it to Boston, where, after depositing the trunk in his room, he would go
round to all the jewellers in the city to inform them of his arrival, and to say that his jewelry
would be ready in his room for inspection on the following morning at ten o'clock, and not
before. Before the appointed hour every jeweller in the town would be at his door; but as it
was a point of honor to give them all an equal chance, no one was admitted till the clock struck,
when all pushed in in a body. The jewelry was spread out on the bed, around which all the jewellers
of Boston, in 1820, could gather without crowding. Each man began by placing his hat in some
convenient place, and it was in his hat that he deposited the articles selected by him for
purchase. When the whole stock had been transferred from the bed to the several hats, Mr. Gorham
took a list of the contents of each; whereupon the jewellers packed their purchases, and carried
them home. In the course of the day, the bills were made out; and the next morning Mr. Gorham
went his rounds and collected the money. The business being thus happily concluded, he returned
to Providence, to work uninterruptedly for another six months. In this manner, Jabez Gorham
conducted business for sixteen years, before he ever thought of attempting silver-ware. Such
was his reputation for scrupulous honesty, that, for many years before he left the business,
none of his customers ever subjected his work to any test whatever, not even to that of a pair
of scales. It is his boast, that, during the whole of his business career of more than half
a century, he never sold an article of a lower standard of purity than the one established
by law or by the nature of the precious metals.

About the year 1825, some Boston people discovered that a tolerable silver spoon could be made
much thinner than the custom of the trade had previously permitted, and that these thin spoons
could be sold by pedlers very advantageously. The consequence of this discovery was, that silver
spoons became an article of manufacture in Boston, whence pedlers conveyed them to the remotest
nooks of New England. One day, in 1830, the question occurred to Jabez Gorham, Why not make
spoons in Providence, and sell them to the pedlers who buy our jewelry? The next time he took
his trunk of trinkets to Boston, he looked about him for a man who knew something of the art
of spoon-making. One such he found, a young man just "out of his time," whom he took back with
him to Providence, where he established him in an odd corner of his jewelry shop. In this small
way, thirty-seven years ago, the business began which has grown to be the largest and most
complete manufactory of silver-ware in the world. For the first ten years he made nothing but
spoons, thimbles, and silver combs, with an occasional napkin-ring, if any one in Providence
was bold enough to order one. Businesses grew very slowly in those days. It was thought a grand
success when Jabez Gorham, after nearly twenty years' exertion, had fifteen men employed in
making spoons, forks, thimbles, napkin-rings, children's mugs, and such small ware. Nor would
Mr. Gorham, of his own motion, have ever carried the business much farther; certainly not to
the point of producing articles that approach the rank of works of art. We have heard the old
gentleman say, that he often stood at a store-window in Boston, wondering by what process certain
operations were performed in silver, the results of which he saw before him in the form of
pitchers and teapots.

But in due course of time Mr. John Gorham, the present head of the house, eldest son of the
founder, came upon the scene,--an aspiring, ingenious young man, whose nature it was to excel
in anything in which he might chance to engage. The silversmith's art was then so little known
in the United States that neither workmen nor information could be obtained here in its higher
branches. Mr. John Gorham crossed the ocean soon after coming of age, and examined every leading
silver establishment in Europe. He was freely admitted everywhere, as no one in the business
had ever thought of America as a possible competitor; still less did any one see in this quiet
Yankee youth the person who was to annihilate the American demand for European, silver-ware,
and produce articles which famous European houses would servilely copy. From the time of Mr.
John Gorham's return dates the eminence of the present company, and of the production of the
costlier kinds of silver-ware, on a great scale, in the United States. From first to last,
the company have induced sixty-three accomplished workmen to come from Europe and settle in
Providence, some of whom might not unjustly be enrolled in the list of artists.

The war gave an amazing development to this business, as it did to all others ministering to
pleasure or the sense of beauty. When the war began, in 1861, the Gorham Company employed about
one hundred and fifty men; and in 1864 this number had increased to four hundred, all engaged
in making articles of solid silver. Even with this great force the company were sometimes unable
to supply the demand for their beautiful products. On Christmas morning, 1864, there was left
in the store in Maiden Lane, New York, but seven dollars' worth of ware, out of an average
stock of one hundred thousand dollars' worth. Perhaps we ought not to be surprised at this.
Consider our silver weddings. It is not unusual for several thousands of dollars' worth of
silver to be presented on these occasions,--in one recent instance, sixteen thousand dollars'
worth was given. And what lady can be married, now-a-days, without having a few pounds of silver
given to her? For Christmas presents, of course, silver-ware is always among the objects dangerous
to the sanity of those who go forth, just before the holidays, with a limited purse and unlimited
desires.

What particularly surprises the visitor to the Gorham works at Providence is to see labor-saving
machinery--the ponderous steam-hammer, the stamping and rolling apparatus--employed in silver
work, instead of the baser metals to which they are usually applied. Nothing is done by hand
which can be done by machinery; so that the three hundred men usually employed in solid ware
are in reality doing the work of a thousand. The first operation is to buy silver coin in Wall
Street. In a bag of dollars there are always some bad pieces; and as the company embark their
reputation in every silver vessel that leaves the factory, and are always responsible for its
purity, each dollar is wrenched asunder and its goodness positively ascertained before it is
thrown into the crucible. The subsequent operations, by which these spoiled dollars are converted
into objects of brilliant and enduring beauty, can better be imagined than described.

New forms of beauty are the constant study of the artist in silver. One large apartment in
the Gorham establishment--the artists' room--is a kind of magazine or storehouse of beautiful
forms, which have been gathered in the course of years by Mr. George Wilkinson, the member
of the company who has charge of the designing, and who is himself a designer of singular taste,
fertility, and judgment. Here are deposited copies or drawings of all the former products of
the establishment. Here is a large and most costly library of illustrated works in every department
of art and science. Mr. Wilkinson gets ideas from works upon botany, sculpture, landscape,--from
ancient bas-reliefs and modern porcelain; but, more frequently, from those large volumes which
exhibit the glories of architecture. "The first requisite," he maintains, "of a good piece
of silver-plate is that it be well built." The artist in silver has also to keep constantly
in view the practical and commercial limitations of his art. The forms which he designs must
be such as can be executed with due economy of labor and material, such as can be easily cleaned,
and such as will please the taste of the silver-purchasing public. It is by his skill in complying
with these inexorable conditions, while producing forms of real excellence, that Mr. Wilkinson
has given such celebrity to the articles made by the company to which he belongs.

Few of us, however, will ever be able to buy the dinner-sets, the tea-sets, the gorgeous salvers,
and the tall épergnes with which the warerooms of this manufactory are filled. A silver salver
of large size costs a thousand dollars. A complete dinner-set for a party of twenty-four costs
twelve thousand dollars. The price of a nice tea-set can easily run into three thousand dollars.
We noticed one small vase (six or eight inches high) exquisitely chased on two sides, which
Mr. Wilkinson assured us it cost the company about seven hundred dollars to produce. There
are, as yet, but two or three persons in all America who would be likely to become purchasers
of the articles in silver which rank in Europe as works of art, and which are strictly entitled
to that distinction. The wonder is who buys the massive utilities that are stacked away in
such profusion in Maiden Lane. The Gorham Company have always in course of manufacture about
three tons of silver, and usually have a ton of finished work for sale.

An important branch of their business is one recently introduced,--the manufacture of a very
superior kind of plated ware, intended to combine the strength of baser metal with the beauty
of silver. The manufacture of such ware has attained great development in England of late years,
owing chiefly to the application of the mysterious power of electricity to the laying-on of
the silver. We must discourse a little upon this admirable application of science to the arts.

Hamlet amused his friend Horatio by tracing the noble dust of Alexander till he found it stopping
a bunghole. If we trace the course of discovery that resulted in this beautiful art, we shall
have to reverse Hamlet's order: we must begin with the homely object, and end with magnificent
ones. Electroplating, electrotyping, the electric telegraph, and many other arts and wonders,
all go back to that dish of frogs which the amiable and fond Professor Galvani was preparing
for his sick wife's dinner one day, about the year 1787. It was a curious reflection, when
we were illuminating our houses to celebrate the laying of the first Atlantic cable, that this
bewildering and unique triumph of man over nature had no more illustrious origin than the legs
of an Italian frog. We are aware that the honor has been claimed for a Neapolitan mouse. There
is a story in the books of a mouse in Naples that had the impudence, in 1786, to bite the leg
of a professor of medicine, and was caught in the act by the professor himself, who punished
his audacity by dissecting him. While doing so, he observed that, when he touched a nerve of
the creature with his knife, its limbs were slightly convulsed. The professor was struck with
the circumstance, was puzzled by it, mentioned it, and it was recorded; but as nothing further
came of it, no connection can be established between that mouse and the splendors of silver-plated
ware and the wonders of the telegraph. The claims of Professor Galvani's frog rest upon a sure
foundation of fact. Signora Galvani--so runs one version of the story--lay sick upon a couch
in a room in which there was that chaos of domestic utensils and philosophical apparatus that
may still be observed sometimes in the abodes of men addicted to science. The Professor himself
had prepared the frogs for the stew-pan, and left them upon a table near the conductor of an
electrical machine. A student, while experimenting with the machine, chanced to touch with
a steel instrument one of the frogs at the intersection of the legs. The sick lady observed
that, as often as he did so, the legs were convulsed, or, as we now say, were galvanized. Upon
her husband's return to the room, she mentioned this strange thing to him, and he immediately
repeated the experiment.

From 1760 to 1790, as the reader is probably aware, all the scientific world was on the qui
vive with regard to electricity. The most brilliant reputations of that century had been won
by electric discoveries. Franklin was still alive, to reward with his benignant approval those
who should contribute anything valuable after his own immense additions to man's knowledge
of this alluring and baffling element. It was, therefore, as much the spirit of the time as
the genius of the man, that made Galvani seize this new fact with eagerness, and investigate
it with untiring enthusiasm. It was a sad day for the frogs of the Pope's dominions when Signora
Galvani observed those two naked legs fly apart and crook themselves with so much animation.
There was slaughter in the swamps of Bologna for many a month thereafter. For mankind, however,
it was a day to be held in everlasting remembrance, since it was then that was taken the first
step toward the galvanic battery!

As fortune favors the brave, so accident aids the ingenious. After Professor Galvani had touched
the muscles and nerves of many frogs with the spark drawn from the electrical machine, another
accident occurred which led directly to the discovery of the galvanic battery. Having skinned
a frog, he chanced to hang it by a copper hook upon an iron nail; and thus, without knowing
it, he brought together the elements of a battery,--two metals and a wet frog. His object in
hanging up this frog was to see if the electricity of the atmosphere would produce any effects,
however slight, similar to those produced when the spark of the machine was applied to the
creature. It did not. After watching his frog awhile, the Professor was proceeding to take
it down, and while in the act of doing so the legs were convulsed! Struck with this occurrence,
he replaced the frog, took it down again, put it back, took it down, until he discovered that,
as often as the damp frog (still hanging upon its copper hook) touched the iron nail, the contraction
of the muscles took place, as if the frog had been touched by a conductor connected with an
electrical machine. This experiment was repeated hundreds of times, and varied in as many ways
as mortal ingenuity could devise. Galvani at length settled down upon the method following:
he wrapped the nerves taken from the loins of a frog in a leaf of tin, and placed the legs
of the frog upon a plate of copper; then, as often as the leaf of tin was brought in contact
with the plate of copper, the legs of the frog were convulsed.

People regard Charles Lamb's story of the discovery of roast pig as a most extravagant and
impossible fiction; but, really, Professor Galvani comported himself very much in the manner
of that great discoverer. It was no more necessary to employ the frog's nerves in the production
of the electricity, than it was necessary to burn down a house in roasting pig for dinner.
The poor frog contributed nothing to it but his dampness,--as every boy in a telegraph office
now perceives. He was merely the wet in the small galvanic battery. Professor Galvani, however,
exulting in his discovery, leaped to the conclusion that this electricity was not the same
as that produced by friction. He thought he had discovered the long-sought something by which
the muscles move obedient to the will. "All creatures," he wrote, "have an electricity inherent
in their economy, which resides specially in the nerves, and is by the nerves communicated
to the whole body. It is secreted by the brain. The interior substance of the nerves is endowed
with a conducting power for this electricity, and facilitates its movement and its passage
from one part of the nervous system to another; while the oily coating of these organs hinders
the dissipation of the fluid, and permits its accumulation." He also thought that the muscles
were the Leyden jars of the animal system, in which the electricity generated by the brain
and conducted by the nerves was hoarded up for use. When a man was tired, he had merely used
his electricity too fast; when he was fresh, his Leyden jars were all full.

The publication of these experiments in 1791, accompanied by Galvani's theory of animal electricity,
produced a sensation in scientific circles only inferior to that caused by Franklin's demonstration
of the identity of lightning with electricity, thirty years before. The murder of innocent
frogs extended from the marshes of Bologna to the swamps of all Christendom. "Wherever," says
a writer of the time, "frogs were to be found and two different metals could be procured, every
one was anxious to see the mangled limbs of frogs brought to life in this wonderful way." Or,
as Lamb says, in the dissertation upon Roast Pig: "The thing took wing, and now there was nothing
to be seen but fire in every direction." At first the facts and the theory of Galvani were
equally accepted; and a grateful world insisted upon styling the new science, as it was deemed,
"Galvanism." Thus a word was added to all the languages, which has been found useful in its
literal sense, and forcible in its figurative. Whatever we may think of Galvani's philosophy,
we cannot deny that he immortalized his name. He died a few years after, fully satisfied with
his theory, but having no suspicion of the many, the peculiar, the marvellous results that
were to flow from the chance discovery of the fact, that a moist frog placed between two different
metals was a kind of electrical machine.

Among the Italians who caught at Galvani's discovery, the most skilful and learned was Professor
Volta, of Como, who had been an ardent electrician from his youth. Many of our readers have
seen this year the colossal statue of that great man, which adorns his native city on the southern
shore of the lake. The statue was worthily decreed, because the matt who contributes ever so
little to a grand discovery in science--provided that little is essential to it--ranks among
the greatest benefactors of his species. And what did the admirable Volta discover? Reducing
the labors of his long life to their simplest expression, we should say that his just claim
to immortality consists in this,--he found out that the frog had nothing to do with the production
of electricity in Galvani's experiment, but that a wet card or rag would do as well. This discovery
was the central fact of his scientific career of sixty-four years. It took all of his familiar
knowledge of electricity, acquired in twenty-seven years of entire devotion to the study, to
enable him to interpret Galvani's apparatus so far as to get rid of the frog; and he spent
the remaining thirty-seven years of his existence in varying the experiment thus freed from
that "demd, damp, moist, unpleasant body." It was a severe affliction to the followers of Galvani
and to the University of Bologna to have their darling theory of the nervous electricity so
rudely yet so unanswerably refuted. "I do not need your frog!" exclaimed the too impetuous
Volta. "Give me two metals and a moist rag, and I will produce your animal electricity. Your
frog is nothing but a moist conductor, and in this respect is not as good as a wet rag." This
was a decisive fact, and it silenced all but a few of the disciples of the dead Galvani.

Volta was led to discard the frog by observing that no electric results followed when the two
plates were of the same metal. Suspecting from this that the frog was merely a conductor (instead
of the generator) of the electric fluid, he tried the experiment with a wet card placed between
two pairs of plates, and thus discovered that the secret lay in the metals being heterogeneous.
But it cost thousands of experiments to reach this result, and ten years of ceaseless thought
and exertion to arrive at the invention of the "pile," which merely consists of many pairs
of heterogeneous plates, each separated by a moist substance. The weight of so much metal squeezed
the wet cloth dry, and this led to various contrivances for keeping it wet, resulting at last
in the invention of the familiar "trough-battery," now employed in all telegraph offices and
manufactories of electro-anything. Instead of Galvani's frog or Volta's wet rag, the conductor
is a solution of sulphuric acid, which Volta himself suggested and employed. The negative electricity
is conveyed to the earth by a wire, and the positive is conducted from pair to pair, increasing
as it goes, until, if the battery is large enough, it may have the force to send a message
round the world. And the current is continuous. The galvanic battery is an electrical machine
that goes without turning a handle. By the galvanic battery, electricity is made subservient
to man. Among other things, it sends his messages, faces his type with copper, silvers his
coffee-pot, and coats the inside of his baby's silver mug with shining gold.

The old methods of covering metals with a plating of silver were so difficult and laborious,
that durable ware could never have been produced by them except at an expense which would have
defeated the object. In those slow and costly ways plated articles were made as late as the
year 1840; and thus they might be made at the present moment, if Signora Galvani had been looking
the other way when the student touched the frog with his knife. More than fifty years elapsed
before that chance discovery was made available in the art we are considering. For many years
the discoveries of Galvani and Volta did not appear to add much to the resources of man, though
they excited his "special wonder," Elderly readers can perhaps remember the appalling accounts
that used to be published, forty years ago or more, of the galvanizing of criminals after execution.
In 1811, at Glasgow, a noted chemist tried the effect of a voltaic "pile" of two hundred and
seventy pairs of plates upon the body of a murderer. As the various parts of the nervous system
were subjected to the current, the most startling results followed. The whole body shuddered
as with cold; one of the legs nearly kicked an attendant over; the chest heaved, and the lungs
inhaled and exhaled. At one time, when all the power of the instrument was exerted, we are
told that "every muscle of the countenance was simultaneously thrown into fearful action. Rage,
horror, despair and anguish, and ghastly smiles, united their hideous expression on the murderer's
face, surpassing far the wildest representations of a Fuseli or a Kean. At this period several
of the spectators were obliged to leave the room from terror or sickness, and one gentleman
fainted." The bodies of horses, oxen, and sheep were galvanized, with results the most surprising.
Five men were unable to hold the leg of a horse subjected to the action of a powerful battery.

So far as we know, nothing of much importance has yet been inferred from such experiments as
these. Davy and Faraday, however, and their pupils, did not confine their attention to these
barren wonders. Sir Humphry Davy took the "pile" as invented by Volta, in 1800, and founded
by its assistance what may be styled a new science, and developed it to the point where it
became available for the arts and utilities of man. The simple and easy process by which silver
and gold are decomposed, and then deposited upon metallic surfaces, is only one of many ways
in which the galvanic battery ministers to our convenience and pleasure. If the reader will
step into a manufactory of plated ware, he will see, in the plating-room, a trough containing
a liquid resembling tea as it comes from the teapot. Avoiding scientific terms, we may say
that this liquid is a solution of silver, and contains about four ounces of silver to a gallon
of water. There are also thin plates of silver hanging along the sides of the trough into the
liquid. The galvanic battery which is to set this apparatus in motion is in a closet near by.
The vessels to be plated, after being thoroughly cleaned and exactly weighed, are suspended
in the liquid by a wire running along the top of the trough. When all is ready, the current
of electricity generated by the small battery in the closet is made to pass through the trough,
and along all the metallic surfaces therein contained. When this has been done, the spectator
may look with all his eyes, but he cannot perceive that anything is going on. There is no bubbling,
nor fizzing, nor any other noise or motion. The long row of vessels hang silently at their
wire, immersed in their tea, and nobody appears to pay any attention to them. And so they continue
to hang for hours,--for five or six or seven hours, if the design is to produce work which
will answer some other purpose than selling. All this time a most wonderful and mysterious
process is going on. That gentle current of electricity, noiseless and invisible as it is,
is taking the silver held in the solution, and laying it upon the surfaces of those vessels,
within and without; and at the same time it is decomposing the plates of silver hanging along
the sides of the trough in such a way as to keep up the strength of the solution. We cannot
recover from the wonder into which the contemplation of this process threw us. There are some
things which the outside and occasional observer can never be done marvelling at. For our part,
we never hear the click of a telegraphic apparatus without experiencing the same spasm of astonishment
as when we were first introduced to that mystery. The beautiful manner, too, in which this
silvering work is done! The most delicate brush in the most sympathetic hand could not lay
on the colors of the palette so evenly, nor could a crucible melt the metals into a completer
oneness.

