But of all those who were incommoded by the noisy and unseemly quarrels of these two ghosts,
James Owre or Gray, the tenant of the farm of Balbig of Delnabo, was the greatest sufferer.
From the proximity of his abode to their haunts, it was the misfortune of himself and family
to be the nightly audience of Clashnichd's cries and lamentations, which they considered anything
but agreeable entertainment.

One day as James Gray was on his rounds looking after his sheep, he happened to fall in with
Clashnichd, the ghost of Aulnaic, with whom he entered into a long conversation.  In the course
of it he took occasion to remonstrate with her on the very disagreeable disturbance she caused
himself and family by her wild and unearthly cries--cries which, he said, few mortals could
relish in the dreary hours of midnight.  Poor Clashnichd, by way of apology for her conduct,
gave James Gray a sad account of her usage, detailing at full length the series of cruelties
committed upon her by Ben Baynac.  From this account, it appeared that her living with the
latter was by no means a matter of choice with Clashnichd; on the contrary, it seemed that
she had, for a long time, lived apart with much comfort, residing in a snug dwelling, as already
mentioned, in the wilds of Craig-Aulnaic; but Ben Baynac having unfortunately taken into his
head to pay her a visit, took a fancy, not to herself, but her dwelling, of which, in his own
name and authority, he took immediate possession, and soon after he expelled poor Clashnichd,
with many stripes, from her natural inheritance.  Not satisfied with invading and depriving
her of her just rights, he was in the habit of following her into her private haunts, not with
the view of offering her any endearments, but for the purpose of inflicting on her person every
torment which his brain could invent.

Such a moving relation could not fail to affect the generous heart of James Gray, who determined
from that moment to risk life and limb in order to vindicate the rights and avenge the wrongs
of poor Clashnichd, the ghost of Craig-Aulnaic.  He, therefore, took good care to interrogate
his new protegee touching the nature of her oppressor's constitution, whether he was of that
killable species of ghost that could be shot with a silver sixpence, or if there was any other
weapon that could possibly accomplish his annihilation.  Clashnichd informed him that she had
occasion to know that Ben Baynac was wholly invulnerable to all the weapons of man, with the
exception of a large mole on his left breast, which was no doubt penetrable by silver or steel;
but that, from the specimens she had of his personal prowess and strength, it were vain for
mere man to attempt to combat him.  Confiding, however, in his expertness as an archer--for
he was allowed to be the best marksman of the age--James Gray told Clashnichd he did not fear
him with all his might,--that he was a man; and desired her, moreover, next time the ghost
chose to repeat his incivilities to her, to apply to him, James Gray, for redress.

It was not long ere he had an opportunity of fulfilling his promises.  Ben Baynac having one
night, in the want of better amusement, entertained himself by inflicting an inhuman castigation
on Clashnichd, she lost no time in waiting on James Gray, with a full and particular account
of it. She found him smoking his cutty, for it was night when she came to him; but, notwithstanding
the inconvenience of the hour, James needed no great persuasion to induce him to proceed directly
along with Clashnichd to hold a communing with their friend, Ben Baynac, the great ghost. Clashnichd
was stout and sturdy, and understood the knack of travelling much better than our women do.
She expressed a wish that, for the sake of expedition, James Gray would suffer her to bear
him along, a motion to which the latter agreed; and a few minutes brought them close to the
scene of Ben Baynac's residence.  As they approached his haunt, he came forth to meet them,
with looks and gestures which did not at all indicate a cordial welcome.  It was a fine moonlight
night, and they could easily observe his actions.  Poor Clashnichd was now sorely afraid of
the great ghost.  Apprehending instant destruction from his fury, she exclaimed to James Gray
that they would be both dead people, and that immediately, unless James Gray hit with an arrow
the mole which covered Ben Baynac's heart.  This was not so difficult a task as James had hitherto
apprehended it.  The mole was as large as a common bonnet, and yet nowise disproportioned to
the natural size of the ghost's body, for he certainly was a great and a mighty ghost.  Ben
Baynac cried out to James Gray that he would soon make eagle's meat of him; and certain it
is, such was his intention, had not the shepherd so effectually stopped him from the execution
of it.  Raising his bow to his eye when within a few yards of Ben Baynac, he took deliberate
aim; the arrow flew--it hit--a yell from Ben Baynac announced the result.  A hideous howl re-echoed
from the surrounding mountains, responsive to the groans of a thousand ghosts; and Ben Baynac,
like the smoke of a shot, vanished into air.

Clashnichd, the ghost of Aulnaic, now found herself emancipated from the most abject state
of slavery, and restored to freedom and liberty, through the invincible courage of James Gray.
Overpowered with gratitude, she fell at his feet, and vowed to devote the whole of her time
and talents towards his service and prosperity.  Meanwhile, being anxious to have her remaining
goods and furniture removed to her former dwelling, whence she had been so iniquitously expelled
by Ben Baynac, the great ghost, she requested of her new master the use of his horses to remove
them.  James observing on the adjacent hill a flock of deer, and wishing to have a trial of
his new servant's sagacity or expertness, told her those were his horses--she was welcome to
the use of them; desiring that when she had done with them, she would inclose them in his stable.
Clashnichd then proceeded to make use of the horses, and James Gray returned home to enjoy
his night's rest.

Scarce had he reached his arm-chair, and reclined his cheek on his hand, to ruminate over the
bold adventure of the night, when Clashnichd entered, with her "breath in her throat," and
venting the bitterest complaints at the unruliness of his horses, which had broken one-half
of her furniture, and caused her more trouble in the stabling of them than their services were
worth.

"Oh! they are stabled, then?" inquired James Gray.  Clashnichd replied in the affirmative.
"Very well," rejoined James, "they shall be tame enough to-morrow."

From this specimen of Clashnichd, the ghost of Craig-Aulnaic's expertness, it will be seen
what a valuable acquisition her service proved to James Gray and his young family.  They were,
however, speedily deprived of her assistance by a most unfortunate accident.  From the sequel
of the story, from which the foregoing is an extract, it appears that poor Clashnichd was deeply
addicted to propensities which at that time rendered her kin so obnoxious to their human neighbours.
She was constantly in the habit of visiting her friends much oftener than she was invited,
and, in the course of such visits, was never very scrupulous in making free with any eatables
which fell within the circle of her observation.

One day, while engaged on a foraging expedition of this description, she happened to enter
the Mill of Delnabo, which was inhabited in those days by the miller's family.  She found his
wife engaged in roasting a large gridiron of fine savoury fish, the agreeable smell proceeding
from which perhaps occasioned her visit.  With the usual inquiries after the health of the
miller and his family, Clashnichd proceeded with the greatest familiarity and good-humour to
make herself comfortable at their expense. But the miller's wife, enraged at the loss of her
fish, and not relishing such unwelcome familiarity, punished the unfortunate Clashnichd rather
too severely for her freedom.  It happened that there was at the time a large caldron of boiling
water suspended over the fire, and this caldron the enraged wife overturned in Clashnichd's bosom!

Scalded beyond recovery, she fled up the wilds of Craig-Aulnaic, uttering the most melancholy
lamentations, nor has she been ever heard of since.

THE DOOMED RIDER.

"The Conan is as bonny a river as we hae in a' the north country.  There's mony a sweet sunny
spot on its banks, an' mony a time an' aft hae I waded through its shallows, whan a boy, to
set my little scautling-line for the trouts an' the eels, or to gather the big pearl-mussels
that lie sae thick in the fords.  But its bonny wooded banks are places for enjoying the day
in--no for passing the nicht.  I kenna how it is; it's nane o' your wild streams that wander
desolate through a desert country, like the Aven, or that come rushing down in foam and thunder,
ower broken rocks, like the Foyers, or that wallow in darkness, deep, deep in the bowels o'
the earth, like the fearfu' Auldgraunt; an' yet no ane o' these rivers has mair or frightfuller
stories connected wi' it than the Conan.  Ane can hardly saunter ower half-a-mile in its course,
frae where it leaves Coutin till where it enters the sea, without passing ower the scene o'
some frightful auld legend o' the kelpie or the waterwraith.  And ane o' the most frightful
looking o' these places is to be found among the woods of Conan House.  Ye enter a swampy meadow
that waves wi' flags an' rushes like a corn-field in harvest, an' see a hillock covered wi'
willows rising like an island in the midst.  There are thick mirk-woods on ilka side; the river,
dark an' awesome, an' whirling round an' round in mossy eddies, sweeps away behind it; an'
there is an auld burying-ground, wi' the broken ruins o' an auld Papist kirk, on the tap. 
Ane can see amang the rougher stanes the rose-wrought mullions of an arched window, an' the
trough that ance held the holy water.  About twa hunder years ago--a wee mair maybe, or a wee
less, for ane canna be very sure o' the date o' thae old stories--the building was entire;
an' a spot near it, whar the wood now grows thickest, was laid out in a corn-field.  The marks
o' the furrows may still be seen amang the trees.

"A party o' Highlanders were busily engaged, ae day in harvest, in cutting down the corn o'
that field; an' just aboot noon, when the sun shone brightest an' they were busiest in the
work, they heard a voice frae the river exclaim:--'The hour but not the man has come.'  Sure
enough, on looking round, there was the kelpie stan'in' in what they ca' a fause ford, just
fornent the auld kirk.  There is a deep black pool baith aboon an' below, but i' the ford there's
a bonny ripple, that shows, as ane might think, but little depth o' water; an' just i' the
middle o' that, in a place where a horse might swim, stood the kelpie. An' it again repeated
its words:--'The hour but not the man has come,' an' then flashing through the water like a
drake, it disappeared in the lower pool.  When the folk stood wondering what the creature might
mean, they saw a man on horseback come spurring down the hill in hot haste, making straight
for the fause ford.  They could then understand her words at ance; an' four o' the stoutest
o' them sprang oot frae amang the corn to warn him o' his danger, an' keep him back.  An' sae
they tauld him what they had seen an' heard, an' urged him either to turn back an' tak' anither
road, or stay for an hour or sae where he was.  But he just wadna hear them, for he was baith
unbelieving an' in haste, an' wauld hae taen the ford for a' they could say, hadna the Highlanders,
determined on saving him whether he would or no, gathered round him an' pulled him frae his
horse, an' then, to mak' sure o' him, locked him up in the auld kirk. Weel, when the hour had
gone by--the fatal hour o' the kelpie--they flung open the door, an' cried to him that he might
noo gang on his journey. Ah! but there was nae answer, though; an' sae they cried a second
time, an' there was nae answer still; an' then they went in, an' found him lying stiff an'
cauld on the floor, wi' his face buried in the water o' the very stone trough that we may still
see amang the ruins.  His hour had come, an' he had fallen in a fit, as 'twould seem, head-foremost
amang the water o' the trough, where he had been smothered,--an' sae ye see, the prophecy o'
the kelpie availed naething."

WHIPPETY STOURIE.

There was once a gentleman that lived in a very grand house, and he married a young lady that
had been delicately brought up.  In her husband's house she found everything that was fine--fine
tables and chairs, fine looking-glasses, and fine curtains; but then her husband expected her
to be able to spin twelve hanks o' thread every day, besides attending to her house; and, to
tell the even-down truth, the lady could not spin a bit.  This made her husband glunchy with
her, and, before a month had passed, she found hersel' very unhappy.

One day the husband gaed away upon a journey, after telling her that he expected her, before
his return, to have not only learned to spin, but to have spun a hundred hanks o' thread. 
Quite downcast, she took a walk along the hillside, till she cam' to a big flat stane, and
there she sat down and grat.  By and by she heard a strain o' fine sma' music, coming as it
were frae aneath the stane, and, on turning it up, she saw a cave below, where there were sitting
six wee ladies in green gowns, ilk ane o' them spinning on a little wheel, and singing,

   "Little kens my dame at hame
   That Whippety Stourie is my name."

The lady walked into the cave, and was kindly asked by the wee bodies to take a chair and sit
down, while they still continued their spinning.  She observed that ilk ane's mouth was thrawn
away to ae side, but she didna venture to speer the reason.  They asked why she looked so unhappy,
and she telt them that it was she was expected by her husband to be a good spinner, when the
plain truth was that she could not spin at all, and found herself quite unable for it, having
been so delicately brought up; neither was there any need for it, as her husband was a rich man.

"Oh, is that a'?" said the little wifies, speaking out of their cheeks alike.

"Yes, and is it not a very good a' too?" said the lady, her heart like to burst wi' distress.

"We could easily quit ye o' that trouble," said the wee women.  "Just ask us a' to dinner for
the day when your husband is to come back.  We'll then let you see how we'll manage him."

So the lady asked them all to dine with herself and her husband, on the day when he was to
come back.

When the gudeman came hame, he found the house so occupied with preparations for dinner, that
he had nae time to ask his wife about her thread; and, before ever he had ance spoken to her
on the subject, the company was announced at the hall door.  The six ladies all came in a coach-and-six,
and were as fine as princesses, but still wore their gowns of green.  The gentleman was very
polite, and showed them up the stair with a pair of wax candles in his hand.  And so they all
sat down to dinner, and conversation went on very pleasantly, till at length the husband, becoming
familiar with them, said--

"Ladies, if it be not an uncivil question, I should like to know how it happens that all your
mouths are turned away to one side?"

"Oh," said ilk ane at ance, "it's with our constant spin-spin-spinning."

"Is that the case?" cried the gentleman; "then, John, Tam, and Dick, fie, go haste and burn
every rock, and reel, and spinning-wheel in the house, for I'll not have my wife to spoil her
bonnie face with spin-spin-spinning."

And so the lady lived happily with her gudeman all the rest of her days.

THE WEIRD OF THE THREE ARROWS.

Sir James Douglas, the companion of Bruce, and well known by his appellation of the "Black
Douglas," was once, during the hottest period of the exterminating war carried on by him and
his colleague Randolph, against the English, stationed at Linthaughlee, near Jedburgh.  He
was resting, himself and his men after the toils of many days' fighting-marches through Teviotdale;
and, according to his custom, had walked round the tents, previous to retiring to the unquiet
rest of a soldier's bed.  He stood for a few minutes at the entrance to his tent contemplating
the scene before him, rendered more interesting by a clear moon, whose silver beams fell, in
the silence of a night without a breath of wind, calmly on the slumbers of mortals destined
to mix in the melee of dreadful war, perhaps on the morrow.  As he stood gazing, irresolute
whether to retire to rest or indulge longer in a train of thought not very suitable to a warrior
who delighted in the spirit-stirring scenes of his profession, his eye was attracted by the
figure of an old woman, who approached him with a trembling step, leaning on a staff, and holding
in her left hand three English cloth-shaft arrows.

"You are he who is ca'ed the guid Sir James?" said the old woman.

"I am, good woman," replied Sir James.  "Why hast thou wandered from the sutler's camp?"

"I dinna belang to the camp o' the hoblers," answered the woman.  "I hae been a residenter
in Linthaughlee since the day when King Alexander passed the door o' my cottage wi' his bonny
French bride, wha was terrified awa' frae Jedburgh by the death's-head whilk appeared to her
on the day o' her marriage.  What I hae suffered sin' that day" (looking at the arrows in her
hand) "lies between me an' heaven."

"Some of your sons have been killed in the wars, I presume?" said Sir James.

"Ye hae guessed a pairt o' my waes," replied the woman.  "That arrow" (holding out one of the
three) "carries on its point the bluid o' my first born; that is stained wi' the stream that
poured frae the heart o' my second; and that is red wi' the gore in which my youngest weltered,
as he gae up the life that made me childless.  They were a' shot by English hands, in different
armies, in different battles.  I am an honest woman, and wish to return to the English what
belongs to the English; but that in the same fashion in which they were sent.  The Black Douglas
has the strongest arm an' the surest ee in auld Scotland; an' wha can execute my commission
better than he?"

"I do not use the bow, good woman," replied Sir James.  "I love the grasp of the dagger or
the battle-axe.  You must apply to some other individual to return your arrows."

"I canna tak' them hame again," said the woman, laying them down at the feet of Sir James.
"Ye'll see me again on St. James' E'en."

The old woman departed as she said these words.

Sir James took up the arrows, and placed them in an empty quiver that lay amongst his baggage.
He retired to rest, but not to sleep.  The figure of the old woman and her strange request
occupied his thoughts, and produced trains of meditation which ended in nothing but restlessness
and disquietude.  Getting up at daybreak, he met a messenger at the entrance of his tent, who
informed him that Sir Thomas de Richmont, with a force of ten thousand men, had crossed the
Borders, and would pass through a narrow defile, which he mentioned, where he could be attacked
with great advantage.  Sir James gave instant orders to march to the spot; and, with that genius
for scheming, for which he was so remarkable, commanded his men to twist together the young
birch-trees on either side of the passage to prevent the escape of the enemy.  This finished,
he concealed his archers in a hollow way, near the gorge of the pass.

The enemy came on; and when their ranks were embarrassed by the narrowness of the road, and
it was impossible for the cavalry to act with effect, Sir James rushed upon them at the head
of his horsemen; and the archers, suddenly discovering themselves, poured in a flight of arrows
on the confused soldiers, and put the whole army to flight.  In the heat of the onset, Douglas
killed Sir Thomas de Richmont with his dagger.

Not long after this, Edmund de Cailon, a knight of Gascony, and Governor of Berwick, who had
been heard to vaunt that he had sought the famous Black Knight, but could not find him, was
returning to England, loaded with plunder, the fruit of an inroad on Teviotdale.  Sir James
thought it a pity that a Gascon's vaunt should be heard unpunished in Scotland, and made long
forced marches to satisfy the desire of the foreign knight, by giving him a sight of the dark
countenance he had made a subject of reproach.  He soon succeeded in gratifying both himself
and the Gascon. Coming up in his terrible manner, he called to Cailon to stop, and, before
he proceeded into England, receive the respects of the Black Knight he had come to find, but
hitherto had not met.  The Gascon's vaunt was now changed; but shame supplied the place of
courage, and he ordered his men to receive Douglas's attack.  Sir James assiduously sought
his enemy.  He at last succeeded; and a single combat ensued, of a most desperate character.
But who ever escaped the arm of Douglas when fairly opposed to him in single conflict?  Cailon
was killed; he had met the Black Knight at last.

"So much," cried Sir James, "for the vaunt of a Gascon!"

Similar in every respect to the fate of Cailon, was that of Sir Ralph Neville.  He, too, on
hearing the great fame of Douglas's prowess, from some of Gallon's fugitive soldiers, openly
boasted that he would fight with the Scottish Knight, if he would come and show his banner
before Berwick.  Sir James heard the boast and rejoiced in it.  He marched to that town, and
caused his men to ravage the country in front of the battlements, and burn the villages.  Neville
left Berwick with a strong body of men; and, stationing himself on a high ground, waited till
the rest of the Scots should disperse to plunder; but Douglas called in his detachment and
attacked the knight.  After a desperate conflict, in which many were slain, Douglas, as was
his custom, succeeded in bringing the leader to a personal encounter, and the skill of the
Scottish knight was again successful.  Neville was slain, and his men utterly discomfited.

Having retired one night to his tent to take some rest after so much pain and toil, Sir James
Douglas was surprised by the reappearance of the old woman whom he had seen at Linthaughlee.

"This is the feast o' St. James," said she, as she approached him.  "I said I would see ye
again this nicht, an' I'm as guid's my word.  Hae ye returned the arrows I left wi' ye to the
English wha sent them to the hearts o' my sons?"

"No," replied Sir James.  "I told ye I did not fight with the bow. Wherefore do ye importune
me thus?"

"Give me back the arrows then," said the woman.

Sir James went to bring the quiver in which he had placed them.  On taking them out, he was
surprised to find that they were all broken through the middle.

"How has this happened?" said he.  "I put these arrows in this quiver entire, and now they
are broken."

"The weird is fulfilled!" cried the old woman, laughing eldrichly, and clapping her hands.
"That broken shaft cam' frae a soldier o' Richmont's; that frae ane o' Cailon's, and that frae
ane o' Neville's. They are a' dead, an' I am revenged!"

The old woman then departed, scattering, as she went, the broken fragments of the arrows on
the floor of the tent.

THE LAIRD OF BALMACHIE'S WIFE.

In the olden times, when it was the fashion for gentlemen to wear swords, the Laird of Balmachie
went one day to Dundee, leaving his wife at home ill in bed.  Riding home in the twilight,
he had occasion to leave the high road, and when crossing between some little romantic knolls,
called the Cur-hills, in the neighbourhood of Carlungy, he encountered a troop of fairies supporting
a kind of litter, upon which some person seemed to be borne.  Being a man of dauntless courage,
and, as he said, impelled by some internal impulse, he pushed his horse close to the litter,
drew his sword, laid it across the vehicle, and in a firm tone exclaimed--

"In the name of God, release your captive."

The tiny troop immediately disappeared, dropping the litter on the ground.  The laird dismounted,
and found that it contained his own wife, dressed in her bedclothes.  Wrapping his coat around
her, he placed her on the horse before him, and, having only a short distance to ride, arrived
safely at home.

Placing her in another room, under the care of an attentive friend, he immediately went to
the chamber where he had left his wife in the morning, and there to all appearance she still
lay, very sick of a fever. She was fretful, discontented, and complained much of having been
neglected in his absence, at all of which the laird affected great concern, and pretending
much sympathy, insisted upon her rising to have her bed made.  She said that she was unable
to rise, but her husband was peremptory, and having ordered a large wood fire to warm the room,
he lifted the impostor from the bed, and bearing her across the floor as if to a chair, which
had been previously prepared, he threw her on the fire, from which she bounced like a sky-rocket,
and went through the ceiling, and out at the roof of the house, leaving a hole among the slates.
He then brought in his own wife, a little recovered from her alarm, who said, that sometime
after sunset, the nurse having left her for the purpose of preparing a little candle, a multitude
of elves came in at the window, thronging like bees from a hive.  They filled the room, and
having lifted her from the bed carried her through the window, after which she recollected
nothing further, till she saw her husband standing over her on the Cur-hills, at the back of
Carlungy.  The hole in the roof, by which the female fairy made her escape, was mended, but
could never be kept in repair, as a tempest of wind happened always once a year, which uncovered
that particular spot, without injuring any other part of the roof.

MICHAEL SCOTT.

In the early part of Michael Scott's life he was in the habit of emigrating annually to the
Scottish metropolis, for the purpose of being employed in his capacity of mason.  One time
as he and two companions were journeying to the place of their destination for a similar object,
they had occasion to pass over a high hill, the name of which is not mentioned, but which is
supposed to have been one of the Grampians, and being fatigued with climbing, they sat down
to rest themselves.  They had no sooner done so than they were warned to take to their heels
by the hissing of a large serpent, which they observed revolving itself towards them with great
velocity.  Terrified at the sight, Michael's two companions fled, while he, on the contrary,
resolved to encounter the reptile.  The appalling monster approached Michael Scott with distended
mouth and forked tongue; and, throwing itself into a coil at his feet, was raising its head
to inflict a mortal sting, when Michael, with one stroke of his stick, severed its body into
three pieces.  Having rejoined his affrighted comrades, they resumed their journey; and, on
arriving at the next public-house, it being late, and the travellers being weary, they took
up their quarters at it for the night.  In the course of the night's conversation, reference
was naturally made to Michael's recent exploit with the serpent, when the landlady of the house,
who was remarkable for her "arts," happened to be present.  Her curiosity appeared much excited
by the conversation; and, after making some inquiries regarding the colour of the serpent,
which she was told was white, she offered any of them that would procure her the middle piece
such a tempting reward, as induced one of the party instantly to go for it.  The distance was
not very great; and on reaching the spot, he found the middle and tail piece in the place where
Michael left them, but the head piece was gone.

The landlady on receiving the piece, which still vibrated with life, seemed highly gratified
at her acquisition; and, over and above the promised reward, regaled her lodgers very plentifully
with the choicest dainties in her house.  Fired with curiosity to know the purpose for which
the serpent was intended, the wily Michael Scott was immediately seized with a severe fit of
indisposition, which caused him to prefer the request that he might be allowed to sleep beside
the fire, the warmth of which, he affirmed, was in the highest degree beneficial to him.

Never suspecting Michael Scott's hypocrisy, and naturally supposing that a person so severely
indisposed would feel very little curiosity about the contents of any cooking utensils which
might lie around the fire, the landlady allowed his request.  As soon as the other inmates
of the house were retired to bed, the landlady resorted to her darling occupation; and, in
his feigned state of indisposition, Michael had a favourable opportunity of watching most scrupulously
all her actions through the keyhole of a door leading to the next apartment where she was.
He could see the rites and ceremonies with which the serpent was put into the oven, along with
many mysterious ingredients.  After which the unsuspicious landlady placed the dish by the
fireside, where lay the distressed traveller, to stove till the morning.

Once or twice in the course of the night the "wife of the change-house," under the pretence
of inquiring for her sick lodger, and administering to him some renovating cordials, the beneficial
effects of which he gratefully acknowledged, took occasion to dip her finger in her saucepan,
upon which the cock, perched on his roost, crowed aloud.  All Michael's sickness could not
prevent him considering very inquisitively the landlady's cantrips, and particularly the influence
of the sauce upon the crowing of the cock.  Nor could he dissipate some inward desires he felt
to follow her example.  At the same time, he suspected that Satan had a hand in the pie, yet
he thought he would like very much to be at the bottom of the concern; and thus his reason
and his curiosity clashed against each other for the space of several hours.  At length passion,
as is too often the case, became the conqueror.  Michael, too, dipped his finger in the sauce,
and applied it to the tip of his tongue, and immediately the cock perched on the spardan announced
the circumstance in a mournful clarion.  Instantly his mind received a new light to which he
was formerly a stranger, and the astonished dupe of a landlady now found it her interest to
admit her sagacious lodger into a knowledge of the remainder of her secrets.

