[170] XENOPHON, Anabasis, iii. 4, 7-11. The identity of Larissa and Mespila has been much discussed.
Oppert thinks they were Resen and Dour-Saryoukin; others that they were Calech and Nineveh.
The question is without importance to our inquiry. In any case the circumference of six parasangs
(about 20-1/2 miles) ascribed by the Greek writer to his Mespila can by no means be made to
fit Khorsabad.

[171] See the History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 113.

[172] BOTTA tells us how the courses of crude brick were distinguished one from another at
Khorsabad (Monuments de Ninive, vol. v. p. 57).

[173] Speaking of Hillah, GEORGE SMITH tells us (Assyrian Discoveries, p. 62):--"A little to
the south rose the town of Hillah, built with the bricks found in the old capital. The natives
have established a regular trade in these bricks for building purposes. A number of men are
always engaged in digging out the bricks from the ruins, while others convey them to the banks
of the Euphrates. There they are packed in rude boats, which float them down to Hillah, and
on being landed they are loaded on donkeys and taken to any place where building is in progress.
Every day when at Hillah I used to see this work going on as it had gone on for centuries,
Babylon thus slowly disappearing without an effort being made to ascertain the dimensions and
buildings of the city, or to recover what remains of its monuments. The northern portion of
the wall, outside the Babil mound, is the place where the work of destruction is now (1874)
most actively going on, and this in some places has totally disappeared."

[174] LAYARD, Discoveries, &c. p. 110.

[175] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 279. "The bricks had no mortar but the mud from which they
had been made," says BOTTA (Monuments de Ninive, vol. v. p. 30).

[176] LAYARD, Discoveries, &c. p. 503.

[177] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 499 and 506. This mortar is still employed in the country; it
is called kharour.

[179] The most plentiful springs occur at Hit, on the middle Euphrates. They are also found,
however, farther north, as at Kaleh-Shergat, near the Tigris. Over a wide stretch of country
in that district the bitumen wells up through every crack in the soil (LAYARD, Nineveh, vol.
ii. p. 46). As for the bituminous springs of Hammam-Ali, near Mossoul, see PLACE, Ninive et
l'Assyrie, vol. i. p. 236.

[180] Genesis xi. 3.

[181] HERODOTUS, i. 179.

[182] Warka, its Ruins and Remains, by W. KENNETH LOFTUS, p. 9. (In the Transactions of the
Royal Society of Literature, second series, Part I.) According to SIR HENRY RAWLINSON this
introduction of layers of reeds or rushes between the courses of brick continued in all this
region at least down to the Parthian epoch. Traces of it are to be found in the walls of Seleucia
and Ctesiphon (RAWLINSON'S Herodotus, vol. i. p. 300 note 1).

[183] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, i. p. 169. The abundance of bitumen in the ruins of Mugheir
is such that the modern name of the town has sprung from it; the word means the bituminous
(TAYLOR, Notes on the Ruins of Mugheir).

[184] PLACE, Ninive et l'Assyrie, vol. i. p. 236; LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 261.

[185] LOFTUS, Warka, its Ruins, &c. p. 10.

[186] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 29 and 248.

[187] TAYLOR, Notes on Abou-Sharein and Tell-el-Lahm (Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,
vol. xv. p. 408).

[188] BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. p. 58.

[189] NIEBUHR (Voyage en Arabie, vol. ii. p. 235) noticed this, and his observations have since
been confirmed by many other visitors to the ruins of Babylon. KER PORTER (vol. ii. p. 391)
noticed them in the ruins of Al-Heimar. See also TAYLOR on "Mugheir," &c. (Journal, &c. vol.
xv. p. 261). At Birs-Nimroud these conduits are about nine inches high and between five and
six wide. They are well shown in the drawing given by FLANDIN and COSTE of this ruin (Perse
ancienne et moderne, pl. 221. cf. text 1, p. 181).

[191] At Khorsabad the average height of the alabaster lining is about ten feet; above that
about three feet of brick wall remains.

[192] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. pp. 127 and 350; vol. ii. pp. 40 and 350. As to the traces of
fire at Khorsabad, see BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. p. 54.

[193] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. pp. 256-264.

[194] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, pp. 181-183.

[195] This accumulation has sometimes reached a height of about 24 feet. PLACE, Ninive, vol.
i. p. 294.

[196] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 293-294.

[197] E. FLANDIN, Voyage archéologique à Ninive. 1. L'Architecture assyrienne. 2. La Sculpture
assyrienne (Revue des Deux-Mondes, June 15 and July 1, 1845).

[198] For all that concerns this artist, one of the most skilful draughtsmen of our time, see
the biographical notice of M. de Girardot:--Felix Thomas, grand Prix de Rome Architecte, Peintre,
Graveur, Sculpteur (Nantes, 1875, 8vo.).

[199] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 249-269.

[200] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 254-255.

[201] Ibid. p. 246.

[202] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 264.

[203] Ibid. p. 265. RICH made similar observations at Bagdad. He noticed that the masons could
mount on the vault a few minutes after each course was completed (Narrative of a Journey to
the Site of Babylon).

[204] M. A. CHOISY, well known by his Essays on L'Art de bâtir chez les Romains, shows that
the same method was constantly used by the Byzantine architects. See his Note sur la Construction
des Voûtes sans cintrage pendant la Période byzantine (Annales des Ponts et Chausées, 1876,
second period, vol. xii.). See also Mr. FERGUSSON'S account of the erection of a huge stone
dome without centering of any kind, by an illiterate Maltese builder, at Mousta, near Valetta
(Handbook of Architecture, Second Edition, vol. iv. p. 34).--ED.

[205] STRABO, xvi. i. 5, Hoi oikoi kamarôtoi pantes dia tên axulian.

[206] For a description of these buildings see FLANDIN and COSTE, Voyage en Perse, Perse ancienne,
Text, pp. 24-27, and 41-43 (6 vols. folio, no date. The voyage in question took place in 1841
and 1842).

[207] Brick played, at least, by far the most important part in their construction. The domes
and arcades were of well-burnt brick; the straight walls were often built of broken stone,
when it was to be had in the neighbourhood. At Ctesiphon, on the other hand, the great building
known as the Takht-i-Khosrou is entirely of brick.

[208] See M. AUGUSTE CHOISY'S Note sur la Construction des Voûtes, &c. p. 14. This exact and
penetrating critic shares our belief in these relations between the Chaldæan east and Roman Asia.

[210] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 266-267.

[211] As M. CHOISY remarks (L'Art de bâtir chez les Romains, p. 80), each horizontal course,
being in the form of a ring, would have no tendency to collapse inwards, and a dome circular
on plan would demand some means for keeping its shape true rather than a resisting skeleton.

[212] Ninive, vol. i. p. 131.

[213] In both the examples here reproduced the sculptor has indicated the cords by which the
canvas walls were kept in place. We find almost the same profile in a bas-relief at Khorsabad
(BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, pl. 146), but there it is cut with less decision and there are
no cords. Between the two semi-domes the figure of a man rises above the wall to his middle,
suggesting the existence of a barbette within. Here the artist may have been figuring a house
rather than a tent.

[214] STRABO, xv. 3, 10.

[215] STRABO, xvi. 1, 5.

[216] Keramôi d' ou chrôntai, says Strabo. These words, as Letronne remarked à propos of this
passage, combine the ideas of a tiled roof and of one with a ridge. The one notion must be
taken with the other; hence we may infer that the Babylonian houses were flat-roofed.

[217] STRABO, ii. 5, 11.

[218] See M. AMÉDÉE TARDIEU'S reflections upon Strabo's method of work, in his Géographie de
Strabon (Hachette, 3 vols, 12mo.), vol. iii. p. 286, note 2.

[219] As to this singular people and their religious beliefs, the information contained in
the two works of Sir H. LAYARD (Nineveh, vol. 1. pp. 270-305, and Discoveries, pp. 40-92) will
be read with interest. Thanks to special circumstances Sir H. Layard was able to become more
intimately acquainted than any other traveller with this much-abused and cruelly persecuted
sect. He collected much valuable information upon doctrines which, even after his relation,
are not a little obscure and confused. The Yezidis have a peculiar veneration for the evil
principle, or Satan; they also seem to worship the sun. Their religion is in fact a conglomeration
of various survivals from the different systems that have successively obtained in that part
of Asia. They themselves have no clear idea of it as a whole. It would repay study by an archæologist
of religions.

[220] BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. p. 70.

[221] See above, page 118, note 1.

[222] Some rooms are as much as thirty feet wide. They would require joists at least thirty-three
feet long, a length that can hardly be admitted in view of the very mediocre quality of the
wood in common use.

[223] Gailhabaud, Monuments anciens et modernes, vol. i.; plate entitled Tombeaux superposés
à Corneto.

[224] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 309. In this passage M. Place affirms that Mr. Layard discovered
in a room of one of the Ninevite palaces, several openings cut at less than four feet above
the floor level. It is, moreover, certain that these openings were included in the original
plan of the building, because the reliefs are interrupted so as to leave room for the window
without injury to the scenes sculptured upon them; but, adds M. Place, this example is unique,
one of those exceptions that help to confirm a rule. We have in vain searched through the two
works of Sir Henry Layard for the statement alluded to by M. Place. The English explorer only
once mentions windows, and then he says: "Even in the rooms bounded by the outer walls there
is not the slightest trace of windows" (Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 260).

[225] BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. p. 73.

[226] FLANDIN et COSTE, Voyage en Perse; Perse ancienne, plates 28 and 29; and, in the text,
page 25. These openings occur in the great Sassanide palace at Ctesiphon, the Takht-i-Khosrou
(ibid. pl. 216, and text, p. 175). Here the terra-cotta pipes are about eight inches in diameter.
According to these writers similar contrivances are still in use in Persia.

[227] In the cupola of the palace at Sarbistan (Fig. 54), a window may be perceived in the
upper part of the vertical wall, between the pendentives of the dome. Such openings may well
have been pierced under Assyrian domes. From many of the illustrations we have given, it will
be seen that the Ninevite architects had no objection to windows, provided they could be placed
in the upper part of the wall. It is of windows like ours, pierced at a foot or two above the
ground, that no examples have been found.

[228] PLACE. Ninive, vol. i. pp. 312-314.

[229] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 313.

[230] Ibid. p. 310

[231] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 311.

[232] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 307.

[233] See BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. p. 53; Place, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 306, 307.

[234] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 15.

[235] TAYLOR, Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xv. p. 409.

[236] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 260.

[237] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 645-6.

[238] LAYARD, Monuments, &c., first series, plate 19. This relief is reproduced in PLACE, Ninive,
vol. iii. plate 40, fig. 6.

[239] British Museum; Kouyundjik Gallery, Nos. 34-43. See also LAYARD'S Monuments, plates 8
and 9.--ED.

[240] A second inclined gallery of the same kind was found by LAYARD in another of the Kouyundjik
palaces (Discoveries, p. 650).

[241] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 306, 307.

[242] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 140.

[243] As to the great size sometimes reached by the tents of the Arab chiefs, and the means
employed to divide them into several apartments, see LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 313, and the sketch
on page 321.

[244] There is a photographic reproduction of these interesting reliefs in the fine publication
undertaken by the Society of Biblical Archæology. This work, which is not yet (1883) complete,
is entitled The Bronze Ornaments of the Gates of Balawat, Shalmaneser II. 859-825, edited,
with an introduction, by Samuel BIRCH, with descriptions and translations by Theophilus G.
PINCHES, folio, London. The three first parts are before us. The motive reproduced above belongs
to the plate marked F, 5.

[245] They are to be found on the sheet provisionally numbered B, 1, in the publication above
referred to.

[246] This cylinder, which is now in the British Museum, was perhaps the actual signet of the king.

[247] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 272.

[248] LAYARD, Monuments of Nineveh, first series, plate 77; second series, plates 24 and 36.

[249] Genesis, xiii. 12.

[250] Genesis, xix.

§ 4.--The Column.

As Chaldæa, speaking broadly, made no use of stone in its buildings, the stone column or shaft
was unknown to its architects; at least not a single fragment of such a thing has been found
among the ruins. Here and there cylindrical piers built up of small units seem to have been
employed. These are sometimes of specially moulded bricks,[251] sometimes of sandstone fragments
supported by a coat of masonry. Time has separated the stones of the latter, and it is now
only represented by fragments whose shape betrays their original destination. Taylor, indeed,
found one of these piers still in place during his excavations at Abou-Sharein, but his sketch
and description are so confused that it is quite useless to reproduce them.[252]

On the other hand, Chaldæa preceded Assyria in the art of raising airy structures mainly composed
of wood and metal, and by them she was led to the use of slender supports and a decoration
in which grace and elegance were the most conspicuous features. We have a proof of this in
a curious monument recently acquired by the British Museum. It comes from Abou-Abba, about
sixteen miles south-west of Bagdad, and is in a marvellous state of preservation. Abou-Abba
has been recognized as the site of the ancient Sippara, one of the oldest of Chaldæan towns.
Its sanctuaries, in which the sun-god, Samas, was chiefly adored, always maintained a great
importance.

The monument in question is a tablet of very close-grained grey stone 11-1/3 inches long 6
inches high and, in the centre, about 3 inches thick. Its thickness increases from top to bottom.
The edge is grooved. High up on the obverse there is a bas-relief, beneath this commences a
long inscription which is finished on the reverse.[253] Shorter inscriptions are engraved on
the field of the relief itself. The whole work--figures, inscriptions, and outer mouldings--is
executed with the utmost care. The laborious solicitude with which the smallest details are
carried out is to be explained by the destination of this little plaque, namely, the temple
in the centre of Sippara in which a triad consisting of Sin, Samas, and Istar was the object
of worship.[254]

The relief itself--which we reproduce from a cast kindly presented to us by Dr. Birch--occupies
rather less than half of the obverse (Fig. 71). It represents a king called Nabou-Abla-Idin,
who reigned about 900, doing homage to the sun-god.[255] We shall return to this scene and
its composition when the time arrives for treating Chaldæan sculpture. At present we only wish
to speak of the pavilion under which the deity is enthroned upon a chair supported by two beings
half man and half bull.

This kind of tabernacle is bounded, above and at the back of the god, by a wall of which there
is nothing to show the exact nature. Its graceful, sinuous line, however, seems to exclude
the idea, sufficiently improbable in itself, of a brick vault. It may possibly have been of
wood, though it would not be easy to obtain this elegant curve even in that material.

But such forms as this are given with the greatest ease in metal, and we are ready to believe
that what the artist here meant to represent was a metal frame, which could at need be hidden
under a canopy of leather or wool, like those we have already encountered in the Assyrian bas-reliefs
(Figs. 67 and 68). The artist has in fact made use of a graphic process common enough with
the Egyptians.[256] He has given us a lateral elevation of the tabernacle with the god in profile
within it, because his skill was unequal to the task of showing him full front and seated between
the two columns of the façade.

The single column thus left visible has been represented with great skill and care; the sculptor
seems to have taken pleasure in dwelling upon its smallest details. Slender as it is, it must
have been of wood. The markings upon it suggest the trunk of a palm, but we may be permitted
to doubt whether it was allowed to remain in its natural uncovered state. Even in the climate
of Chaldæa a dead tree trunk exposed to the air would have no great durability. Sooner or later
the sun, the rain, the changes of temperature, would give a good account of it, and besides,
a piece of rough wood could hardly be made to harmonize with the luxury that must assuredly
have been lavished by the people of Sippara upon the sanctuary of their greatest divinity.

It is probable, therefore, that the wood was overlaid with plates of gilded bronze, fastened
on with nails.

This hypothesis is confirmed by one of M. Place's discoveries at Khorsabad.[257] There, in
front of the Harem, he found several large fragments of a round cedar-wood beam almost as thick
as a man's body. It was cased in a bronze sheath, very much oxydized and resembling the scales
of a fish in arrangement (Fig. 72). The metal was attached to the wood by a large number of
bronze nails. Comparing these remains with certain bas-reliefs in which different kinds of
trees appear (Fig. 27) we can easily see that the Ninevite sculptors meant to represent the
peculiar roughnesses of palm bark. Their usual methods are modified a little by the requirements
of the material and the size of the beam upon which it was used. Each scale was about 4-1/2
inches high, and according to the calculations of M. Place, the whole mast must have been from
five-and-thirty to forty feet high. Working for spectators on a lower level and at some distance,
the smith thought well to make his details as regular and strongly marked as he could; to each
scale or leaf he gave a raised edge to mark its contour and distinguish it from the rest. The
general effect was thus obtained by deliberate exaggeration of the relief and by a conventionality
that was justified by the conditions of the problem to be solved.

At a little distance from this broken beam M. Place found a leaf of gold which is now in the
Louvre; it presents the same ovoid forms as the bronze sheathing, and, moreover, the numerous
nail holes show that it was meant to fulfil the same purpose as the bronze plates. The place
in which it was found, its dimensions and form, all combine to prove that it was laid upon
the bronze as we should lay gold leaf. It bears an inscription in cuneiform characters.

We are inclined to take these plates for models in restoring the columns of the Sippara tabernacle.
There is nothing in the richness of this double covering of bronze and gold to cause surprise,
as the inscription which covers part of the face and the whole of the back of the tablet is
nothing but a long enumeration of the gifts made to the shrine of Samas by the reigning king
and his predecessors.

This column has both capital and base. The former cannot have been of stone; a heavy block
of basalt or even of limestone would be quite out of place in such a situation. As for the
base it is hardly more than a repetition of the capital, and must have been of the same material;
and that material was metal, the only substance that, when bent by the hand or beaten by the
hammer, takes almost of its own motion those graceful curves that we call volutes.

We believe then in a bronze capital gilded. Under the volutes three rings, or astragali, may
be seen. By their means the capital was allied to the shaft. The former consisted of two volutes
between which appeared a vertical point resembling one of the angles of a triangle. The base
is the same except that it has no point, and that the rings are in contact with the ground
instead of with the shaft. These volutes may also be perceived on the table in front of the
tabernacle, where they support the large disk by which the sun-god is symbolized.

Before quitting this tablet we may point to another difference between the column of Sippara
and the shafts of the same material and proportions that we have encountered in the Assyrian
bas-reliefs (Figs. 67, 68, and 69). In the latter the column rises above the canopy, which
is attached to its shaft by brackets or nails. At Sippara the canopy rests upon the capital
itself. The same arrangement may be found in Assyrian representations of these light structures;
it will suffice to give one example taken from the gates of Balawat (Fig. 73). Here, too, the
proportions of the columns prove them to have been of wood. They do not rise above the entablature.
The architrave rests upon them, and, as in Greece and Egypt, its immediate weight is borne
by abaci.

At present our aim is to prove that Assyria derived from Chaldæa the first idea of those tall
and slender columns, the shafts of which were of wood sheathed in metal, and the capitals of
the latter material. The graceful and original forms of Chaldæan art would have prepared the
way for a columnar architecture in stone, had that material been forthcoming. Babylon, however,
saw no such architecture. Her plastic genius never came under the influence that would have
led her to import stone from abroad; and the grace and variety of the orders remained unknown
to her builders. Like Egypt, Chaldæa gave lessons but received none. The forms of her art are
to be explained by the inborn characteristics of her people and the natural conditions among
which they found themselves placed.

In Assyria these conditions were rather different. The stone column was used there, but used
in a timid and hesitating fashion. It never reached the freedom and independence that would
have characterized it had it arisen naturally from the demands of construction.[258]

We only possess one column, or rather one fragment of a column, from Assyria, and that was
found by M. Place at Khorsabad (Fig. 74). It is a block of carefully worked and carved limestone
about forty inches high, and including both the capital and the upper part of the shaft in
its single piece.

Such a combination could not long exist in architectonic systems in which the stone column
played its true part. It is a survival from the use of wood. Another characteristic feature
is the complete absence both from this fragment and from the columns in the sculptured reliefs
of vertical lines or divisions of any kind, no trace of a fluted or polygonal shaft has been
found.[259]

In writing the history of the Egyptian column we explained how the natural desire for as much
light as possible led the architects of Beni-Hassan to transform the square pier, first into
an octagonal prism, secondly into one with sixteen sides.[260] And to this progressive elaboration
of the polyhedric shaft the flutes seemed to us to owe their origin. On the other hand, with
tall and slender supports such as those afforded by palm trunks no necessity for reduction
and for the shaving of angles would arise, and those flutes whose peculiar section is owing
to the desire for a happy play of light and shadow, would never have been thought of. If we
imitate a natural timber shaft in stone we have a smooth cylindrical column like that seen
in Fig. 74.

Again, the shafts of the columns in the bas-reliefs, appear slender in comparison with those
of Egypt, or with the doric shafts of the oldest Greek temples (see Fig. 41 and 42). In the
fragmentary column from Khorsabad (Fig. 74) we have only a small part of the shaft but if we
may judge from the feeble salience of the capital, its proportions must have been slender rather
than heavy and massive.

Wherever the stone column has been used in buildings of mediocre size, the architect seems
to have been driven by some optical necessity to make his angle columns more thickset than
the other supports. Thus it was in Assyria, in the little temple at Kouyundjik (Fig. 42), where
the outer columns are sensibly thicker than those between them; at Khorsabad (Fig. 41) the
same result was obtained by rather different means. The edifice represented in this bas-relief
bears no little similarity to certain Egyptian temples and to the Greek temple in antis.[261]
The strength of these angular piers contrasts happily with the elegance of the columns between
them. The latter are widely spaced, and, as in some Egyptian buildings, the architrave is but
a horizontal continuation of the corner piers.

If we analyse the column and examine its three parts separately we shall be led to similar
conclusions. The stone column no doubt bore the architrave upon its capital wherever it was
used, and both in Chaldæa and Assyria we find the same arrangement in those light structures
which we have classed as belonging to the architecture of the tent (Figs. 70 and 72). The origin
of the forms employed in stone buildings is most clearly shewn by the frequent occurrence of
the volute, a curvilinear element suggested by the use and peculiar properties of metal.

We find these volutes everywhere, upon shafts of stone and wood indifferently. We are tempted
to think, when we examine the details of our Fig. 67, that the first idea of them was taken
from the horns of the ibex or the wild goat. The column on the right of this cut bears a fir
cone between its volutes, those on the left have small tablets on which are perched the very
animals whose heads are armed with these horns.

However this may be, the form in question, like all others borrowed from nature by man, was
soon modified and developed by art. The curve was prolonged and turned in upon itself. In one
of the capitals of the little temple represented at Kouyundjik (Fig. 42), two pairs of these
horns may be recognized one above the other (Fig. 75), but nowhere else do we find such an
arrangement. Whether the column be of wood, as in the Sippara tablet (Fig. 71), or of stone,
as in those buildings in which the weight and solidity of the entablature points decisively
to that material (Figs. 41 and 42), we find a volute in universal use that differs but slightly
in its general physiognomy from the familiar ornament of the Ionic capital.

Let us revert for a moment to the country house or palace of which we gave a general view in
Fig. 39. We shall there find on the highest part of the building an open loggia supported by
small columns many times repeated. We reproduce this part of the relief on a larger scale (Fig.
76), so that its details may be more clearly seen. A very slight familiarity with the graphic
processes of the Assyrians is sufficient to inform the reader that the kind of trellis work
with which the bed of the relief is covered is significant of a mountainous country. The palace
rises on the banks of a river, which is indicated by the sinuous lines in the right lower corner.
The buildings themselves--which are dominated here and there by the round tops of trees, planted,
we may suppose, in the inner courts--stand upon mounds at various heights above the plain.
The lowest of these look like isolated structures, such as the advanced works of a fortress.
Next comes a line of towers, and then the artificial hill crowned by the palace properly speaking.
The façade of the latter is flanked by tall and salient towers, across whose summits runs the
open gallery to which we have referred.[262] This is supported by numerous columns which must
by their general arrangement and spacing, have been of wood. The gallery consisted, in all
probability, of a platform upheld by trunks of trees, either squared or left in the rough and
surmounted by capitals sheathed in beaten bronze.

The volute is here quite simple in shape; elsewhere we find it doubled, as it were, so that
four volutes occur between the astragali and the abacus (Figs. 42 and 77).[263] In other examples,
again, it is elongated upwards until it takes a shape differing but little from the acanthus
leaves of the Corinthian capital (Fig. 78).[264]

This volute is found all over Assyria and Chaldæa. It decorates the angles of the small temple
represented on the stone known as Lord Aberdeen's Black Stone (Fig. 79). It occurs also on
many of the ivories, but these, perhaps, are for the most part Phoenician. But in any case
the Assyrians made constant use of it in the decoration of their furniture. In an ivory plaque,
of which the British Museum possesses several examples, we find a man standing and grasping
a lotus stem in his left hand (Fig. 80). This stem rests upon a support which bears a strong
resemblance to the Sippara capital (Fig. 71); it has two volutes separated by a sharp point.
The fondness of the Assyrians for these particular curves is also betrayed in that religious
and symbolic device which has been sometimes called the Tree of Life. Some day, perhaps, the
exact significance of this emblem may be explained, we are content to point out the variety
and happy arrangement of the sinuous lines which surround and enframe the richly decorated
pilaster that acts as its stem. We gave one specimen of this tree in Fig. 8; we now give another
(Fig. 81). The astragali, the ibex horns and the volutes, may all be easily recognized here.

The only stone capital that has come down to us has, indeed, no volutes (Fig. 74) but it is
characterized by the same taste for flowing lines and rounded forms. Its general section is
that of a cyma reversa surmounted by a flattened torus, and its appearance that of a vase decorated
with curvilinear and geometrical tracery. There is both originality and beauty in the contours
of the profile and the arrangement of the tracery; the section as a whole is not unlike that
of the inverted bell-shaped capitals at Karnak.[265]

This type must have been in frequent use, as we find it repeated in four bases found still
in place in front of the palace of Sennacherib by Sir Henry Layard. They were of limestone
and rested upon plinths and a pavement of the same material (Fig. 82).[266] In these the design
of the ornament is a little more complicated than the festoon on the Khorsabad capital, but
the principle is the same and both objects belong to one narrow class.

