Down at Matching Lady Mary's life was very dull after Mrs. Finn had left her. She had a horse
to ride, but had no one to ride with her. She had a carriage in which to be driven, but no
one to be driven with her, and no special places whither to go. Her father would walk daily
for two hours, and she would accompany him when he encouraged her to do so; but she had an
idea that he preferred taking his walks alone, and when they were together there was no feeling
of confidence between them. There could be none on her part, as she knew that she was keeping
back information which he was entitled to possess. On this matter she received two letters
from Mrs. Finn, in the first of which she was told that Mr. Tregear intended to present himself
at Matching within a few days, and was advised in the same letter not to endeavour to see her
lover on that occasion; and then, in the second she was informed that this interview with her
father was to be sought not at Matching but in London. From this latter letter there was of
course some disappointment, though some feeling of relief. Had he come there she might possibly
have seen him after the interview. But she would have been subjected to the immediate sternness
of her father's anger. That she would now escape. She would not be called on to meet him just
when the first blow had fallen upon him. She was quite sure that he would disapprove of the
thing. She was quite sure that he would be very angry. She knew that he was a peculiarly just
man, and yet she thought that in this he would be unjust. Had she been called upon to sing
the praises of her father she would have insisted above all things on the absolute integrity
of his mind, and yet, knowing as she did that he would be opposed to her marriage with Mr.
Tregear, she assured herself every day and every hour that he had no right to make any such
objection. The man she loved was a gentleman, and an honest man, by no means a fool, and subject
to no vices. Her father had no right to demand that she should give her heart to a rich man,
or to one of high rank. Rank! As for rank, she told herself that she had the most supreme contempt
for it. She thought that she had seen it near enough already to be sure that it ought to have
no special allurements. What was it doing for her? Simply restraining her choice among comparatively
a few who seemed to her by no means the best endowed of God's creatures.

Of one thing she was very sure, that under no pressure whatsoever would she abandon her engagement
with Mr. Tregear. That to her had become a bond almost as holy as matrimony itself could be.
She had told the man that she loved him, and after that there could be no retreat. He had kissed
her, and she had returned his caress. He had told her that she was his, as his arm was round
her; and she had acknowledged that it was so, that she belonged to him, and could not be taken
away from him. All this was to her a compact so sacred that nothing could break it but a desire
on his part to have it annulled. No other man had ever whispered a word of love to her, of
no other man had an idea entered her mind that it could be pleasant to join her lot in life
with his. With her it had been all new and all sacred. Love with her had that religion which
nothing but freshness can give it. That freshness, that bloom, may last through a long life.
But every change impairs it, and after many changes it has perished for ever. There was no
question with her but that she must bear her father's anger, should he be angry; put up with
his continued opposition, should he resolutely oppose her; bear all that the countesses of
the world might say to her;--for it was thus that she thought of Lady Cantrip now. Any retrogression
was beyond her power.

She was walking with her father when she first heard of his intended visit to London. At that
time she had received Mrs. Finn's first letter, but not the second. "I suppose you'll see Silverbridge,"
she said. She knew then that Frank Tregear was living with her brother.

"I am going up on purpose to see him. He is causing me much annoyance."

"Is he extravagant?"

"It is not that--at present." He winced even as he said this, for he had in truth suffered
somewhat from demands made upon him for money, which had hurt him not so much by their amount
as by their nature. Lord Silverbridge had taken upon himself to "own a horse or two," very
much to his father's chagrin, and was at this moment part proprietor of an animal supposed
to stand well for the Derby. The fact was not announced in the papers with his lordship's name,
but his father was aware of it, and did not like it the better because his son held the horse
in partnership with a certain Major Tifto, who was well known in the sporting world.

"What is it, papa?"

"Of course he ought to go into Parliament."

"I think he wishes it himself."

"Yes, but how? By a piece of extreme good fortune, West Barsetshire is open to him. The two
seats are vacant together. There is hardly another agricultural county in England that will
return a Liberal, and I fear I am not asserting too much in saying that no other Liberal could
carry the seat but one of our family."

"You used to sit for Silverbridge, papa."

"Yes, I did. In those days the county returned four Conservatives. I cannot explain it all
to you, but it is his duty to contest the county on the Liberal side."

"But if he is a Conservative himself, papa?" asked Lady Mary, who had had some political ideas
suggested to her own mind by her lover.

"It is all rubbish. It has come from that young man Tregear, with whom he has been associating."

"But, papa," said Lady Mary, who felt that even in this matter she was bound to be firm on
what was now her side of the question, "I suppose it is as--as--as respectable to be a Conservative
as a Liberal."

"I don't know that at all," said the Duke angrily.

"I thought that--the two sides were--"

She was going to express an opinion that the two parties might be supposed to stand as equal
in the respect of the country, when he interrupted her. "The Pallisers have always been Liberal.
It will be a blow to me, indeed, if Silverbridge deserts his colours. I know that as yet he
himself has had no deep thoughts on the subject, that unfortunately he does not give himself
much to thinking, and that in this matter he is being talked over by a young man whose position
in life has hardly justified the great intimacy which has existed."

This was very far from being comfortable to her, but of course she said nothing in defence
of Tregear's politics. Nor at present was she disposed to say anything as to his position in
life, though at some future time she might not be so silent. A few days later they were again
walking together, when he spoke to her about herself. "I cannot bear that you should be left
here alone while I am away," he said.

"You will not be long gone, I suppose?"

"Only for three or four days now."

"I shall not mind that, papa."

"But very probably I may have to go into Barsetshire. Would you not be happier if you would
let me write to Lady Cantrip, and tell her that you will go to her?"

"No, papa, I think not. There are times when one feels that one ought to be almost alone. Don't
you feel that?"

"I do not wish you to feel it, nor would you do so long if you had other people around you.
With me it is different. I am an old man, and cannot look for new pleasures in society. It
has been the fault of my life to be too much alone. I do not want to see my children follow
me in that."

"It is so very short a time as yet," said she, thinking of her mother's death.

"But I think that you should be with somebody,--with some woman who would be kind to you. I
like to see you with books, but books alone should not be sufficient at your age." How little,
she thought, did he know of the state either of her heart or mind! "Do you dislike Lady Cantrip?"

"I do not know her. I can't say that I dislike a person whom I don't think I ever spoke to,
and never saw above once or twice. But how can I say that I like her?" She did, however, know
that Lady Cantrip was a countess all over, and would be shocked at the idea of a daughter of
a Duke of Omnium marrying the younger son of a country squire. Nothing further was then said
on the matter, and when the Duke went to town Lady Mary was left quite alone, with an understanding
that if he went into Barsetshire he should come back and take her with him.

He arrived at his own house in Carlton Terrace about five o'clock in the afternoon, and immediately
went to his study, intending to dine and spend the evening there alone. His son had already
pleaded an engagement for that afternoon, but had consented to devote the following morning
to his father's wishes. Of the other sojourner in his house the Duke had thought nothing; but
the other sojourner had thought very much of the Duke. Frank Tregear was fully possessed of
that courage which induces a man who knows that he must be thrown over a precipice, to choose
the first possible moment for his fall. He had sounded Silverbridge about this change in his
politics, and had found his friend quite determined not to go back to the family doctrine.
Such being the case, the Duke's ill-will and hardness and general severity would probably be
enhanced by his interview with his son. Tregear, therefore, thinking that nothing could be
got by delay, sent his name in to the Duke before he had been an hour in the house, and asked
for an interview. The servant brought back word that his Grace was fatigued, but would see
Mr. Tregear if the matter in question was one of importance. Frank's heart quailed for a moment,
but only for a moment. He took up a pen and wrote a note.

   MY DEAR DUKE OF OMNIUM,

   If your Grace can spare a moment, I think you will find
   that what I have to say will justify the intrusion.

   Your very faithful servant,

   F. O. TREGEAR.

Of course the Duke admitted him. There was but one idea in his head as to what was coming.
His son had taken this way of making some communication to him respecting his political creed.
Some overture or some demand was to be preferred through Tregear. If so, it was proof of a
certain anxiety as to the matter on his son's part which was not displeasing to him. But he
was not left long in this mistake after Tregear had entered the room. "Sir," he said, speaking
quite at once, as soon as the door was closed behind him, but still speaking very slowly, looking
beautiful as Apollo as he stood upright before his wished-for father-in-law--"Sir, I have come
to you to ask you to give me the hand of your daughter." The few words had been all arranged
beforehand, and were now spoken without any appearance of fear or shame. No one hearing them
would have imagined that an almost penniless young gentleman was asking in marriage the daughter
of the richest and greatest nobleman in England.

"The hand of my daughter!" said the Duke, rising from his chair.

"I know how very great is the prize," said Frank, "and how unworthy I am of it. But--as she
thinks me worthy--"

"She! What she?"

"Lady Mary."

"She think you worthy!"

"Yes, your Grace."

"I do not believe it." On hearing this, Frank simply bowed his head. "I beg your pardon, Mr.
Tregear. I do not mean to say that I do not believe you. I never yet gave the lie to a gentleman,
and I hope I never may be driven to do so. But there must be some mistake in this."

"I am complying with Lady Mary's wishes in asking your permission to enter your house as her
suitor." The Duke stood for a moment biting his lips in silence. "I cannot believe it," he
said at last. "I cannot bring myself to believe it. There must be some mistake. My daughter!
Lady Mary Palliser!" Again the young man bowed his head. "What are your pretensions?"

"Simply her regard."

"Of course it is impossible. You are not so ignorant but that you must have known as much when
you came to me."

There was so much scorn in his words, and in the tone in which they were uttered, that Tregear
in his turn was becoming angry. He had prepared himself to bow humbly before the great man,
before the Duke, before the Croesus, before the late Prime Minister, before the man who was
to be regarded as certainly one of the most exalted of the earth; but he had not prepared himself
to be looked at as the Duke looked at him. "The truth, my Lord Duke, is this," he said, "that
your daughter loves me, and that we are engaged to each other,--as far as that engagement can
be made without your sanction as her father."

"It cannot have been made at all," said the Duke.

"I can only hope,--we can both of us only hope that a little time may soften--"

"It is out of the question. There must be an end of this altogether. You must neither see her,
nor hear from her, nor in any way communicate with her. It is altogether impossible. I believe,
sir, that you have no means?"

"Very little at present, Duke."

"How did you think you were to live? But it is altogether unnecessary to speak of such a matter
as that. There are so many reasons to make this impossible, that it would be useless to discuss
one as being more important than others. Has any other one of my family known of this?" This
he added, wishing to ascertain whether Lord Silverbridge had disgraced himself by lending his
hand to such a disposition of his sister.

"Oh yes," said Tregear.

"Who has known it?"

"The Duchess, sir. We had all her sympathy and approval."

"I do not believe a word of it," said the Duke, becoming extremely red in the face. He was
forced to do now that which he had just declared that he had never done in his life,--driven
by the desire of his heart to acquit the wife he had lost of the terrible imprudence, worse
than imprudence, of which she was now accused.

"That is the second time, my Lord, that you have found it necessary to tell me that you have
not believed direct assertions which I made you. But, luckily for me, the two assertions are
capable of the earliest and most direct proof. You will believe Lady Mary, and she will confirm
me in the one and the other."

The Duke was almost beside himself with emotion and grief. He did know,--though now at this
moment he was most loath to own to himself that it was so,--that his dear wife had been the
most imprudent of women. And he recognised in her encouragement of this most pernicious courtship,--if
she had encouraged it,--a repetition of that romantic folly by which she had so nearly brought
herself to shipwreck in her own early life. If it had been so,--even whether it had been so
or not,--he had been wrong to tell the man that he did not believe him. And the man had rebuked
him with dignity. "At any rate it is impossible," he repeated.

"I cannot allow that it is impossible."

"That is for me to judge, sir."

"I trust that you will excuse me when I say that I also must hold myself to be in some degree
a judge in the matter. If you were in my place, you would feel--"

"I could not possibly be in your place."

"If your Grace were in my place you would feel that as long as you were assured by the young
lady that your affection was valued by her you would not be deterred by the opposition of her
father. That you should yield to me, of course I do not expect; that Lady Mary should be persistent
in her present feelings, when she knows your mind, perhaps I have no right to hope; but should
she be so persistent as to make you feel that her happiness depends, as mine does, on our marriage,
then I shall believe that you will yield at last."

"Never!" said the Duke. "Never! I shall never believe that my daughter's happiness can be assured
by a step which I should regard as disgraceful to her."

"Disgraceful is a violent word, my Lord."

"It is the only word that will express my meaning."

"And one which I must be bold enough to say you are not justified in using. Should she become
my wife to-morrow, no one in England would think she had disgraced herself. The Queen would
receive her on her marriage. All your friends would hold out their hands to us,--presuming
that we had your goodwill."

"But you would not have it."

"Her disgrace would not depend upon that, my Lord. Should your daughter so dispose of herself,
as to disgrace herself,--which I think to be impossible,--your countenance could not set her
right. Nor can the withdrawal of your countenance condemn her before the world if she does
that with herself which any other lady might do and remain a lady."

The Duke, when he heard this, even in the midst of his wrath, which was very violent, and in
the midst of his anger, which was very acute, felt that he had to deal with a man,--with one
whom he could not put off from him into the gutter, and there leave as buried in the mud. And
there came, too, a feeling upon him, which he had no time to analyse, but of which he was part
aware, that this terrible indiscretion on the part of his daughter and of his late wife was
less wonderful than it had at first appeared to be. But not on that account was he the less
determined to make the young man feel that his parental opposition would be invincible.

"It is quite impossible, sir. I do not think that I need say anything more." Then, while Tregear
was meditating whether to make any reply, the Duke asked a question which had better have been
left unasked. The asking of it diminished somewhat from that ducal, grand-ducal, quasi-archducal,
almost godlike superiority which he had assumed, and showed the curiosity of a mere man. "Has
anybody else been aware of this?" he said, still wishing to know whether he had cause for anger
against Silverbridge in the matter.

"Mrs. Finn is aware of it," answered Tregear.

"Mrs. Finn!" exclaimed the Duke, as though he had been stung by an adder.

This was the woman whom he had prayed to remain awhile with his daughter after his wife had
been laid in her grave, in order that there might be someone near whom he could trust! And
this very woman whom he had so trusted,--whom, in his early associations with her, he had disliked
and distrusted, but had taught himself both to like and to trust because his wife had loved
her,--this woman was the she-Pandarus who had managed matters between Tregear and his daughter!
His wife had been too much subject to her influence. That he had always known. And now, in
this last act of her life, she had allowed herself to be persuaded to give up her daughter
by the baneful wiles of this most pernicious woman. Such were the workings of the Duke's mind
when the young man told him that Mrs. Finn was acquainted with the whole affair. As the reader
is aware, nothing could have been more unjust.

"I mentioned her name," said Tregear, "because I thought she had been a friend of the family."

"That will do, sir. I have been greatly pained as well as surprised by what I have heard. Of
the real state of the case I can form no opinion till I see my daughter. You, of course, will
hold no further intercourse with her." He paused as though for a promise, but Tregear did not
feel himself called upon to say a word in one direction or in the other. "It will be my care
that you shall not do so. Good-morning, sir."

Tregear, who during the interview had been standing, then bowed, turned upon his heel, and
left the room.

The Duke seated himself, and, crossing his arms upon his chest, sat for an hour looking up
at the ceiling. Why was it that, for him, such a world of misery had been prepared? What wrong
had he done, of what imprudence had he been guilty, that, at every turn of life, something
should occur so grievous as to make him think himself the most wretched of men? No man had
ever loved his wife more dearly than he had done; and yet now, in that very excess of tenderness
which her death had occasioned, he was driven to accuse her of a great sin against himself,
in that she had kept from him her knowledge of this affair;--for, when he came to turn the
matter over in his mind, he did believe Tregear's statement as to her encouragement. Then,
too, he had been proud of his daughter. He was a man so reticent and undemonstrative in his
manner that he had never known how to make confidential friends of his children. In his sons
hitherto he had not taken pride. They were gallant, well-grown, handsome boys, with a certain
dash of cleverness,--more like their mother than their father; but they had not as yet done
anything as he would have had them do it. But the girl, in the perfection of her beauty, in
the quiescence of her manner, in the nature of her studies, and in the general dignity of her
bearing, had seemed to be all that he had desired. And now she had engaged herself, behind
his back, to the younger son of a little county squire!

But his anger against Mrs. Finn was hotter than his anger against any one in his own family.

CHAPTER VI

Major Tifto

Major Tifto had lately become a member of the Beargarden Club, under the auspices of his friend
Lord Silverbridge. It was believed, by those who had made some inquiry into the matter, that
the Major had really served a campaign as a volunteer in the Carlist army in the north of Spain.
When, therefore, it was declared by someone that he was not a major at all, his friends were
able to contradict the assertion, and to impute it to slander. Instances were brought up,--declared
by these friends to be innumerable, but which did, in truth, amount to three or four,--of English
gentlemen who had come home from a former Carlist war, bearing the title of colonel, without
any contradiction or invidious remark. Had this gallant officer appeared as Colonel Tifto,
perhaps less might have been said about it. There was a little lack of courage in the title
which he did choose. But it was accepted at last, and, as Major Tifto, he was proposed, seconded,
and elected at the Beargarden.

But he had other points in his favour besides the friendship of Lord Silverbridge,--points
which had probably led to that friendship. He was, without doubt, one of the best horsemen
in England. There were some who said that, across country, he was the very best, and that,
as a judge of a hunter, few excelled him. Of late years he had crept into credit as a betting-man.
No one supposed that he had much capital to work with; but still, when he lost a bet he paid it.

Soon after his return from Spain, he was chosen as Master of the Runnymede Fox-Hounds, and
was thus enabled to write the letters M.F.H. after his name. The gentlemen who rode with the
Runnymede were not very liberal in their terms, and had lately been compelled to change their
Master rather more frequently than was good for that quasi-suburban hunt; but now they had
fitted themselves well. How he was to hunt the country five days a fortnight, finding servants
and horses, and feeding the hounds, for eight hundred pounds a year, no one could understand.
But Major Tifto not only undertook to do it, but did it. And he actually succeeded in obtaining
for the Runnymede a degree of popularity which for many years previous it had not possessed.
Such a man,--even though no one did know anything of his father or mother, though no one had
ever heard him speak of a brother or a sister, though it was believed that he had no real income,--was
felt by many to be the very man for the Beargarden; and when his name was brought up at the
committee, Lord Silverbridge was able to say so much in his favour that only two blackballs
were given against him. Under the mild rule of the club, three would have been necessary to
exclude him; and therefore Major Tifto was now as good a member as any one else.

He was a well-made little man, good-looking for those who like such good looks. He was light-haired
and blue-eyed, with regular and yet not inexpressive features. But his eyes were small and
never tranquil, and rarely capable of looking at the person who was speaking to him. He had
small well-trimmed, glossy whiskers, with the best-kept moustache, and the best-kept tuft on
his chin which were to be seen anywhere. His face still bore the freshness of youth, which
was a marvel to many, who declared that, from facts within their knowledge, Tifto must be far
on the wrong side of forty. At a first glance you would hardly have called him thirty. No doubt,
when, on close inspection, you came to look into his eyes, you could see the hand of time.
Even if you believed the common assertion that he painted,--which it was very hard to believe
of a man who passed the most of his time in the hunting-field or on a race-course,--yet the
paint on his cheeks would not enable him to move with the elasticity which seemed to belong
to all his limbs. He rode flat races and steeple chases,--if jump races may still be so called;
and with his own hounds and with the Queen's did incredible things on horseback. He could jump
over chairs too,--the backs of four chairs in a dining-room after dinner,--a feat which no
gentleman of forty-five could perform, even though he painted himself ever so.

So much in praise of Major Tifto honesty has compelled the present chronicler to say. But there
were traits of character in which he fell off a little, even in the estimation of those whose
pursuits endeared him to them. He could not refrain from boasting,--and especially from boasting
about women. His desire for glory in that direction knew no bounds, and he would sometimes
mention names, and bring himself into trouble. It was told of him that at one period of his
life, when misfortune had almost overcome him, when sorrow had produced prostration, and prostration
some expression of truth, he had owned to a friend his own conviction that could he have kept
his tongue from talking of women, he might have risen to prosperity in his profession. From
these misfortunes he had emerged, and, no doubt, had often reflected on what he himself had
then said. But we know that the drunkard, though he hates drunkenness, cannot but drink,--that
the gambler cannot keep from the dice. Major Tifto still lied about women, and could not keep
his tongue from the subject. He would boast, too, about other matters,--much to his own disadvantage.
He was, too, very "deep", and some men, who could put up with his other failings, could not
endure that. Whatever he wanted to do he would attempt round three corners. Though he could
ride straight, he could do nothing else straight. He was full of mysteries. If he wanted to
draw Charter Wood he would take his hounds out of the street at Egham directly in the other
direction. If he had made up his mind to ride Lord Pottlepot's horse for the great Leamington
handicap, he would be sure to tell even his intimate friends that he was almost determined
to take the "baronet's" offer of a mount. This he would do even where there was no possible
turn in the betting to be affected by such falsehood. So that his companions were apt to complain
that there was no knowing where to have Tifto. And then, they who were old enough in the world
to have had some experience in men, had perceived that peculiar quality of his eyes, which
never allowed him to look any one in the face.

That Major Tifto should make money by selling horses was, perhaps, a necessity of his position.
No one grumbled at him because he did so, or thought that such a pursuit was incompatible with
his character as a sporting gentleman. But there were some who considered that they had suffered
unduly under his hands, and in their bargains with him had been made to pay more than a proper
amount of tax for the advantages of his general assistance. When a man has perhaps made fifty
pounds by using a "straight tip" as to a horse at Newmarket, in doing which he had of course
encountered some risks, he feels he ought not to be made to pay the amount back into the pockets
of the "tipper," and at the same time to find himself saddled with the possession of a perfectly
useless animal. In this way there were rocks in the course through which Tifto was called on
to steer his bark. Of course he was anxious, when preying upon his acquaintances, to spare
those who were useful friends to him. Now and again he would sell a serviceable animal at a
fair price, and would endeavour to make such sale in favour of someone whose countenance would
be a rock to him. He knew his business well, but yet there would be mistakes.

Now, at this very moment, was the culmination of the Major's life. He was Master of the Runnymede
Hounds, he was partner with the eldest son of a Duke in the possession of that magnificent
colt, the Prime Minister, and he was a member of the Beargarden. He was a man who had often
been despondent about himself, but was now disposed to be a little triumphant. He had finished
his season well with the Runnymede, and were it not that, let him work as he would, his expenses
always exceeded his means, he would have been fairly comfortable.

At eight o'clock Lord Silverbridge and his friend met in the dining-room of the Beargarden.
"Have you been here before?" asked the Lord.

"Not in here, my Lord. I just looked in at the smoking-room last night. Glasslough and Nidderdale
were there. I thought we should have got up a rubber, but they didn't seem to see it."

"There is whist here generally. You'll find out all about it before long. Perhaps they are
a little afraid of you."

"I'm the worst hand at cards, I suppose, in England. A dash at loo for about an hour, and half-a-dozen
cuts at blind hookey,--that's about my form. I know I drop more than I pick up. If I knew what
I was about I should never touch a card."

"Horses; eh, Tifto?"

"Horses, yes. They've pretty good claret, here, eh, Silverbridge?" He could never hit off his
familiarity quite right. He had my-Lorded his young friend at first, and now brought out the
name with a hesitating twang, which the young nobleman appreciated. But then the young nobleman
was quite aware that the Major was a friend for club purposes, and sporting purposes, and not
for home use.

"Everything of that kind is pretty good here," said the Lord.

"You were saying--horses."

"I dare say you do better with them than with cards."

"If I didn't I don't know where I should be, seeing what a lot pass through my hands in the
year. Any one of our fellows who has a horse to sell thinks that I am bound to buy him. And
I do buy 'em. Last May I had forty-two hunters on my hands."

"How many of them have you got now?"

"Three. Three of that lot,--though a goodish many have come up since. But what does it amount
to? When I have anything that is very good, some fellow that I like gets him from me."

"After paying for him."

"After paying for him! Yes; I don't mean that I make a fellow a present. But the man who buys
has a deal the best of it. Did you ever get anything better than that spotted chestnut in your
life?"

"What, old Sarcinet?"

"You had her for one hundred and sixty pounds. Now, if you were on your oath, what is she worth?"

"She suits me, Major, and of course I shouldn't sell her."

