There was, however, not much of interest to observe in the somewhat barren-looking country
through which the railroad ran; and voting France (Paris excepted) a very slow place indeed,
Will buried himself for the rest of the afternoon in a boy's book of travels. Nevertheless,
the journey proved a very tedious one, and after stopping for dinner at six, the two brothers
endeavored to bridge over the remaining hours with sleep.

"Verviers!" shouted out by the guard, was the sound that caused them both to awake with a start.
The train had stopped, and all the passengers were preparing to "descend," as the French have it.

"Now, Will," said Charlie, sleepily, trying to read his guide-book by the light of the flickering
lamp in the roof of the compartment, "this is the Belgian custom-house; but all trunks registered
through to Cologne, as ours is, they allow to pass unopened; but it seems that everybody is
required to get out and offer their satchels to the officers for examination; but, as we've
only one between us, there's no use in our both rousing up, so you just take this, and follow
the crowd."

"All right," responded Will, now thoroughly wide-awake; "then I can say I've been in Belgium;"
and snatching the small hand-bag from the rack, he hurried off, leaving his brother to continue
his nap.

"Wonder which room it is?" surmised Will, for the platform was deserted, and there were four
waiting-apartments opening out on it. It did not take him long, however, to discover the proper
one for him to enter, and he was soon among the jostling crowd that surrounded the low counter,
behind which were the customs officials, who sometimes opened a bag and glanced over the contents,
and then hastily marked on it with a piece of chalk, but oftener simply chalked it without
examining anything whatever, which latter harmless operation was all to which Will's effects
were subjected.

Rejoiced at getting through so easily, he turned to hasten out to the cars again, but the door
by which he had entered was now closed, and guarded by a gendarme. From the gestures the latter
made when he attempted to pass him, Will understood that he was to go out by another exit into
an adjoining waiting-room, where he found most of the other passengers assembled in the true
flock-of-sheep style; but while he was wondering where he might be driven to next, he saw through
the window the train, containing his brother, his ticket, and his power of speech, whirl suddenly
away into the darkness, and disappear.

"Hallo here! let me out!" cried Will, rushing up to the officer stationed at the door. "I'm
going to Cologne on those cars, don't you understand?"

But the man evidently did not understand, for he shook his head in a most stupid fashion, at
the same time feeling for his sword, as though afraid "le jeune Américain" were going to brush
past him with the energy characteristic of the nation.

Seeing that it was now too late for him to catch the already vanished train, even if he should
succeed in gaining the tracks, Will gave up the attempt, and resigned himself to his fate.

"But why are not the other passengers in as great a state of anxiety as I am?" he thought,
as he looked around at his sleepy fellow-travellers, who had disposed themselves about the
room in various attitudes of weariness and patience. "Perhaps, though, they're not going to
Cologne; very likely they're all bound for some place in Belgium here, on another road. And
now what's to become of me, a green American, with no French at my tongue's end but 'oui' and
'parlez-vous,' not a sign of a ticket, and with but six francs in my purse? Oh, Charlie, why
did you send me out with this bag?" and Will paced nervously up and down the waiting-room,
trying to think of a way out of his predicament. Suddenly a happy idea struck him.

"I'll go out by the door that opens into the town, and walk along till I come to the end of
the station building, and then perhaps I can make my way around to the inside, and so see if
the train really has gone off for good. Very likely it was only switched off, and will soon
back down again."

Putting this plan into execution, Will was soon out in the streets of the queer Belgian city,
wandering along in the darkness, striving to find the end of the dépôt, and then of a high
board fence, which latter seemed to be interminable. At length, however, he reached an open
space, and was about to leap across a telegraphic arrangement that ran beside the tracks, when
one of the inevitable gens-d'armes sprang up from somewhere behind, and gave Will to understand
that he was not allowed to put himself in the way of being killed by an engine.

Poor boy, he was now completely bewildered, and wished with all his might that he had studied
French instead of Latin. As it was, he screamed out, "Cologne! Cologne!" with an energy born
of desperation, and the officer, faintly comprehending his meaning, at last muttered a quick
reply in his unknown tongue, and hurried Will off back to the dépôt with an alacrity that caused
our young American to have some fears he might be taking him to quite another sort of station-house.
But, notwithstanding their haste, when they entered the waiting-room it was empty, and the
flashing of a red lamp on the rear car of a departing train told whither its former occupants
had gone.

And now Will understood it all. The passengers had been locked up while some switching was
done, simply to prevent them from becoming confused.

"What a blockhead I was!" he thought, quite angry with himself. "If I'd just staid quietly
where I was put, and not gone racing off, with the idea that I knew more about their railroads
than the Belgians themselves, I'd never have gotten myself into such a scrape. And now what
am I to do? I suppose Charlie's still fast asleep in the cars, being carried further and further
away from me; and here am I, left at nine o'clock at night in an entirely foreign country,
without a ticket, and, for the matter of that, without a tongue in my head. Why didn't some
of the other passengers explain matters to me, and-- But, pshaw! what good would it have done
if they had? I couldn't have understood a word."

All this time the gendarme had been talking with the ticket agent, and pointing to Will as
though the latter had been a stray dog not capable of saying anything in his own behalf. What
should he do? where should he go? and how could he manage to pass away the time that might
elapse till his brother should miss him and return in search of him? And now the officer came
up, and began to question him, speaking very slowly, and in an extremely loud tone. Notwithstanding,
poor Will could only understand a word here and there, and at length, in despair, he determined
to try a new plan.

Taking out his purse, he showed the money therein to the gendarme, at the same time exclaiming,
"Hotel! hotel!" and pointing to himself. The officer evidently comprehended this pantomime,
for, with a nod to the ticket agent, who had all the while been grinning through his little
wicket, he motioned for Will to follow him out into the street.

The Hôtel du Chemin de Fer (Railroad Hotel) was close at hand, and having in a few rapid sentences
explained the situation to the landlord, the gendarme left Will to his own resources.

The latter thought for a moment that he had stepped into pandemonium itself, for opening on
the right into the main hall of the hotel was a large apartment decorated with a sort of stage
scenery to represent trees and lakes, the room itself being filled with little tables, around
which were seated men smoking and drinking beer, while a thin-toned brass band discoursed popular
music from a gallery overhead.

Will stared at this strange sight with all his eyes, and then suddenly became conscious at
one and the same moment that he was hungry and being talked at by the proprietor. Encouraged
by his former success with one-word speeches, Will simply said "Coffee," and then sat down
at one of the little tables, where he was speedily served with a generous cup of the invigorating
beverage, together with a plentiful supply of bread and butter.

"What a queer adventure!" thought the youth, his spirits much improved by the warm draughts
of coffee, to say nothing of the lights and music. "But now how shall I ever be able to make
the man understand that I want to stay here all night? Charlie's sure to come back for me in
the morning. Oh, I have it! I'll register my name on a piece of paper, hand it to the landlord,
and exhibit my purse again;" which plan succeeded admirably, and "William C. Brooks, New York,
America," was immediately shown to a good-sized room on the second floor, where he lost no
time in retiring to rest after his eventful evening.

His sleep, however, was not undisturbed, for all night long he imagined himself to be an American
locomotive towing an English steamer across the Atlantic, and crashing into several icebergs
on the way.

The next morning Will opened his eyes in a flood of sunshine, and at first could not recollect
where he was, but the whistling of an engine near by soon recalled to him his situation, causing
him at the same time to hurry with his dressing, that he might hasten over to the station for
news of his brother. He did not have to go as far as that, however, for as he was going down
stairs he ran against Charlie coming up, and Will had never been so glad to see anybody or
anything since the time when he used to open his eyes on Christmas mornings to behold the well-filled
stocking hanging from the mantel-piece.

Over the breakfast, which the brothers ate together in the theatrical dining-room, the elder
explained how he had not missed Will till the train had left Verviers a good distance behind.
"And then when I awoke from my nap," continued Charlie, "you can imagine the fright I was in
when I found the cars going, and you gone. We had just passed Aix-la-Chapelle when I made the
dreadful discovery, or I might have driven back here from there with a carriage, for it is
only twenty miles off; but as it was, I could do nothing but fret till we arrived at Cologne,
from which city I at once telegraphed to the station-master here, and ascertained that you
were safe and sound, and fast asleep in bed."

"But why didn't they wake me up, and let me know that you knew that--" broke in Will, but choked
the remainder of his speech with a swallow of coffee and a slice of bread, from a sudden remembrance
of the crashing of icebergs, which might have been knocks on the door he had heard in his sleep.

"The whole thing was my fault, though," summed up Charlie, as, having settled with the smiling
landlord, they walked over to the station. "I should not have let you go off alone in a new
country; but then," he could not help adding, "you should not have left the rest of the flock,
when you were shut up in the pen."

"I never will again," said Will, as they took their places in the train for Cologne; "I'll
be in future the meekest lamb they ever drove. But anyway," he continued, as the cars rolled
slowly away from the dépôt, "I can say I have been in Belgium, even though it was only by mistake,
and so have experienced not an Arabian but a Belgian Night."

HETTY.

BY MRS. W. J. HAYS.

They were all in the sitting-room. Matilda Ann was trimming a bonnet to wear to the concert
which was to take place that very evening in the Town-hall, and the roses did look so pretty
that Hetty wished she was grown up enough to have some one come for her in a brand-new buggy,
and take her to a concert; but where was the use of wishing? Every one told her she must not
be too childish, and then every one said she mustn't think herself a young woman, and want
long gowns and trains, and big braids and puffs--that there was "time enough yet." She wondered
what "time enough" meant. It seemed to her as if it must be the time of freedom, and certainly
that was a long way off.

Jane was sewing strips of woollen cloth together for the big balls that were to make carpet,
and their mother was darning stockings, and they were all talking about the school-teacher
who had lately come to the little brown house next to the district school. Jane said she was
"hity-tity," mother said she didn't like to see so many furbelows, and Matilda Ann criticised
her manner of wearing her hair; so Hetty ventured to say, "I don't think it matters much what
she wears, or how she looks, if she can teach the children."

"Yes," said the mother, "it does matter; for children, need a good example."

"Of course she ought to be neat," said Hetty.

"Yes, and simple, and not be sticking on jewelry every day."

"For that matter, Aunt Maria says people in the city wear diamonds when they go to market."

"That does not make it any more sensible; fools are to be found everywhere."

"But, mother, Miss Martin isn't a fool; she is very nice. I think you would like her."

"Perhaps so," said the mother, somewhat doubtfully; adding: "She had on a flounced skirt the
last time I saw her. It takes a great deal of time to do them up nicely. Only rich folk ought
to wear them."

"Suppose some one gave her her fine clothes?" said Hetty.

"Not very likely; but that would make it a little better."

Hetty went out to take a swing under the elm-tree, wondering why big people couldn't find something
better to talk about than what other people wore. Then Jane spoke up:

"Hetty always hates to hear others spoken of when they can't take their own part."

"She's a good little thing, anyhow," said Matilda Ann, who was standing before the looking-glass,
in high good humor, with the new bonnet on, and turning her head from side to side, so that
she could the better survey the trimmings.

"Well," said Mrs. Hall, "you've stood there long enough, Matilda Ann. I never did see such
an amazin' amount of vanity as there is nowadays."

"Oh, mother, I dare say you were just as silly when you were young," said Jane.

"No," said the mother, severely, "I never was given to fineries; my heart was set on higher
things."

"I don't see, then, how father ever got the chance to do any courting."

"Jane," said Mrs. Hall, "Jedediah Hall would never have married me if I had been like the girls
of the present day, who scorn to churn, and to wash, and to do housework of any sort. He respected
a woman who could make her family comfortable."

"But the courting--did he ever talk nonsense, mother?"

"The courting was over in short meter, I can tell you. Nonsense?--no, there was no nonsense
about him. Well, well, it's a long time ago." And she arose, and went out into the kitchen.
The table was set for tea, and the biscuits were ready for the oven. She went to the cellar
to skim the cream, and found a large bowl of custard had been left over from the dinner. There
was more than would be eaten on their own table. What would she do with it? Pretty soon Hetty
heard her mother calling her: "Hetty! Hetty!"

She ran in quickly from the garden.

"How would you like to take some of this custard to Miss Martin?"

"Splendid!" said Hetty. "But, mother," she said, hesitating, "I thought you didn't like her?"

"Pshaw, child, I didn't say so. I said I didn't approve of too much dress. Get your hat and
a tin pail. Here;" and she poured out the custard. "Now go, and mind you come home in time
for tea."

It was a level road, and the afternoon a pleasant one late in the fall. Hetty could not chase
the squirrels, for fear of upsetting her pail; neither could she pick berries, for they were
all gone. And so she trudged on silently, wishing she were as old as Matilda Ann, so that she
might go to the concert. As she passed a lot which was covered with stubble, a boy appeared,
leaning over the fence. He was a big fellow, and the son of an old neighbor, and Hetty liked
him, but there were people who said he was mischievous, and told tales of him, which perhaps
made him somewhat shy. He nodded pleasantly enough to her, however, and asked her where she
was going.

"Down to Miss Martin's," was Hetty's reply.

"I say, Hetty," said Jim, "do you think Miss Martin thought it was me who tried to frighten
her the other night?"

"No," said Hetty.

"Well, I was afraid she did. Give a dog a bad name, you know, and he never gets rid of it."

"But, Jim, you don't mean to speak of yourself that way?" said Hetty.

"Yes, I do; people believe anything of me, and I half the time get the credit of doing things
that never came into my head."

"I only heard a little about Miss Martin's fright; some one chased her, I believe."

"Yes, Sam Tompkins made believe he was a tramp, and scared her 'most out of her wits. He ought
to have been shot. I licked him when I heard he had tried to make out it was me who did it,
and I'll lick him again, too."

"Oh, don't, Jim; you had better forget all about it."

"Indeed I won't; I mean to make him repent it. See here, Hetty, I've got some tickets for the
concert. Don't you want to go?"

"Don't I?" said Hetty; "I guess I do; but I can't, you know."

"Why not?"

"Oh, I am not big enough yet," said Hetty, blushing.

"Now I'll tell you what I'll do. If you will ask Miss Martin to go, I'll take you both, for,
you see, I want to be sure that she doesn't hold any ill-will against me; and if she goes,
all the people hereabouts will know that I was not the mean sneaking coward who tried to frighten
her."

"All right," said Hetty. "I understand; and I will go on now as fast as I can, and coax Miss
Martin to go."

"Let me know what she says when you come back, and I'll get the horse hitched, for father said
he'd let me have the wagon."

"I will," said Hetty, already hastening on her way.

The teacher was sitting in rather a lonely and dejected mood at her window as Hetty's bright
face appeared before her. She was a young girl, with soft brown eyes and a patient expression.
It was her first experience at district-school teaching, and she found it laborious. Hetty
soon told her errand, and in her eagerness so mixed up the concert and the custard and Matilda
Ann's new bonnet that Miss Martin was bewildered, but after a while made out what it all meant.

"So James Stokes wants me to go to the concert?"

"Yes, ma'am, and me too."

"Have you permission?"

"I'll get it, Miss Martin. I'm sure mother'll say 'yes,' and I sha'n't tell any one but her.
I want to surprise Matilda Ann, and I will get ready and come here, so that Jim Stokes needn't
go to our house."

"Please thank your mother kindly, Hetty, for the custard; it is so nice. And tell James I shall
be happy to go. I knew he was not the one who frightened me."

Away Hetty flew, as fast as possible, to arrange the matter at home. Mrs. Hall could not say
no, and Hetty soon exchanged her every-day clothes for her best gown and ribbons.

The Town-hall was crowded, and Hetty heard some one in a pink bonnet say, "Why, there's our
Hetty; how did the child get here?" Then she turned her smiling face upon Matilda Ann in triumph.

When the concert was half over, and the singers were taking a rest, a very grand-looking person
came to Miss Martin and said: "How do you do, my dear Amy? I am so glad to see you! And who
is this little friend with you?"

Then the teacher spoke very kindly of Hetty as one of her best pupils, and Jim was also introduced,
and the grand-looking lady said some very pleasant things to them.

"Who is that?" whispered Hetty.

"It is my aunt," replied Miss Martin--"the one who gives me so many pretty things. She would
like me to live with her, but I prefer to maintain myself. I could never dress half so tastefully
if she did not give me such nice clothes."

"Oh," said Hetty, much pleased to hear this confirmation of her own charitable supposition.
"May I tell mother about it?" she asked.

"Certainly," said Miss Martin; "I wish you would, for I don't want to be thought extravagant."

From that time Miss Martin had no stancher friends than Jim and Hetty; and when one day Jim's
big brother led her up the aisle of the village church as a bride, there were two young people
behind her in white gloves and ribbons who looked almost as bright and happy as the chief actors
of the day.

A LITTLE GIRL'S IMPRESSIONS OF MADEIRA.

BY KATIE C. YORKE.

It was a beautiful clear day in October when I had my first view of Madeira. The high blue
mountains, the green shores, and the white city of Funchal gleaming in the distance, looked
very lovely to us as we approached the island.

About noon we anchored at a little distance from the city, and swarms of row-boats came around
the ship. Some of them were full of half-naked brown boys, and if we threw a piece of money
into the beautiful blue water, they would dive down and catch it before it reached the bottom.
Some of the other boats were full of men, who came on board, bringing fans, canary-birds, parrots,
feather flowers, basket-work, filigree jewelry, and many other things to sell.

We and some of the passengers got into a row-boat, after a good deal of trouble, because there
is always a heavy swell there, so one minute the boat was very high up, and the next very low
down. When we had managed to get in, we rowed to the city. There were great waves dashing up
on the shore, and four or five bare-legged men rushed into the water, and drew the boat on
land just as a wave came in.

What was our surprise to see waiting for us, instead of a horse and carriage, a great sleigh
drawn by bullocks. This is called a bullock-car in English, and a carro in Portuguese. We got
into one of them, with a great deal of laughter, and drove to the hotel. The driver walked
by the side of the carro, and threw the end of a greasy rag first under one runner and then
under the other, to make it run more easily.

When we arrived at the hotel, we found it was a great white building, with a lovely garden,
which contained mango, guava, banana, custard-apple, and many other trees. Among them was what
was called the moon-tree; it was covered with great white bell-like flowers, and was very beautiful.
There were a great many gorgeous flowers and curious plants that we do not have in this country.
The garden was surrounded by a wall eight feet high, and there were some fish-geraniums which
reached above the top of it. There was a little arch covered with the night-blooming cereus,
and that evening, when the buds had opened, we went out to see them in the moonlight. They
were beautiful white blossoms, as large as your head, and had a faint perfume.

Next day we took a hammock ride about the town and surrounding country. Each hammock was fitted
out with a mattress, pillows, and canopy, and slung on a long pole carried by two men. We reclined
lazily against the pillows, and enjoyed the ride very much. The men, when they went up hill,
carried us feet downward, but once they forgot, and carried us feet upward, and as the hill
was very steep, we felt as if we were standing on our heads.

The houses of Funchal are low; and covered with white stucco, which looks very neat, but those
of the poor have only one window without any glass, and are very dark and dismal inside. The
streets are narrow, and some of them very steep. We often passed gardens surrounded by high
walls, over which hung lovely flowering vines. Out in the country there were lantanas, geraniums,
and fuchsias which seemed to be growing wild, and great cactus plants everywhere.

PENCIL DRAWING.--No. 1.

This beautiful and graceful art may be acquired by every girl and boy in the land who will
take the necessary steps. And they are pleasant steps.

A pretty drawing-book, a nicely cut No. 2 Faber's drawing pencil, a piece of black India rubber,
some pieces of tissue-paper to cover the drawings, unless the drawing-book is furnished with
tissue-paper. These are the implements required. In this pencil drawing which I now recommend
there are no lines, straight and slanting, repeated to utter weariness. This is object drawing,
and drawing from nature also, and the objects are inexhaustible, being the leaves which nature
gives to every plant and tree.

Drawings of leaves are beautiful when well done. The writer knew a young girl of twelve or
thirteen years who began with drawing simple, easy leaves, and went on to more difficult ones
season after season. Her drawing-books were charming; and not this alone, for she acquired
a fund of pleasant knowledge, which loses none of its delight as time goes on. She began with
leaves, picked from the house plants which her mother cultivated.

As the spring came on, she sought the wild leaves in the woods. No one who has not tried it
can judge of the interest felt in the beauty and wonderful variety in the growth and shapes
of leaves. They seem endless; and when to these are added the leaves of forest trees, the enchanting
maples, beeches, birches, and hosts of others, it may be imagined that young fingers may find
ample employment in portraying these, to say nothing of the wild flowers which come on in the
New England woods--the early anemones, hepatica, bloodroot, and all the flowery train--as the
season advances.

This young girl learned to draw with great accuracy, and to this day (for it is years since
she began) her ready pencil can sketch any object with ease and skill, the beginning of which
was the effort to draw a leaf of smilax.

I have a few simple outlines of leaves ready, but will reserve them for another time.

[Begun in No. 17 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, February 24.]

BIDDY O'DOLAN.

BY MRS. ZADEL B. GUSTAFSON.

CHAPTER III.

Any one who had seen Biddy O'Dolan in the old hard days, when she was dirty and ragged and
wretched and rude, and lived in the street, and slept in a cellar, would hardly have known
her if he had seen her three weeks after she came to live with the Kennedys.

Biddy was not pretty, but she had a clear skin--now the dirt was washed off--and bright, earnest
eyes. Now, too, she wore neat and pretty clothing. Her dark curly hair was nicely brushed,
and tied with fresh ribbons. She had a small, pleasant room all for herself and her doll, and
Miss Kennedy had taught her how to keep it in order.

Biddy had given a great deal of trouble to this gentle lady at first, because Biddy had many
unpleasant habits. She used bad words; she did not seem to think it any harm to tell lies;
she was not at all neat; she was sometimes willful and disobedient; she was often careless,
broke dishes, tore her clothes, and put things out of order. These things were a much greater
trouble to Miss Kennedy than Biddy knew. Miss Kennedy was so good and kind and true that Biddy's
faults grieved her much, and carelessness and disorder were like pain to her, she was herself
so neat and pure, like a fine white pearl.

But Miss Kennedy never forgot what poor Biddy's life had been, and Biddy was so affectionate
and grateful, and tried so hard, that Miss Kennedy grew to love her dearly, and little by little
Biddy conquered her old bad habits.

She did not see much of Mr. Kennedy, who was very busy, and was away a great deal. When she
did see him, he had always a kind word and a pleasant smile for her, which made Biddy feel
as if he took care of her.

Charley had brought her the doll, as Biddy said he would. But she could not make him come within
a block of the house; and when he saw Biddy so fresh and clean in her pretty new garments,
he had blushed and run away almost without speaking. She did not see much of him. She met him
sometimes when she was out on an errand. The last time she had seen him he had looked very
much pleased, but she had not been able to get him to speak to her. She thought him more bashful
than ever.

Biddy did not forget Charley, or cease to wish he might have a nice home in the same house
with her; but she was kept so busy with her easy but constant duties in waiting upon Miss Kennedy,
who was also teaching her to read, that time flew very fast with Biddy, and it was midsummer
when one day she went out on an errand, and--did not come back!

Miss Kennedy waited and wondered; and when it began to grow dark, and Biddy had not come back,
she grew really alarmed. One of the servants had been sent out twice to look for Biddy, but
in vain. At last, just as Miss Kennedy was about to send for him, Mr. Kennedy came in. As soon
as he learned the cause of his sister's alarm, he comforted her in the very best way by starting
out to search for Biddy himself.

He had not gone more than twenty steps before a boy, who had watched him come out, stopped
him, and to his great surprise gave him a message from Biddy.

Mr. Kennedy ran back and spoke with his sister, and then went quickly away with the boy who
had brought Biddy's message.

Now this is what had happened.

After Biddy had done her errand, she thought about Charley, and felt a great wish to see him.
She was prettily dressed, and it came into her head that it would be a grand thing if she could
walk by Mrs. Brown's stand, and see if the old woman would know her. For a long time after
she ran away from Mrs. Brown, Biddy had been afraid to go near her old home for fear Mrs. Brown
might claim her, and perhaps in some way be able to hide her from her new friends. But she
had lost most of this fear, and now thought it would be great fun to step up to the stand and
buy something, and see what the old woman would say.

The old days when she and Charley used to be so much together came into Biddy's mind as she
walked along, swinging her parasol. She remembered a great many little things about him and
his quiet kindnesses to her, which she had hardly noticed at the time, and she thought with
new pleasure of Mr. Kennedy's words to her in the morning. He had passed her in the hall as
he was going out, and had laid his hand on her head and said: "I think I shall be able to do
something for Charley very soon. Will you like that, Biddy?" And Biddy, as usual, when her
heart was very full, had not said a word. "I'll tell Charley," she thought to herself.

At last when there was only one more block to walk before reaching Mrs. Brown's stall, and
Biddy was just beginning to think about what she should say to the old woman, she noticed an
unusual stir down the street. People old and young were darting about, running around and forward,
yelling at the tops of their voices; and there was another low hoarse sound Biddy could not
make out. Nearest were some children running in her direction and screaming. Biddy stopped
near a pile of empty boxes. She was full of wonder and fear. One of the children was Charley.
He saw Biddy at the same moment she saw him, and it seemed as if he flew, he came toward her
so fast. As he came up with her he grasped her arms, turned her around, and pushed her toward
the boxes with one quick movement.

"Up wid 'ee, Biddy! Quick--oh, quick!" he called to her.

