The music sounded a flourish, and the seven competitors underwent another trial, in which only
two were successful--young Garcilaso, and Antonio de Leyva. The contest was now to be divided
by the two, and pink and green were the colours that contended for the victory; accordingly
their quadrilles, as well as the spectators of both sexes who had adopted those colours, awaited
the result of the contest, with anxious suspense. Garcilaso now made a graceful curvet, and
spring at once with the celerity of an arrow, in the middle of his precipitous career he extended
his lance with perfect ease and dexterity, and again carried away the ring. Don Antonio next
advanced; and having indulged for a short space in several feats of horsemanship, he sped towards
the honored tree on which was suspended victory or defeat. His horsemanship was so perfect
that, excepting the feather on his head which streamed before the wind, all appeared like the
figure of a centaur, flying meteor-like along the plain. His lance, however, missed the middle
of the ring, and touching one of its edges, such was the rapidity of Don Antonio's motion that
the ring sprung high in the air, when the dexterous cavalier, to the admiration of the surrounding
multitude, turned short, and before the ring had time to fall, he caught it fairly with his
lance. This extraordinary feat excited universal applause, and some even vociferated that Don
Antonio was deservedly entitled to the prize. However, as Garcilaso had likewise succeeded
in carrying away the ring, the candidates were obliged to refer to another trial, which was
decided in favor of young de Leyva, who was immediately escorted by the triumphant party to
receive the reward amidst the exhilarating strains of the music, and the acclamation of the
vast concourse.

As soon as the victorious cavalcade arrived near the queen, Don Antonio and the chief of the
quadrille vaulted nimbly from their horses, when the conqueror knelt at the feet of his gracious
sovereign, who, with a condescending smile, threw the portrait round his neck.

"Wear this," she then said, "in commemoration of thy skill, and the regard of Isabella. Remember
that this gift is a gage of my royal word to accord to the bearer any boon he may have to demand.
Upon the presentation of this token it shall be granted. My royal word is passed."

Don Antonio humbly kissed the hand of his queen, and mingling again with his party, they paraded
the place in ceremonial triumph, previous to their departure. The feats of De Leyva, both in
the tourney and the game of the ring, had secured for him the admiration of all the spectators,
and more particularly amongst the fairer part. Many were the glances bestowed upon him by sparkling
eyes and many a gentle bosom beat high with emotion as he inclined towards them his handsome
figure in graceful salutations.--Even the proud Leonor could not entirely conceal the inward
satisfaction she felt at the triumph of the young Don Antonio; for, notwithstanding her efforts,
she could but ill disguise a latent feeling of interest and delight. Certainly it was not love;
for, according to general opinion, she had irretrievably fixed her affections on another object.
But yet she was in that state of mind which is more easily felt than described; a state too
glowing to be called mere friendship--too cold to be denominated love; it was something between
both--a tender sentiment of regard towards one whom she was taught to consider her inferior
in point of rank and fortune.

Leonor de Aguilar had inherited from her warlike father that pride and loftiness of spirit
which in some measure spurned the softer sensations of the heart. She scarcely believed in
the existence of unbounded, unconquerable passion; her ideas were too much engrossed in the
dazzling visions of glory and fame to descend to a minute analysis of the various gradations
of tenderness, and the progressive workings of love.--She seemed to sympathize more with the
lofty feelings of her father, than with those of her woman's heart. She had implicitly trusted
to him the care of her happiness, and upon his slightest intimation she had consented to receive
Gomez Arias as her future husband, and he had too many brilliant qualities not to meet with
her approbation.

Gomez Arias possessed in an eminent degree great military talents, and an unbounded desire
of glory and renown,--qualities which, in the opinion of Leonor, were paramount to every other
consideration. Accordingly, she loved him, as she thought, in a manner worthy of the daughter
of Don Alonso de Aguilar.

In this state of mind she awaited the marriage, which had only been retarded by the untoward
accident which had unhappily brought the life of Don Rodrigo de Cespedes into mortal jeopardy.

Meantime the extraordinary valour and address which Gomez Arias had displayed in the tournament
(for Leonor felt conscious that the incognito knight could be no other), tended considerably
to increase her admiration for him, and to enhance her desire of uniting her fortunes to those
of a man so well calculated to merit by his services the approbation of his country.

The games being over, various chiefs, such as the Alcayde de los Donceles, Count Cifuentes,
and others of equal merit, departed with the forces under their command, to act against the
rebels, now daily increasing both in number and strength.

Meantime Don Alonso de Aguilar, on whom devolved the most dangerous part of the enterprize,
that of penetrating into the heart of those terrible mountains of the Alpujarras, felt scarcely
satisfied with his detention at Granada, as he considered every moment spent in inactivity
as lost to glory and renown.

Great, therefore, was his satisfaction when he communicated to his daughter the perfect recovery
of Don Rodrigo de Cespedes. Nothing now could prevent the immediate appearance of Gomez Arias
at Granada, for the celebration of the nuptials, or throw any impediment on Don Alonso's departure
against the rebel Moors. Intelligence, therefore, was sent to Don Lope, who lay concealed at
Guadix, that he might repair with the utmost expedition to Granada,--an invitation which Aguilar
entertained no doubt would be most anxiously welcomed by that cavalier. Under this impression
Don Alonso now turned his thoughts solely to the object that was ever in his mind, and engrossed
his every sentiment. Two or three days more and he would be marching against the enemies of
his country, and adding new laurels to the flourishing branches that already graced his glorious
name.

Meantime his daughter Leonor evinced an equal anxiety for the return of her lover, not so much
for any selfish gratification of feeling as for the more noble ambition of claiming the prerogative
to call by the endearing names of father and husband, the two first warriors of the land.

Thus impressed, both father and daughter awaited with impatience the following day, which,
beyond the possibility of doubt, was to bring Gomez Arias to the city.

CHAPTER V.

    Sterling. True, True; and since you only transfer from one
    girl to another, it is no more than transferring so much stock,
    you know.

    Sir John. The very thing.

    Sterling. Odso! I had quite forgot. We are reckoning
    without our host here.

                                  Clandestine Marriage.

"What is to be the wonder now?" asked Gomez Arias, as he observed his valet and confidant,
Roque, approaching, with an unusual expression of gravity upon his countenance, such indeed
as was seldom discernible in the features of the merry buffoon.

"What is it you want?"

"I wish to leave your service, Señor."

"Leave my service! Surely, Roque, you are not tired of so indulgent a master?"

"Yes, Sir," answered Roque, "I am; and what is more, I have been so these three years--may
I speak out?"

"Why," said Don Lope, "you never till now asked leave to be impertinent--but let me hear your
complaints."

"In the first place you are not rich--a grievous fault."

"How can I help that?" demanded Gomez Arias.

"Señor, you could have helped it once; but that is passed. Then you play----"

"Here's the devil preaching morality," exclaimed his master, with a laugh. "Oh! most conscientious
Roque, what are thine objections to this amusement?"

"To the amusement in itself, none; I am only discontented with the consequences. If you gain,
you very composedly enjoy the whole fruits of your success; if, on the contrary, you lose,
I get more than a reasonable share of your ill-humours, with which you most liberally indulge
me. Now, Don Lope, I should like fair play, if play you will; to feel a little more the effect
of the first, and not quite so much of the second."

"Thou art a pleasant sort of a fool, Roque," said Gomez Arias, as he leisurely twirled round
his curling jet-black mustachios, and with much complacency eyed his fine figure in a mirror.

"Thank you, Sir," replied the valet, with a low bow; "but be pleased to consider, that the
good opinion you entertain of my talents is unfortunately no adequate compensation for the
privations and numberless perils which I undergo in your service. To continue, then, the list
of----"

"My faults!" interrupted his master.

"I only say of my complaints," returned the valet: "next to your being a gamester, what I most
deprecate is, your military profession, and the fame which you have acquired by your bravery."

"Good heavens!" cried Gomez Arias, "why thou art precisely complaining of the qualities that
most become a gentleman."

"But I am no gentleman," pertinently observed Roque; "and I cannot imagine why I should be
exposed to the dangers attendant on heroes, without likewise reaping their rewards."

"I glory in being a soldier," exclaimed Don Lope, a sudden burst of martial enthusiasm glowing
on his manly countenance.--"Yes, I have laid low many of the enemies of my country; and before
I die I hope often to try my good sword against those accursed and rebellious Moors of the
Alpujarras."

"All that is very fine, certainly," said Roque; "but do you know, Señor, that I do not consider
the country so much indebted to you, as no doubt you most complacently imagine."

"What!" cried the cavalier, with looks of displeasure.

"Pray be temperate, Don Lope; I do not mean to offend. You have unquestionably done great services
to Spain, by ridding her of many an unbelieving Moor; but reflect, Sir, that your sword has
not been less fatal to Christian blood. In battle you hew down infidels to your soul's content,
and in the intervals of peace, to keep you in practice, I suppose, you take no less care to
send the bravest of her majesty's warriors to the grave. Now put this in the balance, and let
us consider whether the country does not suffer more by your duels in peace, than she actually
gains by your courage in war. But now comes the most terrible of all your peccadilloes--of
all my complaints, I mean."

"And which is that, pray?"

"The invincible propensity you have for intrigue, and the no less unfortunate attendant upon
it--inconstancy."

"Inconstancy!" exclaimed Gomez Arias. "How should it be otherwise? Inconstancy is the very
soul of love."

"I will not attempt to argue that point with so great an adept; my remonstrances are merely
limited to the results, and I can truly aver that my life in time of peace is, if possible,
more miserable than in war; for what with carrying love-letters, bribing servants, attending
serenades, watching the movements of venerable fathers, morose duennas, and fierce-looking
brothers, I cannot enjoy a moment's rest."

"Why, 'tis true," said Don Lope, "my life is solely devoted to love and war."

"I rather think it a continual war," retorted the valet. "It may be much to your taste, Sir,
but I, that am neither of so amorous a temperament, nor of so warlike a disposition, cannot
enjoy the amusement so well. Instead of passing the nights quietly in bed, as good Christians
should do, we employ them in parading the silent streets, putting in requisition all the established
signals of love, and singing amorous songs to the tender cadences of the love-inspiring guitar.
Even this I might endure with Christian resignation, were it not for the disagreeable results
which generally terminate our laudable occupations. It often happens that whilst you are dying
with love, and I with fear and apprehension, we meet with persons who unfortunately are not
such decided amateurs of music. Some surly ill-disposed brother, or unsuccessful lover of the
beauty, is invariably sure to come and disturb our harmony; then discord begins--swords are
drawn--women scream--alguazils pounce upon us, and thus the sport goes on, till one of the
galanes[11] is dead or wounded, or till the alguazils are so strong as to render a prudent
retreat advisable. Then by some ill fortune I am sure to be collared by the brother or the
alguazils in question, and without further ceremony, by way of remunerating merit and encouraging
a servant for faithfully serving his master, I am entertained with sundry hearty cudgellings,
liberally bestowed on my miserable hide. When they have not left a single sound bone in my
skin, they kindly permit me to go, telling me, for consolation, to thank my stars, and that
another time I shall not escape so easily. With this pleasing assurance, I creep home as well
as I can, and then my humane and grateful master, by way of sympathising with the misfortunes
I suffer on his account, fiercely demands--'Roque! where have you been loitering, Sir?' Calls
me a most negligent rascal, and other names equally gratifying, and upon the recital of my
tragical adventure, very coolly, and as he thinks very justly, observes--'It serves you right--'tis
all your fault--why did you not watch better?'"

"Roque," said Gomez Arias, "you have told me the same story over and over again, and I do not
see the necessity of your repeating it now."

"I beg your pardon, Don Lope Gomez Arias," responded the valet, with most ludicrous solemnity,
"but I am firmly resolved to quit your service in good earnest; for I perceive you are bent
on getting into new difficulties, and I feel no inclination to go in search of fresh adventures.
Lately you suddenly disappeared on some mysterious expedition, and I am sure you have been
to Granada, to be a candidate in the tournament, notwithstanding the perilous nature of such
an undertaking; for had you been discovered!----"

"Enough, Roque--that danger is past."

"Very well, Sir; but there are a thousand others that are not. Will you be pleased to reply
to a few questions?"

Gomez Arias, to spare any superfluous expenditure of words, nodded assent.

"How long is it since we left Granada?"--asked the valet.

"Two months or so," replied his master.

"We quitted that city," proceeded Roque, "in consequence of the mortal wounds you inflicted
on Don Rodrigo de Cespedes, your rival in the affections of Leonor de Aguilar."

"True."

"We sought a refuge here in Guadix, to lie concealed until the storm blow over."

"Right."

"And you are now creditably employed in gaining the affections of a young and innocent girl,
who knows no more of you than she does of his holiness the pope."

"Well?"

"I don't suppose you intend to marry both these ladies?"

"Certainly not."

"Then it puzzles me to decide how you can reconcile these matters; and as I foresee that mischief
is likely to ensue, you must excuse me if I prudently think of withdrawing before the evil
is unavoidable. If fortunately both or even one of your mistresses were a plebeian beauty,
I might be persuaded to hush my apprehensions, but as it is I cannot; two ladies of rank are
concerned."

Thus far had Roque proceeded in his eloquent and moral remonstrance, when Gomez Arias turned
round, took up a cane that lay near him, and walking very deliberately to his valet with the
most perfect composure--"Now, Roque," he said, "you must allow I have listened very attentively
to your prosing. I have had quite enough of your nonsense for this morning, so I beg you to
close your arguments, unless you really wish that I should honor them with a most unanswerable
reply."

Here to illustrate his meaning, he very expressively shook the cane, and Roque as prudently
retreated; for he knew his master strictly adhered to his word on occasions of this nature.

"With respect to your quitting my service," continued Don Lope, "I have no sort of objection,
provided that when you part with me, you are likewise disposed to part with your ears, for
I have taken such a fancy to you, my dear Roque, that I cannot possibly allow you to quit me,
without leaving me behind a token of remembrance. And now," he added in a more serious tone,
"withdraw immediately, and mind your business."

Roque made an humble bow and retired. Gomez Arias in this instance, as well as in many others,
took advantage of that uncontrollable authority which strong minds generally assume over their
inferiors. The valet had indeed resolved several times to leave his master, for it happened
that this same Roque had no particular relish for canings, and other favors of the kind which
were liberally administered to him, as a remuneration for his master's achievements. Moreover,
he had the nicest sense of justice, and he could not but feel the shocking impropriety of accepting
a reward that was unquestionably due to his superiors. Indeed, it is but fair to add, he never
acquiesced in the obligation, until it was actually forced upon him.

Roque was moreover blessed with a conscience--that sort of prudential conscience which must
be considered as a most valuable acquisition. He certainly was not so unreasonable as to expect
a spirited nobleman to lead the life of a sequestered monk, nor could he object to his master's
intrigues, but he nevertheless found it extremely objectionable that these should not be kept
within the bounds of common prudence. Now, could Gomez Arias have limited his gallantries to
the seduction of farmers' daughters, or debauching trademen's wives, Roque would most implicitly
have approved of the practice, inasmuch as in this case, his master would only be asserting
a sort of hereditary right attached to those of his class. But to be deceiving two ladies of
distinction was really too much for the delicate feelings of the conscientious menial.

Again, Roque could not urge anything against the courage of his master; he only objected to
the effects of its superabundance; for this superabundance, together with Don Lope's unusually
amorous disposition, were constantly in opposition with the nicety of Roque's conscience, by
reason of the difficulties they gave rise to, in the fulfilment of the natural law of self-preservation.

It is an averred fact that Roque never wilfully put himself in the way of infringing so rational
a precept, and most fortunately he was endowed with a quality highly favorable to the observance
thereof. A quality which other individuals not blessed with the same scruples, would denominate
cowardice.

This is not all: the valet was far from being of a romantic turn of mind; he evinced no taste
whatever for moonlit scenery, and nocturnal adventure; and he was vulgar enough to prefer the
gross advantages of a sound slumber to all the sentimental beauties of the silvered moon and
its appendages.

These considerations dwelt strongly on the mind of Roque, and he had accordingly several times
resolved to quit his master, but such was the dominion which Gomez Arias held over him, that
the valet's resolutions fell to the ground, whenever he attempted to put them in practice.

CHAPTER VI.

    Ma chi'l vede e non l'ama?
    Ardito umano cor, nobil fierezza,
    Sublime ingegno--Ah! perchè tal ti fero
    Natura e il cielo?

                                    Alfieri.

Don Lope Gomez Arias was a man whose will had seldom been checked, and he placed the most unbounded
confidence in the magnitude of his resources, physical and intellectual. Nature had indeed
been lavished in conferring on this individual her choicest favors. To the most undaunted courage
and quickness of resolve, he united the greatest powers of mind, and brilliancy of talent,
but he was unfortunately divested of those genuine feelings of the heart, which alone can render
these qualities desirable.

His courage, talents, and abilities, had rendered him an object of dread, not only to the enemies
of his country, but to the rivals of his love or ambition. By the men he was generally disliked,
feared or envied. Unfortunately the softer sex entertained for him far different sentiments.--Alas!
they could not discover the void within his heart, through the dazzling splendour of his outward
form, and habitual allurements of manner. Many had already been the victims of his seducing
arts; were they to blame?--perhaps they were only to be pitied. He possessed every resource
that professed libertines employ, to inveigle the affections of the innocent maiden, or attract
the admiration of the more experienced woman. Besides his courage and resolution--qualities
as much more prized by females, as they seldom fall to their share, Gomez Arias was engaging
in his deportment and without any alloy of servility in his address; indeed he seemed rather
to command attention, than to court it, and the general expression of his features was that
of pride, tempered with the polish of gentlemanly bearing.

In his personal appearance he was remarkably handsome, being of tall and majestic stature,
to which his finely turned limbs were in strict proportion. There was an intelligence in the
piercing glance of his dark eye, and a smile of mixed gaiety and satire sat habitually upon
his lip. To his other attractions he added a set of regular though somewhat large features,
which were shaded by a profusion of black glossy curls, and the superb mustachios and pera[12]
that clothed his upper lip and chin.

Such was the principal hero of this tale. Spite of all the resources of his mind, Gomez Arias
found himself at the present moment involved in deep perplexity, and much at a loss how to
extricate himself therefrom. He had received a letter from Don Alonso de Aguilar, father of
his future bride, announcing the perfect recovery of his rival, Don Rodrigo, and urging a speedy
return to Granada. But, unluckily, Gomez Arias felt in no hurry to return. Certainly, Granada
was at the time particularly interesting, and far preferable to Guadix. Again, the beauty of
Leonor was unrivalled at court--a great consideration to Don Lope. She was rich and of the
first rank--greater consideration still; and bearing in mind the influence that her father,
the celebrated Aguilar, enjoyed with the queen, a marriage with his daughter would open the
road to the highest preferment, and yet our hero felt loath to return to Granada. The blooming
Theodora de Monteblanco was then the reigning idol of the moment. She had fixed for a time
his errant heart, and it was now that Don Lope perceived the great inconveniency of the unity
of man; and certainly a lover of his description ought to be duplex for the opportunity of
satisfying both duty and inclination.

In this state of irresolution Gomez Arias remained for some time. His sacred engagement to
Leonor, and the brilliant dreams of ambition that sported before his fancy, could not all chase
away the image of Theodora; for in this lovely girl he found all the perfections of his former
mistresses, with an absolute exemption from their foibles.

Theodora, at the tender age of seventeen, exhibited already the matured charms of a form voluptuously
beautiful, blended with the delightful innocence of manner characteristic of that early stage
of life, when the heart is yet unacquainted with guile, and unpractised in the deceits of the
world. Her complexion was of a delicate white, without any other colour than that which occasionally
mantled upon her cheek when called forth by the sensibility of her feelings, or diffused by
the influence of some passing emotion. So lovely and yet so pensive was her countenance that
but for the rapturous expression of her large dark eyes, partially revealed through their long
silken fringes, and the profusion of sable ringlets which floated with unrestrained luxuriance
over her exquisitely turned neck and shoulders, you might have thought that she had been a
master-piece of some divine sculptor, who had successfully imitated, in the purest alabaster,
the fairest work of nature.

Theodora loved Gomez Arias with all the enthusiasm of a romantic girl's first love. She felt
the most ardent attachment, and could not,--would not conceal it from the object of her adoration.
She loved him with the genuine simplicity of a heart incapable of deceit; and, unpractised
in the school of worldly prudence, unacquainted with the arts to which more experienced women
resort for the purpose of enhancing their own charms, or fixing more firmly the affections
of men, she had surrendered her whole soul to her lover with the most confiding innocence,
and an implicit reliance on his unbounded return to her tenderness.

This complete devotedness flattered the vanity of Gomez Arias. He beheld an angelic girl who
centered all her happiness in his love, and in the ardour of her feelings was incapable of
admitting the least alloy of cold calculating precaution. He was charmed with a character cast
in the mould of nature, untutored yet by art, and, as amongst his former mistresses he had
never met with one so entirely devoted, he returned her love with the warmest admiration.

Gomez Arias was fondly indulging in these pleasing reveries, when his man, Roque, suddenly
burst upon him with a look full of information.

"Well, Sirrah!" cried Don Lope, "what means this intrusion?--Do you still stick to the wise
determination of quitting my service? Are you willing to comply with the conditions?"

"No, Señor," answered Roque, with conscious importance; "I come loaded with fresh proofs of
my inclination to serve you."

"Upon my honor," exclaimed Gomez Arias, "thou art marvellously complaisant, friend--thou hast
seen the duenna, I suppose?"

"Yes, Sir, and I have seen some one else, besides."

"Let us hear first of the duenna."

"We must go to night--her master is engaged with a guest from Granada. I saw them leave the
house myself."

Gomez Arias lost no time in preparing for the interview; and as night was now coming on, he
girded on his sword, and, flinging his cloak carelessly round him, sallied out accompanied
by his valet, on his nocturnal expedition.

"Art thou sure, good Roque," he demanded, "that you really saw the old gentleman leave his
mansion?"

"Quite sure, Don Lope--my eyes seldom deceive me; indeed I feel perfectly satisfied with their
capability. Never was there a more trusty pair, in descrying afar off a father, or brother,
or any other kind of unwelcome intruder upon moonlight meetings. Argus, they say, had a hundred
eyes, and yet was found at fault, whereas I have only two and----"

"They are sometimes as watchful," interrupted Don Lope.

