It would be useless for me to cite examples of such charters, for their number is countless,
and reference may be made to any of the great collections of mediaeval documents for confirmation
of what has just been said; for during the reigns of the earlier Carlovingians, the strong
reverence for the church and respect for its officers which characterized the Frankish nation
from the beginning led to the extension of these privileges to much the greater number of the
churches in the realm. Not all churches enjoyed such grants, and not all those accorded were
of the same liberal character, but the number given and the amount of liberty to the church
thereby bestowed was sufficient to give to the clergy that degree of importance which ultimately
culminated in making them the great lords that we find them in the tenth century. To give an
idea of the tenor of these documents, I will, however, quote a few lines from the earliest
one that has come under my notice in Carlovingian times, namely a diploma of the year 782,
issued to Geminiano II., bishop of Modena, and preserved in the archives of that city. Here
we find that: "Nullus judex publicus ad causas audiendum, vel freda exigendum, seu mansiones
aut paratas faciendum, nec fidejussiones tollendum neque hominibus ipsius episcopatus distringendum,"
etc. This is sufficient to show the character of exemption from secular jurisdiction.[90]

The next forward step in the advance of the bishops to temporal power was made probably about
the time of Charles the Bald; though under his two immediate predecessors, Lothaire[91] and
Lewis II.,[92] we already see indications of an extension of the quality of exemption to include
freedom from the payment of all public dues and the bearing of all public burdens.[93] It was
precisely the introduction of this element of exemption from public burdens which marked the
change in the nature of the immunities granted from the time of Charles the Bald, down to the
period when the element of jurisdiction and real temporal power was introduced under Guido
and Berenger. Up to this time, the grounds on which similar charters had been sought had been
protection from the oppression of the counts, and had resulted, as we have seen, in the granting
of simple charters of protection which were of no very great significance. But now it is exemption
from public burdens, etc., that is made prominent, in addition to a complete severance from
all jurisdiction and control of the secular power of the civitas in which the bishop's see
and domains are situated. That this concession also was sought by the bishop on the plea of
protection for his dependents from oppression and exaction, does not diminish its importance;
for it is easy to see that the line which separates recognized right of protection from recognized
right of jurisdiction is one easily effaced, and defense from the tyranny of a foreign power
can with little difficulty be transformed into domination by the professed defender.

That this was the order of development consequent on these changes is proved by the temporal
dominion gained by the bishops in the next century; and the steps of its growth marked by numerous
immunities granted by Charles the Bald, Karloman[94] his successor, and Charles the Fat, the
last of the Carlovingians in Italy. As a good example of the complete development of this advance
gained by the bishops, I will mention a charter given by Charles the Fat to John, bishop of
Arezzo, in the year 879, in which he confirms to him all the property and the rights of that
see, and takes him under his protection, "sub immunitatis suae defensione": he then goes on
to explain what this term meant, giving a full account of the extent to which a bishop's property
was exempted from the jurisdiction of the judex publicus, and protected from the imposition
of burdens and exactions.[95]

The next step in the growth of the episcopal power, and the most important of all, is the progress
from exemption to privilege, to jurisdiction; and occurs after the return of the kingship of
Italy to the hands of native kings.[96] It means the full development of the bishop into the
temporal ruler, and as such belongs properly to the history of the tenth century, and consequently
is beyond the limits of the present paper.

We have now considered individually and separately, in the course of their development, the
different elements which, when combined and modified by the various changes described, contributed
to form the solid foundation upon which the fabric of the future independent life of the cities
was to be built. We have been dealing exclusively with institutions, and the manner in which
their growth has been accomplished. For it is in the institutional life of a people, and in
the change and development it undergoes, that are to be found those elements which form the
basis for all future changes, whether simply in the form of its government or in the structure
of its social system. If once a clear picture is gained of the structural parts which form
the institutional framework of any particular development, and a truthful presentation of these
forming principles is proved and established, a detailed account of the material expression
of them is a matter of secondary importance.

I have not, in this paper, attempted to describe the actual condition of any particular municipality,
or even presented a picture which could represent the material existence of the cities as a
whole. Such a picture would only be a necessary part of a study of institutions when the city
itself was the unit to be investigated, and not of one whose chief object is to prove that
the city as such had no constitutional existence, but simply formed a part of another institutional
unit. When we reach a period in which the city stands out as an object of study in itself,
and when we do not have to trace its history only by learning that of other institutions which
included and overshadowed it, then the practical life of the people within its walls becomes
of the greatest importance, even to the smallest detail of civic law or city custom; and then,
and not till then, begins what could properly be called a study of municipal institutions.

During the three centuries that we have been investigating, the study of the Italian municipalities
has been, as we have seen, but the study of other institutions of which the municipality formed
only a part. No attempt has been made to do more than prove the origin and trace the earliest
development of those principles, which in their maturity were to gain for the municipal unit
that position where the study of its own structure would become an object of interest, entirely
apart and distinct from any of its surroundings. It has been shown that the city did not inherit
any such position from its immediate predecessor the Roman municipium, which we have learnt
to consider as overthrown, from a constitutional standpoint as annihilated; but that the new
principle introduced into state life by the northern conquerors of Italy, the principle of
administration by county rather than by urban divisions, relegated the city to an inferior
place as part of a rural holding, instead of leaving it the centre of a circle of rural dependencies.
Having demonstrated the absence of all constitutional recognition of the municipal unit as
such, I have attempted to show how a condition of such legal insignificance became generally
a condition of actual importance; how from a position of such negative interest, the advance
of the city was commenced along a road which was ultimately to restore it its old pre-eminence,
even adding to this in time the almost forgotten attribute of sovereignty. The motives for
this advance we have seen to be no higher ones than convenience and expediency, which made
the urbs of every civitas the natural centre of its local administration, thereby in fact,
if in no way by law, restoring to it some of the elements of individuality, if not of pre-eminence,
which it had lost. The means employed we have seen to be the functions of the various officers
of state: the dux, the count and the gastald, who connected the city with the state, and the
scabinus and the bishop, who represented this connection to the consciousness of the people.
We have noted the marked effects produced on the development of a more popular feeling, by
the changes introduced by the great emperor of the Franks; which, by diminishing the power
of the local lords, accomplished a double benefit; on the one hand by saving the people from
the arbitrary rule of a feudal superior; on the other, by causing the city to become more of
a dependence and more of a support to the state as a whole. And finally we have left the city
prepared, on the return of another dynasty of native kings, to accept, at least in a large
number of cases, the domination of another kind of lord, a spiritual one; who was to serve
as a medium for breaking up the power of the old lords of the civitas, and from whom it would
be an easier task for the commune of the future to wrest the power and the sovereignty which
was to make it a free and independent autonomy.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITIES REFERRED TO IN THE TEXT AND FOOT-NOTES.

Anastasius Bibliothecarius: Vitae Romanorum Pontificum. v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom.
III., Pars I.

Baluzii, Stephanus: Capitular. Regum Francorum additae sunt Marculfi Monachi et aliorum formulae
veteres. Parisiis, 1780. 2 vols. fol.

Bethmann-Hollweg: Schrift über den Ursprung der lombardischen Städtefreiheit.

Bouquet, Martin: Recueil des historiens des Gaules et de la France, etc. Paris, 1738-1855.
21 vols. fol.

Brunetti: Codice Diplomatico Toscano. Firenze, 1806.

Canciani, Paolo: Barbarorum Leges Antiquae, etc. Venetiis, 1781-1792. (Formulae Baluzii, Marcolfi
& Mabillon.)

Chronica Farfensis. v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom. II., Pars II.

Eichhorn: Deutsche Staats- und Rechtsgeschichte. Gött., 1803-23.

Fumagalli, Angelo: Codice Diplomatico S. Ambrosiano. Milano, 1805.

Hegel, Carl: Geschichte der Städteverfassung von Italien. Leipzig, 1847.

Leo, Heinrich: Verfassung der lombardischen Städte. 1820.

Liutprandus Ticinensis: Opera, v. Pertz, Monum.; Script., Tom. III.

Lex Salica. v. Canciani: Barbar. Leg. Antiq., Tom. V.

Lupo, Mario: Codex Diplomaticus civitatis et ecclesiae Bergomatis, etc. Bergomi, 1784-1799.
Vols. 2.

Mabillon: De Re Diplomatica. Parisiis, 1709. (General Collection.)--Annales Ordinis S. Benedicti.
Parisiis, 1703-39.

Macchiavelli, Nicolo: Istorie Florentine, v. Delle Opere, Tom. II., ed. Milano, 1804.

Migne: Patrologiae Cursus Completus, etc. Series Latina.

Muratori: Scriptores Rerum Italicarum. Mediolani, 1723.--Dissertazioni sopra le Antichità Italiane,
etc. Roma, 1755.

Otto (Freising): Chron.

Pertz: Monumenta Germaniae Historica, etc. (Diplom.; Leges; Script.)

Paulus Diaconus: De Gestis Langobard. v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom.

Tacitus: Germania.

Tiraboschi, Girol: Storia della Badia di S. Silvestro di Nonantula, etc. Modena, 1784-1785.

Tomasini, Ludov.: Dei Benefizii.

Tommasio: Historia sanese.

Troya: Delia Condizione dei Romani, etc.

Ughelli: Italia Sacra. 10 vols. fol. Venetiis, 1717-1722.

Collections of documents in the Archivii of many cities of Northern Italy.

N.B.--The above list is restricted to those works to which direct reference is made in the
text and foot-notes.

FOOTNOTES:

[1:] Paulus Diaconus: De Gest. Lang., Lib. II., c. 32. v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., T.
I., p. 436. The Gothic system was to take one-third of the land itself from the conquered people;
the Lombards on the other hand took one-third of the produce, "frugum."

[2:] With the growth of society and the increase of population, the milites gain added power,
and become the "catanei," the barons of the period, or as some are pleased to call them, the
"rural counts."

[3:] Tacitus: Germania, cap. xvi.

[4:] The Sagas say the Lombards came originally from Scandinavia. Their name is commonly derived
from "Long-beard," but more probably came from words signifying "a long stretch of land." Their
first appearance in history is during the first century of the Christian era, in the region
of Magdeburg. All trace of them is then lost till they reappear in the fifth century on the
banks of the Oder; they then go south to the river Theiss. They are in a constant state of
war with the Gepidae, a tribe nearly as fierce as themselves, which strife is supposed to have
been fomented by the eastern emperors. In the year 567 the Lombards, under their king Alboin,
together with the Avars, begin to move into Pannonia from Dacia and the region of the Don.
Kunnemund, the king of the Gepidae, is killed, and his conquered people merged in the race
of their conquerors. In the next year, still victorious, they overrun Northern Italy.

[5:] Some of these cities were enabled to hold out for a considerable period. Pavia was not
taken till 572.

[6:] To these seaports some of the functionaries of the inland towns, especially among the
clergy, were able to effect their escape. For instance, the Archbishop of Milan fled to Genoa,
and the Archbishop of Aquileja to Venice.

[7:] The Christianity of the Lombards of the invasion was of the Arian form. Autari, who reigned
from 584 to 591, married Theodolinda of Bavaria, and she first introduced orthodox Christianity.
At the death of Autari she married Agiluf (591-615) duke of Turin, who was an Arian, but who
pursued a mediative policy. During his reign a double ecclesiastical system, with orthodox
and Arian bishops side by side, was maintained.

[8:] Justinian gave him the right to exercise, in reference to each city, the functions of
the governor of the province, during the latter's absence; and granted him jurisdiction in
all cases not involving a larger sum than 300 aurei. He had a certain amount of authority in
criminal matters, and two apparitors were attached to his person. The defensores had two guarantees
for their power and their independence. 1. They had the right of passing over the various degrees
in the public administration, and of carrying their complaints at once before the praetorian
prefect; this freed them from the jurisdiction of the provincial authorities. 2. They were
elected by the general body of the inhabitants of the municipium.

[9:] Paulus Diaconus: Lib. V., 7, 17, 18.

[10:] His words are: "Erano stati i Longobardi dugento ventidue anni in Italia, e di già non
ritenevano di forastieri altro che il nome."--Nicolò Macchiavelli: Istorie Fiorentine, Lib.
I. vid. Opere, Vol. III., p. 219 (ed. Milano, 1804).

[11:] It is difficult to draw any picture of the different ranks of society at this period,
which would at once be perfectly accurate, and yet definite enough to give entire satisfaction
to the student.

[12:] Geschichte des römischen Rechts im Mittelalter, passim.

[13:] Brunetti: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. Firenze, 1806, Docum. No. 44.

[14:] Idem. Docum. No. 8.

[15:] Brunetti: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. Docum. Nos. 6-10.

[16:] Idem. Docum. No. 43.

[17:] Liutprandi: Leg. Long. Prolog. Anni XVI. et XV. et al. Vid. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital.,
Tom. I., P. II., p. 15, et seq.

[18:] Liutprandi: Leg. Prolog. Anni XIII.

[19:] Crimoaldi: Leg. Prolog. Vid. Muratori op. cit. Tom. I., P. II., p. 49.

[20:] Liutprandi: Leg. Prolog. ad Lib. III. Vid. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom. I., Pars
II., p. 15.

[21:] Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., T. II., Pars II.

[22:] Savigny: Gesch. des röm.

[24:] Paulus Diaconus: De Gest. Langobard., Lib. III., cap. 16.

[25:] Brunetti: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. Docum. No. 6, anni 715.

[26:] Ibid.: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. Docum. No. 8, anni 715.

[27:] Ibid.: Docum. No. 11, anni 716.

[28:] Ibid.: Docum. No. 50, anni 756.

[29:] Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom. I., Pars II., p. 192E.

[30:] Muratori: Antiq. Ital. Diss. II., p. 186.

[32:] In a donation to "Aimo Voltarius, abitator castrii Viterbii." Vid, Troya: Della Condizione,
etc., p. 361. Docum. No. 6, anni 775.

[33:] Ughelli: Italia Sacra, Tom. III., p. 28.

[34:] Ibid.: Tom. II., p. 145.

[35:] The word palatium in the signification of fiscus is perhaps more frequently used by the
Frankish kings than by the Lombard. See a privilegium granted to the nuns of the Posterla di
Pavia by Lothar I. in the year 839, in which it appears that any one infringing its privileges
must pay seventy pounds of the best gold, to be applied "medietatem Palatio nostro, et medietatem
parti ejusdem monasterii." Vid. Muratori: Antiq. Ital. Diss. XVI., Tom I., P. I., p. 233. Also
several diplomas of Charles the Fat, and others make use of the same term. The word camera
for fiscus as the imperial treasury, was probably not used before the time of Lewis II.; the
first authentic use of it in that sense being probably a diploma of that monarch of the year
894, where he says that one hundred pounds of gold are to be paid "medietatem Imperiali Camere
et medietatem suprataxatae Angilberge." Vid. Muratori: loc. cit. p. 234.

[36:] From Otto of Freising, De Gest. Freder., Lib I., cap. 31, we know that the same distribution
took place in Hungary, which was divided into seventy comitates; "et de omni justitia ad Fiscum
Regium duas lucri partes cedere, tertiam tantum Comiti remanere."

[37:] Charlemagne: Leg. Lomb. Nos. 127 and 128.

[38:] Lex No. 128.

[39:] Muratori: Diss. Ant. Ital. Dissert. VIII., Tom. I., P. I., p. 96.

[41:] In illustration of this fact I will cite the names of some of the various taxes, dues
and privileges, mention of which is found in the old documents. The feudal character of these
will be apparent to the reader. Following the rough division indicated in the text, we have:

I. Under heading "Fines and Forfeitures":

  1. Forfaturae:
        Forisfacturae,
        Multae (Mulcte),
        Freda,
     e.g. Leudis (Leudum) for homicide.
     Penalties and compositions for crime.

  2. Scadentiae:
        Excadentia,
        Bona caduca.
     Publicum falls heir to various classes of individuals. Cf. Leg.
        Rhotari, No. 158 et al.

  3. Lagan (Laganum).
     Seizure of shipwrecked goods by the state. Examples more
       common after year 1000 A. D.

II. Under the head of "Taxes and Privileges":

  1. Onera Publica, or Angariae (Perangariae), Factiones publicae.
     a. Heribannum: Penalty for avoidance of military service.
          Cf. Charlemagne, Leges, No. 23 et al.
     b. Heribergum: Hospitality to Missi of emperor or king. Cf.
          Charlemagne, Leges, No. 128 et al.
     c. Mansionaticum (Mansiones, Evectio): Lodging for king and
          his ministers.
     Conjectum was a pro rata tax on a district so as to meet the
       expense. Cf. Lud. Pius, Leg. Nos. 54, 24, et al. loc.
     Tractoria gave specification of what should be provided in each
     case. For Formula, v. Marcolfo, Lib. I.
     d. Veredi (Paraveredi): Horses and beasts of burden for king
       and ministers. Cf. in Capitular. Reg. Franc. saepe. Capit.
       Lud. II., Ad Missos, etc.
     Census vehicularius, fiscalis or publicus was post to carry, free
       of expense, king's letters, etc.
     e. Foderum (Fodrum): Support of a king and his army in
       passing through a district. Cf. many privileges and exemptions
       to different churches and monasteries. Articles of the Peace of
       Constance. Some privileges to private persons.

  2. Teloneum.
    a. Pedagium: General word for tolls on streets, roads,
bridges, etc.
      [Greek: alpha]. Pontaticum, for bridges.
      [Greek: beta]. Portaticum, for gates.
      [Greek: gamma]. Platiaticum, for license to sell in market.
      [Greek: delta]. Casaticum, for houses.
      Cf. Otho II., Diploma to Monast. Volturno a. 983, et al. loc.
    b. Ripaticum: General word for tolls and taxes for transport by
     water. Cf. Diploma of Berenger II. v. Ughelli, Italia Sacra,
   Tom. V. Also a Privilegium of Charlemagne, anno 787. v.
Ughelli, Italia Sacra, Tom. V., a. 787. This privilegium
confirms the laws of Liutprand, and shows how much the
inhabitants of Como had to pay in various places in moving salt
down the rivers of Lombardy.
      [Greek: alpha]. Paliscitura,
      [Greek: beta]. Trasitura,
      [Greek: gamma]. Navium ligatura.
      Wharfage dues.
      [Greek: delta]. Portonaticum, harbor dues.
      [Greek: epsilon]. Curatura, probably a tax on certain
merchandise.
      [Greek: zeta]. Passagio, probably same as preceding, but
possibly a tax in favor of those going to the Holy Land.

  8. Auxilia (Occasiones) (dues from vassals):
    a. Praestitiones.
    b. Dona.
    c. Gratuita.
    d. Mutua.
    More common after the year 1000 A.D.; but, for an example in the
    year 878, see a Diploma of Lewis II., published by Puricelli
  in his Monumenti della Basilica Arnbrosiana.

III. Under head of "lands owned by Crown or Publicum":

  1. Terra Censualis. Holder of t.c. owed these duties:
    a. Glaudaticum,
    b. Escaticum,
    c. Herbaticum,
    d. Datio,
    e. Alpaticum,
    f. Agrarium.
    Payments for right to pasture cattle and swine on public lands.
      Cf. Chron. da Volturno, a. 972. Chron. Farfensis. Privileg. Lud.
      Pii, et al. loc.
    g. Terraticum, amount of produce given for right to cultivate.
    h. Pascuarium, payment for sheep pastured on the public land.
    i. Boazia, tax levied on every pair of oxen; probably not
      developed before XII. century.

The taxes and so forth mentioned in this list are by no means all that were levied, but are
a fair representation of them. After the year 1000 their feudal character is even more strongly
marked.

[42:] This statement, while true of all integral parts of the Lombard kingdom, must, however,
be modified in regard to the great duchies of Spoleto and Beneventum, which were under a different
system of internal government from the kingdom of Lombardy proper--were, in fact, small tributary
kingdoms under great dukes enjoying practically royal powers. The Duchy of Beneventum seems
to have been divided into gastaldata, divisions of territory similar to the civitates of Lombardy,
but presided over by a gastald instead of by a dux or comes. In the charter of division made
between the dukes of Beneventum and of Salerno in the year 851--v. Muratori, Ant. Ital. Diss.
X.--are mentioned "integra gastaldata, seu ministeria Tarentum, Latinianum, Cusentia, etc."
And, at an earlier date, Paulus Diaconus--De Gest. Long., Lib. V., cap. 29--tells of a certain
"Alzeconis Dux de Bulgaris," to whom Grimoald, Duke of Beneventum, gives "ad habitandum ...
Lepianum, Bovianum et Inferniam, et aliis cum suis territoriis civitates; ipsumque Alzeconem
mutato dignitatis nomine, de duce gastaldium vocari praecepit."

[43:] v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom. III., Pars II., p. 162D.

[44:] Liutprandi: Leg. Lib. VI., Leg.

[45:] Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. X., Vol. I., P. I., p. 121.

[46:] Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital., Tom. III., p. 155A.

[47:] Ed. Rhotari: Leg. 23 and 24. v. Muratori: op. cit., Tom. I., Pars II.

[48:] Liutprandi: Leg. Lib. IV., 7.

[49:] Liutprandi, Leg. Lib. IV., 8, says: "Si homines de sub uno Judice, de duobus tamen Sculdahis
causam habuerint, etc."

[50:] Paulus Diaconus: De Gest. Lang., Lib. VI., 24.

[51:] Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. X., Vol. I., Parte II., p. 116.

[52:] Ughelli: Italia Sacra, Tom. V.

[53:] Caroli Magni, Leg. Lomb. 36: "Ut nullus homo in Placito Centenarii neque ad mortem, neque
ad libertatem suam amittendam, aut res reddendas vel mancipia judicetur. Sed ea omnium in praesentia
Comitum, vel Missorum nostrorum, judicentur."

[54:] Liutprandi: Leg. Lib. V., 15.

[55:] Chronicon Fontanellense, Cap. I. v. Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. X., Vol. I., Parte I., p. 117.

[56:] Rachis, a decree of--existing in the Monast. of Bobbio. v. Muratori: Aut. tal. Diss.,
Vol. I., Part I., p. 118 (Diss. X.).

[57:] Liutprandi Ticinensis: Historia, Lib. I., cap. 10. v. Muratori: Script. Rer. Ital. II.,
p. 431. Pertz, Monum.; Script., Tom. III.

[58:] The opposite sides of the question are ably presented by Savigny: Geschichte des Röm.
Rechts, etc., Vol. I., p. 230 et seq. (trans.), and Hegel; Städteverfassung v. Italien, etc.,
I., page 470, note.

[59:] It is difficult to find an English word which intelligently renders the various names
for these freemen in their judicial capacity, used by the different nations, such as arimanni,
rachinburgi, boni homines, etc. Most English writers make use of the German word schöppen.
I have taken the rendering "judicators" from Edward Cathcart, the translator of the first volume
of Savigny's Geschichte des Römischen Rechts im Mittelalter.

[60:] Liutprandi: Leg. 25, Lib. IV., 7.

[61:] Rachis: Leg. No. 11.

[62:] Savigny: Geschichte, etc., Vol. I., p. 233, trans.

[63:] Preserved in the Archives of Farfa. Published by: Mabillon: Annales Ord. S. Benedicti,
Tom. II., p. 154.

[64:] We have confirmation of this from a document of the early part of the ninth century,
which says: "De Vicariis et Centenariis qui magis propter cupiditatem quam propter justitiam
faciendam saepissime placita tenent, et exinde populum minus affligunt, ita teneatur ... ut
videlicet in anno tria solummodo generalia placita observent et nullos eos amplius placita
observare compellat." From Worms Capitulary of Lewis the Debonnair, a. 829, c. 5. Also compare:
Capit. V., anni 819, Art. 14. Capit., Lib. IV., c. 57. (Baluzii, 616 infr., 788 supr.) Caroli
Magni, Leg. Long. 69. (Canciani I., 157.)

[65:] Brunetti: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. Doc. No. 18.

[66:] Bouquet: Rerum Ghillicarum et Francicarum Scriptores.

[67:] Baluzii: Capit. Reg. Franc. a. 789, Tom. V., p. 746.

[68:] Capit. I., Art. 13, anni 813. v. Baluzii: Capit. Reg. Franc., Tom. I., p. 509.

[69:] Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. X., Vol. I., Pars I., p. 115.

[70:] Caroli Magni: Leg. Long. No. 92.

[71:] Sismondi: Rep. Ital. du Moyen Age, Vol. I., p. 268.

[72:] Capit. II., anni 819, Art. 2. v. Baluzii: Capit. Reg. Franc., Tom. I., p. 605.

[73:] Loc. cit. sup.

[74:] Caroli Magni: Leg. Long. No. 116.

[75:] Caroli Magni: Cap. Minora, anni 803, c. 20.

[76:] "Adjutores Comitum, qui meliores, et veraciores inveniri possunt." Lothar I.: Leg. No.
49. v. Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. X., Vol. I., Parte I., p. 112.

[77:] Caroli Magni: Capit. I., anni 809, Art. 22. v. Baluzii: Capit. Reg. Franc. I., 466 infr.

[78:] Lothar I.: Capit. anni 873, Art. 9. v. Baluzii: Capit. Reg. Franc. Tom. II., p. 232.
Leg. No. 48. v. Muratori: Diss. X., Vol. I., P. I., p. 112.

[79:] Muratori: Ant. Ital. Diss. LXXVII., Tom. III., Parte II., p. 189.

[80:] Vid. Tommasio: Historia sanese, Lib. IV.; Ughelli: Italia Sacra, Tom. III., for this
privilege.

[81:] Brunetti: Cod. Diplom. Toscan. No. 8, a. 715. A priest named Gunthram says: "Nec cumquam
ab episcopum Senensem coridicionem habuimus, nisi, si de seculares causas nobis oppressio fiebat,
veniebamus ad judicem Senensem, eo quod in ejus territorio sedebamus."

