"Bully old boy!" he exclaimed. "Edmund, where'd we have been without Juba?"

"I ought to have foreseen that," said Edmund. "If I had been as wise as I sometimes think myself,
I'd have arranged the thing differently. Of course it should have been obvious all the while
that Juba would be our trump card. I dimly saw that, but I ought to have instructed him in
advance. As it was, his own intelligence did the business. He understood my claim to an origin
outside this planet, when they could not. It must have come over him all at a flash."

"But do you think that they understand it now?" I asked.

"To a certain extent, yes. But it is an utterly new idea to them, and all the better for us
that it is so. It is so much the more mysterious; so much the more effective with the imagination.
But this is not the end of it; they will want to know more--especially Ala--and now that Juba
has broken the ice, it will be comparatively easy to fortify the new opinion which they have
conceived of us."

"But Ingra nearly wrecked it all," I remarked.

"Yes, that was a stunning surprise. How devilish cunning the fellow is; and how inexplicable
his antipathy to us."

"I believe that it is a kind of jealousy," I said.

"A kind of natural cussedness, I guess," put in Jack.

"Why should he be jealous?" asked Edmund.

"I don't know, exactly; but you know we are not simple barbarians in their eyes, and Ingra
may have conceived a prejudice against us, somehow, on that very account."

"Very unlikely," Edmund returned, "but we shall find out all about it in time; in the meanwhile,
do nothing to prejudice him further, for he is a power that we have got to reckon with."

The conversation then turned upon the mysterious language that had been employed at what we
called the trial. I expressed the admiration which I had felt for such a means of communication
when I had observed the effect that Juba had been able to produce.

"Yes," said Edmund, "it seems as wonderful as it is beautiful, but there is no reason why it
should not have been acquired by the inhabitants of the earth. We have the elements, not merely
in what we call telepathy, or mind reading, but in our everyday converse. Try it yourself,
and you will be astonished at what the eyes, the looks, are able to convey. Even abstract ideas
are not beyond their reach. Often we abandon speech for this better method of conveying our
meaning. How many a turn in the history of mankind has depended upon the unspoken diplomacy
of the eyes; how many a crisis in our personal lives is determined, not by words, but by looks."

"That's right," said Jack, "more matches are made with eyes than with lips."

Edmund smiled and continued: "There's nothing really mysterious about it. It has a purely physical
basis, and only needs attention and development to become the most perfect mode of mental communication
that intellectual beings could possibly possess."

"And the music and language of color?" I asked. "How has that been developed?"

"As naturally as the silent speech. We have it, and we feel it, in pictures, in flower gardens,
and in landscapes; only with us it is a frozen music. Living music exists on the earth only
in the form of sonorous vibrations because we have not developed our sense of the harmony of
colors except when they lie dead and motionless before us. A great painting by Raphael or Turner
is to one of these color hymns of Venus like a printed score, which merely suggests its harmonies,
compared with the same composition when poured forth from a perfect instrument under the fingers
of a master player."

"Well, Edmund," interposed Jack, "I've no doubt it's all as you say, and I'd like to know just
enough of their speechless speech to tell Ingra what he ought to hear; and if I understood
their music, I'd play him a dead march, sure."

"But," continued Edmund, disregarding Jack's interruption, "mark me, there's something else
behind all this. I have a dim foreglimpse of it, and if we have luck, we'll know more before long."

I find that the enthusiasm which these wonderful memories arouse, as they flood back into my
mind, is leading me to dwell upon too many details, and I must sum up in fewer words the story
of the events which immediately followed our acquittal, although it involves some of the most
astonishing discoveries that we made in the world of Venus.

As Edmund had surmised, Ala lost no time in seeking more light upon the mystery surrounding
us. Within twenty-four hours after the dramatic scene in the hall of judgment, we were summoned
before her, in a splendid apartment, which was apparently an audience chamber, where we found
her surrounded by several of her female attendants, as well as by what seemed to be high officers
of the court; and among them, to our displeasure, was Ingra. He, in fact, appeared to be the
most respected and important personage there, next to the queen herself, and he kept close
by her side. Edmund glanced at him, and half turning to us, shook his head. I took his meaning
to be that we were not to manifest any annoyance over Ingra's presence.

The queen was very gracious, and seats were offered to us. Immediately she began to question
Edmund, as I could see; but with all my efforts I could make out nothing of what was "said."
But Juba evidently was able to follow much of the conversation, in which he manifested the
liveliest interest. The conference lasted about an hour, and at its conclusion, we retired
to our apartments. There we eagerly questioned Edmund concerning what had occurred.

He seemed to be greatly impressed and pleased. He told us that he had learned more than he
had communicated, but that he had succeeded, as he believed, in making clearer to Ala our celestial
origin. Still, he doubted if she fully comprehended it, while as for Ingra, he was sure that
the fellow rejected our claim entirely, and persisted in regarding us as inhabitants of the
dark hemisphere.

"Bosh!" cried Jack. "He's too stupid to understand anything above the level of his nose, and
I'd like to flatten that for him!"

"No," said Edmund, "he's not stupid, but I'm afraid he's malicious. If he were a little more
stupid, it would be the better for us."

"But does Ala comprehend the difference between us and Juba--I mean in regard to origin?" I asked.

"I think so. In fact Juba bears unmistakable signs that he is of their world, although so different
in physical appearance. His remarkable comprehension of their method of mental communication
is alone sufficient to stamp him as ancestrally one of them. And yet," Edmund continued, musing,
"think of the vast stretch of ages that separates the inhabitants of the two sides of this
planet, the countless eons of evolution that have brought about the differences now existing!
I am delighted to find that Ala has some understanding of all this. She has had good teachers--do
not smile--for what you have seen of their mechanical achievements proves that science exists
and is cultivated here; and from her savants she has learned--what our astronomers have deduced--that
formerly Venus turned rapidly on her axis, and had days and nights swiftly succeeding one another.
But they do not know the scientific reasons as completely as we do. With them this is knowledge
based largely upon tradition, 'ancestral voices' echoing down through periods of time so vast
that our most ancient legends seem but tales of yesterday. Whatever may be the measure of man's
antiquity on the earth, I am certain that here intellectual life has existed for millions upon
millions of years, and its history stretches back beyond the time when the brake of tidal friction
had so far destroyed the rotation of the planet that its surface became permanently divided
between the reigns of day and night."

I listened with amazement and could not help exclaiming:

"But, Edmund, how could you learn all this in so short a time?"

"Because," he replied, smiling, "the language of the mind, unhampered by dragging words and
blundering sentences, plays back and forth with the quickness of thought. There is another
thing, too, which I have learned, a thing so amazing that it daunts me. I have found, I believe,
the explanation of that minor note of infinite sadness which, as I told you, I always feel,
even in the most joyous-seeming paeans of their color music. I think it is due to their forereaching
science, which assures them that this world has entered upon the last stage of its existence
which began with the arrest of its axial rotation, and which will end with the total extinction
of life through the evaporation of all the waters under the never-setting sun, and the consequent
complete desiccation of this now so beautiful land."

"But," I objected, "you have said that they never see the sun."

"That was, I believe, a mistake, I am sure that they never see the stars or the planets, but
I think that sometimes they see the sun, or, at least that there is a tradition of its having
been seen. The whole thing is yet obscure to me, but I have received an inkling of something
very, very strange in that regard."

"Then, Ala may think that it is from the sun that we claim to come," I said, disregarding his
last remark, which had a significance which even he could not then have appreciated.

"I am not sure; we must wait for further light. But I have still another communication not
so instinct with mystery. We are to be shown the sources of their mechanical power--the means
by which they run all their motors."

"Hurrah," cried Jack. "Now, that's something I like! I can understand a machine--if you don't
ask me to run it--but as for this talking through the eyes, and playing Jim Crow with rainbows,
it's too much for me."

It was not many hours later when we were conducted by Ala, accompanied as usual by the inevitable
Ingra, and a brilliant cortege of attendants, upon our first excursion through the capital.
We embarked in a gorgeous air ship, and flying low at first, skirted the roofs of the innumerable
houses which constituted the bulk of the city resting on the ground. The oriental magnificence
of the views which we caught in the winding streets and frequent squares crowded with people,
excited our interest to the utmost. But we kept on without descending or stopping until, at
length, we passed the limits of the immense metropolis, and, flying more rapidly, and at a
greater elevation, soon approached what, at a distance, appeared to be a waterfall, greater
than Niagara, pouring out of the air!

"What marvel can this be?" I asked.

"A fountain," responded Edmund.

"A cataract turned upside down," exclaimed Jack. "Well, I've ceased to be surprised at anything
I see here. I wouldn't be astonished now to find that their whole old planet was hollow, and
full of gnomes, or whatever you call 'em."

When we got nearer we saw that Edmund's description was substantially correct. The vast mass
of water gushed from the top of a broad plateau, in the form of a gigantic vertical fountain,
with a roar so stupendous that Ala and her attendants immediately covered their ears with protectors,
and we should not have been sorry to follow their example, for our eardrums were almost burst
by the billowing force of the sound waves. The water shot upward four or five hundred feet
with geyser-like plumes reaching a thousand feet, and then descended in floods on all sides.
But the slope of the ground was such that eventually it was all collected in a river, which
flowed away with great swiftness, past the distant city, and disappeared in the direction of
the sea from which we had come. The solid column of rising water must have been, at its base,
three hundred feet in diameter!

But our amazement was redoubled when we recognized, at various points of vantage, squat, metallic
towers of enormous strength, which caught the descending water, allowing it to issue in roaring
torrents from their bases.

"Those," shouted Edmund in our ears, "are power houses. I knew already that these people had
learned the mechanical uses of electricity; and if we have seen no electric lights as yet,
it is because, in a world of perpetual daylight, they have little or no use for them. They
employ the power for other purposes."

"But how do you account for this incredible fountain?" I asked.

"It must be due to geological causes, if I may use a terrestrial term. You observe that the
land all has a slope hitherward from the distant range of mountains, and that between us and
the sea there is a chain of hills. The metropolis lies at the lower edge of a vast basin, and
it must be that the relatively porous surface, over many thousands of square miles, is underlain
by an almost unbroken shell of rock, impermeable to water. The result is that the drainage
of this whole immense region, after being collected under ground, flows together to this point,
where the existence of a huge vent in the upper layer offers it a way of escape, and it comes
spouting out of the great crater with the consequences which you behold."

Many objections to Edmund's theory occurred to my mind; but he spoke so confidently, the course
of things on this strange planet had so often followed his indications, and I felt myself so
incapable of suggesting a more satisfactory hypothesis, that I made no reply, as a geologist,
perhaps, would have done. At any rate the wonderful phenomenon existed before our eyes, explanation
or no explanation. We learned afterwards that the river formed by the giant fountain passed
through a gap in the hills to the seaward, and the more I reflected upon Edmund's idea the
more acceptable I found it.

A great deal of the water was led away from the foot of the plateau out of which the fountain
issued by ditches constructed to irrigate the rich gardens surrounding the metropolis and the
open agricultural country for many miles around. At the queen's invitation, although she did
not accompany us, we inspected one of the power houses, and Edmund found the greatest delight
in studying the details of the enormous dynamos and the system of cables by which, quite in
our own manner, the electric power was conveyed to the city. We noticed that everywhere the
most ingenious devices were employed for killing noise.

"I knew we should find all this," said Edmund--"although I did not precisely anticipate the
form that the natural supply of energy would take--as soon as I saw the aerial screws that
give buoyancy to the great towers. In fact, I foresaw it as soon as I found, in inspecting
the machinery of the air ship which brought us from the sea, that their motors were driven
by storage batteries. It was obvious, then, that they had some extraordinary source of energy."

"Oh, of course, you knew it all!" muttered Henry under his breath. "But if you were as omniscient
as you think yourself, you'd not be in this fool's paradise."

"What's that you're saying?" demanded Jack, partly catching the import of Henry's remark, and
beginning to ruffle his feathers.

"Oh, nothing," mumbled Henry, and I shook my head at Jack to keep quiet. We all felt at times
Edmund's assumption of superiority, but Jack and I were willing to put up with it as one of
the privileges of genius. If Edmund had not believed in himself, he would never have brought
us through. And besides, we always found that he was right, and if he sometimes spoke rather
boastingly of his knowledge and foresight, at least it was real knowledge and genuine foresight.

CHAPTER XIII

WE FALL INTO TROUBLE AGAIN

It was not long after our visit to the marvelous fountain when Jack proposed to me that he
and I should make a little excursion on our own account in the city. Edmund was absent at the
moment, engaged in some inquiries which interested him, under the guidance of Ala and her customary
attendants. I forget why Jack and I had stayed behind, since both Juba and Henry had accompanied
Edmund, but it was probably because we wished to make some necessary repairs to our garments
for I confess that I shared a little of the coquettishness of Jack in that matter. At any rate,
we grew weary of being alone, and decided to venture just a little way in search of adventure.
We calculated that the tower of the palace, which was so conspicuous, would serve us as a landmark,
and that there was no danger of getting lost.

Nobody interfered with us at our departure, as we had feared they might, and in a short time
we had become so absorbed in the strange spectacles of the narrow streets, lined with shops
and filled with people on foot, while small air ships continually passed just above the roofs,
that we forgot the necessity of keeping our landmark constantly in view, and were lost without
knowing it.

One thing which immediately struck us was the entire absence of beasts of burden--nothing like
horses or mules did we see. There were not even dogs, although, as I have told you, some canine-like
animals dwelt with the people of the caverns. Everybody went either on foot or in air ships.
There were no carriages, except a kind of palanquin, some running on wheels and others borne
by hand.

"I should think they would have autos," said Jack, "with all their science and ingenuity which
Edmund admires so much."

But there was not a sign of anything resembling an auto; the silence of the crowded streets
was startling, and made the scene more dreamlike. Everybody appeared to be shod with some noise-absorbing
material. We strolled along, turning corners with blissful carelessness, staring and being
stared at (for, of course, everybody knew who we were), peering into open doors and the gaping
fronts of bazaars, chattering like a couple of boys making their first visit to a city, and
becoming every moment more hopelessly, though unconsciously, lost, and more interested by what
we saw. The astonishing display of pleasing colors and the brilliancy of everything fascinated
us. I had never seen anything comparable to this in beauty, variety, and richness. We passed
a market where we saw some of the bright-plumaged birds that we had eaten at our first repast
hung up for sale. They had a way of serving these birds at table with the brilliant feathers
of the head and neck still attached, as if they found a gratification even at their meals in
seeing beautiful colors before them.

Other shops were filled with birds in gilded cages, which we should have taken for songsters
but for the fact that, although crowds gathered about and regarded them with mute admiration,
not a sound issued from their throats--at least we heard none. A palanquin stopped at one of
these shops, and a lady alighted and bought three beautiful birds which she carried away in
their cages, watching them with every indication of the utmost pleasure, which we ascribed
to the splendor of their plumage and the gracefulness of their forms. As a crowd watched the
transaction without interference on the part of the shopkeeper, or evidence of annoyance on
that of the lady, we took the liberty of a close look ourselves. Then we saw their money.

"Good, yellow gold," whispered Jack.

Such, indeed, it seemed to be. The lady took the money, which consisted of slender rings, chased
with strange characters, from a golden purse, and the whole transaction seemed so familiar
that we might well have believed ourselves to be witnessing a purchase in a bazaar of Cairo
or Damascus. This scene led to a desire on Jack's part to buy something himself.

"If I only had some of their money," he said, "I'd like to get some curiosities to carry home.
I wonder if they'd accept these?" and he drew from his pocket some gold and silver coins.

"No doubt they'd be glad to have a few as keepsakes," I said.

"By Jo! I think I'll try it," said Jack, "but not here. I'm not a bird fancier myself. Let's
look a little farther."

We wandered on, getting more and more interested, and followed by a throng of curious natives,
who treated us, I must say, much more respectfully than we should have been treated in similar
circumstances at home. Many of the things we saw, I cannot describe, because there is nothing
to liken them to, but all were as beautiful as they were strange. At last we found a shop whose
contents struck Jack's fancy. The place differed from any that we had yet seen; it was much
larger, and more richly fitted up than the others, and there were no counters, the things that
it contained being displayed on the inner walls, while a single keeper, of a grave aspect,
and peculiarly attired, all in black, occupied a seat at the back. The objects on view were
apparently ornaments to be hung up, as we hang plaques on the wall. They were of both gold
and silver, and in some the two metals were intermixed, with pleasing effects. What seemed
singular was the fact that the motif of the ornaments was always the same, although greatly
varied in details of execution. As near as I could make it out, the intention appeared to be
to represent a sunburst. There was invariably a brilliant polished boss in the center, sometimes
set with a jewel, and surrounding rays of crinkled form, which plunged into a kind of halo
that encircled the entire work. The idea was commonplace, and it did not occur to me amidst
my admiration of the extreme beauty of the workmanship that there was any cause for surprise
in the finding of a sunburst represented here. Jack was enthusiastic.

"That's the ticket for me," he said. "How would one of those things look hanging over the fireplace
of old Olympus? You bet I'm going to persuade the old chap to exchange one for a handful of
good solid American money."

I happened to glance behind us while Jack was scooping his pocket, and was surprised to see
that the crowd of idlers, which had been following us, had dispersed. Looking out of the doorway,
I saw some of them furtively regarding us from a respectful distance. I twitched Jack by the
sleeve:

"See here," I said, "there's some mistake about this. I don't believe that this is a shop.
You'd better be careful, or we may make a bad break."

"Oh, pshaw!" he replied; "it's a shop all right, or if it isn't exactly a shop that old duffer
will be glad to get a little good money for one of his gimcracks."

My suspicion that all was not right was not allayed when I noticed that the old man, whose
complexion differed from the prevailing tone here, and who was specially remarkable by the
possession of an eagle-beaked nose, a peculiarity that I had not before observed among these
people, began to frown as Jack brusquely approached him. But I could not interfere before Jack
had thrown a handful of coin in his lap, and, reaching up, had put his hand upon one of the
curious sunbursts, saying:

"I guess this will suit; what do you say, Peter?"

Instantly the old fellow sprang to his feet, sending the coins rolling over the polished floor,
and with eyes ablaze with anger, seized Jack by the throat. I sprang to his aid, but in a second
four stout fellows, darting out of invisible corners, grappled us, and before we could make
any effective resistance, they had our arms firmly bound behind our backs! Jack exerted all
his exceptional strength to break loose, but in vain.

"I tried to stop you, Jack--" I began, in a tone of annoyance, but immediately he cut me off:

"This is on me, Peter; don't you worry. You haven't done anything."

"I'm afraid it's on all of us," I replied. "The whole party, Edmund and all, may have to suffer
for our heedlessness."

"Fiddlesticks," he returned. "I haven't got his old ornament, but he's got my coin. This looks
like a skin game to me. What in thunder did he hang the things up for if he didn't want to
sell 'em?"

"But I told you this wasn't a shop."

"No, I see it isn't; it's a trap for suckers, I guess."

Jack's indignation grew hotter as we were dragged out into the street, and followed by a crush
of people drawn to the scene, were hurried along, we knew not whither. In fact, his indignation
swallowed up the alarm which he ought to have experienced, and which I felt in full force.
I beat my brains in vain to find some explanation for the merciless severity with which we
were treated so out of all proportion to the venial fault that had unconsciously been committed,
and my perplexity grew when I saw in the faces of the crowd surrounding us, and running to
keep up, a look of horror, as if we had been guilty of an unspeakable crime. We were too much
hurried and jolted by our captors to address one another, and in a short time we were widely
separated, Jack being led, or rather dragged, ahead, as if to prevent any communication between
us. Once in a while, to my regret, I observed him exerting all his force to break his bonds
and slinging his custodians about; but he could not get away, and at last, to my infinite comfort,
he ceased to struggle, and went along as quietly as the rapid pace would permit.

Presently an air ship swooped down from above, and alighted in a little square which we had
just entered. Immediately we were taken aboard, with small regard to our comfort, and the air
ship rose rapidly, and bore off in the direction of the great tower of the palace which we
could now see. Upon our arrival we were taken through the inevitable labyrinth of corridors,
and finally found ourselves in a place that was entirely new to us.

It was a round chamber, perhaps two hundred feet in diameter, lighted, like the Roman Pantheon,
by a huge circular opening in the vaulted roof, through which I caught a glimpse of the pearl-tinted
cloud dome, which seemed infinitely remote. No opposition was made when I pushed ahead in order
to be at Jack's side, and as a throng quickly hedged us round, our conductors released their
hold, although our arms remained bound. When at last we stood fast we were in front of a rich
dais, containing a thronelike seat occupied by a personage attired in black, the first glimpse
of whose face gave me such a shock as I had not experienced since the priest of the earth-worshipers
seized me for his prey. I have never seen anything remotely resembling that face. It was without
beard, and of a ghastly paleness. It was seen only in profile, except when, with a lightning-like
movement, it turned, for the fraction of a second, toward us, and was instantly averted again.
It made my nerves creep to look at it. The nose was immense, resembling a huge curved beak,
and the eyes, as black and glittering as jet, were roofed with shaggy brows, and seemed capable
of seeing crosswise.

Sometimes one side of the face and sometimes the other was presented, the transition being
effected by two instantaneous jerks, with a slight pause between, during which the terrible
eyes transfixed us. At such moments the creature--though he bore the form of a man--seemed
to project his dreadful countenance toward the object of his inspection like a monstrous bird
stretching forth its neck toward its prey. The effect was indescribable, terrifying, paralyzing!
The eyes glowed like fanned embers.

"In God's name," gasped Jack, leaning his trembling shoulder upon me, "what is it?"

I was, perhaps, more unmanned than he, and could make no reply.

Then there was a movement in the throng surrounding us, and the old man of the sunbursts appeared
before the throne, and, after dropping on his knees and rising again, indicated us with his
long finger, and, as was plain, made some serious accusation. The face turned upon us again
with a longer gaze than usual, and we literally shrank from it. Then its owner rose from his
seat, towering up, it seemed, to a height of full seven feet, shot his hand out with a gesture
of condemnation, and instantly sat down again and averted his countenance. There seemed to
have been a world of meaning in this brief act to those who could comprehend it. We were seized,
even more roughly than before, and dragged from the chamber, and at the end of a few minutes
found ourselves thrown into a dungeon, where there was not the slightest glimmer of light,
and the door was locked upon us.

It was a long time before either of us summoned up the courage to speak. At length I said faintly:

"Jack, I'm afraid it's all over with us. We must have done something terrible, though I cannot
imagine what it was."

But Jack, after his manner, was already recovering his spirits, and he replied stoutly:

"Nonsense, Peter, we're all right, as Edmund says. Wait till he comes and he'll fix it."

"But how can he know what has happened? And what could he do if he did? More likely they will
all be condemned along with us."

Jack felt around in the dark and got me by the hand, giving it a hearty pressure.

"Remember Ala," he said. "She's our friend, or Edmund's, and they'll bring us out of this.
You want to brace up."

"Remember Ingra!" I responded with a shiver, and I could feel Jack start at the words.

"Hang him!" he muttered. "If I'd only finished him when I had the drop!"

After that neither spoke. If Jack's thoughts were blacker than mine he must have wished for
his pistol to blow out his own brains. At no time since our arrival on the planet had I felt
so depressed. I had no courage left; could see no lightening of the gloom anywhere. In the
horror of the darkness which enveloped us, the horror of space came over my spirit. One feels
a little of that sometimes when the breadth of an ocean separates him from home, and from all
who really care for him--but what is the Atlantic or the Pacific to millions upon millions
of leagues of interplanetary space! To be cast away among the inhabitants of another world
than one's own! To have lost, as we had done (for in that moment of despair I was sure Edmund
could never repair the car), the only possible means of return! To have offended, just because
we were strangers, and could not know better, some incomprehensible social law of this strange
people, who owned not a drop of the blood of our race, or of any race whatsoever dwelling on
the earth! To lie under the condemnation of that goblin face, without the possibility of pleading
even the mercy that our hearts instinctively grant to the smallest mite of fellow life on our
own planet! To be alone! friendless! forsaken! condemned!--in a far-off, kinless world! I could
have fallen down in idolatry before a grain of sand from the shore of the Atlantic!

In the murkiest depth of my despair a sound roused me with a shock that made my heart ache.
In a moment the door opened, light streamed in, and Edmund stood there.

CHAPTER XIV

THE SUN GOD

Strangely enough, I, who have an exceptional memory for spoken words, cannot, by any effort,
recall what Edmund said, as his face beamed in upon us. I have only a confused recollection
that he spoke, and that his words had a marvelous effect upon my broken spirit. But I can see,
as if it were yet before me, the smile that illumined his features. My heart bounded with joy,
as if a messenger had come straight from the earth itself, bearing a reprieve whose authority
could not be called in question.

