Transcriber's Note:                                       |
    |                                                           |
    | Inconsistent hyphenation in the original document has     |
    | been preserved.

CONTENTS

CHAP.                                                        PAGE

      INTRODUCTION                                              i

   I. WAR'S CONQUEST OF THE AIR                                 1

  II. THE TRANSITION TO PEACE                                  11

 III. TRAINING AN AIRPLANE PILOT                               24

  IV. SAFETY IN FLYING                                         39

   V. QUALIFICATIONS OF AN AIRPLANE MECHANIC                   52

  VI. THE FIRST CROSSING OF THE ATLANTIC                       63

 VII. LANDING-FIELDS--THE IMMEDIATE NEED                       76

VIII. THE AIRPLANE'S BROTHER                                   85

  IX. THE CALL OF THE SKIES                                    96

      ADDENDUM                                                107

INTRODUCTION

Any ordinary, active man, provided he has reasonably good eyesight and nerve, can fly, and
fly well. If he has nerve enough to drive an automobile through the streets of a large city,
and perhaps argue with a policeman on the question of speed limits, he can take himself off
the ground in an airplane, and also land--a thing vastly more difficult and dangerous. We hear
a great deal about special tests for the flier--vacuum-chambers, spinning-chairs, co-ordination
tests--there need be none of these. The average man in the street, the clerk, the laborer,
the mechanic, the salesman, with proper training and interest can be made good, if not highly
proficient pilots. If there may be one deduction drawn from the experience of instructors in
the Royal Air Force, it is that it is the training, not the individual, that makes the pilot.

Education is not the prime requisite. Good common sense and judgment are much more valuable.
Above all, a sense of touch, such as a man can acquire playing the piano, swinging a pick,
riding a bicycle, driving an automobile, or playing tennis, is important. A man should not
be too sensitive to loss of balance, nor should he be lacking in a sense of balance. There
are people who cannot sail a sail-boat or ride a bicycle--these people have no place in the
air. But ninety-nine out of one hundred men, the ordinary normal men, can learn to fly. This
has been the experience of the Royal Air Force in Canada.

There will be as much difference between the civilian pilot, the man who owns an airplane of
the future and drives it himself, and the army flier, as there is now between the man who drives
his car on Sunday afternoons over country roads and the racing driver who is striving for new
records on specially built tracks. If aeronautics is to be made popular, every one must be
able to take part in it. It must cease to be a highly specialized business. It must be put
on a basis where the ordinary person can snap the flying wires of a machine, listen to their
twang, and know them to be true, just as any one now thumps his rear tire to see whether it
is properly inflated.

The book, in a large sense a labor of love, is the collaboration of an American officer of
the United States Air Service and another American, a flying-officer in the Royal Air Force.
If the Royal Air Force way of doing things seems to crowd itself to the fore in the discussion
of the training of pilots, the authors crave indulgence.

In a subject which lends itself dangerously to imagination, the authors have endeavored to
base what they have written, not on prophecy, but on actual accomplishments to date. The latter
are indeed so solid that there is no necessity for guesswork. Aviation has proved itself beyond
peradventure to those who have followed it, but up to the present the general public has not
sufficiently analyzed its demonstrated possibilities.

The era of the air is undoubtedly at hand; it now remains to take the steps necessary to reap
full advantages from it.

                                        ARTHUR SWEETSER,
                                            GORDON LAMONT.

OPPORTUNITIES IN AVIATION

I

WAR'S CONQUEST OF THE AIR

The World War opened to man the freedom of the skies. Amid all its anguish and suffering has
come forth the conquest of the air. Scientists, manufacturers, dreamers, and the most hard-headed
of men have united under the goad of its necessity to sweep away in a series of supreme efforts
all the fears and doubts which had chained men to earth.

True, years before, in fact, nearly a decade before, the Wright brothers had risen from the
ground and flown about through the air in a machine which defied conventional rules and beliefs.
The world had looked on in wonder, and then dropped back into an apathetic acceptance of the
fact. Despite the actual demonstration and the field of imagination which was opened up, these
early flights proved to be a world's wonder only for a moment.

For years aviation dragged on. Daredevils and adventurers took it up to make money by hair-raising
exploits at various meets and exhibits. Many died, and the general public, after satiating
its lust for the sensational, turned its thought elsewhere. Flight was regarded as somewhat
the plaything of those who cared not for life, and as a result the serious, sober thought of
the community did not enter into its solution.

Business men held aloof. Apart from circus performances there seemed no money to be made in
aviation and consequently practically none was invested in it. What little manufacturing was
done was by zealots and inventors. Workmanship was entirely by hand, slow, amateurish, and
unreliable.

Strangely enough, scientists were equally apathetic. It might have been expected that their
imaginations would be fired by the unexplored realms of the air and by the incomparably new
field of experiment opened to them; but they were not. The great question, that of flight itself,
had been answered, and but few were interested in working out the less spectacular applications
of its principles. Aviation remained very much of a poor sister in the scientific world, held
back by all the discredit attaching to the early stunt-flying and by failure to break through
the ancient belief in its impracticability for any purposes other than the sensational.

So the science limped along, unsupported by either public interest or capital. Now and again
some startling feat attracted the world's attention, as when the English Channel was first
crossed by air and England was made to realize that her insularity was gone. For a moment this
feat held public interest, but again without a true realization of its significance. There
seemed nothing which would drive man to develop the gift which had been put within his reach.

Up to that fatal moment in August, 1914, when the World War broke out, aviation had made but
little progress. All nations had what passed as air services, but they were very small and
ill-equipped and were regarded with doubt and suspicion by the military leaders of the various
countries. Compared with what has since taken place, the experiments previous to the war were
only the most rudimentary beginnings.

Then came the war. Man's imagination was aroused to a feverish desire for the development of
any device for causing destruction. Conventions, usages, and prejudices were laid aside and
every possibility of inflicting damage on the enemy was examined on its merits. Sentiment or
any regard for personal danger involved was thrown to the winds. Science was mobilized in all
lines in the struggle to keep one step ahead of the enemy.

Almost immediately aviation challenged the attention of the responsible leaders. The handful
of French planes which in those early fateful days of August penetrated up into Belgium brought
back the information of the German mobilization there, and this led to the rearrangement of
French forces in preparation for the battle of the Marne. As a result aviation at once leaped
into high repute for scouting purposes and the foundations were laid for its great development.

But as aviation had proved itself in the warfare of movement leading down to the Marne and
sweeping back later to the Aisne, so it proved itself in the French warfare which was so unexpectedly
to follow. When the two opposing lines were so close together that they locked almost in a
death grip, each side kept such strict watch that ground observation was greatly hampered.
Apparently there was only one way to find out what was going on behind the enemy's lines. That
was by looking from above. The first aviator, therefore, who sailed into the air and spied
the enemy introduced one of the most important developments in the strategy of modern warfare.

Thereupon began one of those silent battles of the rear, of which we see and hear so little,
but which indeed decides sometimes far in advance of the actual test of battle just which side
is going to win. Scientists, inventors, manufacturers, and practical fliers began coming together
in increasing numbers to exact from this latest method of warfare its last degree of usefulness.
In the studies and factories on both sides of the lines men dedicated themselves to the solution
of the problem of flight.

Stage by stage the difficulties were overcome. First it was the Germans who with their terrible
Fokker planes harnessed the machine-gun to the airplane and made of it a weapon of offense.
Then it was the Allies who added the radio and made of it an efficient method of observation
and spotting of artillery fire. Increased engine-power began to be developed, and bombs were
carried in ever-increasing numbers and size.

The moment an enemy plane fell on either side of the line the victors gathered about their
prey with a keenness which could come only of the hope that they might find in it some suggestion
that would make their own flying more efficient. Each learned from the other, so that the different
schools on either side of the line had all the advantage of watching the development of their
rivals. Very shortly after an improvement appeared on one side it reappeared in the planes
of the other side.

It is doubtful if ever a more desperate scientific battle was fought than that which featured
the development of the air services of the various belligerents during the war. Control of
the air was so vital that neither could afford to overlook any possibility; and, as a result,
the scientific evolution was truly astounding. No man was reserved on this subject of airplane
improvement. All contributed their best skill and ability to the common reservoir of knowledge.

Very soon man's conquest of the air became so complete that different types of planes were
developed for different kinds of work. The plane of the early days which wandered off by itself
wherever it saw fit, gathered what information it could, and returned to drop a note to the
commander below, developed into a highly efficient two-seated plane equipped with machine-guns
for protection against attack, wireless for sending back messages, and cameras for photographing
the enemy's positions below. The plane which had earlier dropped an occasional bomb in a hit-or-miss
fashion over the side now developed either into a powerful two-seater with a great weight-carrying
capacity and a continually more efficient scientific method of aiming its missiles or into
a huge machine for long-distance night-bombing work capable of carrying from two to a dozen
men and from two to four tons of bombs. During this time the strictly fighting plane, usually
a single-seater, increased in speed, "ceiling," and agility till it could dart, twist, and
dive about, three to five miles above the trenches, protecting friendly bombing and observation
planes below from enemy attack or swooping down to send enemy planes in flames to the ground.

Vital though all this work was for the war, it had an incomparably greater value for the perpetual
struggle which all mankind is waging against nature. While the various nations were seeking
to destroy one another through the air, they were in reality destroying the chains which bound
them to the ground and winning their freedom in a new element. The advance which the Allies
or the Germans made over each other in scientific aerial development was a joint advance over
the restrictions of gravitation.

This, indeed, apart from the spread of democracy and internationalism, may well stand out in
history as the war's richest heritage. Problems which had been considered insoluble were solved.
The casting aside of all conventions, all restrictive habits of thought, all selfishnesses,
and the focusing of the highest scientific ability in a struggle which might mean the life
or death of the nation, had brought as a by-product a development beyond our wildest fancies.

Aerial operations in any future war, however, will have at once a problem which has only recently
and in very much smaller degree confronted the navy, namely, the assurance of attack not only
on the front, in the rear, and on both flanks, but from above and below as well. Recently the
navy has had to face that problem--submarines operating below and airplanes above; but the
problem of attack upon a ship is not so serious as upon an airplane.

Already, in order to meet this danger of attack from every possible direction, a most complete
strategy and system of formations have been worked out. In this way the various types of planes
operate in different air strata according to their missions, the upper planes echelon somewhat
behind those below on the order of a flight of steps facing the enemy. This system provides
a quick method of reception of an attack and the assurance of quick support, no matter where
the attack may come. Obviously there would be nothing in all of warfare on either land or sea
comparable to a collision between two such aerial fleets. The speed of the lighter planes,
quick, life-taking duels in several different strata at once, would provide a clash of action,
speed, and skill far more beautiful and yet in many ways far more terrible than anything ever
recorded in the history of war.

Fleets of the skies--who shall attempt at this day of the infancy of the science to limit their
scope? Aerial battle-planes of colossal size and power are as certain to come in time, and
in not a very long time, as the dreadnought of to-day was certain to follow the first armored
ship of only a half-century ago. Never yet has man opened up a new avenue of war that he has
not pursued it relentlessly to its final conclusion. It is certain that he will not fail to
push aerial development with all the energy with which he has devoted himself to the science
of destruction.

The avenue of the seas has been up to now the world's greatest civilizer. Very shortly, without
doubt, it will be replaced by the avenue of the skies. If we are to strive for freedom of the
seas, what shall we say about freedom of this new element? The laws of aerial travel and aerial
warfare open an unlimited field of speculation.

II

THE TRANSITION TO PEACE

Developments during the war, despite their startling sensational character, had, however, been
so overshadowed by human suffering and desperation that but few minds were awake to the changes
that were to influence man's future. Amid the disasters, battles, and unprecedented movements
in the politics of nations, the achievements of flight could command but a passing notice.
People looked and wondered, but were distracted from following their thoughts through to the
logical conclusion by the roar of a seventy-mile gun, the collapse of a nation, or the shock
of battle on a one-hundred-mile front.

Let us, however, weave together a few things that were done in those days of sensation, which
may have a particular effect on the future of the science. Most conspicuous, perhaps, was the
obliteration of distance and of all the customary limitations of travel. German airplanes in
squadrons penetrated into snug little England when the German fleet stood locked in its harbor.
The Italian poet D'Annunzio dropped leaflets over Vienna when his armies were held at bay at
the Alps. French, British, and finally American planes brought the war home to cities of the
Rhine which never even saw the Allied troops till Germany had surrendered.

None of the conventional barriers stood in the way of these long trips. A new route of travel
had been opened up along which men flew at will. The boundary-lines of states below, which
look so formidable on the map, were passed over with the greatest ease, as well as such natural
obstacles as the Alps and the English Channel.

Tremendous saving in time was constantly being effected. Men were able to dart back and forth
from the front to the rear and from England to France with a speed never dreamed of by other
means of travel. To be sure, the front-line demands for planes were too severe to allow a very
wide use in this way, but nevertheless the possibilities were there and were constantly availed
of.[1]

Indeed, the British early established a communication squadron for this specific purpose. In
the last three months of the war 279 cross-country passenger flights were made to such places
as Paris, Nancy, Dunkirk, and Manchester, all of them without a single accident! Moreover,
a Channel ferry service was created which in seventy-one days of flying weather made 227 crossings,
covered over 8,000 miles, and carried 1,843 passengers.

With trains seldom going above 60 miles an hour, the slowest airplane went 80 and the average
daylight plane on the front probably equaled 110. The fast fighters went up to 120, 130, and
even 140 miles an hour, over twice as fast as any method of travel previously known. Just as
the curtain closed on the war, there had been developed in the United States a plane credited
with 162-2/3 miles an hour, and no one for a moment believed that the limit had been reached.

Altitude likewise had been obliterated. The customary height for two-seated observation and
bombing planes was between one and two miles, and of single-seated scouts between two and four
miles. These altitudes were not the freakish heights occasionally obtained by adventurous fliers;
on the contrary they were the customary levels at which the different kinds of duties were
carried out. Many men, of course, went far higher. Since then an American, Roland Rohlfs, flying
a Curtiss "Wasp" set the unofficial altitude record at 34,610 feet--higher than the world's
highest mountain.

Life at these altitudes was not possible, of course, under ordinary conditions. The temperature
fell far below zero and the air became so thin that neither man nor engine could function unaided.
As a result the fliers were kept from freezing by electrically heated clothing and from unconsciousness
from lack of air by artificially supplied oxygen. Similarly the oil, water, and gasolene of
the engine were kept working by special methods.

The armistice threw the different nations into a dilemma as to their aviation plans. Obviously
the huge war planes which were still in the building in all the belligerent countries were
no longer necessary. Almost immediately, therefore, the placing of new contracts was halted
by the various governments, enlistments stopped, and plans set in motion for the new requirements.

Within a very short time the United States canceled several hundred million dollars' worth
of contracts on which little actual expenditure had been made by the manufacturers. Shipments
of men and planes overseas were of course brought to an end and at the same time arrangements
were made for bringing back from France the great aerial equipment mobilized there. Indeed,
the air service units were among the first to be returned, especially the labor and construction
troops in England.

Nevertheless, military aviation of the future was definitely safeguarded. A bill was presented
to Congress for an aerial force of 4,000 officers and 22,000 men, a fitting contrast to the
force of 65 officers and 1,120 men with which the country had entered the war. Certain flying
fields and schools which had shown the greatest value in the past and promised most for the
future were definitely designated for permanent use, and especial effort was made to keep in
the service the best of the technical experts and designers who had helped to solve America's
problems of the air.

Abroad demobilization was less rapid, as it was in all other lines. The British, who had given
particular thought to after-war aviation, immediately turned to converting all their valuable
war material and experience into a national force which should assure England of the supremacy
of the air as well as strength in her supremacy of the seas. France, the custodian of Germany's
great aerial force, found more than enough work for all her men in taking care of the hundreds
of surrendered machines. Both nations at the same time took long steps toward building up the
civil machinery necessary for private, non-military flying.

For several months, of course, there was a hiatus. Thought had been so concentrated on military
aviation that the conversion to peace work proved slow. Only the most general plans had been
made in any of the countries, and those by ardent supporters of aviation, who were forced to
make the most earnest efforts to obtain consideration of the subject in the midst of all the
vital problems of peace and reconstruction. Greatest of all the difficulties was that, as private
flying had been prohibited during the war, there were, with the coming of peace, no rules and
regulations ready for it. Also many great projects for international flights had to be postponed
because of complete lack of international rules in this respect.

Nevertheless, most spectacular and convincing flights followed one another in rapid succession.
The most outstanding of these flights was, of course, the first crossing of the Atlantic by
seaplane--a triumph of organized effort by the navy. At the same time all over the world flights
took place with astounding frequency which illustrated, as little else could, the certain future
of aviation. Seas, mountains, deserts, places otherwise almost impassable were traversed with
ease and speed.

Army fliers flew from the Atlantic to the Pacific within a few months of the signing of the
armistice. It required but fifty hours of flying-time, just a fraction over two days. At that
time no attempt was made to obtain speed, as the purpose of the trip had been to locate landing-fields
and make aerial maps for future transcontinental flights.

The four planes that made this trip might be considered as the pioneers of vast flocks of airplanes
which within a short time will be winging their way from coast to coast. If, with machines
built specifically for war purposes and with no special landing-fields or routes laid out,
aviators could successfully travel from one coast to the other in fifty hours of flying-time,
how much more rapidly will future trips be made when special touring-planes have been developed,
routes and landing-fields are laid out, repair-shops are built, and the trip becomes a matter
of routine rather than aerial experiments.

The effect that this new method of travel will have on American life and development is staggering
to the imagination. San Francisco and New York will be almost neighbors, while Chicago and
New Orleans will be but a pleasant day's trip apart. The business man, the statesman, and even
the courier can be transported from one end of the country to the other, independent of steel
rails and other devices, in record time.

Such experiments have already proved successful in Europe. The British Foreign Office in London,
anxious to keep in close touch with the Peace Conference at Paris, turned to the airplane to
assure quick transportation of men and documents. The slow train trip with the irksome transfer
to and from the Channel steamer and the more irksome voyage across the Channel itself, were
avoided by a special service through the air. Thus two great capitals were brought within a
few hours' time of each other, which greatly facilitated the vital negotiations under way.

Civilians were finally granted the right to make the trip under military supervision. Fourteen
passengers were transported from Paris to London in two hours and forty minutes as against
six hours and forty minutes, the fastest time ever made by any other means of travel. Each
of them had twenty pounds of luggage, and luncheon of cold ham and champagne was served on
board over the Channel, followed by a game of cards. It was easily demonstrated by the return
trip that men could leave either capital after breakfast, have several hours in the other,
and return home for dinner.

Then a French flier with six passengers made the flight from Paris to Brussels. The time consumed
between the two capitals was but two hours as against over five by the ordinary train travel.
As an instance of some of the problems which this particular flight brought about, it was observed
that a Belgian policeman approached the plane as it was about to leave and inquired for passports
and papers. Everybody made excuses for not having them. The policeman refused to allow the
airplane to leave. Finally the pilot, losing his patience and temper, started the motor and
flew off before the angered official knew what had happened.

Two other French aviators about the same time crossed the Mediterranean from France to Algiers
and back in the same day. Though unequipped with seaplane devices, they started out with full
confidence that their motors would carry them over the water. With only their navigating instruments
and an occasional vessel to guide them, they reached their destination after a perfect trip
and created a great sensation among the natives who came down to see the airplanes alight.

