

    "But my letter is assuming rather lengthy proportions, and I must
    hasten to a close. I have related just one incident in the life of
    Col. Grass that illustrates his spirit of patriotism and love of
    country. I could speak of many more, but the occasion demands
    brevity. Of his career since the close of the war, in civil life
    here in Kansas, there are others better qualified to speak than I
    am. I will only say that my personal relations with him since he
    came to this State, dating away back in the early seventies, have
    continued to be, during all these years, what they were in the
    trying and perilous days of the war--of the most friendly and
    fraternal character. To me, at least, he was always Col. Dan Grass,
    my regimental commander; while he, as I am happy to believe, always
    looked upon and remembered me simply as 'Lee Stillwell, the little
    sergeant of Company D.'

    "I remain very sincerely your friend,

    "L. STILLWELL."

In the spring of 1864 it was determined by the military authorities to undertake some offensive
operations in what was styled the "Red River country," the objective point being Shreveport,
Louisiana. Gen. N. P. Banks was to move with an army from New Orleans, and Gen. Steele, in
command of the Department of Arkansas, was to co-operate with a force from Little Rock. And
here my regiment sustained what I regarded, and still regard, as a piece of bad luck. It was
not included in this moving column, but was assigned to the duty of serving as provost guard
of the city of Little Rock during the absence of the main army. To be left there in that capacity,
while the bulk of the troops in that department would be marching and fighting was, from my
standpoint, a most mortifying circumstance. But the duty that devolved on us had to be done
by somebody, and soldiers can only obey orders. Our officers said at the time that only efficient
and well-disciplined troops were entrusted with the position of provost-guards of a city the
size of Little Rock, and hence that our being so designated was a compliment to the regiment.
That sounded plausible, and it may have been true, probably was, but I didn't like the job
a bit. It may, however, have all been for the best, as this Red River expedition, especially
the part undertaken by Gen. Banks, was a disastrous failure. Gen. Steele left Little Rock about
March 23rd, with a force, of all arms, of about 12,000 men, but got no further than Camden,
Arkansas. Gen. Banks was defeated by the Confederates at the battle of Sabine Cross-Roads,
in Louisiana, on April 8th, and was forced to retreat. The enemy then was at liberty to concentrate
on General Steele, and so he likewise was under the necessity of retreating, and scuttling
back to Little Rock just as rapidly as possible. But on this retreat he and his men did some
good, hard fighting, and stood off the Confederates effectively. About the first intimation
we in Little Rock had that our fellows were coming back was when nearly every soldier in the
city that was able to wield a mattock or a spade was detailed for fatigue duty and set to work
throwing up breastworks, and kept at it, both day and night. I happened to see Gen. Steele
when he rode into town on May 2nd, at the head of his troops, and he looked tough. He had on
a battered felt hat, with a drooping brim, an oil-cloth "slicker," much the worse for wear,
the ends of his pantaloons were stuck in his boots, and he was just splashed and splattered
with mud from head to foot. But he sat firm and erect in his saddle, (he was a magnificent
horseman,) and his eyes were flashing as if he had plenty of fight left in him yet. And the
rank and file of our retreating army was just the hardest looking outfit of Federal soldiers
that I saw during the war, at any time. The most of them looked as if they had been rolled
in the mud, numbers of them were barefoot, and I also saw several with the legs of their trousers
all gone, high up, socking through the mud like big blue cranes.

In view of the feverish haste with which Little Rock had been put in a state for defensive
operations, and considering also all the reports in circulation, we fully expected that Price's
whole army would make an attack on us almost any day. But the Confederates had been so roughly
handled in the battle of Jenkins' Ferry, April 30th, on the Saline river, that none of their
infantry came east of that river, nor any of their cavalry except a small body, which soon
retired. The whole Confederate army, about May 1st, fell back to Camden, and soon all was again
quiet along the Arkansas.

I will now go back about two weeks in order to give an account of a little expedition our regiment
took part in when Gen. Steele's army was at Camden.

Late on the evening of April 19th, we fell in, marched to the railroad depot, climbed on the
cars, and were taken that night to Devall's Bluff. Next morning we embarked on the steamboat
"James Raymond," and started up White river. The other troops that took part in the movement
were the 3rd Minnesota Infantry and a detachment of the 8th Missouri Cavalry. We arrived at
the town of Augusta, (about eighty miles by water from Devall's Bluff,) on the morning of the
21st. It was a little, old, dilapidated river town, largely in a deserted condition, situated
on low, bottom land, on the east bank of White river. On arriving we at once debarked from
the boat, and all our little force marched out a mile or so east of the town, where we halted,
and formed in line of battle in the edge of the woods, with a large open field in our front,
on the other side of which were tall, dense woods. As there were no signs or indications of
any enemy in the town, and everything around was so quiet and sleepy, I couldn't understand
what these ominous preparations meant. Happening to notice the old chaplain a short distance
in the rear of our company, I slipped out of ranks, and walked back to him for the purpose
of getting a pointer, if possible. He was by himself, and as I approached him, seemed to be
looking rather serious. He probably saw inquiry in my eyes, and without waiting for question
made a gesture with his hands towards the woods in our front, and said, "O Son of Jeremiah!
Here is where we shall give battle to those who trouble Israel!" "What! What is that you say?"
said I, in much astonishment. "It is even so," he continued; "the Philistines are abroad in
the land, having among them, as they assert, many valiant men who can sling stones at a hair's
breadth and not miss. They await us, even now, in the forest beyond. But, Son of Jeremiah,"
said he, "if the uncircumcised heathen should assail the Lord's anointed, be strong, and quit
yourself like a man!" "All right, Chaplain," I responded; "I have forty rounds in the box,
and forty on the person, and will give them the best I have in the shop. But, say! Take care
of my watch, will you? And, should anything happen, please send it to the folks at home;"--and
handing him my little old silver time-piece, I resumed my place in the ranks. After what seemed
to me a most tiresome wait, we finally advanced, preceded by a line of skirmishers. I kept
my eyes fixed on the woods in our front, expecting every minute to see burst therefrom puffs
of white smoke, followed by the whiz of bullets and the crash of musketry, but nothing of the
kind happened. Our skirmishers entered the forest, and disappeared, and still everything remained
quiet. The main line followed, and after gaining the woods, we discovered plenty of evidence
that they had quite recently been occupied by a body of cavalry. The ground was cut up by horses'
tracks, and little piles of corn in the ear, only partly eaten, were scattered around. We advanced
through the woods and swamps for some miles and scouted around considerably, but found no enemy,
except a few stragglers that were picked up by our cavalry. We left Augusta on the 24th, on
our steamboat, and arrived at Little Rock on the same day. I met the chaplain on the boat while
on our return, and remarked to him that, "Those mighty men who could kill a jaybird with a
sling-shot a quarter of a mile off didn't stay to see the show." "No," he answered; "when the
sons of Belial beheld our warlike preparation, their hearts melted, and became as water; they
gat every man upon his ass, and speedily fled, even beyond the brook which is called Cache."
He then went on to tell me that on our arrival at Augusta there was a body of Confederate cavalry
near there, supposed to be about a thousand strong, under the command of a General McRae; that
they were bivouacked in the woods in front of the line of battle we formed, and that on our
approach they had scattered and fled. The enemy's force really exceeded ours, but, as a general
proposition, their cavalry was reluctant to attack our infantry, in a broken country, unless
they could accomplish something in the nature of a surprise, or otherwise have a decided advantage
at the start.

On May 16th we shifted our camp to Huntersville, on the left bank of the Arkansas river, and
near our first location. We thus abandoned our log cabins, and never occupied them again. They
were now getting too close and warm for comfort, anyhow. But they had been mighty good friends
to us in the bitterly cold winter of '63-4, and during that time we spent many a cosy, happy
day and night therein.

On May 19th we again received marching orders, and the regiment left camp that night on the
cars, and went to Hicks' station, 28 miles from Little Rock. We remained here, bivouacking
in the woods, until the 22nd, when, at 3 o'clock in the morning of that day, we took up the
line of march, moving in a northerly direction. The troops that composed our force consisted
of the 61st, 54th, and 106th Illinois, and 12th Michigan (infantry regiments), a battery of
artillery, and some detachments of cavalry; Brig. Gen. J. R. West in command. We arrived at
the town of Austin, 18 miles from Hicks' Station, about 2 o'clock on the afternoon of the 22nd.
It was a little country village, situated on a rocky, somewhat elevated ridge. As I understand,
it is now a station on the Iron Mountain railroad, which has been built since the war. I reckon
if in May, 1864, any one had predicted that some day a railroad would be built and in operation
through that insignificant settlement among the rocks and trees, he would have been looked
on as hardly a safe person to be allowed to run at large.

Co. D started on the march with only one commissioned officer, Second Lieutenant Wallace. I
have forgotten the cause of the absence of Capt. Keeley and Lieut. Warren, but there was doubtless
some good reason. On the first day's march the weather was hot, and the route was through a
very rough and broken country. Wallace was overcome by heat, and had to fall out, and wait
for an ambulance. In consequence, it so happened that when we reached Austin, there was no
commissioned officer with us, and I, as first sergeant, was in command of the company. And
that gave rise to an incident which, at the time, swelled me up immensely. On arriving at the
town, the regiment halted on some open ground in the outskirts, fell into line, dressed on
the colors, and stood at ordered arms. Thereupon the adjutant commanded, "Commanding officers
of companies, to the front and center, march!" I was completely taken by surprise by this command,
and for a second or two stood, dazed and uncertain. But two or three of the boys spoke up at
once and said, "You're our commanding officer, Stillwell; go!" The situation by this time had
also dawned on me, so I promptly obeyed the command. But I must have been a strange looking
"commanding officer." I was barefooted, breeches rolled up nearly to the knees, feet and ankles
"scratched and tanned," and my face covered with sweat and dirt. The closest scrutiny would
have failed to detect in me a single feature of the supposed "pomp and circumstance" of an
alleged military hero. But I stalked down the line, bare feet and all, with my musket at a
shoulder arms, and looking fully as proud, I imagine, as Henry of Navarre ever did at the battle
of Ivry, with "a snow-white plume upon his gallant crest." By the proper and usual commands,
the "commanding officers of companies" were brought up and halted within a few paces of Col.
Ohr, who thereupon addressed them as follows:

"Gentleman, have your men stack arms where they now are, and at once prepare their dinner.
They can disperse to get wood and water, but caution them strictly not to wander far from the
gun stacks. We may possibly pass the night here, but we may be called on, at any moment, to
fall in and resume the march. That's all, gentlemen."

While the Colonel was giving these instructions, I thought a sort of unusual twinkle sparkled
in his eyes, as they rested on me. But, for my part, I was never more serious in my life. Returning
to the company, I gave the order to stack arms, which being done, the boys crowded around me,
plying me with questions. "What did the Colonel say? What's up, Stillwell?" I assumed a prodigiously
fierce and authoritative look and said: "Say, do you fellows suppose that we commanding officers
of companies are going to give away to a lot of lousy privates a confidential communication
from the Colonel? If you are guilty of any more such impertinent conduct, I'll have every mother's
son of you bucked and gagged." The boys all laughed, and after a little more fun of that kind,
I repeated to them literally every word the Colonel said, and then we all set about getting
dinner. About this time Lieut. Wallace rode up in an ambulance--and my reign was over. We resumed
the march at 3 o'clock in the morning of the next day (May 23rd), marched 18 miles, and bivouacked
that night at Peach Orchard Gap. This was no town, simply a natural feature of the country.
Left here next morning (the 24th) at daylight, marched 18 miles, and bivouacked on a stream
called Little Cadron. Left at daylight next morning (the 25th), marched 18 miles, and went
into camp near the town of Springfield. By this time the intelligence had filtered down to
the common soldiers as to the object of this expedition. It was to intercept, and give battle
to, a force of Confederate cavalry, under Gen. J. O. Shelby, operating somewhere in this region,
and supposed to have threatening designs on the Little Rock and Devall's Bluff railroad. But
so far as encountering the Confederates was concerned, the movement was an entire failure.
My experience during the war warrants the assertion, I think, that it is no use to send infantry
after cavalry. It is very much like a man on foot trying to run down a jack-rabbit. It may
be that infantry can sometimes head off cavalry, and thereby frustrate an intended movement,
but men on horses can't be maneuvered into fighting men on foot unless the horsemen are willing
to engage. Otherwise they will just keep out of the way.

We remained at Springfield until May 28th. It was a little place and its population when the
war began was probably not more than a hundred and fifty, or two hundred. It was the county
seat of Conway county, but there was no official business being transacted there now. About
all the people had left, except a few old men and some women and small children. The houses
were nearly all log cabins. Even the county jail was a log structure of a very simply and unimposing
type. It has always been my opinion that this little place was the most interesting and romantic-looking
spot (with one possible exception I may speak of later) that I saw in the South during all
my army service. The town was situated on rather high ground, and in the heart of the primitive
forest. Grand native trees were growing in the door-yards, and even in the middle of the main
street,--and all around everywhere. And we were there at a season of the year when Nature was
at its best, and all the scenery was most attractive and charming. I sometimes would sit down
at the foot of some big tree in the center of the little village, and ponder on what surely
must have been the happy, contented condition of its people before the war came along and spoiled
all. Judging from the looks of the houses, the occupants doubtless had been poor people and
practically all on the same financial footing, so there was no occasion for envy. And there
was no railroad, nor telegraph line, nor daily papers, to keep them nervous and excited or
cause them to worry. And they were far away from the busy haunts of congregated men,--

    "Their best companions, innocence and health,
    And their best riches, ignorance of wealth."

Their trading point was Lewisburg, about fifteen miles southwest on the Arkansas river, and
when that stream was at a proper stage, small steamboats would ply up and down, and bring to
Lewisburg groceries and dry goods, and such other things as the country did not produce, which
would then be wagoned out to Springfield and into the country generally. And judging from all
that could be seen or heard, I think there were hardly any slaves at Springfield, or in the
entire north part of Conway county, before the war. What few there may have been were limited
to the plantations along the Arkansas river. I have never been at the little town since the
occasion now mentioned, so personally I know nothing of its present appearance and condition.
However, as a matter of general information, it may be said that after the war a railroad was
built running up the Arkansas river valley, through the south part of the county. This road
left Springfield out, so in course of time it lost the county seat, which went to a railroad
town. And this road also missed Lewisburg, which has now disappeared from the map entirely.

When in camp at Springfield, many of the boys, in accordance with their usual habits, of their
own motion at once went to scouting around over the adjacent country, after pigs, or chickens,
or anything else that would serve to vary army fare. While so engaged two or three of our fellows
discovered a little old whisky still. It was about two miles from Springfield, situated in
a deep, timbered hollow, near a big spring. It was fully equipped for active operation, with
a supply of "mash" on hands, and all other essentials for turning out whisky. Some of the 10th
Illinois Cavalry found it first, and scared away the proprietor, then took charge of the still
and proceeded to carry on the business on their own account. The boys of the 61st who stumbled
on the place were too few to cope with the cavalrymen; thereupon they hastened back to camp
and informed some trusty comrades of the delectable discovery. Forthwith they organized a strong
party as an alleged "provost guard," and all armed, and under the command of a daring, reckless
duty sergeant, hastened to the still. On arriving there, in their capacity as provost guards,
they summarily arrested the cavalrymen, with loud threats of condign punishment, but after
scaring them sufficiently, and on their solemn promise to at once return to camp and "be good"
in the future, released them, and allowed them to depart. Then our bunch stacked arms, and
started in to make whisky. Some of the number had served in the business before, and knew all
about it, so that little still there in the hollow was then and there worked to its utmost
capacity, day and night, and doubtless as it never had been before. Knowledge of this enterprise
spread like wild-fire among the enlisted men,--and oh, "how the whisky went down" at Springfield!
Away along some hours after midnight, I would hear some of the boys coming in from the still,
letting out keen, piercing whoops that could be heard nearly a mile. Like the festive Tam O'Shanter
(with apologies to Burns),--

    "The swats sae reamed in every noddle,
    They cared na rebs nor guards a boddle."

I took just one little taste of the stuff, from Sam Ralston's canteen. It was limpid and colorless
as water, and fairly burnt like fire as it went down my throat. That satisfied my curiosity,
and after that many similar offers were declined, with thanks. Whether the officers at the
time knew of this business or not, I do not know. If they did, they just "winked the other
eye," and said nothing, for the boys ran the still, without restriction or interruption, until
we left Springfield.

Telling of the foregoing episode causes many other incidents to come flocking to my memory
that came under my notice during my army career, and in which whisky figured more or less.
The insatiable, inordinate appetite of some of the men for intoxicating liquor, of any kind,
was something remarkable, and the ingenious schemes they would devise to get it were worthy
of admiration, had they been exerted in a better cause. And they were not a bit fastidious
about the kind of liquor, it was the effect that was desired. One afternoon, a day or two after
we arrived at Helena, Arkansas, a sudden yell, a sort of "ki-yip!" was heard issuing from one
of the company tents, soon followed by others of the same tone. I had heard that peculiar yelp
before, and knew what it meant. Presently I sauntered down to the tent from whence the sounds
issued, and walked in. Several of the boys were seated around, in an exalted state of vociferous
hilarity, and a flat, pint bottle, with the figure of a green leaf on one side, and labeled
"Bay Rum" on the other, was promptly handed to me, with the invitation to "drink hearty." I
did taste it. It was oily, greasy, and unpleasant, but there was no doubt that it was intoxicating.
It was nothing but bay rum, the same stuff that in those days barbers were wont to use in their
line of business. It finally came to light that the sutler of some regiment at Helena had induced
the post-quartermaster at Cairo to believe that the troops stood in urgent need of bay rum
for the purpose of anointing their hair, and thereupon he obtained permission to include several
boxes of the stuff in his sutler supplies. When he got it to Helena he proceeded to sell it
at a dollar a bottle, and his stock was exhausted in a few hours. What may have been done to
this sutler I don't know, but that was the last and only time that I know of bay rum being
sold to the soldiers as a toilet article, or otherwise. Of course, all sutlers and civilians
were prohibited, under severe penalties, from selling intoxicating liquor to the enlisted men,
but the profits were so large that the temptation was great to occasionally transgress, in
some fashion. But, as a general rule, I think that the orders were scrupulously obeyed. The
risk was too great to do otherwise.

I remember a little personal experience of my own, when once I tried to buy a drink of whisky.
It is not a long story, so it will be told. It occurred at Devall's Bluff, in October, 1863,
when our little furlough party was there, waiting the arrival of a boat from below on which
to resume our homeward journey. One night in particular was quite cold. We slept in our blankets
on the ground near the bank of the river, built good fires, and tried to keep as comfortable
as possible. But the morning after this cold night I got up feeling wretched, both mentally
and physically. I was weak from previous illness, my rheumatic pains were worse, and my condition
in general was such as caused me to fear that I was liable to break down and not be able to
go home. It occurred to me that a drink of whisky might brace me up some, so I started out
to obtain one, if possible. There was a sort of a wharf-boat at the landing, moored to the
bank, a stationary, permanent affair, with a saloon appurtenant. I went on the boat, walked
up to the bar, and exhibiting a greenback to the bar-keeper, asked him if he would sell me
a drink of whisky. "Can't do it," he answered, "the orders are strict against selling whisky
to soldiers." I began moving away, and at that instant a big, greasy, colored deck-hand, or
laborer of some sort, black as the ace of spades, crowded by me, brushing against me in the
narrow passage on his way to the bar. "Boss," he called to the keeper, "want a dram!" A bottle
and a glass were pushed towards him, he filled the glass to the brim, and drank the contents
at a gulp. Then he smacked his big lips, rolled his eyes around, and with a deep breath exclaimed,
"A-h-h! Dat whisky feels des pow'ful good dis cole mawnin'!" I looked at the darkey in bitterness
of heart, and couldn't help thinking that it was all-fired mean, when a poor little sick soldier
was not allowed to buy a drink of whisky, while a great big buck nigger roustabout had it handed
out to him with cheerfulness and alacrity. But the orders forbidding the sale of intoxicating
liquors to soldiers were all right, and an imperative military necessity. If the men had been
allowed unlimited access to whisky, and the like, that would, in my opinion, simply have been
ruinous to the good order, discipline, and efficiency of the army. That statement is based
on events I saw myself while in the service, and which occurred when, in spite of the orders,
the men managed to obtain liquor without let or hindrance. The scenes that would then ensue
are too unpleasant to talk about, so they will be passed over in silence. It is only fair,
however, to say that the same men who, when furiously drunk, were a disgrace to themselves
and the organization to which they belonged, were, as a general rule, faithful and brave soldiers
when sober.

