The truth is that if our ordinary Englishman and German were to sit down together, and with
the help of books, maps, and newspapers, carefully and without prejudice, consider the annals
of their respective countries for the last sixteen years with a view to establishing the causes
of their delusion, they could hardly fail to confess that it was due to neither believing a
word the other said; to each crediting the other with motives which, as individuals and men
of honesty and integrity in the private relations of life, each would indignantly repudiate;
to each assuming the other to be in the condition of barbarism mankind began to emerge from
nineteen hundred years ago; to both supposing that Christianity has had so little influence
on the world that peoples are still compelled to live and go about their daily work armed to
the teeth lest they may be bludgeoned and robbed by their neighbours; that the hundreds of
treaties solemnly signed by contracting nations are mere pieces of waste paper only testifying
to the profundity and extent of human hypocrisy; that churches and cathedrals have been built,
universities, colleges, and schools founded, only to fill the empty air with noise; that the
printing presses of all countries have been occupied turning out myriads of books and papers
which have had no effect on the reason or conscience of mankind; that nations learn nothing
from experience; and to each supposing that he and his fellow-countrymen alone are the monopolists
of wisdom, honour, truth, justice, charity--in short, of all the attributes and blessings of
civilization. Is it not time to discard such error, or must the nations always suspect each
other? To finish with our introduction, and notwithstanding that qui s'excuse s'accuse, the
biographer may be permitted to say a few words on his own behalf. Inasmuch as the subject of
his biography is still, as has been said, happily alive, and is, moreover, in the prime of
his maturity, his life cannot be reviewed as a whole nor the ultimate consequences of his character
and policy be foretold. The biographer of the living cannot write with the detachment permissible
to the historian of the dead. No private correspondence of the Emperor's is available to throw
light on his more intimate personal disposition and relationships. There have been many rumours
of war since his accession, but no European war of great importance; and if a few minor campaigns
in tropical countries be excepted, Germany for over forty years, thanks largely to the Emperor,
has enjoyed the advantages of peace.

From the pictorial and sensational point of view continuous peace is a drawback for the biographer
no less than for the historian. What would history be without war?--almost inconceivable; since
wars, not peace, are the principal materials with which it deals and supply it with most of
its vitality and interest--must it also be admitted, its charm? For what are Hannibal or Napoleon
or Frederick the Great remembered?--for their wars, and little else.

Who, asks Heine, can name the artist who designed the cathedral of Cologne? In this regard
the biographer of an emperor is almost as dependent as the historian.

The biography of an emperor, again, must be to a large extent, the history of his reign, and
in no case is this more true than in that of Emperor William. But he has been closely identified
with every event of general importance to the world since he mounted the throne, and the world's
attention has been fastened without intermission on his words and conduct. The rise of the
modern German Empire is the salient fact of the world's history for the last half-century,
and accordingly only from this broader point of view will the Emperor's future biographer,
or the historian of the future, be able to do him or his Empire justice.

Lastly, another difficulty, if one may call it so, experienced equally by the biographer and
the historian, is the fact that the life of the Emperor has been blameless from the moral standpoint.
On two or three occasions early in the reign accounts were published of scandals at the Court.
They may not have been wholly baseless, but none of them directly involved the Emperor, or
even raised a doubt as to his respectability or reputation. Take from history--or from biography
for that matter--the vices of those it treats of, and one-third, perhaps one-half, of its "human
interest" disappears.

In the circumstances, therefore, all the writer need add is that he has done the best he could.
He has ignored, certainly, at two or three stages of his narration, the demands of strict chronological
succession; but if so, it has been to describe some of the more important events of the reign
in their totality. He has also felt it necessary, as writing for English readers of a country
not their own, to combine a portion of history with his biography. If, at the same time, he
has ventured to infuse into both biography and history a slight admixture of philosophy, he
can only hope that the fusion will not prove altogether disagreeable.

II.

YOUTH

1859-1881

As the education of a prince, and the surroundings in which he is brought up, are usually different
from the education and surroundings of his subjects, it is not surprising if, at least during
some portion of his reign, and until he has graduated in the university of life, misunderstandings,
if nothing worse, should occur between them: indeed the wonder is that princes and people succeed
in living harmoniously together. They are separated by great gulfs both of sentiment and circumstance.
Bismarck is quoted by one of his successors, Prince Hohenlohe, as remarking that every King
of Prussia, with whatever popularity he began his reign, was invariably hated at the close of it.

The prince that would rule well has to study the science of government, itself a difficult
and incompletely explored subject, and the art of administration; he has to know history, and
above all the history of his own country; not that history is a safe or certain guide, but
that it informs him of traditions he will be expected to continue in his own country and respect
in that of others; he must understand the political system under which his people choose to
live, and the play of political, religious, economic, and social forces which are ever at work
in a community; he must learn to speak and understand (not always quite the same thing) other
languages besides his own; and concurrently with these studies he must endeavour to develop
in himself the personal qualities demanded by his high office--health and activity of body,
quick comprehension and decision, a tenacious memory for names and faces, capacity for public
speaking, patience, and that command over the passions and prejudices, natural or acquired,
which is necessary for his moral influence as a ruler. On what percentage of his subjects is
such a curriculum imposed, and what allowances should not be made if a full measure of success
is not achieved?

But even when the prince has done all this, there is still a study, the most comprehensive
and most important of all, in which he should be learned--the study of humanity, and in especial
that part of it with the care of whose interests and happiness he is to be charged. A few people
seem to have this knowledge instinctively, others acquire something of it in the school of
sad experience. It is not the fault of the Emperor, if, in his youth, his knowledge of humanity
was not profound. There was always a strong vein of idealism and romance among Hohenzollerns,
the vein of a Lohengrin, a Tancred, or some mediæval knight. The Emperor, of course, never
lived among the common people; never had to work for a living in competition with a thousand
others more fortunate than he, or better endowed by nature with the qualities and gifts that
make for worldly success; never, so far as is known to a watchful and exceptionally curious
public, endured domestic sorrow of a deep or lasting kind; never suffered materially or in
his proper person from ingratitude, carelessness, or neglect; never knew the "penalty of Adam,
the seasons' difference"; never, in short, felt those pains one or more of which almost all
the rest of mankind have at one time or other to bear as best they may.

The Emperor has always been happy in his family, happy in seeing his country prosperous, happy
in the admiration and respect of the people of all nations; and if he has passed through some
dark hours, he must feel happy in having nobly borne them. Want of knowledge of the trials
of ordinary humanity is, of course, no matter of reproach to him; on the contrary, it is matter
of congratulation; and, as several of his frankest deliverances show, he has, both as man and
monarch, felt many a pang, many a regret, many a disappointment, the intensity of which cannot
be gauged by those who have not felt the weight of his responsibilities.

A discharge of 101 guns in the gardens of Crown Prince Frederick's palace in Berlin on the
morning of January 27, 1859, announced the birth of the future Emperor. There were no portents
in that hour. Nature proceeded calmly with her ordinary tasks. Heaven gave no special sign
that a new member of the Hohenzollern family had appeared on the planet Earth. Nothing, in
short, occurred to strengthen the faith of those who believe in the doctrine of kingship by
divine appointment.

It was a time of political and social turmoil in many countries, the groundswell, doubtless,
of the revolutionary wave of 1848. The Crimean War, the Indian Mutiny, and the war with China
had kept England in a continual state of martial fever, and the agitation for electoral reform
was beginning. Lord Palmerston was Prime Minister, with Lord Odo Russell as Minister for Foreign
Affairs and Mr. Gladstone as Minister of Finance. Napoleon III was at war with Austria as the
ally of Italy, where King Emmanuel II and Cavour were laying the foundations of their country's
unity. Russia, after defeating Schamyl, the hero of the Caucasus, was pursuing her policy of
penetration in Central Asia.

In Prussia the unrest was chiefly domestic. The country, while nominally a Great Power, was
neutral during the Crimean War, and played for the moment but a small part in foreign politics.
Bismarck, in his "Gedanke und Erinnerungen," compares her submission to Austria to the patience
of the French noble-man he heard of when minister in Paris, whose conduct in condoning twenty-four
acts of flagrant infidelity on the part of his wife was regarded by the French as an act of
great forbearance and magnanimity. Prince William, the Emperor's grandfather, afterwards William
I, first German Emperor, was on the throne, acting as Prince Regent for his brother, Frederick
William IV, incapacitated from ruling by an affection of the brain. The head of the Prussian
Ministry, Manteuffel, had been dismissed, and a "new era," with ministers of more liberal tendencies,
among them von Bethmann Hollweg, an ancestor of the present Chancellor, had begun. General
von Roon was Minister of War and Marine, offices at that time united in one department. The
Italian War had roused Germany anew to a desire for union, and a great "national society" was
founded at Frankfurt, with the Liberal leader, Rudolf von Bennigsen, at its head. Public attention
was occupied with the subject of reorganizing the army and increasing it from 150,000 to 210,000
men. Parliament was on the eve of a bitter constitutional quarrel with Bismarck, who became
Prussian Prime Minister (Minister President) in 1862, about the grant of the necessary army
funds. Most of the great intellects of Germany--Kant, Goethe, Schiller, Hegel, Fichte, Schleiermacher--had
long passed away. Heinrich Heine died in Paris in 1856. Frederick Nietzsche was a youth, Richard
Wagner's "Tannhäuser" had just been greeted, in the presence of the composer, with a storm
of hisses in the Opera house at Paris. The social condition of Germany may be partially realized
if one remembers that the death-rate was over 28 per mille, as compared with 17 per mille to-day;
that only a start had been made with railway construction; that the country, with its not very
generous soil, depended wholly upon agriculture; that savings-bank deposits were not one-twelfth
of what they are now; that there were 60 training schools where there are 221 to-day, and 338
evening classes as against 4,588 in 1910; that many of the principal towns were still lighted
by oil; that there was practically no navy; and that the bulk of the aristocracy lived on about
the same scale as the contemporary English yeoman farmer. Berlin contained a little less than
half a million inhabitants, compared with its three and a half millions of to-day, and the
state of its sanitation may be imagined from the fact that open drains ran down the streets.

The Emperor's father, Frederick III, second German Emperor, was affectionately known to his
people as "unser Fritz," because of his liberal sympathies and of his high and kindly character.
To most Englishmen he is perhaps better known as the husband of the Princess, afterwards Empress,
Adelaide Victoria, eldest daughter of Queen Victoria, and mother of the Emperor. Frederick
III had no great share in the political events which were the birth-pangs of modern Germany,
unless his not particularly distinguished leadership in the war of 1866 and that with France
be so considered. The greater part of his life was passed as Crown Prince, and a Crown Prince
in Germany leads a life more or less removed from political responsibilities. He succeeded
his father, William I, on the latter's death, March 9, 1888, reigned for ninety-nine days,
and died, on June 15th following, from cancer of the throat, after an illness borne with exemplary
fortitude.

To what extent the character of his parents affected the character of the Emperor it is impossible
to determine. The Emperor seldom refers to his parents in his speeches, and reserves most of
his panegyric for his grandfather and his grandfather's mother, Queen Louise; but the comparative
neglect is probably due to no want of filial admiration and respect, while the frequent references
to his grandfather in particular are explained by the great share the latter took in the formation
of the Empire and by his unbounded popularity. The Crown Prince was an affectionate but not
an easy-going father, with a passion for the arts and sciences; his mother also was a disciplinarian,
and, equally with her husband, passionately fond of art; and it is therefore not improbable
that these traits descended to the Emperor. As to whether the alleged "liberality" of the Crown
Prince descended to him depends on the sense given to the word "liberal." If it is taken to
mean an ardent desire for the good and happiness of the people, it did; if it is taken to mean
any inclination to give the people authority to govern themselves and direct their own destinies,
it did not.

The mother of the Emperor, the Empress Frederick, had much of Queen Victoria's good sense and
still more of her strong will. A thoroughly English princess, she had, in German eyes, one
serious defect: she failed to see, or at least to acknowledge, the superiority of most things
German to most things English. She had an English nurse, Emma Hobbs, to assist at the birth
of the future Emperor. She made English the language of the family life, and never lost her
English tastes and sympathies; consequently she was called, always with an accent of reproach,
"the Engländerin," and in German writings is represented as having wished to anglicize not
only her husband, her children, and her Court, but also her adopted country and its people.
A chaplain of the English Church in Berlin, the Rev. J.H. Fry, who met her many times, describes
her as follows:--

     "She was not the wife for a German Emperor, she so English
     and insisted so strongly on her English ways. The result was
     that she was very unpopular in Germany, and the Germans said
     many wicked things of her. She hated Berlin, and if her son,
     the present Emperor, had not required that she should come
     to the capital every winter, she would have lived altogether
     at Cronberg in the villa an Italian friend bequeathed to
     her.

     "She was extremely musical, had extensively cultivated her
     talents in this respect, and was an accomplished linguist.
     Like her mother, Queen Victoria, she was unusually
     strong-minded, and was always believed to rule over her
     amiable and gentle husband. Her interest in the English
     community was great, another reason for the dislike with
     which the Germans regarded her. To her the community owes
     the pretty little English church in the Mon Bijou Platz
     (Berlin), which she used to attend regularly, and where a
     funeral service, at which the Emperor was present, was held
     in memory of her.

     "German feeling was further embittered against her by the
     Morell Mackenzie incident, and to this day controversy rages
     round the famous English surgeon's name. The controversy is
     as to whether or not Morell Mackenzie honestly believed what
     he said when he diagnosed the Emperor's illness as
     non-cancerous in opposition to the opinion of distinguished
     German doctors like Professor Bergmann. Under German law no
     one can mount the throne of Prussia who is afflicted with a
     mortal sickness. For long it had been suspected that the
     Emperor's throat was fatally affected, and, therefore, when
     King William was dying, it became of dynastic and national
     importance to establish the fact one way or other. Queen
     Victoria was ardently desirous of seeing her daughter an
     Empress, and sent Sir Morrell Mackenzie to Germany to
     examine the royal patient. On the verdict being given that
     the disease was not cancer, the Crown Prince mounted the
     throne, and Queen Victoria's ambition for her daughter was
     realized.

     "The Empress also put the aristocracy against her by
     introducing several relaxations into Court etiquette which
     had up to her time been stiff and formal. Her relations with
     Bismarck, as is well known, were for many years strained,
     and on one occasion she made the remark that the tears he
     had caused her to shed 'would fill tumblers.' On the whole
     she was an excellent wife and mother. She was no doubt in
     some degree responsible for the admiration of England as a
     country and of the English as a people which is a marked
     feature of the Emperor's character."

This account is fairly correct in its estimation of the Empress Frederick's character and abilities,
but it repeats a popular error in saying that German law lays down that no one can mount the
Prussian throne if he is afflicted with a mortal sickness. There is no "German law" on the
subject, and the law intended to be referred to is the so-called "house-law," which, as in
the case of other German noble families, regulates the domestic concerns of the House of Hohenzollern.
Bismarck disposes of the assertion that a Hohenzollern prince mortally stricken is not capable
of succession as a "fable," and adds that the Constitution, too, contains no stipulation of
the sort. The influence of his mother on the Emperor's character did not extend beyond his
childhood, while probably the only natural dispositions he inherited from her were his strength
of will and his appreciation of classical art and music. Many of her political ideas were diametrically
opposed to those of her son. Her love of art made her pro-French, and her visit to Paris, it
will be remembered, not being made incognito, led to international unpleasantness, originating
in the foolish Chauvinism of some leading French painters whose ateliers she desired to inspect.
She believed in a homogeneous German Empire without any federation of kingdoms and states,
advocated a Constitution for Russia, and was satisfied that the common sense of a people outweighed
its ignorance and stupidity.

The Emperor has four sisters and a brother. The sisters are Charlotte, born in 1860, and married
to the Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Meiningen; Victoria, born in 1866, and married to Prince Adolphus
of Schaumberg-Lippe; Sophie, born in 1870, and married to King Constantine, of Greece; and
Margarete, born in 1872, and married to Prince Friederich Karl of Hessen.

The Emperor's only brother, Prince Henry of Prussia, was born in 1862, and is married to Princess
Irene of Hessen. He is probably the most popular Hohenzollern to-day. He adopted the navy as
a profession and devotes himself to its duties, taking no part in politics. Like the Emperor
himself and the Emperor's heir, the Crown Prince, he is a great promoter of sport, and while
a fair golfer (with a handicap of 14) and tennis player, gives much of his leisure to the encouragement
of the automobile and other industries. Every Hohenzollern is supposed to learn a handicraft.
The Emperor did not, owing to his shortened left arm. Prince Henry learned book-binding under
a leading Berlin bookbinder, Herr Collin. The Crown Prince is a turner. Prince Henry seems
perfectly satisfied with his position in the Empire as Inspector-General of the Fleet, stands
to attention when talking to the Emperor in public, and on formal occasions addresses him as
"Majesty" like every one else. Only in private conversation does he allow himself the use of
the familiar Du. The Emperor has a strong affection for him, and always calls him "Heinrich."

Many stories are current in Germany relating to the early part of the Emperor's boyhood. Some
are true, others partially so, while others again are wholly apochryphal. All, however, are
more or less characteristic of the boy and his surroundings, and for this reason a selection
of them may be given. Apropos of his birth, the following story is told. An artillery officer
went to receive orders for the salute to be discharged when the birth occurred. They were given
him by the then Prince Regent, afterwards Emperor William I. The officer showed signs of perplexity.
"Well, is there anything else?" inquired the Regent. "Yes, Royal Highness; I have instructions
for the birth of a prince and for that of a princess (which would be 30 guns); but what if
it should be twins?" The Regent laughed. "In that case," he said, "follow the Prussian rule--suum
cuique."

When the child was born the news ran like wildfire through Berlin, and all the high civil and
military officials drove off in any vehicle they could find to offer their congratulations.
The Regent, who was at the Foreign Office, jumped into a common cab. Immediately after him
appeared tough old Field-Marshal Wrangel, the hero of the Danish wars. He wrote his name in
the callers' book, and on issuing from the palace shouted to the assembled crowd, "Children,
it's all right: a fine stout recruit." On the evening of the birth a telegram came from Queen
Victoria, "Is it a fine boy?" and the answer went back, "Yes, a very fine boy."

Another story describes how the child was brought to submit cheerfully to the ordeal of the
tub. He was "water-shy," like the vast majority of Germans at that time, and the nurses had
to complain to his father, Crown Prince Frederick, of his resistance. The Crown Prince thereupon
directed the sentry at the palace gate not to salute the boy when he was taken out for his
customary airing. The boy remarked the neglect and complained to his father, who explained
that "sentries were not allowed to present arms to an unwashed prince." The stratagem succeeded,
and thereafter the lad submitted to the bathing with a good grace.

Like all boys, the lad was fond of the water, though now in another sense. At the age of two,
nursery chroniclers relate, he had a toy boat, the Fortuna, in which he sat and see-sawed--and
learned not to be sea-sick! At three he was put into sailor's costume, with the bell-shaped
trousers so dear to the hearts of English mothers fifty years ago.

At the age of four he had a memorable experience, though it is hardly likely that now, after
the lapse of half a century, he remembers much about it. This was his first visit to England
in 1863, when he was taken by his parents to be present at the marriage of his uncle, King
Edward VII, then Prince of Wales. The boy, in pretty Highland costume, was an object of general
attention, and occupies a prominent place in the well-known picture of the wedding scene by
the artist Frith. The ensuing fifteen years saw him often on English soil with his father and
mother, staying usually at Osborne Castle, in the Isle of Wight. Here, it may be assumed, he
first came in close contact with the ocean, watched the English warships passing up and down,
and imbibed some of that delight in the sea which is not the least part of the heritage of
Englishmen. The visits had a decided effect on him, for at ten we find him with a row-boat
on the Havel and learning to swim, and on one occasion rowing a distance of twenty-five miles
between 6 a.m. and 3 p.m. About this time he used to take part with his parents in excursions
on the Royal Louise, a miniature frigate presented by George IV to Frederick William III.

Still another story concerns the boy and his father. The former came one day in much excitement
to his tutor and said his father had just blamed him unjustly. He told the tutor what had really
happened and asked him, if, under the circumstances, he was to blame. The tutor was in perplexity,
for if he said the father had acted unjustly, as in fact he thought he had, he might lessen
the son's filial respect. However, he gave his candid opinion. "My Prince," he said, "the greatest
men of all times have occasionally made mistakes, for to err is human. I must admit I think
your father was in the wrong." "Really!" cried the lad, who looked pained. "I thought you would
tell me I was in the wrong, and as I know how right you always are I was ready to go to papa
and beg his pardon. What shall I do now?" "Leave it to me," the tutor said, and afterwards
told the Crown Prince what had passed. The Crown Prince sent for his son, who came and stood
with downcast eyes some paces off. The Crown Prince only uttered the two words, "My son," but
in a tone of great affection. As he folded the Prince in his arms he reached his hand to the
tutor, saying, "I thank you. Be always as true to me and to my son as you have been in this case."

The last anecdote belongs also to the young Prince's private tutor days. At one time a certain
Dr. D. was teaching him. Every morning at eleven work was dropped for a quarter of an hour
to enable the pair, teacher and pupil, to take what is called in German "second breakfast."
The Prince always had a piece of white bread and butter, with an apple, a pear, or other fruit,
while the teacher was as regularly provided with something warm--chop, a cutlet, a slice of
fish, salmon, perch, trout, or whatever was in season, accompanied by salad and potatoes. The
smell of the meat never failed to appeal to the olfactory nerves of the Prince, and he often
looked, longingly enough, at the luxuries served to his tutor. The latter noticed it and felt
sorry for him; but there was nothing to be done: the royal orders were strict and could not
be disobeyed. One day, however, the lesson, one of repetition, had gone so well that in a moment
of gratitude the tutor decided to reward his pupil at all hazards. The lunch appeared, steaming
"perch-in-butter" for the tutor, and a plate of bread and butter and some grapes for the pupil.
The Prince cast a glance at the savoury dish and was then about to attack his frugal fare when
the tutor suddenly said, "Prince, I'm very fond of grapes. Can't we for once exchange? You
eat my perch and I--" The Prince joyfully agreed, plates were exchanged, and both were heartily
enjoying the meal when the Crown Prince walked in. Both pupil and tutor blushed a little, but
the Crown Prince said nothing and seemed pleased to hear how well the lesson had gone that
day. At noon, however, as the tutor was leaving the palace, a servant stopped him and said,
"His Royal Highness the Crown Prince would like to speak with the Herr Doktor."

"Herr Doktor," said the Crown Prince, "tell me how it was that the Prince to-day was eating
the warm breakfast and you the cold."

The tutor tried to make as little of the affair as possible. It was a joke, he said, he had
allowed himself, he had been so well pleased with his pupil that morning.

"Well, I will pass it over this time," said the Crown Prince,

     "but I must ask you to let the Prince get accustomed to bear
     the preference shown to his tutor and allow him to be
     satisfied with the simple food suitable for his age. What
     will he eat twenty years hence, if he now gets roast meat?
     Bread and fruit make a wholesome and perfectly satisfactory
     meal for a lad of his years."

During second breakfast next day, the Prince took care not to look up from his plate of fruit,
but when he had finished, murmured as though by way of grace, "After all, a fine bunch of grapes
is a splendid lunch, and I really think I prefer it, Herr Doktor, to your nice-smelling perch-in-butter."

The time had now come when the young Prince was to leave the paternal castle and submit to
the discipline of school. The parents, one may be sure, held many a conference on the subject.
The boy was beginning to have a character of his own, and his parents doubtless often had in
mind Goethe's lines:--

     "Denn wir können die Kinder nach unserem Willen nicht formen,
     So wie Gott sie uns gab, so muss man sie lieben und haben,
     Sie erzielen aufs best und jeglichen lassen gewähren."

     ("We cannot have children according to our will:
     as God gave them so must we love and keep them:
     bring them up as best we can and leave each to its own
       development.")

