THE ENGLISH UTILITARIANS

by

LESLIE STEPHEN

In Three Volumes

VOL. II

JAMES MILL

London Duckworth And Co. 3 Henrietta Street, W.C. 1900

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

JAMES MILL

                                      PAGE

  I. Early Life,                         1

 II. Bentham's Lieutenant,               7

III. Leader of the Utilitarians,        25

CHAPTER II

REFORM MOVEMENTS

  I. Political Change,                  41

 II. Law Reform,                        47

III. Economic Reform,                   51

 IV. Church Reform,                     57

  V. Sinister Interests,                62

CHAPTER III

POLITICAL THEORY

  I. Mill on Government,                74

 II. Whiggism,                          98

III. Conservatism,                     109

 IV. Socialism,                        119

CHAPTER IV

MALTHUS

  I. Malthus's Starting-point,         137

 II. The Ratios,                       147

III. Moral Restraint,                  156

 IV. Social Remedies,                  165

  V. Political Application,            174

 VI. Rent,                             181

CHAPTER V

RICARDO

  I. Ricardo's Starting-point,         186

 II. The Distribution Problem,         195

III. Value and Labour,                 204

 IV. The Classical Political Economy,  216

  V. The Ricardians,                   226

CHAPTER VI

ECONOMIC HERETICS

  I. The Malthusian Controversy,       238

 II. Socialism,                        259

CHAPTER VII

PSYCHOLOGY

  I. Thomas Brown,                     267

 II. James Mill's Analysis,          287

III. James Mill's Ethics,              312

CHAPTER VIII

RELIGION

  I. Philip Beauchamp,                 338

 II. Contemporary Thought,             361

CHAPTER I

JAMES MILL

I. EARLY LIFE

Bentham's mantle fell upon James Mill.[1] Mill expounded in the tersest form the doctrines
which in Bentham's hands spread into endless ramifications and lost themselves in minute details.
Mill became the leader of Bentham's bodyguard; or, rather, the mediator between the prophet
in his 'hermitage' and the missionaries who were actively engaged on the hustings and in committee-rooms.
The special characteristics of English Utilitarianism in the period of its greatest activity
were thus more affected by Mill than by any other leader of opinion.

James Mill was one of the countless Scots who, having been trained at home in strict frugality
and stern Puritanic principles, have fought their way to success in England. He was born 6th
April 1773 in the parish of Logie Pert, Forfarshire. His father, also named James Mill, was
a village shoemaker, employing two or three journeymen when at the height of his prosperity.
His mother, Isabel Fenton, daughter of a farmer, had been a servant in Edinburgh. Her family
had some claims to superior gentility; she was fastidious, delicate in frame, and accused of
pride by her neighbours. She resolved to bring up James, her eldest son, to be a gentleman,
which practically meant to be a minister. He probably showed early promise of intellectual
superiority. He received the usual training at the parish school, and was then sent to the
Montrose Academy, where he was the school-fellow and friend of a younger lad, Joseph Hume (1777-1855),
afterwards his political ally. He boarded with a Montrose shopkeeper for 2s. 6d. a week, and
remained at the Academy till he was seventeen. He was never put to work in his father's shop,
and devoted himself entirely to study. The usual age for beginning to attend a Scottish university
was thirteen or fourteen; and it would have been the normal course for a lad in Mill's position
to be sent at that age to Aberdeen. Mill's education was prolonged by a connection which was
of great service to him. Sir John Stuart (previously Belches), of Fettercairn House, in Mill's
neighbourhood, had married Lady Jane Leslie, and was by her father of an only child, Wilhelmina.
Lady Jane was given to charity, and had set up a fund to educate promising lads for the ministry.
Mill was probably recommended to her by the parish minister, as likely to do credit to her
patronage. He also acted as tutor to Wilhelmina, who afterwards became the object of Scott's
early passion. Mill spent much time at Fettercairn House, and appears to have won the warm
regards both of the Stuarts and of their daughter, who spoke of him affectionately 'with almost
her last breath.'[2] The Stuarts passed their winters at Edinburgh, whither Mill accompanied
them. He entered the university in 1790, and seems to have applied himself chiefly to Greek
and to philosophy. He became so good a Greek scholar that long afterwards (1818) he had some
thoughts of standing for the Greek chair at Glasgow.[3] He was always a keen student of Plato.
He read the ordinary Scottish authorities, and attended the lectures of Dugald Stewart. Besides
reading Rousseau, he studied Massillon, probably with a view to his future performances in
the pulpit. Massillon might be suggested to him by quotations in Adam Smith's Moral Sentiments.
There are few records of acquaintanceship with any of his distinguished contemporaries, except
the chemist Thomas Thomson, who became a lifelong friend. He probably made acquaintance with
Brougham, and may have known Jeffrey; but he was not a member of the Speculative Society, joined
by most young men of promise.

In 1794 he began his course of divinity, and on 4th October 1798 was licensed to preach. He
lived in his father's house, where part of the family room was screened off to form a study
for him. He delivered some sermons, apparently with little success. He failed to obtain a call
from any parish; and there are vague reports of his acting as tutor in some families, and of
a rebuff received at the table of the marquis of Tweeddale, father of one of his pupils, which
made him resolve to seek for independence by a different career.

In 1802 Mill went to London in company with Sir John Stuart, who was about to take his seat
in parliament. Stuart procured admission for him to the gallery of the House of Commons, where
he attended many debates, and acquired an interest in politics. His ambition, however, depended
upon his pen; and at first, it would seem, he was not more particular than other journalists
as to the politics of the papers to which he contributed. He had obtained a testimonial from
Thomson, on the strength of which he introduced himself to John Gifford, editor of the Anti-Jacobin
Review.[4] This was a monthly magazine, which had adopted the name and politics of the deceased
Anti-Jacobin, edited by William Gifford. Mill obtained employment, and wrote articles implying
an interest in the philosophy, and especially in the political economy, of the time. It is
noteworthy, considering his later principles, that he should at this time have taken part in
a strong Tory organ. He wrote a pamphlet in 1804 (the first publication under his name) to
prove the impolicy of a bounty upon the exportation of grain; and in 1807 replied in Commerce
Defended to William Spence's Britain independent of Commerce. Meanwhile he had found employment
of a more regular kind. He had formed a connection with a bookseller named Baldwin, for whom
he undertook to help in rewriting a book called Nature Delineated. This scheme was changed
for a periodical called the Literary Journal, which started at the beginning of 1803, and lived
through four years with Mill as editor. At the same time apparently he edited the St. James's
Chronicle, also belonging to Baldwin, which had no very definite political colour. The Journal
professed to give a systematic survey of literary, scientific, and philosophical publications.
For the scientific part Mill was helped by Thomson. His own contributions show that, although
clearly a rationalist, he was still opposed to open infidelity. A translation of Villers' History
of the Reformation implies similar tendencies. Other literary hack-work during this and the
next few years is vaguely indicated. Mill was making about £500 a year or something more during
his editorships, and thought himself justified in marrying. On 5th June 1805 he became the
husband of Harriett Burrow, daughter of a widow who kept a private lunatic asylum originally
started by her husband. The Mills settled in a house in Pentonville belonging to Mrs. Burrow,
for which they paid £50 a year.

The money question soon became pressing. The editorships vanished, and to make an income by
periodical writing was no easy task. His son observes that nothing could be more opposed to
his father's later principles than marrying and producing a large family under these circumstances.
Nine children were ultimately born, all of whom survived their father. The family in his old
home were an additional burthen. His mother died before his departure from Scotland. His father
was paralysed, and having incautiously given security for a friend, became bankrupt. His only
brother, William, died soon afterwards, and his only sister, Mary, married one of her father's
journeymen named Greig, and tried to carry on the business. The father died about 1808, and
the Greigs had a hard struggle, though two of the sons ultimately set up a business in Montrose.
James Mill appears to have helped to support his father, whose debts he undertook to pay, and
to have afterwards helped the Greigs. They thought, it seems, that he ought to have done more,
but were not unlikely to exaggerate the resources of a man who was making his way in England.
Mill was resolute in doing his duty, but hardly likely to do it graciously. At any rate, in
the early years, it must have been a severe strain to do anything.

In spite of all difficulties Mill, by strict frugality and unremitting energy, managed to keep
out of debt. In the end of 1806 he undertook the history of British India. This was to be the
great work which should give him a name, and enable him to rise above the herd of contemporary
journalists. He calculated the time necessary for its completion at three years, but the years
were to be more than trebled before the book was actually finished. At that period there were
fewer facilities than there could now be for making the necessary researches: and we do not
know what were the reasons which prompted the selection of a subject of which he could have
no first-hand knowledge. The book necessarily impeded other labours; and to the toil of writing
Mill added the toil of superintending the education of his children. His struggle for some
years was such as to require an extraordinary strain upon all his faculties. Mill, however,
possessed great physical and mental vigour. He was muscular, well-made, and handsome; he had
marked powers of conversation, and made a strong impression upon all with whom he came in contact.
He gradually formed connections which effectually determined his future career.

II. BENTHAM'S LIEUTENANT

The most important influence in Mill's life was the friendship with Bentham. This appears to
have begun in 1808. Mill speedily became a valued disciple. He used to walk from Pentonville
to dine with Bentham in Queen's Square Place. Soon the elder man desired to have his new friend
nearer at hand. In 1810 Mill moved to the house in Bentham's garden, which had once belonged
to Milton; when this proved unsuitable, he was obliged to move to a more distant abode at Stoke
Newington; but finally, in 1814, he settled in another house belonging to Bentham, 1 Queen's
Square, close under the old gentleman's wing. Here for some years they lived in the closest
intimacy. The Mills also stayed with Bentham in his country-houses at Barrow Green, and afterwards
at Ford Abbey. The association was not without its troubles. Bentham was fanciful, and Mill
stern and rigid. No one, however, could be a more devoted disciple. The most curious illustration
of their relations is a letter written to Bentham by Mill, 19th September 1814, while they
were both at Ford Abbey. Mill in this declares himself to be a 'most faithful and fervent disciple'
of the truths which Bentham had the 'immortal honour' of propounding. He had fancied himself
to be his master's favourite disciple. No one is so completely of Bentham's way of thinking,
or so qualified by position for carrying on the propaganda. Now, however, Bentham showed that
he had taken umbrage at some part of Mill's behaviour. An open quarrel would bring discredit
upon both sides, and upon their common beliefs. The great dangers to friendship are pecuniary
obligation and too close intimacy. Mill has made it a great purpose of his life to avoid pecuniary
obligation, though he took pride in receiving obligations from Bentham. He has confined himself
to accepting Bentham's house at a low rent, and allowing his family to live for part of the
year at Bentham's expense. He now proposes so to arrange his future life that they shall avoid
an excessively close intimacy, from which, he thinks, had arisen the 'umbrage.' The letter,
which is manly and straightforward, led to a reconciliation, and for some years the intercourse
was as close as ever.[5]

Mill's unreserved adoption of Bentham's principles, and his resolution to devote his life to
their propagation, implies a development of opinion. He had entirely dropped his theology.
In the early years of his London life, Mill had been only a rationalist. He had by this time
become what would now be called an agnostic. He thought 'dogmatic atheism' absurd, says J.
S. Mill;[6] 'but he held that we can know nothing whatever as to the origin of the world.'
The occasion of the change, according to his family, was his intercourse with General Miranda,
who was sitting at Bentham's feet about this time. J. S. Mill states that the turning-point
in his father's mind was the study of Butler's Analogy. That book, he thought, as others have
thought, was conclusive against the optimistic deism which it assails; but he thought also
that the argument really destroyed Butler's own standing-ground. The evils of the world are
incompatible with the theory of Almighty benevolence. The purely logical objection was combined
with an intense moral sentiment. Theological doctrines, he thought, were not only false, but
brutal. His son had heard him say 'a hundred times' that men have attributed to their gods
every trait of wickedness till the conception culminated in the Christian doctrine of hell.
Mill still attended church services for some time after his marriage, and the children were
christened. But the eldest son did not remember the period of even partial conformity, and
considered himself to have been brought up from the first without any religious belief. James
Mill had already taken up the uncompromising position congenial to his character, although
the reticence which the whole party observed prevented any open expression of his sentiments.

Mill's propaganda of Benthamism was for some time obscure. He helped to put together some of
Bentham's writings, especially the book upon evidence. He was consulted in regard to all proposed
publications, such as the pamphlet upon jury-packing, which Mill desired to publish in spite
of Romilly's warning. Mill endeavoured also to disseminate the true faith through various periodicals.
He obtained admission to the Edinburgh Review, probably through its chief contributor, Brougham.
Neither Brougham nor Jeffrey was likely to commit the great Whig review to the support of a
creed still militant and regarded with distrust by the respectable. Mill contributed various
articles from 1808 to 1813, but chiefly upon topics outside of the political sphere. The Edinburgh
Review, as I have said, had taken a condescending notice of Bentham in 1804. Mill tried to
introduce a better tone into an article upon Bexon's Code de la Législation pénale, which he
was permitted to publish in the number for October 1809. Knowing Jeffrey's 'dislike of praise,'
he tried to be on his guard, and to insinuate his master's doctrine without openly expressing
his enthusiasm. Jeffrey, however, sadly mangled the review, struck out every mention but one
of Bentham, and there substituted words of his own for Mill's. Even as it was, Brougham pronounced
the praise of Bentham to be excessive.[7] Mill continued to write for a time, partly, no doubt,
with a view to Jeffrey's cheques. Almost his last article (in January 1813) was devoted to
the Lancasterian controversy, in which Mill, as we shall directly see, was in alliance with
the Whigs. But the Edinburgh Reviewers were too distinctly of the Whig persuasion to be congenial
company for a determined Radical. They would give him no more than a secondary position, and
would then take good care to avoid the insertion of any suspicious doctrine. Mill wrote no
more after the summer of 1813.

Meanwhile he was finding more sympathetic allies. First among them was William Allen (1770-1843),
chemist, of Plough Court. Allen was a Quaker; a man of considerable scientific tastes; successful
in business, and ardently devoted throughout his life to many philanthropic schemes. He took,
in particular, an active part in the agitation against slavery. He was, as we have seen, one
of the partners who bought Owen's establishment at New Lanark; and his religious scruples were
afterwards the cause of Owen's retirement. These, however, were only a part of his multifarious
schemes. He was perhaps something of a busybody; his head may have been a little turned by
the attentions which he received on all hands; he managed the affairs of the duke of Kent;
was visited by the Emperor Alexander in 1814; and interviewed royal personages on the Continent,
in order to obtain their support in attacking the slave-trade, and introducing good schools
and prisons. But, though he may have shared some of the weaknesses of popular philanthropists,
he is mentioned with respect even by observers such as Owen and Place, who had many prejudices
against his principles. He undoubtedly deserves a place among the active and useful social
reformers of his time.

I have already noticed the importance of the Quaker share in the various philanthropic movements
of the time. The Quaker shared many of the views upon practical questions which were favoured
by the freethinker. Both were hostile to slavery, in favour of spreading education, opposed
to all religious tests and restrictions, and advocates of reform in prisons, and in the harsh
criminal law. The fundamental differences of theological belief were not so productive of discord
in dealing with the Quakers as with other sects; for it was the very essence of the old Quaker
spirit to look rather to the spirit than to the letter. Allen, therefore, was only acting in
the spirit of his society when he could be on equally good terms with the Emperor Alexander
or the duke of Kent, and, on the other hand, with James Mill, the denouncer of kings and autocrats.
He could join hands with Mill in assailing slavery, insisting upon prison reform, preaching
toleration and advancing civilisation, although he heartily disapproved of the doctrines with
which Mill's practical principles were associated. Mill, too, practised--even to a questionable
degree--the method of reticence, and took good care not to offend his coadjutor.

Their co-operation was manifested in a quarterly journal called the Philanthropist, which appeared
during the seven years, 1811-1817, and was published at Allen's expense. Mill found in it the
opportunity of advocating many of his cherished opinions. He defended toleration in the name
of Penn, whose life had been published by Clarkson. He attacked the slave-owners, and so came
into alliance with Wilberforce, Zachary Macaulay, and others of the evangelical persuasion.
He found, at the same time, opportunities for propagating the creed of Bentham in connection
with questions of prison reform and the penal code. His most important article, published in
1812, was another contribution to the Lancasterian controversy. In this Mill had allies of
a very different school; and his activity brings him into close connection with one of the
most remarkable men of the time.[8]

This was Francis Place, the famous Radical tailor. Place, born 3rd November 1771, had raised
himself from the position of a working-man to be occupant of a shop at Charing Cross, which
became the centre of important political movements. Between Place and Mill there was much affinity
of character. Place, like Mill, was a man of rigid and vigorous intellect. Dogmatic, self-confident,
and decidedly censorious, not attractive by any sweetness or grace of character, but thoroughly
sincere and independent, he extorts rather than commands our respect by his hearty devotion
to what he at least believed to be the cause of truth and progress. Place was what is now called
a thorough 'individualist.' He believed in self-reliance and energy, and held that the class
to which he belonged was to be raised, as he had raised himself, by the exercise of those qualities,
not by invoking the direct interference of the central power, which, indeed, as he knew it,
was only likely to interfere on the wrong side. He had the misfortune to be born in London
instead of Scotland, and had therefore not Mill's educational advantages. He tried energetically,
and not unsuccessfully, to improve his mind, but he never quite surmounted the weakness of
the self-educated man, and had no special literary talent. His writing, in fact, is dull and
long-winded, though he has the merit of judging for himself, and of saying what he thinks.

Place had been a member of the Corresponding Society, and was at one time chairman of the weekly
committee. He had, however, disapproved of their proceedings, and retired in time to escape
the imprisonment which finally crushed the committee. He was now occupied in building up his
own fortunes at Charing Cross. When, during the second war, the native English Radicalism began
again to raise its head, Place took a highly important share in the political agitation. Westminster,
the constituency in which he had a vote, had long been one of the most important boroughs.
It was one of the few large popular constituencies, and was affected by the influences naturally
strongest in the metropolis. After being long under the influence of the court and the dean
and chapter, it had been carried by Fox during the discontents of 1780, when the reform movement
took a start and the county associations were symptoms of a growing agitation. The great Whig
leader, though not sound upon the question of reform, represented the constituency till his
death, and reform dropped out of notice for the time. Upon Fox's death (13th September 1806)
Lord Percy was elected without opposition as his successor by an arrangement among the ruling
families. Place was disgusted at the distribution of 'bread and cheese and beer,' and resolved
to find a truly popular candidate. In the general election which soon followed at the end of
1806 he supported Paull, an impecunious adventurer, who made a good fight, but was beaten by
Sir J. Hood and Sheridan. Place now proposed a more thorough organisation of the constituency,
and formed a committee intended to carry an independent candidate. Sir Francis Burdett, a typical
country gentleman of no great brains and of much aristocratic pride, but a man of honour, and
of as much liberal feeling as was compatible with wealth and station, had sat at the feet of
the old Radical, Home Tooke. He had sympathised with the French revolution; but was mainly,
like his mentor, Tooke, a reformer of the English type, and a believer in Magna Charta and
the Bill of Rights. He had sat in parliament, and in 1802 had been elected for Middlesex. After
a prolonged litigation, costing enormous sums, the election had been finally annulled in 1806.
He had subscribed £1000 towards Paull's expenses; but was so disgusted with his own election
experiences that he refused to come forward as a candidate. Place's committee resolved therefore
to elect him and Paull free of expense. Disputes between Paull and Burdett led to a duel, in
which both were wounded. The committee threw over Paull, and at the election on the dissolution
of parliament in the spring of 1807, Burdett and Cochrane--afterwards Lord Dundonald--were
triumphantly elected, defeating the Whig candidates, Sheridan and Elliot. The election was
the first triumph of the reformers, and was due to Place more than any one. Burdett retained
his seat for Westminster until 1837, and, in spite of many quarrels with his party, was a leading
representative of the movement, which henceforward slowly gathered strength. Place, indeed,
had apparently but scanty respect for the candidate whose success he had secured. Burdett and
his like aimed at popularity, while he was content to be ignored so long as he could by any
means carry the measures which he approved. Place, therefore, acted as a most efficient wire-puller,
but had no ambition to leave his shop to make speeches on the hustings.

The scandals about the duke of York and the Walcheren expedition gave a chance to the Radicals
and to their leader in the House of Commons. Events in 1810 led to a popular explosion, of
which Burdett was the hero. John Gale Jones, an old member of the Corresponding Societies,
had put out a placard denouncing the House of Commons for closing its doors during a debate
upon the Walcheren expedition. The House proceeded against Jones, who was more or less advised
by Place in his proceedings. Burdett took the part of Jones, by a paper published in Cobbett's
Register, and was ultimately committed to the Tower in consequence. The whole of London was
for a time in a state of excitement, and upon the verge of an outbreak. Burdett refused to
submit to the arrest. Mobs collected; soldiers filled the streets and were pelted. Burdett,
when at last he was forced to admit the officers, appeared in his drawing-room in the act of
expounding Magna Charta to his son. That, it was to be supposed, was his usual occupation of
an afternoon. Meetings were held, and resolutions passed, in support of the martyr to liberty;
and when his imprisonment terminated on the prorogation of parliament, vast crowds collected,
and a procession was arranged to convoy him to his home. Place had been active in arranging
all the details of what was to be a great popular manifestation. To his infinite disgust, Burdett
shrank from the performance, and went home by water. The crowd was left to expend its remaining
enthusiasm upon the hackney carriage which contained his fellow-sufferer Jones. Jones, in the
following December, was sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment for a libel. Cobbett, Burdett's
special supporter at this time, was also imprisoned in June 1810. For a time the popular agitation
collapsed. Place seems to have thought that the failure was due to Burdett's want of courage,
and dropped all communication with him till a later contest at Westminster.

Place was thus at the centre of the political agitation which, for the time, represented the
most energetic reforming movement. It was in 1811 or 1812 that he became acquainted with Mill.[9]
In Mill he recognised a congenial spirit, and a man able to defend and develop principles.
He perhaps, as Professor Bain thinks, made advances to Mill upon the strength of the history
of India; and in 1814 he was certainly endeavouring to raise money to put Mill above the need
of precarious hack-work.[10] The anticipated difficulty of persuading Mill so far to sacrifice
his independence was apparently fatal to the scheme. Place was in occasional communication
with Bentham, and visited him at Ford Abbey in 1817. He became intimate with the great man;
helped him in business affairs; and was one of the disciples employed to prepare his books
for publication.[11] Bentham was the source of philosophy, and Mill only his prophet. But Mill,
who was capable of activity in practical affairs, was more useful to a man of the world. The
first business which brought them into close connection was the Lancasterian controversy. The
strong interest roused by this agitation was significant of many difficulties to come. The
average mind had been gradually coming to the conclusion that the poor should be taught to
read and write. Sunday schools and Hannah More's schools in Somersetshire had drawn the attention
of the religious world to the subject. During the early years of the century the education
question had steadily become more prominent, and the growing interest was shown by a singularly
bitter and complicated controversy. The opposite parties fought under the banners of Bell and
Lancaster. Andrew Bell, born at St. Andrews, 27th March 1753, was both a canny Scot and an
Anglican clergyman. He combined philanthropy with business faculties. He sailed to India in
1787 with £128, 10s. in his pocket to be an army chaplain; he returned in 1796 with £25,000
and a new system of education which he had devised as superintendent of an orphan asylum. He
settled in England, published an account of his plan, and did something to bring it into operation.
Meanwhile Joseph Lancaster (1770-1838), a young Quaker, had set up a school in London; he devised
a plan similar to that of Bell, and in 1803 published an account of his improvements in education
with acknowledgments to Bell. For a time the two were on friendly terms. Lancaster set about
propagating his new system with more enthusiasm than discretion. His fame rapidly spread till
it reached the throne. In 1805 George III. sent for him; the royal family subscribed to his
schools; and the king declared his wish that every child in his dominions should be taught
to read the Bible. The king's gracious wish unconsciously indicated a difficulty. Was it safe
to teach the Bible without the safeguard of authorised interpretation? Orthodox opponents feared
the alliance with a man whose first principle was toleration, and first among them was the
excellent Mrs. Trimmer, who had been already engaged in the Sunday-school movement. She pointed
out in a pamphlet that the schismatic Lancaster was weakening the Established Church. The Edinburgh
Review came to his support in 1806 and 1807; for the Whig, especially if he was also a Scot,
was prejudiced against the Church of England. Lancaster went on his way, but soon got into
difficulties, for he was impetuous, careless of money, and autocratic. William Allen, with
another Quaker, came to his support in 1808, and founded the Royal Lancasterian Society to
maintain his school in the Borough Road, and propagate its like elsewhere. Lancaster travelled
through the country, and the agitation prospered, and spread even to America. The church, however,
was now fairly aroused. Bishop Marsh preached a sermon in St.