Cut off the stem end of green bell peppers. Mince cooked chicken or use a can of shrimps, and
mix with it almost an equal weight of bread crumbs, a large lump of butter, two or three tablespoonfuls
of cream, salt and a sprinkle of parsley. Fill the pepper shells with the mixture, sprinkle
bread crumbs over the tops, dot with butter, and brown in the oven.

OAKLAND STUFFED PEPPERS.

Cut off the tops and scoop out the seeds of six peppers, chop an extra pepper without seeds,
mix with it a small onion chopped, a cupful of chopped tomato, two tablespoonfuls of butter
or salad oil, a teaspoonful of salt, and an equal measure of bread crumbs. Stuff the peppers,
replace the stem ends, and bake the peppers for half an hour, basting them with butter or salad
oil two or three times. Serve them hot as a vegetable.

BROWNED MASHED POTATOES.

Whip up mashed potatoes with an egg-beater, add a few tablespoonfuls of cream, the yolks of
two eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper and salt. Cover with the whipped whites of the
two eggs, bake until browned and with a pancake knife transfer them to a hot dish and serve
at once.

POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE.

Use twelve good sized potatoes, mash, add pepper, salt, milk and butter. Make a cup of drawn
butter, (milk, butter and a very little corn starch as thickening, with pepper and salt) into
it stir two beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Put a layer of potatoes on
a pie tin, cover with a thin layer of the drawn butter sauce, cover this in turn with more
potato and repeat until there is a mound, cover with the sauce, strew thickly with cheese and
brown in a quick oven.

LYONNAISE POTATOES.

Put a large lump of butter in a saucepan and let it melt; then add one small onion chopped
fine or sliced thin, when it is nicely browned but not scorched, put in slices of cold boiled
potatoes, salt and pepper and cook until well browned. Just before taking up add a teaspoonful
of parsley.

POTATO PANCAKES.

Grate eight large pared potatoes, add to them one and one half-teacupfuls of milk, the beaten
yolks of two or three eggs, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, pepper, salt, enough flour
to make a batter, and lastly add the whites of two or three eggs beaten stiff. Add a heaping
teaspoonful of baking powder if only one egg is used. Fry in butter or drippings to a rich brown.

RINGED POTATOES.

Peel large potatoes, cut them round and round as one pares an apple, fry in clean, sweet, very
hot lard until brown; drain on a sieve, sprinkle salt over them and serve.

POTATO TURNOVERS.

Use ten tablespoonfuls of whipped mashed potatoes with a little salt added gradually, six tablespoonfuls
of flour and three tablespoonfuls of butter. When thoroughly mixed lay the mass upon a floured
board and roll out about an inch thick, cut in circles with a small bowl, lay upon each circle
minced meat, poultry or fish. Season the meat, wet the edges of the circle with beaten egg
and close each one like a turnover, pinch them around the edges and fry to a light brown, or
brush them with egg and brown them in the oven.

POTATO SOUFFLE.

Choose large, smooth, handsome, uniform potatoes, allow an extra potato for any waste. Bake
and with a very sharp knife cut them in two lengthwise. Remove the inside, season with butter,
cream, pepper and salt and fill the potato skins with the mixture; glaze them with the beaten
whites of eggs and over the top spread the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Brown in
the oven.

POTATO SOUP.

Use the water in which the potatoes were boiled, add three tablespoonfuls of mashed potato
to a pint of water, and as much rich milk as there is water used, season with salt and a dust
of cayenne pepper, a little juice of lemon or a little minced parsley or tarragon. Serve with
crackers or croutons.

STUFFED POTATOES.

Bake handsome, uniform potatoes, cut off the tops with a sharp knife, take out the inside.
Add to the scraped potato, butter, milk, pepper, salt and a little grated cheese, fill the
empty shells and heap above the top. Grate a little cheese over this and set in the oven to
brown. Serve hot.

POTATOES USED TO CLEANSE.

Small pieces of raw potato in a little water shaken vigorously inside bottles and lamp chimneys
will clean them admirably. To clean a burned porcelain kettle boil peeled potatoes in it. Cold
boiled potatoes not over-boiled, used as soap will clean the hands and keep them soft and healthy.
To cleanse and stiffen silk, woolen and cotton fabrics use the following recipe:--Grate two
good sized potatoes into a pint of clear, clean, soft water. Strain through a coarse sieve
into a gallon of water and let the liquid settle. Pour the starchy fluid from the sediment,
rub the articles gently in the liquid, rinse them thoroughly in clear water and then dry and
press. Water in which potatoes are boiled is said to be very effective in keeping silver bright.

BAKED PUMPKIN.

Slice the pumpkin a quarter of an inch thick, peel and put a layer in the bottom of a baking
dish, then a layer of sugar with a sprinkle of cinnamon and dot with butter, repeat this until
the pan is full. Let the top be well covered with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until the
sugar becomes like a thick syrup. Or cut the pumpkin in squares and do not peel, bake, and
when soft enough, scrape it from the shells, season with butter and salt and serve like squash.

CANNED PUMPKIN.

Stew pumpkin as for pies, put while hot in cans and seal.

PUMPKIN LOAF.

Take one quart of stewed pumpkin mashed fine, one teaspoonful each of salt and baking soda,
one tablespoonful sugar, three pints of meal. Stir all together while boiling hot; steam four
hours, or steam three hours and bake one. To be eaten hot with cream, or butter and sugar.

PUMPKIN MARMALADE.

Take ripe yellow pumpkins, pare and cut them into large pieces, scrape out the seed, weigh
and to every pound take a pound of sugar and an orange or lemon. Grate the pieces of pumpkin
on a coarse grater and put in the preserving kettle with sugar, the orange rind grated and
the juice strained. Let it boil slowly, stirring frequently and skimming it well until it forms
a smooth, thick marmalade. Put it warm into small glass jars or tumblers and when cold cover
with a paper dipped in alcohol and another heavy paper pasted over the top of the glass.

PUMPKIN PIE.

To one quart of rich milk take three eggs, three big tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little salt,
and a tablespoonful of ginger, a teaspoonful of cinnamon and a grated nutmeg if one likes it
highly spiced, add enough finely stewed pumpkin to make a thin mixture. This will make three
pies. A good pumpkin pie will puff up lightly when done.

PRESERVING PUMPKINS FOR WINTER USE.

A good way to prepare pumpkin for winter use is to cook and sift it as fine as for pies, then
add nearly as much sugar as there is pumpkin; stir well and pack in crocks. Better than dried
pumpkin for winter use.

PUMPKIN SOUP.

For six persons use three pounds of pumpkin; take off the rind, cut in pieces and put in a
saucepan with a little salt and cover with water; let it boil until it is soft (about twenty
minutes) and pass through a colander; it must have no water in it; put about three pints of
milk in a saucepan, add the strained pumpkin, and let come to a boil; add a very little white
sugar, some salt and pepper, but no butter. Serve hot.

HOW TO SERVE RADISHES.

Let every housekeeper try serving radishes in this dainty way. Cut off the root close to the
radish and remove the leaves, leaving about an inch of the stem. Then cut the skin of the radish
from the root toward the stem, in sections, as is done in removing the skin of an orange in
eighths. The skin can then be peeled carefully back to the stem by slipping the point of a
knife under it, and pulling it gently away from the heart of the radish. The pure white heart,
with the soft pink of the peeling and the green stem makes a beautiful contrast. If they are
thrown into cold water as fast as they are prepared and allowed to remain there until the time
for serving, they will be much improved, becoming very crisp and tender. The skin of the young
radish should never be discarded, as it contains properties of the vegetable that should always
be eaten with the heart; and, unless the radish is tough, it will agree with a delicate stomach
much better when eaten with the peel on. They look very dainty when served in this way, lying
on fresh lettuce leaves, or are beautiful to use with parsley as a garnish for cold meats.

RADISH, CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD.

Slice a bunch of radishes, and a cucumber very thin, make a bed of cress or lettuce, over this
slice three solid tomatoes, and cover with the cucumbers and radish. Pour over all a French
or mayonnaise dressing.

BAKED RHUBARB.

Peel rhubarb stalks, cut into inch lengths, put into a small stone crock with at least one
part sugar to two parts fruit, or a larger part if liked, but not one particle of water, bake
until the pieces are clear; flavor with lemon or it is good without. It is a prettier sauce
and takes less sugar than when stewed, and can be used for a pie filling if the crust is made
first. To prevent burning, the crock may be set in a pan of boiling water. When done and while
yet hot, beat up the whites of two eggs and whip into the sauce. It makes it very light and
very nice.

BOTTLED RHUBARB.

Use perfectly fresh, crisp rhubarb, peel and cut in small pieces as for pies, fill a Mason
jar with the fruit and pour over it freshly drawn water. Screw on the top and by the next morning
the water will have settled in the jar. Fill the jars full with fresh water, seal again and
the fruit is ready for winter's use. In making pies it takes less sugar than the fresh fruit.
Or, boil the rhubarb a few moments, as for sauce, with or without sugar and put into jars while
it is very hot just as other fruit is canned.

RHUBARB COBBLER.

Two cups of flour sifted with two teaspoons of baking powder and one-half teaspoon of salt.
Rub in two tablespoons of butter. Beat one egg very light and add it to three-fourths of a
cup of milk. Mix with the other ingredients, line the sides of a baking dish with this crust.
Take one quart of chopped rhubarb sweetened with three cups of sugar, fill the pudding dish
with the rhubarb; roll out the remaining crust, cover the top of dish and bake one-half hour.

MRS. LAURA WHITEHEAD.

CREAM RHUBARB PIE.

One cup of rhubarb which has been peeled and chopped fine; add one cup of sugar and the grated
rind of a lemon. In a teacup place one tablespoonful of cornstarch and moisten it with as much
cold water; fill up the cup with boiling water and add it to the rhubarb. Add the yolks of
three eggs well beaten. Bake with an under crust. When cold cover with a meringue made of the
whites of the eggs and one-half cup of sugar. Place in the oven to become a delicate brown.
Very fine.

MRS. BYRON BACKUS.

RHUBARB JAM.

Use equal parts of rhubarb and sugar, heat the sugar with as little water as will keep it from
burning, pour over the rhubarb and let stand several hours; pour off and boil until it thickens,
then add the fruit and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Put up in jelly glasses. Apples and
oranges may be put up with rhubarb allowing two apples or three oranges to a pint of cut up
rhubarb.

RHUBARB TAPIOCA.

Soak over night two-thirds of a cupful of tapioca. In the morning drain; add one cupful of
water and cook the tapioca until it is clear; add a little more water if necessary. Then add
a cup and a half of finely sliced rhubarb, a pinch of salt and a large half-cup of sugar. Bake
in moderate oven an hour. Serve warm or cold and eat with sugar if liked very sweet. Very nice.

SHIRLEY DE FOREST.

RUTABAGAS BOILED.

Pare, slice and boil in as little salted water as possible, a little sugar added is an improvement.
When dry and tender serve plain, each slice buttered and peppered as it is piled on the plate.

RUTABAGAS AND POTATOES.

Use three-fourths potatoes and one-fourth rutabagas; boil in salted water until tender, add
a lump of butter, a dust of pepper and more salt if necessary, mash and stir until fine and
light. Any good recipe for white turnips is equally good for rutabagas.

SALAD DRESSINGS.

=French Dressing.=--Use one tablespoonful of vinegar to three of salad oil (melted butter will
do) one teaspoonful of salt to half the quantity of pepper and a teaspoonful of made mustard.
Mix the salt, pepper, mustard and oil together, then add the vinegar a few drops at a time,
stirring fast. A teaspoonful of scraped onion may be added for those who like the flavor.

=Mayonnaise Dressing.=--Put in the bottom of a quart bowl the yolk of a raw egg, a level teaspoonful
of salt, and three-fourths of a teaspoonful of pepper; have ready about half a cupful of vinegar,
and a bottle of salad oil; use a wooden spoon and fork for mixing the mayonnaise--first the
egg and seasoning together, then begin to add the oil, two or three drops at a time, stirring
the mayonnaise constantly until a thick paste is formed; to this add two or three drops at
a time, still stirring, enough vinegar to reduce the paste to the consistency of thick cream;
then stir in more oil, until the mayonnaise is again stiff, when a little more vinegar should
be added; proceed in this way until the oil is all used, being careful toward the last to use
the vinegar cautiously, so that when the mayonnaise is finished it will be stiff enough to
remain on the top of the salad. Some like the addition of a level teaspoonful of dry mustard
to a pint of mayonnaise.

=Plain Salad Dressing.=--Set a bowl over a boiling teakettle, into it put a tablespoonful each
of melted butter and mustard, rub them well together, then add a tablespoonful of sugar, one
half-cup of vinegar and lastly three well-beaten eggs. Stir constantly while cooking, to make
the mixture smooth, when done, strain and bottle for use. If too thick upon serving, thin with
cream.

BOILED SALSIFY.

Scrape off the outer skin of the roots, cut in small pieces and throw into water with a little
vinegar to prevent turning brown. Boil at least an hour, as they should be quite soft to be
good. When done put in a little salt codfish picked very fine. Season with butter, salt, and
cream, thickened with a little flour or cornstarch and serve with bits of toast. The fish helps
to give it a sea-flavor. Instead of fish the juice of half a lemon may be used or it is good
without any added flavor.

ESCALLOPED SALSIFY.

Cook salsify in salted water until tender, alternate it in a baking dish with bread crumbs
seasoned with pepper and salt, and dot with butter.

SALSIFY FRITTERS.

Scrape some oyster plant and drop quickly into cold water with a few drops of vinegar to prevent
its turning dark. Boil until soft in salted water, mash fine, and for every half pint of the
pulp add one well beaten egg, a teaspoonful of melted butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a heaping
tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper. Drop into boiling lard or drippings and fry brown.
Or, instead of mashing the salsify after boiling, some prefer to drain it, and to dip each
piece in batter and fry it in hot lard. Season with salt and pepper after frying, drain in
a napkin and serve hot.

FRIED SALSIFY.

Scrape, cut into finger lengths and boil in salted water, drain and cover with a dressing of
oil and vinegar, salt and pepper. Let stand until well seasoned, then drain again, sprinkle
with parsley and fry in hot fat. Put in but few pieces at a time as each needs attention. Dry
in a hot colander and serve.

SALSIFY SOUP.

Use a pint of salsify cut fine, boil until soft in a pint of water, mash and put through a
sieve. Have ready three pints of boiling milk, into this put the salsify, liquor and pulp,
thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, and season with butter, pepper and salt. Roll crackers
and stir in three tablespoonfuls of cracker dust.

SAUCES.

=Asparagus Sauce.=--Use the tender part of the stalks for the main dish, boil the tougher part
until it is as soft as it will be, then rub through a coarse sieve. Put the pulp into a mixture
of one tablespoonful each of butter and flour and let it simmer for a few moments, add a half-cup
of water in which the asparagus was boiled, season with salt and pepper and boil thoroughly;
just before taking from the fire add a half-cup of hot cream or one-half cup of milk and water,
and a teaspoonful of butter; a little grating of nutmeg improves the flavor.

=Bechamel Sauce.=--Bechamel sauce is a white one and needs a white stock; if there is none
at hand make it in the following manner: cut up lean veal, free from fat into three-inch cubes
and put them into a stewpan. Add one small onion, one small carrot cut into pieces, and six
ounces of butter. Fry the vegetables in the butter ten minutes, without coloring, then stir
in three ounces of flour, and continue stirring five minutes longer. Add three pints of stock,
one pint of cream, five ounces of mushrooms, a small sprinkling of dried herbs, one half teaspoonful
of salt and a pinch of white pepper. Stir until it comes to a boil, skim occasionally to remove
the fat, and simmer for two hours. Strain through a cloth or fine sieve into a porcelain stewpan
with a gill of cream. Simmer over the fire till it coats the spoon, strain again through a
cloth or fine sieve into a basin, and set till the sauce is cold. This sauce requires the cook's
utmost attention.

=Butter Sauce or Drawn Butter Sauce.=--Mix one tablespoonful each of butter and flour to a
smooth paste, put in a saucepan to melt, not to brown, and add one cupful of water, broth,
or milk. Season with one teaspoonful of salt and one saltspoonful of pepper. Stir constantly
while boiling. This is a good sauce in itself and is the foundation of many other sauces; it
is varied with different vegetable flavors, catsups, vinegars, spices, lemon juice, leaves
and the different sweet herbs.

=Brown Sauce or Spanish Sauce.=--Brown a tablespoonful of butter, add the same amount of flour
and brown again, add a cup of boiling water, stock or milk, and stir while it is cooking, strain
if necessary; a clove, a bay leaf, and a tablespoonful of minced onion or carrot browned in
the butter varies the flavor.

=Caper Sauce.=--Stir into some good melted butter from three to four dessertspoonfuls of capers;
add a little of the vinegar and dish the sauce as soon as it boils.

=Celery Sauce.=--Cut half a dozen heads, or so, of celery into small pieces; cook in a little
slightly salted water until tender, and then rub through a colander. Put a pint of white stock
into a stewpan with two blades of mace, and a small bunch of savory herbs; simmer half an hour
to extract their flavor, then strain them out, add the celery and a thickening of flour or
corn-starch; scald well, and just before serving, pour in a teacupful of cream, or if one has
not the cream, use the same amount of scalded milk and a tablespoonful of butter, season to
taste with salt and white pepper, squeeze in a little lemon juice, if one has it, and serve.
If brown gravy is preferred thicken with browned flour, and it is improved by a little Worcestershire
sauce or mushroom catsup.

=Cream Sauce.=--Rub to a smooth paste one tablespoonful of butter and the same of flour, put
into a saucepan and melt, do not brown; have ready a cup of hot cream, or the same amount of
milk enriched by a tablespoonful of butter and add to the butter and flour. Stir constantly
until it thickens. A dusting of grated nutmeg, grated cheese or a saltspoonful of chopped onion
lightly browned in the butter is an agreeable addition.

=Cucumber Sauce.=--Use two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a scant tablespoonful of vinegar or
lemon juice, a half-teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and a saltspoonful of mustard with
a teaspoonful of cucumber; rub the oil and mustard together before adding the other ingredients,
stir well and serve very soon as it spoils by standing.

=Egg Sauce.=--Boil the eggs hard, cut them into small squares, and mix them with good butter
sauce. Make hot and add a little lemon juice before serving.

=Horseradish Sauce.=--Two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, two of white sugar, one-half teaspoonful
of salt and a gill of vinegar; mix and pour over sufficient grated horseradish to moisten thoroughly.

=Lyonnaise Sauce.=--Brown a small onion minced in a tablespoonful of butter and the same of
flour, add a half-cupful of meat broth, a teaspoonful of parsley, salt and pepper and cook
long enough to season well.

=Mint Sauce.=--Four dessertspoonfuls of mint, two of sugar, one gill of vinegar; stir all together;
make two or three hours before wanted.

=Mushroom Sauce.=--Mix one tablespoonful each of flour and butter, melt in a stewpan, add a
cupful of rich white stock or cream and stir until it thickens; put in a half-cupful of freshly
boiled or of canned mushrooms, let all come to a boil again, season with a saltspoonful of
salt and a dash of cayenne pepper; serve hot.

=Mustard Sauce, French.=--Slice an onion in a bowl; cover with good vinegar. After two days
pour off the vinegar; add to it a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful
of sugar, and mustard enough to thicken; mix, set upon the stove and stir until it boils. When
cold it is ready for use.

=Mustard Sauce, German.=--Four tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, one tablespoonful of flour,
two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one of salt, two of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of cayenne pepper,
three of melted butter; mix with one pint of boiling vinegar.

=Onion Sauce.=--Mince an onion; fry it in butter in a stewpan. Pour over it a gill of vinegar;
let it remain on the stove until it is simmered one-third away. Add a pint of gravy, a bunch
of parsley, two or three cloves, pepper and salt. Thicken with a little flour and butter, strain,
and remove any particles of fat.

=Parsley Sauce.=--Parsley sauce is the usual "cream sauce," to which is added a tablespoonful
of minced parsley and one hard boiled egg finely chopped.

=Tartare Sauce.=--Tartare sauce is a French salad dressing to which is added a tablespoonful
each of chopped olives, parsley, and capers or nasturtiums; instead of capers or nasturtiums
chopped cucumbers or gherkins can be used. Set on ice until used.

=Vinaigrette Sauce.=--A vinaigrette sauce is a brown sauce flavored with vinegar just before
serving; it must be cider vinegar, or one of the fancy vinegars, as tarragon, parsley, martynia
and the like; or, rub a teaspoonful of mustard into a tablespoonful of olive oil, to which
add a teaspoonful of salt and one-half teaspoonful of pepper. Lastly add very slowly a half-cup
of vinegar stirring vigorously.

=White Sauce.=--Put one tablespoon each of flour and butter in a saucepan and stir together
until they bubble; then gradually stir in a pint of boiling water or white stock; season with
salt and pepper and let boil a moment longer. To vary it, the beaten whites of two eggs may
be stirred in just before serving.

SCORZONERA.

The roots are eaten boiled like those of salsify--or like the Jerusalem artichoke. The recipes
of either are applicable to scorzonera. The leaves of scorzonera are used in salad with a plain
or French dressing.

SHALLOTS.

The bulbs are more delicate than onions, and are used to flavor soups, salads, dressings and
sauces. The leaves when young help in forming salads.

SORREL AND SWISS CHARD.

Sorrel and Swiss chard are often used together as the chard modifies the acidity of the sorrel.
They make acceptable greens when used together and are treated like spinach.

SORREL SOUP.

Pick off the stems and wash the leaves of a quart of sorrel, boil in salted water, drain and
chop fine, mix butter and flour in a saucepan and when the butter is melted turn in the sorrel
and let cook for a couple of minutes. Add three pints of beef or veal stock well seasoned and
stir until it boils. Just before serving beat up two eggs and turn over them the boiling soup,
which will cook them sufficiently. A sliced onion, or a few blades of chives boiled with the
sorrel is a welcome flavor occasionally, also the stock may be half meat stock and half cream
or milk.

SORREL AND SPINACH SOUP.

To one quart of sorrel add a handful of spinach and a few lettuce leaves. Put them in a frying
pan with a large piece of butter and cook until done. Add two quarts of boiling water, season
with salt and pepper and just before serving add two eggs well beaten into a gill of cream.
This is an excellent soup for an invalid.

BAKED SPINACH.

Use one-half peck of spinach. Pick over the leaves carefully, remove all wilted ones and roots,
wash thoroughly and put in boiling water to which a pinch of soda has been added to keep the
color. When very tender, drain, chop fine, and put into a baking dish. Put into a saucepan
with a cup of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, one small teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne
pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Let this come to a boil, stir into the spinach, add
two well beaten eggs and bake ten minutes in a hot oven.

BOILED SPINACH, FRENCH.

Prepare as above, after it is thoroughly tender, throw into a colander and drench with cold
water. This gives a firmness and delicacy attained in no other way. Shake it free from water,
chop fine, put into a saucepan, stir with a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste
and two tablespoonfuls of cream until hot, when it is ready to be heaped in the dish with poached
or boiled eggs or quirled yolks on top. To quirl the yolks run them through the sieve of a
patent potato masher.

"VICTORY" SPINACH

Carefully wash the spinach, scald it in boiling salted water, then pour cold water over it,
drain and chop fine. Stew an onion in butter until it is soft, add the spinach, sprinkle flour
over it and cook for ten minutes stirring constantly, add salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg,
and cover with meat stock or gravy. Boil a few minutes and when done, add a little sour cream.

FRIED SPINACH.

Take cold spinach left from dinner, premising that it was boiled tender in properly salted
water, and that there were three or four poached eggs left also. Chop the eggs thoroughly into
the spinach and sprinkle with pepper. Put into a frying-pan a large tablespoonful of butter,
and when it is sufficiently hot put in the spinach and eggs, and fry nicely.

RAVIOLI OF SPINACH.

Prepare a potato paste as for Potato Turnovers, or a good puff paste, and with a saucer or
tin cutter of that size cut out a circle. Place a tablespoonful of spinach prepared French
style upon one side, wet the edges, fold over the other side and press it around with the fingers
and thumb, brush with egg and bake until a light brown. When served pour around it cream or
a cream sauce in which is a hard boiled egg chopped fine, or peas.

SPINACH SALAD.

Take two dozen heads of spinach, season with salt and pepper, put in salad dish and set away
on ice. Take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, mash fine, add mustard, salt, pepper, a tablespoonful
of melted butter. Mix thoroughly, add vinegar and pour over the spinach. Garnish with hard
boiled eggs sliced.

COOKING SUMMER SQUASH.

Quarter, seed, pare and lay them in cold water. Steam over boiling soft water if possible,
or boil in salted water and drain thoroughly, mash them smooth and season with butter, pepper
and salt. If the seeds are very young and tender they can be retained.

ESCALLOPED SUMMER SQUASH.

The squash is pared and sliced and laid in a baking dish alternating with cracker crumbs, seasoned
with butter, pepper and salt, until the dish is full, the upper layer being cracker crumbs
dotted with butter. Bake three quarters of an hour.

FRIED SUMMER SQUASH.

Cut the squash in thin slices and sprinkle with salt. Let it stand a few minutes, then beat
an egg, in which dip the slices. Fry in butter and season with sugar or salt and pepper to taste.

SUMMER SQUASH FRITTERS.

Use three medium sized squashes; pare, cut up and boil tender, drain thoroughly and mash, season
with pepper and salt; add one cupful of milk (cream is better), the yolks of two eggs and sufficient
sifted flour to make a very stiff batter, or they will be hard to turn; lastly, stir in the
beaten whites of the eggs. Fry brown in hot fat.

BAKED WINTER SQUASH.

Cut in small pieces to serve individually, bake with the rind on, scoop out the squash, season
it with butter, pepper, salt, a little sugar and cream and replace in shells; an allowance
of two or three extra pieces should be made to give filling enough to heap the shells, dust
a few bread or cracker crumbs over the top, dot with a bit of butter, bake a nice brown and serve.

BOILED WINTER SQUASH.

Peel and cut into pieces a large squash that will, when cooked fill a half gallon. Steam over
hot salted water if possible, if not put it on to boil in as little water as possible. Keep
it closely covered and stir frequently. When perfectly soft, drain in colander, press out all
of the water, rub the squash through a sieve and return it to the saucepan. Add to it a quarter
of a pound of nice butter, one gill of sweet cream and salt and pepper to taste. Stew slowly,
stirring frequently until it is as dry as possible. In cold weather serve all vegetables on
warmed dishes.

SQUASH BISCUIT.

CHICAGO RECORD.

SQUASH CUSTARD.

Use a cupful of mashed squash, stir into it a pint of hot milk, then add four well beaten eggs,
a tablespoonful of butter, and season with salt and pepper. Put into a hot greased baking pan
and bake in a quick oven.

SQUASH PIE. (See Pumpkin Pie.)

SQUASH SOUP.

To one quart of thoroughly cooked pumpkin or squash allow two quarts of milk, plenty of butter,
pepper and salt. Serve with toasted bread. Pumpkin and squash soups are French dishes.

SWEET POTATO BISCUIT.

One quart of flour, one quart of sweet potatoes--after they are boiled and grated--one-half
cupful of lard, one cup of yeast--mix with either milk or water; let them rise twice. Bake
like tea biscuits.

ESCALLOPED SWEET POTATOES.

Boil the potatoes the day before. Peel and slice them rather thick. In the bottom of a baking-dish
put bits of butter, sprinkle sugar and put a layer of potato. Then more butter, sugar and potato,
until the pan is full. Let the top be strewn with sugar and bits of butter and pour over it
a teacupful of water. Put it in the oven, and after it begins to cook, once or twice moisten
the top with a little butter and water to dissolve the sugar and prevent its merely drying
on top of the potato. Use a teacupful of sugar and half a pound of butter to a half gallon
pan of potato. Bake slowly.

SWEET POTATO LOAF.

Boil and mash sweet potatoes, season with butter, pepper and salt, put into a buttered baking
dish, cover with bread crumbs dotted with butter, and bake until brown. Ornament with cress
or a few sprigs of parsley.

SWEET POTATOES ROASTED.

