At a sign from the Baroness the old servant gave Herr Carovius a free path. He went in: his
face was red; he made a quite ridiculous bow. His eyes drank in the velvet portières, the cut
glass mirrors, the crystal vases, and the bronze statuettes. In the meantime, and without fail,
he had placed his right hand against his hip, giving the fine effect of right akimbo, and set
one foot very elegantly a trifle more to the fore than the other: he looked like a provincial
dancing-master.

He complained of the presumptuousness of the servants, and assured the Baroness that she was
in complete enjoyment of his deference. He spoke of his good intentions and the pressure of
circumstances. When the impatient bearing of his sole but distinguished auditor at last obliged
him to come to the real purpose of his visit, the Baroness twitched; for from his flood of
words there emerged, as she heard them, nothing but the name of her son.

With panting sounds she came up to Herr Carovius, and took him by the coat-sleeve. Her dim,
black eyes became as round as little bullets; the supplicating expression in them was so much
balm to the soul of her visitor.

Herr Carovius was enchanted; he was having the time of a scurvy life; he became impudent; he
wanted to take vengeance on the mother against the son. He saw that the Baroness did not correspond
to the picture he had made of a creature who belonged to the aristocracy. In his imagination
she had lived as a domineering, imperious, inaccessible phenomenon: and now there stood before
him an old, obese, worried woman. On this account he gave his voice a shriller tone, his face
a more scurrilous expression than was his wont. Then he launched forth on a graphic narration
of the unhappy plight in which he now found himself as a result of his association with Baron
von Eberhard, Jr.

He claimed that it was nothing but his own good nature that had got him into this trouble.
And yet, what was he to do? The Baron would have starved to death, or become morally depraved,
if he had not come to his spiritual and pecuniary rescue, for the young man was sadly wanting
in the powers of moral resistance. And what had he gained by all this altruism? Ingratitude,
bitter ingratitude!

“He plundered me; he took my last cent, and then acted as if it were my damned duty to go through
fire for his baronical excellency,” screamed Herr Carovius. “Before I came to know him I was
a well-to-do man; I could enjoy myself; I could reap the higher pleasures of human existence.
To-day I am ruined. My money is wasted, my house is burdened with mortgages, my peace of mind
has gone plumb to the Devil. Two hundred and seventy-six thousand marks is what the young man
owes me and my business friends. Yes—two hundred and seventy-six thousand marks, including
interest and interest on the interest, all neatly noted down and signed up by the duly authorised
parties. Am I to let him slam the door in my face because of his indebtedness to me? I think
you will see yourself that that cannot be expected of me. He at least owes me a little respect
for what I have done for him.”

The Baroness had listened to all this with folded hands and unfixed eyes. But the close of
the story was too much for her: she threw herself on a great divan, overcome—for the time being—with
worry and maternal weakness. A grin strayed across Herr Carovius’s face. He twirled his Calabrian
headpiece in his hands, and let his leery eyes wander about the walls. Then it was that he
caught sight of Dorothea, whom he had thus far failed to see in his intoxication of wrath and
rapture.

When Herr Carovius entered, Dorothea, out of discretion rather than with serious intent, had
made herself as small as possible in the most remote corner of the room. Trembling with curious
excitement, she had wished to evade the eye of her uncle Carovius, for in very truth she was
ashamed of him.

She regarded him as a sort of comic freak, who, though he had enough to live on, could not
be said to be in the best of circumstances. When he rolled the sum the Auffenberg family owed
him from his tongue, she was filled with astonishment and delight, and from then on she took
a totally different view of him.

During the last few years Herr Carovius had seen very little of Dorothea. Whenever he had met
her, she had passed by him in great haste. He knew that she was taking violin lessons: he had
often heard her screechy fiddling on the stairs and out in the hall.

He fixed his eyes on her, and exclaimed: “Well I’m a son-of-a-gun if there isn’t Döderlein’s
daughter! How did you get here? Aha, you are going about and showing the people what you can
do! I should think you and your creator would have had enough of music by this time.”

The Baroness, recalling that the young girl was present, raised her eyes and looked at Dorothea
reproachfully. For the first time in her life she felt that the resources she had managed to
extract from a life of neglect were about exhausted; for the first time in her life she felt
a shudder at the thought of her musical stupefactions.

She asked Herr Carovius to have patience, adding that he would hear from her in a few days—as
soon as she had talked the matter over with her husband. She nipped in the bud a zealous reply
he was about to make, and nodded a momentary farewell to Dorothea, who put her violin in the
case, took the case in her hand, curtsied, and followed her uncle out of the room.

She remained at his side; they went along the street together. Herr Carovius turned to her
from time to time, and made some rancorous remark. She smiled modestly.

With that began the strange relation that existed between the two from then on.

                                  II

It had looked for some time as though the Baron von Auffenberg had retired from the political
stage. In circles in which he had formerly been held in unqualified esteem he was now regarded
as a fallen hero.

His friends traced the cause of his failure to the incessant friction from which the party
had suffered; to the widespread change that was taking place in the public mind; to the ever-increasing
pressure from above and the never-ceasing fermentation from below; to the feverish restlessness
that had come over the body politic, changing its form, its ideals, and its convictions; and
to the more scrupulous and sometimes reactionary stand that was being taken on all matters
of national culture.

But this could not explain the hard trace of repulsion and aversion which the Baron’s countenance
had never before revealed when in the presence of men; it threw no light, or at most an inadequate
light, on the stony glare, gloomy impatience, and reticence which he practised now even in
those circles and under those circumstances in which he had formerly been noted for his diverting
talents as a conversationalist and companion.

In his heart of hearts he had, as a matter of fact, always despised his political constituents,
their speeches, their action, their enthusiasm, and their indignation. But he had never kicked
over the traces, for during the course of a rather eventful life he had made the discovery
that contempt and an icy disposition are invaluable adjuncts to any one who wishes to control men.

Even though he had fought at the beginning of his career with all the eloquence and buoyancy
at his command for freedom and tolerance, it remained a fact that he regarded liberalism as
nothing more than a newspaper term, a means of keeping men busy who were too indolent to think
for themselves, and a source of obstructive annoyance to the openly hated but secretly admired
Bismarck.

He had wielded a power in full consciousness of the lie he was acting, and had done it solely
by gestures, calculations, and political adroitness. This will do for a while, but in time
it eats into the marrow of one’s life.

In his eyes nothing was of value except the law, unwritten to be sure, but of immemorial duration,
that subjects the little to the big, the weak to the strong, the immature to the experienced,
the poor to the rich. In accordance with this law humanity for him was divided into two camps:
those who submitted to the law, and the undesirable citizens who rebelled against the law.

And of these undesirable citizens his son Eberhard was the most undesirable.

With this stinging, painful thorn in his flesh, oppressed by the feeling of loneliness in the
very midst of a noisy, fraudulent activity, and filled with an ever-increasing detestation
of the superfluity and consequent effeminacy of his daily existence, he had created out of
the figure of his son a picture of evil incarnate.

He visualised him in dissipation and depravity of every kind and degree; he saw him sinking
lower and lower, a traitor to his family name; as if in a dream that appeases the sense of
obscene horror, he saw him in league with the abandoned and proscribed, associating with thieves,
street bandits, high-flying swindlers, counterfeiters, anarchists, prostitutes, and literati.
He saw him in dirty dives, a fugitive from justice wandering along the highway, drunk in a
gambling den, a beggar at a fair, and a prisoner at the bar.

His determination to wait until the degenerate representative of the human family had been
stigmatised by all the world he finally abandoned. His impatience to find peace, to throw off
the mask, to rid himself completely of all entanglements, dissimulation, and the life of luxury
to which he had been accustomed became so great, that he looked forward to the day that would
eventually mark his release as the day of a new birth.

But why did he hesitate? Was there still an element of doubt in his breast? Was there still
slumbering, deep down in the regions of his heart that were inaccessible to bitterness and
revenge, another picture of his son? Why did he hesitate from week to week, from month to month?

In the meantime he had donated great fortunes to poor houses, hospitals, foundations, and similar
causes. He wanted to give away other millions, at least so much that his heirs would receive
only the gleanings of what had once been a field of riches. Emilia was to be given the income
from the breweries and the country estates.

To this extent he had firmly made up his mind. Now that his wife had told him of the actual
condition in which Eberhard found himself, he felt justified in going ahead and carrying out
his pre-determined plans. The proofs of dishonourable conduct on the part of his son could
now be brought forward. The debts he had contracted, either through flippancy or downright
deception, in the name of his father were sufficient to condemn him forever. And if not, then
let them fight it out after he was dead and gone; let his last will and testament be a ghost,
a spectre that would strike terror into their hearts and embitter such pleasure as they might
otherwise derive from life.

His will had been drawn up seven years ago; all that was needed was the signature of the notary
public.

But why did the Baron hesitate? Why did he pace back and forth in his room with pinched lips?
Why did he ring for the butler with the idea of sending this functionary for the notary, and
then suddenly change his mind and give the butler something else to do?

“Dépêche-toi, mon bon garçon,” screeched the parrot.

                                  III

In the course of three days the Baroness had five talks with her husband. Each time he rejected
her petition to have the affairs of their son straightened out; and when she became insistent
and seemed minded to keep up her fight, he became silent, speechless.

It was during her last attempt that the servants heard her speaking with extraordinary passion
and violence. When she left the Baron’s room her whole body was quivering with emotion and
excitement. She came out, and ordered the house servants to pack her trunk and her coachman
to be ready to leave in a few minutes.

An hour later she was on her way to the estate at Siegmundshof, about ten miles from the baronial
residence. Her maid accompanied her. But she was utterly unable to find peace there. During
the day she would pace back and forth through the rooms, crying and wringing her hands; at
night she would lie down, but not to sleep. On the fourth day she returned to the city, had
the carriage driven to the residence of Count Urlich, and sent her coachman in to get the Countess.
Emilia came down, terrified, to know what her mother wanted. The Baroness told her that she
wished her to accompany her to Herr Carovius, whose address she had found in the city directory.

Herr Carovius had waited in vain for the news the Baroness had promised him. His anger got
the best of him: he decided to make an example of the Auffenberg family, and, with this end
in view, entered their house as the personal embodiment of punitive justice. When he was told
that he could not be admitted, he began once more to start trouble; he raged and stormed like
a madman. The servants came running out from all quarters; finally a policeman appeared on
the scene and questioned him. The porter then dragged him from the house and out through the
big gate at the entrance to the grounds, where he stood surrounded by a crowd of curious but
not entirely disinterested people, bare-headed, waving his arms and striking an imaginary adversary
with his fists—a picture, all told, of anger intensified to the point of insanity.

His backers at once got wind of his fruitless attempts to collect. They became uneasy, gave
Herr Carovius himself a deal of trouble, and finally appointed a lawyer to take charge of the
case. In the meantime Herr Carovius had learned through a spy that it had come to a complete
break between the Baron and the Baroness, that the latter had left within two days with bag
and baggage, and that great consternation prevailed among the servants and friends of the family.

A voluptuous light crept across Herr Carovius’s face: here was defeat and despair, weeping
and gnashing of teeth; what more could he wish? He felt that he was personally the annihilator
of the collective aristocracy. And if it is possible to take a fiendish delight in witnessing
the destruction of what one after all despises, how much greater may this joy be when the thing
destroyed is something one loves and admires!

It was while in this mood that the Baroness and her daughter came to see him. The sight of
the two women left him momentarily speechless. He forgot to say good-day to them; to ask them
in never once occurred to him.

The Baroness wanted to know where Eberhard was: she was determined to see him. When Herr Carovius
stuttered out the astounding information to her that he was living hardly more than three hundred
paces from where she was then standing, she began to tremble and leaned against the wall. She
was not prepared for this: she had always imagined that he was staying at some mysterious place
in some mysterious distance.

Herr Carovius at once insisted that he accompany the ladies to the Baron’s diminutive residence.
But the Baroness felt that she was not capable of this: she feared it would mean her death.
“Take me home with you, Emilia,” she said to her daughter, “and you go over and have a talk
with Eberhard first.”

But Emilia had not seen Eberhard once during the nine years of her married life, and was even
less inclined than her mother to meet him now. Nor was it possible to take the Baroness to
her home. The old lady had evidently forgotten that she had told Count Urlich never to show
his face in her presence again. The occasion of this inexorable request was the time she learned
that the governess of his child was in a family way and that he was responsible for her disgrace.

Since the Baroness stoutly refused to return either to her town residence or to Siegmundshof,
there was nothing for Emilia to do but to take her to a hotel. Herr Carovius, who had accompanied
the two women on the street and had enjoyed to the full their pitiable distress, suggested
that they go to the Bavarian Court. He climbed up on the seat by the coachman, told him how
to get there, and looked down in regal triumph on the pedestrians.

Countess Emilia, quite at her wits’ end, sent a telegram to her Aunt Agatha. The next Wednesday
Frau von Erfft with her daughter Sylvia arrived. “Clotilda acts as if she had lost her mind,”
she said to Emilia after having spent an hour in the room with her sister. “I am going to see
your father. I must have a long talk with Siegmund.”

The Baron received his sister-in-law with marked coolness, though he had always had a great
deal of respect for her.

Frau von Erfft was quite careful to avoid any reference to the family affairs. She talked about
Sylvia, remarking that she was now twenty-seven years old, and that she had rejected all her
suitors, a fact which was causing her parents a measure of concern. “She simply will not be
contented,” said Frau Agatha. “She is bent on securing a special mission in her marriage, and
fears nothing so much as the loss of her personal liberty. That is the way our children are,
dear Siegmund; and if we had brought them into the world differently, they would be different.
In our day the ideal was obedience; but now children have discovered the duty they owe themselves.”

“Then they should look out for themselves,” replied the Baron gloomily. He had fully appreciated
what his sister-in-law was driving at.

From the confused and incoherent remarks of her sister, Agatha had learned what had taken place
between the Baron and the Baroness. She was familiar with the painful past; and when she looked
into the old Baron’s eyes, she saw what was necessary. She made up her mind then and there
to have Eberhard meet his mother.

She wished above everything else to quiet Clotilda and persuade her to return home. The task,
owing to the weakness and instability of the Baroness, was not difficult. Sylvia remained with
her aunt, and her quiet, resolute disposition had a wholesome effect upon her. In the meantime
Agatha had got Eberhard’s address. After some search she found the house: Eberhard was at home.

                                  IV

The first talk she had with him passed off without results of any kind. He evaded her courageous
remarks, and failed to hear what he did not care to hear. He was stiff, polite, and annoyingly
listless. Agatha, full of vexation, told her daughter of her disappointment. Sylvia said she
would like to go with her mother the next time she visited Eberhard. Agatha shook her head,
though she was in no way minded to abandon her purpose.

There was no change at the Baron’s house. Baroness Clotilda was in a perpetual state of nervous
excitement that was anything but reassuring either to herself or those about her. The Baron
was a disquieting riddle to the entire household: he never left his room; he paced up and down
hours at a time, with his hands folded across his back.

Agatha called on her nephew a second, a third, a fourth time. Even though Eberhard’s Arctic
impenetrability seemed made for all time, though yielding seemed to be no part of his nature,
she finally succeeded in jolting him loose from his bearings. And when Sylvia accompanied her
mother—Sylvia generally won her point with her mother—he shook off his armour with unexpected
suddenness; you could see the struggles that were going on in his soul.

Falteringly, and in the affected and finical tone he not infrequently adopted, he told the
story of his youth, commenting on the everlasting discord between his father and his mother
and the disagreeable quarrels that used to take place at home. He said that just as soon as
his mother would ask that something be done, his father would demand the opposite. The children
soon saw that father was going his way and mother hers; they were not unaware of the fact that
their parents cordially distrusted each other and even went so far as to lay traps for each
other. He insisted that his mother, with all her amiability and gentleness, was obsessed with
the idea of teasing, annoying, and wounding his father on that very point where she had already
and so often teased, annoyed, and wounded him before; and that this lack of reason and consideration
on her part, coupled with the absence of kindness and candour on his, had made the paternal
home a hell, torn at the hearts of the growing children, and in time so hardened them that
they suspected every friendly face they saw, and withdrew, as if so from something vile, from
every hand that was reached out to them. He related further that in this loveless wilderness
brother and sister had been drawn to each other, that in Emilia’s heart, and his own as well,
this mutual friendship was cherished as a sacred, inviolable possession, so sacred that it
impelled them in time to establish a league against all the rest of the world. How did they
conduct themselves once this league had been founded? If they read a book it was in common;
they kept no secrets from each other, advised each other, and shared their happiness and sorrow
equally, until one fine day Emilia’s father appeared before her, and informed her that Count
Urlich had asked for her hand and that he had promised that he should have it.

At this point in the story, Eberhard became silent; he bit his lips; his ashen face, that had
never before reminded Agatha so much of the old Baron, betrayed an incurable grief.

Agatha was familiar with this incident, in rough outline; but as Eberhard related it, it stirred
her soul to the very depths. “One must try to forget,” she said.

“Forget? No, that I cannot do; never have been able to do. Be it a matter of virtue or of vice,
I cannot forget. Emilia, then still half child and only half woman, was made flexible in time.
But that my mother did not do everything in her power to prevent this gruesome deed, and that
it caused her to sink deeper and deeper into the coils of domestic anguish by reason of her
innate and gnawing weakness—that was the bitterest experience of my entire life.”

“But she is your mother, Eberhard. Never in the history of the human family has a son had the
right to condemn his mother.”

“That is news to me,” replied Eberhard coldly. “Mothers are human beings like any one else.
Even mothers can commit a sin by filling their children with the poison of distrust and disgust
with life. Father and mother, parents: they are a symbol, a glorious one when they hover above
us and around us, worthy of respect and calling for filial veneration. But if I am bound to
them only by the ties of duty, they are not symbols; they are mere phantoms, conceptions of
human speech. There is no duty but the duty of love.”

Sylvia had sat in perfect silence. Unconsciously she had followed the most beautiful law of
harmonious souls: to wield an influence, to have power, not through the use of words and the
elaboration of reasons, but by a pure life, an unquestioned existence. Agreement and disagreement
lay like a play of light and shadow on her brow.

In this way she reminded Eberhard more and more of Eleanore.

Perhaps it was the power of this memory that moved him to promise that he would go with Agatha
on the following day to his mother. The sole condition he imposed was that he be assured that
he would not meet his father.

Seeing that he was relentless in this request, Frau von Erfft conceded it, though she had a
reassuring premonition that the events and the hour would be stronger than will and purpose.

                                   V

On entering his mother’s boudoir, Eberhard’s eyes fell at once on the alabaster clock, the
face of which was supported by three figures representing the daughters of time. In his childhood
days the clock had always had a highly poetic meaning to him: it seemed to symbolise the fulfilment
of his most ardent wishes.

The Baroness had been prepared for his coming by her sister. While Eberhard and Sylvia had
been standing in the corner room waiting, a few of the servants had gathered at the door, where
they whispered to each other timidly.

Eberhard went up to his mother and kissed her hand. The Baroness’s face was the colour of lead;
her eyes were opened as wide as possible, and yet she seemed hardly conscious. Emilia stood
at one side; her hands were pressed to her bosom, her fingers were twitching convulsively.

Frau Agatha endeavoured to relieve the situation of its solemnity and unnaturalness by making
a few humorous remarks about Eberhard’s hiding place on the hill by the Castle. Baroness Clotilda
looked at her son in anxious and uneasy suspense: “I scarcely recognise him,” she said with
a hoarse voice, “he has changed so.”

“You have changed, too, Mother,” said Eberhard, as his chin sought refuge between the lapels
of his coat. He was as stiff as a poker. Agatha looked at him full of vexation and annoyance.
He acted as though he were being bored by the meeting.

But it was only a mask. As he looked at the old, indistinct, tired, bullied face, he became
conscious of his mistake: he felt that he was wrong in saying that “Mothers are also human
beings.” He saw at once that amends had to be made, that action was necessary; he felt that
his next step would lead to inevitable self-contempt if he neglected the moral deed of repentance.

As he struggled with himself and stared, as if paralysed, into the rebellion of his own soul,
a certain pair of eyes had forced their way behind the seeming apathy. A sudden blush came
to Sylvia’s cheeks: she went up to her cousin, and took him by the hand. He quivered; he saw
at once that she had divined what was going on in his soul, and now she was determined to bring
his fight to a close, a final, definite close. She took him out of the room; he followed her;
she led him through the dining room, the reception room, the smoking room, the library, and
on to his father’s room. Agatha, Emilia, and the Baroness looked at each other in amazement.
They went to the door of the room, and listened in breathless suspense.

Sylvia opened the door rather boldly. The old Baron was sitting on the leather chair before
the stove. His legs were wrapped in a blanket; the expression on his face was of stony coldness.

Hardly had he noticed the two when he sprang to his feet as if the lightning had struck close
by him. He shook; he faltered; he groped about for a physical support; and from his throat
there came a stifled gurgle. That was all.

Eberhard walked over to him, and reached out his hand.

For a moment it seemed as if the old man would collapse. A last flash of hatred and revenge
shot from his blue eyes; then he too reached out his hand. His arm trembled; thick knots of
quivering muscles formed on his cheeks. Sylvia had gently closed the door and vanished.

Anxious minutes passed by and nothing happened, except that each held the hand of the other
and each looked into the eyes of the other. The silence was broken only by the crackling of
the fire in the stove.

“Just at the right time,” murmured the old Baron, without looking up and as if lost in meditation,
“just at the right time.”

Eberhard made no reply. He stood as still, as motionless, as silent, and with his heels as
close together as if he were a young officer facing his superior in command.

After a while he wheeled about and slowly left the room.

Sylvia was waiting in the library. In the twilight it was possible to see only the vague outline
of her body.

Eberhard took hold of her and whispered: “I really believe that I no longer have a father.”

                                  VI

That same night the old Baron had left. He got up in the middle of the night; at four o’clock
his valet accompanied him to the station.

The next morning two letters were found lying on his writing desk: one was addressed to Eberhard,
the other to the Baroness. The latter contained nothing more than a few words of farewell.
The former was more detailed. It expressed the Baron’s satisfaction at the fact that Eberhard,
whom he welcomed as the head of the house, had returned, and plainly indicated that all the
necessary legal steps would be taken in a very short while to give him complete authority as
his heir and successor. The letter closed with this surprising sentence: “So far as I am personally
concerned, I am planning to enter the Catholic Church, in order to spend the remainder of my
misapplied life at Viterbo in the Dominican Convent of Della Guercia.”

There was no explanation, no unusual display of feeling, no confession, nothing but the naked fact.

The Baroness was neither surprised nor shocked. She fell into a mute, melancholy brooding,
and then said: “He never was happy, never in his whole life. I never heard him laugh a really
whole-souled laugh; and living with him has made me forget how to laugh myself. His heart has
been from time immemorial a sort of convent, an abode of darkness, a place of sternness. He
has found his way home at last, and is probably tired from the long journey on the way to his
soul.”

“Nonsense, Clotilda!” cried Frau von Erfft. “What you say about his laughing may be true, and
a man who cannot laugh is half animal. But do you mean to tell me that an intelligent man must
resort to such means to find peace with himself and his God? A man who is under obligations
to set an example for others? Is there not enough darkness in men’s heads already? Is it necessary
to put out the torches of those who stand guard? My sense of pardon is not so elaborate. I
prefer to be a child of the world and associate with those who are regarded as heathens, and
who have given us works of light and illumination.”

At these words Eberhard entered. As she looked into his face, Frau von Erfft thought: “There
is another who can’t laugh.”

The Baron’s change of religious views caused the greatest excitement throughout the entire
country. The liberal newspapers published fulminatory articles; flaming protests were made
in the clubs against the surreptitious propaganda of Rome. The ultramontane party leaders rejoiced
and made capital out of the marvellous return of such a sceptic to the bosom of the Church
which alone can save the souls of men: they used the case as a bait for fresh recruits and
as a means to fill the old regulars with greater fire and enthusiasm. Through the homes blew
a breath of a tyrannical priesthood and spiritual gagging.

