VOL. I.--NO. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOURNAMENT.

Great rivalry arose once between James and Henry, two school-mates and warm friends, and all
on account of a pretty girl who went to the same school. Each one wanted to walk with her,
and carry her books and lunch basket; and as Mary was a bit of a coquette, and showed no preference
for either of her admirers, each tried to be the first to meet her in the shady winding lane
that led from her house to the school. At last they determined to decide the matter in the
old knightly manner, by a tournament. Two stout boys consented to act as chargers, and the
day for the meeting was appointed.

It was Saturday afternoon, a half-holiday, when the rivals met in the back yard of Henry's
house, armed with old brooms for lances, and with shields made out of barrel heads. The chargers
backed up against the fence, the champions mounted and faced each other from opposite sides
of the yard. The herald with an old tin horn gave the signal for the onset. There was a wild
rush across the yard, and a terrific shock as the champions met. James's lance struck Henry
right under the chin, and overthrew him in spite of his gallant efforts to keep his seat.

The herald at once proclaimed victory for James; and Henry, before he was allowed to rise from
the ground, was compelled to renounce all intention of walking to school with Mary in the future.

II.--A PERILOUS ADVENTURE.--(Continued.)

In this dreadful crisis, Walter pressed as hard as he could against the rocky crag, having
but one hand at liberty to defend himself against the furious attack of the bird. It was quite
impossible for him to get at his axe, and the force with which he was assaulted caused him
nearly to let go his hold. He tried to seize the vulture's throat and strangle it; but the
bird was too active, and made all such attempts perfectly useless. He could scarcely hope to
continue such a dangerous struggle much longer. He was becoming faint from terror, and his
left hand was fast growing benumbed with grasping the rock. He had almost resigned himself
to his fate, and expected the next moment to be dashed to pieces on the field of ice beneath.
Suddenly, however, he recollected his pocket-knife, and a new ray of hope dawned. Giving up
the attempt to clutch at the furious bird, he drew the knife out of his pocket, and opened
it with his teeth, and aiming two or three blows at the creature's breast, he found at last
that he had been successful in reaching some mortal part. The fluttering of the wings ceased,
and the dying bird stained the virgin snow with its blood on the ice-field below. Walter was
saved; there was no other enemy now to fear; his life was no longer in danger; but his energies
were taxed to the utmost, and it was well for him that the terrible contest had lasted no longer.

Pale, trembling in every limb, and spattered with the vulture's blood as well as that which
trickled from the many wounds he had received, the valiant young cragsman sank helplessly to
the ground, where he lay for some minutes, paralyzed with the terrible exertion he had gone
through. At length, however, he so far recovered himself as to be able to continue his fatiguing
and dangerous journey, and soon succeeded in reaching the spot where he had left his jacket,
shoes, and alpenstock. Having gained a place of safety, he poured forth his thanks to God for
delivering him from such great danger, and began to bind up his wounds, which for the first
time were now paining him. When this was accomplished in a rough and ready sort of way, he
had a peep at the trophies in his bag, whose capture had been attended with such adventurous
danger, and with the aid of his alpenstock succeeded in getting the dead body of the old bird,
which he found had been struck right to the heart. But his knife he could not recover, so concluded
that he must have dropped it after the deadly encounter.

"That doesn't matter much," said he to himself, as he looked at the size of the bird. "It is
a good exchange; and if I give the stranger the old bird with the young ones, I dare say he
will give me another knife. What a splendid creature! Fully four feet long, and the wings at
least three yards across. How father will open his eyes when he sees the dead Lämmergeier--and
the Scotch gentleman too!"

Tying the legs of the bird together with cord which he had fortunately brought, he slung it
across his shoulder to balance the weight of the bag, and then started on his journey across
the glacier, the foot of which he soon reached, and was then within hailing distance of the
hotel where the stranger was residing.

It was a good thing that he had not been kept longer away, for the sun was beginning to set
by the time he reached the valley, and only the highest peaks were lit up by its departing
glory. Tired and hungry, Walter was thankful to find himself once more at the door of the inn,
where there was the same crowd of travellers, guides, horses, and mules he had seen in the
morning. His appearance had attracted general attention as he descended the last hill leading
to the hotel.

"Why, I declare it's Watty Hirzel!" exclaimed one of the guides. "He was here this morning,
and I declare he's got a young eagle hanging across his shoulder."

"Say an old vulture, Mohrle, and you'll be nearer the mark," replied the lad in a cheerful
tone and with sparkling eyes; for he felt so proud of the triumph he had achieved that all
fatigue seemed to be forgotten. "An old vulture, Mohrle, and a splendid fellow into the bargain!
I've got the young ones in my bag here."

"You're a pretty fellow!" said another guide, with a sneer. "I suppose you mean to tell us
that you've killed the old bird and carried off the young ones?"

"Yes, that is just what I mean to tell you," replied the boy, smiling, and paying no attention
to the sneer of the other. "I've done it all alone. I took the youngsters out of the nest,
and had a regular fight with the old ones afterward. I brought one of them home; but the other
you will find somewhere in the Urbacht Valley, if you like to go and look for it."

"I think the lad speaks the truth," said Mohrle, gazing at Walter with astonishment and respect.--"You've
had a long journey, my boy, and you're covered with blood. Did the old vulture hurt you?"

"Yes, the brute stuck his claws into me, and if I hadn't had a sharp knife in my pocket, it
would have been all over with me. But let me through, for I want to take the young birds up
stairs to a gentleman here."

Mohrle and the other guides who had surrounded the courageous boy would gladly have detained
him longer to hear all the particulars of his daring adventure; but he pressed through the
crowd, promising to tell them all about it afterward, and made his way up to the room occupied
by Mr. Seymour, who received him with as much astonishment as the guides had done.

"There, Sir," exclaimed Walter, as he took the young vultures out of his bag and placed them
on the floor--"there are the birds you wanted; and here is one of the old ones, which I brought
with me from the Engelhorn. But you must let them have something to eat--the live ones, I mean;
for they've had nothing for nearly a whole day, and are squealing for hunger."

Mr. Seymour stood for a moment speechless. He was filled with delight at the sight of the young
birds he had so long wished for, but was at the same time dumfounded at the courage and honor
of the young mountaineer.

"Is it possible?" he exclaimed at last. "Have you really ventured to risk your life, although
I told you that I didn't want the birds?"

"Well, Sir, I know you said so; but I saw by your face that you would like to have them all
the same; and so, as you had been so kind to me, I didn't mind running a little risk to please
you, although it was hard work. So there they are; but you mustn't forget to feed them, or
they will be starved to death before morning."

"Oh, we will take good care that they don't die of hunger," replied Mr. Seymour, ringing the
bell. "I think, as you take such a warm interest in the welfare of the birds, you must feel
rather hungry yourself. So sit down and have something to eat, and then you can tell me all
about your adventure."

When the waiter came, some raw meat was ordered for the fledgelings--which were presently safely
housed in the stable-yard--and a good dinner for Walter, who, aided by Mr. Seymour's encouraging
remarks, did justice to a meal the like of which he had never before seen--a finale which was
to him by far the most agreeable part of his day's work. Then the lad commenced, in simple
language, to describe all that he had gone through, which, while it pleased his host thoroughly,
caused him to feel still greater surprise and admiration at his young friend's unaffected bravery
and presence of mind.

"You have performed a brave and daring action," said he, when Walter had finished his story.
"I should call it a rash and fool-hardy adventure, had you not been actuated by a noble motive
in carrying it out. A feeling of gratitude inspired you, and therefore God was with you, and
preserved you. But tell me, boy, how is it that you had courage and resolution enough to expose
yourself to such a frightful risk?"

"Well, Sir, I can't say," replied Walter, thoughtfully. "All I know is that I was determined
to do it, and that is enough to help one over a great many hard things. At the very last, when
I was attacked by the second vulture, and might have been easily thrown down the rocks, the
thought came into my mind that you must and ought to have the birds; and then I recollected
the knife in my pocket, which settled the business. Yes; that was it, Sir. You had been so
generous to me, that I made up my mind to fight it out; and there's the end of it. I couldn't
think of being ungrateful after so much kindness."

"Well, my lad, you have proved most clearly that you have a thankful heart and a cool and determined
head," said Mr. Seymour, not without emotion. "Maintain these characteristics, and use them
always for good and noble purposes, and I am sure you will find the end of every adventure
as satisfactory as this has been to-day. I owe you a new knife and a suit of clothes; for the
old vulture that has used you so badly was not in our bargain this morning. But we will talk
about that another time. You had better go home now, for I think your father will begin to
feel anxious about you, as it is getting late. I will come and see you in the morning."

Walter left the room in great glee. He stopped a few minutes in the court-yard to tell the
impatient guides what he had gone through, and then hurried home as fast as he could, where
he found his father waiting for him with some impatience. "Everything is settled, father!"
he exclaimed, as he clasped him round the neck. "We shall get our cow back again now; for I've
got the money, and Neighbor Frieshardt can't keep her any longer. I've brought it back with
me from the Engelhorn."

The peasant could scarce believe the hurried words of the excited boy, and was afraid his head
was turned, until Walter opened the little cupboard where he had put the money, and laid the
two bright gold pieces on the table. There was no longer any room for doubt; and the poor man's
eyes sparkled with delight as he looked at the sum which was just sufficient to pay his debt
and rescue the cow from the hands of his neighbor.

"But how did you come by all this money, Watty?" he inquired. "I hope you have got it fairly
and honestly?"

"Yes, quite honestly, father," replied the boy, with an open and exultant smile.

"Well, tell me-- But no; I must go and get Liesli out of prison without a moment's delay. Come
along with me to Neighbor Frieshardt's, Watty."

Away went the happy pair to the neighboring farm-house; and although Frieshardt looked sullen
and displeased when Toni Hirzel laid the gold pieces on the table, it was no use for him to
offer any resistance; so he went rather sulkily to the cow-house, and let out the captive animal,
which was followed home by the peasant and his proud son, and got a capital supper in her old
quarters. When this important business was accomplished, Walter repaired with his father to
the little cottage again, and for the third and last time that day related all the adventures
he had gone through in his hunt for the vulture's nest.

"Thanks be to God that He has watched over you, and brought you safely home again!" exclaimed
the father, who had listened with a beating heart to his son's story. "It is a great blessing
that we have got the money, for my cousin couldn't lend me any. But now promise me faithfully,
youngster, that you will never go on such a dangerous errand again without speaking to me about
it. It is a perfect miracle that you have come back alive! We have good reason to be thankful
as long as we live that you didn't miss your footing or get killed by that savage vulture.
But what I wonder most at is that you could muster up the pluck for such a risky business.
It was too dangerous."

"Well, father, I did it for you, and so that we could get poor Liesli back again," replied
the boy. "We could never have got on without the cow; and as the Scotch gentleman had been
so kind to me, I made up my mind to get the young birds for him, and thought nothing about
the danger I ran, if I could only accomplish my undertaking."

"I am very glad you have been so successful," said his father; "but never forget that your
success is owing altogether to God's help, and don't forget to thank Him with all your heart
for His watchful care."

"I'll be sure not to forget that, father," was the boy's reply. "I know that the very greatest
courage is of no use without God's blessing; and I prayed for help before I set out, and several
times afterward."

"That was right, Watty, my son. Never forget God, and He will always be with you, and protect
you all your life long. And now, good-night, dear boy."

"Good-night, father," replied Walter, heartily; and both retired to their humble beds, and
were soon wrapped in deep and healthful slumber.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A GIGANTIC JELLY-FISH.

Few excursions can be proposed more acceptable to young folks than going a-fishing, and perhaps
the most delightful sort of fishing is to be had by accompanying some old fisherman out into
the broad ocean.

There are many circumstances that contribute to make a day's sport of this kind more enjoyable
than pond or river fishing, and not the least of these consists in the wonderful variety of
the creatures to be caught.

In our inland streams and lakes in any given locality the kinds of fish to be caught are well
known, and, comparatively speaking, there are not many different sorts; but in ocean fishing
the oldest fisherman, and those most accustomed to the sorts of fish generally found in their
fishing grounds, every once in a while happen upon creatures the likes of which have seldom,
perhaps never, been seen before. Only a short time since a Nantucket fisherman, rowing slowly
along, buried the prow of his boat in some partly yielding substance that brought him to a
stand-still. Somewhat startled, he went forward, oar in hand, to find his little craft imbedded
in the body of an enormous jelly-fish, the largest ever seen. The soft and yielding body of
the creature offered so little resistance to his oar when he tried to push off, and he saw
himself so hopelessly entangled in the mass of slime and tentacles, that, instead of attempting
to free himself, he determined to tow it ashore, which he did by passing a sail-cloth under
its body and rowing slowly homeward.

Of course the rough encounter with the boat had considerably mutilated the jelly-fish, and
torn away portions of the long thread-like processes or tentacles that hang from the central
mass; yet these, when the creature was laid along the sand of the ocean beach, measured over
two hundred feet in length, and it is conjectured that, uninjured and stretched to their utmost
length, they could not have been less than three hundred feet long. The great shield-like body
of the animal was found to be over nine feet in diameter, two feet more than the largest heretofore
known, which is described by Professor Agassiz, who measured it while it was floating lazily
on the surface of the water. This specimen was so large that the professor feared his account
of it might be considered exaggerated.

The monster when alive looks as much as anything like an immense circular plate or dish of
glass floating bottom upward on the sea. The color of the body is a brownish-red, with a rather
broad margin of creamy white edged with blue, while the tentacles--pink, blue, brown, and purple--hang
like skeins of colored glass threads from the under parts of the shield. Very beautiful are
these threads, glistening with a silky lustre beneath the waves, but they are extremely dangerous,
too. Each of these threads, in fact, contains myriads of cells, in each one of which is coiled
up, ready to be darted forth on contact with any living substance, a whip-like lance finer
than the finest cambric needle. Millions of these stings entering at once cause a sensation
like that of a violent electric shock, paralyzing and often killing the creature with which
they come in contact.

This gigantic creature grows from the small one, called a hydroid, represented in the small
cut. You see the hydroid does not in the least resemble a jelly-fish. Perhaps the strangest
thing about these wonderful lumps of animated jelly is that their young are not jelly-fishes
at all, but an entirely different sort of animals. Sometimes they take the shape of a pile
of platters, which finally separate and become individual jelly-fish; sometimes they grow into
living plants which bear eggs like fruit, which eggs hatch and finally become jelly-fish. No
fairy tale can afford instances of transformations so surprising as do these animals--more
like animated bubbles than anything else to which they can be compared; transparent and exhibiting
the most brilliant colors, they dissolve away when stranded so completely that no trace of
their substance seems to remain.

THE FIRST DROP OF BITTERNESS.

  Come, little one, open your mouth!
    I know it is bitter to drink;
  But if you'll stop squirming and squalling,
    You'll have it all down in a wink.
  The poor little baby is sick,
    And this is to cure the bad pain;
  So swallow the medicine, darling,
    And soon you can frolic again.
  How glad should we be, who are older,
    And have bitter burdens to bear,
  To find out some wonderful doctor
    With cures for each sorrow and care!

       *       *       *       *       *

=At the Bottom of a Mine.=--Years ago some Welsh miners, in exploring an old pit that had been
long closed, found the body of a young man dressed in a fashion long out of date. The peculiar
action of the air of the mine had been such as to preserve the body so perfectly that it appeared
asleep rather than dead. The miners were puzzled at the circumstance; no one in the district
had been missed within their remembrance; and at last it was resolved to bring the oldest inhabitant--an
old lady, long past her eightieth year, who had lived single in the village the whole of her
life. On being brought into the presence of the body, a strange scene occurred: the old lady
fell on the corpse, kissed and addressed it by every term of loving endearment, couched in
the quaint language of a by-gone generation. "He was her only love; she had waited for him
during her long life; she knew that he had not forsaken her."

The old woman and the young man had been betrothed sixty years before. The lover had disappeared
mysteriously, and she had kept faithful during that long interval. Time had stood still with
the dead man, but had left its mark on the living woman. The miners who were present were a
rough set, but very gently, and with tearful eyes, they removed the old lady to her house,
and the same night her faithful spirit rejoined that of her long-lost lover.

THAT EARTHQUAKE!

Did you ever play in a cellar? I don't mean a cellar with a smooth floor, and coal-bins, and
a big furnace, and shelves with jars of nice jam on them and glasses of jelly; I've been in
that kind of a cellar too--I like quince jelly the best; it's first rate spread on bread and
butter--but I'm talking of another kind of a cellar, one with the house all taken away, and
only a big brick chimney left in the centre, with the top knocked off of that, and bricks and
pieces of stone and chunks of mortar scattered all round; with berry bushes growing in one
corner, and wild vines growing all around the edges.

There was just such a cellar as this where I used to live, and Kate and Teddy Ames, who lived
in the next house, used to come over and play in the cellar with Billy and me.

Billy was my brother, eight years old, and the best fellow to play with you ever saw, because
he was always "sperimentin"--that's what mother called it, and it meant trying to do things.

Billy knew a great deal more than all the rest of the boys in our school, and he was very fond
of reading, but it didn't make him stupid a bit, for whatever he read about he always wanted
to go right off and see if he could do it too. This made great fun for us, and got Billy into
lots of scrapes.

When he tried to do anything like what he had read about, he never would be satisfied until
he could do it all exactly as the reading said it was. So when we had read Robinson Crusoe
together--I think Billy knew it all by heart as well as he knew the table of sevens in the
multiplication table--he said, "Now let's play Robinson Crusoe." First he called the old open
cellar Crusoe's cave, and scooped out a place between some stones and made it clean, and I
braided a little mat and a curtain out of some long grass for it, and there he put his old
copy of Robinson Crusoe, and for days and days, after school was out, and in vacation, we played
Robinson Crusoe together.

Kate was a parrot, and wanted a great deal of cracker, Teddy was a goat, and I was the dog
and "man Friday" by turns. We walked about in the cellar pretending to look for the print of
naked feet, Billy going in front carrying a rusty old broken musket we had found in the garret,
and a piece of rubber hose (Billy always could find or make anything we wanted) for a telescope,
which he used to look through to see if there were any savages in sight when he climbed up
to the edge of the cellar.

The cellar was really an island, just like Robinson Crusoe's; for Billy and Teddy had digged
a ditch all round it, and filled it with water; but it was a very trying sort of an ocean,
'cause we had to fill it up every morning.

Teddy, who could whittle nicely, made some little canoes, and when Billy was looking through
the hose for savages, it was Teddy's part to poke the canoes with a long stick like a fish-pole,
so they would float right in front of Billy's hose. Then Billy would scramble down the wall,
and come running to us 'round behind the chimney, and tell us to lie very still, for there
were seven canoes full of cruel savages sailing for the island.

