The cook gave a gasp, and Judy saw that she had won the day. One more struggle, however, remained
before her triumph was complete. The housekeeper and the butler formed an alliance against
her, and refused to be awed by the stories of Mrs. Dillon's power and greatness; but as became
their station their opposition was not expressed in mere language. They did not condescend
to bandy words with inferiors. The butler fought his battle with Judy by simply tilting his
nose toward the sky on meeting her. Judy thereupon tilted her nose in the same fashion, so
that the servants' hall was convulsed at the sight, and the butler had to surrender or lose
his dignity. The housekeeper carried on the battle by an attempt to stare Judy out of countenance
with a formidable eye; and the greatest staring-match on the part of rival servants in Castle
Moyna took place between the representative of the Skibbereens and the maid of New York. The
former may have thought her eye as good as that of the basilisk, but found the eye of Miss
Haskell much harder.

The housekeeper one day met Judy descending the back stairs. She fixed her eyes upon her with
the clear design of transfixing and paralyzing this brazen American. Judy folded her arms and
turned her glance upon her foe. The nearest onlookers held their breaths. Overcome by the calm
majesty of Judy's iron glance, which pressed against her face like a spear, the housekeeper
smiled scornfully and began to ascend the stairs with scornful air. Judy stood on the last
step and turned her neck round and her eyes upward until she resembled the Gorgon. She had
the advantage of the housekeeper, who in mounting the stairs had to watch her steps; but in
any event the latter was foredoomed to defeat. The eyes that had not blinked before Anne Dillon,
or the Senator, or Mayor Livingstone, or John Everard, or the Countess of Skibbereen, or the
great Sullivan, and had modestly held their own under the charming glance of the Monsignor,
were not to be dazzled by the fiercest glance of a mere Donegal housekeeper. The contempt in
Judy's eyes proved too much for the poor creature, and at the top of the stairs, with a hysterical
shriek, she burst into tears and fled humbled.

"I knew you'd do it," said Jerry the third butler. "It's not in thim wake craythurs to take
the luk from you, Miss Haskell."

"Ye're the wan dacint boy in the place," said Judy, remembering many attentions from the shrewd
lad. "An' as soon as iver ye come to New York, an' shtay long enough to become an American,
I'll get ye a place on the polls."

From that day the position of the Dillon party became something celestial as far as the servants
were concerned, while Judy, as arbiter in the servants' hall, settled all questions of history,
science, politics, dress, and gossip, by judgments from which there was no present appeal.
All these details floated to the ears of Captain Sydenham, who was a favorite with Judy and
shared her confidence; and the Captain saw to it that the gossip of Castle Moyna also floated
into the parish residence daily. Some of it was so alarming that Father Roslyn questioned his
friend Captain Sydenham, who dropped in for a quiet smoke now and then.

"Who are these people, these Americans, do you know, Captain? I mean those just now stopping
with the Countess of Skibbereen?"

"That reminds me," replied the Captain. "Didn't you tell me Father William was going to America
this winter on a collecting tour? Well, if you get him the interest of Mrs. Dillon his tour
is assured of success before he begins it."

A horrible fear smote the heart of the priest, nor did he see the peculiar smile on the Captain's
face. Had he made the dreadful mistake of losing a grand opportunity for his brother, soon
to undertake a laborious mission?

"Why do you think so?" he inquired.

"You would have to be in New York to understand it," replied the Captain. "But the Countess
of Skibbereen is not a patch in this county compared to what Mrs. Dillon is in New York!"

"Oh, dear me! Do you tell me!"

"Her people are all in politics, and in the church, and in business. Her son is a--well, he
owns a gold mine, I think, and he is in politics, too. In fact, it seems pretty clear that
if you want anything in New York Mrs. Dillon is the woman to get it, as the Countess found
it. And if you are not wanted in New York by Mrs. Dillon, then you must go west as far as Chicago."

"Oh, how unfortunate! I am afraid, Captain, that I have made a blunder. Mrs. Dillon came to
me--most kindly of course--and made an offer to take care of a booth at the bazaar, and I refused
her. You know my feeling against giving these Americans any foothold amongst us----"

"Don't tell that to Father William, or he will never forgive you," said the Captain. "But Mrs.
Dillon is forgiving as well as generous. Do the handsome thing by her. Go up to the castle
and explain matters, and she will forget your----"

"Oh, call it foolishness at once," said the priest. "I'm afraid I'm too late, but for the sake
of charity I'll do what you say."

A velvety welcome Anne gave him. Before all others she loved the priest, and but that she had
to teach Father Roslyn a lesson he would have seen her falling at his feet for his blessing.
In some fashion he made explanation and apology.

"Father dear, don't mention it. Really, it is my place to make explanations and not yours.
I was hurt, of course, that you refused the little I can give you, but I knew other places
would be the richer by it, and charity is good everywhere."

"A very just thought, madam. It would give us all great pleasure if you could renew your suggestion
to take a booth at the bazaar. We are all very fond of Americans here--that is, when we understand
them----"

"Only that I'm going up to London, father dear, I'd be only too happy. It was not the booth
I was thinking of, you see, but the bringing of all the nobility to spend a few pounds with you."

"Oh, my dear, you could never have done it," cried he in astonishment; "they are all Protestants,
and very dark."

"We do it in America, and why not here? I used to get more money from Protestant friends than
from me own. When I told them of my scheme here they all promised to come for the enjoyment
of it. Now, I'm so sorry I have to go to London. I must present my letters to the ambassador
before he leaves town, and then we are in a hurry to get to Rome before the end of August.
Cardinal Simeoni has promised us already a private audience with the Pope. Now, father dear,
if there is anything I can do for you in Rome--of course the booth must go up at the bazaar
just the same, only the nobility will not be there--but at Rome, now, if you wanted anything."

"My dear Mrs. Dillon you overwhelm me. There is nothing I want for myself, but my brother,
Father William----"

"Oh, to be sure, your brother," cried Anne, when the priest paused in confusion; "let him call
on us in Rome, and I will take him to the private audience."

"Oh, thank you, thank you, my dear madam, but my brother is not going to Rome. It is to America
I refer. His bishop has selected him from among many eminent priests of the diocese to make
a collecting tour in America this winter. And I feel sure that if a lady of your rank took
an interest in him, it would save him much labor, and, what I fear is unavoidable, hardship."

Anne rose up delighted and came toward Father Roslyn with a smile. She placed her hand lightly
on his shoulder.

"Father dear, whisper."

He bent forward. There was not a soul within hearing distance, but Anne loved a dramatic effect.

"He need never leave New York. I'll see that Father William has the entrée into the diocese,
and I'll take care of him until he leaves for home."

She tapped him on the shoulder with her jeweled finger, and gave him a most expressive look
of assurance.

"Oh, how you overwhelm me," cried Father Roslyn. "I thank you a hundred times, but I won't
accept so kind an offer unless you promise me that you will preside at a booth in the bazaar."

Of course she promised, much as the delay might embarrass the American minister in London,
and the Cardinal who awaited with impatience her arrival in Rome.

The bazaar became a splendid legend in the parish of Cruarig; how its glory was of heaven;
how Mrs. Dillon seemed to hover over it like an angel or a queen; how Father Roslyn could hardly
keep out of her booth long enough to praise the others; how the nobility flocked about it every
night of three, and ate wonderful dishes at fancy prices, and were dressed like princes; and
how Judy Haskell ruled the establishment with a rod of iron from two to ten each day, devoting
her leisure to the explanation and description of the booths once presided over by her mistress
in the great city over seas. All these incidents and others as great passed out of mind before
the happenings which shadowed the last days at Castle Moyna with anxiety and dread.

The Dowager gave a fête in honor of her guests one afternoon, and all the county came. As a
rule the gentry sneered at the American guests of the Countess, and found half their enjoyment
at a garden fête in making fun of the hostess and her friends in a harmless way. There might
not have been so much ridicule on this occasion for two reasons: the children were liked, and
their guardian was dreaded. Anne had met and vanquished her critics in the lists of wit and
polite insolence. Then a few other Americans, discovered by Captain Sydenham, were present,
and bore half the brunt of public attention. The Dillons met their countrymen for a moment
and forgot them, even forgot the beautiful woman whose appearance held the eyes of the guests
a long time. Captain Sydenham was interesting them in a pathetic story of battle and death
which had just happened only a few miles away. When the two boys were dead beside the stream
in the glen, and the tourists had met their fate before the magistrate in Cruarig, he closed
the story by saying,

"And now down in the hotel is the loveliest Irish girl you ever saw, waiting with the most
patient grief for the help which will release her father from jail. Am I not right, Mrs. Endicott?"

The beautiful American looked up with a smile.

"Yes, indeed," she replied in a clear, rich voice. "It is long since I met a woman that impressed
me more than this lonely creature. The Captain was kind enough to take me to see her, that
I might comfort her a little. But she seemed to need little comfort. Very self-possessed you
know. Used to that sort of thing."

"The others got scot free, no thanks to old Folsom," said the Captain, "and one went off to
their yacht and the other intended to start for Dublin to interest the secretary. The Countess
should interest herself in her. Egad, don't you know, it's worth the trouble to take an interest
in such a girl as Honora Ledwith."

"Honora Ledwith," said the Dowager at a little distance. "What do you know of my lovely Honora?"

Already in the course of the story a suspicion had been shaping itself in Anne's mind. The
ship must have arrived, it was time to hear from Arthur and his party; the story warned her
that a similar fate might have overtaken her friends. Then she braced herself for the shock
which came with Honora's name; and at the same moment, as in a dream, she saw Arthur swinging
up the lawn towards her group; whereupon she gave a faint shriek, and rose up with a face so
pale that all stretched out hands to her assistance; but Arthur was before them, as she tottered
to him, and caught her in his arms. After a moment of silence, Mona and Louis ran to his side,
Captain Sydenham said some words, and then the little group marched off the lawn to the house,
leaving the Captain to explain matters, and to wonder at the stupidity which had made him overlook
the similarity in names.

"Why, don't you know," said he to Mrs. Endicott, "her son was one of the party of tourists
that Folsom sent to jail, and I never once connected the names. Absurd and stupid on my part."

"Charming young man," said the lady, as she excused herself and went off. Up in one of the
rooms of Castle Moyna, when the excitement was over and the explanations briefly made, Mona
at the window described to Arthur the people of distinction, as they made their adieus to their
hostess and expressed sympathy with the sudden and very proper indisposition of Mrs. Dillon.
He could not help thinking how small the world is, what a puzzle is the human heart, how weird
is the life of man.

"There she is now," cried Mona, pointing to Mrs. Endicott and an old lady, who were bidding
adieu to the Countess of Skibbereen. "A perfectly lovely face, a striking figure--oh, why should
Captain Sydenham say our Honora was the loveliest girl he ever saw?--and he saw them together
you know----"

"Saw whom together?" said Arthur.

"Why, Mrs. Endicott called on Honora at the hotel, you know."

"Oh!"

He leaned out of the window and took a long look at her with scarcely an extra beat of the
heart, except for the triumph of having met her face to face and remained unknown. His longest
look was for Aunt Lois, who loved him, and was now helping to avenge him. Strange, strange,
strange!

"Well?" cried Mona eagerly.

"The old lady is a very sweet-looking woman," he answered. "On the whole I think Captain Sydenham
was right."

CHAPTER XVII.

THE AMBASSADOR.

After the happy reunion at Castle Moyna there followed a council of war. Captain Sydenham treasonably
presided, and Honora sat enthroned amid the silent homage of her friends, who had but one thought,
to lift the sorrow from her heart, and banish the pallor of anxiety from her lovely face. Her
violet eyes burned with fever. The Captain drew his breath when he looked at her.

"And she sings as she looks," whispered the Countess noting his gasp.

"It's a bad time to do anything for Mr. Ledwith," the Captain said to the little assembly.
"The Fenian movement has turned out a complete failure here in Ireland, and abroad too. As
its stronghold was the United States, you can see that the power of the American Minister will
be much diminished. It is very important to approach him in the right way, and count every
inch of the road that leads to him. We must not make any mistakes, ye know, if only for Miss
Ledwith's sake."

His reward was a melting glance from the wonderful eyes.

"I know the Minister well, and I feel sure he will help for the asking," said Anne.

"Glad you're so hopeful, mother, but some of us are not," Arthur interjected.

"Then if you fail with His Excellency, Artie," she replied composedly, "I shall go to see him
myself."

Captain and Dowager exchanged glances of admiration.

"Now, there are peculiarities in our trials here, trials of rebels I mean ... I haven't time
to explain them ..." Arthur grinned ... "but they make imperative a certain way of acting,
d'ye see? If I were in Mr. Dillon's place I should try to get one of two things from the American
Minister: either that the Minister notify Her Majesty's government that he will have his representative
at the trial of Ledwith; or, if the trial is begun ... they are very summary at times ... that
the same gentleman inform the government that he will insist on all the forms being observed."

"What effect would these notifications have?" Arthur asked.

"Gad, most wonderful," replied the Captain. "If the Minister got in his warning before the
trial began, there wouldn't be any trial; and if later, the trial would end in acquittal."

Every one looked impressed, so much so that the Captain had to explain.

"I don't know how to explain it to strangers--we all know it here, doncheknow--but in these
cases the different governments always have some kind of an understanding. Ledwith is an American
citizen, for example; he is arrested as an insurgent, no one is interested in him, the government
is in a hurry, a few witnesses heard him talk against the government, and off he goes to jail.
It's a troublesome time, d'ye see? But suppose the other case. A powerful friend interests
the American Minister. That official notifies the proper officials that he is going to watch
the trial. This means that the Minister is satisfied of the man's innocence. Government isn't
going to waste time so, when there are hundreds to be tried and deported. So he goes free.
Same thing if the Minister comes in while the trial is going on, and threatens to review all
the testimony, the procedure, the character of the witnesses. He simply knocks the bottom out
of the case, and the prisoner goes free."

"I see your points," said Arthur, smiling. "I appreciate them. Just the same, we must have
every one working on the case, and if I should fail the others must be ready to play their parts."

"Command us all," said the Captain with spirit. "You have Lord Constantine in London. He's
a host. But remember we are in the midst of the trouble, and home influence won't be a snap
of my finger compared with the word of the Minister."

"Then the Minister's our man," said Anne with decision. "If Arthur fails with him, then every
soul of us must move on London like an Irish army, and win or die. So, my dear Honora, take
the puckers out of your face, and keep your heart light. I know a way to make Quincy Livingstone
dance to any music I play."

The smiles came back to Honora's face, hearts grew lighter, and Arthur started for London,
with little confidence in the good-will of Livingstone, but more in his own ability to force
the gentleman to do his duty. He ran up against a dead wall in his mission, however, for the
question of interference on behalf of American citizens in English jails had been settled months
before in a conference between Livingstone and the Premier, although feeling was cold and almost
hostile between the two governments. Lord Constantine described the position with the accuracy
of a theorist in despair.

"There's just a chance of doing something for Ledwith," he said dolorously.

"By your looks a pretty poor one, I think," Arthur commented.

"Oh, it's got to be done, doncheknow," he said irritably. "But that da--that fool, Livingstone,
is spoiling the stew with his rot. And I've been watching this pot boil for five years at least."

"What's wrong with our representative?" affecting innocence.

"What's right with him would be the proper question," growled his lordship.

"In Ledwith's case the wrong is that he's gone and given assurances to the government. He will
not interfere with their disposition of Fenian prisoners, when these prisoners are American
citizen. In other words, he has given the government a free hand. He will not be inclined to
show Ledwith any favor."

"A free hand," repeated Arthur, fishing for information. "And what is a free hand?"

"Well, he could hamper the government very much when it is trying an American citizen for crimes
committed on British soil. Such a prisoner must get all the privileges of a native. He must
be tried fairly, as he would be at home, say."

"Well, surely that strong instinct of fair play, that sense of justice so peculiarly British,
of which we have all heard in the school-books, would----"

"Drop it," said Lord Constantine fiercely. "In war there's nothing but the brute left. The
Fenians--may the plague take them ... will be hung, shipped to Botany Bay, and left to rot
in the home prisons, without respect to law, privilege, decency. Rebels must be wiped out,
doncheknow. I don't mind that. They've done me enough harm ... put back the alliance ten years
at least ... and left me howling in the wilderness. Livingstone will let every Fenian of American
citizenship be tried like his British mates ... that is, they will get no trial at all, except
inform. They will not benefit by their American ties."

"Why should he neglect them like that?"

"He has theories, of course. I heard him spout them at some beastly reception somewhere. Too
many Irish in America--too strong--too popish--must be kept down--alliance between England
and the United States to keep them down----"

"I remember he was one of your alliance men," provokingly.

"Alas, yes," mourned his lordship. "The Fenians threatened to make mince-meat of it, but they're
done up and knocked down. Now, this Livingstone proposes a new form of mincing, worse than
the Fenians a thousand times, begad."

"Begad," murmured Arthur. "Surely you're getting excited."

"The alliance is now to be argued on the plea of defense against popish aggressions, Arthur.
This is the unkind cut. Before, we had to reunite the Irish and the English. Now, we must soothe
the prejudices of bigots besides. Oh, but you should see the programme of His Excellency for
the alliance in his mind. You'll feel it when you get back home. A regular programme, doncheknow.
The first number has the boards now: general indignation of the hired press at the criminal
recklessness of the Irish in rebelling against our benign rule. When that chorus is ended,
there comes a solo by an escaped nun. Did you ever hear of Sister Claire Thingamy----"

"Saw her--know her--at a distance. What is she to sing?"

"A book--confessions and all that thing--revelations of the horrors of papist life. It's to
be printed by thousands and scattered over the world. After that Fritters, our home historian
at Oxford, is to travel in your county and lecture to the cream of society on the beauty of
British rule over the Irish. He is to affect the classes. The nun and the press are to affect
the masses. Between them what becomes of the alliance? Am I not patient? My pan demanded harmonious
and brotherly feelings among all parties. Isn't that what an alliance must depend on? But Livingstone
takes the other tack. To bring about his scheme we shall all be at each other's throats. Talk
of the Kilkenny cats and Donnybrook fair, begad!"

"I don't wonder you feel so badly," Arthur said, laughing. "But see here: we're not afraid
of Livingstone. We've knocked him out before, and we can do it again. It will be interesting
to go back home, and help to undo that programme. If you can manage him here, rely on Grahame
and me and a few others in New York, to take the starch out of him at home. What's all this
to do with Ledwith?"

"Nothing," said his lordship with an apology. "But my own trouble seems bigger than his. We'll
get him out, of course. Go and see Livingstone, and talk to him on the uppish plan. Demand
the rights and privileges of the British subject for our man. You won't get any satisfaction,
but a stiff talk will pave the way for my share in the scheme. You take the American ground,
and I come in on the British ground. We ought to make him ashamed between us, doncheknow."

Arthur had doubts of that, but no doubt at all that Lord Constantine owned the finest heart
that ever beat in a man. He felt very cheerful at the thought of shaking up the Minister. Half
hopeful of success, curious to test the strings which move an American Minister at the court
of St. James, anxious about Honora and Owen, he presented himself at Livingstone's residence
by appointment, and received a gracious welcome. Unknown to themselves, the two men had an
attraction for each other. Fate opposed them strangely. This hour Arthur Dillon stood forth
as the knight of a despised and desperate race, in a bloody turmoil at home, fighting for a
little space on American soil, hopeful but spent with the labor of upholding its ideals; and
Livingstone represented a triumphant faction in both countries, which, having long made life
bitter and bloody for the Irish, still kept before them the choice of final destruction or
the acceptance of the Puritan gods. To Arthur the struggle so far seemed but a clever game
whose excitement kept sorrow from eating out his heart. He saw the irony rather than the tragedy
of the contest. It tickled him immensely just now that Puritan faced Puritan; the new striking
at the old for decency's sake; a Protestant fighting a Protestant in behalf of the religious
ideals of Papists. He had an advantage over his kinsman beyond the latter's ken; since to him
the humor of the situation seemed more vital than the tragedy, a mistake quite easy to youth.
Arthur stated Ledwith's case beautifully, and asked him to notify the British officials that
the American Minister would send his representative to watch the trial.

"Impossible," said Livingstone. "I am content with the ordinary course for all these cases."

"We are not," replied Arthur as decisively, "and we call upon our government to protect its
citizens against the packed juries and other injustices of these Irish trials."

"And what good would my interference do?" said Livingstone. Arthur grinned.

"Your Excellency, such a notification would open the doors of the jail to Ledwith to-morrow.
There would be no trial."

"My instructions from the President are precise in this matter. We are satisfied that American
citizens will get as fair a trial as Englishmen themselves. There will be no interference until
I am satisfied that things are not going properly."

"Can you tell me, then, how I am to satisfy you in Ledwith's case?" said the young man good-naturedly.

"I don't think you or any one else can, Mr. Dillon. I know Ledwith, a conspirator from his
youth. He is found in Ireland in a time of insurrection. That's quite enough."

"You forget that I have given you my word he was not concerned with the insurrection, and did
not know it was so imminent; that he went to Ireland with his daughter on a business matter."

"All which can be shown at the trial, and will secure his acquittal."

"Neither I nor his daughter will ever be called as witnesses. Instead, a pack of ready informers
will swear to anything necessary to hurry him off to life imprisonment."

"That is your opinion."

"Do you know who sent me here, your Excellency, with the request for your aid?"

Livingstone stared his interrogation.

"An English officer with whom you are acquainted, friendly to Ledwith for some one else's sake.
In plain words, he gave me to understand that there is no hope for Ledwith unless you interfere.
If he goes to trial, he hangs or goes to Botany Bay."

"You are pessimistic," mocked Livingstone. "It is the fault of the Irish that they have no
faith in any government, because they cannot establish one of their own."

"Outside of New York," corrected Arthur, with delightful malice.

"Amendment accepted."

"Would you be able to interfere in behalf of my friend while the trial was on, say, just before
the summing up, when the informers had sworn to one thing, and the witnesses for the defense
to another, if they are not shut out altogether?"

"Impossible. I might as well interfere now."

"Then on the score of sentiment. Ledwith is failing into age. Even a brief term in prison may
kill him."

"He took the risk in returning to Ireland at this time. I would be willing to aid him on that
score, but it would open the door to a thousand others, and we are unwilling to embarrass the
English government at a trying moment."

"Were they so considerate when our moments were trying and they could embarrass us?"

"That is an Irish argument."

