PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 102

APRIL 16, 1892

WRESTLING WITH WHISTLERS.

(A REMINISCENCE OF A RECENT EXHIBITION.)

    SCENE--The Goupil Gallery. Groups of more or less puzzled
    Britons discovered, conscientiously endeavouring to do justice
    to the Collection, having realised that Mr. WHISTLER's work
    is now considered entitled to serious consideration, but
    feeling themselves unable to get beyond a timid tolerance.
    In addition to these, there are Frank Philistines who are
    here with a fixed intention of being funny, Matrons with a
    strongly domesticated taste in Art, Serious Elderly Ladies,
    Literal Persons, &c., &c.

A Lady (after looking at a representation of Old Battersea Bridge--in the tone of a person
who feels she is making a liberal concession). Well, do you know, I must say that isn't so
bad. I shouldn't so much mind having that in the room, should you?

Her Companion (dubiously). Well, I don't know. He's put a steamer in. Should you think there
were steamers in--a--(vaguely)--those days?

First Lady (evidently considering Mr. WHISTLER capable of any eccentricity). Oh, I don't suppose
he would mind that much.

First Literal Person (coming to the portrait of Miss ALEXANDER). Well--(plaintively)--he might
have put a nicer expression on the child!

Second Do. Do. Yes--very unpleasing. (Refers to Catalogue.) Oh, I see it says--"It is simply
a disagreeable presentment of a disagreeable young lady."

First Do. Do. (rejoicing that the painter has vindicated himself this time). Ah--that explains
it, then. Of course if he meant it--!

A Serious Elderly Lady. There's one thing I must say I do like, my dear, and that's the way
he puts down all the unfavourable criticisms on his pictures. So straightforward and honest
of him, I call it.

Her Companion. Yes, but I expect he can't help seeing how right and sensible the critics are,
you know. Still--(charitably)--it shows he would do better if he could!

An Advanced Nephew (who is endeavouring to convert a Philistine Uncle to the superiority of
the Modern School). Now here, Uncle, look at this. Look at the way the figure looms out of
the canvas, look at the learning in the simple sweep of the drapery, the drawing of it, and
the masterly grace of the pose--you don't mean to tell me you don't call that a magnificent
portrait?

His Uncle. Who's it of? That's what I want to know first.

Nephew (coldly). You will find it in the Catalogue, no doubt--No. 41.

Uncle (looking it up). "Arrangement in Black. La Dame au Brodequin Jaune."--the lady in a yellow
something or other. Tchah! And not a word to tell you who she's supposed to be? If I pay a
shilling for a Catalogue, I expect to find information in it. And let me ask you--where's the
interest in looking at a portrait when you're not told who it's intended for?

    [The Nephew, not being prepared to answer this difficult
    query, leads his relative gently up to a "Nocturne in Opal and
    Silver." The Uncle conveys his opinion of it by a loud and
    expressive snort.

First Prosaic Person (before No. 28). Valparaiso, is it? (Hopefully.) Well, come, I ought to
recognise this--I've been there often enough. (Inspecting it closely.) Ha--um!

Second P.P. (with languid interest). Is it like?

First P.P. I could tell you better if he'd done it by daylight. I can't make out this in the
front--looks to me like the top of a house, or something. Don't remember that.

Second P.P. I think it's meant for a jetty, landing-stage, or that sort of thing, and, when
you look into it, there's something that seems intended for people--most extraordinary, isn't it?

The Domesticated Matron (who is searching for a picture with a subject to it). There, CAROLINE,
it's evidently a harbour, you see, and ships, and they're letting off fireworks--probably for
a regatta, Does it tell you what it is in the Catalogue?

Caroline (after consulting it). It only says, "A Nocturne in Blue and Gold"--oh yes--(reading)--"a
splash and splutter of brightness, on a black ground, to depict a display of fireworks."

Her Mother (gratified at her own intelligence). I thought it must be fireworks. He seems quite
fond of fireworks, doesn't he?

First Facetious Philistine. Hullo, what have we got here? "Crepuscule, in Flesh-colour and
Green." Very like one, too, daresay--when you know what it is.

Second F.P. As far as I can make it out, a Crepuscule's either a Harmony inside out, or a Symphony
upside down--it don't much matter.

A Lady (who is laboriously trying to catch the right spirit). "The Blue Wave at Biarritz."
Now I do admire that. And what I like even better than the Blue wave is this great Brown one
breaking in the foreground--so exactly like water, isn't it, DICK?

Dick (not a Whistlerite). Y--yes--just. Only it's a rock, you know.

The Lady. But if that's the way he saw it, DICK!

Dick. Here's a thing! "St. Mark's, Venice." I'll trouble you! What's he done with the flagstaffs
and the bronze horses and the pigeons? I never saw the place look like that.

The Lady. Because it didn't happen to be foggy while we were there, that's all.

First Pros. Person. Ah, there's old CARLYLE, you see! Dear me, what a very badly fitting coat--see
how it bulges over his chest!

Second P.P. Yes. I daresay he buttoned the wrong button--philosopher and all that sort o' thing,
y'know.

First P.P. (sympathetically). Well, I do think WHISTLER might have told him of it!

IN THE SECOND ROOM.

The Matron in Search of a Subject. Ah, now, this really is more my idea of a picture. Quite
a pretty crétonne those curtains, and there's a little girl reading a book, and a looking-glass
with reflections and all, and a young lady in a riding-habit--just going out for a ride.

Caroline. Yes. Mother. Or just come in from one.

Her Mother. Do see what it's called. "The Morning Canter" or "Back from the Row"--something
of that kind, I expect it would be.

Caroline. All it says is, "A Harmony in Green and Rose."

The Mother (disappointed). Now, why can't he give it some sensible name, instead of taking
away all one's interest!

The Phil. Uncle (whom a succession of Symphonies and Harmonies has irritated to the verge of
fury). Don't talk to me, Sir! Don't tell me any of these things are pictures. Look at this--a
young woman in an outlandish dress sitting on the floor--on the bare floor!--in a litter of
Japanese sketches! And he has the confounded impertinence to call it a "Caprice"--a "Caprice
in Purple and Gold." I'd purple and gold him, Sir, if I had my way! Where's the sense in such
things? What do they teach you? What story do they tell? Where's the human interest in them?
Depend upon it, Sir, these things are rubbish--sheer rubbish, according to all my notions of
Art, and I think you'll allow I ought to know something about it?

His Nephew (provoked beyond prudence). You certainly ought to know more than that, my dear
Unc--Are you going?

The Uncle (grimly). Yes--to see my Solicitor, Sir. (To himself, savagely.) That confounded
young prig will find he's paid dear enough for his precious Whistlers--if I don't have a fit
in the cab!

    [He goes; the Nephew wonders whether his attempt at
    proselytising was quite worth while.

A Seriously Elderly Lady. I've no patience with the man. Look at GUTSTAVE DORÉ, now. I'm sure
he was a beautiful artist, if you like. Did he go and call his "Leaving the Prætorium" a "Symphony"
or a "Harmony," or any nonsense of that kind? Of course not--and yet look at the difference!

An Impressionable Person (carried away by the local influence--to the Man at the wicket, blandly).
Could you kindly oblige me by exchanging this "Note in Black and White" for an "Arrangement
in Silver and Gold"?

    [Finds himself cruelly misunderstood, and suspected of
    frivolity.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS.

The Rev. No. 354, writing from Dartmoor, requests us to inform his numerous friends in Bath
and elsewhere that his health is much improved by the bracing air, and that he is occupied
in revising for the press his course of Sermons to the Young on the Moral Virtues. He is also
anxious to inform his creditors that his accounts are now completely in order. It is a source
of great comfort to him to reflect that he was able to obtain considerable sums of money from
his friends in Bath, before he was obliged to leave that city, and that, with the residue of
this money, obtained so to speak from PETER, he will now have the satisfaction of paying a
farthing in the pound to PAUL, in other words, to his creditors.

Mrs. BRINVILLIERS was yesterday visited by her friends. Our readers will be glad to know that
she is quite well and has escaped the influenza epidemic.

Mr. ST. LEONARDS, with the consent of the Governor, takes this opportunity of thanking the
friends who have so kindly condoled with him on the unavoidable interruption to his long and
arduous work in the service of his country. He hopes that nothing will prevent him from displaying
equal zeal in the still more arduous labour, which, also for the benefit of his country, he
is now compelled to undertake for a certain period.

Miss DODGER is still unwell. The HOME SECRETARY has not yet sent instructions for a special
drawing-room to be fitted up in the prison, nor has he, up till now, given any permission for
Miss DODGER's afternoon receptions, and five o'clock teas. It is generally considered that
the probability of his doing so, without a Special Act of Parliament, is still very remote.

       *       *       *       *       *

BROKEN BONDS.

    ["I learn from St. Petersburg, that, last Saturday,
    conferences were begun between Russia and Germany on the
    admission of the former to the new commercial treaties."--The
    Times Paris Correspondent on "Russia and the Central
    Commercial League."]

La Belle France, the Forsaken One, loquitur:--

  What do I hear? Oh, do I hear aright,
    Over the garden wall?
  My latest love, my gallant Muscovite,
    Is this the end, this all?
  My heartbeats fast, a mist obscures my sight.
    Support me, or I fall!

  What can he mean? Whatever is she at?--
    Ah! well I know her game!
  GERMANIA is a vile coquette, a cat.
    Seducing my new flame
  With mercenary lures, and low at that!
    It is a cruel shame!

  But six short months ago and I to him
    Indeed seemed all in all.
  A stalwart lover, though tant soit peu grim,
    I fancied him my thrall.
  And was it after all pretence, or whim?
    Oh, prospect, to appal!

  I know my envious rivals said as much,[1]
    But that I deemed their spite,
  Was't but my money he desired to clutch?
    I lent it--with delight!
  Were his mere venal vows? His bonds but such
    As SAMSON snapped at sight?

  See how she purrs, false puss! She deems her dot
    May well out-glitter mine.
  And he! That slow seductive smile I know.
    At Cronstadt by the brine,
  To that dear dulcet voice, not long ago,
    My ears did I incline.

  Ah! and those fine moustachios' conquering curl
    Subdued my maiden heart.
  For me those tendril-tips he'd twist and twirl,
    Looking so gay, so smart;
  And now he does it for another girl,
    And I--I stand apart.

  Did I not give my heart to him--false one!--
    And also--well, my "stocking"?
  Nor after her "commercial" charms he'll run,
    My modest beauties mocking.
  Hist! I believe of me they're making fun!
    O Ciel! 'tis simply shocking!

  Hist! I can hear her, the sly cat. How fond
    Her glances bold and bright!
  Her bag is brimming, mine's a broken bond.
    I dreamed not me he'd slight
  For such mere bagman beauty, tamely blonde,
    But--ah! was BLOWITZ right?

    [Left doubting.

[Footnote 1: "The success of a Russian Loan is not dearly purchased by a little effusion, which,
after all, commits Russia to nothing." (See Cartoon "Turning the Tables," Sept. 26, 1891.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. VAUGHAN, of Salford, is to be the New Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster. He is a
bright cheerful-looking man now, but it is to be feared that the extra toil and trouble of
London may soon give his features a Care-Vaughan expression.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOUNDS OF SCIENCE.

(FRAGMENT FROM A FIN DE MONDE ROMANCE.)

The Student had read many things, but he had not yet considered the subject of Coal. He knew
that it was expensive, but he had not imagined that there was so little in the world. But he
at length obtained the requisite knowledge, and set to work to put things to-rights. He called
upon the Secretary of a Transatlantic Ocean Steamer Company, and remonstrated with him upon
the waste with which the transactions of his institution were conducted.

"You carry your passengers too rapidly," he observed.

"As how?" asked the Secretary.

"Why I am given to understand that the power generated by the coal gives each person on board
your ships a rate of progression night and day of twenty-four horses."

"And, if it does--what then?"

"Why, it is too much," returned the Student. "All the coal in the world will be exhausted in
something like four or five hundred years; and so, while there is yet time, I had better go
somewhere where coal is a secondary consideration. What shall I do?"

And then the Secretary advised the Student to take a ticket to the Centre of Africa--and the
Student followed his advice. But the day before the boat started, the Student once more appeared.

"I am afraid," said he, "I must ask you for the return of my money. I find that it will be
useless for me to go to the Centre of Africa, as the Sun is about to cease giving warmth."

"Dear me!" cried the Secretary, "I was under the impression that the Sun was timed to last
about one hundred millions of years?"

"It may have been in the far distant past," returned the Student, sadly, "but recent statistics
fix the termination of the Sun's existence at a much nearer date. There is no doubt that the
Sun will not last more than four millions of years, or five millions at longest. Now give me
my money!"

And (of course) the bullion was promptly returned.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. XII.--TO PLAUSIBILITY.

DEAR OLD PLAU,

Hear you have been seen about again with GENIALITY. Poor GENIALITY, it may be admitted, is
often something of a fool when he is by himself, but when you and he begin to hunt in couples,
you are a deadly pair. I once knew a St. Bernard dog--you will perceive the analogy by-and-by--who
lived on terms of friendship with a Skye terrier. By himself Rufus was a mild and inoffensive
giant. He adored the house-cat, and used to help her, in a ponderous way, with the care of
her numerous family. Many a time have I seen him placidly extended before a fire, while puss
used his shaggy body as a sleeping box, and once he was observed to help that anxious tabby-mother
with the toilet of her kittens by licking them carefully all over. At every lick of Rufus's
huge prehensile tongue a kitten was lifted bodily into the air, only, however, to descend washed
and unharmed to the ground. But out of doors, in the society of Flick, Rufus's whole nature
seemed to change. He became a demon-exterminator of cats. Led on by his yelping little friend,
he chased them fiercely to their last retreats, and, if he caught them, masticated them without
mercy. Once too, on a morning that had been appointed for a big covert-shoot, I noticed this
strangely assorted pair come into the breakfast-room panting and dirty. They were not usually
afoot before breakfast. What could their condition mean? A flustered keeper arrived shortly
afterwards and explained everything. "Them two dogs o' yourn, Sir," he said, "the big 'un and
the little 'un, 'ave run all the coverts through. There's not a pheasant left in 'em. They're
sailin' all over the country."

The truth was that Flick had organised the expedition with extraordinary secrecy and cunning.
He had persuaded Rufus to join him, and the result was that we shot forty pheasants instead
of the three hundred on which we had counted.

Now, my dear PLAU, I merely record this little story, and leave you to apply it. But I may
remind you of incidents that touch you more nearly. Do you remember GORTON? Many years ago
GORTON went to Oxford with a brilliant reputation. Every triumph that the University could
confer was held to be within his grasp. His contemporaries looked upon him as a marvellous
being, who was destined to rise to the top of whatever tree he felt disposed to climb. He was
really a delightful fellow, fresh, smiling, expansive, amusing, and his friends all worshipped
him. Of course he went in for the Hertford. His success was certain; it was merely a question
as to who should be second. On the evening before the examination began, there was a strange
commotion in GORTON's College. GORTON, who was supposed to have been reading hard, was found
at about twelve o'clock in the quad in his nightgown. He was on all fours, and was engaged
in eating grass and roaring out ribald snatches of Latin songs in a shrill voice. When the
porter approached him he said he was a hippogriff, and that in another ten minutes he intended
to fly to Iffley and back in half a second. He was carried up to bed raving horribly. On the
following day he grew calmer, and in a week he was himself again. But by that time, of course,
the examination was over, and DUBBIN was soon afterwards announced as the successful competitor.

Judging the past by what I know now, I cannot doubt that the madness of GORTON was what patrons
of the prize-ring call a put-up job, for he never afterwards showed the smallest symptom of
lunacy. He had not worked sufficiently, and knew he must fail. So he became temporarily insane,
to avoid defeat and maintain his reputation for scholarship. He left Oxford without taking
a degree, and owing money right and left--to tradesmen, to his friends, to his tutor. Then
he disappeared for some years.

Next he suddenly cropped up again in Ireland. A small borough constituency had been suddenly
declared vacant. GORTON happened to be staying in the hotel. He promptly offered himself as
a candidate, and plunged with extraordinary vigour into the contest. The way that man fooled
a simple-hearted Irish electorate was marvellous. They came to believe him to be a millionnaire,
a king of finance, a personage at whose nod Statesmen trembled, a being who mingled with all
that was highest and best in the land. He cajoled them, he flattered them, he talked them round
his little finger, he rollicked with them, opened golden vistas of promise to everyone of them,
smiled at their wives, defied the Lord Lieutenant, and was elected by a crushing majority over
a native pork-merchant who had nothing but his straightforward honesty to commend him. Of course
there was a petition, and equally of course GORTON was unseated. Then came the reckoning. GORTON
had apparently intimated that two of the great London political Clubs were so warmly interested
in his candidature as to have undertaken to pay all his expenses. But when application was
made to these institutions, their secretaries professed a complete and chilling ignorance of
GORTON, and the deputation from Ballywhacket, which had gone to London in search of gold, had
to return empty-handed to their native place, after wasting a varied stock of full-flavoured
Irish denunciation on the London pavements. But GORTON was undaunted. He actually published
an address in which he lashed the hateful ingratitude of men who betrayed their friends with
golden words, and abandoned them shamefully in the hour of defeat. But never, so he said, would
he abandon the betrayed electors of Ballywhacket. Others might shuffle, and cheat and cozen,
but he might be counted upon to remain firm, faithful, and incorruptible amidst the seething
waves of political turpitude.

Having issued this, he vanished again, and was heard of no more for six or seven years. Then
he gradually began to emerge again. He was engaged in the completion of an immense work of
genealogical research, which was intended to cast an entirely new light on many obscure incidents
of English history. For this he solicited encouragement--and subscriptions. He enclosed with
his appeals some specimen pages, which appeared to promise marvels of industry and research.
His preface was a wonderful essay, of which a HAYWARD would scarcely have been ashamed. In
this way he gathered a large amount of money from historical enthusiasts with more ardour than
knowledge, and from old friends who, knowing his real ability, believed that he had at last
determined to justify the opinions of him which they had always held and expressed. It is unnecessary
to add that not another line was written. For several years ill health was supposed to hinder
him. We read piteous stories of his struggles against the agonies of neuralgia and rheumatics,
some of us threw good money after bad in the effort to relieve the imaginary sufferer; but
to this day the proofs of PERKIN WARBECK's absolute claim to the throne, and of JACK CADE's
indubitable royal descent remain in the scheming brain of GORTON. Eventually the poor wretch
did die in penury, but over that part of his story I need not linger. The irony of fate ordained
that when he was actually in want he should wish to be thought in possession of a large income.

I knew a Clergyman once--at least I had every reason to believe him to be a lawfully ordained
Minister of the Church of England. He was taken on as temporary Curate in a remote district.
His life, while he remained there, was exemplary. He was untiring in good works; the poor adored
him, the well-to-do honoured him. We all thought him a pattern of unselfish and almost primitive
saintliness, and when he departed from us he went with a silver inkstand, a dining-room clock
and a purse of sovereigns, subscribed for by the parish. The odour of his sanctity had scarcely
evaporated before we discovered, with horror, that the man had never been ordained at all!
He was an impostor, masquerading under an assumed name, but while he was with us he did good
and lived a flawless life. These matters puzzle me. Perhaps you, my dear PLAU, can explain.

Yours, DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

A RATHER LARGE ORDER.--Amongst the many suggested plans for housing the collection of pictures
once offered by Mr. TATE to the Nation, is a scheme for turning the Banqueting-hall at Whitehall
to a useful and good account. As a thoughtful Artist has observed in this connection, "At this
moment the spacious building is tied round the necks of the Members of the United Service Institution
like a white elephant."

       *       *       *       *       *

A MONEY-LENDER said he had never been inside a Church since the day he looked in at hymn-time,
and heard them singing, "With one per cent. let all the earth," and he didn't want to hear anymore.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRYING TO THE TEMPER.--Mrs. R. says nothing can induce her to eat cross buns, as they are sure
to disagree with her.

