"Sir," saith she, "I know as well as you what the enterprise is, nor do I no whit desire your
death, for, and were you dead, never would the knight be whole for whose sake you undertake
it.  And you will see the fairest damsel that is in any kingdom, and the one that most desireth
to see you.  And, so you tarry not, through her shall you lightly get done that you have to
do.  See now that you delay it not, but do that is needful swiftly sith that it hath been laid
upon you, for the longer you tarry, the greater will be the hazard of mischance befalling you."

The damsel departeth from the court and taketh her leave and goeth her way back as fast as
she may, and saith to herself: "Lancelot, albeit you have these pains and this travail for
me, yet would I not your death herein, but of right ought I to rejoice in your tribulation,
for into two of the most perilous places in the world are you going. Greatly ought I to hate
you, for you reft me of my friend and gave him to another, and while I live may I never forget it."

The damsel goeth her way, and Lancelot departeth from the court and taketh leave of the King
and of all the others.  He issueth forth of Cardoil, all armed, and entereth into the forest
that is deep, and so goeth forth a great pace, and prayeth God guide him into safety.

BRANCH XXIX.

TITLE I.

Therewithal the story is silent of Lancelot, and saith that Briant of the Isles is repaired
to Cardoil.  Of the forty knights that he took with him, but fifteen doth he bring back again.
Thereof is King Arthur right sorrowful, and saith that he hath the fewer friends.  They of
the land of Albanie have sent to King Arthur and told him that and he would not lose the land
for evermore he must send them Lancelot, for never saw they knight that better knew how to
avenge him on his enemies and to do them hurt than was he.  The King asketh Briant of the Isles
how it is that his knights are dead in such sort?

"Sir," saith Briant, "Madeglant hath great force of people, and what force of men soever may
run upon them, they make a castle of their navy in such sort that none may endure against them,
and never did no folk know so much of war as do they.  The land lieth far away from you, and
more will it cost you to hold it than it is worth; and, if you will believe my counsel, you
will trouble yourself no more about it, and they of the country would be well counselled and
they did the same."

"Briant," saith the King, "This would be great blame to myself. No worshipful man ought to
be idle in guarding and holding that which is his own.  The worshipful man ought not to hold
of things so much for their value as for their honour, and if I should leave the land disgarnished
of my aid and my counsel, they will take mine, and will say that I have not heart to protect
my land; and even now is it great shame to myself that they have settled themselves there and
would fain draw away them of the land to their evil law.  And I would fain that Lancelot had
achieved that he hath undertaken, and I would have sent him there, for none would protect the
land better than he, and, were he now there along with forty knights and with them of the country,
Madeglant would make but short stay there."

"Sir," saith Briant, "They of the country reckon nought of you nor any other but Lancelot only,
and they say that and you send him there they will make him King."

"It may well be that they say so," saith the King, "But never would Lancelot do aught that
should be against my will."

"Sir," saith Briant, "Sith that you are not minded to believe me, I will say no more in this
matter, but in the end his knighthood will harm you rather than help you and you take no better
heed thereof than up to this time you have done."

BRANCH XXX.

TITLE I.

Of Briant of the Isles the story is here silent, whom King the believeth too much in many things,
and saith that Lancelot goeth his way right through the forest, full heavy in thought.  He
had not ridden far when he met a knight that was right sore wounded. He asked him whence he
came and who had wounded him in such manner.

"Sir," saith he, "I come from the Chapel Perilous, where I was not able to defend me against
an evil folk that appeared there; and they have wounded me in such sort as you see, and but
for a damsel that came thereinto from the forest I should not have escaped on live.  But she
aided me on such condition that and I should see a knight they call Lancelot, or Perceval,
or Messire Gawain, I should tell which of them soever I should first meet withal that he should
go to her without delay, for much she marvelleth her that none of them cometh into the chapel,
for none ought to enter there but good knights only.  But much do I marvel, Sir, how the damsel
durst enter there, for it is the most marvellous place that is, and the damsel is of right
great beauty; natheless she cometh thither oftentimes alone into the chapel.  A knight lieth
in the chapel that hath been slain of late, that was a fell and cruel knight and a hardy."

"What was his name?" saith Lancelot.

"He was named Ahuret the Bastard," saith the knight; "And he had but one arm and one hand,
and the other was smitten off at a castle that Messire Gawain gave Meliot of Logres when he
succoured him against this knight that lieth in the coffin.  And Meliot of Logres hath slain
the knight that had assieged the castle, but the knight wounded him sore, so that he may not
be whole save he have the sword wherewith he wounded him, that lieth in the coffin at his side,
and some of the cloth wherein he is enshrouded; and, so God grant me to meet one of the knights,
gladly will I convey unto him the damsel's message."

"Sir Knight," saith Lancelot, "One of them have you found.  My name is Lancelot, and for that
I see you are wounded and in evil plight, I tell it you thus freely."

"Sir," saith the knight, "Now may God protect your body, for you go in great peril of death.
But the damsel much desireth to see you, I know not for what, and well may she aid you if she
will."

II.

"Sir Knight, God hath brought us forth of many a peril, and so will He also from this and it
be His pleasure and His will."

With that, Lancelot departeth from the knight, and hath ridden so far that he is come at evensong
to the Chapel Perilous, that standeth in a great valley of the forest, and hath a little churchyard
about it that is well enclosed on all sides, and hath an ancient cross without the entrance.
The chapel and the graveyard are overshadowed of the forest, that is right tall. Lancelot entereth
therein all armed.  He signeth him of the cross and blesseth him and commendeth him to God.
He seeth in the grave-yard coffins in many places, and it seemeth him that he seeth folk round
about that talk together, the one with another. But he might not hear that they said.  He might
not see them openly, but very tall they seemed him to be.  He is come toward the chapel and
alighteth of his horse, and seeth a shed outside the chapel, wherein was provender for horses.
He goeth thither to set his own there, then leaneth his shield against his spear at the entrance
of the chapel, and entereth in, where it was very dark, for no light was there save only of
a single lamp that shone full darkly.  He seeth the coffin that was in the midst of the chapel
wherein the knight lay.

III.

When he had made his orison before an image of Our Lady, he cometh to the coffin and openeth
it as fast as he may, and seeth the knight, tall and foul of favour, that therein lay dead.
The cloth wherein he was enshrouded was displayed all bloody.  He taketh the sword that lay
at his side and lifteth the windingsheet to rend it at the seam, then taketh the knight by
the head to lift him upward, and findeth him so heavy and so ungain that scarce may he remove
him.  He cutteth off the half of the cloth wherein he is enshrouded, and the coffin beginneth
to make a crashing so passing loud that it seemed the chapel were falling. When he hath the
piece of the cloth and the sword he closeth the coffin again, and forthwith cometh to the door
of the chapel and seeth mount, in the midst of the grave-yard as it seemed him, great knights
and horrible, and they are appareled as it were to combat, and him thinketh that they are watching
for him and espy him.

IV.

Thereupon, behold you, a damsel running, her kirtle girt high about her, right through the
grave-yard a great pace.

"Take heed you move not until such time as it is known who the knight is!"  She is come to
the chapel.  "Sir Knight, lay down the sword and this that you have taken of the windingsheet
of the dead knight!"

"Damsel," saith Lancelot, "What hurt doth it you of this that I have?"

"This," saith she, "That you have taken it without my leave; for I have him in charge, both
him and the chapel.  And I would fain," saith she, "know what is your name?"

"Damsel," saith he, "What would you gain of knowing my name?"

"I know not," saith she, "whether I shall have either loss or gain thereof, but high time already
is it that I should ask you it to my sorrow, for many a time have I been deceived therein."

"Damsel," saith he, "I am called Lancelot of the Lake."

"You ought of right," saith she, "to have the sword and the cloth; but come you with me to
my castle, for oftentimes have I desired that you and Perceval and Messire Gawain should see
the three tombs that I have made for your three selves."

V.

"Damsel," saith he, "No wish have I to see my sepulchre so early betimes."

"By my head," saith she, "And you come not thither, you may not issue from hence without tribulation;
and they that you see there are earthly fiends that guard this grave-yard and are at my commandment."

"Never, damsel, please God," saith Lancelot, "may your devils have power to harm a Christian."

"Ha, Lancelot," saith she, "I beseech and pray you that you come with me into my castle, and
I will save your life as at this time from this folk that are just now ready to fall upon you;
and, so you are not willing to do this, yield me back the sword that you have taken from the
coffin, and go your way at once."

"Damsel," saith Lancelot, "Into your castle may I not go, nor desire I to go, wherefore pray
me no more thereof, for other business have I to do; nor will I yield you back the sword, whatsoever
may befall me, for a certain knight may not otherwise be healed, and great pity it were that
he should die."

"Ha, Lancelot," saith she, "How hard and cruel do I find you towards me!  And as good cause
have I to be sorry that you have the sword as have you to be glad.  For, and you had not had
it upon you, never should you have carried it off from hence at your will; rather should I
have had all my pleasure of you, and I would have made you be borne into my castle, from whence
never should you nave moved again for nought you might do; and thus should I have been quit
of the wardenship of this chapel and of coming thereinto in such manner as now oftentimes I
needs must come.

VI.

"But now am I taken in a trap, for, so long as you have the sword, not one of them that are
there yonder can do you evil nor hinder you of going."

Of this was Lancelot not sorry.  He taketh leave of the damsel, that departeth grudgingly,
garnisheth him again of his arms, then mounteth again on his horse and goeth his way right
through the grave-yard.  He beholdeth this evil folk, that were so foul and huge and hideous,
it seemed as if they would devour everything. They made way for Lancelot, and had no power
to hurt him.  He is issued forth of the grave-yard and goeth his way through the forest until
daylight appeared about him, fair and clear.  He found the hermit there where he had heard
mass, then ate a little, then departed and rode the day long until setting of the sun, but
could find no hold on the one side nor the other wherein he might lodge, and so was benighted
in the forest.

VII.

Lancelot knew not which way to turn, for he had not often been in the forest, and knew not
how the land lay nor the paths therein. He rode until he found a little causeway, and there
was a path at the side that led to an orchard that was at a corner of the forest, where there
was a postern gate whereby one entered, and it was not made fast for the night.  And the orchard
was well enclosed with walls.  Lancelot entered in and made fast the entrance, then took off
his horse's bridle and let him feed on the grass.  He might not espy the castle that was hard
by for the abundance of trees and the darkness of the night, and so knew not whither he was
arrived.  He laid his shield for a pillow and his arms at his side and fell on sleep.  But,
had he known where it was he had come, little sleep would he have had, for he was close to
the cavern where he slew the lion and where the griffons were, that had come in from the forest
all gorged of victual, and were fallen on sleep, and it was for them that the postern gate
had been left unbolted.  A damsel went down from a chamber by a trapdoor with a brachet on
her arm for fear of the griffons, and as she went toward the postern-gate to lock it, she espied
Lancelot, that lay asleep in the midst of the orchard.  She ran back to her Lady the speediest
she might, and said unto her: "Up, Lady!" saith she, "Lancelot is sleeping in the orchard!"

She leapt up incontinent and came to the orchard there where Lancelot was sleeping, then sate
her down beside him and began to look at him, sighing the while, and draweth as near him as
she may.

"Fair Lord God," saith she, "what shall I do?  and I wake him first he will have no care to
kiss me, and if I kiss him sleeping he will awake forthwith; and better hap is it for me to
take the most I may even in such-wise than to fail of all, and, moreover, if so be I shall
have kissed him, I may hope that he will not hate me thereof, sith that I may then boast that
I have had at least so much of that which is his own."

She set her mouth close to him and so kissed him the best and fairest she might, three times,
and Lancelot awakened forthwith. He leapt up and made the cross upon him, then looked at the
damsel, and said: "Ha, God!  where, then, am I?"

"Fair sweet friend," saith she, "You are nigh her that hath all set her heart upon you and
will remove it never."

"I cry you mercy, damsel," saith Lancelot, "and I tell you, for nought that may befall, one
that loveth me, please God, never will I hate! but that which one hath loved long time ought
not so soon to fall away from the remembrance of a love that is rooted in the heart, when she
hath been proven good and loyal, nor ought one so soon to depart therefrom."

VIII.

"Sir," saith she, "This castle is at your commandment, and you will remain therein, and well
may you know my thought towards you.  Would that your thought were the same towards me."

"Damsel," saith he, "I seek the healing of a knight that may not be healed save I bring him
the head of one of your serpents."

"Certes, Sir, so hath it been said.  But I bade the damsel say so only for that I was fain
you should come back hither to me."

"Damsel," saith he, "I have come back hither, and so may I turn back again sith that of the
serpent's head is there no need."

"Ha, Lancelot," saith she, "How good a knight are you, and how ill default do you make in another
way!  No knight, methinketh, is there in the world that would have refused me save only you.
This cometh of your folly, and your outrage, and your baseness of heart!  The griffons have
not done my will in that they have not slain you or strangled you as you slept, and, so I thought
that they would have power to slay you, I would make them come to slay you now.  But the devil
hath put so much knighthood into you that scarce any man may have protection against you. 
Better ought I to love you dead than alive.  By my head, I would fain that your head were hanged
with the others that hang at the entrance of the gateway, and, had I thought you would have
failed me in such wise I would have brought my father hither to where you were sleeping, and
right gladly would he have slain you."

IX.

"None that knoweth the covenant between me and you ought to hold you for a good knight; for
you have cozened me of my right according to the tenor and custom of the castle if that through
perversity or slothfulness you durst not take me when you have won me."

"Damsel," saith Lancelot, "You may say your will.  You have done so much for me sithence that
I came hither that I ought not to be afeard of you, for traitor is the man or woman that kisseth
another to procure his hurt."

"Lancelot, I took but that I might have, for well I see that none more thereof may I have never
again."

He goeth to put the bridle on his destrier, and then taketh leave of the damsel, that parteth
from him right sorrowfully; but Lancelot would no longer tarry, for great throng of knights
was there in the castle, and he was not minded to put him in jeopardy for nought.  He issueth
forth of the orchard, and the damsel looketh after him as long as she may see him.  After that,
cometh she to her chamber, sad and vexed at heart, nor knoweth she how she may bear herself,
for the thing in the world that most she loveth is far away, and no joy may she have thereof.

X.

Lancelot rideth right amidst the forest until it is day, and cometh at the right hour of noon
to the Castle Perilous, where Meliot of Logres lay.  He entered into the castle.  The damsel
that was at King Arthur's court cometh to meet him.

"Lancelot," saith she, "Welcome may you be!"

"Damsel," saith he, "Good adventure may you have!"

He was alighted at the mountingstage of the hall.  She maketh him mount up the steps and afterward
be disarmed.

"Damsel," saith he, "Behold, here is some of the winding-sheet wherein the knight was shrouded,
and here is his sword; but you befooled me as concerning the serpent's head."

"By my head," saith the damsel, "that did I for the sake of the damsel of the Castle of Griffons
that hateth you not a whit, for so prayed she me to do.  Now hath she seen you, and so will
she be more at ease, and will have no cause to ask me thereof."

XI.

The damsel leadeth Lancelot to where Meliot of Logres lay. Lancelot sitteth him down before
him and asketh how it is with him?

"Meliot," saith the damsel, "This is Lancelot, that bringeth you your healing."

"Ha, Sir, welcome may you be!"

"God grant you health speedily," said Lancelot.

"Ha, for God's sake," saith Meliot, "What doth Messire Gawain? Is he hearty?"

"I left him quite hearty when I parted from him," saith Lancelot, "And so he knew that you
had been wounded in such sort, full sorry would he be thereof and King Arthur likewise."

"Sir," saith he, "The knight that assieged them maimed me in this fashion, but was himself
maimed in such sort that he is dead thereof. But the wounds that he dealt me are so cruel and
so raging, that they may not be healed save his sword toucheth them and if be not bound with
some of the winding-sheet wherein he was shrouded, that he had displayed about him, all bloody."

"By my faith," saith the damsel, "Behold them here!"

"Ha, Sir," saith he, "Gramercy of this great goodness!  In every way appeareth it that you
are good knight, for, but for the goodness of your knighthood, the coffin wherein the knight
lieth had never opened so lightly, nor would you never have had the sword nor the cloth, nor
never till now hath knight entered therein but either he were slain there, or departed thence
wounded right grievously."

They uncover his wounds, and Lancelot unbindeth them, and the damsel toucheth him of the sword
and the winding-sheet, and they are assuaged for him.  And he saith that now at last he knoweth
well he need not fear to die thereof.  Lancelot is right joyful thereof in his heart, for that
he seeth he will be whole betimes; and sore pity had it been of his death, for a good knight
was he, and wise and loyal.

XI.

"Lancelot," saith the lady, "Long time have I hated you on account of the knight that I loved,
whom you reft away from me and married to another and not to me, and ofttimes have I put myself
to pains to grieve you of some ill deed for that you did to me, for never was I so sorrowful
for aught that befell me.  He loved me of right great love, and I him again, and never shall
that love fail.  But now is it far further away from me than it was before, and for this bounty
that you have done, never hereafter need you fear aught of my grievance."

"Damsel," saith Lancelot, "Gramercy heartily."

He was lodged in the castle the night richly and worshipfully, and departed thence on the morrow
when he had taken leave of the damsel and Meliot, and goeth back a great pace toward the court
of King Arthur, that was sore dismayed, for Madeglant was conquering his islands and great
part of his land.  The more part of the lands that he conquered had renounced the New Law for
fear of death and held the false believe. And Messire Gawain and many other knights were departed
from King Arthur's court for that the King trusted more in Briant of the Isles than he did in them.

XIII.

For many times had King Arthur sent knights against Madeglant since Lancelot was departed from
the court, to the intent that they should put to rebuke the enemies of his land, but never
saw he one come back from thence nought discomfited.  The King of Oriande made much boast that
he would fulfil for his sister all that she had bidden him, for he thought that King Arthur
would yield himself up betimes unto him and yield all his land likewise.  The King greatly
desired the return of Lancelot, and said ofttimes that and he had been against his enemies
as nigh as the others he had sent they would not have durst so to fly against him.  In the
midst of the dismay wherein was King Arthur, Lancelot returned to the court, whereof was the
King right joyous. Lancelot knew that Messire Gawain and Messire Ywain were not there, and
that they held them aloof from the court more willingly than they allowed on account of Briant
of the Isles, that King Arthur believed in more than ever a one of the others. He was minded
to depart in like sort, but the King would not let him, but said to him rather, "Lancelot,
I pray and beseech you, as him that I love much, that you set your pains and your counsel on
defending my land, for great affiance have I in you."

"Sir," saith Lancelot, "My aid and my force shall fail you never; take heed that yours fail
not me."

"Of right ought I not to fail you," saith the King, "Nor will I never, for I should fail myself
thereby."

XIV.

