The grand front, seen from the Green Park, has a handsome appearance, and the architecture
is simply elegant. Viewed in association with the costly arch entrance to the Gardens of Buckingham
Palace, and the classic screen and gates to Hyde Park--the New Hospital gives rise to a grateful
recollection of national benevolence as well as cultivation of fine art--of soothing life's
ills as well as embellishing its enjoyments--in short, of nurturing the first and best feelings
of our nature as well as encouraging taste and talent. May England never halt in raising such
monuments of her real greatness!

       *       *       *       *       *

SUNSET THOUGHTS.

(For the Mirror.)

  I've stood to gaze on the sunset hill,
  When the winds were hush'd and the waves were still;
  As the sun sank slowly down the west,
  I thought of the good man dropping to rest,
  When his race is run--he yields his breath,
  And softly sinks in the slumber of death.

  When I gazed on the gorgeous western sky,
  I thought of those blissful bowers on high,
  Whose brightness--blessedness serene,
  Ear hath not heard--eye hath not seen.

  When I saw the golden glories die,
  I thought on life's uncertainty,
  And as night came on in her ebon gloom,
  Oh! I thought of the dark and the dreamless tomb,
  How soon man's fairest prospects flee,
  The curtain drops--"And where is he?"

  COLBOURNE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOLDEN BODKIN.

An Illustration of Sayings and Doings.

(For the Mirror.)

It was the vesper-hour when the lovely Lady Victorine entered the church of St. Genevieve with
her liege lord the Marquess de Montespan, and proceeding slowly down a side aisle of that magnificent
fane, prostrated herself upon the steps of an altar of black marble, upon which burned in silver
cassolettes, two small glimmering fires, sparingly fed with frankincense, and serving rather
to render visible, than to illumine the gloom of the niche in which the altar stood; whilst
the tapers which twinkled like glow-worms here and there in the body of the spacious temple,
indicated the presence of worshippers, who, in the uncertain and vasty darkness, were scarcely
beheld. The Marquess de Montespan kneeled beside his fair lady, and a couple of domestics at
a respectful distance from the noble pair, whilst the solemn pealing of the organ intermingled
with the low murmurings of human voices, and the sweet, full-toned responses of the choir,
aided and attested the devotion of those who now attended vespers in the church of St. Genevieve.
The sacred service was nearly concluded, when the attention of the congregation was painfully
diverted from the solemn duty in which they were engaged, by thrilling shrieks proceeding from
one of the side aisles, and an uncommon stir and tumult about the dark oratory of the Montespans,
to which, therefore, a crowd was presently attracted. Alas! for the brevity and vanity of human
life! The marquess, who had but so short a time since entered the church in manly prime, health,
and strength, and in the full flush of happiness and hope, now suddenly, ay, even as he knelt
beside his beautiful wife, and even as their spirits mingled in the same acts of devotion,
the marquess now, struck by the angel of death, laid cold, senseless, and motionless, in the
arms of his servants, who were vainly endeavouring to recall that vital spark which was totally
extinct. Victorine, the young and lovely marchioness, thus suddenly and awfully reduced to
widowhood, had fallen into such violent hysterics, as to render the task of supporting her
almost dangerous to a noble youth who had voluntarily undertaken it. The consternation of the
spectators at this tragical spectacle may be well imagined; but some two or three of them had,
nevertheless, presence of mind sufficient to fetch a physician, and after medical aid had somewhat
restored to composure the unhappy Victorine, she, with her deceased husband, upon whom, alas,
all efforts of art had been bestowed in vain, was carefully conveyed to the Hotel de Montespan.
Upon the breast of the Comte de Villeroi had the head of the afflicted marchioness rested,
in the eventful hour of her sad bereavement, and in less than six months did he supply to her
the place of her departed lord. This event occurred, it was then deemed, prematurely, and the
precise and censorious blamed the indelicate haste with which Victorine had exchanged her weeds
for bridal attire; but the kind-hearted observed, "Poor young creature, all Paris knows that
Villeroi was the elected of her heart, long ere she was forced into a marriage with Montespan;
no wonder therefore is it, that the first act of her recovered liberty should be, that of throwing
herself into his arms;" so, "all Paris," after this appeal to its knowledge of private history,
and best sympathies, could do no less than take the charitable side of the question, and Madame
la Comtesse de Villeroi was allowed, unmolested by the voice of public censure, to reign awhile
as bride and belle in the high circles which her beauty and agreeable qualities so well fitted
her to adorn. Ere long, however, it was surmised that Victorine found herself not quite so
happy in her union with the object of her first affection as she had anticipated she should
be; she was pale, spiritless, and absent; sometimes started when addressed, as if only accustomed
to the accents of authority unmingled with kindness; her cheeks were hollow, her eyes sunken
and ray-less, and her smile was the very mockery of mirth; evidently she was not happy, and
the apparently affectionate attentions lavished upon her by the comte, tended not to diminish
suspicions that he was not altogether so amiable at home, as he took pains to appear in society.
However, balls and fêtes followed the union of the young couple very gaily for some months,
and everybody said that the Comtesse de Villeroi, rich, beautiful, and beloved, ought to be
the happiest creature in existence.

Something more than a year after the demise of the Marquess de Montespan, Paris was thrown
into considerable consternation by a report originating with some of the petty officers of
the sacred establishment, that the church of St. Genevieve was haunted; old Albert Morel, the
sexton, protesting upon the faith of a good Catholic, that he had heard, when occasionally
in the church, alone, a strange rattling noise proceed from the vaults beneath it. "What this
could be," he remarked, "was past comprehension, unless it were ghosts playing at skittles
with their own dead bones." Some people laughed at this idea, and some sapiently shaking their
heads, declared with ominous looks, that Morel was no fool, but knew what he knew, whilst every
one agreed that some foundation, at least there must be, for the fearful tale. At length, in
the church of St. Genevieve, it became necessary for the interment of some individual of rank,
to open the very vault from whence seemed chiefly or entirely to proceed the strange and alarming
sounds, and this happened to be that, in which were deposited the mortal remains of the Marquess
de Montespan; from his coffin, (a mere wooden shell,) it was now ascertained that the rattling
proceeded, and as upon inspection, a hole was observed to have been drilled in the wood, as
if by the teeth of some animal, it was judged expedient to open and examine it further. The
remains of the marquess were discovered in a state of dry decomposition, with his head as completely
severed from his body as if by the stroke of the axe; but, horror of horrors! that head, that
skeleton skull, moved, as those who opened the coffin stood to gaze on its revolting contents,
and rolled to and fro by itself! Dismay seized the spectators, who were about to rush in disorder
from the spot, when one more courageous than the rest, laying hold of the skull, shook it violently
for some moments, when, from one of the eye-sockets dangled the tail of a rat! The cause of
the strange sounds heard by Morel and others, connected with the church of St. Genevieve, was
now obvious; the voracious animal had entered when lean and small, into the head of the deceased
marquess, by the eye, but after revelling upon the brain of the unfortunate defunct for some
time, had increased to a size which rendered its exit by the same passage impossible, and its
efforts at extrication from horrible thraldom, caused the rattling of the disjoined head in
the coffin. It was proposed to saw asunder the skull, in order to free the creature, and the
advice of Albert Morel, that the operation should be performed by one of the medical fraternity,
who might be glad to witness the fact of a rat being imprisoned in a human head, was cheerfully
taken. Some, however, objected to its being done, without application for leave having been
first made to the Comtesse de Villeroi, as one to whom the proprietorship of her deceased husband's
remains naturally and solely appertained, and who might feel it as a cruel insult towards herself,
and a sacrilegious violation of the grave of her first lord, the consigning without her knowledge
and permission, any part of his body to the hands of a surgeon. "Tush!" quoth old Morel, "all
nonsense that! for if one may believe what has long been town-talk, 'tis little that madame
will care for her dead husband now she has a living one who pleases her better than ever he
could do, poor man!" The sexton's arguments were conclusive, and it was agreed at last, that
the skull should be carried to Monsieur Nicolais, the celebrated surgeon, who had unavailingly
attempted by bleeding, to recover the late marquess from the apoplexy which carried him off.

A large and brilliant party had assembled at the chateau de Vermont, the residence of the gay
and opulent Comte de Villeroi and his lady, to celebrate the christening of their first born,
when in the midst of a splendid banquet, an alarm was given that the house was surrounded by
police and gens d'armes, who required in the king's name a surrender of the persons of the
Comte and Comtesse de Villeroi, they standing attainted of foul and treasonable murder! The
confusion and dismay which seized all parties upon this terrible catastrophe, it is impossible
to describe; but it suffices to state, that the Comte de Villeroi was impeached for, and fully
committed for trial on the charge of having feloniously aided and abetted Victorine de Villeroi,
(late Montespan,) in wilfully and maliciously causing the death of her late liege husband,
Herbert de Montespan, by thrusting a long pin, or bodkin of gold into his right ear, well knowing
that the same entering into his brain, would cause his instantaneous dissolution. Master Nicolais,
it appeared, in sawing open the skull of the deceased with anatomical science and precision,
had found a pin or Golden Bodkin like that described in the indictment, and like what were
at this period much used by ladies in fastening up their hair, bearing the initials, V.M. which
he perceived had been violently thrust through the orifice of the ear, into the brain of the
unfortunate victim. This inference as to the fiendish murderer was inevitable, and just; and
the horror-struck practitioner scrupled not to incite the relations of the late marquess to
summon witnesses, and lay a criminal information against Victorine de Villeroi as principal
in, and Armand de Villeroi as accessary to, this abominable transaction. Upon trial, the innocence
of the Comte, as to the slightest knowledge of his wife's secret and heinous crime, was so
apparent that it ensured him an honourable acquittal; but the guilt of that wretched woman
being established beyond all doubt by the evidence of the goldsmith who had made for her, and
engraved her initials upon, the Golden Bodkin, of the domestics who had seen her when their
master fell asleep during the vespers at St. Genevieve, put her hand beneath his head as if
with the intent of waking, and raising him up, and subsequently by her own confession, her
guilt was thus incontrovertibly established. She suffered those extreme penalties of the law
which the heinous nature of her crime demanded, and fully justified.

This historiette, in the leading incidents of which, every Frenchman at all acquainted with
the Causes Cèlèbres of his country, will detect matters of fact, we have "made a prief of in
our notebook," as one of those interesting cases, (not less remarkable because of rather frequent
occurrence) which incontestably prove, that under the just government of the Omniscient, who
hath willed that "Whosoever sheddeth the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed."--Murder
will out!

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLAND.

Dr. Lardner has commenced a "Library," as a kind of succedaneum to his valuable "Cyclopaedia."
Both are styled Cabinet, and the first may be considered an amplification of the second. Two
of the Cabinet Library volumes contain a Retrospect of Public Affairs for 1831--not a chronology
of shreds and patches, but a well-digested review of the great events of the year--and important
indeed they are. The work is the quintessence of an "Annual Register:" it is not so porous
and pursy as the last mentioned book, but is a pleasant volume to put in one's pocket and read
inside a coach, if the passengers will allow you to do so; and it seems to be a good book for
newspaper readers, to arrange their head-pieces, for they are usually crammed with all kinds
of recollections, and have but few right-set views. We do not content ourselves with saying
the Retrospect is well written, but quote a proof of equal length and interest--for it relates
to a country whose fate is anxiously watched by all Europe, nay, by all the world. It is from
the author's Chapter on the State of Poland. After some pages on the oppressed Poles, the writer
proceeds:--

"Thus the army, both in its numbers and management, was entirely at the mercy and under the
direction of Muscovite despotism; the resources of the state were employed, without the legal
control of the diet, to strengthen Russian tyranny, the press was enslaved, that no remonstrance
might be made against Russian oppression; the citizens were arrested, imprisoned, and punished
by a Russian military chieftain, without being brought to trial before the proper native tribunals;
the legislative chambers were deprived of their just prerogatives; the national customs, habits,
and feelings were hourly insulted; the citizens were beset with an infamous police, an deprived
even of the melancholy consolation of complaint; thus, in short, every Polish right was violated--every
article of the charter broken--and the whole efforts of an imperial savage, at the head of
a strong military force, directed to efface from the countrymen of the Sobieskis and Kosciuszkos
all the remains of the Polish character.

"This, it must be allowed, is a picture of tyranny and misgovernment sufficiently appalling
to justify the resistance of any people, but more especially that of a people which had long
been accustomed to even a licentious freedom, which was proud of its national honour and ancient
renown; which entertained such a veneration for its laws and usages as to preserve for two
centuries the liberum veto and the rights of elective monarchy, the source of all its calamities;
and which had the positive stipulations of its sovereign for the preservation of its national
rights. But, like most general pictures, its impression may be diminished by its generality.
We shall therefore make no apology for introducing, on the authority of an Englishman who had
been twelve years in Poland, a few facts to give the character of precision and truth to the
outline. In the fortress of Zamosc twelve state prisoners were found, some of whom had been
incarcerated for six years without having undergone a trial, and whose names were only known
to the commander of the castle. In the dungeons of Marienanski, in Warsaw, was found a victim
of the Russian police, who had been kept in solitary confinement for ten years, and whose fate
was entirely unknown to his friends and relatives. Respectable inhabitants of Warsaw were often
taken and flogged before the grand duke without the formality of a trial, or the specification
of a charge. Some were even, in the same unlawful manner, made to break stones or wheel barrows
on the streets or highways like galley slaves. Persons of rank were frequently taken from their
homes, immured in prison, and dismissed after several weeks' incarceration without knowing
what alleged offence had provoked such a wanton exercise of power contrary to the charter and
the privileges of Poland; state offenders were carried out of the country to Russian prisons
and attempts were made to give them a journey to Siberia, which were only prevented by the
threat of suicide on the part of the victims. The resources of the kingdom were squandered
entirely for Russian objects; and the people were oppressed to maintain a Polish and a Russian
army. Peculation and pillage was the order of the day. The president of the town of Warsaw,
with a salary of between 500l. and 600l. contrived to amass a fortune of 100,000l. in fifteen
years, besides living in splendour and squandering twice his legal income. The same unprincipled
peculation was practised by other municipal or state officers. The Russian generals were in
league with the magistrates and billet-master, to divide the booty received from the inhabitants
as the price of exemption from the oppressive quartering of troops on their houses. Spies were
employed by the police to watch every man of the least consequence in society, and the nobility
were often driven to the country to avoid such dangerous intruders. In several instances members
of the diet were banished to their estates, and made to pay the troops that guarded them, for
having ventured in the assembly, whose discussions ought to have been free, to express a suspicion
of the government, or to hint an opinion contrary to the taste of the grand duke.

"The following statement of facts on this head, to which we have seen no allusion made in the
public prints, but the authenticity of which may be relied on, will give a better idea of the
system of Russian government in Poland than any general description could convey. We have received
it from the quarter to which we have above alluded:--

"According to the laws of Poland, a commission, chosen by the citizens, has the right of examining
and auditing the accounts of the town. From the tyrannical system adopted by the officers who
were continually about the person of the grand duke, they dared not perform their duty from
fear of his displeasure, and probably, at the instigation of the miscreants around him, being
consigned to a prison; remonstrances were, however, generally made at the half-yearly meeting
of the commission; though, up to the period immediately before the revolution, nothing was
done to check the evil. In the month of September a circumstance occurred, not important in
itself, but of great weight in the future course of events. Janiszewski, a cidevant officer
in the army, had sent several petitions to the president of the town, which were treated with
neglect and insult. He and the president met in the street, when the latter again insulted
him. This was immediately resented by the former, who inflicted severe corporal chastisement
on the latter. The grand duke refused to interfere in the affair. A trial ensued, in which
some abuses of the president were exposed, and Janiszewski sentenced only to forty days' imprisonment.
This affair, and this decision, created a strong sensation at the time; and emboldened the
commission appointed to investigate the affairs of the town-house to insist on their rights.
The commission, being at length roused by the numerous abuses that were pressed on their attention,
obtained an order from the minister of the interior to proceed in the execution of their duties.
They immediately formed themselves into branch committees, each two taking cognizance of a
department. The task of investigating the abuses in the quartering of the officers devolved
on two citizens, called Schuch and Czarnecki. They found, on inquiry, that the owners of large
houses were induced to compromise with the billetmaster for a sum in cash equal to one-fourth,
and in some instances to one half of the amount of rent, in lieu of having a general or any
number of inferior officers quartered on them. In Warsaw many of the houses contain from fifty
to a hundred families; consequently, the billet-compensation money was a grievous tax. The
mass of extortions were found to exceed in reality any previous estimate. A new scene now opened
to view. Those gentlemen received evidence that the Russian generals were participators in
the pillage of the town, and in league with the president and billet-master. Feeling that they
should be detected in proceedings so disgraceful, they consulted a lawyer (Wolinski,) to know
if the researches of the committee could not be legally prevented. His opinion was given in
the negative; but, in order to divert the public mind from the investigation, he advised Czarnecki
to provoke one of the commission to strike him, when he should be able to prosecute him for
attacking an employé and by that means get rid of the investigation. Czarnecki used the most
insulting language to Mr. Schuch, and in a fit of desperation seized hold of his arm, with
the intention of putting him out of the room by force. The committee-man being on his guard,
the manoeuvre failed. Czarnecki, seeing himself foiled, his iniquity discovered, and his ill-gotten
wealth likely to be confiscated, committed suicide, and thus left the president and generals
to fight their own battles. The artillery of Messrs. Schuch and Czarnecki was now directed
against the whole of the Russian and two Polish generals, the notorious and unprincipled Raznieki,
the head of the secret police of the kingdom, and Kossecki. Means had in vain been tried to
bribe Messrs. Schuch and Czarnecki through the commissary of the circle, that the investigations
should cease, or that the generals should not appear to be implicated in the affair. It was
ascertained by the investigation that General Lewicki, Russian commander of the town, independently
of the lodgings he occupied, received payment for more than a hundred lodgings; that General
Gendre received payment of 212l. 10s.; that Philippeus, cashier to the grand duke, received
from the same fund 225l. annually, which was sweetened by a prompt payment of 2,500l., being
ten years in advance; and that the coachmen and lackeys of the grand duke and generals received
money from the same fund, instead of wages from their masters. As the inflexibility and integrity
of those gentlemen were proof against all bribes, the generals foresaw the impending storm
which threatened to break and overwhelm them. In this critical situation, they conceived one
of the most atrocious plots on record. Its object was to create a disturbance, by which the
town-house should be set on fire, and the documents which implicated them in the pillage should
be consumed. They agreed to produce this by arming a number of students; and their agent was
an officer in the army, known to belong to the secret societies. The sum of 200 ducats in gold
was paid him as a reward for anticipated services, and 200 stand of arms was provided him.
For such a project this man seemed a fit agent. He took lodgings in the house where the students
met to hold their deliberations, opened to them his revolutionary views, and represented himself
as one qualified to rescue their common country from the grasp of despotism. He so far ingratiated
himself into their confidence as to obtain some knowledge of the general plan for the freedom
of Poland. Circumstances, however, created distrust of this new and overzealous auxiliary;
and the students refused to act with him, or to receive the muskets the generals had provided
for distribution. Communication having now ceased between Petrikowski and the students, he
took lodgings in the next room to that in which they met to hold their deliberations; what
he overheard was communicated to the generals; and ten students were in consequence denounced,
arrested, and severely flogged (by an arbitrary order of the grand duke,) to make them divulge
their associates. Though writhing under the whip of the executioner, not a word escaped their
lips to inculpate their friends, or impart a knowledge of the schemes that had so long engrossed
their thoughts. The severity of the punishment may be conceived by the fact, that one of the
number died soon after its infliction. The students were kept in solitary confinement, and
their punishment remained uncertain; universal sympathy was felt for their sufferings by their
comrades, coupled with an ardent desire to relieve them; but by this time danger threatened
to implicate a great part of their body, and it was ascertained that an order to arrest a great
number was to take place on the 30th November. On the 27th November, an order arrived in Warsaw
from the emperor, to send to Riga with all possible despatch 42,000,000 of florins, equal to
1,050,000l. sterling, of which 2,000,000 were to be furnished from the treasury of the minister
of war, 28,000,000 from the government treasury, and 12,000,000 from the bank. These two circumstances
concurring, created great activity in all persons connected with the overthrow of despotism
and the freedom of their country; and it was determined only on the memorable morning of the
29th to commence their patriotic work in the evening."

The Editor's Conclusion, or Summary of the Year is likewise worthy of extract:

"The curtain of the year 1830 dropped on Europe in a state of ferment and agitation, of which
it was impossible to check the progress or to foretell the result. The masses of the population
had been stirred up from the bottom by the concussion of the French and Belgic revolutions,
and could not be expected for a long time to subside into order, or resume a determinate arrangement
according to their weight and affinities. The partition wall of privilege, rank, or subordination,
interposed between different classes of the European community, had in some cases been forcibly
broken down, and in others had been more silently undermined. Antiquity, custom, usage, or
legitimacy, which formerly became a shelter to abuses, could not now protect justice and right
from threatened innovation. Everywhere power was challenged on its rounds, and compelled to
give the popular watchword before it could be allowed to pass. Whether it was a nation that
demanded its independence from a foreign power, as in Belgium and Poland; or a people that
cashiered their dynasty, as in France and Saxony; or a parliament that changed its administration
for a more popular party, as in England; or republics that liberalized their institutions,
as in Switzerland,--all was movement and change. The breath of revolution sometimes blew from
the suburbs of a capital, as in France; sometimes from the cottages of the peasant, as in the
Swiss mountains; but it was every where powerful. No institution was held venerable, no authority
sacred, that stood in the way of the popular will. The people had every where got a purchase
against their rulers, and had fixed their engines for a further pull. The power of domestic
military protection had diminished, in proportion as rulers required its aid; while, at the
same time, all Europe seemed arming for a general trial of strength, or a recommencement of
conquest. Every kind of reform was the order of the day; financial reform, legal reform, ecclesiastical
reform, and parliamentary reform. The year that has just commenced must resolve the character
of many of those vague tendencies to change, to war, and confusion, which alarmed some and
inspired hope into others at the close of 1830."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DRAMATIC ANNUAL.

Mr Frederick Reynolds, the veteran dramatist, has, by the aid of Mr. W.H. Brooke, produced
an amusing and elegant volume of a Playwright's Adventures, under the above title, Mr. Brooke's
contributions are a plentiful sprinkling of Cuts, full of point and humour, and dovetailed
by the Editor with no lack of ingenuity. The Narrative itself purports to be a series of adventures,
or a volume of accidents to a young playwright in quest of dramatic fortune, with a due admixture
of love and murder, and "a happy union."--These are relieved by pungent attempts at repartee
and harmless raillery, so as to make the dialogue portion glide off pleasantly enough. Instead
of quoting an entire chapter from the volume, we are enabled to transfer to our pages a few
of its epigrammatic illustrations. First, is what Mr. Reynold calls l'auteur sifflè, but this,
for the sake of comprehensiveness, we style the damned author.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Reynolds seems to hold with Swift, that the merriest faces are in mourning coaches, for
his hero at a funeral introduces one of the best cuts. Thus--

On Vivid's return home, his gratification was soon diminished by the recollections of "existing
circumstances," and these caused him to sink into a gloomy and desponding state; when Sam Alltact,
rather malapropos, entered with a black-edged card, inviting his master to the funeral of a
deceased acquaintance, an eminent young artist, named Gilmaurs, who, never having been an R.A.,
but simply an engraver of extraordinary genius, was not to be buried under the dome of St.
Paul's, but in a village churchyard.

Vivid could not help remarking to a brother mourner, that, in his opinion, the profession of
a painter was as much overrated as that of an engraver was underrated: "for," he added, "what
real and unprejudiced connoisseur, while contemplating Woollett's Roman Edifices from Claude,
and Sir Robert Strange's Titian's Mistress from Titian, with many others, would not acknowledge,
that the copy in many instances so rivalled, if not surpassed, the original, that it became
a decided question, which artist ought to carry off the palm?"

"Or, at any rate," cried an odd accordant theatrical companion, "the connoisseur might say,
with Shakspeare--

  'Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?'"

"There is no doubt, that in any school of painting," continued our hero, "such men as Reynolds,
West, and Lawrence, cannot be too much upheld whilst living or lauded and regretted when dead.
There is likewise Wilkie--another Hogarth----"

