In many cases those who took the evidence have added their comments upon the intelligence and
demeanor of the witnesses stating the impression which each witness made, and indicating any
cases in which the story told appeared to them open to doubt or suspicion. In coming to a conclusion
upon the evidence the committee have been greatly assisted by these expressions of opinion,
and have uniformly rejected every deposition on which an opinion adverse to the witness has
been recorded.

This seems to be a fitting place at which to put on record the invaluable help which we have
received from our secretaries, Mr. E. Grimwood Mears and Mr. W.J.H. Brodrick, whose careful
diligence and minute knowledge of the evidence have been of the utmost service. Without their
skill, judgment, and untiring industry the labor of examining and appraising each part of so
large a mass of testimony would have occupied us for six months instead of three.

The marginal references in this report indicate the particular deposition or depositions on
which the statements made in the text are based.[A]

[Footnote A: Marginal references are omitted in this reproduction.--EDITOR.]

The depositions printed in the appendix themselves show that the stories were tested in detail,
and in none of these have we been able to detect the trace of any desire to "make a case" against
the German Army. Care was taken to impress upon the witness that the giving of evidence was
a grave and serious matter, and every deposition submitted to us was signed by the witness
in the presence of the examiner.

A noteworthy feature of many of the depositions is that, though taken at different places and
on different dates, and by different lawyers from different witnesses, they often corroborate
each other in a striking manner.

The evidence is all couched in the very words which the witnesses used, and where they spoke,
as the Belgian witnesses did, in Flemish or French, pains were taken to have competent translators,
and to make certain that the translation was exact.

Seldom did these Belgian witnesses show a desire to describe what they had seen or suffered.
The lawyers who took the depositions were surprised to find how little vindictiveness, or indeed
passion they showed, and how generally free from emotional excitement their narratives were.
Many hesitated to speak lest what they said, if it should ever be published, might involve
their friends or relatives at home in danger, and it was found necessary to give an absolute
promise that names should not be disclosed.

For this reason names have been omitted.

A large number of depositions, and extracts from depositions, will be found in Appendix A,
and to these your attention is directed.

In all cases these are given as nearly as possible (for abbreviation was sometimes inevitable)
in the exact words of the witness, and wherever a statement has been made by a witness tending
to exculpate the German troops, it has been given in full. Excisions have been made only where
it has been felt necessary to conceal the identity of the deponent or to omit what are merely
hearsay statements, or are palpably irrelevant. In every case the name and description of the
witnesses are given in the original depositions and in copies which have been furnished to
us by H.M. Government. The originals remain in the custody of the Home Department, where they
will be available, in case of need, for reference after the conclusion of the war.

The committee have also had before them a number of diaries taken from the German dead.

It appears to be the custom in the German Army for soldiers to be encouraged to keep diaries
and to record in them the chief events of each day. A good many of these diaries were collected
on the field when British troops were advancing over ground which had been held by the enemy,
were sent to headquarters in France, and dispatched thence to the War Office in England. They
passed into the possession of the Prisoners of War Information Bureau, and were handed by it
to our secretaries. They have been translated with great care. We have inspected them and are
absolutely satisfied of their authenticity. They have thrown important light upon the methods
followed in the conduct of the war. In one respect, indeed, they are the most weighty part
of the evidence, because they proceed from a hostile source and are not open to any such criticism
on the ground of bias as might be applied to Belgian testimony. From time to time references
to these diaries will be found in the text of the report. In Appendix B they are set out at
greater length both in the German original and in an English translation, together with a few
photographs of the more important entries.

In Appendix C are set out a number of German proclamations. Most of these are included in the
Belgian Report No. VI., which has been furnished to us. Actual specimens of original proclamations
issued by or at the bidding of the German military authorities, and posted in the Belgian and
French towns mentioned, have been produced to us, and copies thereof are to be found in this
appendix.

Appendix D contains the rules of The Hague Convention dealing with the conduct of war on land
as adopted in 1907, Germany being one of the signatory powers.

In Appendix E will be found a selection of statements collected in France by Professor Morgan.

These five appendices are contained in a separate volume.

In dealing with the evidence we have recognized the importance of testing it severely, and
so far as the conditions permit we have followed the principles which are recognized in the
courts of England, the British overseas dominions, and the United States. We have also (as
already noted) set aside the testimony of any witnesses who did not favorably impress the lawyers
who took their depositions, and have rejected hearsay evidence except in cases where hearsay
furnished an undersigned confirmation of facts with regard to which we already possessed direct
testimony from some other source, or explained in a natural way facts imperfectly narrated
or otherwise perplexing.[A]

[Footnote A: For instance, the dead body of a man is found lying on the doorstep, or a woman
is seen who has the appearance of having been outraged. So far the facts are proved by the
direct evidence of the person by whom they have been seen. Information is sought for by him
as to the circumstances under which the death or outrages took place. The bystanders who saw
the circumstances but who are not now accessible, relate what they saw, and this is reported
by the witness to the examiner and is placed on record in the depositions. We have had no hesitation
in taking such evidence into consideration.]

It is natural to ask whether much of the evidence given, especially by the Belgian witnesses,
may not be due to excitement and overstrained emotions, and whether, apart from deliberate
falsehood, persons who mean to speak the truth may not in a more or less hysterical condition
have been imagining themselves to have seen the things which they say that they saw. Both the
lawyers who took the depositions, and we when we came to examine them, fully recognized this
possibility. The lawyers, as already observed, took pains to test each witness and either rejected,
or appended a note of distrust to, the testimony of those who failed to impress them favorably.
We have carried the sifting still further by also omitting from the depositions those in which
we found something that seemed too exceptional to be accepted on the faith of one witness only,
or too little supported by other evidence pointing to like facts. Many depositions have thus
been omitted on which, though they are probably true, we think it safer not to place reliance.

Notwithstanding these precautions, we began the inquiry with doubts whether a positive result
would be attained. But the further we went and the more evidence we examined so much the more
was our skepticism reduced. There might be some exaggeration in one witness, possible delusion
in another, inaccuracies in a third. When, however, we found that things which had at first
seemed improbable were testified to by many witnesses coming from different places, having
had no communication with one another, and knowing nothing of one another's statements, the
points in which they all agreed became more and more evidently true. And when this concurrence
of testimony, this convergence upon what were substantially the same broad facts, showed itself
in hundreds of depositions, the truth of those broad facts stood out beyond question. The force
of the evidence is cumulative. Its worth can be estimated only by perusing the testimony as
a whole. If any further confirmation had been needed, we found it in the diaries in which German
officers and private soldiers have recorded incidents just such as those to which the Belgian
witnesses depose.

The experienced lawyers who took the depositions tell us that they passed from the same stage
of doubt into the same stage of conviction. They also began their work in a skeptical spirit,
expecting to find much of the evidence colored by passion, or prompted by an excited fancy.
But they were impressed by the general moderation and matter-of-fact level-headedness of the
witnesses. We have interrogated them, particularly regarding some of the most startling and
shocking incidents which appear in the evidence laid before us, and where they expressed a
doubt we have excluded the evidence, admitting it as regards the cases in which they stated
that the witnesses seemed to them to be speaking the truth, and that they themselves believed
the incidents referred to have happened. It is for this reason that we have inserted among
the depositions printed in the appendix several cases which we might otherwise have deemed
scarcely credible.

The committee has conducted its investigations and come to its conclusions independently of
the reports issued by the French and Belgian commissions, but it has no reason to doubt that
those conclusions are in substantial accord with the conclusions that have been reached by
these two commissions.

ARRANGEMENT OF THE REPORT.

As respects the framework and arrangement of the report, it has been deemed desirable to present
first of all what may be called a general historical account of the events which happened,
and the conditions which prevailed in the parts of Belgium which lay along the line of the
German march, and thereafter to set forth the evidence which bears upon particular classes
of offenses against the usages of civilized warfare, evidence which shows to what extent the
provisions of The Hague Convention have been disregarded.

This method, no doubt, involves a certain amount of overlapping, for some of the offenses belonging
to the latter part of the report will have been already referred to in the earlier part which
deals with the invasion of Belgium. But the importance of presenting a connected narrative
of events seems to outweigh the disadvantage of occasional repetition. The report will therefore
be found to consist of two parts, viz.:

     (1) An analysis and summary of the evidence regarding the
     conduct of the German troops in Belgium toward the civilian
     population of that country during the first few weeks of the
     invasion.

     (2) An examination of the evidence relating to breaches of the
     rules and usages of war and acts of inhumanity, committed by
     German soldiers or groups of soldiers, during the first four
     months of the war, whether in Belgium or in France.

This second part has again been subdivided into two sections:

     a. Offenses committed against noncombatant civilians during
     the conduct of the war generally.

     b. Offenses committed against combatants, whether in Belgium
     or in France.

PART I.

THE CONDUCT OF THE GERMAN TROOPS IN BELGIUM.

Although the neutrality of Belgium had been guaranteed by a treaty signed in 1839 to which
France, Prussia, and Great Britain were parties, and although, apart altogether from any duties
imposed by treaty, no belligerent nation has any right to claim a passage for its army across
the territory of a neutral State, the position which Belgium held between the German Empire
and France had obliged her to consider the possibility that in the event of a war between these
two powers her neutrality might not be respected. In 1911 the Belgian Minister at Berlin had
requested an assurance from Germany that she would observe the Treaty of 1839; and the Chancellor
of the empire had declared that Germany had no intention of violating Belgian neutrality. Again
in 1913 the German Secretary of State at a meeting of a Budget Committee of the Reichstag had
declared that "Belgian neutrality is provided for by international conventions and Germany
is determined to respect those conventions." Finally, on July 31, 1914, when the danger of
war between Germany and France seemed imminent, Herr von Below, the German Minister in Brussels,
being interrogated by the Belgian Foreign Department, replied that he knew of the assurances
given by the German Chancellor in 1911, and that he "was certain that the sentiments expressed
at that time had not changed." Nevertheless on Aug. 2 the same Minister presented a note to
the Belgian Government demanding a passage through Belgium for the German Army on pain of an
instant declaration of war. Startled as they were by the suddenness with which this terrific
war cloud had risen on the eastern horizon, the leaders of the nation rallied around the King
in his resolution to refuse the demand and to prepare for resistance. They were aware of the
danger which would confront the civilian population of the country if it were tempted to take
part in the work of national defense. Orders were accordingly issued by the Civil Governors
of provinces, and by the Burgomasters of towns, that the civilian inhabitants were to take
no part in hostilities and to offer no provocation to the invaders. That no excuse might be
furnished for severities, the populations of many important towns were instructed to surrender
all firearms into the hands of the local officials.[1]

[Footnote 1: Copies of typical proclamations have been printed in L'Allemagne et la Belgique,
Documents Annexés, xxxvi.]

]

This happened on Aug. 2. On the evening of Aug. 3 the German troops crossed the frontier. The
storm burst so suddenly that neither party had time to adjust its mind to the situation. The
Germans seem to have expected an easy passage. The Belgian population, never dreaming of an
attack, were startled and stupefied.

LIÈGE AND DISTRICT.

On Aug. 4 the roads converging upon Liège from northeast, east, and south were covered with
German Death's Head Hussars and Uhlans pressing forward to seize the passage over the Meuse.
From the very beginning of the operations the civilian population of the villages lying upon
the line of the German advance were made to experience the extreme horrors of war. "On the
4th of August," says one witness, "at Herve," (a village not far from the frontier,) "I saw
at about 2 o'clock in the afternoon, near the station, five Uhlans; these were the first German
troops I had seen. They were followed by a German officer and some soldiers in a motor car.
The men in the car called out to a couple of young fellows who were standing about thirty yards
away. The young men, being afraid, ran off and then the Germans fired and killed one of them
named D." The murder of this innocent fugitive civilian was a prelude to the burning and pillage
of Herve and of other villages in the neighborhood, to the indiscriminate shooting of civilians
of both sexes, and to the organized military execution of batches of selected males. Thus at
Herve some fifty men escaping from the burning houses were seized, taken outside the town and
shot. At Melen, a hamlet west of Herve, forty men were shot. In one household alone the father
and mother (names given) were shot, the daughter died after being repeatedly outraged, and
the son was wounded. Nor were children exempt. "About Aug. 4," says one witness, "near Vottem,
we were pursuing some Uhlans. I saw a man, woman, and a girl about nine, who had been killed.
They were on the threshold of a house, one on the top of the other, as if they had been shot
down, one after the other, as they tried to escape."

The burning of the villages in this neighborhood and the wholesale slaughter of civilians,
such as occurred at Herve, Micheroux, and Soumagne, appear to be connected with the exasperation
caused by the resistance of Fort Fléron, whose guns barred the main road from Aix la Chapelle
to Liège. Enraged by the losses which they had sustained, suspicious of the temper of the civilian
population, and probably thinking that by exceptional severities at the outset they could cow
the spirit of the Belgian Nation, the German officers and men speedily accustomed themselves
to the slaughter of civilians. How rapidly the process was effected is illustrated by an entry
in the diary of Kurt Hoffman, a one-year's man in the First Jägers, who on Aug. 5 was in front
of Fort Fléron. He illustrates his story by a sketch map. "The position," he says, "was dangerous.
As suspicious civilians were hanging about--houses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, were cleared, the owners
arrested, (and shot the following day.) Suddenly village A was fired at. Out of it bursts our
baggage train, and the Fourth Company of the Twenty-seventh Regiment who had lost their way
and been shelled by our own artillery. From the point D.P., (shown in diary,) I shoot a civilian
with rifle at 400 meters slap through the head, as we afterward ascertained." Within a few
hours, Hoffman, while in house 3, was himself under fire from his own comrades and narrowly
escaped being killed. A German, ignorant that house 8 had been occupied, reported, as was the
fact, that he had been fired upon from that house. He had been challenged by the field patrol,
and failed to give the countersign. Hoffman continues:

     "Ten minutes later, people approach who are talking
     excitedly--apparently Germans. I call out 'Halt, who's there?'
     Suddenly rapid fire is opened upon us, which I can only escape
     by quickly jumping on one side--with bullets and fragments of
     wall and pieces of glass flying around me. I call out 'Halt,
     here Field Patrol.' Then it stops, and there appears
     Lieutenant Römer with three platoons. A man has reported that
     he had been shot at out of our house; no wonder, if he does
     not give the countersign."

The entry, though dated Aug. 5, was evidently written on the 6th or later, because the writer
refers to the suspicious civilians as having been shot on that day. Hoffman does not indicate
of what offense these civilians were guilty, and there is no positive evidence to connect their
slaughter with the report made by the German who had been fired on by his comrades. They were
"suspicious" and that was enough.

The systematic execution of civilians, which in some cases, as the diary just cited shows,
was founded on a genuine mistake, was given a wide extension through the Province of Liège.
In Soumagne and Micheroux very many civilians were summarily shot. In a field belonging to
a man named E. fifty-six or fifty-seven were put to death. A German officer said: "You have
shot at us." One of the villagers asked to be allowed to speak, and said: "If you think these
people fired kill me, but let them go." The answer was three volleys. The survivors were bayoneted.
Their corpses were seen in the field that night by another witness. One at least had been mutilated.
These were not the only victims in Soumagne. The eyewitness of the massacre saw, on his way
home, twenty bodies, one that of a young girl of thirteen. Another witness saw nineteen corpses
in a meadow.

At Blegny Trembleur, on the 6th, some civilians were captured by German soldiers, who took
steps to put them to death forthwith, but were restrained by the arrival of an officer. The
prisoners subsequently were taken off to Battice and five were shot in a field. No reason was
assigned for their murder.

In the meantime house burners were at work. On the 6th, Battice was destroyed in part. From
the 8th to the 10th over 300 houses were burned at Herve, while mounted men shot into doors
and windows to prevent the escape of the inhabitants.

At Heure le Romain on or about the 15th of August all the male inhabitants, including some
bedridden old men, were imprisoned in the church. The Burgomaster's brother and the priest
were bayoneted.

On or about the 14th and 15th the village of Visé was completely destroyed. Officers directed
the incendiaries, who worked methodically with benzine. Antiques and china were removed from
the houses, before their destruction, by officers who guarded the plunder, revolver in hand.
The house of a witness, which contained valuables of this kind, was protected for a time by
a notice posted on the door by officers. This notice has been produced to the committee. After
the removal of the valuables this house also was burned.

German soldiers had arrived on the 15th at Blegny Trembleur and seized a quantity of wine.
On the 16th prisoners were taken; four, including the priest and the Burgomaster, were shot.
On the same day 200 (so-called) hostages were seized at Flémalle and marched off. There they
were told that unless Fort Flémalle surrendered by noon they would be shot. It did surrender
and they were released.

Entries in a German diary show that on the 19th the German soldiers gave themselves up to debauchery
in the streets of Liège, and on the night of the 20th (Thursday) a massacre took place in the
streets, beginning near the Café Carpentier, at which there is said to have been a dinner attended
by Russian and other students. A proclamation issued by General Kolewe on the following day
gave the German version of the affair, which was that his troops had been fired on by Russian
students. The diary states that in the night the inhabitants of Liège became mutinous and that
fifty persons were shot. The Belgian witnesses vehemently deny that there had been any provocation
given, some stating that many German soldiers were drunk, others giving evidence which indicates
that the affair was planned beforehand. It is stated that at 5 o'clock in the evening, long
before the shooting, a citizen was warned by a friendly German soldier not to go out that night.

Though the cause of the massacre is in dispute, the results are known with certainty. The Rue
des Pitteurs and houses in the Place de l'Université and the Quai des Pêcheurs were systematically
fired with benzine, and many inhabitants were burned alive in their houses, their efforts to
escape being prevented by rifle fire. Twenty people were shot, while trying to escape, before
the eyes of one of the witnesses. The Liège Fire Brigade turned out but was not allowed to
extinguish the fire. Its carts, however, were usefully employed in removing heaps of civilian
corpses to the Town Hall. The fire burned on through the night and the murders continued on
the following day, the 21st. Thirty-two civilians were killed on that day in the Place de l'Université
alone, and a witness states that this was followed by the rape in open day of fifteen or twenty
women on tables in the square itself.

No depositions are before us which deal with events in the City of Liège after this date. Outrages,
however, continued in various places in the province.

For example, on or about the 21st of August, at Pepinster two witnesses were seized as hostages
and were threatened, together with five others, that, unless they could discover a civilian
who was alleged to have shot a soldier in the leg, they would be shot themselves. They escaped
their fate because one of the hostages convinced the officer that the alleged shooting, if
it took place at all, took place in the Commune of Cornesse and not that of Pepinster, whereupon
the Burgomaster of Cornesse, who was old and very deaf, was shot forthwith.

The outrages on the civilian population were not confined to the villages mentioned above,
but appear to have been general throughout this district from the very outbreak of the war.

An entry in one of the diaries says:

     "We crossed the Belgian frontier on 15th August, 1914, at
     11:50 in the forenoon, and then we went steadily along the
     main road till we got into Belgium. Hardly were we there when
     we had a horrible sight. Houses were burned down, the
     inhabitants chased away and some of them shot. Not one of the
     hundreds of houses were spared. Everything was plundered and
     burned. Hardly had we passed through this large village before
     the next village was burned, and so it went on continuously.
     On the 16th August, 1914, the large village of Barchon was
     burned down. On the same day we crossed the bridge over the
     Meuse at 11:50 in the morning. We then arrived at the town of
     Wandre. Here the houses were spared, but everything was
     examined. At last we were out of the town and everything went
     in ruins. In one house a whole collection of weapons was
     found. The inhabitants without exception were shot. This
     shooting was heart-breaking, as they all knelt down and
     prayed, but that was no ground for mercy. A few shots rang out
     and they fell back into the green grass and slept for ever."
     ["Die Einwohner wurden samt und sonders herausgeholt und
     erschossen: aber dieses Erschiessen war direkt herzzerreisend
     wie sie alle knieben und beteten, aber dies half kein
     Erbarmen. Ein paar Schüsse krackten und die fielen rücklings
     in das grüne Gras und erschliefen für immer."]

VALLEYS OF MEUSE AND SAMBRE.

While the First Army, under the command of General Alexander von Kluck, was mastering the passages
of the Meuse between Visé and Namur, and carrying out the scheme of devastation which has already
been described, detachments of the Second German Army, under General von Bülow, were proceeding
up the Meuse valley toward Namur. On Wednesday, Aug. 12, the town of Huy, which stands half
way between Namur and Liège, was seized. On Aug. 20 German guns opened fire on Namur itself.
Three days later the city was evacuated by its defenders, and the Germans proceeded along the
valley of the Sambre through Tamines and Charleroi to Mons. Meanwhile a force under General
von Hausen had advanced upon Dinant, by Laroche, Marche, and Achène, and on Aug. 15 made an
unsuccessful assault upon that town. A few days later the attack was renewed and with success,
and, Dinant captured, von Hausen's army streamed into France by Bouvines and Rethel, firing
and looting the villages and shooting the inhabitants as they passed through.

The evidence with regard to the Province of Namur is less voluminous than that relating to
the north of Belgium. This is largely due to the fact that the testimony of soldiers is seldom
available, as the towns and villages once occupied by the Germans were seldom reoccupied by
the opposing troops, and the number of refugees who have reached England from the Namur district
is comparatively small.

ANDENNE.

Andenne is a small town on the Meuse between Liège and Namur, lying opposite the village of
Seilles, (with which it is connected by a bridge over the river,) and was one of the earlier
places reached on the German advance up the Meuse. In order to understand the story of the
massacre which occurred there on Thursday Aug. 20, the following facts should be borne in mind:
The German advance was hotly contested by Belgian and French troops. From daybreak onward on
the 19th of August the Eighth Belgian Regiment of the Line were fighting with the German troops
on the left bank of the Meuse on the heights of Seilles. At 8 A.M. on the 19th the Belgians
found further resistance impossible in the district, and retired under shelter of the forts
of Namur. As they retired they blew up Andenne Bridge. The first Germans arrived at Andenne
at about 10 A.M., when ten or twelve Uhlans rode into the town. They went to the bridge and
found it was destroyed. They then retired, but returned about half an hour afterward. Soon
after that several thousand Germans entered the town and made arrangements to spend the night
there. Thus, on the evening of the 19th of August, a large body of German troops were in possession
of the town, which they had entered without any resistance on the part of the allied armies
or of the civilian population.

About 4:30 on the next afternoon shots were fired from the left bank of the Meuse and replied
to by the Germans in Andenne. The village of Andenne had been isolated from the district on
the left bank of the Meuse by the destruction of the bridge, and there is nothing to suggest
that the firing on the left came from the inhabitants of Andenne. Almost immediately, however,
the slaughter of these inhabitants began, and continued for over two hours and intermittently
during the night. Machine guns were brought into play. The German troops were said to be for
the most part drunk, and they certainly murdered and ravaged unchecked. A reference to the
German diaries in the appendix will give some idea of the extent to which the army gave itself
up to drink through the month of August.

When the fire slackened about 7 o'clock, many of the townspeople fled in the direction of the
quarries; others remained in their houses. At this moment the whole of the district around
the station was on fire and houses were flaming over a distance of two kilometers in the direction
of the hamlet of Tramaka. The little farms which rise one above the other on the high ground
of the right bank were also burning.

At 6 o'clock on the following morning, the 21st, the Germans began to drag the inhabitants
from their houses. Men, women, and children were driven into the square, where the sexes were
separated. Three men were then shot, and a fourth was bayoneted. A German Colonel was present
whose intention in the first place appeared to be to shoot all the men. A young German girl
who had been staying in the neighborhood interceded with him, and after some parleying, some
of the prisoners were picked out, taken to the banks of the Meuse and there shot. The Colonel
accused the population of firing on the soldiers, but there is no reason to think that any
of them had done so, and no inquiry appears to have been made.

