Of the nearly nine hundred men who have received the bachelor's degree from Trinity College
no small number have attained eminence in their respective walks in life. The class of 1829
gave a governor to Michigan and a judge to Illinois; the class of 1830, a member of Congress
to Tennessee, a judge to Louisiana, and two prominent divines to Ohio; the class of 1831, a
bishop to Kansas; the class of 1832, three members of Congress, one to North Carolina, one
to Missouri (who has also been governor of the State), and one to New York, a distinguished
clergyman to Connecticut, and a chaplain to West Point; the class of 1835, an archbishop to
the Roman Catholic Church, and a chairman to the house of bishops of the American Episcopal
Church; the class of 1840, a president to St. Stephen's College and a supreme-court judge to
Connecticut; the class of 1846, a member of Congress to New York, another (also lieutenant-governor)
to Minnesota, and a president to Norwich University; the class of 1848, a bishop to Massachusetts,
a lecturer, a tutor, and three trustees to the college; and this list seems as a sample of
what the college has done and is doing, in the spirit of her motto, for the Church and the
country. The bishops of Connecticut, Kansas, Georgia, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Washington Territory, and Indiana are among her alumni; with them some three hundred others
have entered the ministry of the Christian Church; and representatives of the college are found
holding honored positions in the State, in institutions of learning, in the professions of
law and medicine, and in the business of life. Her course of instruction unites the conservatism
of experience with adaptation to the needs of modern scholarship, all under the acknowledged
influence of religious nurture; her well-stocked library and ample museum, with her unrivalled
accommodations for students, furnish her for her work, so that she is, in reality as well as
in name, in the affections of her members as well as in her profession, a home of sound learning.
And as her needs are supplied by the generosity of alumni and friends, she will be still better
qualified for her work and will draw still closer to herself those who are entrusted to her care.

The elaborate plans for the new buildings, prepared by the eminent English architect the late
Mr. Burgess, were such as to provide for all the present and prospective needs of the college.
As finally arranged they included a large quadrangle six hundred feet by three hundred, at
either end of which should be a quadrangle three hundred feet square. It was not expected that
all of the great pile could be built at once, and, in fact, all that has been erected as yet
is the west side of the great "quad." This includes, as has been said above, two long blocks
of buildings connected by a large tower some seventy feet square. The style of architecture
is that known as French secular Gothic; the buildings are of brown Portland stone, liberally
trimmed with white sandstone from Ohio. Jarvis Hall contains forty-four suites of rooms for
the students and the junior professors, unsurpassed for beauty and convenience by students'
quarters elsewhere; they are so arranged that each suite of rooms runs through the buildings,
and that there is plenty of sunlight and air in every study and bedroom. The Northam tower
is also fitted for students' apartments. In Seabury Hall, the plan of which was modified under
Mr. Kimball, the American architect, are the spacious lecture-rooms, finished, as is all the
rest of the buildings, in ash and with massive Ohio stone mantel-pieces; and also the other
public rooms. The chapel is arranged choir-wise, after the English custom, and will accommodate
about two hundred people; the wood-work here is particularly handsome. It is provided with
a fine organ, the gift of a recent graduate. The museum contains a full set of Ward's casts
of famous fossils, including the huge megatherium, a large collection of mounted skeletons,
and cases filled with minerals and shells; while the galleries afford room for other collections.
The library extends through three stories, and is overrunning with its twenty-six thousand
books and thirteen thousand pamphlets; large and valuable additions have been made to its shelves
within a few years. The erection of a separate library building, probably at the south end
of the great quadrangle, will be a necessity before many years. The laboratories for practical
work in physics and chemistry are at present in Seabury Hall; but there is a demand for larger
accommodations. The St. John observatory is a small, but well-furnished building on the south
campus. The present gymnasium is a plain structure on the north campus, between the dormitories
and the president's house; but the funds have already been obtained for a handsome and spacious
gymnasium, and the generous gift of Mr. J. S. Morgan, of London, has provided for the erection
of an "annex," under cover of which base-ball and other games may be practised in the winter.
As new buildings rise from time to time, the spacious grounds will doubtless be laid out and
beautified to correspond with the lawn in front of the present buildings. Mention should also
be made of the halls of the college fraternities, three of which are already erected.

Thus the college, though it needs an increase in its funds for various purposes, is well fitted
for its work. In its courses of instruction it provides for those who wish to secure degrees
in arts and in science, and also for special students. The prizes offered in the several departments
and the honors which may be attained by excellence in the work of the curriculum serve as incentives
to scholarship. Nor is it least among the attractions of Trinity College that it stands in
the city of Hartford.

II.

The feeling between the settlers and the Indians, as narrated by Dr. Moore Russell Fletcher,
became so bitter that the Indians determined on the total annihilation of the villagers, and
with that intent seventy-five or eighty Indians left their tribe in the vicinity of Canada,
and came down the head waters of the Pemigewassett as far as Livermore Falls, and there camped
for the night. All were soon sound in sleep except one Indian, who was friendly to the settlers.
He made his way to Plymouth, aroused the villagers, and informed them of their dangerous situation.
The settlers, in dismay, asked each other, "What can be done?" The Indian heard their inquiries,
saw their alarm, and in his Indian way, said, "Harkee me, Indian,--you no run away, no fight
so many Indians. Go up river a mile, quick, make um up fires by camp-ground (holding up his
fingers, five, ten, twenty), cut um sticks, like Indian roast him meat on, lay um ends in fires,
put fires out. When Indians see and count um sticks he shake his head,--no fight so many pale-faces;
they go back home to camp-grounds." Next morning the villagers waited in great excitement,
fear, and hope. No Indians appeared, and there was little trouble from them afterwards. Comparative
peace reigned, although the Indians at times (three or four in number) passed through the quiet
town of Plymouth on their way to their old camping-grounds. The villagers buried their animosity,
having been told of the ill-treatment of the Indians by the State, and, instead of driving
them from their houses, they fed and kept them over night when they signified a desire to stop
and rest.

After many years other settlers went there; passable roads and bridges were made, and the settlement
was extended up along Baker's River almost to Rumney, and down the river nearly to Bridgewater,
now called Lower Intervale. They brought in from the lower towns oxen, cows, horses, pigs,
geese, and turkeys. Their furs and moose and bear-skins found ready sale in the lower towns,
and afforded them the means of the most common luxuries and groceries, which could not be provided
in their incomplete rural settlement.

A Mr. Brown, of that part of the settlement known as the Lower Intervale, was one night returning
from a neighbor's house. In the darkness he lost the footpath, and dropped upon his hands and
knees to feel for it. Instantly he felt the hair of some animal touch his face. A quick thought
told him that his companion was none other than an immense bear. Mr. Brown's presence of mind
did not desert him. He knew that all domestic animals like to be rubbed or scratched, so he
began rubbing up and down his companion's breast and neck, continuing as far as the throat,
while with his other hand he drew out his long hunting-knife and plunged it in to the handle,
at the same instant jumping backwards with all his might. As soon as he could he made his way
back to his neighbor's house; his neighbor and another man, armed with gun, axe, long hay-fork
and lantern, returned to the place of encounter, where they found Bruin already dead. Bear-steak
was served all around the next morning.

Ebenezer Webster, the father of Daniel, settled at Salisbury about the time that Stephen went
to Plymouth, and the hardships they underwent were very similar.

Daniel was born ten years after the Revolutionary War, and had to pass through many of the
privations of the first settlers.

The clearing of the land was a tedious process, in which all boys had to participate. The forest
trees were felled generally when in full foliage, about the first of June, and laid thus until
the next March, when the "lopping of the limbs," as it was called, went on, in which boys,
with their small hatchets, took part.

About the middle of May, when perfectly dry, they were set on fire, and the small limbs, with
the leaves, were burned. In the midst of the tree-trunks, as they lay, corn was planted in
the burnt ground, and usually yielded some sixty bushels, shelled, to the acre.

In the early autumn, when the corn was in milk, bears, hedgehogs, and coons were very troublesome,
for they trampled down a great deal more than they ate. Later in the autumn the chopping was
infested by squirrels. All practicable means were used for killing these visitors. Bears were
caught in log traps, hedgehogs were hunted with clubs, and coons were caught in steel traps.
Squirrels generally visited the chopping in the daytime, and were killed with bows and arrows,
and sometimes caught in box traps. All of these animals were considered good food.

Just before the frost came the corn was gathered and shucked, and afterwards husked and put
into the granary. During the winter the felled trees were sometimes cut for firewood, and those
remaining in the spring were "junked," as it was called, and rolled into immense piles and
burned, after which a crop of rye or wheat was sown, and hacked in with hoes, the roots of
the trees preventing the movement of the harrow. The process of "junking" was a tedious one,
as the burnt logs soon covered the axe-handle with smut, drying up the skin of the hands so
they would often crack and bleed.

It is said that young Daniel disliked this toil very much, and was among the earliest to devise
"niggering," as it was called. In this process a stick of wood was laid across the log and
lighted with fire, so it would burn down through the larger log, when fanned by the breeze,
cutting it in two.

In the early spring great preparation was made for tapping the maple-trees and boiling the
sap down to sugar, which was always an agreeable employment for young Daniel. Another occupation
of the boy on the farm was in weeding, pulling, and spreading flax, which boys generally dislike
very much.

After sheep were introduced in this locality there was a general washing of them in the brook
about the first of May, after which sheep-shearing came on.

Planting, hoeing, and haying was very hard work for the boys, and very few liked it. After
the harvest something was done in lumbering, and the Websters, having a small saw-mill on their
farm, made shingles and boards; although for many years shingles and clapboards were mostly
split by hand. Daniel was peculiarly fond of hunting and fishing, a passion which lasted his
whole lifetime. Minks, musk-rats, and now and then a fox, were caught in traps, though the
latter was oftener shot. Small game, such as partridges and squirrels, were very plenty in
the woods, and the skins of gray squirrels were most always used for winter caps for the boys.
Larger game, like moose, deer, bears, wolves, and sometimes panthers, were taken.

The schooling of boys was often among these scenes, where at home the evenings were spent in
studying by the light of a pitch-pine knot.

Itinerant ministers, in those days, mostly supplied the rustic pulpit, and visited their scattered
flocks through many miles of travel.

The boys were expected to be very decorous not only to the visiting ministers but to all older
than themselves. Reverence was natural to Daniel Webster, and was not with him a mere matter
of cultivation.

TO OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

ON HIS DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE.

  Good Doctor, what has put it in your head
    To sail away across the ocean blue?
  Have you got tired of Boston? or, instead,
    Do you mistrust that we are tired of you?

  You wanted to see England, and you thought
    That you might go for once in fifty years:
  Well, your own way--just make your visit short;
    So here's bon voyage,--and also a few tears.

  We hope that you will have a joyful time,
    Meet hosts of friends, and sit at many a feast;
  And when, with all your wit and all your rhyme,
  You once are back in this your native clime,
    Don't ask to sail again off to the East
    For--well, for five times fifty years at least.

                                  Edward P. Guild.

The first day or two after her meeting with the captain Millicent worked with a light heart
and renewed strength, and though Ninigret now never assisted her in carrying water, as he had
formerly done, the thought of her new friend and of freedom sustained her. When after a week,
however, there was no sign of the approach of friends, she grew restless. Her work tired her
more than it ever had; the water-bucket seemed to hold twice the usual quantity; there was
double the amount of food to prepare, and the women all seemed to want clothing made. Doubtless
all was as it had been in her surroundings, only the hope that had dawned one June day in her
heart had died out. She tried to reason with herself. Why was she so impatient? Did it not
take time in this season of war to accomplish anything? Why, after all, should he return? Her
story may have interested him at the time, even aroused his sympathies; but, afterwards, it
was but natural he should, on returning to his duties, forget about her and her misery. What
did she know of him? They had met but once; still her belief in him was strong, though wavering
at the same time. Had he not said the unfortunate had a claim on all honorable men, and surely
he was a man an unfortunate might apply to, if any man was? Such is the effect of imagination
upon all poor mortals; it may be a grand gift, but is often a most uncomfortable one.

Upon the tenth night after the meeting with the captain quiet reigned at the Indian camp, where
all slumbered except Millicent, to whom, in her anxiety, sleep was denied. She sat meditating
upon recent events, her bosom stirred with the hope of speedy deliverance, and fear lest untoward
circumstances should prevent the captain from executing his plan for her rescue. After a time
her attention was attracted by peculiar sounds breaking upon the stillness of the night. These,
at first faint and distant, gradually grew nearer and louder, till, trembling, she recognized
the yells of the savages, who were returning through the woods rejoicing over the atrocities
they had committed. She aroused the women to prepare for the wanderers, who, bounding like
deer through the forest, soon burst into the clearing and threw themselves on the ground in
front of the wigwam, calling upon the women for food and drink. In order to help the squaws
provide for their impatient lords Millicent offered to carry out some provisions. As she appeared
the warriors greeted her with a shout, calling her Philip's pretty maid. She did not reply,
but moved about silently among them, horrified at their revolting account of an attack upon
a lone country-house, where, having murdered the inmates, they had possessed themselves of
all of value in the house. Exultingly they told their tale of horror, their painted faces and
blood-stained garments looking ghastly in the moonlight. One man threw an ornament, torn from
the person of a white woman, to his squaw, who had brought his supper; and another, with a
fiendish laugh, tossed a scalp to Millicent, calling out in coarse tones, "Here little white-skin,
take that for a remembrance of your race."

With loathing she crept back to her tent, and, stopping her ears, tried to keep out the sound
of their diabolical cries.

Toward morning the noise ceased, as they, weary with carousing, one after another, fell into
a heavy slumber. Allured by the silence, Millicent slipped out into the forest to quiet her
aching brow in the fresh morning air. What if the English should come now, when these warriors
are all at home? Would they be prepared for the fierce resistance they would encounter, she
murmured, and, lost in thought, gazed mournfully at the waters of the lake, cold and gray in
the early daylight. Suddenly she was startled by the tall form of Ninigret appearing like a
phantom at her side.

"I have come to join you in your morning walk, Millicent," he said, with meaning in his dark
eyes, as he watched her narrowly.

"You need not have come; I prefer to be alone," she answered, drawing herself up haughtily.

"I know you do; but you are out early, and need a protector."

A look of disgust swept over her face as he spoke the word protector. As if comprehending the
expression, he said, hurriedly:--

"Have you considered what I said to you? Have you had enough of this life, and are you ready
to come with me?"

"No, never! I would rather die at the hands of the warriors up there"--but the words died on
her lips, for, as she spoke, the sounds of fire-arms reached their ears, mingled with the war-cry
of the half-aroused Indians. With an exclamation of joy Millicent started in the direction
of the firing, but had advanced but a step before the lithe Indian had her in his grasp.

"You shall not escape me now. Resign yourself. The white men have found the camp, but they
will not rescue you. Dare to utter a cry, and I will kill you," he added, brandishing a gleaming
knife before her eyes.

Terrified at this menace she allowed herself to be dragged unresistingly into the forest.

Immediately after his interview with Millicent Captain Merwin returned to Boston to secure
the force necessary to his purpose. This required some days, during which he found himself
becoming very restless. The story of the fair captive had strongly excited his sympathy, and
her sweet face had made a deep impression upon his imagination, and he longed, with an impatience
he could hardly control, to be again by her side. He was also fearful lest harm should befall
her during his absence.

All this gave him a stimulus to action, and caused him to use every endeavor to prepare for
his undertaking. When everything was at last ready he departed with all possible despatch.

In the evening after leaving Boston, as the English approached Lake Quinsigamond, when more
than a mile from the Indian head-quarters, they heard the shouting of the warriors above described.

Merwin commanded his men to conceal themselves in a thicket in the dense wood, whence they
could observe the Indians as they passed. He found they considerably outnumbered his own force.
As they evidently had no suspicion of the presence of an enemy, he determined to follow them
cautiously, wait until weary with revelling they should fall asleep, and then surprise them
after their own mode of warfare. He deployed his men, and held them in readiness. Toward day
dawn, when the Indians had sunk into a profound slumber, he ordered the attack.

The English advanced stealthily, and were almost in the camp before they were discovered by
the sentinel, who gave the alarm.

This came too late. The English rushed forward with cheers, and were among the surprised Indians
before they were fairly awake. The latter hurriedly seized their weapons and made what resistance
they could; but this was ineffectual. The struggle was sharp and brief. Many of the best warriors
were soon killed, and the rest fled precipitately, following the women and children who escaped
into the woods when the combat began.

Merwin, as soon as he saw that his men were fairly engaged with the Indians, called a few trusty
fellows, and went in search of Millicent. Not finding her at the wigwam, he plunged into the
wood, following luckily the path taken by Ninigret.

After dragging the girl ruthlessly with him, until she fainted with fright, Ninigret laid her
on the ground for a moment, in order to arrange his weapons, so that he might bear her away
in his arms. While doing this he espied Merwin advancing, and, taking hasty aim at him with
his musket, fired. The ball missed its mark and struck one of Merwin's companions. As the Indian
bounded off Merwin raised his rifle and fired in return, with deadly effect. Ninigret, leaping
high in the air, fell dead, pierced through the heart. The English bore his body a short distance
into the forest, and, leaving it to such a burial as nature might grant, hurried back to Millicent,
who still lay in a swoon. They then carried her to the scene of battle and placed her in one
of the wigwams lately occupied by the Indians.

For a week Capt. Merwin and his men remained in the vicinity to intercept any band of Indians
that might be passing westward. Merwin, although often away upon scouting expeditions, found
ample time to improve his acquaintance with his rescued charge, in whom he was fast becoming
deeply interested. It was the evening before their departure for Boston. The air was soft and
laden with the fragrance of flowers; the lake, its surface unruffled by a ripple, lay spread
like a great mirror, reflecting the lustre of the full moon. Two persons stood near the water's
edge contemplating the beauty of the scene. The quiet harmony of nature seemed to possess their
souls, and for a time neither spoke. Millicent was the first to break the silence.

"What serenity after the strife of last week!"

"It is, indeed, a contrast this night. Let us sit here awhile and enjoy its beauty," said Merwin;
and, assisting Millicent to a seat upon the trunk of a fallen tree, he placed himself at her feet.

"How strange it all seems! Here I am in the forest, as I was a week ago, yet under such different
circumstances,--free from my enemies and surrounded by only friends."

"And another week will change your surroundings entirely; and the new friends made now will,
like the Indians, be present but in memory. You know to-morrow we are to leave here."

"I can hardly realize it. Ah, Captain Merwin! can it be that I shall so soon leave Wigwam Hill,
the scene of my trying life of captivity, behind me?"

"Yes; by to-morrow at this time, I trust, you will be far from this spot where you have suffered
so much. This beautiful lake will always recall unpleasant associations to your mind, I fear,
while to mine it will recall some of the pleasantest hours of my life."

"No; I, too, shall have pleasant recollections of these shores. The memory of your noble kindness
to me will not be effaced. But tell me, where do we go then?" Millicent asked, rather seriously.

"It cannot matter to you where I and my men go; but you I hope to take to your sister."

"To Martha, Captain Merwin? Is my dear sister then alive? Is there no doubt of it?"

"None."

"Is it possible? What happiness!" breathed Millicent, with tears in her eyes. "I cannot believe
it. I cannot believe that I shall again see my dear sister, whom I have so long supposed dead.
How did you know she was alive; and why have you not told me this before?"

"Because I wished to surprise you just before our departure. You will not deprive me of that
last pleasure, would you?" asked the captain in a low voice, smiling faintly. "I made all possible
inquiry when in Boston, and, just as about to depart with the troops, received accurate news
of her whereabouts."

"I see; and so she is safe, and we shall meet before many days. Where is she, please?" asked
Millicent, smiling divinely upon Merwin.

Drinking in the sweetness of the smile the captain gave her an account of her sister's fortune,
and of her surroundings.

"The Stantons, with whom she is, are friends of mine," he observed, rather gloomily.

"Ah, indeed; then it will be a pleasant meeting all around!" and she clapped her hands with
joy. Then, noticing the captain's gravity, she said, "Why are you so sad, Captain Merwin?"

"Oh, I don't know. I did not mean to be," and he tried to smile. "Yes, I think I do appear
rather glum,--don't mind the word, it is so expressive of my feelings. You see, this last week
has been so pleasant, we have become such good friends, and learned to know each other's tastes
so well, and I have enjoyed so intensely giving you your freedom and sharing it with you, that
the thought that it must all end, that I must take you back to interests which I can know nothing
of and have no share in, is just a little hard to bear at present. You will think me selfish;
forgive me, I did not mean to mention it, but you asked me."

She held out her hand to him and said, "You are my trusted friend, and will be my sister's
when she knows what you have done for me; so do not say you will have no share in our interests."

"You are very kind," he replied, pressing her hand tightly in his, then dropping it suddenly.

"Captain Merwin," said Millicent, in turn looking grave, "the past year I have lived in an
atmosphere of treachery and revenge; the minds of those with whom I have been associated were
filled with anything but Christian thoughts. Unkindness and ill-feeling have found a fertile
soil upon which to thrive in their hearts; but deep in my own I ever kept a spot green, where
the plant of gratitude could again grow should the occasion offer. It did offer. The seeds
were sown by a kind and generous hand; the plant grew quickly, and to-day it blossomed in full.
Deeply grateful for what you have done for me, I beg you to accept its flowers." And, with
tears in her eyes, she held toward him a small exquisitely selected bunch of fragrant white
azalias.

Taking the blossoms tenderly he lifted them to his lips. "What a pretty idea! Who but you would
have thought of rewarding a common deed of kindness so sweetly? I shall cherish these flowers,
they are so like you. Did you really pick them for me?"

"Yes, and selected them out of many. It was all I had. If ever I can reward you better tell
me, for I would willingly do you any favor to pay the debt of gratitude I owe you. I assure
you I feel my obligation deeply," said Millicent, blushing.

"There is a reward you could give me now; but I scarcely dare ask it, for I know it to be more
than I deserve." And the captain gazed at Millicent with a look that brought a bright blush
to the young girl's cheek.

"Perhaps it is not," she replied, hesitatingly. "I don't think I understand you."

"Well, then, Millicent,--may I call you that?--the drawing-room term of Miss does not suit
our simple life here." And, as she nodded assent, he continued, "Will you answer a question,
even a hard one?"

"I will try."

"Tell me, then, if ever in the heart where the plant of gratitude grew another far sweeter
flower has grown?"

"That of friendship do you mean?"

"Yes; the plant might be called friendship, but its blossom is love. Ah, Millicent! may I not
take the fairest of these sweet flowers, and, placing it in the centre, call it love surrounded
by gratitude? Then would my nosegay be perfect indeed."

Millicent looked, beyond the ardent gaze of the captain, into the lake, and made no reply.

"Throwing off the language of flowers, and all language but that of simple truth, the reward
I desire above all on earth is yourself. I know my request is a bold one, and I ought, I suppose,
not to make it for months, if ever. But come it must, and to-night my heart has forced it to
my lips."

"It is very sudden," Millicent answered, faintly.

"I know that, but, after all, most deep feelings are sudden. In the savages, with whom you
have been associated, have you not seen hate and other strong passions develop in a moment?
Why, then, should not love, in a more appropriate soil, spring to life? It certainly has taken
deep root in my heart. Give me some answer, Millicent, if it be but that of hope deferred.
Can you ever love me?"

"What if I do now?" said Millicent, demurely.

"Do you really, Millicent? Then I am the proudest, happiest man alive," said Merwin. And, possessing
himself of both her hands, kissed them vehemently.

"I trust I am doing right, Captain Merwin; I am almost sure I love you."

"Thank you, dearest, thank you, for your sweet words. Your reward for them shall be my life
devoted to your service." And he drew her to him and kissed her lips.

"You deserve a whole life of thanks, Captain Merwin"--

"Call me Harold."

"--for releasing me from such a captivity, Harold, and, lastly, from death, or worse than death."
And weeping, she threw her arms about his neck and buried her head on his shoulder.

"My brave darling, I hope and believe your troubles are at an end. I only wonder your strength
has survived the hardships of such a life as yours has been the past year."

"Think of how much has happened in the last short weeks!"

"True, ours has been a courtship in which the bitter and the sweet have been equally mingled,
but now the peace complete is coning love, for King Philip is dead and the war is over."

THE PICTURE.

BY MARY D. BRINE.

  It was only a simple picture,
    The simplest, perhaps, of all
  The many and costly paintings
    That hung on the parlor wall;
  But it held my gaze the longest,
    And it touched my inmost heart
  With a pathos in which the others
    Held neither place nor part.

  It showed me a lonely hill-side,
    Where the light of the day had fled,
  And the clouds of an angry twilight
    Were gathering overhead;
  And under the deepening shadows,
    Tired and sore afraid,
  A sheep and her lamb were grieving,
    Far from the sheepfold strayed.

  Only a simple picture;
    But oh, how full of truth,
  Which silently spoke from the canvas
    Its lesson of age and youth!
  For are we not sheep, sore needing
    The safety of Christ's own fold?
  And do we not often wander
    Far from his loving hold,

