Simultaneously with the spread of Christianity still another power began to trample on the
liberties of the people. This was the power of the sword. In early times, before civilization
had advanced enough to give everybody continuous employment, most people spent their leisure
moments in making war. Hence the Swedish kings, whose duty it was to keep the peace, could
accomplish that result only by having a large retinue of armed warriors at their command. The
expense which this entailed was great. Meantime the crown estates had continually increased
in number through merger of private estates of different kings, through crown succession to
estates of foreigners dying without descendants in the realm, and through other sources. Some
of the kings, therefore, devised the scheme of enlisting the influential aristocracy in their
service by granting them fiefs in the crown estates, with right to all the crown incomes from
the fief. This plan was eagerly caught at by the aristocrats, and before long nearly all the
influential people in the realm were in the service of the king. Thus the position of royal
courtier, which had formerly been a mark of servitude, was now counted an honor, the courtiers
being now commonly known as magnates. About the year 1200 castles were first erected on some
of the crown estates, and the magnates who held these castles as fiefs were not slow to take
advantage of their power. Being already the most influential men in their provinces, and generally
the county or provincial magistrates, they gradually usurped the right to govern the surrounding
territory, not as magistrates of the people, but as grantees of the crown estates. Since these
fiefs were not hereditary, the rights usurped by the holders of them passed, on the death of
the grantees, to the crown, and in 1276 we find a king granting not only one of his royal castles,
but also right of administration over the surrounding land. Thus, by continual enlargement
of the royal fiefs, the authority of the provincial assemblies, and even of the county assemblies,
was practically destroyed. Still, these assemblies continued to exist, and in them the poor
landowners claimed the same rights as the more influential magnates. The magnates, as such,
possessed no privileges, and were only powerful because of their wealth, which enabled them
to become courtiers or warriors of the king. In 1280, however, a law was passed exempting all
mounted courtiers from crown taxation. This law was the foundation of the nobility of Sweden.
It divided the old landowners, formerly all equal, into two distinct classes,--the knights,
who were the mounted warriors of the king; and the poorer landowners, on whom, together with
the class of tenants, was cast the whole burden of taxation. With the progress of time, exemption
from crown taxation was extended to the sons of knights unless, on reaching manhood, they failed
to serve the king with horse. The knights were thus a privileged and hereditary class. Those
of the old magnates who did not become knights were known as armigers, or armor-clad foot-soldiers.
The armigers also became an hereditary class, and before long they too were exempted from crown
taxation. In many cases the armigers were raised to the rank of knights. Thus the wealthy landowners
increased in power, while the poor, who constituted the great body of the nation, grew ever
poorer. Many, to escape the taxes shifted to their shoulders from the shoulders of the magnates,
sank into the class of tenants, with whom, indeed, they now had much in common. The sword had
raised the strong into a privileged aristocracy, and degraded the weak into a down-trodden
peasantry.

The aristocracy and the Church,--these were the thorns that sprang up to check the nation's
growth. Each had had the same source,--a power granted by the people. But no sooner were they
independent of their benefactors, than they made common cause in oppressing the peasantry who
had given them birth. They found their point of union in the Cabinet. This was originally a
body of men whom the king summoned whenever he needed counsel or support. Naturally he sought
support among the chief men of his realm. As the power of the Church and aristocracy increased,
the king was practically forced to summon the chief persons in these classes to his Cabinet,
and furthermore, in most cases, to follow their advice; so that by the close of the thirteenth
century the Cabinet had become a regular institution, whose members, known as Cabinet lords,
governed rather than advised the king. In the early part of the fourteenth century this institution
succeeded in passing a law that each new king must summon his Cabinet immediately after his
election. The same law provided that no foreigner could be a member of the Cabinet; that the
archbishop should be ex officio a member; that twelve laymen should be summoned, but no more;
and that, in addition, the king might summon as many of the bishops and clergy as he wished.
As a matter of fact this law was never followed. The Cabinet lords practically formed themselves
into a close corporation, appointing their own successors or compelling the king to appoint
whom they desired. Generally the members were succeeded by their sons, and in very many instances
we find fathers and sons sitting in the Cabinet together. A person once a Cabinet lord was
such for life. The law providing that the archbishop should have a seat in the Cabinet was
strictly followed, and in practice the bishops were also always members. The other clergy seem
never to have been summoned except in certain instances to aid their bishops or represent them
when they could not come. The provincial magistrates were generally members, though not always.
As to the number of temporal lords, it was almost invariably more than twelve, sometimes double
as many. From the very first, this self-appointed oligarchy saw that in unity was strength;
and while the different members of the royal family were squabbling among themselves, the Cabinet
seized the opportunity to increase its power. Though not entitled to a definite salary, it
was regularly understood that Cabinet lords were to be paid by grants of the chief fiefs; and
when these fiefs were extended so as to embrace the whole, or nearly the whole, of a province,
the grant of such a fief ordinarily carried with it the office of provincial magistrate. Thus
the Cabinet became the centre of administration for the kingdom. From this it gradually usurped
the right to legislate for the whole realm, to lay new taxes on the people, and to negotiate
treaties with foreign powers. Lastly, it robbed the people of their ancient right to nominate
and confirm their kings. These prerogatives, however, were not exercised without strong opposition.
Throughout the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the peasantry battled with vigor against
the arrogant assumptions of the Cabinet, never relinquishing their claim to be governed as
of yore. This struggle against the encroachments of the oligarchy at last resulted in the revolution
under Gustavus Vasa. Hence we may with profit trace the relation between the Cabinet and the
people from the start.

The first case in which the Cabinet distinctly asserted an authority over the whole land occurred
in 1319, when the king, after a long and bitter struggle with different members of the royal
house, had finally been driven from the throne. The Cabinet then resolved to place the crown
on the head of the former monarch's grandson, a child but three years old. With this in view,
they called all the magnates in the realm and four peasants from every county to a general
diet, where the chancellor of the Cabinet stepped forward with the infant in his arms, and
moved that this infant be elected king. "Courtiers, peasantry, and all with one accord responded,
'Amen.'" This was the first general diet held in Sweden, and it showed a marked decline in
the people's rights. From beginning to end the proceedings of this diet were regulated by the
Cabinet, and the people were practically forced to acquiesce. Even had the people possessed
a real voice in the election, their influence would have been far less than formerly, since
here they had but four representatives from each county against the entire class of magnates,
whereas originally every landowner, whether magnate or peasant, had an equal vote. During the
minority of this king the power of the Cabinet made rapid strides. He was forced to borrow
from them enormous sums of money, for which he mortgaged nearly all the royal castles; so that
when he came of age he was thoroughly under the dominion of the Cabinet. He struggled hard,
however, to shake off his shackles, and with some success. Among other things, he passed a
law which was intended to restore to the people at large their ancient right to choose their
kings. This law provided that whenever a king was to be chosen, each provincial magistrate,
with the assent of all landowners in his province, should select twelve men, who on a day appointed
were to meet in general diet with all the magistrates, and choose the king. Unhappily this
law was never followed, though the king by whom it was enacted struggled hard to maintain the
people's rights. In 1359, after a series of internal disorders, his Cabinet compelled him to
call a meeting of all the magnates in the realm; but in addition to the magnates he summoned
also delegates from the peasantry and burghers, evidently with a view to gain their aid in
curbing the insolence of the Cabinet. This was the second general diet. From this time forth
the king did all he could to strengthen the people, until at last he banished a number of his
chief opponents. They thereupon, in 1363, offered the crown to Albert of Mecklenburg, who by
their aid succeeded in overthrowing the king and getting possession of the throne. For a time
now the Cabinet had things nearly as they wished. In 1371 they forced the king to grant them
all the royal estates as fiefs, and to declare that on the death of any one of them his successor
should be chosen by the survivors. This astounding grant the Cabinet owed chiefly to the influence
of their chancellor, Bo Jonsson, who had done more than any other to set Albert on the throne;
and to him were granted as fiefs all the royal castles. In 1386 he died, leaving all his fiefs,
by will, to the chief magnates of the land. Against this Albert ventured to protest. He called
in a large number of his German countrymen, and by their aid recovered a large portion of his
power. He then began distributing royal favors among them with a lavish hand, to the detriment
of the Swedish magnates. These magnates therefore turned, in 1388, to Margaret, regent of Denmark
and Norway, and offered her the regency of Sweden, promising to recognize as king whomever
she should choose. In 1389 she entered Sweden with her army, overthrew King Albert, and got
possession of the throne. In 1396 the Swedish Cabinet, at her desire, elected her nephew, Erik
of Pomerania, already king of Denmark and Norway, to be king of Sweden; and on the 17th of
June, 1397, he was crowned at Kalmar.[4] Thus began the celebrated Kalmar Union, one of the
greatest political blunders that a nation ever made. It was the voluntary enslavement of a
whole people to suit the whims of a few disgruntled magnates.

The century following this catastrophe was marked by violence and bloodshed. In all the setting
up and pulling down of kings which ended in the Kalmar Union, the Swedish peasantry, now the
body of the nation, had had no part. They had long watched in silence the overpowering growth
of the magnates and of the Church; they had seen their own rights gradually, but surely, undermined;
and they now beheld the whole nation given into the hand of a foreign king. All this tyranny
was beginning to produce its natural effect. A spirit of rebellion was spreading fast. However,
open insurrection was for the moment averted by the prudence of the regent; so long as she
lived the people were tolerably content. She ruled the Cabinet with an iron hand, and refused
to appoint a chancellor, the officer who had hitherto done much to bind the Cabinet together.
After her death Erik attempted to carry out a similar policy, and introduced a number of foreigners
into the Swedish Cabinet. But his continual absence from the realm weakened his administration,
and gave great license to his officers, who by their cruelty won the hatred of the people.
At last, in 1433, the peasantry of Dalarne rebelled against the tyranny of the steward whom
their Danish ruler had put over them, and in 1435, under the leadership of a courageous warrior,
Engelbrekt Engelbrektsson, compelled the king to call a general diet, the first since 1359,
consisting of all the people in the realm who cared to take part. This diet, under the enthusiasm
of the moment, elected Engelbrekt commander of the kingdom. But the hopes of the peasantry
were soon blasted. In the next year Engelbrekt was murdered by a Swedish magnate, and by a
general diet Karl Knutsson, another magnate, was chosen to fill his place. King Erik was now
tottering to his fall. He was no longer king in anything but name. His fall, however, benefited
only the magnates of the realm. By a general diet of 1438, to which all people in the realm
were called, Knutsson was elected regent. But his reign came in the next year to an untimely
end. His fellow-magnates, jealous of his power, forced him to lay it down; and in 1440 the
Cabinet called Erik's nephew, Christopher of Bavaria, already king of Denmark, to the Swedish
throne. Thus ended the first effort of the Swedish peasantry to throw off the Danish yoke.
It had begun with high promises for the people, but had ended in the restoration of the Cabinet
to all its former power. From this time forth the Cabinet was again practically the governing
body in the realm. But it was no longer at unity with itself. One party, led by the great house
of Oxenstjerna, was for preserving the Union. The other consisted of the adherents of Karl
Knutsson, who hoped to put the crown on his own head. In 1448 King Christopher died, and, in
the difference of feeling which reigned, the Cabinet called a general diet of all the magnates
with representatives from the peasantry and burghers, that the people at large might choose
of the two evils that which pleased them best. The result was that Karl Knutsson was elected
king. From this time till his death, in 1470, he was in perpetual warfare with the king of
Denmark, with the Swedish priesthood, who had now grown fat under Danish rule and wished to
continue so, and with the hostile party among the magnates. Twice he was forced to lay down
the crown only to take it up again. Throughout his reign, though in some regards a despot,
he was, at all events, the champion of the Swedish magnates as opposed to those who favored
the continuance of foreign rule. In 1470 he died, after having intrusted Stockholm Castle to
his nephew, Sten Sture. The dissension that now reigned throughout the land was great. On one
side were the powerful Vasa and Oxenstjerna families, striving to put Christiern I. of Denmark
on the throne. On the other side was Sten Sture, the Tott, Gyllenstjerna, Bonde, Bjelke, and
Natt och Dag families, supported by the burgher element in Stockholm and the peasantry of Dalarne.
With such odds on their side the issue could not long be doubtful. At a general diet held in
1471, Sten Sture was chosen regent of the kingdom. It is impossible to overrate the significance
of this event. This was the first time that the burgher element played an important part in
the election of Sweden's ruler. The peasantry had once before been prominent, but so long as
the oligarchy held firmly together, their actual influence had been slight. Now the ranks of
the oligarchy were broken. One party looked for supporters in Denmark and in the Church; the
other, now gaining the upper hand, was distinctly the party of the people. The very name of
regent, which was granted to Sten Sture, bears witness to the popular character of the movement.
And this was destined to be the tendency of the current during the next half-century. There
were many difficulties, however, with which the patriot party had to contend. In the first
place, the Swedish party was in lack of funds. An enormous proportion of the kingdom was exempt
from taxes, being held by magnates, who by this time claimed the right to inherit their fathers'
fiefs with all the ancient privileges, but without the ancient duty to render military service.
In this juncture war broke out with Russia, at the same time that the kingdom was continually
harassed by Christiern, king of Denmark. It was clear that some new mode must be discovered
for raising money. The peasantry were already groaning under a heavier load than they could
bear. Sten therefore turned to some of the magnates, and demanded of them that they should
give up a portion of their fiefs. They of course resisted, and his whole reign was occupied
with a struggle to make them yield. In 1481 Christiern, king of Denmark, died, and was succeeded
by his son Hans. The efforts of Sten Sture to curb the magnates had rendered him so unpopular
among them, that the Swedish Cabinet now opened negotiations with the new king of Denmark.
These negotiations resulted in a meeting of the Cabinets of the three Northern kingdoms, held
at Kalmar in 1483. This body promulgated a decree, known in history as the Kalmar Recess, accepting
Hans as king of Sweden. To this decree Sten Sture reluctantly affixed his seal. The main clauses
of the decree were these: No one in Sweden was to be held accountable for past opposition to
King Hans; the king was to live one year alternately in each kingdom; the high posts as well
as the fiefs of Sweden should be granted to none but Swedes; and the magnates should be free
to fortify their estates and refuse the king admittance. This decree, if strictly followed,
would have practically freed Sweden from the yoke of Denmark. But as a matter of fact it was
several years before it was destined to go into operation at all. The Swedish Cabinet were
determined that no step should be taken to put the decree into effect until certain preliminary
duties were discharged; among them, the cession of the island of Gotland to Sweden. These preliminaries
Hans was in no hurry to perform. Meantime Sten Sture continued to act as regent. His path remained
as rugged as before. Beset on all sides by enemies, each struggling for his own aggrandizement,
Sten had all he could do to keep the kingdom from going to pieces. In every measure to increase
the income of the crown he was hampered by the overweening power of the Cabinet, who were reluctant
to give up a jot or tittle of their ill-acquired wealth. Chief among his opponents was the
archbishop, Jacob Ulfsson,--a man of rare ability, but of high birth and far too fond of self-advancement.
Another enemy, who ought to have been a friend, was Svante Sture, a young magnate of great
talent, who first became imbittered against his illustrious namesake because the latter, on
the death of Svante's father, in 1494, claimed that the fiefs which he had held should be surrendered
to the crown. Of Erik Trolle, another opponent of Sten Sture, we shall see more hereafter.
His strongest supporter was one Hemming Gad, a learned, eloquent, and dauntless gentleman,
who also was to play a leading rôle before many years were past. In 1493 war broke out again
with Russia, and Hans resolved to seize this opportunity to make good his claims in Sweden.
He opened negotiations once more with the disaffected members of the Cabinet, still hoping
to make compromise with Sture; they hesitated, they promised, and then made new demands; and
it was in the midst of this elaborate trifling, while the regent was in Finland conducting
the Russian war, that Gustavus Vasa was born at Lindholm.

Affairs in Sweden were now fast coming to a crisis. The fitful struggle of a century had at
last assumed a definite and unmistakable direction. All Sweden was now divided into two distinct
and hostile camps, and to the dullest intellect it was clear as day that Sweden was soon to
be the scene of open war. In the autumn of 1496 the Cabinet, seeing that Sture was thoroughly
determined to check their power, resolved to hesitate no longer. They therefore despatched
a messenger to Hans, inviting him to a congress of the three realms to be held at midsummer
of the following year, when, as they gave him reason to expect, the Kalmar Recess should be
put into effect. This news being brought to Sture in Finland, he set forth post-haste for Sweden,
and called a meeting of the Cabinet. The members failed to appear on the day appointed, and
when at last they came, they were accompanied by a large body of armed retainers. At a session
held in Stockholm on the 7th of March, the Cabinet declared Sture deposed, assigning as reasons,
first, that he had mismanaged the war with Russia, and, secondly, that he had maltreated certain
of the Swedish magnates. The regent waited two days before making a reply, and then informed
the Cabinet that, as he had been appointed to the regency by joint action of the Cabinet and
people, he felt bound to hold it till requested by the same powers to lay it down. The Cabinet
had nothing for it but to acquiesce, and letters were issued summoning a general diet. That
diet, however, was never held. On the very day when the Cabinet made its armistice with Sture,
Hans put forth a declaration of war, and at once proceeded with his fleet to Kalmar. The enemies
of Sture now openly embraced the Danish cause; and the regent was forced to go to Dalarne,
to get together a force with which to defend the kingdom. Here he was received with enthusiasm
by the people, who saw in him the defender of their rights. At the head of a detachment of
Dalesmen, reinforced by his army now recalled from Finland, he marched to Upsala, and laid
siege to the archbishop's palace. By the middle of July it fell; and Sture advanced to Stäket,
a strongly fortified castle of the archbishop, about thirty miles south of Upsala. While beleaguering
this place, he learned that a portion of the Danish forces were advancing on the capital. He
therefore relinquished the siege of Stäket, and proceeded to Stockholm, where he held himself
in readiness to repel the enemy. On the 29th of September, being led by a ruse outside the
city, he was surrounded by the Danes, and was able to recover the castle only after heavy loss.
This battle sealed his fate. Finding himself far outnumbered, he deemed it wise to yield; and
on the 6th of October, 1497, Hans was recognized by him as king.

The reign of Hans lasted about four years. At first he appeared desirous to promote the welfare
of Sweden and to conform to the terms of the Kalmar Recess. But before long even the Cabinet
began to grow weary of their king. The benefits conferred upon them were not so great as they
had hoped. As for Sture, at his renunciation of the regency he had been granted extensive fiefs
both in Sweden and in Finland; but in 1499 the king forced him to resign a large portion of
these fiefs. The other members of the Cabinet, now having less cause of jealousy, became more
friendly to Sten Sture. His old enemy, Svante Sture, was at length reconciled to him through
the mediation of their common admirer, Dr. Hemming Gad. Even with the clergy Sten Sture was
now on better terms; and at his solicitation, in January, 1501, the Chapter of Linköping elected
Gad to fill their vacant see. The main ground of complaint against Hans was that he disregarded
the clause of the Recess which forbade the granting of Swedish fiefs to Danes. Matters reached
a crisis in 1501, when Sten and Svante Sture, Gad, and three others met in council and took
oath to resist the oppression of their foreign ruler. This step was the signal for a general
explosion. On every side the people rose in arms. Hans was in despair. He first took counsel
with his warm supporter, the archbishop, and then, on the 11th of August, 1501, set off with
his whole fleet for Denmark.

In the royal castle at Stockholm he left his wife Christina, who, with Erik Trolle and a force
of one thousand men, was determined to resist. Gad, whose election to the bishopric of Linköping
the pope refused to ratify, undertook to besiege the castle. Meantime Svante Sture laid siege
to Örebro, and Sten proceeded to Dalarne and other parts to gather forces. On the 12th of November
the Cabinet again called Sten Sture to the regency. In February the Castle of Örebro fell.
And still Christina with her brave followers held out. Not till the 9th of May, after a bloody
assault, could the patriots force a passage. Then they found that, of the one thousand who
had formed the original garrison, but seventy were alive. Christina was conveyed to Vadstena,
where she remained several months pending negotiations. At the close of the year 1503 she was
accompanied to the frontier by the regent, who however was taken ill on his return journey,
and died at Jönköping on the 13th of December, 1503. Sten Sture had done much for Sweden. Though
himself a magnate, and ambitious to increase his power, he was zealous for the welfare of his
country, and did more than any other of his time to awake Sweden to a sense of her existence
as a nation. It was on the foundation laid by him that a still greater leader was soon to build
a mighty edifice.

On the 21st of January, 1504, at a general diet of the magnates, with delegates from the burghers
and peasantry of Sweden, Svante Sture was elected regent. His reign was even more warlike than
that of his predecessor. The Cabinet, it is true, had come to see the benefits resulting from
Sten Sture's rule, and the majority of them were lukewarm adherents of the Swedish party. But
Hans was more determined than ever to seize the crown, and not only harassed Svante throughout
his reign by a long series of invasions, but did all he could to compromise him with other
foreign powers. Svante, however, succeeded in winning many friends. In 1504 he concluded a
truce of twenty years with Russia, which was extended, by treaty of 1510, to 1564. In 1510
an alliance was also formed between Sweden and the Vend cities. In 1506 the Dalesmen, at one
of their assemblies, issued a letter to the people of their provinces, urging them to support
Svante with life and limb. But this burst of enthusiasm was short-lived. The war with Hans
hung on. New taxes had to be imposed, and several fiefs to which different magnates laid claim
were appropriated to the crown. Discontent spread once more, and at a Cabinet meeting held
in September, 1511, Svante was declared deposed. He refused to yield till heard by a general
diet of the kingdom, and while negotiations were pending, on the 2d of January, 1512, he died.

Nothing could have given certain members of the Cabinet greater pleasure. The clerical members
especially, being warmly attached to the Danish cause, thought they now saw an opportunity
to set Hans on the throne. About the middle of January the Cabinet came together and, at the
solicitation of Archbishop Ulfsson, resolved to intrust the government for the time being to
Erik Trolle. This gentleman, of whom we have already seen something, was of high birth as well
as talent, thoroughly versed in affairs, and allied to the Danish party not only by family
connection, but also by reason of large estates in Denmark. He was, moreover, a warm friend
of the archbishop.

However, the hopes of Trolle were not destined to be realized. At the death of Svante, the
Castle of Örebro was in command of a daring and ambitious youth of nineteen, known to history
as Sten Sture the Younger. He was Svante's son, and in the preceding year had married Christina
Gyllenstjerna, a great-granddaughter of King Karl Knutsson. Immediately on hearing of his father's
death, he hastened to Vesterås, took possession of the castle, and despatched a messenger to
convey the news to Stockholm. On the 8th of January the steward of Stockholm Castle declared
his readiness to yield the command to Sture, and within a day or two the castles of Stegeborg
and Kalmar were also given up. The energy with which this chivalrous youth seized the helm
is all the more astounding when we reflect that he stood almost alone against the Cabinet.
He could not even ask the advice of Gad, his father's trusty friend, for that doughty patriot
was at the moment outside the realm. But his zeal won him numerous friends among the younger
magnates, and the peasantry throughout the country were on his side. All winter long the battle
raged between the two factions, but meantime Sture continually grew in favor. No general diet
of the kingdom was summoned, but it was understood on every hand that the matter would be submitted
to the people when they came together on St. Erik's day at Upsala. On that day, May 18, the
archbishop and his followers addressed the people in the Grand Square at Upsala, and announced
that the Cabinet had resolved to raise Erik Trolle to the regency. But they were met by shouts
from the crowd, who declared that they would have no Danes. Meantime Sture had been holding
a mass-meeting on the so-called Royal Meadow outside the town, and had been enthusiastically
applauded by the people. Even yet, however, the conflict did not cease. The Cabinet still clamored
for Erik Trolle, and it was not till the 23d of July, when every hope was gone, that they finally
gave way and recognized Sture as regent. Sture now set forth on a journey through Sweden and
Finland, receiving everywhere the allegiance of the people. All at last seemed in his favor,
when suddenly, on the 20th of February, 1513, the face of things was changed by the unexpected
death of Hans.

