DEAREST UNCLE,--Though not my day I must write you a line to say how vexed we are at this most
unfortunate and most imprudent brochure of Joinville's;[12] it has made a very bad effect here,
and will rouse all the envy and hatred between the two Navies again, which it was our great
effort to subdue--and this all for nothing! I can't tell you how angry people are, and how
poor Hadjy will get abused. And this all after our having been on such intimate terms with
him and having sailed with him! If he comes here, what shall we do? Receive with open arms
one who has talked of ravaging our coasts and burning our towns? Indeed it is most lamentable;
you know how we like him, and that therefore it must be very annoying to us to see him get
himself into such a scrape. We shall overlook it, but the people here won't! It will blow over,
but it will do immense harm. We who wish to become more and more closely united with the French
family are, of course, much put out by this return. We shall forgive and forget, and feel it
was not intended to be published--but the public here will not so easily, and will put the
worst construction on it all.

Pray, dearest Uncle, tell me what could possess Joinville to write it, and still more to have
it printed? Won't it annoy the King and Nemours very much? Enfin c'est malheureux, c'est indiscret
au plus haut degré--and it provokes and vexes us sadly. Tell me all you know and think about
it; for you can do so with perfect safety by our courier.

I have written dearest Louise an account of my old birthday, which will please you, I think.
The weather is very fine. Ever your truly devoted Niece and Child,

VICTORIA R.

[Footnote 12: The brochure was entitled, Notes sur les forces navales de la France. The Prince
de Joinville wrote as follows to the Queen: "Le malheureux éclat de ma brochure, le tracas
que cela donne au Père et à la Reine, me font regretter vivement de l'avoir faite. Comme je
l'écris à ton Roi, je ne renvoie que mépris à toutes les interprétations qu'on y donne; ce
que peuvent dire ministre et journaux ne me touche en rien, mais il n'y a pas de sacrifices
que je ne suis disposé à faire pour l'intérieur de la Famille."]

[Pageheading: THE CZAR NICHOLAS]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

29th May 1844.

If Lord Aberdeen should not have read the Prince de Joinville's pamphlet, the Queen recommends
him to do so, as one cannot judge fairly by the extracts in the newspapers. Though it does
not lessen the extreme imprudence of the Prince's publishing what must do harm to the various
French Governments, it certainly is not intentionally written to offend England, and on the
contrary frankly proves us to be immensely superior to the French Navy in every way.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 4th June 1844.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--I gave Louise a long and detailed description of the Emperor,[13] etc. The
papers are full of the details. But the expression of the eyes is formidable, and unlike anything
I ever saw before. Really, it seems like a dream when I think that we breakfast and walk out
with this greatest of all earthly Potentates as quietly as if we walked, etc., with Charles
or any one. We took him, with the dear good King of Saxony,[14] who is a great contrast to
the Czar (and with whom I am quite at my ease), to Adelaide Cottage after breakfast. The grass
here is just as if it had been burned with fire. How many different Princes have we not gone
the same round with!! The children are much admired by the Sovereigns--(how grand this sounds!)--and
Alice allowed the Emperor to take her in his arms, and kissed him de son propre accord. We
are always so thankful that they are not shy. Both the Emperor and the King are quite enchanted
with Windsor. The Emperor said very poliment: "C'est digne de vous, Madame." I must say the
Waterloo Room lit up with that entire service of gold looks splendid; and the Reception Room,
beautiful to sit in afterwards. The Emperor praised my Angel very much, saying: "C'est impossible
de voir un plus joli garçon; il a l'air si noble et si bon"; which I must say is very true.
The Emperor amused the King and me by saying he was so embarrassé when people were presented
to him, and that he felt so "gauche" en frac, which certainly he is quite unaccustomed to wear.
If we can do anything to get him to do what is right by you, we shall be most happy, and Peel
and Aberdeen are very anxious for it. I believe he leaves on Sunday again. To-morrow there
is to be a great review, and on Thursday I shall probably go with them to the races; they are
gone there with Albert to-day, but I have remained at home.

I think it is time to conclude my long letter.

If the French are angry at this visit, let their dear King and their Princes come; they will
be sure of a truly affectionate reception on our part. The one which Emperor Nicholas has received
is cordial and civil, mais ne vient pas du c[oe]ur.

I humbly beg that any remarks which may not be favourable to our great visitor may not go beyond
you and Louise, and not to Paris. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 13: The Emperor Nicholas of Russia had just arrived
    on a visit to England.]

    [Footnote 14: Frederick Augustus II.]

[Pageheading: THE REVIEW]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S IMPRESSIONS]

[Pageheading: THE CZAR NICHOLAS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

Buckingham Palace, 11th June 1844.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received your very kind and long letter of the 7th on Sunday, and thank
you very much for it. I am delighted that my accounts interested you, and I shall try and give
you some more to-day, which you will see come from an unbiassed and impartial mind, and which
I trust therefore will be relied upon. The excitement has ceased as suddenly as it had begun,
and I am still confused about it. I will go back to where I last left you. The Revue[15] on
the 5th was really very interesting, and our reception as well as that of the Emperor most
enthusiastic. Louise tells me you had a review the same day, and that it also was so hot. Our
children were there, and charmed. On the 6th we went with the Emperor and King to the races,[16]
and I never saw such a crowd; again here the reception was most brilliant. Every evening a
large dinner in the Waterloo Room, and the two last evenings in uniforms, as the Emperor disliked
so being en frac, and was quite embarrassed in it. On the 7th we took him and the King back
here, and in the evening had a party of 260 about. On Saturday (8th) my Angel took the Emperor
and King to a very elegant breakfast[17] at Chiswick, which I for prudence' sake did not go
to, but was very sorry for it. In the evening we went to the Opera (not in State), but they
recognised us, and we were most brilliantly received. I had to force the Emperor forward, as
he never would come forward when I was there, and I was obliged to take him by the hand and
make him appear; it was impossible to be better bred or more respectful than he was towards
me. Well, on Sunday afternoon at five, he left us (my Angel accompanied him to Woolwich), and
he was much affected at going, and really unaffectedly touched at his reception and stay, the
simplicity and quietness of which told upon his love of domestic life, which is very great.
I will now (having told all that has passed) give you my opinion and feelings on the subject,
which I may say are Albert's also. There is much about him which I cannot help liking, and
I think his character is one which should be understood, and looked upon for once as it is.
He is stern and severe--with fixed principles of duty which nothing on earth will make him
change; very clever I do not think him, and his mind is an uncivilised one; his education has
been neglected; politics and military concerns are the only things he takes great interest
in; the arts and all softer occupations he is insensible to, but he is sincere, I am certain,
sincere even in his most despotic acts, from a sense that that is the only way to govern; he
is not, I am sure, aware of the dreadful cases of individual misery which he so often causes,
for I can see by various instances that he is kept in utter ignorance of many things, which
his people carry out in most corrupt ways, while he thinks that he is extremely just. He thinks
of general measures, but does not look into detail. And I am sure much never reaches his ears,
and (as you observed), how can it? He asked for nothing whatever, has merely expressed his
great anxiety to be upon the best terms with us, but not to the exclusion of others, only let
things remain as they are.... He is I should say, too frank, for he talks so openly before
people, which he should not do, and with difficulty restrains himself. He was not only civil,
but extremely kind to us both, and spoke in the highest praise of dearest Albert to Sir Robert
Peel, saying he wished any Prince in Germany had that ability and sense; he showed Albert great
confidence, and I think it will do great good, as if he praises him abroad it will have great
weight. He is not happy, and that melancholy which is visible in the countenance made me sad
at times; the sternness of the eyes goes very much off when you know him, and changes according
to his being put out (and he can be much embarrassed) or not, and also from his being heated,
as he suffers with congestions to the head. My Angel thinks that he is a man inclined too much
to give way to impulse and feeling, which makes him act wrongly often. His admiration for beauty
is very great, and put me much in mind of you, when he drove out with us, looking out for pretty
people. But he remains very faithful to those he admired twenty-eight years ago; for instance,
Lady Peel, who has hardly any remains left. Respecting Belgium he did not speak to me, but
to Albert and the Ministers. As for unkindly feeling towards you, he disclaims positively any,
saying he knew you well, and that you had served in the Russian Army, etc., but he says those
unfortunate Poles are the only obstacle, and that he positively cannot enter into direct communication
with Belgium as long as they are employed. If you could only somehow or other get rid of them,
I am sure the thing would be done at once. We all think he need not mind this, but I fear he
has pledged himself. He admired Charlotte's picture. Pour finir, I must say one more word or
two about his personal appearance. He puts us much in mind of his and our cousins the Würtembergs,
and has altogether much of the Würtemberg family about him. He is bald now, but in his Chevalier
Garde Uniform he is magnificent still, and very striking. I cannot deny that we were in great
anxiety when we took him out lest some Pole might make an attempt, and I always felt thankful
when we got him safe home again. His poor daughter is very ill, I fear. The good King of Saxony[18]
remains another week with us, and we like him much. He is so unassuming. He is out sight-seeing
all day, and enchanted with everything. I hope that you will persuade the King to come all
the same in September. Our motives and politics are not to be exclusive, but to be on good
terms with all, and why should we not? We make no secret of it.

Now I must end this very long letter. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

You will kindly not speak of these details, but only in allgemein say the visit went off very
satisfactorily on both sides, and that it was highly pacific.

    [Footnote 15: In honour of the Emperor a Review was held in
    Windsor Great Park.]

    [Footnote 16: At Ascot.]

    [Footnote 17: Given by the Duke of Devonshire.]

    [Footnote 18: See ante, p. 12.]

[Pageheading: A PARLIAMENTARY CRISIS]

[Pageheading: THE KING OF SAXONY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 18th June 1844.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the happiness of receiving your dear and kind letter of the 13th on
Sunday; your parties at Ardenne must have been truly delightful; perhaps some day we may enjoy
them too: that would be delightful! I can write to you with a light heart, thank goodness,
to-day, for the Government obtained a majority, which up to the last moment last night we feared
they would not have, and we have been in sad trouble for the last four or five days about it.[19]
It is the more marvellous, as, if the Government asked for a Vote of Confidence, they would
have a Majority of 100; but this very strength makes the supporters of the Government act in
a most unjustifiable manner by continually acting and voting against them, not listening to
the debates, but coming down and voting against the Government. So that we were really in the
greatest possible danger of having a resignation of the Government without knowing to whom
to turn, and this from the recklessness of a handful of foolish half "Puseyite" half "Young
England"[20] people! I am sure you will agree with me that Peel's resignation would not only
be for us (for we cannot have a better and a safer Minister), but for the whole country, and
for the peace of Europe--a great calamity. Our present people are all safe, and not led away
by impulses and reckless passions. We must, however, take care and not get into another crisis;
for I assure you we have been quite miserable and quite alarmed ever since Saturday.

Since I last wrote to you, I spoke to Aberdeen (whom I should be equally sorry to lose, as
he is so very fair, and has served us personally, so kindly and truly), and he told me that
the Emperor has positively pledged himself to send a Minister to Brussels the moment those
Poles are no longer employed;[21] that he is quite aware of the importance of the measure,
and would be disposed to make the arrangement easy, and that he spoke very kindly of you personally.
Aberdeen says it is not necessary to disgrace them in any way, but only for the present de
les éloigner. The Emperor has evidently some time ago made some strong declaration on the subject
which he feels he cannot get over, and, as I said before, he will not give up what he has once
pledged his word to. Then, no one on earth can move him. Au fond, it is a fine trait, but he
carries it too far. He wrote me a very kind and affectionate letter from the Hague. The Emperor
has given Bertie the Grand Cross of St Andrew, which the boy was quite proud of.

Our kind and good King of Saxony leaves us to-morrow, after having seen more than anybody has
done almost, and having enjoyed it of all things. He is quite at home with us and the children,
whom he plays with much. Alice walks quite alone, and looks too funny, as she is so very fat.
Lord Melbourne was very glad to have the opportunity of seeing the Emperor of Russia at Chiswick.
Lord Melbourne humbly believes that the opinion, which your Majesty has formed and expresses
of the Emperor's character is just, and he considers it extremely fortunate that a sovereign
of such weight and influence in Europe, and with whom it is probable that Great Britain will
have such near and intimate relations, should also be a man upon whose honour and veracity
strong reliance may be safely and securely placed.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to believe that the late political movements, with which the public
mind has been agitated, have subsided, and are entirely terminated by the last vote of the
House of Commons, and by the determination evinced to support the Administration.[22]

This finishes for the present a business which at one moment seemed likely to be troublesome,
and out of which there did not appear to present itself any hope or practicable escape.

Lord Melbourne will not make any observation upon what is known and understood to have passed,
further than to say that, as far as he is acquainted with the history of public affairs in
this country, it is an entire novelty, quite new and unprecedented.[23] Many a Minister has
said to the Crown, "My advice must be taken, and my measures must be adopted," but no Minister
has ever yet held this language or advanced this pretension to either House of Parliament.
However, it seems to be successful at present, and success will justify much. Whether it will
tend to permanent strength or a steady conduct of public affairs, remains to be seen.

Lord Melbourne begs to be respectfully remembered to His Royal Highness.

    [Footnote 22: See ante, p. 16.]

    [Footnote 23: Lord Melbourne refers to the House rescinding
    its own vote.]

[Pageheading: LORD ELLENBOROUGH]

The Earl of Ellenborough to Queen Victoria.

22nd June 1844. By Lord Ellenborough's advice, letters were immediately despatched by express
to every important native Court to assure the native Princes that this change in the person
at the head of the Government would effect no change in its policy, and Lord Ellenborough himself
wrote in similar terms to the British Representatives at the several Courts.... Lord Ellenborough
has written a letter to the Earl of Ripon with reference to the reasons alleged by the Court
of Directors for his removal from office, to which letter he most humbly solicits your Majesty's
favourable and attentive consideration. It treats of matters deeply affecting the good government
of India.

Amidst all the difficulties with which he has had to contend in India, aggravated as they have
been by the constant hostility of the Court of Directors, Lord Ellenborough has ever been sustained
by the knowledge that he was serving a most gracious Mistress, who would place the most favourable
construction upon his conduct, and he now humbly tenders to your Majesty the expression of
his gratitude, not only for those marks of Royal favour with which it has been intimated to
him that it is your Majesty's intention to reward his services, but yet more for that constant
support which has animated all his exertions, and has mainly enabled him to place India in
the hands of his successor in a state of universal peace, the result of two years of victories,
and in a condition of prosperity heretofore unknown.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND, FRANCE, AND RUSSIA]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 28th June 1844.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--I have again to offer my warmest and best thanks for a very long and
kind letter. I am truly and sincerely happy that a Ministerial crisis has been spared you;
it is in all constitutional concerns an awful business; but in such a colossal machinery as
the British Empire, it shakes the whole globe. For your sake, for the good of England, and
for the quiet of the whole earth, we must most devoutly pray that Sir Robert may remain for
many, many years your trusty and faithful Minister. Parliaments and Chambers are extremely
fond of governing, particularly as long as it does not bore themselves. We have had an instance
of it recently. I was anxious to keep the Chamber longer, as there are still many important
things which it ought to have finished; but they were hot, they got tired, voted twelve projets
de loi in one day, and disappeared afterwards, leaving one the trouble of managing the affairs
of the State as best one may....

As a general political event, the Emperor's visit in England can only be useful; it is probable
that he would not have made the visit if another had not been talked of. His policy is naturally
to separate as much as possible the two great Western Powers; he is too weak to resist single-handed
their dictates in the Oriental question; but if they act not in concert, it is evident that
he is the master; in all this he acts wisely and in conformity with the great interests of
his Empire. England has greater interests at stake at the mercy of Russia than at that of France.
With France the questions are sometimes questions of jealousy, but, on the other hand, a tolerable
understanding keeps France quiet and secures the peace of Europe, much more in the sense of
the European policy of England than of that of France. The only consolation the French can
find in it is that they are aware that together with England they have a great position, but
they always lament that they can get nothing by it. A bad understanding with France opens not
only the door to a European war, but also to revolution; and that is perhaps the most serious
and most awfully dangerous part of the business. England wants nothing from the Emperor than
that he should leave the status quo of Europe and great part of Asia alone. At Paris they are
not so much moved at the Emperor's visit as perhaps they ought to be, but they have put the
flattering notion into their heads that he had made fiasco, which is not true; as, in fact,
he has so far been rather successful, and has convinced people in England that he is a mild
and good-natured man, himself and his Empire, without any ambition. Now it is high time I should
finish my immense scrawl, for which I claim your forgiveness, remaining ever your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: TAHITI]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 27th August 1844.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your kind long letter, which I received yesterday, dated
23rd. I can report very well of ourselves. We are all well. The dear day of yesterday[24] we
spent very quietly and happily and full of gratitude to Providence for so many blessings. I
can only pray for the continuance of our present happiness.

The impending political cloud, I hope and trust, looks less black and lowering. But I think
it very unwise in Guizot not to have at once disavowed D'Aubigny for what you yourself call
an "outrage,"[25] instead of letting it drag on for four weeks and letting our people get excited.
The Tangiers Affair[26] is unfortunate, and I hope that in future poor Joinville will not be
exposed to such disagreeable affairs. What can be done will be, to get him justified in the
eyes of the public here, but I fear that at first they will not be very charitable. Those letters
in the Times are outrageous, and all that abuse very bad taste.[27] There is to be an investigation
about the three officers, whose conduct is unworthy of Englishmen. Now, dearest Uncle, believe
me always, your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 24: The Prince Albert's birthday. Prince Alfred was
    born on 6th August of this year.]

    [Footnote 25: The assumption of French sovereignty over
    Tahiti.]

    [Footnote 26: Hostilities had commenced between France and
    Morocco, and Tangiers was bombarded.]

    [Footnote 27: A series of letters had appeared in the Times,
    written by British naval officers who had witnessed the
    bombardment of Tangiers, and accused the French Admiral and
    Navy of being deficient in courage. The Times was much
    criticised for its publication of these letters.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND FRANCE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BLAIR ATHOL, 15th September 1844.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received your kind letter of the 6th the day we arrived here, and thank
you very much for it. As I have written an account of our journey to Louise, I will not repeat
it here.

The good ending of our difficulties with France is an immense blessing, but it is really and
truly necessary that you and those at Paris should know that the danger was imminent, and that
poor Aberdeen stood almost alone in trying to keep matters peaceable. We must try and prevent
these difficulties for the future. I must, however, clear Jarnac[28] of all blame, for Aberdeen
does nothing but praise him....

In Greece affairs look very black, and God knows how it all will end.

    [Footnote 28: Chargé d'Affaires in the absence of the French
    Ambassador.]

[Pageheading: VISIT OF KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 5th October 1844.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--... I have not much to say about my father's lodging habits and
likings.[29] My father is one of the beings most easy to please, satisfy, and to accommodate.
His eventful life has used him to everything, and makes any kind of arrangements acceptable
to him; there is only one thing which he cannot easily do, it is to be ready very early. He
means notwithstanding to try to come to your breakfast, but you must insist upon his not doing
it. It would disturb him in all his habits, and be bad for him, as he would certainly eat,
a thing he is not used to do in the morning. He generally takes hardly what may be called a
breakfast, and eats only twice in the day. It would be also much better for him if he only
appeared to luncheon and dinner, and if you kindly dispensed him altogether of the breakfast.
You must not tell him that I wrote you this, but you must manage it with Montpensier, and kindly
order for him a bowl of chicken broth. It is the only thing he takes generally in the morning,
and between his meals. I have also no observation to make, but I have told Montpensier to speak
openly to Albert whenever he thought something ought to be done for my father, or might hurt
and inconvenience him, and you may consult him when you are in doubt. He is entrusted with
all the recommendations of my mother, for my father is naturally so imprudent and so little
accustomed to caution and care, that he must in some measure be watched to prevent his catching
cold or doing what may be injurious to him. About his rooms, a hard bed and a large table for
his papers are the only things he requires. He generally sleeps on a horse-hair mattress with
a plank of wood under it: but any kind of bed will do, if it is not too soft. His liking will
be to be entirely at your commands and to do all you like. You know he can take a great deal
of exercise, and everything will interest and delight him, to see, as to do: this is not a
compliment, but a mere fact. His only wish is, that you should not go out of your way for him,
and change your habits on his account. Lord Aberdeen will be, of course, at Windsor, and I
suppose you will ask, as you told me, the Royal Family. My father hopes to see also Sir Robert
Peel, Lord Stanley, and your other Ministers. You will probably ask most of them during his
stay. He wishes very much to see again those he already knows, and to make the acquaintance
of those he does not know yet. In writing all this I think I dream, I cannot believe yet that
in a few days my dear father will have, God willing, the unspeakable happiness to see you again
and at Windsor, a thing he had so much wished for and which for a long time seemed so improbable.
You have no notion of the satisfaction it gives him, and how delighted he will be to see you
again, and to be once more in England. God grant he may have a good passage, and arrive to
you safely and well. Unberufen, as you will soon, I trust, be able to see, he is, notwithstanding
the usual talk of the papers, perfectly well.... Yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

