Then Rollo's father opened the book which he had sent home on a truck and talked to the little
boy about it. It was Bancroft's History of the United States, half complete in twenty-three
volumes. Rollo's father explained to Rollo and Mary his system of education, with special reference
to Rollo's learning to read. His plan was that Mary should teach Rollo fifteen hours a day
for ten years, and by that time Rollo would be half through the beginning of the first volume,
and would like it very much indeed.

Rollo was delighted at the prospect. He cried aloud:

"Oh, papa! thank you very much. When I read this book clear through, all the way to the end
of the last volume, may I have another little book to read?"

"No," replied his father, "that may not be; because you will never get to the last volume of
this one. For as fast as you read one volume, the author of this history, or his heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, will write another as an appendix. So even though you should live
to be a very old man, like the boy preacher, this history will always be twenty-three volumes
ahead of you. Now, Mary and Rollo, this will be a hard task (pronounced tawsk) for both of
you, and Mary must remember that Rollo is a very little boy, and must be very patient and gentle."

The next morning after the one preceding it, Mary began the first lesson. In the beginning
she was so gentle and patient that her mother went away and cried, because she feared her dear
little daughter was becoming too good for this sinful world, and might soon spread her wings
and fly away and be an angel.

But in the space of a short time, the novelty of the expedition wore off, and Mary resumed
running her temper--which was of the old-fashioned, low-pressure kind, just forward of the
fire-box--on its old schedule. When she pointed to "A" for the seventh time, and Rollo said
"W," she tore the page out by the roots, hit her little brother such a whack over the head
with the big book that it set his birthday back six weeks, slapped him twice, and was just
going to bite him, when her mother came in. Mary told her that Rollo had fallen down stairs
and torn his book and raised that dreadful lump on his head. This time Mary's mother restrained
her emotion, and Mary cried. But it was not because she feared her mother was pining away.
Oh, no; it was her mother's rugged health and virile strength that grieved Mary, as long as
the seance lasted, which was during the entire performance.

That evening Rollo's father taught Rollo his lesson and made Mary sit by and observe his methods,
because, he said, that would be normal instruction for her. He said:

"Mary, you must learn to control your temper and curb your impatience if you want to wear low-neck
dresses, and teach school. You must be sweet and patient, or you will never succeed as a teacher.
Now, Rollo, what is this letter?"

"I dunno," said Rollo, resolutely.

"That is A," said his father, sweetly.

"Huh," replied Rollo, "I knowed that."

"Then why did you not say so?" replied his father, so sweetly that Jonas, the hired boy, sitting
in the corner, licked his chops.

Rollo's father went on with the lesson:

"What is this, Rollo?"

"I dunno," said Rollo, hesitatingly.

"Sure?" asked his father. "You do not know what it is?"

"Nuck," said Rollo.

"It is A," said his father.

"A what?" asked Rollo.

"A nothing," replied his father, "it is just A. Now, what is it?"

"Just A," said Rollo.

"Do not be flip, my son," said Mr. Holliday, "but attend to your lesson. What letter is this?"

"I dunno," said Rollo.

"Don't fib to me," said his father, gently, "you said a minute ago that you knew. That is N."

"Yes, sir," replied Rollo, meekly. Rollo, although he was a little boy, was no slouch, if he
did wear bibs; he knew where he lived without looking at the door-plate. When it came time
to be meek, there was no boy this side of the planet Mars who could be meeker, on shorter notice.
So he said, "Yes, sir," with that subdued and well pleased alacrity of a boy who has just been
asked to guess the answer to the conundrum, "Will you have another piece of pie?"

"Well," said his father, rather suddenly, "what is it?"

"M," said Rollo, confidently.

"N!" yelled his father, in three-line Gothic.

"N," echoed Rollo, in lower case nonpareil.

"B-a-n," said his father, "what does that spell?"

"Cat?" suggested Rollo, a trifle uncertainly.

"Cat?" snapped his father, with a sarcastic inflection, "b-a-n, cat! Where were you raised?
Ban! B-a-n--Ban! Say it! Say it, or I'll get at you with a skate-strap!"

"B-a-m, band," said Rollo, who was beginning to wish that he had a rain-check and could come
back and see the remaining innings some other day.

"Ba-a-a-an!" shouted his father, "B-a-n, Ban, Ban, Ban! Now say Ban!"

"Ban," said Rollo, with a little gasp.

"That's right," his father said, in an encouraging tone; "you will learn to read one of these
years if you give your mind to it. All he needs, you see, Mary, is a teacher who doesn't lose
patience with him the first time he makes a mistake. Now, Rollo, how do you spell, B-a-n--Ban?"

Rollo started out timidly on c-a--then changed to d-o,--and finally compromised on h-e-n.

Mr. Holiday made a pass at him with Volume I, but Rollo saw it coming and got out of the way.

"B-a-n!" his father shouted, "B-a-n, Ban! Ban! Ban! Ban! Ban! Now go on, if you think you know
how to spell that! What comes next? Oh, you're enough to tire the patience of Job! I've a good
mind to make you learn by the Pollard system, and begin where you leave off! Go ahead, why
don't you? Whatta you waiting for? Read on! What comes next? Why, croft, of course; anybody
ought to know that--c-r-o-f-t, croft, Bancroft! What does that apostrophe mean? I mean, what
does that punctuation mark between t and s stand for? You don't know? Take that, then! (whack).
What comes after Bancroft? Spell it! Spell it, I tell you, and don't be all night about it!
Can't, eh? Well, read it then; if you can't spell it, read it. H-i-s-t-o-r-y-ry, history; Bancroft's
History of the United States! Now what does that spell? I mean, spell that! Spell it! Oh, go
away! Go to bed! Stupid, stupid child," he added as the little boy went weeping out of the
room, "he'll never learn anything so long as he lives. I declare he has tired me all out, and
I used to teach school in Trivoli township, too. Taught one whole winter in district number
three when Nick Worthington was county superintendent, and had my salary--look here, Mary,
what do you find in that English grammar to giggle about? You go to bed, too, and listen to
me--if Rollo can't read that whole book clear through without making a mistake to-morrow night,
you'll wish you had been born without a back, that's all."

The following morning, when Rollo's father drove away to business, he paused a moment as Rollo
stood at the gate for a final good-by kiss--for Rollo's daily good-byes began at the door and
lasted as long as his father was in sight--Mr. Holliday said:

"Some day, Rollo, you will thank me for teaching you to read."

"Yes, sir," replied Rollo, respectfully, and then added, "but not this day."

Rollo's head, though it had here and there transient bumps consequent upon foot-ball practice,
was not naturally or permanently hilly. On the contrary, it was quite level.

     SPELL AND DEFINE:

     Tact
     Exasperation
     Lamb
     Imperturbability
     Red-hot
     Philosopher
     Ebullition
     Knout
     Terrier

     Which end of a rattan hurts the more?--Why does reading make a full
     man?--Is an occasional whipping good for a boy?--At precisely what
     age does corporal punishment cease to be effective?--And
     why?--State, in exact terms, how much better are grown up people
     without the rod, than little people with it.--And why?--When would
     a series of good sound whippings have been of the greatest benefit
     to Solomon, when he was a godly young man, or an idolatrous old
     one?--In order to reform this world thoroughly, then, whom should
     we thrash, the children or the grown-up people?--And why?--If,
     then, the whipping post should be abolished in Delaware, why should
     it be retained in the nursery and the school room?--Write on the
     board, in large letters, the following sentence:

     If a boy ten years old should
     be whipped for breaking a window,
     what should be done to a man
     thirty-five years old for breaking
     the third commandment?

MR. STIVER'S HORSE

BY JAMES MONTGOMERY BAILEY

The other morning at breakfast Mrs. Perkins observed that Mr. Stiver, in whose house we live,
had been called away, and wanted to know if I would see to his horse through the day.

I knew that Mr. Stiver owned a horse, because I occasionally saw him drive out of the yard,
and I saw the stable every day,--but what kind of a horse I didn't know. I never went into
the stable, for two reasons: in the first place, I had no desire to; and, secondly, I didn't
know as the horse cared particularly for company.

I never took care of a horse in my life; and, had I been of a less hopeful nature, the charge
Mr. Stiver had left with me might have had a very depressing effect; but I told Mrs. Perkins
I would do it.

"You know how to take care of a horse, don't you?" said she.

I gave her a reassuring wink. In fact, I knew so little about it that I didn't think it safe
to converse more fluently than by winks.

After breakfast I seized a toothpick and walked out towards the stable. There was nothing particular
to do, as Stiver had given him his breakfast, and I found him eating it; so I looked around.
The horse looked around, too, and stared pretty hard at me. There was but little said on either
side. I hunted up the location of the feed, and then sat down on a peck measure and fell to
studying the beast. There is a wide difference in horses. Some of them will kick you over and
never look around to see what becomes of you. I don't like a disposition like that, and I wondered
if Stiver's horse was one of them.

When I came home at noon I went straight to the stable. The animal was there all right. Stiver
hadn't told me what to give him for dinner, and I had not given the subject any thought; but
I went to the oat-box and filled the peck measure and sallied boldly up to the manger.

When he saw the oats he almost smiled; this pleased and amused him. I emptied them into the
trough, and left him above me to admire the way I parted my hair behind. I just got my head
up in time to save the whole of it. He had his ears back, his mouth open, and looked as if
he were on the point of committing murder. I went out and filled the measure again, and climbed
up the side of the stall and emptied it on top of him. He brought his head up so suddenly at
this that I immediately got down, letting go of everything to do it. I struck on the sharp
edge of a barrel, rolled over a couple of times, then disappeared under a hay-cutter. The peck
measure went down on the other side, and got mysteriously tangled up in that animal's heels,
and he went to work at it, and then ensued the most dreadful noise I ever heard in all my life,
and I have been married eighteen years.

It did seem as if I never would get out from under that hay-cutter; and all the while I was
struggling and wrenching myself and the cutter apart, that awful beast was kicking around in
the stall, and making the most appalling sound imaginable.

When I got out I found Mrs. Perkins at the door. She had heard the racket, and had sped out
to the stable, her only thought being of me and three stove-lids which she had under her arm,
and one of which she was about to fire at the beast.

This made me mad.

"Go away, you unfortunate idiot!" I shouted: "do you want to knock my brains out?" For I remembered
seeing Mrs. Perkins sling a missile once before, and that I nearly lost an eye by the operation,
although standing on the other side of the house at the time.

She retired at once. And at the same time the animal quieted down, but there was nothing left
of that peck measure, not even the maker's name.

I followed Mrs. Perkins into the house, and had her do me up, and then I sat down in a chair
and fell into a profound strain of meditation. After a while I felt better, and went out to
the stable again. The horse was leaning against the stable stall, with eyes half closed, and
appeared to be very much engrossed in thought.

"Step off to the left," I said, rubbing his back.

He didn't step. I got the pitchfork and punched him in the leg with the handle. He immediately
raised up both hind legs at once, and that fork flew out of my hands, and went rattling up
against the timbers above, and came down again in an instant, the end of the handle rapping
me with such force on the top of the head that I sat right down on the floor under the impression
that I was standing in front of a drug-store in the evening. I went back to the house and got
some more stuff on me. But I couldn't keep away from that stable. I went out there again. The
thought struck me that what the horse wanted was exercise. If that thought had been an empty
glycerin-can, it would have saved a windfall of luck for me.

But exercise would tone him down, and exercise him I should. I laughed to myself to think how
I would trounce him around the yard. I didn't laugh again that afternoon. I got him unhitched,
and then wondered how I was to get him out of the stall without carrying him out. I pushed,
but he wouldn't budge. I stood looking at him in the face, thinking of something to say, when
he suddenly solved the difficulty by veering about and plunging for the door. I followed, as
a matter of course, because I had a tight hold on the rope, and hit about every partition-stud
worth speaking of on that side of the barn. Mrs. Perkins was at the window and saw us come
out of the door. She subsequently remarked that we came out skipping like two innocent children.
The skipping was entirely unintentional on my part. I felt as if I stood on the verge of eternity.
My legs may have skipped, but my mind was filled with awe.

I took the animal out to exercise him. He exercised me before I got through with it. He went
around a few times in a circle; then he stopped suddenly, spread out his forelegs, and looked
at me. Then he leaned forward a little, and hoisted both hind legs, and threw about two coal-hods
of mud over a line full of clothes Mrs. Perkins had just hung out.

That excellent lady had taken a position at the window, and, whenever the evolutions of the
awful beast permitted, I caught a glance of her features. She appeared to be very much interested
in the proceedings; but the instant that the mud flew, she disappeared from the window, and
a moment later she appeared on the stoop with a long poker in her hand, and fire enough in
her eye to heat it red-hot.

Just then Stiver's horse stood up on his hind legs and tried to hug me with the others. This
scared me. A horse never shows his strength to such advantage as when he is coming down on
you like a frantic pile-driver. I instantly dodged, and the cold sweat fairly boiled out of me.

It suddenly came over me that I had once figured in a similar position years ago. My grandfather
owned a little white horse that would get up from a meal at Delmonico's to kick the President
of the United States. He sent me to the lot one day, and unhappily suggested that I often went
after that horse and suffered all kinds of defeat in getting him out of the pasture, but I
had never tried to ride him. Heaven knows I never thought of it. I had my usual trouble with
him that day. He tried to jump over me, and push me down in a mud-hole, and finally got up
on his hind legs and came waltzing after me with facilities enough to convert me into hash,
but I turned and just made for that fence with all the agony a prospect of instant death could
crowd into me. If our candidate for the Presidency had run one-half as well, there would be
seventy-five postmasters in Danbury to-day, instead of one.

I got him out finally, and then he was quiet enough, and I took him up alongside the fence
and got on him. He stopped an instant, one brief instant, and then tore off down the road at
a frightful speed. I lay down on him and clasped my hands tightly around his neck, and thought
of my home. When we got to the stable I was confident he would stop, but he didn't. He drove
straight at the door. It was a low door, just high enough to permit him to go in at lightning
speed, but there was no room for me. I saw if I struck that stable the struggle would be a
very brief one. I thought this all over in an instant, and then, spreading put my arms and
legs, emitted a scream, and the next moment I was bounding about in the filth of that stable-yard.
All this passed through my mind as Stiver's horse went up into the air. It frightened Mrs.
Perkins dreadfully.

"Why, you old fool!" she said; "why don't you get rid of him?"

"How can I?" said I, in desperation.

"Why, there are a thousand ways," said she.

This is just like a woman. How differently a statesman would have answered!

But I could think of only two ways to dispose of the beast. I could either swallow him where
he stood and then sit down on him, or I could crawl inside of him and kick him to death.

But I was saved either of these expedients by his coming towards me so abruptly that I dropped
the rope in terror, and then he turned about, and, kicking me full of mud, shot for the gate,
ripping the clothes-line in two, and went on down the street at a horrible gallop, with two
of Mrs. Perkins' garments, which he hastily snatched from the line, floating over his neck
in a very picturesque manner.

So I was afterwards told. I was too full of mud myself to see the way into the house.

Stiver got his horse all right, and stays at home to care for him. Mrs. Perkins has gone to
her mother's to recuperate, and I am healing as fast as possible.

THE CRIMSON CORD[1]

BY ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

I had not seen Perkins for six months or so and things were dull. I was beginning to tire of
sitting indolently in my office with nothing to do but clip coupons from my bonds. Money is
good enough, in its way, but it is not interesting unless it is doing something lively--doubling
itself or getting lost. What I wanted was excitement--an adventure--and I knew that if I could
find Perkins I could have both. A scheme is a business adventure, and Perkins was the greatest
schemer in or out of Chicago.

Just then Perkins walked into my office.

"Perkins," I said, as soon as he had arranged his feet comfortably on my desk, "I'm tired.
I'm restless. I have been wishing for you for a month. I want to go into a big scheme and make
a lot of new, up-to-date cash. I'm sick of this tame, old cash that I have. It isn't interesting.
No cash is interesting except the coming cash."

"I'm with you," said Perkins, "what is your scheme?"

"I have none," I said sadly, "that is just my trouble. I have sat here for days trying to think
of a good practical scheme, but I can't. I don't believe there is an unworked scheme in the
whole wide, wide world."

Perkins waved his hand.

"My boy," he exclaimed, "there are millions! You've thousands of 'em right here in your office!
You're falling over them, sitting on them, walking on them! Schemes? Everything is a scheme.
Everything has money in it!"

I shrugged my shoulders.

"Yes," I said, "for you. But you are a genius."

"Genius, yes," Perkins said smiling cheerfully, "else why Perkins the Great? Why Perkins the
originator? Why the Great and Only Perkins of Portland?"

"All right," I said, "what I want is for your genius to get busy. I'll give you a week to work
up a good scheme."

Perkins pushed back his hat and brought his feet to the floor with a smack.

"Why the delay?" he queried, "time is money. Hand me something from your desk."

I looked in my pigeonholes and pulled from one a small ball of string. Perkins took it in his
hand and looked at it with great admiration.

"What is it?" he asked seriously.

"That," I said humoring him, for I knew something great would be evolved from his wonderful
brain, "is a ball of red twine I bought at the ten-cent store. I bought it last Saturday. It
was sold to me by a freckled young lady in a white shirtwaist. I paid--"

"Stop!" Perkins cried, "what is it?"

I looked at the ball of twine curiously. I tried to see something remarkable in it. I couldn't.
It remained a simple ball of red twine and I told Perkins so.

"The difference," declared Perkins, "between mediocrity and genius! Mediocrity always sees
red twine; genius sees a ball of Crimson Cord!"

He leaned back in his chair and looked at me triumphantly. He folded his arms as if he had
settled the matter. His attitude seemed to say that he had made a fortune for us. Suddenly
he reached forward, and grasping my scissors, began snipping off small lengths of the twine.

"The Crimson Cord!" he ejaculated. "What does it suggest?"

I told him that it suggested a parcel from the druggist's. I had often seen just such twine
about a druggist's parcel.

Perkins sniffed disdainfully.

"Druggists?" he exclaimed with disgust. "Mystery! Blood! 'The Crimson Cord.' Daggers! Murder!
Strangling! Clues! 'The Crimson Cord'--"

He motioned wildly with his hands as if the possibilities of the phrase were quite beyond his
power of expression.

"It sounds like a book," I suggested.

"Great!" cried Perkins. "A novel! The novel! Think of the words 'A Crimson Cord' in blood-red
letters six feet high on a white ground!" He pulled his hat over his eyes and spread out his
hands, and I think he shuddered.

"Think of 'A Crimson Cord,'" he muttered, "in blood-red letters on a ground of dead, sepulchral
black, with a crimson cord writhing through them like a serpent."

He sat up suddenly and threw one hand in the air.

"Think," he cried, "of the words in black on white with a crimson cord drawn taut across the
whole ad!"

He beamed upon me.

"The cover of the book," he said quite calmly, "will be white--virgin, spotless white--with
black lettering, and the cord in crimson. With each copy we will give a crimson silk cord for
a book-mark. Each copy will be done up in a white box and tied with crimson cord."

He closed his eyes and tilted his head upward.

"A thick book," he said, "with deckel edges and pictures by Christy. No, pictures by Pyle.
Deep, mysterious pictures! Shadows and gloom! And wide, wide margins. And a gloomy foreword.
One fifty per copy, at all booksellers."

Perkins opened his eyes and set his hat straight with a quick motion of his hand. He arose
and pulled on his gloves.

"Where are you going?" I asked.

"Contracts!" he said. "Contracts for advertising! We must boom 'The Crimson Cord.' We must
boom her big!"

He went out and closed the door. Presently, when I supposed him well on the way down town,
he opened the door and inserted his head.

"Gilt tops," he announced. "One million copies the first impression!"

And then he was gone.

II

A week later Chicago and the greater part of the United States was placarded with "The Crimson
Cord." Perkins did his work thoroughly and well, and great was the interest in the mysterious
title. It was an old dodge, but a good one. Nothing appeared on the advertisements but the
mere title. No word as to what "The Crimson Cord" was. Perkins merely announced the words and
left them to rankle in the reader's mind, and as a natural consequence each new advertisement
served to excite new interest.

When we made our contracts for magazine advertising--and we took a full page in every worthy
magazine--the publishers were at a loss to classify the advertisement, and it sometimes appeared
among the breakfast foods, and sometimes sandwiched in between the automobiles and the hot
water heaters. Only one publication placed it among the books.

But it was all good advertising, and Perkins was a busy man. He racked his inventive brain
for new methods of placing the title before the public. In fact so busy was he at his labor
of introducing the title that he quite forgot the book itself.

One day he came to the office with a small, rectangular package. He unwrapped it in his customary
enthusiastic manner, and set on my desk a cigar box bound in the style he had selected for
the binding of "The Crimson Cord." It was then I spoke of the advisability of having something
to the book besides the cover and a boom.

"Perkins," I said, "don't you think it is about time we got hold of the novel--the reading,
the words?"

For a moment he seemed stunned. It was clear that he had quite forgotten that book-buyers like
to have a little reading matter in their books. But he was only dismayed for a moment.

"Tut!" he cried presently. "All in good time! The novel is easy. Anything will do. I'm no literary
man. I don't read a book in a year. You get the novel."

"But I don't read a book in five years!" I exclaimed. "I don't know anything about books. I
don't know where to get a novel."

"Advertise!" he exclaimed. "Advertise! You can get anything, from an apron to an ancestor,
if you advertise for it. Offer a prize--offer a thousand dollars for the best novel. There
must be thousands of novels not in use."

Perkins was right. I advertised as he suggested and learned that there were thousands of novels
not in use. They came to us by basketfuls and cartloads. We had novels of all kinds--historical
and hysterical, humorous and numerous, but particularly numerous. You would be surprised to
learn how many ready-made novels can be had on short notice. It beats quick lunch. And most
of them are equally indigestible. I read one or two but I was no judge of novels. Perkins suggested
that we draw lots to see which we should use.

It really made little difference what the story was about. "The Crimson Cord" fits almost any
kind of a book. It is a nice, non-committal sort of title, and might mean the guilt that bound
two sinners, or the tie of affection that binds lovers, or a blood relationship, or it might
be a mystification title with nothing in the book about it.

But the choice settled itself. One morning a manuscript arrived that was tied with a piece
of red twine, and we chose that one for good luck because of the twine. Perkins said that was
a sufficient excuse for the title, too. We would publish the book anonymously, and let it be
known that the only clue to the writer was the crimson cord with which the manuscript was tied
when we received it. It would be a first-class advertisement.

Perkins, however, was not much interested in the story, and he left me to settle the details.
I wrote to the author asking him to call, and he turned out to be a young woman.

