One quart of white stock, one half teacupful of rice, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon cream,
salt and pepper. In preparing this soup boil first the rice in the stock for twenty minutes.
Then pass the whole through a wire sieve, rubbing through such of the rice as may stick with
a spoon, then stir it thoroughly to beat out such lumps as the rice may have formed and return
all to the saucepan. The yolk of egg, cream, pepper and salt, must now be well beaten together
and added to the stock and rice, the whole stirred over the fire for two minutes, care being
taken to prevent boiling after the eggs are put in, or they will curdle. This soup should be
served very hot and is excellent.

TURTLE BEAN SOUP.

MISS FRASER.

One pint of black beans, boil in two quarts of water, one onion, two carrots, small teaspoon
of allspice, five or six cloves, a small bit of bacon or ham. A good bone of roast beef or
mutton, let all boil till quite tender perhaps two hours. Then turn into a colander, take out
the bone and rub all the rest with a wooden spoon through the colander, if this is too thick
add some stock or water. Some meat balls can be added.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Choose a good sized fresh codfish, prepare it for cooking without beheading it, fill the inside
with a dressing of bread crumbs, a finely chopped onion, a little chopped suet, pepper and
salt and moisten all with an egg. Sew up the fish and bake, basting with butter or dripping.
If butter, beware of too much salt.

BAKED CODFISH.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

Pick very fine one cup of codfish; soak several hours in cold water; have ready two cups of
mashed potatoes and mix well with one egg, a cup of milk, one half cup of butter, little salt
and pepper; put this in a baking dish and cover the top with bread crumbs; moisten with milk;
bake one-half hour.

CURRIED FISH.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound cooked white fish, one apple, two ounces of butter, one onion, one pint of fish stock,
one tablespoon curry-powder, one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar, salt
and pepper, six ounces of rice. Slice the apple and onion, and brown them in a pan with a little
butter, stir in them the flour and curry powder, add the stock by degrees; skim when boiling
and simmer slowly one half hour, stir in them the lemon juice, also a very small teaspoon sugar;
strain and return to the saucepan, cut up the fish into neat pieces, and put them into the
saucepan also, when quite hot dish with a border of rice.

FISH CREAM.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

One can of salmon, one quart of milk, one cup of flour, one cup of butter, three eggs, one
cupful of bread crumbs, one half cupful grated cheese, one onion, one bunch of parsley, two
bay leaves. Take the canned salmon, or boil a fish, and when cool take out the bones and break
the fish in small pieces. Put on to boil one quart of milk, an onion, a bunch of parsley, and
two bay leaves; after boiling strain through a colander, then add a cup of flour mixed smooth
with cold milk and a cup of butter; beat up three eggs and pour into the mixture. Put in a
baking dish alternate layers of fish and cream until the dish is full, putting cream top and
bottom. Place on top one cup of bread crumbs and one half cup of grated cheese. Salt to taste,
and cayenne pepper. Bake twenty minutes.

FISH MOULD.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil a fresh haddock, remove the bones and pick it in pieces, soak some bread in milk; put
the fish, bread, a small piece of butter, one or two eggs, pepper and salt together in a bowl
and beat them well together. Put the mixture in a mould and steam, turn out, and garnish with
parsley. Tomato sauce is nice poured round the mould when turned out. The fish should be about
twice the quantity of the bread.

TOMATO SAUCE.

Six tomatoes, two ounces butter, one half ounce flour, one half pint stock, one teaspoon of
salt, one fourth teaspoon of pepper. Place the tomatoes in a pan and pour over them the stock,
add salt and pepper. Place the pan over the fire and cook all slowly for half an hour. Place
a wire sieve over a basin and rub the tomatoes and stock through the sieve. Melt the butter
in a saucepan, add the flour stir well together, pour over the tomatoes and stock and stir
all over the fire till boiling, when the sauce is ready for use. Tinned tomatoes do not take
so long to boil.

FISH SCALLOP.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

Remains of cold fish of any sort, one half pint of cream, one half tablespoonful anchovy sauce,
one half teaspoonful made mustard, one half teaspoonful walnut ketchup, pepper and salt, bread
crumbs. Then put in a deep dish, with bread and small bits of butter on top; put in the oven
till nearly browned. Serve hot.

FISH PIE.

MRS. ANDREW THOMSON.

Boil one haddock, take the best part of the fish, one pint of milk and a piece of butter as
large as an egg, half a cup of flour, two yolks of eggs, stir together, and then mix well with
the fish. Put in a pudding dish, and take a half cup of bread crumbs, half a cup of grated
cheese, put in the oven for ten minutes, salt and pepper to taste.

POTTED HERRINGS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Scale and clean fresh herrings, then taking the fish by the tail you can easily remove the
backbone drawing it towards the head. The smaller bones will melt in the vinegar; remove the
heads and roll each fish up, tail end inside, and wind a thread round each roll, lay them in
the vessel they are to remain in till used, a stone earthernware crock is best. Make scalding
hot with spices as much vinegar as will cover them, pour it over the fish and keep them hot
about the stove for about an hour, when they will be well cooked through; do not let them boil
or they will break. Keep in a cool place. Spices: whole white pepper, whole allspice, and a
blade of mace if it is liked.

LOBSTER CUTLETS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Mince the lobster fine, and season with pepper and salt, make good and thick with drawn butter.
Mix with the lobster enough to make it stick together. Shape with the hands into cutlets, roll
in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard.

The Sauce:--Make rather a thin custard, season with pepper, salt and a little nutmeg and chopped
parsley, place over the cutlets.

LOBSTER STEW.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Take a boiled lobster and split it open, cut the meat into small pieces and put into a saucepan
with one pint of milk; when boiling add two tablespoons of flour dissolved in a little water,
and boil ten minutes. Season with salt, pepper and a small piece of butter. Just before serving
pour in a wineglassful of sherry. Canned lobster may be used with very good results.

OYSTER PIE.--FAMOUS.

One cup melted butter is put in a lined saucepan, and three tablespoons of flour which are
rubbed well into the butter, one half teaspoon of mace, a little pepper and salt. The juice
of the oysters is put into this to make it thin, and little by little one quart of boiling
milk to one quart of oysters. Last the oysters are put in very carefully and given a very short
boil. The whole is pretty thick and is then put into a pie dish with pie crust over; one cup
of cream is put in just before the oysters are emptied into the pie dish.

OYSTER PIE OR PATTIES.

MISS M. A. RITCHIE.

Crust:--One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one half cup of water. Sauce:--One tablespoonful
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup of cream or milk, one pint of oysters.

ESCALOPED OYSTERS.

MADAME J. T.

Butter the dish; cover the bottom of the dish with bread crumbs, add a layer of oysters, season
with pepper and salt, then bread crumbs and oysters until you have three layers. Finish with
crumbs, cover the top with small pieces of butter, bake half an hour.

CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One quart of milk, two tablespoons flour three tablespoons butter, pepper and salt. Put milk
in double boiler, mix butter and flour thoroughly, adding a little cold milk before stirring
into the hot milk; cook: One pint of oysters, let simmer in their liquor for about five minutes,
then skim out, drop into the cream sauce. Prepare thin slices of crisp toast, lay on heated
platter; pour over creamed oysters, serve at once. Delicious.

OYSTER CROQUETTES.

MISS STEVENSON.

Twenty-five oysters, one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, three ounces butter, one and one
half ounces flour, one gill milk or cream, one teaspoon lemon juice, one egg, three tablespoons
bread crumbs, salt and pepper. Boil the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, cut them
in rough pieces, melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add cream by degrees, also
oyster liquor, boil two minutes, add then the parsley, pepper, and salt, put in the oysters
and allow the mixture to cool. Form it then into croquettes on a slightly floured board. Roll
in the beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat two minutes.

MOULDED SALMON.

MISS MARION STOWELL POPE.

One tin of salmon chopped, one cup fine bread crumbs, four eggs broken in four tablespoons
melted butter, one teaspoon chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Put into a plain buttered
mould and sprinkle with flour, cover and steam one hour.

Sauce for the above:--One teaspoon cornstarch, a little butter, one and one half cups of milk,
pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste. A little tomato ketchup or anchovy sauce added. When it comes
to the boil, add one well beaten egg; pour round the mould and serve hot.

CREAMED SALMON.

MISS H. BARCLAY.

One can salmon minced fine, draw off the liquor. For the dressing, boil one pint milk, two
tablespoons butter, salt and pepper to taste. Have ready one pint of bread crumbs, place a
layer in the bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, then a layer of dressing, and so on,
leaving crumbs for the last layer, and bake till brown.

MEATS.

MEATS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

To make beefsteak tender, rub a pinch of baking soda on each side of the steak about an hour
before cooking and roll it up on itself in the meantime. A very small pinch of brown sugar
used in the same way is good, but the soda is thought preferable.

MEAT BALLS.

MRS. WADDLE.

Mash finely some potatoes, pass through a sieve, stir in the yolks of two eggs, one ounce of
butter, pepper and salt. Mince finely some beef or tongue. Let them dry before the fire on
paper. Very good.

SPICED BEEF.

Rub well into a round weighing forty pounds, three ounces saltpetre, let stand six or eight
hours, pound three ounces allspice, one pound black pepper, two pounds salt, and seven ounces
brown sugar; rub the beef well with the salt and spices. Let it remain fourteen days turning
it every day and rub with the pickle, then wash off the spices and put in a deep pan, cut small
six pounds of suet, put some in the bottom of the pan, the greater part on the top, cover with
coarse paste and bake eight hours; when cold take off the paste pour off the gravy, it will
keep six months.

SPICED BEEF.

MISS J. E. FRASER.

Two pounds of raw steak from the round, free from bone, fat or sinew, chopped very fine, six
soda biscuits rolled fine, one cup of milk, two eggs beaten in one tablespoon salt, one dessertspoon
of pepper, and add a little spice if you like. Butter an earthenware jar as large round the
top as the bottom and press the mixture in very lightly. Cover with butter one half inch thick.
Cover the jar with a plate and bake in an oven for two hours. Serve whole or cut in slices.
Nicer cold.

BEEF À LA MODE.

MRS. I. T. SMYTHE.

One half pound of meat, cut up into four inch squares and two or three inches thick, add onion
chopped fine, one teaspoon salt, and one half teaspoon pepper, cover with boiling water and
place in jar and cook in oven for two hours.

BEEF OLIVES.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

Thin slices of steak cut into squares about the size of hand; make a dressing similar to chicken,
bake, then put on the steak and roll, put in the saucepan with some onion and butter in a little
water, let it simmer for an hour and a half to two hours.

COLD MEAT CUTLETS.

MRS. A. COOK.

Half pound cold meat or chicken, one ounce butter, one ounce of flour, one gill white stock,
one teaspoon chopped parsley, one half saltspoon grated nutmeg, small teaspoon of salt, saltspoon
of pepper, grated rind of half a small lemon. Pass chicken twice through the mincer, then melt
the butter, stir into it the flour, get it perfectly smooth and add stock, don't let it brown,
stir until it boils and boil two minutes, add the chicken, (when properly cooked will leave
the pan clearly) add pepper, salt, nutmeg, parsley and lemon, put it away to cool. In using
cold beef, a teaspoon anchovy essence or paste is an improvement, and to mutton a teaspoon
mushroom catsup. When the mixture is cold, place some flour on board to prevent sticking and
form into rolls with square edges, beat the egg, place breadcrumbs mixed with pepper and salt
on paper, put the rolls first in the egg, then in crumbs, have sufficient fat in pan and when
the white smoke rises, put the rolls in and fry three minutes, drain on paper. Brown sauce
may be served and mashed peas or potatoes placed in the centre.

CURED MUTTON HAMS.

MRS. W. COOK.

Quarter of a pound bay salt, ditto of common salt, one ounce saltpetre, four ounces brown sugar,
one ounce allspice, four ounces black pepper (whole), the allspice or one ounce of coriander
seed must be bruised not ground, one quart of water: boil all together a few minutes and rub
on hot. In three weeks the hams will be ready to hang if well rubbed with the pickle everyday.
Sufficient pickle for two.

BRAISED MUTTON.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

One boned shoulder of mutton, four ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of suet, rind of half
a lemon, bunch of mixed vegetables, one tablespoon chopped parsley, other herbs if liked, one
egg, a little milk, one teaspoon of salt, half teaspoon of pepper. Chop suet finely (or fat
from mutton will do) add breadcrumbs, parsley, grated lemon rind and salt, moisten with egg
and milk. Place mixture in mutton, roll up and tie securely. Slice vegetables and put them
with bones in saucepan also two cloves, a bay leaf and peppercorns, pour over them a pint of
stock or water, place mutton on top and boil slowly about one and one half hours according
to size of meat, then brush it over with glaze or sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt and
bake it half an hour. Place on a dish, pour fat from pan and stir in half ounce of flour (browned)
add stock in which meat was cooked, also one tablespoon mushroom catsup and one tablespoon
Worcester sauce, pepper and salt, boil two minutes and strain around meat. Vegetables in stock
can be cut to ornament the dish.

GENUINE IRISH STEW.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Take the feet and legs of a pig, cut off at the hams, two will be sufficient for a family of
eight. Singe off the hair and thoroughly cleanse them, removing the toes by scorching. Cut
the legs in pieces suitable for stewing, put down in cold water and cook slowly for three hours.
Pare and cut up nine or ten good sized potatoes and add to your stew with salt and pepper,
about one half an hour before dishing. After the potatoes have been put in, the greatest care
must be taken to prevent them from sticking to the pot and burning, therefore you must stir
frequently with a spoon. What remains from dinner pour into a mould and it will become a jelly,
which is nice eaten cold for breakfast.

TO STEW A FRESH TONGUE.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK.

Wash it very well and rub it well with common salt and a little saltpetre; let it lie two or
three days; then boil till the skin will peel off; put it into a saucepan with part of the
liquor it has boiled in and a pint of good stock, season with black and Jamaica pepper, two
or three pounded cloves. Add a glassful of white wine, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup and
one of lemon pickle, thicken with butter rolled in flour. Stew the tongue till quite soft in
this sauce; the wine can be added when dished or left out if preferred.

LAMBS' TONGUES STEWED.

MRS. ARCHIE COOK. Garnish with parsley.

ROAST FILLET OF VEAL.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take a good sized, white, fat leg of veal, weighing some ten or twelve pounds. Remove the meat
carefully from the bone and take out the bone. Then pin the meat securely into a nice round
with skewers; fill the cavity from which the bone was taken with the following dressing. Roast
in a slow oven, allowing one quarter of an hour for each pound, and be sure to keep it thoroughly
basted with plenty of beef dripping.

DRESSING.

Make ready one coffee cup of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one half teaspoonful
summer savory, pepper and salt to taste. Take a good sized onion, peel, slice, and fry it well
with a piece of butter the size of an egg; pour the liquor from this into your bread crumbs
and blend all thoroughly together. Be careful not to put the onion in, only the fried butter
and onion juice. When the meat is cooked, remove from pan and make a rich brown gravy to serve
with it. Garnish your dish with fried bacon and slices of lemon.

STUFFING FOR VEAL.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Chop half a pound of beef suet very fine, put in a basin, with eight ounces of bread crumbs,
four ounces of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of equal quantities of powdered thyme and marjoram,
the rind of a lemon grated, the juice of half a one; season with pepper and salt, and a quarter
of a nutmeg; mix the whole with two eggs; this will do also for turkey or baked fish.

YORKSHIRE PUDDING.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt and milk to make a batter the thickness
of cream. When the beef is roasted pour off the boiling dripping into another pan, turn in
the batter and bake to a good brown.

GAME.

MISS BEEMER.

Pluck and singe a duck, draw it without breaking the intestines, wipe it with a wet towel and
lay it in a baking pan; wipe a dozen small sour apples with a wet cloth, cut out the cores
without breaking the apples, and arrange them around the duck; put the pan into a hot oven
and quickly brown the duck, then moderate the heat of the oven and continue the cooking for
about twenty minutes, or until the apples are tender but not broken, baste both duck and apples
every five minutes until they are done, and then serve them on the same dish. It is a great
improvement some think, to parboil the duck for fifteen minutes with an onion in the water,
and the strong fishy flavor that is sometimes so disagreeable in wild ducks will have disappeared.
A carrot will answer the same purpose.

ROAST QUAIL WITH BREAD SAUCE.

Peel and slice an onion and put it over the fire in a pint of milk; pluck and singe half a
dozen quail, draw them without breaking the intestines, cut off the heads and feet, and wipe
them with a wet towel; rub them all over with butter; season them with pepper and salt, and
roast them before a very hot fire for fifteen minutes basting them three or four times with
butter. Have some slices of toast laid under them to catch the drippings. While the birds are
roasting make a bread sauce as follows; roll a pint bowlfull of dry bread, and sift the crumbs;
use the finest ones for the sauce, and the largest for the frying later; remove the onion from
the milk in which it has been boiling, stir into the milk the finest portion of the crumbs,
season it with a saltspoonful of white pepper and a grate of nutmeg, stir in a tablespoonful
of butter, and stir the sauce until it is smooth; then place the saucepan containing it in
a pan of boiling water to keep it hot; put two tablespoonfuls of butter over the fire in a
frying pan, and when it is smoking hot put into it the coarse half of the crumbs, dust them
with cayenne pepper, and stir them until they are light brown; then at once put them on a hot
dish; put the bread sauce into a gravy-boat ready to send it to the table. Arrange to have
the fried breadcrumbs, sauce and quail done at the same time; serve the birds on the toast
which has been laid under them; in serving the quail, lay each bird on a hot plate, pour over
it a large spoonful of the bread sauce and on that place a spoonful of the fried bread crumbs.

VENISON STEAK.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Take a piece of frozen venison, and put into water in which has been put two tablespoons of
vinegar. Just leave until the ice comes to the surface of the meat, take the meat out and remove
the ice with a knife; wipe dry and flour well, put a good piece of butter in the pan; let brown,
put the steak in salt, and pepper, fry on both sides, then add a cup of rich milk, push the
pan to the back of the stove and cover it and let it stew slowly for one and a half hours--If
the steak is very dry lard it with salt pork before frying.

STEWED PIGEONS.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

For two pair of pigeons stuff first with bread, summer savory, butter, pepper, salt. Put eight
or nine slices of fat pork, in an iron pot to fry, until the pork is well browned, then take
it out and put in the pigeons and let brown thoroughly, keep turning to prevent burning. Then
add one pint of stock, season if required, put back slices of pork and let stew for an hour
and a half (at least) quietly. If gravy is not thick enough, add a tablespoon of brown flour.
About quarter of an hour before done, put in a can of green peas--Then serve.

STEWED HARE.

Can be prepared in the same manner as the above for stewed pigeons, with the addition of spices:
cloves a few, and a little more of cinnamon.

BREAD SAUCE.

MRS. BENSON BENNETT.

One half pint boiled milk to one cup of fine bread crumbs, one small onion, two cloves, one
piece of mace, salt to taste, let simmer five minutes, add small piece of butter.

CRANBERRY JELLY.

Pare, quarter, and core twelve good sized tart apples, place in a porcelain kettle with two
quarts of cranberries, cover well with cold water and stew until soft, then strain through
a jelly bag, add to this juice two pounds of confectioner's sugar, and boil as you would any
other jelly, until it falls from the skimmer; when you dip it in skim off any froth that arises
while boiling, put in moulds and let it get firm before using.

PLAIN DRESSING FOR FOWLS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

One cup and a half of bread crumbs (not too stale), one heaped teaspoon each of parsley, thyme
and savory, one dessert spoonful butter, half teaspoon salt, quarter of a teaspoon pepper,
mix all together with a little milk.

PLAIN DRESSING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS.

One cup breadcrumbs or potatoes, one cup or more of stewed onions, one tablespoon sage, pepper,
salt and a little butter, mix with a little milk.

APPLES.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

When the barrel of apples you have bought, begins to make your mind uneasy, because they can
spoil faster than you can use them, a good plan is to peel, core and stir them with a very
little sugar and screw them down in your jam jars. They will keep for a couple of months and
will be handy to fill a tart or as apple sauce, etc.; they do not need to be cooked too much
and some of the firmer sorts may remain in quarters solid enough for a pie. Another plan is
to peel but not core the suspicious ones, then let them freeze solid, when frozen pack them
in a box and cover. Keep them where they will not thaw. When you wish for a dish of baked apples,
put them in your baking pan, scatter a little sugar over them and put them in a quick oven
without letting them thaw, when done, they should each be whole and a pretty brown color.

BEANS.

Beans are a nice winter vegetable, but cooked with pork as "baked beans," are too strong for
daily use, but are a desirable article of food cooked more plainly. Choose the small white
beans, put them in a saucepan with as much cold water, as will cover them well and a small
pinch of baking soda; when they have simmered a few minutes drain off the water and replace
it with hot water and a little salt; if possible let them cook without boiling hard; when tender
drain, and dish with a liberal piece of butter and a dust of pepper. They are also good thrown
when drained into the frying pan with some dripping, pepper and salt, and heated a few minutes
over the fire. The only attention they require in cooking is lest they melt into soup when
nearly cooked.

FRIED BEETS.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Boil until tender, slice and put in stewpan with a teaspoon of vinegar, half the juice of a
lemon, one half teaspoonful each sugar and salt, a grate of nutmeg and a dash of pepper. Add
two tablespoonfuls of stock, a teaspoon butter, and let simmer one half hour.

CREAMED CABBAGE.

MISS J. E. FRASER.

Cut a medium sized cabbage in quarters. Take out the stem, put into a kettle of boiling water,
cook for ten minutes, drain and cover with cold water. This will destroy the odor so unpleasant.
When cold, chop fine, season with salt and pepper. Make a sauce of two tablespoons of butter,
one tablespoon flour, mix smooth, add one pint of milk; cook in this sauce slowly for three
quarters of an hour.

STEWED CUCUMBERS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Peel a nice straight cucumber, cut in four lengthwise, scoop out all seeds, and cut it in pieces
about three inches long; throw these into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt. When
they bend under the touch, they are done, drain in a sieve, then put in a stewpan with a good
sized piece of butter, finely chopped parsley salt and pepper. Toss over the fire till thoroughly
heated through and serve in a hot dish.

OYSTER CABBAGE.

MRS. D. M. COOK.

Mince fine one half a cabbage, boil for ten minutes and strain off water. Then cover cabbage
with milk and let come to a boil, add rolled cracker crumbs, butter size of a walnut, salt
and pepper to taste.

CORN OMELET.

Boil one half dozen ears of corn, cut corn from the cob; beat four eggs separately, add to
the corn the beaten yolks, salt and pepper, put in the whites last, fry in a pan with plenty
of butter.

MACARONI AND CHEESE.

MISS H. BARCLAY.

Boil quarter of a pound of macaroni in water, for half an hour, cool and chop. Make a sauce
of one tablespoonful butter, one dessertspoon of flour, half pint milk, one teaspoonful of
mustard. Boil one minute; mix all together with three ounces of grated cheese. Put in a shallow
dish sprinkling top with cheese. Bake a golden brown and garnish with toast.

MACARONI.

MRS. THOM.

One half pound macaroni, one half pound cheese, one quarter pound of butter, pint of milk,
mustard and cayenne. Boil macaroni in salt and water until tender, drain and lay in dish. Put
pint of milk on fire, just before boiling, add one tablespoon flour, rubbed smooth in a little
cold milk, butter, nearly all the cheese grated, mustard and cayenne. Boil until thick as custard,
then pour over macaroni, sprinkle remainder of cheese on top with some small pieces of butter;
if used immediately bake twenty minutes, if allowed to get cold one half hour.

CREAM-BAKED ONIONS.

MRS. J. S. THOM.

