"Miss Fannie's folks, dey libed right nigh us on to 'j'ining place and dem was my ole man's
peoples. Yas sah, boss, dat ole man you see settin' right dar now in dat chere. She was Ella
Keith, dats zackly what her named when us married and she named fer Miss Fannie's ma. Dat she
was. Us neber did leave our folkses eben atter de War ober and de niggers git dey freedom,
yit an' still a heap of de niggers did leave dey mars' and a heap of dem didn' an' us stayed
on an farmed de lan' jus' like us been doin' 'cept dey gib us a contract for part de crop an'
sell us our grub 'gainst us part of de crop and take dey money outen us part of de cotton in
de fall just like de bizness is done yit and I reckon dat was de startin' of de sharecrop dat
is still goin' on.

"Soon atter Mars Luch good and grown an' him an' Miss Fannie done married, ole mars and ole
miss, dey bofe died and Mars Luch say he gwine sell out an' lebe 'cause de lan' gittin' so
poor and wore out and it takin' three an' more acres to make a bale and he tell us all dat
when we wind up de crop dat fall and say, 'You boys mebbe can stay on wid whoever I sell out
to er if not den you can fin' you homes wid some one close if you wants to do dat.' And den
he says dat he gwine fin' him some good lan' mebbe in Arkansas down de riber from Memfis. Mighty
nigh all de ole famblys lef' de place when Mars Luch sole it out.

"My pappy and my mammy, dey went to Memfis and me wid 'em. I was growed by den and was fixin'
to marry Ella just es soon es I could fin' a good home. I was a country nigger en liked de
farm an' en cose wasn't satisfied in town, so 'twasn't long 'fore I heered 'bout han's beein'
needed down de riber in Mississippi and dats where I went en stayed for two years and boss,
I sure was struck wid dat lan' what you could make a bale to a acre on an' I just knowed dat
I was gwine git rich in a hurry an' so I writ er letter to Ella en her peoples tellin' dem
'bout de rich lan' and 'vising dem to come down dere where I was and I was wantin' to marry
Ella den. Boss, and you know what, 'twasn't long afore I gits er letter back an' de letter
says dat Ella an' her peoples is down de riber in Arkansas from Memfis at Bledsoe wid Mars
Luch an' Miss Fannie where Mars Luch had done moved him an' Miss Fannie to a big plantation
dey had bought down dere.

"Dat was a funny thing how dat happened an' Bledsoe, it was right 'cross de riber from where
I was en had been for two years an' just soon es I git dat letter I 'range wid a nigger to
take me 'cross da riber in er skift to de plantation where dey all was and 'bout fust folkses
dat I see is Ella an' her peoples en lots of de famblys from de ole home place back in Tennessee
an' I sure was proud to see Mars Luch en Miss Fannie. Dey had built demselves a fine house
at a p'int dat was sorter like a knoll where de water don' git when de riber come out on de
lan' in case of oberflow and up de rode 'bout half mile from de house, Mars Luch had de store
en de gin. Dey had de boys den, dat is Mars Luch and Miss Fannie did, and de boys was named
Claude an' Clarence atter Miss Fannie's two brudders.

"Dem was de finest boys dat one ever did see. At dat time Claude, he 'bout two year old and
Clarence, he 'bout four er mebbe little less. Ella, she worked in da house cooking for Miss
Fannie an' nussin' de chillun and she plumb crazy 'bout de chillun an' dey just as satisfied
wid her as dey was wid dere mama and Ella thought more dem chillun dan she did anybody. She
just crazy 'bout dem boys. Mars Luch, he gibe me job right 'way sort flunkying for him and
hostling at de lot an' barn and 'twasn't long den 'fore Ella and me, us git married an' libs
in a cabin dat Mars Luch had built in de back of de big house.

"Us git 'long fine for more dan a year and Mars Luch, he raise plenty cotton an' at times us
ud take trip up to Memfis on de boat, on de Phil Allin what was 'bout de fineist boat on de
riber in dem days and de one dat most frequent put in at us landin' wid de freight for Mars
Luch and den he most ginally sont he cotton an' seed to Memfis on dis same Phil Allin.

"I jus' said, boss, dat us git 'long fine for more dan a year and us all mighty happy till
Miss Fannie took sick an' died an' it mighty nigh killed Mars Luch and all of us and Mars Luch,
he jus' droop for weeks till us git anxious 'bout him but atter while he git better and seam
like mebbe he gwine git ober he sadness but he neber was like he used to be afore Miss Fannie died.

"Atter Miss Fannie gone, Mars Luch, he say, 'Ella, you an' Luch mus' mobe in de big house an'
make you a bed in de room where de boys sleep, so's you can look atter 'em good, 'cause lots
nights I gwine be out late at de gin an' store an' I knows you gwine take plumb good care of
dem chillun.' An' so us fixed us bed in de big house an' de boys, dey sleeped right dar in
dat room on dere bed where us could take care of 'em.

"Dat went on for 'bout two years an' den Mars Luch, he 'gun to get in bad health an' jus' wasted
down like and den one night when he at de store he took down bad and dey laid him down on de
bed in de back room where he would sleep on sich nights dat he didn' come home when he was
so busy an' he sont a nigger on a mule for me to come up dar an' I went in he room an' Mars
Luch, he say, 'Lissen, Luch, you is been a good faithful nigger an' Ella too, an' I is gonna
die tonight and I wants you to send er letter to Miss Ellen in Virginny atter I is daid en
tell her to come an' git de boys 'cause she is all de kin peoples dat dey habe lef' now cepn
cose you an' Ella an' it mought be some time afore she gits here so you all take good en faithful
care dem till she 'rives an' tell her she habe to see dat all de bizness wind up and take de
boys back wid her an' keep dem till dey is growed,'

"Well, boss, us done jus' like Mars Luch tell us to do an' us sure feel sorry for dem two little
boys. Dey jus' 'bout five an' seben year old den and day sure loved dere pa; day was plumb
crazy 'bout Mars Luch and him 'bout dem too.

"'Bout two weeks from time dat Mars Luch daid, Miss Ellen come on de boat one night an' she
stayed some days windin' up de bizness and den she lef' an' take de boys 'way wid her back
to Virginny where she libed. Us sure did hate to 'part from dem chillun. Dat's been nigh on
to sixty years ago but us neber forgit dem boys an' us will allus lobe dem. Dey used to sen'
us presents an' sich every Christmas for seberal years and den us started movin' 'bout an'
I reckon dey don' know where we's at now. I sure would like to see dem boys ag'in. I betcha
I'd know dem right today. Mebbe I wouldn't, it's been so long since I seen 'em; but shucks,
I know dat dey would know me."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Laura Abromsom, R.F.D., Holly Grove, Arkansas
                    Receives mail at Clarendon, Arkansas
Age: 74

"My mama was named Eloise Rogers. She was born in Missouri. She was sold and brought to three
or four miles from Brownsville, Tennessee. Alex Rogers bought her and my papa. She had been
a house girl and well cared for. She never got in contact wid her folks no more after she was
sold. She was a dark woman. Papa was a ginger cake colored man. Mama talked like Alex Rogers
had four or five hundred acres of land and lots of niggers to work it. She said he had a cotton
factory at Brownsville.

"Mistress Barbara Ann was his wife. They had two boys and three girls. One boy George went
plumb crazy and outlived 'em all. The other boy died early. Alex Rogers got my papa in Richmond,
Virginia. He was took outer a gang. We had a big family. I have eight sisters and one brother.

"Pa say they strop 'em down at the carriage house and give 'em five hundred lashes. He say
they have salt and black pepper mixed up in er old bucket and put it all on flesh cut up with
a rag tied on a stick (mop). Alex Rogers had a nigger to put it on the place they whooped.
The Lord puts up wid such wrong doings and den he comes and rectifies it. He does that very way.

"Pa say they started to whoop him at the gin house. He was a sorter favorite. He cut up about
it. That didn't make no difference 'bout it. Somehow they scared him up but he didn't git whooped
thater time.

"They fed good on Alex Rogers' place. They'd buy a barrel of coffee, a barrel molasses, a barrel
sugar. Some great big barrels.

"Alex Rogers wasn't a good man. He'd tell them to steal a hog and git home wid it. If they
ketch you over there they'll whoop you. He'd help eat hogs they'd steal.

"One time papa was working on the roads. The neighbor man and road man was fixing up their
eating. He purty nigh starved on that road work. He was hired out.

"Mama and papa spoke like they was mighty glad to get sat free. Some believed they'd git freedom
and others didn't. They had places they met and prayed for freedom. They stole out in some
of their houses and turned a washpot down at the door. Another white man, not Alex Rogers,
tole mama and papa and a heap others out in the field working. She say they quit and had a
regular bawl in the field. They cried and laughed and hollered and danced. Lot of them run
offen the place soon as the man tole 'em. My folks stayed that year and another year.

"What is I been doing? Ast me is I been doing? What ain't I been doing be more like it. I raised
fifteen of my own children. I got four living. I living wid one right here in dis house wid
me now. I worked on the farm purty nigh all my life. I come to dis place. Wild, honey, it was!
I come in 1901. Heap of changes since then.

"Present times--Not as much union 'mongst young black and white as the old black and white.
They growing apart. Nobody got nothin' to give. No work. I used to could buy second-handed
clothes to do my little children a year for a little or nothin'. Won't sell 'em now nor give
'em 'way neither. They don't work hard as they used to. They say they don't git nothin' outen
it. They don't want to work. Times harder in winter 'cause it cold and things to eat killed
out. I cans meat. We dry beef. In town this Nickellodian playing wild wid young colored folks--these
Sea Bird music boxes. They play all kind things. Folks used to stay home Saturday nights. Too
much running 'round, excitement, wickedness in the world now. This generation is worst one.
They trying to cut the Big Apple dance when we old folks used to be down singing and praying,
'Cause dis is a wicked age times is bad and hard."

Interviewer's Comment

Mulatto, clean, intelligent.

Interviewer: Mrs. Zillah Cross Peel Person interviewed: "Aunt Adeline"      Age: 89 Home: 101
Rock Street, Fayetteville, Arkansas

"I was born a slave about 1848, in Hickmon County, Tennessee," said Aunt Adeline who lives
as care taker in a house at 101 Rock Street, Fayetteville, Arkansas, which is owned by the
Blakely-Hudgens estate.

Aunt Adeline has been a slave and a servant in five generations of the Parks family. Her mother,
Liza, with a group of five Negroes, was sold into slavery to John P.A. Parks, in Tennessee,
about 1840.

"When my mother's master come to Arkansas about 1849, looking for a country residence, he bought
what was known as the old Kidd place on the Old Wire Road, which was one of the Stage Coach
stops. I was about one year old when we came. We had a big house and many times passengers
would stay several days and wait for the next stage to come by. It was then that I earned my
first money. I must have been about six or seven years old. One of Mr. Parks' daughters was
about one and a half years older than I was. We had a play house back of the fireplace chimney.
We didn't have many toys; maybe a doll made of a corn cob, with a dress made from scraps and
a head made from a roll of scraps. We were playing church. Miss Fannie was the preacher and
I was the audience. We were singing "Jesus my all to Heaven is gone." When we were half way
through with our song we discovered that the passengers from the stage coach had stopped to
listen. We were so frightened at our audience that we both ran. But we were coaxed to come
back for a dime and sing our song over. I remember that Miss Fannie used a big leaf for a book.

"I had always been told from the time I was a small child that I was a Negro of African stock.
That it was no disgrace to be a Negro and had it not been for the white folks who brought us
over here from Africa as slaves, we would never have been here and would have been much better off.

"We colored folks were not allowed to be taught to read or write. It was against the law. My
master's folks always treated me well. I had good clothes. Sometimes I was whipped for things
I should not have done just as the white children were.

"When a young girl was married her parents would always give her a slave. I was given by my
master to his daughter, Miss Elizabeth, who married Mr. Blakely. I was just five years old.
She moved into a new home at Fayetteville and I was taken along but she soon sent me back home
to my master telling him that I was too little and not enough help to her. So I went back to
the Parks home and stayed until I was over seven years old. [1]My master made a bill of sale
for me to his daughter, in order to keep account of all settlements, so when he died and the
estate settled each child would know how he stood.

"I was about 15 years old when the Civil War ended and was still living with Mrs. Blakely and
helped care for her little children. Her daughter, Miss Lenora, later married H.M. Hudgens,
and I then went to live with her and cared for her children. When her daughter Miss Helen married
Professor Wiggins, I took care of her little daughter, and this made five generations that
I have cared for.

"During the Civil War, Mr. Parks took all his slaves and all of his fine stock, horses and
cattle and went South to Louisiana following the Southern army for protection. Many slave owners
left the county taking with them their slaves and followed the army.

"When the war was over, Mr. Parks was still in the South and gave to each one of his slaves
who did not want to come back to Arkansas so much money. My uncle George came back with Mr.
Parks and was given a good mountain farm of forty acres, which he put in cultivation and one
of my uncle's descendants still lives on the place. My mother did not return to Arkansas but
went on to Joplin, Missouri, and for more than fifty years, neither one of us knew where the
other one was until one day a man from Fayetteville went into a restaurant in Joplin and ordered
his breakfast, and my mother who was in there heard him say he lived in Fayetteville, Arkansas.
He lived just below the Hudgens home and when my mother enquired about the family he told her
I was still alive and was with the family. While neither of us could read nor write we corresponded
through different people. But I never saw her after I was eleven years old. Later Mr. Hudgens
went to Joplin to see if she was well taken care of. She owned her own little place and when
she died there was enough money for her to be buried.

"Civil War days are vivid to me. The Courthouse which was then in the middle of the Square
was burned one night by a crazy Confederate soldier. The old men in the town saved him and
then put him in the county jail to keep him from burning other houses. Each family was to take
food to him and they furnished bedding. The morning I was to take his breakfast, he had ripped
open his feather bed and crawled inside to get warm. The room was so full of feathers when
I got there that his food nearly choked him. I had carried him ham, hot biscuits and a pot
of coffee.

"After the War many soldiers came to my mistress, Mrs. Blakely, trying to make her free me.
I told them I was free but I did not want to go anywhere, that I wanted to stay in the only
home that I had ever known. In a way that placed me in a wrong attitude. I was pointed out
as different. Sometimes I was threatened for not leaving but I stayed on.

"I had always been well treated by my master's folks. While we lived at the old Kidd place,
there was a church a few miles from our home. My uncle George was coachman and drove my master's
family in great splendor in a fine barouche to church. After the war, when he went to his own
place, Mr. Parks gave him the old carriage and bought a new one for the family.

"I can remember the days of slavery as happy ones. We always had an abundance of food. Old
Aunt Martha cooked and there was always plenty prepared for all the white folks as well as
the colored folks. There was a long table at the end of the big kitchen for the colored folks.
The vegetables were all prepared of an evening by Aunt Martha with someone to help her.

"My mother seemed to have a gift of telling fortunes. She had a brass ring about the size of
a dollar with a handwoven knotted string that she used. I remember that she told many of the
young people in the neighborhood many strange things. They would come to her with their premonitions.

"Yes, we were afraid of the patyroles. All colored folks were. They said that any Negroes that
were caught away from their master's premises without a permit would be whipped by the patyroles.
They used to sing a song:

  'Run nigger run,
   The patyroles
   Will get you.'

"Yes'm, the War separated lots of families. Mr. Parks' son, John C. Parks, enlisted in Colonel
W.H. Brooks' regiment at Fayetteville as third lieutenant. Mr. Jim Parks was killed at the
Battle of Getysburg.

"I do remember it was my mistress, Mrs. Blakely, who kept the Masonic Building from being burned.
The soldiers came to set it on fire. Mrs. Blakely knew that if it burned, our home would burn
as it was just across the street. Mrs. Blakely had two small children who were very ill in
upstairs rooms. She told the soldiers if they burned the Masonic Building that her house would
burn and she would be unable to save her little children. They went away."

While Aunt Adeline is nearing ninety, she is still active, goes shopping and also tends to
the many crepe myrtle bushes as well as many other flowers at the Hudgens place.

She attends to the renting of the apartment house, as caretaker, and is taken care of by members
of the Blakely-Hudgens families.

Aunt Adeline talks "white folks language," as they say, and seldom associates with the colored
people of the town.

[Footnote 1: This statement can be verified by the will made by John P.A. Parks, and filed
in Probate Court in the clerk's office in Washington County.]

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Rose Adway
                    405 W. Pullen, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born three years 'fore surrender. That's what my people told me. Born in Mississippi.
Let me see what county I come out of. Smith County--that's where I was bred and born.

"I know I seen the Yankees but I didn't know what they was. My mama and papa and all of 'em
talked about the War.

"My papa was a water toter in durin' the War. No, he didn't serve the army--just on the farm.

"Mama was the cook for her missis in slavery times.

"I think my folks went off after freedom and then come back. That was after they had done been
sot free. I can remember dat all right.

"I registered down here at the Welfare and I had to git my license from Mississippi and I didn't
remember which courthouse I got my license, but I sent letters over there till I got it up.
I got all my papers now, but I ain't never got no pension.

"I been through so much I can't git much in my remembrance, but I was here--that ain't no joke--I
been here.

"My folks said their owners was all right. You know they was 'cause they come back. I remember
dat all right.

"I been farmin' till I got disabled. After I married I went to farmin'. And I birthed fourteen
head of chillun by dat one man! Fourteen head by dat one man! Stayed at home and took care
of 'em till I got 'em up some size, too. All dead but five out of the fourteen head.

"My missis' name was Miss Catherine and her husband named Abe Carr.

"I went to school a little bit--mighty little. I could read but I never could write.

"And I'm about to go blind in my old age. I need help and I need it bad. Chillun ain't able
to help me none 'cept give me a little bread and give me some medicine once in a while. But
I'm thankful to the Lord I can get outdoors.

"I don't know what to think of this young race. That baby there knows more than I do now, nearly.
Back there when I was born, I didn't know nothin'.

"I know they said it was bad luck to bring a hoe or a ax in the house on your shoulder. I heard
the old folks tell dat--sure did.

"And I was told dat on old Christmas night the cows gets down on their knees and gives thanks
to the Lord.

"I 'member one song:

  'I am climbin' Jacob's ladder
   I am climbin' Jacob's ladder
   I am climbin' Jacob's ladder
   For the work is almost done.

  'Every round goes higher and higher
   Every round goes higher and higher
   Every round goes higher and higher
   For my work is almost done.

  'Sister, now don't you get worried
   Sister, now don't you get worried
   Sister, now don't you get worried
   For the work is almost done.'

My mother used to sing dat when she was spinnin' and cardin'. They'd spin and dye the thread
with some kind of indigo. Oh, I 'member dat all right."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Liddie Aiken, Wheatley, Arkansas Age: 62

"My mother was born in southwest Georgia close to the Alabama line. Her mother come from Virginia.
She was sold with her mother and two little brothers. Her mother had been sold and come in
a wagon to southwest Georgia. They was all field hands. They cleaned out new ground. They was
afraid of hoop-snakes. She said they look like a hoop rolling and whatever they stuck a horn
or their tail in it died. They killed trees.

"Mama said she druther plough than chop. She was a big woman and they let her plough right
along by her two little brothers, Henry and Will Keller. Will et so many sweet potatoes they
called him 'Tater Keller.' After he got grown we come out here. Folks called him 'Tate Keller.'
Henry died. I recollect Uncle Tate.

"I was born close to Mobile, Alabama. Mama was named Sarah Keller. Grandma was called Mariah.
Banks Tillman sold her the first time. Bill Keller bought them all the last time. His wife
was named Ada Keller. They had a great big family but I forgot what they said about them. Mack
clem up in a persimmon tree one day and the old man hollered at him, 'Get out of that tree
'fore you fall.' 'Bout then the boy turned 'loose and fell. It knocked the breath out him.
It didn't kill him. Three or four of Miss Ada's children died with congestive chills. Mama
said the reason they had them chills they played down at the gin pond all the time. It was
shady and a pretty place and they was allowed to play in the pond. Three or four of them died
nearly in a heap.

"One of the boys had a pet billy-goat. It got up on top mama's house one time. It would bleat
and look down at them. They was afraid it would jump down on them if they went out. It chewed
up things Aunt Beanie washed. She had them put out on bushes and might had a line too. They
fattened it and killed it. Mama said Mr. Bill Keller never had nothing too good to divide with
his niggers. I reckon by that they got some of the goat.

"They lived like we live now. Every family done his own cooking. I don't know how many families
lived on the place.

"I know about the Yankees. They come by and every one of the men and boys went with them but
Uncle Cal. He was cripple and they advised him not to start. Didn't none of the women go. Mama
said she never seen but one ever come back. She thought they got killed or went on some place else.

"Mr. Keller died and Miss Ada went back to her folks. They left everything in our care that
they didn't move. She took all her house things. They sold or took all their stock. They left
us a few cows and pigs. I don't know how long they stayed after the old man died. His children
was young; he might not been so old.

"I recollect grandma. She smoked a pipe nearly all the time. My papa was a livery stable man.
He was a fine man with stock. He was a little black man. Mama was too big. Grandma was taller
but she was slick black. He lived at Mobile, Alabama. I was the onliest child mama had. Uncle
'Tate Keller' took grandma and mama to Mobile. He never went to the War. He was a good carpenter
and he worked out when he didn't have a lot to do in the field. He was off at work when all
the black men and boys left Mr. Bill. He never went back after they left till freedom.

"They didn't know when freedom took place. They was all scattering for two years about to get
work and something to eat. Tate come and got them. They went off in a wagon that Tate made
for his master, Bill Keller. We come to Tupelo, Mississippi from Mobile when I was a little
bit of a girl. Then we made one crop and come to Helena. Uncle Tate died there and mama died
at Crocketts Bluff. My papa died back in Mobile, Alabama. He was breaking a young horse and
got throwed up side a tree. He didn't live long then.

"I got three boys now and I had seben--all boys. They farms and do public work. Tom is in Memphis.
Pete is in Helena and I live wid Macon between here (Wheatley) and Cotton Plant. We farm. I
done everything could be thought of on a farm. I ploughed some less than five year ago. I liked
to plough. My boy ploughs all he can now and we do the chopping. We all pick cotton and get
in the corn. We work day laborers now.

"If I was young the times wouldn't stand in my way. I could make it. I don't know what is the
trouble lessen some wants too much. They can't get it. We has a living and thankful for it.
I never 'plied for no help yet.

"I still knits my winter stockings. I got knitting needles and cards my own mother had and
used. I got use for them. I wears clothes on my body in cold weather. One reason you young
folks ain't no 'count you don't wear enough clothes when it is cold. I wear flannel clothes
if I can get holt of them.

"Education done ruint the world. I learnt to read a little. I never went to school. I learnt
to work. I learnt my boys to go with me to the field and not to be ashamed to sweat. It's healthy.
They all works."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person Interviewed: Mattie Aldridge Age: 60?            Hazen,
Arkansas

"My mother's old owner named Master Sanders. She born somewhere in Tennessee. I heard her say
she lived in Mississippi. I was born in Tennessee. My pa was born in Mississippi. I know he
belong to the Duncans. His name George Washington Duncan. There ain't nary drap white blood
in none us. I got four brothers. I do remembers grandma. She set and tell us tales bout old
times like you want to know. Been so long I forgotten. Ma was a house girl and pa a field hand.
Way grandma talked it must of been hard to find out what white folks wanted em to do, cause
she couldn't tell what you say some times. She never did talk plain.

