Thursday, 27th. A little fine snow fell this morning and the air was colder than yesterday,
with a high northwest wind. We were fortunate enough to have among our men a good blacksmith,
whom we set to work to make a variety of articles; his operations seemed to surprise the Indians
who came to see us, but nothing could equal their astonishment at the bellows, which they considered
as a very great medicine. Having heretofore promised a more particular account of the Sioux,
the following may serve as a general outline of their history:

Almost the whole of that vast tract of country comprised between the Mississippi, the Red River
of Lake Winnepeg, the Saskaskawan, and the Missouri, is loosely occupied by a great nation
whose primitive name is Darcota, but who are called Sioux by the French, Sues by the English.
Their original seats were on the Mississippi, but they have gradually spread themselves abroad
and become subdivided into numerous tribes. Of these, what may be considered as the Darcotas
are the Mindawarcarton, or Minowakanton, known to the French by the name of the Gens du Lac,
or People of the Lake. Their residence is on both sides of the Mississippi near the falls of
St. Anthony, and the probable number of their warriors about three hundred. Above them, on
the river St. Peter's, is the Wahpatone, a smaller band of nearly two hundred men; and still
farther up the same river below Yellow-wood river are the Wahpatootas or Gens de Feuilles,
an inferior band of not more than one hundred men; while the sources of the St. Peter's are
occupied by the Sisatoones, a band consisting of about two hundred warriors.

These bands rarely if ever approach the Missouri, which is occupied by their kinsmen the Yanktons
and the Tetons. The Yanktons are of two tribes, those of the plains, or rather of the north,
a wandering race of about five hundred men, who roam over the plains at the heads of the Jacques,
the Sioux, and the Red river; and those of the south, who possess the country between the Jacques
and Sioux rivers and the Desmoine. But the bands of Sioux most known on the Missouri are the
Tetons. The first who are met on ascending the Missouri is the tribe called by the French the
Tetons of the Boise Brule or Burntwood, who reside on both sides of the Missouri, about White
and Teton rivers, and number two hundred warriors. Above them on the Missouri are the Teton
Okandandas, a band of one hundred and fifty men living below the Chayenne river, between which
and the Wetarhoo river is a third band, called Teton Minnakenozzo, of nearly two hundred and
fifty men; and below the Warreconne is the fourth and last tribe of Tetons of about three hundred
men, and called Teton Saone. Northward of these, between the Assiniboin and the Missouri, are
two bands of Assiniboins, one on Mouse river of about two hundred men, and called Assiniboin
Menatopa; the other, residing on both sides of White river, called by the French Gens de Feuilles,
and amounting to two hundred and fifty men. Beyond these a band of Assiniboins of four hundred
and fifty men, and called the Big Devils, wander on the heads of Milk, Porcupine, and Martha's
rivers; while still farther to the north are seen two bands of the same nation, one of five
hundred and the other of two hundred, roving on the Saskaskawan. Those Assiniboins are recognised
by a similarity of language, and by tradition as descendents or seceders from the Sioux; though
often at war are still acknowledged as relations. The Sioux themselves, though scattered, meet
annually on the Jacques, those on the Missouri trading with those on the Mississippi. The wind
continued high last night, the frost severe, and the snow drifting in great quantities through
the plains.

Saturday, 29th. There was a frost fell last night nearly one quarter of an inch in depth, which
continued to fall till the sun had gained some height: the mercury at sunrise stood at 9° below
0: there were a number of Indians at the fort in the course of the day.

Sunday, 30th. The weather was cold, and the thermometer 20° below 0. We killed one deer, and
yesterday one of the men shot a wolf. The Indians brought corn, beans, and squashes, which
they very readily gave for getting their axes and kettles mended. In their general conduct
during these visits they are honest, but will occasionally pilfer any small article.

Monday, 31. During the night there was a high wind which covered the ice with hillocks of mixed
sand and snow: the day was however fine, and the Indians came in great numbers for the purpose
of having their utensils repaired.

Tuesday, January 1, 1805. The new year was welcomed by two shot from the swivel and a round
of small arms. The weather was cloudy but moderate; the mercury which at sunrise was at 18°,
in the course of the day rose to 34° above 0: towards evening it began to rain, and at night
we had snow, the temperature for which is about 0. In the morning we permitted sixteen men
with their music to go up to the first village, where they delighted the whole tribe with their
dances, particularly with the movements of one of the Frenchmen who danced on his head. In
return they presented the dancers with several buffaloe robes and quantities of corn. We were
desirous of showing this attention to the village, because they had received an impression
that we had been wanting in regard for them, and they had in consequence circulated invidious
comparisons between us and the northern traders: all these however they declared to captain
Clarke, who visited them in the course of the morning, were made in jest. As captain Clarke
was about leaving the village, two of their chiefs returned from a mission to the Grosventres
or wandering Minnetarees. These people were encamped about ten miles above, and while there
one of the Ahnahaways had stolen a Minnetaree girl: the whole nation immediately espoused the
quarrel, and one hundred and fifty of their warriors were marching down to revenge the insult
on the Ahnahaways. The chief of that nation took the girl from the ravisher, and giving her
to the Mandans requested their intercession. The messengers went out to meet the warriors,
and delivered the young damsel into the hands of her countrymen, smoked the pipe of peace with
them, and were fortunate enough to avert their indignation and induce them to return. In the
evening some of the men came to the fort and the rest slept in the village. Pocapsahe also
visited us and brought some meat on his wife's back.

Wednesday, January 2. It snowed last night, and during this day the same scene of gayety was
renewed at the second village, and all the men returned in the evening.

Thursday 3. Last night it became very cold, and this morning we had some snow: our hunters
were sent out for buffaloe, but the game had been frightened from the river by the Indians,
so that they obtained only one: they however killed a hare and a wolf. Among the Indians who
visited us was a Minnetaree who came to seek his wife: she had been much abused and came here
for protection, but returned with him; as we had no authority to separate those whom even the
Mandan rites had united.

Friday 4. The morning was cloudy and warm, the mercury being 28° above 0: but towards evening
the wind changed to northwest, and the weather became cold. We sent some hunters down the river,
but they killed only one buffaloe and a wolf. We received the visit of Kagohami who is very
friendly, and to whom we gave a hankerchief and two files.

Saturday 5. We had high and boisterous winds last night and this morning: the Indians continue
to purchase repairs with grain of different kinds. In the first village there has been a buffaloe
dance for the last three nights, which has put them all into commotion, and the description
which we received from those of the party who visited the village and from other sources, is
not a little ludicrous: the buffaloe dance is an institution originally intended for the benefit
of the old men, and practised at their suggestion. When buffaloe becomes scarce they send a
man to harangue the village, declaring that the game is far off and that a feast is necessary
to bring it back, and if the village be disposed a day and place is named for the celebration
of it. At the appointed hour the old men arrive, and seat themselves crosslegged on skins round
a fire in the middle of the lodge with a sort of doll or small image, dressed like a female,
placed before them. The young men bring with them a platter of provisions, a pipe of tobacco,
and their wives, whose dress on the occasion is only a robe or mantle loosely thrown round
the body. On their arrival each youth selects the old man whom he means to distinguish by his
favour, and spreads before him the provisions, after which he presents the pipe and smokes
with him. Mox senex vir simulacrum parvæ puellæ ostensit. Tune egrediens eætu, jecit effigium
solo et superincumbens, senili ardore veneris complexit. Hoc est signum. Denique uxor e turba
recessit, et jactu corporis, fovet amplexus viri solo recubante. Maritus appropinquans senex
vir dejecto vultu, et honorem et dignitatem ejus conservare amplexu uxoris illum oravit. Forsitan
imprimis ille refellit; dehine, maritus multis precibus, multis lachrymis, et multis donis
vehementer intercessit. Tune senex amator perculsus miserecordia, tot precibus, tot lachrymis,
et tot donis, conjugali amplexu submisit. Multum ille jactatus est, sed debilis et effoetus
senectute, frustra jactatus est. Maritus interdum stans juxta guadit multum honore, et ejus
dignitati sic conservata. Unus nostrum sodalium multum alacrior et potentior juventute, hac
nocte honorem quartour maritorum custodivit.

Sunday 6. A clear cold morning with high wind: we caught in a trap a large gray wolf, and last
night obtained in the same way a fox who had for some time infested the neighbourhood of the
fort. Only a few Indians visited us to-day.

Monday 7. The weather was again clear and cold with a high northwest wind, and the thermometer
at sunrise 22° below 0; the river fell an inch. Shahaka the Big White chief dined with us,
and gave a connected sketch of the country as far as the mountains.

Tuesday 8. The wind was still from the northwest, the day cold, and we received few Indians
at the fort. Besides the buffaloe dance we have just described, there is another called medicine
dance, an entertainment given by any person desirous of doing honour to his medicine or genius.
He announces, that on such a day he will sacrifice his horses, or other property, and invites
the young females of the village to assist in rendering homage to his medicine; all the inhabitants
may join in the solemnity, which is performed in the open plain and by daylight, but the dance
is reserved for the virgins or at least the unmarried females, who disdain the incumbrance
or the ornament of dress. The feast is opened by devoting the goods of the master of the feast
to his medicine, which is represented by a head of the animal itself, or by a medicine bag
if the deity be an invisible being. The young women then begin the dance, in the intervals
of which each will prostrate herself before the assembly to challenge or reward the boldness
of the youth, who are often tempted by feeling or the hopes of distinction to achieve the adventure.

Wednesday 9. The weather is cold, the thermometer at sunrise 21° below 0. Kagohami breakfasted
with us, and captain Clarke with three or four men accompanied him and a party of Indians to
hunt, in which they were so fortunate as to kill a number of buffaloe: but they were incommoded
by snow, by high and squally winds, and by extreme cold; several of the Indians came to the
fort nearly frozen, others are missing, and we are uneasy, for one of our men who was separated
from the rest during the chase has not returned: In the morning,

Thursday 10, however, he came back just as we were sending out five men in search of him. The
night had been excessively cold, and this morning at sunrise the mercury stood at 40° below
0, or 72 below the freezing point. He had however, made a fire and kept himself tolerably warm.
A young Indian, about thirteen years of age, also came in soon after.

Friday 11. We despatched three hunters to join the same number whom we had sent below about
seven miles to hunt elk. Like that of yesterday the weather to-day was cold and clear, the
thermometer standing at 38° below 0. Poscopsahe and Shotahawrora visited us, and past the night
at the fort.

Saturday 12. The weather continues very cold, the mercury at sunrise being 20° below 0. Three
of the hunters returned, having killed three elk.

Sunday 13. We have a continuation of clear weather, and the cold has increased, the mercury
having sunk to 34° below 0. Chaboneau who with one man had gone to some lodges of Minnetarees
near the Turtle mountain, returned with their faces much frostbitten. They had been about ninety
miles distant, and procured from the inhabitants some meat and grease, with which they loaded
the horses. He informs us that the agent of the Hudson bay company at that place, had been
endeavouring to make unfavourable impressions with regard to us on the mind of the great chief,
and that the N.W. company intend building a fort there. The great chief had in consequence
spoken slightly of the Americans, but said that if we would give him our great flag he would
come and see us.

Monday 14. The Mandans continue to pass down the river on their hunting party, and were joined
by six of our men. One of those sent on Thursday returned, with information that one of his
companions had his feet so badly frostbitten that he could not walk home. In their excursion
they had killed a buffaloe, a wolf, two porcupines and a white hare. The weather was more moderate
to-day, the mercury being at 16° below 0, and the wind from the S.E. we had however some snow,
after which it remained cloudy.

Tuesday 15. The morning is much warmer than yesterday, and the snow begins to melt, though
the wind after being for some time from the S.E. suddenly shifted to N.W. Between twelve and
three o'clock A.M. there was a total eclipse of the moon, from which we obtained a part of
the observation necessary for ascertaining the longitude.

We were visited by four of the most distinguished men of the Minnetarees, to whom we showed
marked attentions, as we knew that they had been taught to entertain strong prejudices against
us; these we succeeded so well in removing, that when in the morning,

Wednesday 16, about thirty Mandans, among whom six were chiefs came to see us, the Minnetarees
reproached them with their falsehoods, declaring that they were bad men and ought to hide themselves.
They had told the Minnetarees that we would kill them if they came to the fort, yet on the
contrary they had spent a night there and been treated with kindness by the whites, who had
smoked with them and danced for their amusement. Kagohami visited us and brought us a little
corn, and soon afterwards one of the first war chiefs of the Minnetarees came accompanied by
his squaw, a handsome woman, whom he was desirous we should use during the night. He favoured
us with a more acceptable present, a draft of the Missouri in his manner, and informed us of
his intention to go to war in the spring against the Snake Indians; we advised him to reflect
seriously before he committed the peace of his nation to the hazards of war; to look back on
the numerous nations whom war has destroyed, that if he wished his nation to be happy he should
cultivate peace and intercourse with all his neighbours, by which means they would procure
more horses, increase in numbers, and that if he went to war he would displease his great father
the president, and forfeit his protection. We added that we had spoken thus to all the tribes
whom we had met, that they had all opened their ears, and that the president would compel those
who did not voluntarily listen to his advice. Although a young man of only twenty-six years
of age, this discourse seemed to strike him. He observed that if it would be displeasing to
us he would not go to war, since he had horses enough, and that he would advise all the nation
to remain at home, until we had seen the Snake Indians, and discovered whether their intentions
were pacific. The party who went down with the horses for the man who was frostbitten returned,
and we are glad to find his complaint not serious.

Thursday 17. The day was very windy from the north; the morning clear and cold, the thermometer
at sunrise being at 0: we had several Indians with us.

Friday 18. The weather is fine and moderate. Messrs. Laroche and M'Kenzie, two of the N.W.
company's traders, visited us with some of the Minnetarees. In the afternoon two of our hunters
returned, having killed four wolves and a blaireau.

Saturday 19. Another cloudy day. The two traders set out on their return, and we sent two men
with the horses thirty miles below to the hunting camp.

Sunday 20. The day fair and cold. A number of Indians visit us with corn to exchange for articles,
and to pay for repairs to their household utensils.

Monday 21. The weather was fine and moderate. The hunters all returned, having killed during
their absence three elk, four deer, two porcupines, a fox and a hare.

Tuesday 22. The cold having moderated and the day pleasant, we attempted to cut the boats out
of the ice, but at the distance of eight inches came to water, under which the ice became three
feet thick, so that we were obliged to desist.

Wednesday 23. The cold weather returned, the mercury having sunk 2° below 0, and the snow fell
four inches deep.

Thursday 24. The day was colder than any we have had lately, the thermometer being at 12° below
0. The hunters whom we sent out returned unsuccessful, and the rest were occupied in cutting
wood to make charcoal.

Friday 25. The thermometer was at 25° below 0, the Wind from N.W. and the day fair, so that
the men were employed in preparing coal, and cutting the boats out of the ice. A band of Assiniboins
headed by their chief, called by the French, Son of the Little Calf, have arrived at the villages.

Saturday 26. A fine warm day: a number of Indians dine with us: and one of our men is attacked
with a violent pleurisy.

Sunday 27. Another warm and pleasant day: we again attempted to get the boat out of the ice.
The man who has the pleurisy was blooded and sweated, and we were forced to take off the toes
of the young Indian who was frostbitten some time since. Our interpreter returned from the
villages, bringing with him three of Mr. Laroche's horses which he had sent in order to keep
them out of the way of the Assiniboins, who are very much disposed to steal, and who have just
returned to their camp.

Monday 28. The weather to-day is clear and cold: we are obliged to abandon the plan of cutting
the boat through the ice, and therefore made another attempt the next day,

Tuesday 29, by heating a quantity of stones so as to warm the water in the boat, and thaw the
surrounding ice: but in this too we were disappointed, as all the stones on being put into
the fire cracked into pieces: the weather warm and pleasant: the man with the pleurisy is recovering.

Wednesday 30. The morning was fair, but afterwards became cloudy. Mr. Laroche the trader from
the northwest company paid us a visit, in hopes of being able to accompany us on our journey
westward, but this proposal we thought it best to decline.

Thursday 31. It snowed last night, and the morning is cold and disagreeable, with a high wind
from the northwest: we sent five hunters down the river. Another man is taken with the pleurisy.

Friday, February 1. A cold windy day: our hunters returned having killed only one deer. One
of the Minnetaree war chiefs, a young man named Maubuksheahokeah or Seeing Snake, came to see
us and procure a war hatchet: he also requested that we would suffer him to go to war against
the Sioux and Ricaras who had killed a Mandan some time ago: this we refused for reasons which
we explained to him. He acknowledged that we were right, and promised to open his ears to our
counsels.

Saturday 2. The day is fine: another deer was killed. Mr. Laroche who has been very anxious
to go with us left the fort to-day, and one of the squaws of the Minnetaree interpreter is
taken ill.

Sunday 3. The weather is again pleasant: disappointed in all our efforts to get the boats free,
we occupied ourselves in making iron spikes so as to prize them up by means of long poles.

Monday 4. The morning fair and cold, the mercury at sunrise being 18° below 0, and the wind
from the northwest. The stock of meat which we had procured in November and December being
now nearly exhausted, it became necessary to renew our supply; captain Clarke therefore took
eighteen men, and with two sleighs and three horses descended the river for the purpose of
hunting, as the buffaloe has disappeared from our neighbourhood, and the Indians are themselves
suffering for want of meat. Two deer were killed to-day but they were very lean.

Tuesday 5. A pleasant fair morning with the wind from northwest: a number of the Indians come
with corn for the blacksmith, who being now provided with coal has become one of our greatest
resources for procuring grain. They seem particularly attached to a battle axe, of a very inconvenient
figure: it is made wholly of iron, the blade extremely thin, and from seven to nine inches
long; it is sharp at the point and five or six inches on each side, whence they converge towards
the eye, which is circular and about an inch in diameter, the blade itself being not more than
an inch wide, the handle is straight, and twelve or fifteen inches long; the whole weighing
about a pound. By way of ornament, the blade is perforated with several circular holes. The
length of the blade compared with the shortness of the handle render it a weapon of very little
strength, particularly as it is always used on horseback: there is still however another form
which is even worse, the same sort of handle being fixed to a blade resembling an espontoon.

Wednesday, February 6. The morning was fair and pleasant, the wind N.W. A number of Indian
chiefs visited us and withdrew after we had smoked with them contrary to their custom, for
after being once introduced into our apartment they are fond of lounging about during the remainder
of the day. One of the men killed three antelopes. Our blacksmith has his time completely occupied,
so great is the demand for utensils of different kinds. The Indians are particularly fond of
sheet iron, out of which they form points for arrows and instruments for scraping hides, and
when the blacksmith cut up an old cambouse of that metal, we obtained for every piece of four
inches square seven or eight gallons of corn from the Indians, who were delighted at the exchange.

Thursday 7. The morning was fair and much warmer than for some days, the thermometer being
at 18° above 0, and the wind from the S.E. A number of Indians continue to visit us; but learning
that the interpreter's squaws had been accustomed to unbar the gate during the night, we ordered
a lock put on it, and that no Indian should remain in the fort all night, nor any person admitted
during the hours when the gate is closed, that is from sunset to sunrise.

Friday 8. A fair pleasant morning, with S.E. winds. Pocopsahe came down to the fort with a
bow, and apologized for his not having finished a shield which he had promised captain Lewis,
and which the weather had prevented him from completing. This chief possesses more firmness,
intelligence, and integrity, than any Indian of this country, and he might be rendered highly
serviceable in our attempts to civilize the nation. He mentioned that the Mandans are very
much in want of meat, and that he himself had not tasted any for several days. To this distress
they are often reduced by their own improvidence, or by their unhappy situation. Their principal
article of food is buffaloe-meat, their corn, beans, and other grain being reserved for summer,
or as a last resource against what they constantly dread, an attack from the Sioux, who drive
off the game and confine them to their villages. The same fear too prevents their going out
to hunt in small parties to relieve their occasional wants, so that the buffaloe is generally
obtained in large quantities and wasted by carelessness.

Saturday 9. The morning was fair and pleasant, the wind from the S.E. Mr. M'Kenzie from the
N.W. company establishment visited us.

Sunday 10. A slight snow fell in the course of the night, the morning was cloudy, and the northwest
wind blew so high that although the thermometer was 18° above 0, the day was cooler than yesterday,
when it was only 10° above the same point. Mr. M'Kenzie left us, and Chaboneau returned with
information that our horses loaded with meat were below, but could not cross the ice not being
shod.

Monday 11. We sent down a party with sleds, to relieve the horses from their loads; the weather
fair and cold, with a N.W. wind. About five o'clock one of the wives of Chaboneau was delivered
of a boy; this being her first child she was suffering considerable, when Mr. Jessaume told
captain Lewis that he had frequently administered to persons in her situation, a small dose
of the rattle of the rattlesnake which had never failed to hasten the delivery. Having some
of the rattle, captain Lewis gave it to Mr. Jessaume who crumbled two of the rings of it between
his fingers, and mixing it with a small quantity of water gave it to her. What effect it may
really have had it might be difficult to determine, but captain Lewis was informed that she
had not taken it more than ten minutes before the delivery took place.

Tuesday 12. The morning is fair though cold, the mercury being 14° below the wind from the
S.E. About four o'clock the horses were brought in much fatigued; on giving them meal bran
moistened with water they would not eat it, but preferred the bark of the cottonwood, which
as is already observed forms their principal food during the winter. The horses of the Mandans
are so often stolen by the Sioux, Ricaras, and Assiniboins, that the invariable rule now is
to put the horses every night in the same lodge with the family. In the summer they ramble
in the plains in the vicinity of the camp, and feed on the grass, but during cold weather the
squaws cut down the cottonwood trees as they are wanted, and the horses feed on the boughs
and bark of the tender branches, which are also brought into the lodges at night and placed
near them. These animals are very severely treated; for whole days they are pursuing the buffaloe,
or burdened with the fruits of the chase, during which they scarcely ever taste food, and at
night return to a scanty allowance of wood; yet the spirit of this valuable animal sustains
him through all these difficulties, and he is rarely deficient either in flesh or vigour.

