It now becomes expedient to present the reader with our separate accounts, in which we hope
to be able to convey an idea of the manners and customs of these people. We had experienced
in a very short time so many vicissitudes, and passed through so many scenes of distress, that
no opportunity was afforded to keep a journal, and notwithstanding we had even lost the day
of the week and month, yet with such force, were the principal incidents which occurred during
our exile, impressed upon our minds, that we can with confidence proceed with our narrative,
and will commence the next chapter with an account of the adventures of William Lay.

CHAPTER V.

Early in the morning of the day on which Hussey left me, preparations were made for his embarkation
with his new master and family. We were allowed a short interview, and after taking an affectionate
leave of each other, we parted with heavy hearts. The tender ties which bound me to my companion
in misfortune, seemed now about to be forever broken asunder. No features to gaze upon, but
those of my savage masters, and no one with whom I could hold converse, my heart seemed bursting
with grief at my lonely situation.--On the departure of my companion, the "star of hope" which
had often gleamed brightly mid the night of our miseries, seemed now about to set forever!
After watching the canoe which bore him from me, until she was hid from my view in the distance,
I returned to the hut with my master, and as I had eaten but little during the day, the calls
of nature induced me to broil my last morsel of meat, with which, and some bread, I made a
tolerable supper. The natives began to be very fond of the bread, and eat of it as long as
it lasted, which unfortunately for me, was but a short time.

I informed my master that I should like to have some more of the meat from the place where
the ship had lain. On the following morning, my master, mistress, and four or five others embarked
in a canoe, to assist me in procuring some provisions. Observing that they carried with them
a number of clubs, and each a spear, I was apprehensive of some design upon my own person;
but happily, was soon relieved, by seeing them wade round a shoal of fish, and after having
frightened them into shoal water, kill a number with their spears. We then proceeded on, and
when we arrived at the tent, they cooked them after the following manner. A large fire was
kindled, and after the wood was burned to coals, the fish were thrown on, and snatched and
eaten as fast as cooked; although they were kind enough to preserve a share for me, yet the
scene around me, prevented my enjoying with them, their meal. The tent which had been torn
down, had contained about forty barrels of beef and pork, two hogsheads of molasses, barrels
of pickles, all the clothing and stores belonging to the ship, in short, every thing valuable,
such as charts, nautical instruments, &c. &c. The latter had been broken and destroyed, to
make ornaments, while the beef, pork, molasses and small stores lay scattered promiscuously
around. They appeared to set no value upon the clothing, except to tear and destroy it. The
pieces of beef and pork, from the barrels, (which had been all stove,) were scattered in every
direction, and putrifying in the sun. After putting into the canoe some pork and a few articles
of clothing, we commenced our return;--but a strong head wind blowing, we had considerable
difficulty in getting back.

For some considerable time, nothing material occurred, and I led as monotonous and lonely a
life, as could well be imagined. It is true, I was surrounded by fellow beings; and had all
hope of ever seeing my country and friends again, been blasted, it is probable I might have
become more reconciled to my condition, but I very much doubt if ever perfectly so, as long
as reason and reflection held their empire over my mind. My books having been destroyed from
a superstitious notion of their possessing some supernatural power, I was left to brood over
my situation unpitied and alone.

Sometime in July, as I judged, Luckiair, son-in-law to my master, Ludjuan, came from a distant
part of the groupe, on a visit, and during the week he remained with us, we became much attached
to each other. When he told me, that on his return he should pass near the place where Hussey
lived, my anxiety to accompany him thus far, was so great, that after much persuasion, Ludjuan
gave his consent for me to go. On our way we stopped at the tent, and I procured for the last
time, a small quantity of the ship's provisions, although the meat was some of it in a very
decayed state.

In consequence of head winds, we were compelled to stop for the night upon a small Island,
where we found an uninhabited hut; and after cooking some meat, and baking some wet flour (for
it was no other) in the ashes, we took our mats into the hut, and remained until next day.
The wind continuing to blow fresh ahead, we gathered some green bread fruit, and cooked some
meat, in the same manner as they cook the largest of their fish, which is this.--A hole is
dug in the ground, and after it has been filled with wood, it is set on fire, and then covered
with stones. As the wood burns away, the heated stones fall to the bottom, which, when the
fire is out, are covered with a thick layer of green leaves, and then the meat or fish is placed
upon these leaves, and covered again in a careful and ingenious manner, and the whole covered
with earth. This preserves the juices of the fish, and in this way do they cook most of their
fish, with hot stones.

In the afternoon the weather proving more favourable, we left our encampment, and at sun down
arrived at a place called Tuckawoa; at which place we were treated with the greatest hospitality.
When we were about to leave, we were presented with bread fruit and cocoanuts in great abundance.
As we approached the place of Hussey's residence, I discovered him standing on the beach. Our
joy at meeting, I will not attempt to describe.--We had a short time, however, allowed us,
in which to relate our adventures, and condole with each other; for in an hour we were once
more separated; and we pursued our course for the residence of Luck-i-a-ir. After encamping
another night upon the beach, we at length arrived at the house of my conductor, which was
at a place called Dillybun. His family consisted of his wife and one child, whom we found busily
engaged in making a fishing net. When near night Luckiair and myself went out and gathered
some breadfruit, and after making a hearty meal, slept soundly upon our mats until morning.

A little before noon on the following day, two natives with their wives, arrived from Luj-no-ne-wort,
the place where Hussey lived, and brought me some flour, and a piece of meat. The natives would
eat of the bread, but would not taste of the meat. I remained here about a week, when Ludjuan
came for me. Nothing occurred of note, during our passage back to Milly, (the place of my residence,)
where I was welcomed by the natives with every demonstration of joy. I was sent for by one
of the chiefs, who asked many questions, and as a mark of his friendship for me, when I was
about to return, presented me with a kind of food called cha-kak-a. My present consisted of
a piece about two feet long and six inches in diameter. It is made of a kind of fruit common
among these Islands, and called by the inhabitants, bup. The fruit is scraped very fine, and
then laid in the sun until perfectly dry. Some of the leaves of the tree bearing the fruit,
are then wrapped round a piece of wood, which is the mould or former, and when securely tied
with strings, the former is withdrawn, and into this cylinder of leaves is put the bup, which
is of a sweet and pleasant taste.

At the urgent request of the natives, I now adopted their dress. Having but one pair of trowsers
and a shirt left, I laid them by for bad weather, and put on the costume of a Mulgrave Islander.
This dress, if it may be so called, consists in a broad belt fastened round the waist, from
which is suspended two broad tassels. The belt is made from the leaves of the bup tree, and
very ingeniously braided, to which is attached the tassels, which are made of a coarser material,
being the bark of a small vine, in their language called aht-aht. When the dress is worn, one
of the tassels hangs before and the other behind. The sun, as I expected, burned my skin very
much; which the natives could not account for, as nothing of the kind ever happened among themselves.

One day there was seen approaching a number of canoes, which we found were loaded with fish
for the chiefs, and to my great joy, Hussey was one of the passengers. My master accompanied
me to see him; and we anticipated at least a mental feast in each other's society. But of this
enjoyment we were deprived by the natives, who were always uneasy when we were conversing together.

I learned, however, from Hussey, that the natives had been kind to him; but before we had an
opportunity to communicate to each other our hopes and fears, he was hurried away. Having now
gained considerable knowledge of their language, I learned that they were afraid that if we
were permitted to hold converse, we should be the means of provoking the Supreme God, Anit,
to do them some injury.

The bread fruit beginning to ripen, we were all employed in gathering it; and I will endeavour
to give the reader an idea of the process of preserving it. After the fruit was gathered, the
outside rind was scraped off, and the seeds taken out; which are in size and appearance like
a chesnut. The fruit is then put into a net, the meshes of which are quite small, taken into
the salt water, and then beat with a club to pummice. It is then put into baskets made of cocoanut
leaves, and in about two days becomes like a rotten apple; after which the cores are taken
out, and the remainder after undergoing a process of kneading, is put into a hole in the ground,
the bottom and sides of which are neatly inlaid with leaves, and left about two days; when
it again undergoes the same process of kneading, and so on, until it becomes perfectly dry.--This
occupied us a number of days; and when we were engaged in gathering another, and a larger kind,
a small boy came running towards us, and exclaimed, "Uroit a-ro rayta mony la Wirrum," that
is, the chiefs are going to kill William. Ludjuan seeing that I understood what the boy said,
he said "reab-reab!" it is false. From the pains taken by the natives to keep Hussey and myself
apart, it was evident that they were in some measure afraid of us; but from what cause I had
yet to learn. After passing a sleepless night, we again in the morning pursued our labors,
but I was continually agitated by fearful apprehensions. About midnight I overheard some of
the natives in the tent talking about me, and I was now convinced that some injury was contemplated.
I then asked them what I was to be killed for. They seemed surprised when I told them I had
been listening; yet they denied that I was to be killed, and one of them who had frequently
manifested for me much friendship, came to my mat, and lay down with me, assuring me I should
not be injured.

The harvest being ended, a feast was had, and the chiefs were presented with considerable quantities
of this fruit, after it had been prepared and baked, which in taste resembled a sweet potatoe,
sending presents of it in all directions about the Island.

Having now but little work to do, I confined myself to the hut as much as possible, for I had
been observed for some time in a very suspicious manner. In a few days I was informed that
Hussey had been brought to the Island, and it was immediately suggested to my anxious mind,
that we were now to be sacrificed. Ludjuan went with me to see Hussey, but we were only allowed
a few moments conversation, when I was taken back to the hut, and communicated my fears to
my old mistress, who sympathized with me, but said if the chiefs had determined it, there was
no hope for me. I now was made acquainted with the cause of their dislike, which was no less
than a superstitious idea, that we were the cause of a malady, then raging to considerable extent!

This disease consisted in the swelling of the hands and feet, and in many instances the faces
of the youth swelled to such a degree, that they were blind for a number of days. Such a disease
they had never before been afflicted with. I had now an opportunity of most solemnly protesting
my total inability to injure them in this way, and as the disease had as yet caused no death,
I had a hope of being spared. I learned that a majority of the chiefs in council, were for
putting me to death, but one of them in particular, protested against it, fearing it might
be the cause of some worse calamity. As the vote to carry into effect any great measure, must
be unanimous, this chief was the means by his dissenting, of saving my life.

The afflicted began to recover, and my fears were greatly lessened; but as these people are
of a very unstable and changeful character, I could not entirely divest myself of apprehensions.

As soon as the harvest was completed, great preparations were made for the embarkation of the
chiefs, who were going to make their annual visit to the different Islands. They told me that
the King, whom they called La-boo-woole-yet, lived on an Island at the N. W. and if he did
not receive his yearly present of preserved bread fruit and pero, he would come with a great
party to fight them. Twelve canoes were put in the water, each one carrying a part of the provisions,
and manned by about two hundred persons.

After an absence of four or five days, during which time we exchanged civilities with numerous
chiefs, we returned to Milly, and hauled up the canoes. I now learned that the principal chief,
had said that it would have been wrong to kill me, firmly believing that the disease with which
they had been afflicted, had been sent by their God, as a punishment for having killed Payne
and the others! The malady having now entirely disappeared, they considered that crime as expiated!

About two days after my return, there was great excitement, in consequence of the appearance
of a ship! Seeing the natives were very much displeased at the circumstance, I concealed as
well as I could, the gladdening emotions which filled my breast; and, surrounded by about three
hundred of them, went round a point of land, when I distinctly saw a ship standing for the
land. The displeasure of the natives increased, they demanded to know where she came from,
how many men she had in her, &c. I was compelled to tell them that she was not coming to get
me, and even pretended to be afraid of her approach, which pleased them much, as they appeared
determined I should never leave them. At dusk she was so near the land, that I saw them shorten
sail, and fondly anticipated the hour of my deliverance as not far distant.

During the night, sleep was a stranger to me, and with the most anxious emotions did I anticipate
a welcome reception on board, and above all, a happy and joyful landing on my native shore.
In the morning, Ludjuan went with me to the beach, but alas! no ship was in sight. She had
vanished, and with her had fled all my hopes of a speedy deliverance. The kind reader can perhaps
form some idea of my disappointment.

The natives continued to be kind to me, and I was often complimented by them for my knowledge
of their language; and the appearance of my person had very much improved, my hair and beard
being long, and my skin turned nearly as black as their own! I was often importuned to have
my ears bored and stretched, but never gave my consent, which much surprised them, it being
a great mark of beauty. They begin at the age of four years, and perforate the lower part of
the ear, with a sharp pointed stick; and as the ear stretches, larger ones are inserted, until
it will hang nearly to their shoulders! The larger the ear, the more beauty the person possesses!

About a fortnight after I saw the ship pass, Hussey came with his master, on a visit. His disappointment
was great, and we could only cheer each other, by hoping for the best, and wait patiently the
pleasure of Heaven.

Hussey again left me, but we parted under less bodings of evil than before, for the kindness
of the natives began to increase, and their suspicions to be allayed.

I will here acquaint the reader with some of the means that I was induced to make use of, to
satisfy the cravings of appetite. As the Island now was in a state of almost entire famine,
my daily subsistence not amounting to more (upon an average) than the substance of one half
a cocoanut each day. The chief I lived with, having several cocoanut trees that he was very
choice of, and which bore plentifully; I would frequently, (after the natives in the hut were
all soundly asleep) take the opportunity and get out of the hut unperceived, and climb one
of those trees, (being very careful about making the least noise, or letting any of them drop
to the ground, whereby I might be detected,) and take the stem of one cocoanut in my mouth,
and one in each hand, and in that manner make out to slide down the tree, and would then (with
my prize) make the best of my way to a bunch of bushes, at a considerable distance from the
hut, where I would have a sumptuous repast; and if any remained, would secrete them, until
by hunger, I was drove to the necessity of revisiting that place.

I made a practice of this for some time, until the chief began to miss his cocoanuts, and keep
such watch, that I, for fear of being detected, was obliged to relinquish that mode of satisfying
my appetite.

A short time after this, I ventured to take a cocoanut off the ground where the natives had
recently buried a person; a deed which is strictly against the laws of their religious principles,
(if it can be said that they have any,) and a deed which the natives never dare to do, for
fear of displeasing their God (Anit) under a certain length of time after the person had been
buried, and then, the spot is only to be approached by males.

Not twenty-four hours had elapsed after I took the cocoanut, before they missed it, and coming
immediately to me, charged me with having taken it, telling me that not a native on the Island
would have dared so much as to handle it, for fear of the bad spirit, (Anit.)

I then told them that I had taken it, but pleading ignorance in the case, and promising never
to do any thing of the like again, and making it appear to them that I was surprised at what
they told me of the bad spirit, and also that I believed the same, they left me, after telling
me that if I ever handled another of them, it would not only bring sickness and death upon
myself, but would bring it upon the whole Island.

The reader will naturally suppose, that my mind was considerably relieved on their leaving
me so soon, fearing that something serious might be the result.

After this I was very careful how I did any thing that I thought would in the least displease,
or irritate them, and made myself content with the portion they saw fit to give me.

I frequently fired a musket to please them, by their request; and told them if they would let
me have some powder, I would fire off the swivel, left by the Globe. They consented, and collected
in great numbers, and after I had loaded the gun with a heavy charge, I told them they had
better stand back. They said I must set her on fire, and tell them when she was going off,
and they would run! I however, touched her off, when they instantly fell on their faces in
the greatest panick. When their fears had subsided, they set up howling and yelling with ecstacy!

They said, if they should have a battle, I must carry that gun with me, which would alone vanquish
their enemies!

We were visited by eight or ten canoes, from a distant Island, called Alloo. They came to exchange
presents with our chiefs, and very soon a great quantity of pero, &c. was baked, and having
been inspected by the chiefs, to see that it was in a proper state to be presented to their
visitors, it was given them to eat.

As these people had never seen me before, I was much annoyed by them. During their stay, I
was constantly surrounded; my skin felt of, and often became the sport of the more witty, because
my skin was not of so dark a hue as their own, and more especially, as my ears remained in
the same form, as when nature gave them to me. These visitors, to my great satisfaction, did
not remain long with us.

Their mode of anchoring their canoes is singular. One of them takes the end of a line, and
diving to the bottom, secures it to a rock; and in the same way do they dive down to cast it
off. I have seen them do this in five fathoms of water.

CHAPTER VI.

It was not until the 23d of December, 1825, that the prospects of being relieved from my disagreeable
situation began to brighten. Early in the morning of that day, I was awakened by a hooting
and yelling of the natives, who said, a vessel had anchored at the head of the Island. They
seemed alarmed, and I need not assure the reader, that my feelings were of a contrary nature.
Their God was immediately consulted, as to the measures to pursue; but as I was not allowed
to be present when he was invoked, I cannot say what was the form of this ceremony, except
that cocoanut leaves were used. Their God, however, approved the plan, which was, that they
should go to the vessel, or near her, and swim on board, a few at a time, until two hundred
were on board, and then a signal was to be given, when they were to throw the persons on board
into the water, and kill them. Two large canoes which would carry fifty men each, were put
in readiness, but at first they refused to let me accompany them, fearing that I would inform
of their having killed our men, and they would be punished. I assured them that the vessel,
having but two masts, did not belong to my nation, and I was certain I could not speak their
language.

They at length consented for me to go. We arrived within a few miles of the vessel at night,
and early the following morning, were joined by a number of canoes, which made in all two hundred
men. It being squally in the forenoon, we remained where we were, but when it cleared up, the
yells of the Indians announced the approach of the vessel. I had only time to see that it was
really an armed schooner, when I was secreted with their women, about forty in number, in a
hut near the shore, and the women had orders to watch me close, that I did not get away.

A boat at this time from the schooner, was seen approaching the shore. She landed at about
a hundred yards distant from where I was confined; but it being near night, I soon found she
was making the best of her way towards the schooner. Night came, and I was sent for by the
principal chief, and questioned closely concerning the schooner. My fears and apprehensions
were now excited to a degree beyond human expression, and the kind reader will pardon all attempts
to express them.

The natives seeing the whites so bold, excited in them a fear which induced them to flee the
Island. Accordingly, about midnight, the canoes were launched, and I was carried to a remote
part of the Island, a distance of about 40 miles, where I remained until my fortunate escape.

29th. Early in the morning, we discovered a boat under sail, standing directly for the place
where we were; the natives were considerably agitated with fear, and engaged in planning some
method by which to overcome the people in the boat, if they should come where we were; and,
as I expected, the natives would hide me, as they had heretofore done, I thought it best to
offer my services to assist them--I said I would aid them in fighting the boat's crew--and
that, as I could talk with them, I would go to them, in advance of the natives, deceive the
crew, and prevail on them to come on shore and sit down, and for us to appear friendly till
in possession of their arms, then rise upon the crew and kill them without difficulty or hazard.
Some of the natives suspected that I should revolt to the other party, and turn the current
of destruction on them; but the chief Luttuon said he liked my plan much, and would inquire
of their God, and if he found that I should be true to them, my plan should be adopted. The
inquiry resulted in favor of my plan, and they said I might go. The boat was now within one
hundred rods of the shore, and Luttuon called me to him, oiled my head and body with cocoanut
oil, and gave me my charge how to conduct. I pledged myself to obey his orders. My joy at this
moment was great, as the boat anchored near where we were. I went to the beach, accompanied
by about one hundred of the smartest natives, whom I charged not to manifest a hostile appearance.
I hailed the boat in English, and told the crew what the calculations of the natives were,
and not to land unless they were well armed. The officer of the boat replied that he would
be among them directly; and in a few minutes they landed, (13 men and 2 officers,) and when
within a rod of us, I ran to Lieut. H. Paulding, who took me by the hand, asked if I was one
of the Globe's crew, and inquired my name, &c. &c. We then retreated to the boat, facing the
natives, who all kept their seats, excepting the one I called father, who came down among us,
and took hold of me to carry me back, but desisted on having a pistol presented to his breast.

Lieut. Hiram Paulding, of the Navy, for such was the name of this gentlemanly officer, informed
me that the vessel, was the U. S. Schooner Dolphin, sent on purpose to rescue us, and commanded
by Lieut. Com't. John Percival.

After expressing my gratitude as well as I was able, to Heaven, which had furnished the means
of my deliverance, I acquainted Mr. Paulding, that the only survivor of the Globe, except myself,
was Cyrus M. Hussey; who was held in bondage upon a neighbouring Island. After the boat's crew
had taken some refreshment, we left the landing place, and soon arrived at the place where
Hussey lived. The natives had concealed him, but after some threatenings from us, restored
him, and we were received on board of the Dolphin, and treated in the most kind and hospitable
manner.

Our hair was now cut, and we were shaved. Our appearance must have been truly ludicrous, our
hair having been growing twenty-two months, untouched by the razor or scissors.

