When, in her opinion, the peril was at least lessened, she called for Michael and commanded
him to throw the "powder" away into some remote spot, or, better still, to immerse it in water;
after which she adjusted her cap and returned proudly to the drawing-room, murmuring as she
went, "At least I can say that they are well looked after."

When Papa issued from his room and took us to see Grandmamma we found Mimi sitting by the window
and glancing with a grave, mysterious, official expression towards the door. In her hand she
was holding something carefully wrapped in paper. I guessed that that something was the small
shot, and that Grandmamma had been informed of the occurrence. In the room also were the maidservant
Gasha (who, to judge by her angry flushed face, was in a state of great irritation) and Doctor
Blumenthal--the latter a little man pitted with smallpox, who was endeavouring by tacit, pacificatory
signs with his head and eyes to reassure the perturbed Gasha. Grandmamma was sitting a little
askew and playing that variety of "patience" which is called "The Traveller"--two unmistakable
signs of her displeasure.

"How are you to-day, Mamma?" said Papa as he kissed her hand respectfully. "Have you had a
good night?"

"Yes, very good, my dear; you KNOW that I always enjoy sound health," replied Grandmamma in
a tone implying that Papa's inquiries were out of place and highly offensive. "Please give
me a clean pocket-handkerchief," she added to Gasha.

"I HAVE given you one, madam," answered Gasha, pointing to the snow-white cambric handkerchief
which she had just laid on the arm of Grandmamma's chair.

"No, no; it's a nasty, dirty thing. Take it away and bring me a CLEAN one, my dear."

Gasha went to a cupboard and slammed the door of it back so violently that every window rattled.
Grandmamma glared angrily at each of us, and then turned her attention to following the movements
of the servant. After the latter had presented her with what I suspected to be the same handkerchief
as before, Grandmamma continued:

"And when do you mean to cut me some snuff, my dear?"

"When I have time."

"What do you say?"

"To-day."

"If you don't want to continue in my service you had better say so at once. I would have sent
you away long ago had I known that you wished it."

"It wouldn't have broken my heart if you had!" muttered the woman in an undertone.

Here the doctor winked at her again, but she returned his gaze so firmly and wrathfully that
he soon lowered it and went on playing with his watch-key.

"You see, my dear, how people speak to me in my own house!" said Grandmamma to Papa when Gasha
had left the room grumbling.

"Well, Mamma, I will cut you some snuff myself," replied Papa, though evidently at a loss how
to proceed now that he had made this rash promise.

"No, no, I thank you. Probably she is cross because she knows that no one except herself can
cut the snuff just as I like it. Do you know, my dear," she went on after a pause, "that your
children very nearly set the house on fire this morning?"

Papa gazed at Grandmamma with respectful astonishment.

"Yes, they were playing with something or another. Tell him the story," she added to Mimi.

Papa could not help smiling as he took the shot in his hand.

"This is only small shot, Mamma," he remarked, "and could never be dangerous."

"I thank you, my dear, for your instruction, but I am rather too old for that sort of thing."

"Nerves, nerves!" whispered the doctor.

Papa turned to us and asked us where we had got the stuff, and how we could dare to play with it.

"Don't ask THEM, ask that useless 'Uncle,' rather," put in Grandmamma, laying a peculiar stress
upon the word "UNCLE." "What else is he for?"

"Woloda says that Karl Ivanitch gave him the powder himself," declared Mimi.

"Then you can see for yourself what use he is," continued Grandmamma. "And where IS he--this
precious 'Uncle'? How is one to get hold of him? Send him here."

"He has gone an errand for me," said Papa.

"That is not at all right," rejoined Grandmamma. "He ought ALWAYS to be here. True, the children
are yours, not mine, and I have nothing to do with them, seeing that you are so much cleverer
than I am; yet all the same I think it is time we had a regular tutor for them, and not this
'Uncle' of a German--a stupid fellow who knows only how to teach them rude manners and Tyrolean
songs! Is it necessary, I ask you, that they should learn Tyrolean songs? However, there is
no one for me to consult about it, and you must do just as you like."

The word "NOW" meant "NOW THAT THEY HAVE NO MOTHER," and suddenly awakened sad recollections
in Grandmamma's heart. She threw a glance at the snuff-box bearing Mamma's portrait and sighed.

"I thought of all this long ago," said Papa eagerly, "as well as taking your advice on the
subject. How would you like St. Jerome to superintend their lessons?"

"Oh, I think he would do excellently, my friend," said Grandmamma in a mollified tone, "He
is at least a tutor comme il faut, and knows how to instruct des enfants de bonne maison. He
is not a mere 'Uncle' who is good only for taking them out walking."

"Very well; I will talk to him to-morrow," said Papa. And, sure enough, two days later saw
Karl Ivanitch forced to retire in favour of the young Frenchman referred to.

VIII. KARL IVANITCH'S HISTORY

THE evening before the day when Karl was to leave us for ever, he was standing (clad, as usual,
in his wadded dressing-gown and red cap) near the bed in his room, and bending down over a
trunk as he carefully packed his belongings.

His behaviour towards us had been very cool of late, and he had seemed to shrink from all contact
with us. Consequently, when I entered his room on the present occasion, he only glanced at
me for a second and then went on with his occupation. Even though I proceeded to jump on to
his bed (a thing hitherto always forbidden me to do), he said not a word; and the idea that
he would soon be scolding or forgiving us no longer--no longer having anything to do with us--reminded
me vividly of the impending separation. I felt grieved to think that he had ceased to love
us and wanted to show him my grief.

"Will you let me help you?" I said, approaching him.

He looked at me for a moment and turned away again. Yet the expression of pain in his eyes
showed that his coldness was not the result of indifference, but rather of sincere and concentrated
sorrow.

"God sees and knows everything," he said at length, raising himself to his full height and
drawing a deep sigh. "Yes, Nicolinka," he went on, observing, the expression of sincere pity
on my face, "my fate has been an unhappy one from the cradle, and will continue so to the grave.
The good that I have done to people has always been repaid with evil; yet, though I shall receive
no reward here, I shall find one THERE" (he pointed upwards). "Ah, if only you knew my whole
story, and all that I have endured in this life!--I who have been a bootmaker, a soldier, a
deserter, a factory hand, and a teacher! Yet now--now I am nothing, and, like the Son of Man,
have nowhere to lay my head." Sitting down upon a chair, he covered his eyes with his hand.

Seeing that he was in the introspective mood in which a man pays no attention to his listener
as he cons over his secret thoughts, I remained silent, and, seating myself upon the bed, continued
to watch his kind face.

"You are no longer a child. You can understand things now, and I will tell you my whole story
and all that I have undergone. Some day, my children, you may remember the old friend who loved
you so much--"

He leant his elbow upon the table by his side, took a pinch of snuff, and, in the peculiarly
measured, guttural tone in which he used to dictate us our lessons, began the story of his career.

Since he many times in later years repeated the whole to me again--always in the same order,
and with the same expressions and the same unvarying intonation--I will try to render it literally,
and without omitting the innumerable grammatical errors into which he always strayed when speaking
in Russian. Whether it was really the history of his life, or whether it was the mere product
of his imagination--that is to say, some narrative which he had conceived during his lonely
residence in our house, and had at last, from endless repetition, come to believe in himself--or
whether he was adorning with imaginary facts the true record of his career, I have never quite
been able to make out. On the one hand, there was too much depth of feeling and practical consistency
in its recital for it to be wholly incredible, while, on the other hand, the abundance of poetical
beauty which it contained tended to raise doubts in the mind of the listener.

"Me vere very unhappy from ze time of my birth," he began with a profound sigh. "Ze noble blot
of ze Countess of Zomerblat flows in my veins. Me vere born six veek after ze vetting. Ze man
of my Mutter (I called him 'Papa') vere farmer to ze Count von Zomerblat. He coult not forget
my Mutter's shame, ant loaft me not. I had a youngster broser Johann ant two sister, pot me
vere strange petween my own family. Ven Johann mate several silly trick Papa sayt, 'Wit sis
chilt Karl I am never to have one moment tranquil!' and zen he scoltet and ponishet me. Ven
ze sister quarrellet among zemselves Papa sayt, 'Karl vill never be one opedient poy,' ant
still scoltet ant ponishet me. My goot Mamma alone loaft ant tenteret me. Often she sayt to
me, 'Karl, come in my room,' ant zere she kisset me secretly. 'Poorly, poorly Karl!' she sayt.
'Nopoty loaf you, pot I will not exchange you for somepoty in ze worlt, One zing your Mutter
pegs you, to rememper,' sayt she to me, 'learn vell, ant be efer one honest man; zen Got will
not forsake you.' Ant I triet so to become. Ven my fourteen year hat expiret, ant me coult
partake of ze Holy Sopper, my Mutter sayt to my Vater, 'Karl is one pig poy now, Kustaf. Vat
shall we do wis him?' Ant Papa sayt, 'Me ton't know.' Zen Mamma sayt, 'Let us give him to town
at Mister Schultzen's, and he may pea Schumacher,' ant my Vater sayt, 'Goot!' Six year ant
seven mons livet I in town wis ze Mister Shoemaker, ant he loaft me. He sayt, 'Karl are one
goot vorkman, ant shall soon become my Geselle.' Pot-man makes ze proposition, ant Got ze deposition.
In ze year 1796 one conscription took place, ant each which vas serviceable, from ze eighteens
to ze twenty-first year, hat to go to town.

"My Fater and my broser Johann come to town, ant ve go togezer to throw ze lot for which shoult
pe Soldat. Johann drew ze fatal nomper, and me vas not necessary to pe Soldat. Ant Papa sayt,
'I have only vun son, ant wis him I must now separate!'

"Den I take his hant, ant says, 'Why say you so, Papa? Come wis me, ant I will say you somesing.'
Ant Papa come, ant we seat togezer at ze publics-house, ant me sayt, 'Vaiter, give us one Bierkrug,'
ant he gives us one. We trink altogezer, and broser Johann also trink. 'Papa,' sayt me, 'ton't
say zat you have only one son, ant wis it you must separate, My heart was breaking ven you
say sis. Broser Johann must not serve; ME shall pe Soldat. Karl is for nopoty necessary, and
Karl shall pe Soldat.'

"'You is one honest man, Karl,' sayt Papa, ant kiss me. Ant me was Soldat."

IX. CONTINUATION OF KARL'S NARRATIVE

"Zat was a terrible time, Nicolinka," continued Karl Ivanitch, "ze time of Napoleon. He vanted
to conquer Germany, ant we protected our Vaterland to ze last trop of plot. Me vere at Ulm,
me vere at Austerlitz, me vere at Wagram."

"Did you really fight?" I asked with a gaze of astonishment "Did you really kill anybody?"

Karl instantly reassured me on this point,

"Vonce one French grenadier was left behint, ant fell to ze grount. I sprang forvarts wis my
gon, ant vere about to kill him, aber der Franzose warf sein Gewehr hin und rief, 'Pardon'--ant
I let him loose.

"At Wagram, Napoleon cut us open, ant surrountet us in such a way as zere vas no helping. Sree
days hat we no provisions, ant stoot in ze vater op to ze knees. Ze evil Napoleon neiser let
us go loose nor catchet us.

"On ze fours day zey took us prisoners--zank Got! ant sent us to one fortress. Upon me vas
one blue trousers, uniforms of very goot clos, fifteen of Thalers, ant one silver clock which
my Vater hat given me, Ze Frans Soldaten took from me everysing. For my happiness zere vas
sree tucats on me which my Mamma hat sewn in my shirt of flannel. Nopoty fount zem.

"I liket not long to stay in ze fortresses, ant resoluted to ron away. Von day, von pig holitay,
says I to the sergeant which hat to look after us, 'Mister Sergeant, to-day is a pig holitay,
ant me vants to celeprate it. Pring here, if you please, two pottle Mateira, ant we shall trink
zem wis each oser.' Ant ze sergeant says, 'Goot!' Ven ze sergeant pring ze Mateira ant we trink
it out to ze last trop, I taket his hant ant says, 'Mister Sergeant, perhaps you have still
one Vater and one Mutter?' He says, 'So I have, Mister Mayer.' 'My Vater ant Mutter not seen
me eight year,' I goes on to him, 'ant zey know not if I am yet alive or if my bones be reposing
in ze grave. Oh, Mister Sergeant, I have two tucats which is in my shirt of flannel. Take zem,
ant let me loose! You will pe my penefactor, ant my Mutter will be praying for you all her
life to ze Almighty Got!'

"Ze sergeant emptiet his glass of Mateira, ant says, 'Mister Mayer, I loaf and pity you very
much, pot you is one prisoner, ant I one soldat.' So I take his hant ant says, 'Mister Sergeant!'

"Ant ze sergeant says, 'You is one poor man, ant I will not take your money, pot I will help
you. Ven I go to sleep, puy one pail of pranty for ze Soldaten, ant zey will sleep. Me will
not look after you.' Sis was one goot man. I puyet ze pail of pranty, ant ven ze Soldaten was
trunken me tresset in one olt coat, ant gang in silence out of ze doon.

"I go to ze wall, ant will leap down, pot zere is vater pelow, ant I will not spoil my last
tressing, so I go to ze gate.

"Ze sentry go up and town wis one gon, ant look at me. 'Who goes zere?' ant I was silent. 'Who
goes zere ze second time?' ant I was silent. 'Who goes zere ze third time?' ant I ron away,
I sprang in ze vater, climp op to ze oser site, ant walk on.

"Ze entire night I ron on ze vay, pot ven taylight came I was afrait zat zey woult catch me,
ant I hit myself in ze high corn. Zere I kneelet town, zanket ze Vater in Heaven for my safety,
ant fall asleep wis a tranquil feeling.

"I wakenet op in ze evening, ant gang furser. At once one large German carriage, wis two raven-black
horse, came alongside me. In ze carriage sit one well-tresset man, smoking pipe, ant look at
me. I go slowly, so zat ze carriage shall have time to pass me, pot I go slowly, ant ze carriage
go slowly, ant ze man look at me. I go quick, ant ze carriage go quick, ant ze man stop its
two horses, ant look at me. 'Young man,' says he, 'where go you so late?' I says, 'I go to
Frankfort.' 'Sit in ze carriage--zere is room enough, ant I will trag you,' he says. 'Bot why
have you nosing about you? Your boots is dirty, ant your beart not shaven.' I seated wis him,
ant says, 'Ich bin one poor man, ant I would like to pusy myself wis somesing in a manufactory.
My tressing is dirty because I fell in ze mud on ze roat.'

"'You tell me ontruse, young man,' says he. 'Ze roat is kvite dry now.' I was silent. 'Tell
me ze whole truse,' goes on ze goot man--'who you are, ant vere you go to? I like your face,
ant ven you is one honest man, so I will help you.' Ant I tell all.

"'Goot, young man!' he says. 'Come to my manufactory of rope, ant I will give you work ant
tress ant money, ant you can live wis os.' I says, 'Goot!'

"I go to ze manufactory of rope, ant ze goot man says to his voman, 'Here is one yong man who
defented his Vaterland, ant ron away from prisons. He has not house nor tresses nor preat.
He will live wis os. Give him clean linen, ant norish him.'

"I livet one ant a half year in ze manufactory of rope, ant my lantlort loaft me so much zat
he would not let me loose. Ant I felt very goot.

"I were zen handsome man--yong, of pig stature, with blue eyes and romische nose--ant Missis
L-- (I like not to say her name--she was ze voman of my lantlort) was yong ant handsome laty.
Ant she fell in loaf wis me."

Here Karl Ivanitch made a long pause, lowered his kindly blue eyes, shook his head quietly,
and smiled as people always do under the influence of a pleasing recollection.

"Yes," he resumed as he leant back in his arm-chair and adjusted his dressing-gown, "I have
experiencet many sings in my life, pot zere is my witness,"--here he pointed to an image of
the Saviour, embroidered on wool, which was hanging over his bed--"zat nopoty in ze worlt can
say zat Karl Ivanitch has been one dishonest man, I would not repay black ingratitude for ze
goot which Mister L-- dit me, ant I resoluted to ron away. So in ze evening, ven all were asleep,
I writet one letter to my lantlort, ant laid it on ze table in his room. Zen I taket my tresses,
tree Thaler of money, ant go mysteriously into ze street. Nopoty have seen me, ant I go on
ze roat."

X. CONCLUSION OF KARL'S NARRATIVE

"I had not seen my Mamma for nine year, ant I know not whether she lived or whether her bones
had long since lain in ze dark grave. Ven I come to my own country and go to ze town I ask,
'Where live Kustaf Mayer who was farmer to ze Count von Zomerblat?' ant zey answer me, 'Graf
Zomerblat is deat, ant Kustaf Mayer live now in ze pig street, ant keep a public-house.' So
I tress in my new waistcoat and one noble coat which ze manufacturist presented me, arranged
my hairs nice, ant go to ze public-house of my Papa. Sister Mariechen vas sitting on a pench,
and she ask me what I want. I says, 'Might I trink one glass of pranty?' ant she says, 'Vater,
here is a yong man who wish to trink one glass of pranty.' Ant Papa says, 'Give him ze glass.'
I set to ze table, trink my glass of pranty, smoke my pipe, ant look at Papa, Mariechen, ant
Johann (who also come into ze shop). In ze conversation Papa says, 'You know, perhaps, yong
man, where stants our army?' and I say, 'I myself am come from ze army, ant it stants now at
Wien.' 'Our son,' says Papa, 'is a Soldat, ant now is it nine years since he wrote never one
wort, and we know not whether he is alive or dead. My voman cry continually for him.' I still
fumigate the pipe, ant say, 'What was your son's name, and where servet he? Perhaps I may know
him.' 'His name was Karl Mayer, ant he servet in ze Austrian Jagers.' 'He were of pig stature,
ant a handsome man like yourself,' puts in Mariechen. I say, 'I know your Karl.' 'Amalia,'
exclaimet my Vater. 'Come here! Here is yong man which knows our Karl!'--ant my dear Mutter
comes out from a back door. I knew her directly. 'You know our Karl?' says she, ant looks at
me, ant, white all over, trembles. 'Yes, I haf seen him,' I says, without ze corage to look
at her, for my heart did almost burst. 'My Karl is alive?' she cry. 'Zen tank Got! Vere is
he, my Karl? I woult die in peace if I coult see him once more--my darling son! Bot Got will
not haf it so.' Then she cried, and I coult no longer stant it. 'Darling Mamma!' I say, 'I
am your son, I am your Karl!'--and she fell into my arms."

Karl Ivanitch covered his eyes, and his lips were quivering.

"'Mutter,' sagte ich, 'ich bin ihr Sohn, ich bin ihr Karl!'--und sie sturtzte mir in die Arme!'"
he repeated, recovering a little and wiping the tears from his eyes.

"Bot Got did not wish me to finish my tays in my own town. I were pursuet by fate. I livet
in my own town only sree mons. One Suntay I sit in a coffee-house, ant trinket one pint of
Pier, ant fumigated my pipe, ant speaket wis some frients of Politik, of ze Emperor Franz,
of Napoleon, of ze war--ant anypoty might say his opinion. But next to us sits a strange chentleman
in a grey Uberrock, who trink coffee, fumigate the pipe, ant says nosing. Ven the night watchman
shoutet ten o'clock I taket my hat, paid ze money, and go home. At ze middle of ze night some
one knock at ze door. I rise ant says, 'Who is zere?' 'Open!' says someone. I shout again,
'First say who is zere, ant I will open.' 'Open in the name of the law!' say the someone behint
the door. I now do so. Two Soldaten wis gons stant at ze door, ant into ze room steps ze man
in ze grey Uberrock, who had sat with us in ze coffeehouse. He were Spion! 'Come wis me,' says
ze Spion, 'Very goot!' say I. I dresset myself in boots, trousers, ant coat, ant go srough
ze room. Ven I come to ze wall where my gon hangs I take it, ant says, 'You are a Spion, so
defent you!' I give one stroke left, one right, ant one on ze head. Ze Spion lay precipitated
on ze floor! Zen I taket my cloak-bag ant money, ant jompet out of ze vintow. I vent to Ems,
where I was acquainted wis one General Sasin, who loaft me, givet me a passport from ze Embassy,
ant taket me to Russland to learn his chiltren. Ven General Sasin tiet, your Mamma callet for
me, ant says, 'Karl Ivanitch, I gif you my children. Loaf them, ant I will never leave you,
ant will take care for your olt age.' Now is she teat, ant all is forgotten! For my twenty
year full of service I most now go into ze street ant seek for a try crust of preat for my
olt age! Got sees all sis, ant knows all sis. His holy will be done! Only-only, I yearn for
you, my children!"--and Karl drew me to him, and kissed me on the forehead.

XI. ONE MARK ONLY

The year of mourning over, Grandmamma recovered a little from her grief, and once more took
to receiving occasional guests, especially children of the same age as ourselves.

On the 13th of December--Lubotshka's birthday--the Princess Kornakoff and her daughters, with
Madame Valakhin, Sonetchka, Ilinka Grap, and the two younger Iwins, arrived at our house before
luncheon.

Though we could hear the sounds of talking, laughter, and movements going on in the drawing-room,
we could not join the party until our morning lessons were finished. The table of studies in
the schoolroom said, "Lundi, de 2 a 3, maitre d'Histoire et de Geographie," and this infernal
maitre d'Histoire we must await, listen to, and see the back of before we could gain our liberty.
Already it was twenty minutes past two, and nothing was to be heard of the tutor, nor yet anything
to be seen of him in the street, although I kept looking up and down it with the greatest impatience
and with an emphatic longing never to see the maitre again.

"I believe he is not coming to-day," said Woloda, looking up for a moment from his lesson-book.

"I hope he is not, please the Lord!" I answered, but in a despondent tone. "Yet there he DOES
come, I believe, all the same!"

"Not he! Why, that is a GENTLEMAN," said Woloda, likewise looking out of the window, "Let us
wait till half-past two, and then ask St. Jerome if we may put away our books."

