Then suddenly came the crash. She left her husband, in company with CHARLIE FITZHUBERT, the
heir presumptive to the wealthy earldom of Battersea. On the following day Mr. PARDOE blew
out his brains, leaving ten thousand pounds of debt and three young children. Six months afterwards
the venerable Dean died, and sentimental people spoke of a broken heart. Then the Earl of BATTERSEA,
in a fit of indignation, married, and was blessed with a son, the present Earl. CHARLIE FITZHUBERT
married HERMIONE, but they are as poor as curates, and he hates her. I saw her two days ago
in a shabby hired carriage. She is getting prematurely old, and grey, and wrinkled, and everybody
avoids her, except her sister SOPHY, who still visits her, and suffers her ill-humour.

Charming story, isn't it? I shall write again soon.

Yours, in the meantime, DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

NIGHT-MAILING.--"Night Mail between London and Paris" has been recently announced in all the
papers as now ready and willing to take night-mailers from Victoria, L.C. & D., to the French
Capital. It is to be a Third-class Night Mail, though a Knight of the First Class can, of course,
travel by it should he be so disposed. Thirty shillings through fare for "a single;" but as
the tariff doesn't explicitly inform us whether the passenger will be asked the question, "Married
or single?" and so be charged accordingly, we may presume that a margin is left for a little
surprise. The train of Night Mails--a kind of gay bachelor train, no females being of the party--is
to start at 8:15 P.M., and to be in Paris at 5:50 A.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRAWING THE BADGER.

(A Natural History Note.)

The Badger (Meles-Taxus) is at once one of the most inoffensive and (in one sense) offensive
of our few remaining British Carnivora. He is described by NAPIER of Merchiston, in his Book
of Nature and of Man, as a "quiet nocturnal beast, but if much 'badgered' becoming obstinate,
and fighting to the last, in which it is a type of a large class of Britons, who like to be
let alone, but when ill used can fight."

That great new authority on Natural History, Mr. G.A. HENTY (author of Those Other Animals),
should be able to tell us much about the Badger. Therewith he would be able, in his own favourite
fashion, to "point a moral" (against the Demogorgon Democracy), and "adorn a tale" (of laboured
waggery). He might find the subject as suggestive of sardonic chaff as American women and Republican
institutions.

What says the popular WOOD? He describes the Badger as "slow and clumsy in its actions," and
as "rolling along so awkwardly that it may easily be mistaken for a young pig in the dusk of
the evening." Woe, however, to whomsoever does take the creature for "a young pig." "Being
naturally as harmless an animal as can be imagined, it is a terrible antagonist when provoked
to use the means of defence with which it is so well provided."

  We tax the patience of poor Meles-Taxus,
  Until he turns with tooth and claws and whacks us.
  The natural home of Taxus--the Exchequer--
  Harbours a creature that keeps up its pecker.

"For the purpose of so-called 'sport,' the Badger used to be captured and put into a cage ready
to be tormented; at the cruel will of every ruffian who might chose to risk his dog against
the sharp teeth of the captive animal."

This particular sort of "sport" is a little out of date. But "drawing a Badger" is not unknown
even in these humanitarian days. Dogs will sometimes voluntarily rush in to risk their hides
and muzzles against the aforesaid sharp teeth, &c. Look at those in the picture!

The two small, if aggressive, terriers seem unequally matched against the "clumsy" but strong-jawed
and terribly-toothed Badger. They have drawn him, indeed, out of his hole, and one of them,
at least, seems rather sorry for it, if you may judge by the way in which he turns tail and
makes for his protector, the big Bull-Terrier. The ventripotent broken-haired tyke looks more
valorous--for the moment. Yap! yap! yap! Meles-Taxus takes little notice of him, however. His
eyes are on that sturdy specimen of Canis familiaris there, whose bold eyes in turn are on
him. Both, perhaps, experience--

  That stern joy which warriors feel
  In foemen worthy of their steel."

"Drawn by those two tiny yelpers? Not a bit of it! But you, my complacent canine Colossus--come
on if you dare!" And he does dare, evidently. Whether he'll regret his daring remains to be seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Memory of Milton.

  MILTON forgotten? Nay, my BESANT, nay;
  Not wholly, even in this petty day,
  When learning snips, when criticism snaps,
  And the great bulk of readers feed on scraps.
  Still, still he finds his "audience fit, though few,"
  The rest forget not since they never knew.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Off-Portsmouth Phrase-Book.

Have you caught a fish?

No, but I have bagged a cannon-ball.

Is the sea too rough for your boat?

No, the sea is not too rough, but the Torpedoes are decidedly embarrassing.

Is that a pretty shell that you are going to carry home to your children?

No, it is a live one, that, if it bursts a yard nearer, will blow us into smithereens.

Do you propose returning to your lodging to-night?

That is a matter that will be decided by the Commander of the nearest practising gun-boat.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CUTTING REMARKS.

Mr. HENRY AUTHOR JONES has taken a theatre wherein to play his own plays to his own taste.
On the first night of The Crusaders this taste was not exactly the taste of the audience. Mr.
HENRY AUTHOR JONES seemed to object to be tied to time, and the result was the prompt appearance
of that terrible conqueror of things terrestrial, General Boredom. Since the initial performance,
it is reported that matters have gone on more smoothly. According to the "usual sources of
information" the dramatist has been cheered on leaving his theatre, and heartily congratulated.
On one occasion he actually supplemented his piece with a speech! Apparently he was under the
impression that there could not be too much of a good thing--JONES for choice! It may be that
since the first performance, there has been some curtailment made in the play. To judge from
appearances it was a question of cutting--either the author the play, or the public the theatre!

       *       *       *       *       *

QUITE A NEW SPEC.--We have just received a prospectus of a Company entitled "The Monarch Insurance
Society." Of course, all the Crowned Heads of Europe will be in it. We haven't yet read it,
the title being sufficient for the present. Ça donne à penser. Will it provide New Monarchs
for old ones? Will it give good sovereigns in exchange for bad ones? If so--where will the
profit come in?

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH AS SHE IS "WRIT."

The Standard's own Vienna Correspondent, when reporting the unpleasant incident in the life
of the Duc d'ORLÉANS, told us how the Prince, on unwittingly "accepting service," said to the
astute lawyer's clerk, "Mais, Monsieur, ce n'est pas le moment." To which the clerk replied,
"also in French," says the Standard, "One time is as good as another." But why was not the
lawyer's clerk's French as she is spoke given as well as that of M. le Duc? And how much more
telling it would have been had M. le Duc been served well and faithfully by a clerk like Perker's
Mr. Lowten, fresh, very fresh, from a carouse at the "Magpie and Stump," or even by one of
Messrs. Dodson and Fog's young men who enjoyed themselves so much when "a twigging" of the
virtuous Mr. Pickwick.

"Mais, Monsieur, ce n'est pas le moment," says the Duke, to which our Mr. Lowten would have
replied in Magpie-and-Stumping French, "Eggskewsy moy, Mossoo, le Dook, ung Tom is aussy bong
qu'ung autre. Mossoo ler Dook ar maintenong pérusé ler documong; voici le copy et voilà two.
Bonsoir, il faut que je l'accroche."

Whereupon he would have "hooked it," as it appears this particular lawyer's clerk did, and
was not seen again. No doubt he joined a circle of admiring friends in the legal neighbourhood
(some Magpies-and-Stumps still exist), where, over a glass and a cigar, he recounted the merry
tale of how he had served a Duke.

       *       *       *       *       *

The relation of Hypnotiser to the Hypnotised at the Aquarium may be simply described as "GERMANE
to the subject.'

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG AND CHORUS FOR THE COUNTY COUNCIL ON NEXT DEBATE ON THE WATER SUPPLY--"Young BENN he was
a nice young man."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS

No. XIV.

SCENE--Gardens belonging to the Hôtel du Parc, Lugano. Time, afternoon; the orchestra is tuning
up in a kiosk. CULCHARD is seated on a bench in the shade, keeping an anxious eye upon the
opposite door.

Culch. (to himself). She said she had a headache, and made her father and VAN BOODELER go out
on the lake without her. But she certainly gave me to understand that she might come out when
the band played, if she felt better. The question is, whether she means to feel better or not.
She is the most tantalising girl! I don't know what to make of her. Not a single reference,
as yet, to that last talk we had at Bingen. I must see if I can't recall it to her memory--if
she comes. I'll wait here, on the chance of it--we are not likely to be dis--. Confound it
all--PODBURY! (with suppressed irritation as PODBURY comes up). Well, do you want anything
in particular?

Podb. (cheerfully, as he sits down). Only the pleasure of your society, old chap. How nicely
you do put things!

Culch. The--er--fact is, I can't promise to be a particularly lively companion just now.

Podb. Not by way of a change? Ah, well, it's a pity--but I must put up with you as you are,
I suppose. You see--(with a grin)--I've got that vow to work out.

Culch. Possibly--but I haven't. As I've already told you--I retire.

Podb. Wobbled back to Miss TROTTER again, eh? Matter of taste, of course, but, for my part,
I think your first impression of her was nearer the truth--she's not what I call a highly cultivated
sort of girl, y' know.

Culch. You are naturally exacting on that point, but have the goodness to leave my first impressions
alone, and--er--frankly, PODBURY, I see no necessity (now, at all events) to take that ridiculous--hum--penance
too literally. We are travelling together, and I imagine that is enough for Miss PRENDERGAST.

Podb. It's enough for me--especially when you make yourself so doosid amiable as this. You
needn't alarm yourself--you won't have any more of my company than I can help; only I must
say, for two fellows who came out to do a tour together, it's-- [Walks away, grumbling.

Later. The band has finished playing; Miss TROTTER is on the bench with CULCHARD.

Miss T. And you mean to tell me you've never met anybody since you even cared to converse with?

Culch. (diplomatically). Does that strike you as so very incredible?

Miss T. Well, it strikes me as just a little too thin. I judged you'd go away, and forget I
ever existed.

Culch. (with tender reproach). How little you know me! I may not be an--er--demonstrative man,
my--er--feelings are not easily roused, but, once roused, well--(wounded)--I think I may claim
to possess an ordinary degree of constancy!

Miss T. Well, I'm sure I ought to feel it a vurry high compliment to have you going round grieving
all this time on my account.

Culch. Grieving! Ah, if I could only tell you what I went through! (Decides, on reflection,
that the less he says about this the better.) But all that is past. And now may I not expect
a more definite answer to the question I asked at Bingen? Your reply then was--well, a little
ambiguous.

Miss T. I guess it's got to be just about as ambiguous now--there don't seem anything I can
say. There's times when I feel as if it might be sort of elevating and improving to have you
shining around; and there's other times when I suspect that, if it went on for any considerable
period, likely I'd weaken. I'm not just sure. And I can't ever make myself believe but what
you're disapproving of me, inside of you, most all the time!

Culch. Pray dismiss such--er--morbid misgivings, dear Miss TROTTER. Show that you do so by
accepting me as your guide and companion through life!

Miss T. My! but that sounds like a proposal?

Culch. I intended it to bear that--er--construction. It is a proposal--made after the fullest
reflection.

Miss T. I'm ever so obliged. But we don't fix things quite that way in my country. We want
to feel pretty sure, first, we shann't get left. And it don't seem to me as if I'd had opportunities
enough of studying your leading characteristics. I'll have to study them some more before I
know whereabouts I am; and I want you to understand that I'm not going to commit myself to
anything at present. That mayn't be sentiment, but I guess it's common-sense, anyway. And all
you've got to do is, just to keep around, and kind of impress me with a conviction that you're
the vurry brightest and best man in the entire universe, and I don't believe you'll find much
difficulty about that. And now I guess we'll go into table d'hôte--I'm just as ravenous!

Culch. (to himself, as he follows her). Really, this is not much better than RUSKIN, after
all. But I don't despair. That last remark was distinctly encouraging!

SCENE--A large Salle à Manger, decorated in the Pompeian style. Table d'hôte has begun. CULCHARD
is seated between Miss TROTTER and a large and conversational stranger. Opposite are three
empty chairs.

Culchard's Neighbour. Then you're going on to Venice? Well, you take my advice. When you get
there, you ask for tunny. Don't forget--tunny!

Culch. (who wants to talk to Miss T.) Tunny? Thank you. I--er--will certainly remember his
name, if I require a guide.

His N. A guide? No, no--tunny's a fish, Sir, a coarse red fish, with flesh like a raw beefsteak.

Culch. Is that so? Then I will make a point of asking for it--if I want raw beefsteak. [Attempts
to turn to Miss T.

His N. That's what I did when I was at Venice. I sent for the Manager. He came. I said to him.
"Look here, I'm an Englishman. My name's BELLERBY. (CULCHARD bows in patient boredom.) I've
heard of your Venetian tunny. I wish to taste it. Bring me some!"

Culch. (crushingly). A most excellent method of obtaining it, no doubt. (To Waiter.) Numéro
vingt-sept, demi bouteille de Chianti, et siphon!

His N. You don't wait till I've done, Sir! I didn't obtain it--not at first. The man made excuses.
I was prepared for that. I told him plainly, "I know what you're thinking--it's a cheap fish,
and you fancy I'm ordering it out of economy!"

Culch. (raising his eyebrows for Miss T.'s benefit). Of course, he naturally would think so.
And that is how you got your tunny? I see. [Mr. BELLERBY stares at him suspiciously, and decides
to suppress the remainder of his tunny.

Miss T. This hotel seems to be thinning some. We've three ghosts right in front of us this evening.

Culch. (turning with effusion). So we have! My friend is one, and he'll be here presently,
but I much prefer myself to see every seat occupied. There is something so depressing about
a vacant chair, don't you think?

Miss T. It's calculated to put one in mind of Macbeth's little dinner-party, certainly. But
you can cheer up, Mr. CULCHARD, here comes a couple of belated Banquos. My gracious; I do like
that girl's face--she has such a perfectly lovely expression, and looks real superior too!

Culch. (who has just dropped his glasses into his soup). I--ah--which lady are you referring
too? (He cleans and adjusts his glasses--to discover that he is face to face with Miss HYPATIA
PRENDERGAST.) Oh ... I--I see--precisely, quite so! (He turns to BELLERBY to cover his confusion
and avoid meeting Miss PRENDERGAST'S eye.) I beg your pardon, you were describing how you caught
a tunny? Pray continue.

Mr. Bellerby (stiffly). Excuse me, I don't seem fortunate enough to have secured your undivided
attention.

Culch. (with intense interest). Quite the contrary, I assure you! You were saying you always
ordered it out of economy?

Mr. B. Pardon me--I was saying nothing of the sort. I was saying that I told the Manager I
knew that was why he thought I ordered it--a rather different thing! "You're quite wrong,"
I said. "You may pay twopence-halfpenny a pound for it, and charge me half-a-crown, if you
like, but I mean to taste that tunny!" I was determined not to be done out of my tunny, Sir!

Culch. (breathlessly). And what did the tunny--I mean the Manager--say to that?

Mr. B. Oh, made more difficulties--it wasn't to be got, and so on. At last I said to him (very
quietly, but he saw I was in earnest), "Now I tell you what it is--I'm going to have that tunny,
and, if you refuse to give it me,--well, I shall just send my courier out for it, that's all!"
So, with, that, they brought me some--and anything more delicious I never tasted in all my life!

Culch. (to himself). If I can only keep him on at this tunny! (Aloud.) And--er--what does it
taste like exactly, now?

Mr. B. (pregnantly), You order it, Sir--insist on having it. Then you'll know what it tastes
like! [He devotes himself to his soup.

Culch. (with his eyes lowered--to himself). I must look up in another minute--and then! [He
shivers.

       *       *       *       *       *

"TYPICAL DEVELOPMENTS."

One of our very occasional contributors, whose valuable time is mainly occupied by the composition
of successful novels, sends us the following, written by his type-writer. From this specimen
it will be gathered what a real economy in correcting letter-press a type-writer must be.

    Dear Editor

    I send you my new book to reed and if you likit pleaase give me a
    legup. The story of my other book was anti-turkish but has not yet been
    probited in Constanple though it has reachd its tetenth edition, at
    least the ninth is neraly all shrubshcribed bedfore it isrereaddy. If
    my pullisher is not sasfide oughtbe. Never use pen now only typwritr so
    much quickerin tellgible convenent an leshble

      Yours
      S SMUGGYNS

It strikes us that either the machine stammers, or that it was, at the time of writing, somewhat
the worse for liquor, or that it is a very truthfully phonetic-writing but somewhat indiscreet
amanuensis. At the same time herewith and hereby every success to our friend SMUGGYNS'S new book.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARD LINES FOR HIM.--When the first stone of a new theatre in Cranbourne Street was laid the
other day by some Magnates of the Theatrical Profession--beg pardon, "the Profession," we should
have said--Mrs. BANCROFT made a telling impromptu speech, and then Mr. YARDLEY, ancient Cricketer
and Modern Dramatist, was hit on the head--accidentally, of course--by the bottle which is
in use on these occasions. "Very YARDLEY treated," observed Sir DRURIOLANUS, in his happiest
vein. Not the first literary gent who, according to the ancient slang of the Tom-and-Jerry
period, has been "cut" by ill-use of the bottle. But the unfortunate author's sorrows did not
end with this sad blow, as, very soon afterwards, his dear friends the Critics, with profuse
apologies for being compelled to handle him so severely, were down upon him for his new version
of a French piece, entitled The Planter. So the logical sequence of events was, that first
a blow was planted, and then appeared The Planter.

       *       *       *       *       *

ECCLESIASTICAL LAYMAN.--At a meeting in Rome, the "Duke di SERMONETA" took the chair. If ever
there were a staunch Churchman, this by his name, rendered in English as "Sermon-devourer,"
should be he.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR OWN FINANCIAL COLUMN.

Telegraphic Address--"Croesus, E.C."

Sir,--Let me first express my financial acknowledgments to the teeming millions who have honoured
me, and benefited themselves by seeking my advice since my first letter appeared last week.
Communications containing cheques, postal orders, and stamps, have poured in upon me in one
unceasing torrent. The consignors have, in every case, been good enough to say that they handed
all they possessed over to me, in the full confidence that I would invest the proceeds to the
best advantage in some of the countless undertakings in which I wield a paramount influence.
Their trust is fully deserved.

Investors will remember that, in the course of the last German Expedition to Central Africa,
a tract of country, rich in every mineral deposit, and admirably fitted for the operations
of husbandry, was discovered in lat. 42°, long. 65°. The Germans at that time had not a single
handkerchief left, and were unable, therefore to hoist the German flag over the palace of the
native king, GUL-GULL. Private information of this was conveyed to me. I at once fitted out
an Expedition at my own expense, placed myself at the head of it, and after terrible hardships,
in the course of which no less than two hundred of my comrades either succumbed outright to
the bite of the poisonous contango fly, or had to be mercifully dispatched by the hammer (a
painless native form of death), in order to end their tortures, I succeeded in reaching the
capital, where I was hospitably received by the king. After a negotiation of three weeks, His
Majesty agreed, in the kindest and most affable manner, to concede to me his whole country
together with all its revenues, minerals, royalties, timber, water-power, lakes, farm-houses,
stock and manor-houses, the whole beautifully situated in the heart of a first-class sporting
country, within easy reach of ten packs of hounds; the old residential palace replete with
every modern comfort, and admirably adapted for the purposes of a gentleman desiring to set
up in the business of kingship. It matters not what I had to pay for this. The secret is my
own, and shall go to Westminster Abbey with me. The point is, that with the funds entrusted
to me, I have formed the Cent-per-Central African Exploration and Investment Syndicate, and
have allotted shares to all those whose contributions have come to hand. As to profit, I have
calculated it on the strictest actuarial principles, and find it cannot be less than £100 for
every £100 invested. This may seem small, but in these matters moderation is the soul of business.
I shall have more to say on this subject next week.

Answers to Correspondents.

DISMAL JEMMY.--Why do you suggest that the motto of my new company should be, "Stealer et fraudax"?
Is it a Latin joke? If so, don't write to me any more. Those who deal with me must be British
to the backbone.

ANXIOUS.--You can't do better than send me those £50,000. I guarantee secrecy and quick returns.
The Eyeoyu Land Trust is best for your purposes (Pref. deb. 492; stk. 18. 2. 3). Send money
at once to CROESUS, E.C. Delay might be fatal.

CAPITALIST.--No doubt, as you say, Consols are Consols; but take my advice and don't give GOSCHEN
your money. Why not try the United Bladder Mortgage Company? Bladders are bound to go up. They
were floated at 10 and are now at 96. Verb. sap. No; £20,000 would not be too much.

"POTTER."--Something good may he done in Land Rails, if you can get near enough. Have a shot
at them by all means.

"PRACTICAL JOKER."--Quite right. Sell them.

"ANXIOUS INQUIRER" wishes to be informed what is the difference between Preferred and Deferred.
If he will tell us how much he expects to receive in each case, the mere calculation of the
difference will be an easy matter; but to receive it is quite another affair. If he wishes
to know the "distinction" between these two classes of "securities," it may be summed up in
the answer to the question, "Will you have it now, or wait till you get it?"

"A PUZZLED ONE."--Sell everything.

"MEET ME BY MIDNIGHT."--Yes. A Loan.

"LAMBKIN."--Part with No. 2, &c., but take care of No. 1.

"INSIDER."--Get out.

"TOTTIE TOTTS."--Here for private consultation from 5 to 7 P.M.

"RICHARD."--Buy Bizzy B's, Sell Early P's, and Spoiled Fives. Buy Jingoes.

"BRUNO."--"Bear" your burdens.

"ADA WITH THE GOLDENHAIR."--Send photo at once. Cannot advise until we know your figure.

  "CROESUS,
  E.C."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A JUBILEE GREETING!

(Set to a Song from Sir Walter Scott.)

NOVEMBER 9, 1891.

Mr. Punch (for self and everybody) loquitur:--

  My Prince, 'tis for our coming King
    We all lift glass in hand;
  For him that loud hurrahs do ring
    To-day all round the land,
                  My Prince,
    All round a loyal land!

  Let sycophantish slave kotoo;
    You love not such display;
  Let courtiers cringe and creatures "boo."
    'Tis not our English way,
                  My Prince,
    'Tis not our English way.

  As FLORA to Prince CHARLIE bent
    It is no shame to bow;
  And you're a man to be content
    With man's respect, I trow,
                  My Prince,
    With man's respect, I trow.

  For Fifty Years we've known you, Sir,
    And liked you. Love is free!
  That's why the land is all astir,
    To hail your Jubilee,
                  My Prince,
    To hail your Jubilee.

  In Forty-Six Punch pictured you,
    "A Sailor every inch,"[A]
  Toasting "Mamma!" in a stiff brew
    Without a sign of flinch,
                  My Prince,
    Without one sign of flinch.

  In Seventy-One he stood beside
    Your door in sad "Suspense."[B]
  We saw the turn in that dark tide
    With thankfulness intense,
                  My Prince,
    With gratitude intense.

  From stage to stage your course he's marked
    Abroad as eke at home;
  Where'er you've travelled, toiled, skylarked;
    And now mid-age has come,
                  My Prince,
    And now mid-age has come.

  Come as it comes to all. Most true!
    But, "let the galled jade wince,"
  Still Punch's pencil pictures you
    As every inch a Prince,
                  My Prince,
    Yes, every inch a Prince!

  And now your Jubilee we greet,
    With hearty English joy,
  Who, as those Fifty Years did fleet,
    Have watched you, man and boy,
                  My Prince,
    Have watched you, man and boy.

  When all is done that Prince can do,
    All is not done in vain.
  That's why we drink Good Health to you
    Again and eke again,
                  My Prince,
    Again and eke again!

  Punch turns him round and right about,
    And leads the British roar
  Which rises in one loyal shout,
    "Health to the Prince once more!
                  My Prince,
    Health to him evermore!"

  And health to her, the unfading flower
    From Denmark, o'er the foam.
  Ad multos annos, grace, and power,
    Love, and a Happy Home,
                  My Prince,
    Love, and a Happy Home!

