The skeleton of a whale, 95 feet long by 18 feet high, has lately been deposited in the Cabinet
of Natural History at Ghent. In the opinion of many naturalists, among whom is M. Cuvier, this
fish could not have been less than 900 or 1,000 years old!

Fly in Wheat.

In North America, much damage is done to crops of wheat by the Hessian fly. The female deposits
from one to eight or more eggs upon a single plant of wheat, between the vagina or sheath of
the inner leaf and the culm nearest the roots; in which situation, with its head towards the
root or first joint, the young larva pass the winter. They eat the stem, which thus becomes
weak, and breaks; but are checked by another insect, called the destructor, otherwise whole
crops of wheat would be annihilated.

Spiders.

A correspondent of London's Magazine of Natural History says, that he lately amused himself
for more than an hour in observing the proceedings of a little spider, whose bag of eggs had
been removed and restored!

Light of the Sea.

Its appearance previous to a storm is a very old observation among sailors. It is, however
without foundation, as it is to be seen, more or less, all the year round in the Carribean
sea, where there are no storms but in the hurricane months. In the hand it has a kind of mucous
feel.--Mag. Nat. Hist.

Woodpeckers.

A specimen of the least woodpecker was lately shot near Newcastle; and another has since been
heard and seen near Coventry. Its noise resembles that made by the boring of a large auger
through the hardest wood; whence the country people sometimes call the bird "the pump-borer."--Ibid.

The Tea Shrub

Has been naturalized in Java with complete success; so that, sooner or later, the Chinese monopoly
will come to an end.

Floating Island.

From the earliest times, there are to be found in authors, notices of the singular geological
phenomena of floating islands. Pliny tells us of the floating islands of the Lago de Bassanello,
near Rome; in Loch Lomond, in Scotland, there is or was a floating island; and in the Lake
of Derwent Water, in Cumberland, such islands appear and disappear at indefinite periods. Mr.
A. Pettingal, jun. has recently described a floating island, about a mile southwards of Newbury
port, 140 poles in length, and 120 in breadth. It is covered with trees; and in summer, when
dry weather is long continued, it descends to the bottom of the lake.--American, Journal of
Science.

An immense Medusa.

A species of sea-serpent, was thrown on shore near Bombay, in 1819. It was about 40 feet long,
and must have weighed many tons. A violent gale of wind threw it high above the reach of ordinary
tides; in which situation it took nine months to rot; during which process travellers were
obliged to change the direction of the road for nearly a quarter of a mile, to avoid the offensive
effluvia. It rotted so completely, that not a vestige of bone remained.--(C. Telfair, Esq.
to R. Barclay, Esq. of Bury Hill.)

Himalaya Mountains.

Captain Gerard, in exploring these mountains, with a view to measurement, had ascended to the
height of 19,600 feet, being 400 feet higher than Humboldt had ascended on the Andes. The latter
part of Captain Gerard's ascent, for about two miles, was on an inclined plane of 42°, a nearer
approach to the perpendicular than Humboldt conceived it possible to climb for any distance
together.--Heber's India.

Hippopotamus.

The head of a Hippopotamus has recently been brought to England, with all the flesh about it,
in a high state of preservation. This amphibious animal was harpooned while in combat with
a crocodile, in a lake in the interior of Africa. The head measures near four feet long, and
eight feet in circumference; the jaws open two feet wide, and the cutting-teeth of which it
has four in each jaw, are above a foot long, and four inches in circumference. Its ears are
not bigger than a terrier's, and are much about the same shape. This formidable and terrific
creature, when full-grown, measures about 17 feet long from the extremity of the snout to the
insertion of the tail, above 16 feet in circumference round the body, and stands above 7 feet
high. It runs with astonishing swiftness for its great bulk, at the bottom of lakes and rivers,
but not with as much ease on land. When excited, it puts forth its full strength, which is
prodigious. "I have seen," says a mariner, as we find it in Dampier, "one of these animals
open its jaws, and seizing a boat between its teeth, at once bite and sink it to the bottom.
I have seen it on another occasion place itself under one of our boats, and rising under it,
overset it, with six men who were in it, but who, however, happily received no other injury."
At one time it was not uncommon in the Nile, but now it is no where to be found in that river,
except above the cataracts.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

A CHAPTER OF BULLS.

  I confess it is what the English call a bull, in the expression,
  though the sense be manifest enough.--POPE.

We are friends to the exposition of the weak sides of great men, inasmuch as it reads them
a valuable lesson on their own infallibility, and tends to lower the molehills of conceit that
are raised in the world as stumbling-blocks along every road of petty ambition. It would, however,
be but a sorry toil for the most cynical critic to illustrate these vagaries otherwise than
so many slips and trippings of the tongue and pen, to which all men are liable in their unguarded
moments--from Homer to Anacreon Moore, or Demosthenes to Mr. Brougham. Our course is rather
that of a good-humoured exposé, the worst effect of which will be to raise a laugh at the expense
of poor humanity, or a merited smile at our own dulness and mistaken sense of the ridiculous.

In Painting alone we have a rich harvest. Burgoyne in his travels, notices a painting in Spain,
where Abraham is preparing to shoot Isaac with a pistol!

There is a painting at Windsor, of Antonio Verrio, in which, he has introduced himself, Sir
Godfrey Kneller, and Bap. May, surveyor of the works, in long periwigs, as spectators of Christ
healing the sick.

In the Luxembourg is a picture of Reubens, in which are the queen-mother in council, with two
cardinals, and Mercury!

There was, also, in the Houghton Hall collection, Velvet Brughel's Adoration of the Magi, in
which were a multitude of figures, all finished with the greatest Dutch exactness; in fact,
the ideas are rather a little too Dutch, for the Ethiopian king is dressed in a surplice, with
boots and spurs, and brings, for a present, a gold model of a modern ship.

The monks of a certain monastery at Messina, exhibited, with great triumph, a letter written
by the Virgin Mary with her own hand. Unluckily for them, this was not, as it easily might
have been, written on the ancient papyrus, but on paper made of rags.

In the church of St. Zacharia, at Venice, is the picture of a Virgin and Child, whom an angel
is entertaining with an air upon the violin. Jean Belin was the artist, in 1500. So, also,
in the college library of Aberdeen, to a very neat Dutch missal, are appended elegant paintings
on the margin, of the angels appearing to the shepherds, with one of the men playing on the
bagpipes.

There is a picture in a church at Bruges that puts not only all chronology, but all else, out
of countenance. It is the marriage of Jesus Christ with Saint Catherine of Sienna. But who
marries them? St. Dominic, the patron of the church. Who joins their hands? Why, the Virgin
Mary. And to crown the anachronism, King David plays the harp at the wedding!

Albert Durer represented an angel in a flounced petticoat, driving Adam and Eve from Paradise.

Lewis Cigoli painted a picture of the Circumcision of the Holy Child, Jesus, and drew the high
priest, Simeon, with spectacles on his nose; upon a supposition, probably, that, in respect
of his great age, that aid would be necessary. Spectacles, however, were not known for fourteen
centuries afterwards.

In a picture painted by F. Chello della Puera, the Virgin Mary is placed on a velvet sofa,
playing with a cat and a paroquet, and about to help herself to coffee from an engraved coffee-pot.

In another, painted by Peter of Cortona, representing the reconciliation of Jacob and Laban,
(now in the French Museum), the painter has represented a steeple or belfry rising over the
trees. A belfry in the mountains of Mesopotamia, in the time of Jacob!

N. Poussin's celebrated picture, at the same place, of Rebecca at the Well, has the whole back-ground
decorated with Grecian architecture.

Paul Veronese placed Benedictine fathers and Swiss soldiers among his paintings from the Old
Testament.

A painter, intending to describe the miracle of the fishes listening to the preaching of St.
Anthony of Padua, painted the lobsters, who were stretching out of the water, red! probably
having never seen them in their natural state. Being asked how he could justify this anachronism,
he extricated himself by observing, that the whole affair was a miracle, and that thus the
miracle was made still greater.

In the Notices des MSS. du Roi VI. 120, in the illuminations of a manuscript Bible at Paris,
under the Psalms, are two persons playing at cards; and under Job and the Prophets are coats
of arms and a windmill.

Poussin, in his picture of the Deluge has painted boats, not then invented. St. Jerome, in
another place, with a clock by his side; a thing unknown in that saint's days.--Nous revenons.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER

       *       *       *       *       *

VIRGINIA WATER,

(The favourite Retreat of his Majesty.)

Virginia Water was planted, and the lake executed, under the direction of Paul Sandby, at a
time when this part of Windsor Forest was the favourite residence of Duke William of Cumberland.
The neighbouring scenery is bold and rugged, being the commencement of Bagshot Heath; and the
variety of surface agreeably relieves the eye, after the monotony of the first twenty miles
from town, which fatigues the traveller either upon the Bath or Western roads. At the time
when the public were allowed to visit Virginia Water, the best point of entrance was at the
gate at Bishopsgate; near which very pretty village, or rather green, the Royal Lodge is at
present situated. Shelley, who had a true eye for the picturesque, resided for some time at
this place; and it would have been difficult for a poet to have found, in any of the highly
cultivated counties of England, a spot so full of the most exquisite variety of hill and dale,
of wood and water,--so fitted to call forth and cherish the feelings upon which poetry must
depend for its peculiar nurture.

Bishopsgate is situated about a mile to the right of the western road from London, after you
ascend the hill beyond Egham. To the left, St. Anne's Hill, the favoured residence of Charles
Fox, is a charming object; and upon the ridge which the traveller ascends, is the spot which
has given a name to Denham's celebrated poem. "Cooper's Hill" is not shut out from the contemplative
searchers after the beauties of nature; and, however the prospect here may be exceeded by scenes
of wider extent, or more striking grandeur, certainly the locale of the earliest, and perhaps
the best, descriptive poem of our language, is calculated to produce the warmest feelings of
admiration, both for its actual beauty and its unrivalled associations. From an elevation of
several hundred feet, you look down upon a narrow fertile valley, through which the Thames
winds with surpassing loveliness.

Immediately at your feet is the plain of Runnemede, where the great battle between John and
the Barons was fought; and in the centre of the river is the little fishing island, where Magna
Charta was signed. At the extremity of the valley is Windsor Castle, rising up in all the pomp
of its massive towers. We recollect the scene as Windsor was. Whatever Mr. Wyattville may have
done for its internal improvement, and for its adaptation to the purposes of a modern residence
without sacrificing all its character of antiquity, we fear that he has destroyed its picturesque
effect in the distant landscape. Its old characteristic feature was that of a series of turrets
rising above the general elevation. By raising the intermediate roofs, without giving a proportionate
height to the towers, the whole line has become square and unbroken. This was, perhaps, an
unavoidable fault; but it is a fault.

From Cooper's Hill, the entrance to Virginia Water is a walk of a quarter of an hour. We were
accustomed to wander down a long and close plantation of pines, where the rabbit ran across
with scarcely a fear of man. A more wild and open country succeeded; and we then followed the
path, through many a "bosky bourn," till we arrived at a rustic bridge, which crossed the lake
at a narrow neck, where the little stream was gradually lost amongst the underwood. A scene
of almost unrivalled beauty here burst upon the view. For nearly a mile, a verdant walk led
along, amidst the choicest evergreens, by the side of a magnificent breadth of water. The opposite
shore was rich with the heather-bloom; and plantations of the most graceful trees--the larch,
the ash, and the weeping birch ("the lady of the woods"), broke the line of the wide lake,
and carried the imagination on, in the belief that some mighty river lay beyond that screening
wood. The cascade was at length reached. Cascades are much upon the same plan, whether natural
or artificial; the scale alone makes the difference. This cascade is sufficiently large not
to look like a plaything; and if it were met with in Westmoreland or Wales, tourists would
dilate much upon its beauties. At this point the water may be easily forded; and after a walk
of the most delicious seclusion, we used to reach a bold arch, over which the public road was
carried. Here have been erected some of the antique columns, that, a few years ago, were in
the court-yard of the British Museum.

From this arch a variety of walks, of the most delightful retirement, present themselves. They
are principally bounded with various trees of the pine tribe, intermingled with laurel and
acacia. The road gradually ascends to a considerable elevation, where there is a handsome building,
called the Belvidere. The road from this spot is very charming. We descend from this height,
through a wild path, by the side of trees of much more ancient growth than the mass around;
and, crossing the high road, again reach the lake, at a point where its dimensions are ample
and magnificent. About this part a splendid fishing-temple has lately been erected. Of its
taste we can say nothing.

The common road from Blacknest (the name of this district of Windsor Forest) to the Royal Lodge
is strikingly beautiful. Virginia Water is crossed by a very elegant bridge, built by Sandby;
on one side of it the view terminates in a toy of the last age--a Chinese temple; on the other
it ranges over a broad expanse of water. The road sometimes reminds one of the wildness of
mountain scenery, and at another turn displays all the fertility of a peaceful agricultural
district. We at length pass the secluded domain of the Royal Lodge; and when we reach the edge
of the hill, we look upon a vista of the most magnificent elms, and over an expanse of the
most striking forest scenery, with the splendid Castle terminating the prospect--a monument
of past glories, which those who have a feeling for their country's honour may well uphold
and cherish.-- London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

TEA.

The principal article of our commerce with China, namely, tea, is, perhaps, more singular in
its history than any other article of commerce in the known world. A simple and unsophisticated
shrub, in little more than half a century, has become an article of such general consumption,
that it seems to form one of the prime articles of existence among the great bulk of mankind.
It is the peculiar growth of a country, of which it forms almost the only link of connexion
with the rest of the world. It forms the source of the largest commercial revenue to the British
Government of any other commodity whatever, and of the largest commercial profits to the individuals
concerned in its importation. Withal, it is the simplest, the most harmless thing that ever
was offered to the gratification of man,--having, it is believed and argued by many, a moral
influence wherever it is diffused. It is the rallying point of our earliest associations; it
has ever given an additional charm to our firesides; and tends, perhaps, more than any one
thing, to confirm the pre-existing domestic habits of the British public. Its exhilarating
qualities are eagerly sought after as a restorative and solace from the effects of fatigue
or dissipation; the healthy and the sick, the young and the old, all equally resort to the
use of it, as yielding all the salutary influence of strong liquors, without their baneful
and pernicious effects. Yet this shrub, so simple and so useful, is delivered to the community
of this country, so surcharged with duties and profits beyond its original cost, that, did
it contain all the mischievous qualities that are opposed to its real virtues, it could not
be more strictly guarded from general use.

For the whole of our imports, including factory expenses and commission, the original cost
in China amounts to the sum of two millions sterling. This is wonderfully increased before
the British public can have any access to the article of consumption; thus:--

1. The value of the Company's importations from China
   into Great Britain, as established by their own
   statements, is                                          £2,000,000

2. On this they charge 100 per cent, for their own
   especial benefit                                         2,000,000

3. And the Government duty, as by law established, is
   equal to the original cost, and the profits charged
   by the company; both forming the sale price            4,000,000
                                                           ----------
                                                           £8,000,000
Oriental Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH OF YOUNG PARK.

It is quite inconceivable with what increased zeal new candidates for African discovery come
forward the moment that the death of any fresh victim to this pestilential country is announced.
To the list of those who have already fallen, may be added young Park, the son of the late
enterprising Mungo Park, and a midshipman of his majesty's ship Sybille. He went out in this
ship with a full determination to proceed on foot, and alone, from the coast to the spot where
his father perished, in the hope of hearing some authentic and more detailed account of the
catastrophe than had yet been received. With leave of the commodore, he set out from Accra,
and proceeded as far as Yansong, the chief town of Acquimbo, distant from the coast about one
hundred and forty miles. Here the natives were celebrating the Yam feast, a sort of religious
ceremony, to witness which Park got up into a Fetish tree, which is regarded by the natives
with fear and dread. Here he remained a great part of the day, exposed to the sun, and was
observed to drink a great quantity of palm wine. In dropping down from one of the lower branches,
he fell on the ground, and said, that he felt a severe shock in his head. He was that evening
seized with a fever, and died in three days, on the 31st October, 1827. As soon as the king,
Akitto, heard of his death, he ordered all his baggage to be brought to his house, and instantly
despatched a messenger to Accra, first making him swear "by the head of his father," that he
would not sleep till he had delivered the message; it was to inform the resident of the event,
and that all the property of the deceased would be forthwith sent down to Accra. This was accordingly
done, and it did not appear on examination, that a single article was missing; even an old
hat, without a crown, was not omitted. There was an idle report of Park being poisoned, for
which there appears not the slightest foundation.--Q. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIRGE

TO THE MEMORY OF MISS ELLEN GEE, OF KEW,

Who died in consequence of being stung in the eye.

  Peerless, yet hapless maid of Q!
    Accomplish'd LN G!
  Never again shall I and U
    Together sip our T.

  For, ah! the Fates, I know not Y,
    Sent midst the flowers a B,
  Which ven'mous stung her in the I,
    So that she could not C.

  LN exclaim'd, "Vile, spiteful B!
    If ever I catch U
  On jess'mine, rosebud, or sweet P,
    I'll change your stinging Q.

  "I'll send you, like a lamb or U,
    Across the Atlantic C,
  From our delightful village Q,
    To distant OYE.

  "A stream runs from my wounded I,
    Salt as the briny C,
  As rapid as the X or Y,
    The OIO, or D.

  "Then fare thee ill, insensate B!
    Who stung, nor yet knew Y;
  Since not for wealthy Durham's C
    Would I have lost my I."

  They bear with tears fair LN G
    In funeral RA,
  A clay-cold corse now doom'd to B,
    Whilst I mourn her DK.

  Ye nymphs of Q, then shun each B,
    List to the reason Y!
  For should a B C U at T,
    He'll surely sting your I.

  Now in a grave, L deep in Q,
    She's cold as cold can B;
  Whilst robins sing upon A U,
    Her dirge and LEG.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES SENT WITH A GOOSE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORPORATION LEARNING.

At a late meeting of a certain corporation in Dorsetshire, for the nomination of a person to
fill the office of Mayor, a sufficient number of the burgesses not being in attendance, it
was intimated that an application would be made for a Mandamus, when one of "the worthy electors,"
being un-"learned in the law," innocently remarked, "I hope he will come, and then he'll put
un all right and make un elect one."

Sept. 25, 1828.

This is not a Joe Miller joke, but one of actual and recent occurrence; although there is a
similar story fathered on a sapient civic authority.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELLING A WOMAN.

The value that was set upon the bond-servants in the West Indies, is curiously exemplified
in the following anecdote:--

There was a planter in Barbadoes that came to his neighbour, and said to him, "Neighbour, I
hear you have lately brought good store of servants out of the last ship that came from England;
and I hear withal that you want provisions. I have great want of a woman servant, and would
be glad to make an exchange. If you will let me have some of your woman's flesh, you shall
have some of my hog's flesh." So the price was set, a groat a-pound for the hog's flesh, and
sixpence for the woman's. The scales were set up, and the planter had a maid that was extremely
fat, lazy, and good for nothing; her name was Honour. The man brought a great fat sow, and
put it in one scale, and Honour was put in the other. But when he saw how much the maid outweighed
his sow, he broke off the bargain and would not go on.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMOKING.

Such is the passion for smoking at Hamburgh, that children about ten years of age may be seen
with pipes in their mouths, whiffing with great gravity and composure.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLIC ROADS.

The turnpike-roads of England are above twenty thousand miles in length, and upwards of a million
sterling is annually expended in their repair and maintenance.

       *       *       *       *       *

John Bulwer, M.D. was author of many books, the most curious of which were his "Anthropo Metamorphoses,"
and "Pathomyotomia." We might conclude he was of Irish extraction; St. Patrick, the old song
says, "ne'er shut his eyes to complaints," and Bulwer in his "Instructions to the Deaf and
Dumb," tells us they are intended "to bring those who are so born to hear the sound of words
with their eyes!"--Wadd's Memoirs.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRANIOLOGY.

Philosophy is a very pleasant thing, and has various uses; one is, that it makes us laugh;
and certainly there are no speculations in philosophy, that excite the risible faculties, more
than some of the serious stories related by fanciful philosophers.--One man cannot think with
the left side of his head; another, with the sanity of the right side judges the insanity of
the left side of his head. Zimmerman, a very grave man, used to draw conclusions as to a man's
temperament, from his nose!--not from the size or form of it, but the peculiar sensibility
of the organ; while some have thought, that the temperature of the atmosphere might be accurately
ascertained by the state of its tip! and Cardan considered acuteness of the organ a sure proof
of genius!--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILSON THE PAINTER.

The late Mr. Christie, the auctioneer, while selling a collection of pictures, having arrived
at a chef-d'oeuvre of Wilson's, was expatiating with his usual eloquence on its merits, quite
unaware that Wilson himself had just before entered the room. "This gentlemen, is one of Mr.
Wilson's Italian pictures; he cannot paint anything like it now." "That's a lie!" exclaimed
the irritated artist, to Mr. Christie's no small discomposure, and to the great amusement of
the company; "he can paint infinitely better."

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTCH DEGREE.

A few years since, a vain old country surgeon obtained a diploma to practice, and called on
Dr. H----, of Bath, with the important intelligence. At dinner, the doctor asked his new brother,
if the form of diplomas ran now in the same style as at the early commencement of those honours?
"Pray Sir, what might that form be?" says the surgeon, "I'll give it to you," replied our Galen,
when stepping to his daughter's harpsichord, he sung the following prophecy of the Witches
to Macbeth:

  He must, he must,
  He shall, he shall
  Spill much more blood
  And become worse,
  To make his title good.

"That, sir, was the true ancient mode of conferring a Scotch degree on Dr. Macbeth."

G.J.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE FACES.

    Three faces wears the doctor; when first sought
    An angel's--and a god's the cure half wrought;
    But when, that cure complete, he seeks his fee,
    The devil looks then less terrible than he.

This epigram is illustrated by the following conversation, which passed between Bouvart and
a French marquis, whom he had attended during a long and severe indisposition. As he entered
the chamber on a certain occasion, he was thus addressed by his patient: "Good day to you,
Mr. Bouvart; I feel quite in spirits, and think my fever has left me."--"I am sure of it, "
replied the doctor; "the very first expression you used convinces me of it."--"Pray explain
yourself."--"Nothing more easy; in the first days of your illness, when your life was in danger,
I was your dearest friend; as you began to get better, I was your good Bouvart; and now I am
Mr. Bouvart; depend upon it you are quite recovered."

       *       *       *       *       *

LYING.

A Dutch ambassador, entertaining the king of Siam with an account of Holland, after which his
majesty was very inquisitive, amongst other things told him, that water in his country would
sometimes get so hard, that men walked upon it; and that it would bear an elephant with the
utmost ease. To which the king replied, "Hitherto I have believed the strange things you have
told me, because I looked upon you as a sober, fair man; but now I am sure you lie."

The ARCANA of SCIENCE for 1828. Price 4s. 6d.