"You had better eat some supper," said a voice in the doorway a little later, as Mrs. Layton
came noiselessly to the barn, and surprised the boy kneeling on the hay in the horse's stall
adjoining the one where Brindle lay groaning, his face buried in his arms, which were flung
out over the manger.

The lad scrambled to his feet in deep confusion.

"O, thank you, Mrs. Layton, but I cannot eat a bite!" he protested. "It is ever so good of
you to think of me, but I cannot eat anything."

"You must," said the doctor's wife, firmly. "Come outside and wash in the trough if you do
not want to leave Brindle. You can sit near by and watch her, if you think you must, though
it will not do a particle of good, for she is bound to die anyway. What were you doing in there
on your knees--praying?"

The woman's voice softened perceptibly as the question passed her lips, and she looked half-pityingly
into the pale, haggard young face, thinking of little Ted's, and wondering how it would have
looked at thirteen if he had done this thing.

"Yes," muttered Harry, plunging his hands into the water of the trough, and splashing it over
the red flame of a sudden burning blush that kindled in his ash-pale cheeks. "Isn't it all
right to pray for a cow to get well? It 'most kills me to see her suffer so."

Mrs. Layton smiled unwillingly; for the value of her pet cow's products touched her more deeply
than a boy's penitent tears, particularly when that boy was not her own. "There is no use of
your staying in there and watching her suffer, you cannot do her any good," she insisted. "Stay
out here in the fresh air. Do you hear?"

"Yes, ma'am," choked Harry, drying his face on the sleeve of his gingham shirt. He sat down
on a box before the door, the plate of food in his lap, and made an attempt to eat the daintily
cooked meal, but every mouthful almost choked him.

At about midnight, the sleepless young watcher, lying on the edge of the hay just above the
empty manger over which a lantern swung, lifted himself on his elbow at the sound of a long,
low, shuddering groan, and in another moment, Harry knew that poor Brindle had ceased to suffer
the effects of her gluttonous appetite. Creeping down into the stall, he saw at a glance that
the cow was dead, and for a moment, alone there in the stillness and darkness of the spring
night, he felt as if he were the principal actor in some terrible crime.

"Poor old boss!" he sobbed, kneeling down, and putting his arm over the still warm neck. "I--I
have killed you--after all the rich milk and butter you have given me, that have made me grow
strong and fat--just by my carelessness!"

In after-years the memory of that hour came back to Harry Aldis as the dominant note in some
real tragedy, and he never again smelled the fragrance of new hay, mingled with the warm breath
of sleeping cattle, without recalling the misery and self-condemnation of that long night's watch.

In the early dawn, Dr. Layton found the boy lying beside the quiet form in the stall, fast
asleep from exhaustion and grief, his head pillowed on the soft, tawny coat he had loved to
brush until it gleamed like silk.

"Child alive!" he gasped, bending over and taking the lad in his arms, and carrying him out
into the sweet morning air. "Harry, why did you not come and tell me, and then go to bed?"
he cried, setting the bewildered boy on his feet, and leading him to the house. "Now, my boy,
no more of this grieving. The thing is done, and you cannot help it now. There is no more use
in crying for a dead cow than for spilled milk. Now come in and go to bed, and stay there until
tonight; and when you wake up, the new heifer, Brindle's daughter, will be in the barn waiting
for you to milk her. I am going to buy her this morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

Five years after that eventful night, Harry Aldis stood on the doctor's front porch, a youth
of eighteen, bidding good-by to the two who had been more to him than father and mother. He
was going to college in the West, where he could work his way, and in his trunk was a high-school
diploma, and in his pocket a "gilt-edge recommendation" from Dr. Layton.

"God bless you, my boy! Don't forget us," said the doctor, his voice husky with unshed tears
as he wrung the strong young hand that had been so helpful to him in the busy years flown by.

"Forget you, my more than father!" murmured the young man, not even trying to keep the tears
out of his eyes. "No matter how many years it may be before I see you again, I shall always
remember your unfailing kindness to me. And can I ever forget how you saved me for a higher
life than I could possibly have lived if you had set me adrift in the world again for leaving
that barn door unfastened, and killing your cow? As long as I live, I shall remember that great
kindness, and shall try to deserve it by my life."

"Pshaw, Harry," said the doctor, "that was nothing but common humanity!"

"Uncommon humanity," corrected the youth. "Good-by, Mrs. Layton. I shall always remember your
kindness, too, and that you never gave me any less butter or cream from poor Brindle's daughter
for my grave offense. You have been like an own mother to me."

"You have deserved it all, Harry," said the doctor's wife, and there was a tear in her eye,
too, which was an unusual sight, for she was not an emotional woman. "I do not know as it was
such a great calamity, after all, to lose Brindle just as we did, for Daisy is a finer cow
than her mother was, and there has not been another chance since to get as good a heifer."

"So it was a blessing in disguise, after all, Harry," laughed the doctor. "As for you, you
have been a blessing undisguised from that day to this. May the Lord bless and prosper you!
Write to us often."

        *        *        *        *        *

Four years passed, and in one of the Western States a young college graduate stepped from his
pedestal of oratorical honors to take a place among the rising young lawyers of a prosperous
new town that was fast developing into a commercial center.

"I am doing well, splendidly," he wrote Dr. Layton after two years of hard work, "and one of
these days I am coming back to make that promised visit."

But the years came and went, and still the West held him in its powerful clutch. Success smiled
upon his pathway, and into his life entered the sweet, new joy of a woman's love and devotion,
and into his home came the happy music of children's voices. When his eldest boy was eight
years old, his district elected him to the State senate, and four years later sent him to Congress,--an
honest, uncompromising adherent to principle and duty.

"And now, at last," he wrote Dr. Layton, "I am coming East, and I shall run down from Washington
for that long-promised visit. Why do you write so seldom, when I have never yet failed to inform
you of my pyrotechnic advancement into the world of politics? It is not fair. And how is the
family cow? Surely Madam Daisy sleeps with her poor mother ere this, or has been cut up into
roasts and steaks."

And to this letter the doctor replied briefly but gladly:--

"So you are coming at last, my boy! Well, you will find us in the same old house,--a little
the worse for wear, perhaps,--and leading the same quiet life. No, not the same, though it
is quiet enough, for I am growing old, and the town is running after the new young doctors,
leaving us old ones in the rear, to trudge along as best we can. There isn't any 'family cow'
now, Harry. Daisy was sold long ago for beef, poor thing! We never got another, for I am getting
too old to milk, and there never seemed to come along another boy like the old Harry, who would
take all the barn-yard responsibility on his shoulders. Besides, mother is crippled with rheumatism,
and can hardly get around to do her housework, let alone to make butter. We are not any too
well off since the Union Bank failed; for, besides losing all my stock, I have had to help
pay the depositors' claims. But we have enough to keep us comfortable, and much to be thankful
for, most of all that our famous son is coming home for a visit. Bring your wife, too, Harry,
if she thinks it will not be too much of a drop from Washington society to our humble home;
and the children, all five of those bright boys and girls,--bring them all! I want to show
them the old stall in the barn, where, twenty-five years ago, I picked their father up in my
arms early one spring morning as he lay fast asleep on the neck of the old cow over whose expiring
breath he had nearly broken his poor little heart."

        *       *       *       *       *

"Yes, father, of course it has paid to come down here. I would not have missed it for all the
unanimous votes of the third ballot that sent me East," declared the United States senator
at the end of his three days' visit. Long ago, the Hon. Henry Aldis had fallen into the habit
of addressing Dr. Layton, in his letters, by the paternal title.

"It does not seem possible that it is twenty years since I stood here, saying good-by when
I started West. By the way, do you remember what you told me that memorable night when the
lamented Brindle laid down her life because of my carelessness, and her own gluttony? I was
standing at the horse's head, and you were sitting in your buggy, there at the carriage steps,
and I said I wished you would horsewhip me, instead of treating me so kindly. I remember you
reached over and tickled my neck with the lash playfully, and told me there was no use in thrashing
a fellow who was all broken up, anyway, over an accident."

The doctor laughed as he held his arms more closely about the shoulders of Senator Aldis's
two eldest boys; while "Grandmother Layton," with little Ted in her lap, was dreaming again
of the little form that had long, long ago been laid in the graveyard on the hillside.

"Yes, yes," said the doctor, "I remember. What a blessed thing it was I did not send you off
that day to the tune the old cow died on," and he laughed through his tears.

"Blessed!" echoed Mrs. Layton, putting down the wriggling Ted. "It was providential. You know,
Harry, I was not so kind-hearted as John in those days and I thought he ought to send you off.
But he declared he would not, even if you had cost him two cows. He said that if he did it
might cost the world a man. And so it would have, if all they say you are doing out West for
clean government is true."

Senator Aldis laughed, and kissed the old lady.

"I do not know about that," he said modestly. "I am of the opinion that he might have saved
more of a man for the world; but certain it is, he saved whatever manhood there was in that
boy from going to waste by his noble act of kindness. But what I remember most, father, is
what you told me, there at the carriage step, that when I became a rich man, I could pay you
for that cow. Well, I am not exactly a rich man, for I am not in politics for all the money
I can get out of it, but I am getting a better income than my leaving that barn door open would
justify any one in believing I ever could get by my brains; so now I can pay that long-standing
debt without inconvenience. It may come handy for you to have a little fund laid by, since
the Union Bank went to smash, and all your stock with it, and so much of your other funds went
to pay the poor depositors of that defunct institution. It was just like you, father, not to
dodge the assessments, as so many of the stockholders did, by putting all your property in
your wife's name. So, since you made one investment twenty-five years ago that has not seemed
to depreciate in value very much,--an investment in a raw young boy who did not have enough
gumption to fasten a barn door,--here is the interest on what the investment was worth to the
boy, at least a little of it; for I can never begin to pay it all. Good-by, both of you, and
may God bless you! Here comes our carriage, Helen."

When the dust of the departing hack had filtered through the morning sunlight, two pairs of
tear-dimmed eyes gazed at the slip of blue paper in Dr. Layton's hand,--a check for five thousand
dollars.

"We saved a man that time, sure enough!" murmured the old doctor softly.--Emma S. Allen in
the Wellspring.

       *        *        *        *        *

Brotherly Kindness

  A man may make a few mistakes,
    Regardless of his aim.
  But never, never criticize
    And cloud him o'er with blame;
  For all have failed in many things
  And keenly feel the smarting stings,
  Which haunt the mind by day and night
  Till they have made offenses right.

  So liberal be with those you meet
    E'en though they may offend,
  And wish them well as on they go
    Till all the journey end.
  Sometimes we think our honor's hurt
  When some one speaks a little pert;
  But never mind, just hear the good,
  And ever stand where Patience stood.

  Look for the good, the true, the grand
    In those you wish to shun,
  And you will be surprised to find
    Some good in every one;
  Then help the man who makes mistakes
  To rise above his little quakes,
  To build anew with courage strong,
  And fit himself to battle wrong.

JOHN FRANCIS OLMSTED

HONEY AT THE PHONE

Honey's mama had gone to market, leaving her home with nurse. Nurse was up-stairs making beds,
while little Honey, with hands behind her, was trudging about the sitting-room looking for
something to do.

There was a phone in the house, which was a great mystery to Honey when it first came. She
could hear voices talking back to mama, yet could not see a person. Was some one hidden away
in the horn her mother put to her ear, or was it in the machine itself?

Honey never failed to be on hand when the bell rang, and found that her mother generally talked
to her best and dearest friends, ladies who were such frequent callers that Honey knew them
all by name.

Her mama wrote down the names of her friends, with the number of their phones, and, because
the child was so inquisitive about it, she very carefully explained to her just how the whole
thing worked, never thinking that Honey would sometime try it for herself; and, indeed, for
a while Honey satisfied herself by playing phone. She would roll up a piece of paper, and call
out through it, "Hullo!" asking and answering all the questions herself.

One day, on finding herself alone, she took down the receiver and tried to talk to one of her
mama's friends, but it was a failure. She watched mama still more closely after that. On this
particular morning, while mama was at market, she tried again, commencing with the first number
on her mama's list.

Taking down the receiver, she called out, "Hullo!" the answer came back, "Hullo!" "I wants
A 215," said Honey, holding the receiver to her ear.

"Yes," came the reply.

"Are you Miss Samor?" asked Honey.

"Yes," was the reply.

"We wants you to come to our house tonight to supper, mama and me."

"Who's mama and me?" asked the voice.

"Honey," was the reply.

"Honey, through the phone, eh?" laughed the voice. "Tell mama I will come with pleasure."

Honey was not only delighted, but greatly excited. She used every number on her mother's list,
inviting them all to supper.

About four o'clock in the afternoon the guests began to arrive, much to mama's amazement and
consternation, especially when they divested themselves of their wraps, and proceeded to make
themselves comfortable. What could it mean? She would think she was having a surprise party
if every one had not come empty-handed. Perhaps it was a joke on her. If so, they would find
she would take it pleasantly.

There was not enough in the house to feed half that crowd, but she had the phone, and she fairly
made the orders fly for a while.

When her husband came home from his office, he was surprised to find the parlors filled with
company. While helping the guests, he turned to his wife, saying, "Why, this is a sort of surprise,
is it not?"

Mama's face flamed, and she looked right down to her nose without saying a word.

"Why did you not tell me you were going to invite them, and I would have brought home some
flowers?" said Honey's papa.

Honey, who sat next to her papa, resplendent in a white dress and flowing curls, clutched his
sleeve, and said: "It's my party papa. I 'wited 'em frew the phone. Honey likes to have c'ean
c'o'es on, and have comp'ny."

It was the visitors' turn now to blush, but Honey's papa and mama laughed so heartily it made
them feel that it was all right even if Honey had sent out the invitations. And not one went
home without extending an invitation to her host and hostess to another dinner or supper, and
in every one Honey was included.

"Just what she wanted," said her papa, as he tossed her up in his arms and kissed her. Then,
turning to his wife, he said, "Never mind, mother, she will learn better as she grows older."--Mrs.
A. E. C. Maskell.

ONE OF FATHER'S STORIES

When children, nothing pleased us more than to listen to father's stories. Mother Goose melodies
were nothing beside them. In fact, we never heard fairy stories at home; and when father told
of his boyhood days, the stories had a charm which only truth can give. I can hear him now,
as he would reply to our request for a story by asking if he had ever told us how his father
tried to have a "raising" without rum. Of course we had heard about it many times, but we were
sure to want our memories refreshed; so we would sit on a stool at his feet or climb upon his
knee, while he told us this story:--

"My grandfather, George Hobbs, was one of the pioneers of the Kennebec Valley. He had an indomitable
will, and was the kind of man needed to subdue a wilderness and tame it into a home. He was
a Revolutionary pensioner, having enlisted when only twelve years of age. He was too young
to be put in the ranks, and was made a waiter in camp. When I was a boy, I can remember that
he drove twenty miles, once a year, to Augusta, Maine's capital, to draw his pension. Snugly
tucked under the seat of his sleigh was a four-gallon keg and a box. The keg was to be filled
with Medford rum for himself, and the box with nuts and candy for his grandchildren. After
each meal, as far back as father could remember, grandfather had mixed his rum and water in
a pewter tumbler, stirred in some brown sugar with a wooden spoon, and drunk it with the air
of one who was performing an unquestionable duty.

"Grandfather was a ship-carpenter by trade, and therefore in this new country was often employed
to frame and raise buildings. Raisings were great social events. The whole neighborhood went,
and neighbors covered more territory than they do now. The raising of a medium-sized building
required about one hundred and fifty men, and their good wives went along to help in the preparation
of the dinner. The first thing on the day's program was the raising, and not a stroke of work
was done until all had been treated to a drink of rum, the common liquor of the day. After
the frame was erected, one or two men, whose courage fitted them for the feat, had the honor
of standing erect on the ridge-pole and repeating this rhyme:--

  'Here is a fine frame,
    Stands on a fine spot;
  May God bless the owner,
    And all that he's got.'

Men would sometimes walk the ridge-pole, and sometimes one, more daring than the others, would
balance himself on his head upon it.

"Then followed a bountiful dinner, in which meat and potatoes, baked beans, boiled and fried
eggs, Indian pudding, and pumpkin pies figured prominently. Often as many as one hundred and
twenty-five eggs were eaten. After dinner came wrestling, boxing, and rough-and-tumble contests,
in which defeat was not always taken with the best of grace.

"This was before the subject of temperance was agitated much in the good old State of Maine.
The spirit of it, however, was awakening in the younger generation. My father was enthusiastic
over it, and announced his intention of raising his new house without the aid of rum. To grandfather
this was no trifling matter. It was the encroachment of new ideas upon old ones--a pitting
of the strength of the coming generation against his own. To his mind, no less than to father's,
a principle was involved, and the old soldier prepared to fight his battle. With some spirit
he said to father, 'It cannot be done, Jotham; it cannot be done.' But father was just as sure
that it could. It was grandfather's task to fit the frame. He went industriously to work, and
father thought that he had quietly yielded the point.

"The day for the raising came, the first in that part of the country to be conducted on temperance
principles. There were no telephones to spread the news, but long before the day arrived, everybody,
far and near, knew that Jotham Hobbs was going to raise his new house without rum. The people
came, some eager to help to establish the era of temperance, and some secretly hoping that
the project would fail. A generous dinner was cooking indoors; for the host intended to refuse
his guests nothing that was good. The song of mallets and hammers rang out, and the timbers
began to come together; but the master framer was idle. Over by the old house door sat grandfather.
He positively refused to lend a hand to the enterprise unless treated to his rum. For a time
the work progressed rapidly; then there came a halt. There was a place where the timbers would
not fit. After much delay and many vain attempts to go on with the work, father asked grandfather
to help; but he only shook his head, and grimly replied that it was ten to one if it ever came
together without rum. There were more vain attempts, more delays. Finally, father, seeing that
he must yield or give up the work, got some rum and handed it to grandfather. The old man gravely
laid aside his pipe, drank the Medford, and walked over to the men. He took a tenon marked
ten and placed it in a mortise marked one. The problem was solved. He had purposely marked
them in that way, instead of marking them alike, as was customary. With a sly twinkle in his
eye he said, 'I told you it was ten to one if it ever came together.'

"But the cause of temperance had come to stay, and grandfather met his Waterloo when Squire
Low built his one-hundred-foot barn. Three hundred men were there to see that it went up without
rum. Grandfather and a kindred spirit, Old Uncle Benjamin Burrill, stood at a safe distance,
hoping to see another failure. But section after section was raised. The rafters went on, and
finally the ridge-pole. The old men waited to see no more. They dropped their heads, turned
on their heels, and walked away."

These events occurred between 1830 and 1840. Since then the cause of temperance has made rapid
progress.

In the State Capitol at Augusta, Maine, is a petition sent to the legislature in 1835 by one
hundred and thirty-nine women of Brunswick, Maine. It is a plea for a prohibitory law, and
is, probably, the first attempt made to secure a legislative enactment against the liquor traffic.
One paragraph, which is characteristic of the whole document, is worth quoting:--

"We remonstrate against this method of making rich men richer and poor men poorer; of making
distressed families more distressed; of making a portion of the human family utterly and hopelessly
miserable, debasing the moral nature, and thus clouding with despair their temporal and future
prospects."

This petition met with no recognition by that legislature. There were many customs to be laid
aside, many prejudices to be overcome, and it was not till 1851 that Maine became a prohibition
State. Since that time her health and wealth have steadily increased, in greater proportion
than other States which have not adopted temperance principles; and public sentiment, which
is a powerful ally, is against the liquor traffic.

ETHEL HOBBS WALTERS.

WHAT RUM DOES

I was sitting at my breakfast-table one Sunday morning, when I was called to my door by the
ringing of the bell. There stood a boy about fourteen years of age, poorly clad, but tidied
up as best he could. He was leaning on crutches; for one leg was off at the knee.

In a voice trembling with emotion, and with tears coursing down his cheeks, he said: "Mr. Hoagland,
I am Freddy Brown. I have come to see if you will go to the jail and talk and pray with my
father. He is to be hanged tomorrow for the murder of my mother. My father was a good man,
but whisky did it. I have three little sisters younger than myself. We are very, very poor,
and have no friends. We live in a dark and dingy room. I do the best I can to support my sisters
by selling papers, blacking boots, and doing odd jobs; but Mr. Hoagland, we are very poor.
Will you come and be with us when father's body is brought home? The governor says we may have
his body after he is hanged."

I was deeply moved to pity. I promised, and made haste to the jail, where I found his father.

He acknowledged that he must have murdered his wife, for the circumstances pointed that way,
but he had not the slightest remembrance of the deed. He said he was crazed with drink, or
he never would have committed the crime. He said: "My wife was a good and faithful mother to
my little children. Never did I dream that my hand could be guilty of such a crime."

The man could bravely face the penalty of the law for his deed, but he broke down and cried
as if his heart would break when he thought of leaving his children in a destitute and friendless
condition. I read and prayed with him, and left him to his fate.

The next morning I made my way to the miserable quarters of the children. I found three little
girls upon a bed of straw in one corner of the room. They were clad in rags. They would have
been beautiful girls had they had the proper care. They were expecting the body of their dead
father, and between their cries and sobs they would say, "Papa was good, but whisky did it."

In a little time two strong officers came bearing the body of the dead father in a rude pine
box. They set it down on two old rickety stools. The cries of the children were so heartrending
that the officers could not endure it, and made haste out of the room.

In a moment the manly boy nerved himself, and said, "Come, sisters, kiss papa's face before
it is cold." They gathered about his face and smoothed it down with kisses, and between their
sobs cried out: "Papa was good, but whisky did it! Papa was good, but whisky did it!"

I raised my heart to God and said, "O God, did I fight to save a country that would derive
a revenue from a traffic that would make a scene like this possible?"--Youth's Outlook.

MY MOTHER'S RING

I am living now on borrowed time. The sun of my allotted life-day has set, and with the mellow
twilight of old age there come to my memory reflections of a life which, if not well spent,
has in it enough of good at least to make these reflections pleasant. And yet, during all the
years in which I have responded to the name Carter Brassfield, but a single fortnight of time,
it seems to me, is worth recounting.

