To-night, at any rate, he could not detach himself from her. He tried repeatedly to talk to
the girl on his left, a noble-faced child fresh out of the schoolroom, who in three years'
time would be as much Letty Sewell's superior in beauty as in other things. But the effort
was too great. The strenuous business of the day had but left him--in fatigue and reaction--the
more athirst for amusement and the gratification of another set of powers. He turned back to
Letty, and through course after course they chattered and sparred, discussing people, plays
and books, or rather, under cover of these, a number of those topics on the borderland of passion
whereby men and women make their first snatches at intimacy--till Mrs. Watton's sharp grey
eyes smiled behind her fan, and the attention of her neighbour, Lord Fontenoy--an uneasy attention--was
again and again drawn to the pair.

Meanwhile, during the first half of dinner, a chair immediately opposite to Tressady's place
remained vacant. It was being kept for the eldest son of the house, his mother explaining carelessly
to Lord Fontenoy that she believed he was "Out parishing somewhere, as usual."

However, with the appearance of the pheasants the door from the drawing-room opened, and a
slim dark-haired man slipped in. He took his place noiselessly, with a smile of greeting to
George and his neighbour, and bade the butler in a whisper aside bring him any course that
might be going.

"Nonsense, Edward!" said his mother's loud voice from the head of the table; "don't be ridiculous.
Morris, bring back that hare entree and the mutton for Mr. Edward."

The newcomer raised his eyebrows mildly, smiled, and submitted.

"Where have you been, Edward?" said Tressady; "I haven't seen you since the town-hall."

"I have been at a rehearsal. There is a parish concert next week, and I conduct these functions."

"The concerts are always bad," said Mrs. Watton, curtly.

Edward Watton shrugged his shoulder. He had a charming timid air, contradicted now and then
by a look of enthusiastic resolution in the eyes.

"All the more reason for rehearsal," he said. "However, really, they won't do badly this time."

"Edward is one of the persons," said Mrs. Watton in a low aside to Lord Fontenoy, "who think
you can make friends with people--the lower orders--by shaking hands with them, showing them
Burne-Jones's pictures, and singing 'The Messiah' with them. I had the same idea once. Everybody
had. It was like the measles. But the sensible persons have got over it."

"Thank you, mamma," said Watton, making her a smiling bow.

Lady Tressady interrupted her talk with the squire at the other end of the table to observe
what was going on. She had been chattering very fast in a shrill, affected voice, with a gesticulation
so free and French, and a face so close to his, that the nervous and finicking squire had been
every moment afraid lest the next should find her white fingers in his very eyes. He felt an
inward spasm of relief when he saw her attention diverted.

"Is that Mr. Edward talking his Radicalism?" she asked, putting up a gold eyeglass--"his dear,
wicked Radicalism? Ah! we all know where Mr. Edward got it."

The table laughed. Harding Watton looked particularly amused.

"Egeria was in this neighbourhood last week," he said, addressing Lady Tressady. "Edward rode
over to see her. Since then he has joined two new societies, and ordered six new books on the
Labour Question."

Edward flushed a little, but went on eating his dinner without any other sign of disturbance.

"If you mean Lady Maxwell," he said good-humouredly, "I can only be sorry for the rest of you
that you don't know her."

He raised his handsome head with a bright air of challenge that became him, but at the same
time exasperated his mother.

"That woman!" said Mrs. Watton with ponderous force, throwing up her hands as she spoke. Then
she turned to Lord Fontenoy. "Don't you regard her as the source of half the mischievous work
done by this precious Government in the last two years?" she asked him imperiously.

A half-contemptuous smile crossed Lord Fontenoy's worn face.

"Well, really, I'm not inclined to make Lady Maxwell the scapegoat. Let them bear their own
misdeeds."

"Besides, what worse can you say of English Ministers than that they should be led by a woman?"
said Mr. Watton, from the bottom of the table, in a piping voice. "In my young days such a
state of things would have been unheard of. No offence, my dear, no offence," he added hastily,
glancing at his wife.

Letty glanced at George, and put up a handkerchief to hide her own merriment.

Mrs. Watton looked impatient.

"Plenty of English Cabinet Ministers have been led by women before now," she said drily; "and
no blame to them or anybody else. Only in the old days you knew where you were. Women were
corrupt--as they were meant to be--for their husbands and brothers and sons. They wanted something
for somebody--and got it. Now they are corrupt--like Lady Maxwell--for what they are pleased
to call 'causes,' and it is that which will take the nation to ruin."

At this there was an incautious protest from Edward Watton against the word "corrupt," followed
by a confirmatory clamour from his mother and brother which seemed to fill the dining-room.
Lady Tressady threw in affected comments from time to time, trying hard to hold her own in
the conversation by a liberal use of fan and Christian names, and little personal audacities
applied to each speaker in turn. Only Edward Watton, however, occasionally took civil or smiling
notice of her; the others ignored her. They were engaged in a congenial task, the hunting of
the one disaffected and insubordinate member of their pack, and had for the moment no attention
to spare for other people.

"I shall see the great lady, I suppose, in a week or two," said George to Miss Sewell, under
cover of the noise. "It is curious that I should never have seen her."

"Who? Lady Maxwell?"

"Yes. You remember I have been four years out of England. She was in town, I suppose, the year
before I left, but I never came across her."

"I prophesy you will like her enormously," said Letty, with decision. "At least, I know that's
what happens to me when Aunt Watton abuses anybody. I couldn't dislike them afterwards if I tried."

"That, allow me to impress upon you, is not my disposition! I am a human being--I am influenced
by my friends."

He turned round towards her so as to appropriate her again.

"Oh! you are not at all the poor creature you paint yourself!" said Letty, shaking her head.
"In reality, you are the most obstinate person I know--you can never let a subject alone--you
never know when you're beaten."

"Beaten?" said George, reflectively; "by a headache? Well, there is no disgrace in that. One
will probably 'live to fight another day.' Do you mean to say that you will take no notice--no
notice--of all that array of facts I laid before you this morning on the subject of Captain
Addison?"

"I shall be kind to you, and forget them. Now, do listen to Aunt Watton! It is your duty. Aunt
Watton is accustomed to be listened to, and you haven't heard it all a hundred times before,
as I have."

Mrs. Watton, indeed, was haranguing her end of the table on a subject that clearly excited
her. Contempt and antagonism gave a fine energy to a head and face already sufficiently expressive.
Both were on a large scale, but without commonness. The old-lace coif she wore suited her waved
and grizzled hair, and was carried with conscious dignity; the hand, which lay beside her on
the table, though long and bony, was full of nervous distinction. Mrs. Watton was, and looked,
a tyrant--but a tyrant of ability.

"A neighbour of theirs in Brookshire," she was saying, "was giving me last week the most extraordinary
account of the doings at Mellor. She was the heiress of that house at Mellor"--here she addressed
young Bayle, who, as a comparative stranger in the house, might be supposed to be ignorant
of facts which everybody else knew--"a tumbledown place with an income of about two thousand
a year. Directly she married she put a Socialist of the most unscrupulous type--so they tell
me--into possession. The man has established what they call a 'standard rate' of wages for
the estate--practically double the normal rate--coerced all the farmers, and made the neighbours
furious. They say the whole district is in a ferment. It used to be the quietest part of the
world imaginable, and now she has set it all by the ears. She, having married thirty thousand
a year, can afford her little amusements; other people, who must live by their land, have their
lives worried out of them."

"She tells me that the system works on the whole extremely well," said Edward Watton, whose
heightened colour alone betrayed the irritation of his mother's chronic aggression, "and that
Maxwell is not at all unlikely to adopt it on his own estate."

Mrs. Watton threw up her hands again.

"The idiocy of that man! Till he married her he was a man of sense. And now she leads him by
the nose, and whatever tune he calls, the Government must dance to, because of his power in
the House of Lords."

"And the worst of it is," said Harding Watton, with an unpleasant laugh, "that if she were
not a handsome woman, her influence would not be half what it is. She uses her beauty in the
most unscrupulous way."

"I believe that to be entirely untrue," said Edward Watton, with emphasis, looking at his brother
with hostility.

George Tressady interrupted. He had an affection for Edward Watton, and cordially disliked
Harding. "Is she really so handsome?" he asked, bending forward and addressing his hostess.

Mrs. Watton scornfully took no notice.

"Well, an old diplomat told me the other day," said Lord Fontenoy--but with a cold unwillingness,
as though he disliked the subject--"that she was the most beautiful woman, he thought, that
had been seen in London since Lady Blessington's time."

"Lady Blessington! dear, dear!--Lady Blessington!" said Lady Tressady with malicious emphasis--an
unfortunate comparison, don't you think? Not many people would like to be regarded as Lady
Blessington's successor."

"In any other respect than beauty," said Edward Watton, haughtily, with the same tension as
before, "the comparison, of course, would be ridiculous."

Harding shrugged his shoulders, and, tilting his chair back, said in the ear of a shy young
man who sat next him:

"In my opinion, the Count d'Orsay is only a question of time! However, one mustn't say that
to Edward."

Harding read memoirs, and considered himself a man of general cultivation. The young man addressed,
who read no printed matter outside the sporting papers that he could help, and had no idea
as to who Lady Blessington and Count d'Orsay might be, smiled vaguely, and said nothing.

"My dear," said the squire, plaintively, "isn't this room extremely hot?"

There was a ripple of meaning laughter from all the young people, to many of whom this particular
quarrel was already tiresomely familiar. Mr. Watton, who never understood anything, looked
round with an inquiring air. Mrs. Watton condescended to take the hint and retire.

In the drawing-room afterwards Mrs. Watton first allotted a duty-conversation of some ten minutes
in length, and dealing strictly with the affairs of the parish, to Mrs. Hawkins, who, as clergyman's
wife, had a definite official place in the Malford House circle, quite irrespective of any
individuality she might happen to possess. Mrs. Hawkins was plain, self-conscious, and in no
way interesting to Mrs. Watton, who never took the smallest trouble to approach her in any
other capacity than that upon which she had entered by marrying the incumbent of the squire's
home living. But the civilities and respects that were recognised as belonging to her station
she received.

This however, alas! was not enough for Mrs. Hawkins, who was full of ambitions, which had a
bad manner, a plague of shyness, and a narrow income, were perpetually thwarting. As soon as
the ten minutes were over, and Mrs. Watton, who was nothing if not political, and saw no occasion
to make a stranger of the vicar's wife, had plunged into the evening papers brought her by
the footman, Mrs. Hawkins threw herself on Letty Sewell. She was effusively grateful--too grateful--for
the patterns lent her by Miss Sewell's maid.

"Did she lend you some patterns?" said Letty, raising her brows. "Dear me; I didn't know."

And her eyes ran cooly over Mrs. Hawkins's attire, which did, indeed, present a village imitation
of the delicate gown in which Miss Sewell had robed herself for the evening.

Mrs. Hawkins coloured.

"I specially told my nurse," she said hastily, "that of course your leave must be asked. But
my nurse and your maid seem to have made friends. Of course my nurse has plenty of time for
dressmaking with only one child of four to look after, and--and--one really gets no new ideas
in a poky place like this. But I would not have taken a liberty for the world."

Her pride and mauvaise honte together made both voice and manner particularly unattractive.
Letty was seized with the same temper that little boys show towards flies.

"Of course I am delighted!" she said indifferently. "It's so nice and good to have one's things
made at home. Your nurse must be a treasure."

All the time her gaze was diligently inspecting every ill-cut seam and tortured trimming of
the homemade triumph before her. The ear of the vicar's wife, always morbidly sensitive in
that particular drawing-room, caught a tone of insult in every light word. A passionate resentment
flamed up in her, and she determined to hold her own.

"Are you going in for more visits when you leave here?" she inquired.

"Yes, two or three," said Letty, turning her delicate head unwittingly. She had been throwing
blandishments to Mrs. Watton's dog, a grey Aberdeen terrier, who stood on the rug quietly regarding
her.

"You spend most of the year in visits, don't you?"

"Well, a good deal of it," said Letty.

"Don't you find it dreadfully time-wasting? Does it leave you leisure for any serious occupations
at all? I am afraid it would make me terribly idle!"

Mrs. Hawkins laughed, attempting a tone of banter.

Letty put up a small hand to hide a sudden yawn, which, however, was visible enough.

"Would it?" she said, with an impertinence which hardly tried to conceal itself. "Evelyn, do
look at that dog. Doesn't he remind you of Mr. Bayley?"

She beckoned to the handsome child of sixteen who had sat on George Tressady's left hand at
dinner, and, taking up a pinch of rose-leaves that had dropped from a vase beside her, she
flung them at the dog, calling him to her. Instead of going to her, however, the dog slowly
curled himself up on the rug, and, laying his nose along his front paws, stared at her steadily
with the expression of one mounting guard.

"He never will make friends with you, Letty. Isn't it odd?" said Evelyn, laughing, and stooping
to stroke the creature.

"Never mind; other dogs will. Did you see that adorable black Spitz of Lady Arthur's? She has
promised to give me one."

The two cousins fell into a chatter about their county neighbours, mostly rich and aristocratic
people, of whom Mrs. Hawkins knew little or nothing. Evelyn Watton, whose instincts were quick
and generous, tried again and again to draw the vicar's wife into the conversation. Letty was
determined to exclude her. She lay back against the sofa, chatting her liveliest, the whiteness
of her neck and cheek shining against the red of the damask behind, one foot lightly crossed
over the other, showing her costly little slippers with their paste buckles. She sparkled with
jewels as much as a girl may--more, indeed, in Mrs. Hawkins's opinion, than a girl should.
From head to foot she breathed affluence, seduction, success--only the seduction was not for
Mrs. Hawkins and her like.

The vicar's wife sat flushed and erect on her chair, disdaining after a time to make any further
effort, but inwardly intolerably sore. She could not despise Letty Sewell, unfortunately, since
Letty's advantages were just those that she herself most desired. But there was something else
in her mind than small jealousy. When Letty had been a brilliant child in short frocks, the
vicar's wife, who was scarcely six years older, had opened her heart, had tried to make herself
loved by Mrs. Watton's niece. There had been a moment when they had been "Madge" and "Letty"
to each other, even since Letty had "come out." Now, whenever Mrs. Hawkins attempted the Christian
name, it stuck in her throat; it seemed, even to herself, a familiarity that had nothing to
go upon; while with every succeeding visit to Malford, Letty had dropped her former friend
more decidedly, and "Madge" was heard no more.

The gentlemen, deep in election incident and gossip, were, in the view chiefly of the successful
candidate, unreasonably long in leaving the dining-room. When they appeared at last, George
Tressady once more made an attempt to talk to someone else than Letty Sewell, and once more failed.

"I want you to tell me something about Miss Sewell," said Lord Fontenoy presently in Mrs. Watton's
ear. He had been sitting silent beside her on the sofa for some little time, apparently toying
with the evening papers, which Mrs. Watton had relinquished to him.

Mrs. Watton looked up, followed the direction of his eyes towards a settee in a distant corner
of the room, and showed a half-impatient amusement.

"Letty? Oh! Letty's my niece--the daughter of my brother, Walter Sewell, of Helbeck. They live
in Yorkshire. My brother has my father's place--a small estate, and rents very irregular. I
often wonder how they manage to dress that child as they do. However, she has always had her
own way since she was a foot high. As for my poor brother, he has been an invalid for the last
ten years, and neither he nor his wife--oh! such a stupid woman!"--Mrs. Watton's energetic
hands and eyes once more, called Heaven to witness--"have ever counted for much, I should say,
in Letty's career. There is another sister, a little delicate, silent thing, that looks after
them. Oh! Letty isn't stupid; I should think not. I suppose you're alarmed about Sir George.
You needn't be. She does it with everybody."

The candid aunt pursued the conversation a little further, in the same tone of a half-caustic
indulgence. At the end of it, however, Lord Fontenoy was still uneasy. He had only migrated
to Malford House for the declaration of the poll, having spent the canvassing weeks mainly
in another part of the division. And now, on this triumphant evening, he was conscious of a
sudden sense of defective information, which was disagreeable and damping.

       *       *       *       *       *

When bedtime came, Letty lingered in the drawing-room a little behind the other ladies, on
the plea of gathering up some trifles that belonged to her. So that when George Tressady went
out with her to light her candle for her in the gallery, they found themselves alone.

He had fallen into a sudden silence, which made her sweep him a look of scrutiny as she took
her candlestick. The slim yet virile figure drawn to its full height, the significant, long-chinned
face, pleased her senses. He might be plain--she supposed he was--but he was, nevertheless,
distinguished, and extraordinarily alive.

"I believe you are tired to death," she said to him. "Why don't you go to bed?"

She spoke with the freedom of one accustomed to advise all her male acquaintance for their
good. George laughed.

"Tired? Not I. I was before dinner. Look here, Miss Sewell, I've got a question to ask."

"Ask it."

"You don't want to spoil my great day, do you? You do repent that headache?"

They looked at each other, dancing laughter in each pair of eyes, combined in his with an excited
insistence.

"Good-night, Sir George," she said, holding out her hand.

He retained it.

"You do?" he said, bending over her.

She liked the situation, and made no immediate effort to change it.

"Ask me a month hence, when I have proved your statements."

"Then you admit it was all pretence?"

"I admit nothing," she said joyously. "I protected my friend."

"Yes, by injuring and offending another friend. Would it please you if I said I missed you
very much at Malford to-day?"

"I will tell you to-morrow--it is so late! Please let me have my hand."

He took no notice, and they went hand-in-hand, she drawing him, to the foot of the stairs.

"George!" said a shrill, hesitating voice from overhead.

George looked up, and saw his mother. He and Letty started apart, and in another second Letty
had glided upstairs and disappeared.

"Yes, mother," said George, impatiently.

"Will you come here?"

He mounted, and found Lady Tressady a little discomposed, but as affected as usual.

"Oh, George! it was so dark--I didn't see--I didn't know. George, will you have half an hour's
talk with me after breakfast to-morrow? Oh, George, my dear boy, my dear boy! Your poor mammy
understands!"

She laid one hand on his shoulder and, lifting her feather fan in the other, shook it with
playful meaning in the direction whither Letty had departed.

George hastily withdrew himself. "Of course I will have a talk with you, mother. As for anything
else, I don't know what you mean. But you really must let me go to bed; I am much too tired
to talk now. Good-night."

Lady Tressady went back to her room, smiling but anxious.

"She has caught him!" she said to herself; "barefaced little flirt! It is not altogether the
best thing for me. But it may dispose him to be generous, if--if I can play my cards."

Letty Sewell meanwhile had reached the quiet of a luxurious bedroom, and summoned her maid
to her assistance. When the maid departed, the mistress held long counsel with herself over
the fire: the general position of her affairs; what she desired; what other people intended;
her will, and the chances, of getting it. Her thoughts dealt with these various problems in
a skilled and business-like way. To a particular form of self-examination Letty was well accustomed,
and it had become by now a strong agent in the development of individuality, as self-examination
of another sort is said to be by other kinds of people.

She herself was pleasantly conscious of real agitation. George Tressady had touched her feelings,
thrilled her nerves, more than--Yes! she said to herself decidedly, more than anybody else,
more than "the rest." She thought of "the rest," one after the other--thought of them contemptuously.
Yet, certainly few girls in her own set and part of the country had enjoyed a better time--few,
perhaps, had dared so many adventures. Her mother had never interfered with her; and she herself
had not been afraid to be "talked about." Dances, picnics, moonlight walks; the joys of outrageous
"sitting-out," and hot rivalries with prettier girls; of impertinences towards the men who
didn't matter, and pretty flatteries towards the men who did--it was all pleasant enough to
think of. She could not reproach herself with having missed any chances, any opportunities
her own will might have given her.

And yet--well, she was tired of it!--out of love altogether with her maiden state and its opportunities.
She had come to Malford House in a state of soreness, which partly accounted, perhaps, for
such airs as she had been showing to poor Mrs. Hawkins. During the past year a particular marriage--the
marriage of her neighbourhood--had seemed intermittently within her reach. She had played every
card she knew--and she had failed! Failed, too, in the most humiliating way. For the bride,
indeed, was chosen; but it was not Letty Sewell, but one of Letty's girl-neighbours.

To-night, almost for the first time, she could bear to think of it; she could even smile at
it. Vanity and ambition alone had been concerned, and to-night these wild beasts of the heart
were soothed and placable.

Well, it was no great match, of course--if it came off. All that Aunt Watton knew about the
Tressadys had been long since extracted from her by her niece. And with Tressady himself Letty's
artless questions had been very effective. She knew almost all that she wished to know. No
doubt Ferth was a very second-rate "place"; and, since those horrid miners had become so troublesome,
his income as a coal-owner could not be what his father's had been--three or four thousand
a year, she supposed--more, perhaps, in good years. It was not much.

Still--she pressed her hands on her eyes--he was distinguished; she saw that plainly already.
He would be welcome anywhere.

"And we are not distinguished--that is just it. We are small people, in a rather dull set.
And I have had hard work to make anything of it. Aunt Watton was very lucky to marry as she
did. Of course, she made Uncle Watton marry her; but that was a chance--and papa always says
nobody else could have done it!"

She fell happily thinking of Tressady's skirmishes with her, her face dimpling with amusement.
Captain Addison! How amazed he would be could he know the use to which she had put his name
and his very hesitating attentions. But he would never know; and meanwhile Sir George had been
really pricked--really jealous! She laughed to herself--a low laugh of pure pleasure.

Yes--she had made up her mind. With a sigh, she put away from her all other and loftier ambitions.
She supposed that she had not money or family enough. One must face the facts. George Tressady
would take her socially into another milieu than her own, and a higher one. She told herself
that she had always pined for Parliament, politics, and eminent people. Why should she not
succeed in that world as well as in the Helbeck world? Of course she would succeed!

There was his mother--silly, painted old lady! She was naturally the great drawback; and Aunt
Watton said she was absurdly extravagant, and would ruin Tressady if it went on. All the more
reason why he should be protected. Letty drew herself sharply together in her pretty white
dressing-gown, with the feeling that mothers of that kind must and could be kept in their place.

A house in town, of course--and not in Warwick Square, where, apparently, the Tressadys owned
a house, which had been let, and was now once more in Sir George's hands. That might do for
Lady Tressady--if, indeed, she could afford it when her son had married and taken other claims
upon him.

Letty allowed her thoughts to wander dreamily on, envisaging the London life that was to be:
the young member, Lord Fontenoy's special friend and protege--the young member's wife making
her way among great people, giving charming little parties at Ferth--

