Figures 173 and 174 are equatorial plates of the first division, one showing only the larger
element of the heterochromosome pair (fig. 174, x), the other both elements (fig. 173, l and
s). In the late anaphase (fig. 175) the larger heterochromosome is often seen outside of the
polar mass, reminding one again of the "accessory" in the Orthoptera. Occasionally it is found
in some other isolated position (fig. 176). Equatorial plates of the second division show the
same conditions as in the other species; some contain the larger heterochromosome, others the
smaller one (fig. 177, a and b). It was impossible to draw anaphases of the second division
from a polar view and the lateral view showed nothing unusual, merely the longitudinal division
of all of the chromosomes.

The spermatids show some interesting variations from the other species which have been examined.
In figures 178 and 179 we have telophases of the second spermatocyte, showing centrosome and
archoplasm (fig. 178) and certain masses of deeply staining material in the cytoplasm (fig.
179, a{1}). Figures 180 and 181 are young spermatids showing the archoplasm from the second
spindle (a{2}) and a smaller, more deeply staining mass (a{1}), derived from the irregular
masses of the earlier stage (fig. 179, a{1}). In figures 182 and 183, the axial fiber has appeared
and the larger mass of archoplasm (a{2}) is being transformed into a sheath. The other body
remains unchanged. During the following stages this smaller archoplasmic body (a{1}) lies in
close contact with the axial fiber and sheath (a{2}), and gradually decreases in size (figs.
184-186) until it disappears in a slightly later stage. The acrosome seems to develop directly
out of the cytoplasm. The enigmatical body (a{1}), which is probably archoplasm from the first
maturation spindle, as it is not found in the cytoplasm of the first spermatocyte, may serve
as nutriment for the developing axial fiber. The sperm head has a peculiar triangular form,
staining more deeply on two sides.

Miscellaneous Coleoptera.

Considerable material from the spruce borers was collected at Harpswell, Maine, but the species
were not identified. Although these insects were in the pupa stage, most of the testes were
too old. There were no dividing spermatogonia and few spermatocyte mitoses. Most of the spermatocytes
contained 10 chromosomes, one of which was plainly an unequal pair. In a few testes the number
was 11, indicating that pupæ of two species had been collected. Figure 187 shows the metaphase
of first spermatocyte mitosis with the unequal pair in metakinesis. Figures 188 and 189 are
first spermatocyte equatorial plates of the two species, containing 10 and 11 chromosomes respectively.
Figure 190 is a first spermatocyte spindle in anaphase, showing the unequal pair behind the
other chromosomes. Figure 191 is an equatorial plate from a second spermatocyte, showing the
small chromosome. In figure 192 are shown several of the bivalent chromosomes, including the
unsymmetrical pair, from nuclear prophases of the first division, all from the same cyst.

Adalia bipunctata (family Coccinellidæ), the common lady beetle, has a very conspicuous pair
of unequal heterochromosomes, as may be seen in figures 193-197 (plate XIII). This would seem
to be a favorable form for determining the chromosome conditions in somatic cells, but no clear
equatorial plates were found in either larvæ or pupæ.

In Cicindela primeriana (family Cicindelidæ) there are 18 chromosomes in the spermatogonium
(fig. 198), one being small. The heterochromosome group is blended into a vacuolated sphere
in growth stages (figs. 199, 200). In the metaphase of the first division it is trilobed, or
tripartite (fig. 201), and in metakinesis, a small spherical chromosome separates from a much
larger V-shaped one (fig. 202). Equatorial plates of first and second spermatocytes are shown
in figures 203 and 204. Whole cysts of giant first spermatocytes were found both in growth
stages (fig. 205) and prophases (fig. 206). Here the heterochromosome group is plainly double
(fig. 205), and the conditions observed must have been due to the failure of a spermatogonial
mitosis to complete itself.

Several of the Carabidæ have been studied, and the material, though not especially favorable,
is interesting in that some members of the family have an unequal pair of heterochromosomes,
others an odd one. Chlænius æstivus (figs. 207-212), Chlænius pennsylvanicus (figs. 213-215),
and Galerita bicolor (fig. 216) have the unequal pair, while Anomoglossus emarginatus (figs.
217-223) has an odd heterochromosome (x), which behaves exactly like the larger heterochromosome
in other carabs.

In the Elateridæ and Lampyridæ we also have examples of the second type with the odd chromosome.
Two Elaters, species not determined (figs. 224-229 and 230-235), have each 19 chromosomes in
the spermatogonia (figs. 224 and 230), and in the first spermatocyte division an odd chromosome
(x) which is in each case the smallest. In the first of these Elaters, the female somatic number
was determined to be 20 (fig. 229). In the second Elater the pairs of second spermatocytes,
containing 9 and 10 chromosomes respectively in the two cells, were in nearly every case connected
as shown in figure 235, one pair of chromosomes not having separated completely in the first
mitosis. Of Ellychnia corrusca (family Lampyridæ) only the spermatogonial equatorial plate,
containing 19 chromosomes (x, the odd one) is given, as no material in maturation has yet been
obtained, and a comparative study of the germ cells of the Elateridæ and Lampyridæ will be
made as soon as suitable material can be secured.

In addition to the species of Coleoptera described here, two others, Coptocycla aurichalcea
and Coptocycla guttata have been studied by one of my students and the results published elsewhere
(Nowlin, '06). In both an even number of chromosomes (22, 18) was found in the spermatogonia,
one being very small and forming with a larger one an unequal pair which remained condensed
during the growth stage and separated into its larger and smaller components in the first spermatocyte
mitosis. The result of maturation, as in the other species here described and in Tenebrio molitor,
is dimorphism of the spermatozoa. The method of synapsis in Coptocycla is like that described
for Chelymorpha argus.

HEMIPTERA HOMOPTERA.

Aphrophora quadrangularis.

The abundance of Aphrophora at Harpswell, Maine, in June and July, 1905, suggested that it
might be well to examine at least one more of the Hemiptera homoptera for comparison with the
many species of Hemiptera heteroptera which have been recently reexamined by Wilson ('05, '05,
'06).

The larvæ only were collected, as they gave all the desired stages for a study of the spermatogenesis,
and also oögonia and synizesis and synapsis stages of the oöcytes. In the first collections
the testes were dissected out, but the many free follicles break apart so easily that the later
material was prepared by cutting out the abdominal segments which contained the reproductive
organs, and fixing those without dissection. The same methods of fixation and staining were
employed as for the Coleoptera. Hermann's safranin-gentian method was especially effective
with this material.

In Aphrophora the follicles of each testis are free, forming a dense cluster, each follicle
being connected with the vas deferens by a short duct. The very young follicles are spherical,
the older ones ovoid in form. The primary spermatogonia (plate XIV, fig. 237)--very clear cells
with a lobed nucleus which stains slightly--occupy the tip of the follicle. Next to these comes
a layer of cysts of secondary spermatogonia which are conspicuous for their deeper staining
quality (fig. 238). There appears to be no plasmosome in either class of spermatogonia. Figure
239 is the equatorial plate of a secondary spermatogonium. There are 23 chromosomes, two of
which are conspicuously larger than the others and evidently form a pair. The odd one is one
of the three next in size.

Next to the secondary spermatogonia are cysts of young spermatocytes, whose nuclei show a continuous
spireme and an elongated deeply staining chromatin rod which is the odd chromosome (fig. 240).
This is often more elongated than in the figure and more or less wormlike in appearance. A
pair of smaller chromatin masses may sometimes be detected at this stage, and are readily found
a little later (fig. 241) when the nucleus has enlarged and the spireme has become looser and
stains less deeply. Here the odd chromosome is more condensed, or shortened, and split. There
is no synizesis and no polarized or bouquet stage, but the nuclei of all of the spermatocytes
contain a continuous spireme throughout the growth stage. Synapsis must occur at the close
of the last spermatogonial mitosis before the spireme is formed. Figures 242 and 243 show a
slightly later growth stage. The form and connection of the "m-chromosome" pair (Wilson, '05{b})
comes out clearly here. Figure 244, from a safranin-gentian preparation, shows both the odd
chromosome and the m-chromosomes. Some time before the first mitosis, the spireme splits and
the pairs of granules embedded in linin are wonderfully distinct, both in iron-hæmatoxylin
and safranin-gentian preparations (fig. 245). The m-chromosomes have here formed a precocious
tetrad (m). Figure 246 is a similar stage from a safranin-gentian preparation. Figures 247
and 248 show the condensation of chromatin granules to form tetrads of various sizes, still
embedded in the linin spireme. As these tetrads come into the spindle without losing their
elongated form, it is evident that each one consists of two longitudinally split chromosomes
united end to end in synapsis and separated in the first maturation mitosis, which is therefore
reductional. The odd chromosome and the m-chromosomes show no longitudinal split in these figures,
but they may appear as in figure 249. Occasionally one of the tetrads takes the form of a cross
(fig. 249). In this figure the split "accessory" (x) lies against the nuclear membrane and
the archoplasmic material for the spindle is seen along one side of the nucleus. It is certain
here that the spindle fibers come from extranuclear material, not from nuclear substance, as
Paulmier ('99) describes for Anasa tristis.

Figures 250 and 251 show the first maturation mitosis as it usually appears in sections from
mercuro-nitric material stained with iron-hæmatoxylin. The odd chromosome is always more or
less eccentric and is attached by a spindle fiber to one pole. In Hermann material, considerably
destained, the tetrads and the odd chromosome appear as in figures 252, 253, and 254, the tetrads
being in position for a transverse division. The odd chromosome is always so placed that its
longitudinal split is at right angles to the axis of the spindle, as though it were to divide
in this mitosis. It does not do so, however, but goes to one daughter cell, always lagging
behind, as is shown in figures 255 and 256. Figures 257, a and b, are polar plates of the first
mitosis with 11 and 12 chromosomes, respectively, and figures 258, a, b, and c, show the polar
plates (a and c) each containing 11 chromosomes, and the odd chromosome at a different level
(b). The latter is a view of the anaphase which one often gets at three foci in one section.
Figures 259, a and b, are equatorial plates of the second mitosis with 11 and 12 chromosomes
respectively. Figure 260 shows a side view of the second spindle in metaphase, and figure 261
in anaphase. Figures 262 and 263 are daughter plates from two spindles showing the chromosome
content of the two equal classes of spermatozoa, one class containing 11 ordinary chromosomes,
the other 11 ordinary chromosomes plus the odd heterochromosome, for the odd chromosome divides
with the others in the second spindle as in Orthoptera (McClung and Sutton).

In figures 264 and 265 (plate XV) are seen the telophase of the two kinds of second spermatocytes,
one (fig. 265) showing the divided odd chromosome, which continues to stain more deeply after
the others have become diffuse. All of the spermatids (figs. 266-268) contain, in the early
stages of development, a body (n) which stains like chromatin, but increases in size from a
small granule in the telophase (figs. 264, 265) to the large dense body (n) seen in figure
267. This is probably homologous with the chromatin nucleolus described for the spermatids
of the Coleoptera. In addition to this, in one-half of the spermatid nuclei there is a condensed
mass of chromatin which is evidently the derivative of the odd chromosome of the spermatogonia
and spermatocytes (figs. 267 and 268, x). In common with the spermatids of other Hemiptera
these show two masses of archoplasm, the larger of which forms the sheath (s) of the axial
fiber of the tail, and the smaller the acrosome (a). The axial fiber grows out directly from
the centrosome, on either side of which there is a dense band forming the lateral boundary
of the middle piece. It will be seen that the odd chromosome of Aphrophora is in its behavior
precisely like the typical Orthopteran "accessory" of McClung, and similar to the odd chromosome
of the Coleoptera.

In various parts of the young male larvæ dividing cells were found and the number 23 determined
(fig. 269). Turning now to the female larvæ to determine the somatic number, the oögonia proved
to be more favorable for counting. Twenty-four chromosomes were present in equatorial plates
of oögonial mitoses (fig. 270), thus confirming Wilson's results for the Anasa group of the
Hemiptera heteroptera.

In examining sections of female larvæ stained with safranin-gentian-violet, I was surprised
to see a very marked polarized or bouquet stage and to find among the loops something resembling
the odd chromosome of the growing spermatocytes. It was difficult to get a clear view of this
body as it lay within the loops. In one section of a slightly earlier stage before synapsis,
there were found two pairs of chromosomes (fig. 271, x{1}, x{2}, and m{1}, m{2}) which were
stained with safranin in contrast with the violet spireme. These two pairs I interpret as being
(1) the homologues of the pair of m-chromosomes, which remain condensed during the growth stage
of the spermatocytes, and (2) a pair of heterochromosomes corresponding to the odd chromosome
of the male. Various combinations of these heterochromosomes are shown in figures 272-277.
Figures 278 and 279 were taken from mercuro-nitric material stained with iron-hæmatoxylin.
In section 278 the "bouquet" was cut through, showing the bivalent corresponding to the larger
pair in figure 271, and in figure 279 this element is seen behind the paler loops. The history
of these two pairs of heterochromosomes, which have not, so far as I know, been found before
in oöcytes, should be followed up in older ovaries, and related species should be examined
for similar phenomena.

LEPIDOPTERA.

Cacoecia and Euvanessa.

I had no intention of making an extended study of the spermatogenesis of the Lepidoptera, but
was interested to see if anything corresponding to the heterochromosomes of other orders could
be found. The material studied was the testes of the larvæ of Cacoecia cerasivorana and Euvanessa
antiopa. The number of chromosomes is large, but the equatorial plates are diagrammatically
clear. In both species 30 chromosomes are found in both first and second spermatocytes. In
both, one chromosome is larger (figs. 290 and 293, x). In the growth stage (figs. 283, 284)
there is a two-lobed body (or sometimes two separate spherical bodies) which seems to correspond
in size to the larger pair of chromosomes in the first spermatocyte. In iron-hæmatoxylin preparations
this pair is often obscured by parts of the spireme which are tangled around it. In safranin-gentian
preparations it stains, not like a plasmosome, but red like the heterochromosomes, while the
spireme is violet. The staining reaction at least suggests that this equal pair of chromosomes,
which may be traced through the synizesis stage (fig. 280), synapsis stage (figs. 281, 282),
growth stages (figs. 283, 284), and prophases (figs. 285-287), into the first spermatocyte
spindle (figs. 288, 290), and on to the second spermatocyte (figs. 289, 291, 292), is an equal
pair of heterochromosomes comparable to the equal pair of "idiochromosomes" found by Wilson
in Nezara ('05). As the various stages are practically the same in Euvanessa antiopa, but somewhat
clearer in Cacoecia, only one figure is given for Euvanessa--the equatorial plate of the first
spermatocyte (fig. 293).

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.

(1) An unequal pair of heterochromosomes has been found by the author in 19 species of Coleoptera
belonging to 8 families:

FAMILY.                 SPECIES.

I. Buprestidæ        Two spruce-borers, species not determined.

                     { 1. Chlænius æstivus.
II. Carabidæ         { 2. Chlænius pennsylvanicus.
                     { 3. Galerita bicolor.

                     { 1. Blepharida rhois.
                     { 2. Chelymorpha argus.
                     { 3. Coptocycla aurichalcea.
III. Chrysomelidæ    { 4. Coptocycla guttata.
                     { 5. Doryphora decemlineata.
                     { 6. Odontota dorsalis.
                     { 7. Trirhabda virgata.
                     { 8. Trirhabda canadense.

IV. Cicindelidæ      Cicindela primeriana.

V. Coccinellidæ      { Adalia bipunctata.
                     { Epilachna borealis.

VI. Scarabæidæ       Euphoria inda.

VII. Silphidæ        Silpha americana.

VIII. Tenebrionidæ   Tenebrio molitor.

(2) An odd chromosome, which behaves during the growth stage of the first spermatocytes like
the "accessory" of the Orthoptera, has been found in 4 species of Coleoptera,[A] belonging
to 3 families:

FAMILY.             SPECIES.

I. Carabidæ       Anomoglossus emarginatus.

II. Elateridæ     Two Elaters; species not determined.

III. Lampyridæ    Ellychnia corrusca.

(3) In most of the species of Coleoptera examined, the unequal pair or the odd chromosome remains
condensed during the growth period of the first spermatocyte, like the "accessory" of the Orthoptera
and the various heterochromosomes of the Hemiptera.

(4) Several of these species of Coleoptera have a synizesis stage in which the spermatogonial
number of short loops is massed at one side of the nucleus. This is followed by a synapsis
stage in which the loops straighten and unite in pairs, forming longer loops which soon spread
out in the nuclear space, and, with the exception of the heterochromosomes, unite to form a
continuous spireme.

(5) In several of the species of Coleoptera and in Aphrophora, it has been shown that a body
staining like chromatin develops in the spermatids, increasing in size for a time, then breaking
up into granules and disappearing. This body evidently has no relation to the heterochromosomes,
as it is the same for all of the spermatids. Its staining qualities suggest that it may be
material derived from the chromosomes. It is finally dissolved in the karyolymph.

(6) In iron-hæmatoxylin preparations the heterochromosomes of the Coleoptera vary greatly in
their staining properties during mitosis. In some species they stain exactly like the ordinary
chromosomes, in others the larger one of the unequal pair holds the stain more tenaciously
than the others and also than its smaller mate, and this is true in several cases where the
heterochromosome is smaller than the other chromosomes, which destain more readily. The odd
chromosome of the Elaters stains less deeply than the others in the first spermatocyte. In
the growth stage they stain more deeply, as a rule, than the spireme, with iron-hæmatoxylin
or thionin, stain red with safranin-gentian and green with Auerbach's methyl green-fuchsin
combination.

(7) Aphrophora quadrangularis agrees with the Anasa group of Hemiptera heteroptera in having
a pair of m-chromosomes and an odd chromosome in the spermatocytes, but differs from many of
that group in that the odd chromosome divides in the second mitosis instead of the first. It
also differs from other known forms in exhibiting heterochromosomes in certain stages of the
oöcytes.

(8) The two species of Lepidoptera examined have an equal pair of heterochromosomes.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] AUG. 20, 1906.--Since this paper was prepared, 19 other species of Coleoptera have been
studied. Of these, 17 have an unequal pair of heterochromosomes in the spermatocytes. Six belong
to the Chrysomelidæ, making 14 of that family that have been examined. Representatives of 4
new families--Melandryidæ, Lamiinæ, Meloidæ, Cerambycinæ have been studied. In only two species--1
Elater and 1 Lampyrid--has the odd chromosome been found in place of the unequal pair. No species
of Coleoptera has yet been examined in which one or the other of these two types of heterochromosomes
does not occur in the spermatocytes. Of the 42 species of Coleoptera whose germ cells have
been studied, 85.7 per cent are characterized by the presence of an unequal pair of heterochromosomes
in the male germ cells, 14.3 per cent by the presence of an odd chromosome.

COMPARISON OF RESULTS IN DIFFERENT SPECIES OF COLEOPTERA.

In number of chromosomes there is great variation, the smallest number (16) having been found
in Odontota dorsalis, and the largest (40) in Silpha americana. The difference in size is also
very marked, as may be seen by comparing the spermatogonial plates in figures 3 and 58 with
those shown in figures 94 and 141.

No other species of the Tenebrionidæ has yet been secured, and all of the other beetles examined
differ in a marked degree from Tenebrio molitor in the growth stages of the spermatocytes.
While in Tenebrio the chromatin stains very dark throughout the growth stage, and the unequal
pair can not be distinguished until the prophase of division ('05, plate VI, figs. 171-180),
in most of the others there are very distinct synizesis and synapsis stages, following the
last spermatogonial mitosis, then a spireme stage in which the condensed unequal pair of heterochromosomes
or the odd chromosome is conspicuous in contrast with the pale spireme, whether the preparation
is stained with iron-hæmatoxylin, gentian, or thionin. In Tenebrio molitor, the unequal pair
behaved in every respect like the other bivalent chromosomes. In the other forms, though it
behaves during the two maturation divisions like the symmetrical bivalents, it remains condensed
during the growth period like the "accessory" of the Orthoptera, the odd chromosome, "m-chromosomes,"
and "idiochromosomes" of the Hemiptera. In several cases the heterochromosomes of the Coleoptera
are associated with a plasmosome (figs. 22, 23, 63, 132, 158, 217), as is often true in other
orders. This peculiar pair of unequal heterochromosomes varies considerably in size during
the growth stage in some of the species studied, but changes very little in form, differing
in this respect from the "accessory" in some of the Orthoptera (McClung, '02) and from the
large idiochromosome in some of the Hemiptera (Wilson, '05).

The odd chromosome, so far as it has been studied, behaves precisely like the larger member
of the unequal pair without its smaller mate (figs. 219, 220, 226, 233). In the growth stage
it remains condensed and either spherical or sometimes flattened against the nuclear membrane
(figs. 217, 225, 231). In the first maturation mitosis it is attached to one pole of the spindle,
does not divide, but goes to one of the two second spermatocytes (figs. 233, 235). In the second
spermatocyte it divides with the other chromosomes, giving two equal classes of spermatids
differing by the presence or absence of this odd chromosome.

All of the evidence at hand leads to the conclusion that in the Coleoptera, the univalent elements
of all the pairs, equal and unequal, separate in the first spermatocyte mitosis and divide
quantitatively in the second. In this respect the behavior of the chromosomes in this order
appears to be much more uniform than in the Orthoptera and Hemiptera.

COMPARISON OF THE COLEOPTERA WITH THE HEMIPTERA AND LEPIDOPTERA.

As has been seen above, the conditions in the Coleoptera, so far as the heterochromosomes are
concerned, correspond very closely in final results with those in the Hemiptera heteroptera
and the Orthoptera. In minor details these chromosomes are less peculiar in the Coleoptera
than in either of the other orders. Even condensation during the growth stage is not universal,
and synapsis of the heterochromosomes apparently occurs simultaneously with that of the ordinary
chromosomes, instead of being delayed, as in many of the Hemiptera heteroptera.

Aphrophora (Hemiptera homoptera) agrees with the Anasa group of the Hemiptera heteroptera in
having a pair of condensed m-chromosomes, in the growth stage, but this pair is already united
in synapsis when first seen. It differs from Anasa, but agrees with Banasa and Archimerus in
exhibiting a typical odd chromosome which goes to one pole without division in the first spermatocyte,
and divides with the other chromosomes in the second spermatocyte. The odd chromosome in this
species of Hemiptera, therefore, behaves like that in the Coleoptera and Orthoptera. The most
interesting points in the results of this study of the germ cells of Aphrophora is the discovery
of two pairs of condensed chromosomes in certain phases of the growth stages of the oöcytes.
This has not been shown to be the case in any other species of Hemiptera, so far as I can ascertain.
It is now evident that in the Heteroptera homoptera there are at least two distinct classes
as to behavior of chromosomes. In one class we have the Aphids (Stevens, '05 and '06) and Phylloxera
(Morgan, '06) in which no heterochromosomes have been found, while in the other class are such
forms as Aphrophora with both a pair of m-chromosomes and a typical odd heterochromosome.

The two species of Lepidoptera examined indicate that here we may have conditions comparable
to those in Nezara--an equal pair of heterochromosomes whose only apparent peculiarity is their
condensed form during the growth stage. Doubtless the results of other investigators will soon
throw more light on the heterochromosomes of this order.

GENERAL DISCUSSION.

It will be seen from the foregoing that the results obtained in the study of the germ cells
of Tenebrio molitor have been confirmed in full for several species of Coleoptera, and in part
for 19[B] different species belonging to 8[B] families. It has also been shown that a different
type of Coleopteran spermatogenesis exists in at least 3 families, where an odd chromosome
like that in the Orthoptera occurs in place of the unequal pair. In all of these insects the
spermatozoa are distinctly dimorphic, forming two equal classes, one of which either contains
one smaller chromosome or lacks one chromosome.

The most difficult part of the work has been the determination of the somatic number of chromosomes
in the male and female. In some cases suitable material has been lacking; in others, though
material was abundant, no metaphases could be found in which the chromosomes were sufficiently
separated to be counted with certainty. In three species (in addition to Tenebrio molitor)
where the unequal pair is present, the female somatic cells have been shown to contain the
same number of chromosomes as the spermatogonia, but an equal pair in place of the unequal
pair of the male. In two new cases the male somatic number and size have been shown to be the
same as in the spermatogonia. In one of the Elateridæ, where the spermatogonial number is 19,
the female somatic number is 20, and in Aphrophora the numbers in male and female cells are
respectively 23 and 24. No exception has been found to the rule established by previous work
on the Coleoptera (Stevens, '05) and on the Hemiptera (Wilson, '05 and '06), that (1) in cases
where an unequal pair is present in the male germ cells, it is also present in the male somatic
cells, but is replaced in the female by an equal pair, each component being equal in volume
to the larger member of the unequal pair, and (2) in cases where an odd chromosome occurs in
the male, a pair of equal size are found in the female. It is therefore evident that an egg
fertilized by a spermatozoön (1) containing the small member of an unequal pair or (2) lacking
one chromosome, must develop into a male, while an egg fertilized by a spermatozoön containing
the larger element of an unequal pair of heterochromosomes or the odd chromosome must produce
a female.

Whether these heterochromosomes are to be regarded as sex chromosomes in the sense that they
both represent sex characters and determine sex, one can not decide without further evidence.

Comparison of the two types in Coleoptera, especially where, as in the Carabidæ, both occur
in one family, has suggested to me that here it is possible that the small chromosome represents
not a degenerate female sex chromosome, as suggested by Wilson, but some character or characters
which are correlated with the sex character in some species and not in others. Assuming this
to be the case, a pair of small chromosomes might be subtracted from the unequal pair, leaving
an odd chromosome. The two types would then be reduced to one. It may be possible to determine
the validity of this suggestion for particular cases by observation or experiment.

Since the first of this series of papers was published, there have appeared three important
papers by Prof. E. B. Wilson, bearing on the problem of sex determination in insects. These
papers are based on a study of many species of the Hemiptera heteroptera. These insects fall
into two classes--one in which a pair of "idiochromosomes," usually of different size, remain
separate and divide quantitatively in the first spermatocyte, conjugate and then separate in
the second maturation mitosis; and another class in which an odd chromosome--the "heterotropic"
chromosome--divides in one of the maturation mitoses, but not in the other. Wilson regards
the odd chromosome as the equivalent of the larger of the "idiochromosomes," its smaller mate
having disappeared. In the somatic cells of the former class he finds in the male the unequal
pair, in the female an equal pair, the smaller chromosome being replaced by an equivalent of
the larger "idiochromosome." In the latter class the male somatic cells contain the odd number,
the female somatic cells and oögonia an even number, the homologue of the odd chromosome of
the male being present and giving to the female one more chromosome than are found in the male.

