"You very likely must have seen or heard of the 'notification,' published in the 'London Gazette'
at the end of the month of December last, about the honors distributed in Canada in connection
with the 'Confederation.' In that 'notification' you must have seen that the names of 'myself
and Galt' are omitted, and it was stated in that notification that it must be 'substituted'
for the 'one' published on the 9th of July last, in which Galt's name and mine were inserted
as C. B. Now, you must recollect that some months ago I wrote you about a 'confidential communication'
of the Duke of Buckingham to Lord Monck, in order that it should be intimated to me and Gait,
that there was no precedent of a resignation of the Order of the Bath, and that the only way
left for the carrying out of Galt's wishes and mine would be by 'an order of Her Majesty ordering
our names to be struck off the roll.' The communication of the Duke having been made to me
in a confidential manner, I had no opportunity to answer it. I had written to Lord Monck to
ask the Duke's leave for communicating to me in no confidential manner the despatch of the
Duke, in order to give me an opportunity to answer it. I never had any answer from Lord Monck
to that request. To my great surprise, at the end of December last, I received from Lord Monck
a note, accompanied by the copy of a despatch from the Duke, informing me that a mode had been
found to meet my wishes and those of Galt, which consisted in the publication in the 'London
Gazette' of a 'notification' omitting our names, and such notification to be substituted for
the former one of July last.

"The reading of this last despatch more than astonished me, and my astonishment was greater
when I saw by the 'London Gazette' that it was carried into effect by the notification above
alluded to. I have had no more opportunity to answer the second despatch of the Duke than the
first one, which was marked 'confidential.' Allow me to add, that the 'Duke' expressed in his
'first communication' that he did not like to suggest that my name should be struck off the
roll, because an ungenerous construction now and hereafter might be made against me by those
not acquainted with the facts. Now, by the course followed, as explained in his second despatch,
I feel as badly treated as if the first course had been adopted. In one case my name would
have been ordered to be struck off the roll, and by the second course followed up, my name
was ordered to be omitted in the second notification. There is not much difference between
these two courses. I have written a letter to Lord Monck to complain of the second course followed
up, inasmuch as there being no reason assigned for the omission of my name in the second notification,
a construction ungenerous to myself and my children after me could now and hereafter be made.
Excuse me for troubling you so long about that C.B. matter. Now, with regard to the Hudson
Bay matter, not the least doubt that the speech of 'John A.' was very uncalled for and injudicious.
He had no business to make such a speech, and I told him so at the time-- that he ought not
to have made it. However, you must not attach too much importance to that speech. I myself
and several of my colleagues, and John A. himself, have no intention to commit any spoliation;
and, for myself in particular, I can say to you that I will never consent to be a party to
a measure or anything intended to be an act of spoliation of the Hudson Bay's rights and privileges.
I must bring this long epistle to a close.

"My kindest regards and respects to Mrs. Watkin.

"Remember me to your dear son, and believe me, my dear Mr. Watkin,

                              "Yours very truly,
                                "GEO. E. CARTIER.

"E. W. WATKIN, Esq."

UNFORTUNATE DISCUSSIONS.

These discussions were both unfortunate and embarrassing; in the course of them, I had suggested
that the way out of the difficulty was generously to offer a baronetcy to Mr. Cartier. During
the discussion Dr. Tupper arrived in England. He cordially agreed with me. He deplored the
mistake made, and, acting from his official position, and with the great judgment which he
has always shown, he was able to assist in the desired happy solution.

On the 22nd of April I received the following letter:--

                              "WESTMINSTER PALACE HOTEL,
                                "April 22nd, 1868.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"The Duke (of Buckingham) showed me (in strict confidence until after the official announcement
here) the copy of his telegram to Lord Monck, announcing the fact that the Queen had conferred
a baronetcy upon Mr. Cartier, and a C.B. upon Langevin, and was pleased to say that he was
very much indebted to me for having suggested it. I told him that I was satisfied that his
Grace had conferred a signal service to our country, which would be productive of much good.
Knowing how much pleasure this will give you I cannot forbear mentioning it, of course in confidence.

"I enclose a letter received to-day from our late lamented friend. Be good enough to return
it to me. Ought I to communicate his wishes to Messrs. Hurst &

Blackwell? I had a long interview with Mr. Cardwell to-day. He will do anything in his power
to aid in putting matters right in Nova Scotia, and is anxious that I should see Mr. Bright.
Mr. C. takes your view as to the Union question having been an issue before the people in 1863,
in the strongest manner.

                              "Yours faithfully,
                                "C. TUPPER.

"E. W. WATKIN, Esq., M.P."

I feel assured that Mr. Cartier was moved, solely, by a regard for the honor of his compatriots.

                              "OTTAWA,
                                "28th May, 1868.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"On Friday last, the 21st instant, our Parliament was prorogued. We have had a very hard and
laborious session. For my part, I had charge of the two most difficult measures, the Militia
and the Fortifications measures, which I carried through successfully, and which were sanctioned
on the 21st instant. Without being considered guilty of boasting, I can say, and every man
in Parliament will say, that I was the only one who could carry through these measures. My
Lower Canada Parliamentary strength supported me nobly. I consider that in carrying these two
measures to successful issue, I have rendered a good service to Canada, to England, and to
British transactions. I wanted to write you last week, before the closing of our session, but
really I could not find a moment for so doing. During ten days we sat three times a day, and
we had to attend our executive sittings during the very short intervals allowed us. I have
not as yet answered your so kind letter of the 24th April last, nor your also kind former one
of March last, and I hope you will have the goodness to excuse my delay. My dear Mr. Watkin,
I do really not know how to thank you for all that you have done for me with regard to the
injustice done me in the matter of the distribution of honors to the Confederation delegates,
and with regard to the baronetcy which the Queen intends to confer on me. As you remark in
your last note, I became aware of Her Majesty's intentions by a cable telegram to Lord Monck,
and the last mail has brought a despatch to Lord Monck from the Duke of Buckingham to apprise
me officially of Her Majesty's intentions, and to request me to send to the Colonial Office
my pedigree and my coat of arms, for the preparation of the letters patent to be issued. I
am now procuring all the information and things required by the Heralds' College. The first
telegram to Lord Monck was to offer me the baronetcy, and to ascertain if I would accept of
it. I took a few days to consider the matter, as I would not do anything which might not have
been approved by Galt and Langevin. Both of them urged me to accept; and consequently I made
Lord Monck aware of my acceptance. A few days afterwards came another cable telegram, informing
Lord Monck that the Queen had conferred on me the baronetcy dignity, and the C.B. on Langevin.
When the Queen's pleasure was announced in the House, there were cheers and approbation from
both sides of the House. I have not the least doubt that I am under obligation to Lord Derby
and to Lord Wharncliffe for their interference in my favour; and I must add, that I feel under
stronger obligation to you for the honor conferred on me, first, for your having moved so kindly
and so urgently Lord Wharncliffe, and, secondly, for your so chivalrous disinterestedness in
having yourself declined the royal mark of favour offered to you by Mr. Disraeli, on the ground
of the injustice at first done to me. My dear Mr. Watkin, I cannot forget such friendly and
disinterested conduct on your part. I hope it will be in my power, in return, to be useful
to you. Very likely I will have to go to England on the question of defence before the next
Session of our Parliament, and I will not fail to say the proper words to the proper quarters;
and if it were possible for me to do something by correspondence, I would gladly do it; but
I don't know how to proceed, and whom to move. Besides, I would not like to do or write anything
which might not meet your wishes. I would like very much to know your views on that delicate
question. I thank you for your suggestion to write a few lines to Lord Wharncliffe. I enclose
you a letter for him, which I leave open, in order that you should see it. If the letter meets
your views, be kind enough to seal it and to mail it to Lord Wharncliffe. I was so pleased
the other day to hear from our friend Brydges, that your dear son had arrived in Montreal,
and that his health is improving. I have not failed to let Langevin know your kind congratulations
to him. He feels very thankful for the interest you take in him. I showed him your last note
to me. I have duly transmitted to Mrs. Cartier and my daughters your kind message,--and they
all feel grateful to you. I enclose you the Militia and Fortification measures as they finally
passed. I enclose you also the return to an address for the correspondence and despatches on
the defence-fortification question. You may, perhaps, like to have all these papers. I enclose
you also the return to an address for the correspondence on the C.B. matter, and the report
of the Select Committee upon it; you will find the report of the Committee in the Notes and
Proceedings of the 15th of May. It seemed to me, that you might like to have these documents,
as you took such a degree of interest in Galt and myself. Do me the kindness to present my
best regards to Mrs. Watkin, and to remember me kindly to your daughter when you write her.

"We are threatened with a Fenian invasion in the course of June next. We are preparing to meet
it. It is too bad that the Imperial Government should allow such an hostile organization to
be formed in the United States without a word of remonstrance. In the hope of hearing from
you at your earliest convenience,

                              "Believe me, my dear Mr. Watkin,
                                "Your sincere and grateful friend,
                                  "GEO. ET. CARTIER.

"E. W. WATKIN, Esq., M.P. London."

PERMITTED INVASION.

Sir George Cartier's allusion to the neglect by our Government in permitting, without remonstrance,
the repeated invasion of Canada, makes one shiver with shame. As President Johnson said to
me in 1865, "Why don't your people remonstrate?"

My countrymen may feel assured that if remonstrances, firm and dignified, had anticipated each
known intended outrage--English and Irish-American conspiracies would have not been as now.

                              "ROSE HILL, NORTHENDEN, near MANCHESTER,
                                "12th August, 1868.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I, gladly, enclose a copy of the Gazette notice of your Baronetcy.

"I have had the fees at the Heralds' College, and also the stamps and expenses, through the
Home Office, duly paid, and I will send you the papers and receipts as soon as I receive them.

"The completion of this matter will close the somewhat intimate connection which now for some
years has given me, if trouble and anxiety, still deep pleasure and satisfaction,--in reference
to your now united Provinces.

                              "With best wishes allow me to remain,
                                "Yours very faithfully,
                                  "EDW. W. WATKIN.

"To the Hon. Sir G. E. CARTIER, Bart.,
  "Montreal, Canada."

                              "OTTAWA,
                                "18th September, 1868.

"MY DEAR SIR EDWARD,

"The last English mail has brought us the happy news that the honor of knighthood has been
conferred on you by the Queen.

"Allow me to offer you, Lady Watkin, and your dear son and daughter, my sincere and heartfelt
congratulations on the bestowal on you of so well deserved a distinction. You must bear in
mind that I do not forget that the honor so recently bestowed on you would have been conferred
on you a long time ago, had not your generous feelings towards me prompted you at one time
to decline the same distinction. Lady Cartier and my daughters gladly unite with me in this
expression of congratulation, which I now offer you, Lady Watkin, and your son and daughter.
I hope that your future election will not give you much trouble, and that Canada and the British
people will have again the benefit of your presence in Parliament.

"I may see you before long in England. Be kind enough to accept for you and Lady Watkin the
assurance of the kindest regards of myself, Lady Cartier, and my daughters, "And, believe me,
my dear Sir Edward, "Yours very truly,

                              "GEO. ET. CARTIER.

"Sir EDWARD W. WATKIN, M.P., Kt., London."

                              "London,
                                "Westminster Palace Hotel,
                                  "20th November, 1868.

"My dear Sir Edward,

"You cannot conceive how sorrowful I feel that the result of the election in Stockport was
adverse to you. I was watching the incidents and proceedings connected with that election with
such an interest and with such sure hope that you would be successful. You have no idea of
my grief and disappointment when I became aware of your defeat. Our friend Brydges has mentioned
to me some of the causes which have militated against you amongst your constituents, viz. your
having attended at the laying of the corner stone of a Roman Catholic School, and your drinking
the health of the 'Pope' at the lunch which ensued, and also the displeasure which you have
incurred from Mr. Bright and some of his friends for not having supported him in his motion
for Nova Scotia against the Confederation. I have already written to some of my colleagues
in Canada to let them know there the 'liberality' of these pretended 'Liberals' here. I hope
you will not remain a long time out of Parliament, and that very soon some vacancy will occur
which will give you an opportunity to be re-elected, and to serve and advocate again in the
Imperial Parliament, not only the interests of the three British Isles, but also the Colonial
interests, and particularly those of the Dominion of Canada, to which you have always attended
with such ability, zeal, and ardour, that you have now the everlasting gratitude of every Canadian.
I hope your electoral contretems will not deter you from your political pursuits. I would have
had such a pleasure in congratulating Lady Watkin on your electoral success.

"I hope Lady Watkin, Miss Watkin, and your son are enjoying good health. Have the goodness
to present my best regards to Lady Watkin, and to remember me kindly to your dear daughter
and son; and, my dear Sir Edward, reiterating to you my sincere thanks for all you have done
for me, and expecting the pleasure of seeing you very soon in London, believe me, as always,

                              "Your very sincere,
                                "And devoted friend,
                                  "GEO. ET. CARTIER.

"Sir EDWARD W. WATKIN, 21, Old Broad Street, London.

"On my leaving Canada Lady Cartier and my daughters have asked me not to forget to present
to you and Lady Watkin their best wishes and kindest regards, to remember them kindly to your
son, and to offer their compliments to Miss Watkin, in the hope of making her acquaintance
hereafter."

CHAPTER XXII.

Disraeli--Beaconsfield.

No one aided the cause of Canada more readily than Mr. Disraeli, and I ought to explain how
I first gained his confidence and kindness. But Mr. Philip Rose, who was his solicitor, his
friend, his executor; who had stuck by him "per angusta ad augusta," was of priceless service
in placing before him, from time to time, the facts, affecting Confederation, as I collected them.

My first acquaintance with Mr. Disraeli was the consequence of my connection, as an honorary
secretary, with the "Manchester Athenaeum," a literary institute, originated in 1835 by Richard
Cobden, on his return from a visit to his brother in the United States, a country at that time
on the rage for social clubs with classic names. The "Manchester Athenaeum," owing partly to
defective management and architectural costliness, partly to some years of bad trade and deficient
employment, and partly to an unfortunate sectarian conflict, had fallen into debt and difficulty;
and a few of the younger members, who had profited by the existence of the institution, came
to the rescue, and by various methods got rid of its debts, and set it fairly on the way again.
One method was, the holding of a great literary soiree in the Manchester Free Trade Hall. The
audience was more than 4,000. The President was Charles Dickens.

On the morning of the day before the soiree, which took place on Thursday, the 5th of October,
1843, I received a note, in these terms, from Mr. Cobden:--

                              "MOSLEY St,
                                "Wednesday.

"Dear Sir,

"Mr. Benj'n Disraeli, the author of 'Vivian Grey,' is at the Mosely Arms Hotel, with Mrs. Disraeli.

"I wish you would call and invite them to the soiree.

                              "Yours truly,
                                "R. COBDEN.

"Mr. E. Watkin,
  "High St."

I print the note exactly as it was written.

It has appeared to me, since, that Mr. Cobden at that time considered it necessary to identify
Mr. Disraeli as Mr. "Benj'n" Disraeli, "the author of Vivian Grey."

I called accordingly, without delay. Mr. Disraeli was out, but I found Mrs. Disraeli at home.
She was a little, plain, vivacious woman; one who, like an india-rubber toy, you have only
to touch, and it issues sound. But she was obviously no common-place woman. Her comments upon
what she had seen already in Manchester were acute, and, at times, decidedly humorous. They
were those of a shrewd observer. We became good friends. She promised, both for herself and
her husband, to attend the soiree; and, in answer to my further request that Mr. Disraeli would
speak, she said, she "could almost promise that he would." The soiree of the next evening was
brilliant. Dickens was at his very best; and it must have been difficult indeed to follow so
admirable a speaker. But Mr. Disraeli certainly shared the honours and the applause of this
great meeting. His speech, in fact, created so decided a sensation that I was asked to invite
him to preside at the soiree of the coming year of 1844,--which he did. Few, who heard it,
will forget the eloquent oration he delivered. I cannot forbear, out of place as it may seem
to some, here to quote the concluding portions of this remarkable address; an address which
I have never yet seen amongst the published speeches of Lord Beaconsfield:--

