Origin of the present Race of English.--In Southey's Letters of Espriella (Letter xxiv., p.
274., 3rd edit.), there is a remark, that the dark hair of the English people, as compared
with the Northern Germans, seems to indicate a considerable admixture of southern blood. Now,
in all modern ethnological works, this fact of present complexion seems to be entirely overlooked.
But it is a fact, and deserves attention. Either it is the effect of climate, in which case
the moral as well as the physical man must have altered from the original stock, or it arises
from there being more "ungerman" blood flowing in English veins than is acknowledged. May I
hazard a few conjectures?

1. Are we not apt to underrate the number of Romanised Celts remaining in England after the
Saxon Conquest? The victors would surely enslave a vast multitude, and marry many Celtic women;
while those who fled at the first danger would gradually return to their old haunts. Under
such circumstances, that the language should have been changed is no wonder.

2. Long before the Norman Conquest there was a great intercourse between England and France,
and many settlers from the latter country came over here. This, by the way, may account for
that gradual change of the Anglo-Saxon language mentioned as observable prior to the Conquest.

3. The army of the Conqueror was recruited from all parts of France, and was not simply Norman.
When the men who composed it came into possession of this country, they clearly must have sent
home for their wives and families; and many who took no part in the invasion no doubt came
to share the spoils. Taking this into account, we shall find the Norman part of the population
to have borne no small proportion to the then inhabitants of England. It is important to bear
in mind the probable increase of population since 1066 A.D.

TERRA MARTIS.

True Blue.--I find the following account of this phrase in my note-book, but I cannot at present
say whence I obtained it:--

    "The first assumption of the phrase 'true blue' was by the Covenanters
    in opposition to the scarlet badge of Charles I., and hence it was
    taken by the troops of Leslie in 1639. 38.

E. L. N.

"By Hook or by Crook."--The destruction caused by the Fire of London, A.D. 1666, during which
some 13,200 houses, &c., were burnt down, in very many cases obliterated all the boundary-marks
requisite to determine the extent of land, and even the very sites occupied by buildings, previously
to this terrible visitation. When the rubbish was removed, and the land cleared, the disputes
and entangled claims of those whose houses had been destroyed, both as to the position and
extent of their property, promised not only interminable occupation to the courts of law, but
made the far more serious evil of delaying the rebuilding of the city, until these disputes
were settled, inevitable. Impelled by the necessity of coming to a more speedy settlement of
their respective claims than could be hoped for from legal process, it was determined that
the claims and interests of all persons concerned should be referred to the judgment and decision
of two of the most experienced land-surveyors of that day,--men who had been thoroughly acquainted
with London previously to the fire; and in order to escape from the numerous and vast evils
which mere delay must occasion, that the decision of these two arbitrators should be final
and binding. The surveyors appointed to determine the rights of the various claimants were
Mr. Hook and Mr. Crook, who by the justice of their decisions gave general satisfaction to
the interested parties, and by their speedy determination of the different claims, permitted
the rebuilding of the city to proceed without the least delay. Hence arose the saying above
quoted, usually applied to the extrication of persons or things from a difficulty. The above
anecdote was told the other evening by an old citizen upwards of eighty, by no means of an
imaginative temperament.

J. D. S.

Putney, Feb. 1. 1851.

    [We insert the above, as one of the many explanations which have been
    given of this very popular phrase--although we believe the correct
    origin to be the right of taking fire-bote by hook or by crook. See
    NOTES AND QUERIES, Vol. i., pp. 281. and 405.]

Record of Existing Monuments.--I have some time since read your remarks in Vol. iii., p. 14.
of "NOTES AND QUERIES," on the Rev. J. Hewett's Monumentarum of Exeter Cathedral, and intend
in {117} a short time to follow the advice you have there given to "superabundant brass-rubbers,"
of copying the inscriptions in the churches and churchyards of the hundred of Manley. The plan
I intend to pursue is, to copy in full every inscription of an earlier date than 1750; also,
all more modern ones which are in any way remarkable as relating to distinguished persons,
or containing any peculiarity worthy of note. The rest I shall reduce into a tabular form.

The inscriptions of each church I shall arrange chronologically, and form an alphabetical index
to each inscription in the hundred.

By this means I flatter myself a great mass of valuable matter may be accumulated, a transcript
of which may not be entirely unworthy of a place on the shelves of the British Museum.

I have taken the liberty of informing you of my intention, and beg that if you can suggest
to me any plan which is better calculated for the purpose than the one I have described, you
will do so.

Perhaps you will have the goodness, if you know of any one who like myself is about to undertake
the task of copying inscriptions in his own neighbourhood, to inform me, that I may communicate
with him, so that, if possible, our plans may be in unison.

EDW. PEACOCK, JUN.

Bottesford Moors, Messingham, Kirton Lindsey.

    [We trust the example set by Mr. Hewett, and now about to be followed
    by our correspondent, is destined to find many imitators.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

FIVE QUERIES AND NOTES ON BOOKS, MEN, AND AUTHORS.

1. Newburgh Hamilton.--Can any of your readers inform me who Newburgh Hamilton was? He wrote
two pieces in my library, viz. (1.) Petticoat Plotter, a farce in two acts; acted at Drury
Lane and Lincoln's Inn Fields, London, 1720, 12mo. This has been mutilated by Henry Ward, a
York comedian, and actually printed by him as his own production, in the collection of plays
and poems going under his name, published in 1745, 8vo., a copy of which I purchased at Nassau's
sale, many years since. (2.) The Doating Lovers, or the Libertine Tamed, a comedy in five acts;
acted in Lincoln's Inn Fields. It is dedicated to the Duchess of Hamilton and Brandon, whose
"elegant taste and nice judgment in the most polite entertainments of the age," as well as
her "piercing wit," are eulogised. Accident gave me a copy of Mr. Hamilton's book-plate, which
consists of the crest and motto of the ducal race of Hamilton in a very curious framework,--the
top being a row of music-books, whilst the sides and bottom are decorated with musical instruments,
indicative, probably, of the tastes of Mr. Hamilton.

2. The Children's Petition.--I have also a very extraordinary little book, of which I never
saw another copy. It formerly belonged to Michael Lort, and is entitled

    "The Children's Petition, or a Modest Remonstrance of that Intolerable
    Grievance our Youth lie under, in the accustomed Severities of the
    School Discipline of this Nation. Humbly presented to the Consideration
    of the Parliament. Licensed Nov. 10. 1669, by Roger L'Estrange. London,
    1669. 18mo."

The object of this most singular production is to put down the flagellation of boys in that
particular part of the body wherein honour is said to be placed; and the arguments adduced
are not very easily answered. The author, whoever he was, had reason, as well as learning,
on his side. I am not aware of any other copy north the Tweed; but there may be copies in some
of the libraries south of that river.

3. Dr. Anthony Horneck.--Do any of the letters of the once celebrated Dr. Anthony Horneck exist
in any library, public or private? His only daughter married Mr. Barneveldt; and his son, who
served with Marlborough, left issue, which failed in the male line, but still exists in the
female line, in the representative of Henry William Bunting, Esq., the caricaturist. The writer
of these Queries is the direct descendant of Mrs. Barneveldt, and is anxious to know whether
any unpublished MSS. of his ancestors still exist. There was a Philip Horneck who in 1709 published
an ode inscribed to his excellency the Earl of Wharton, wherein he is described as LL.B., a
copy of which I have. There can be no doubt he is the individual introduced by Pope in the
Dunciad, book iii. line 152.; but what I wish to know is, whether he was a son of Dr. Horneck,
and a brother of the general.

4. In Clifford's History of the Paul of Tixall, the name of the real author of Gaudentio di
Lucca is given. Every reliance may be attached to the accuracy of the information there given,
not only on account of the undoubted respectability of the author, but from the evident means
of knowledge which he, as a Roman Catholic of distinction, must have had.

5. Bruce was a most upright, honest man, and recorded nothing but what he had seen; nevertheless,
as is always the case, a host of detractors buzzed about him, and he was so much vexed at the
impeachment of his veracity, that he let them get their own way. Munchausen, a veritable {118}
name--the real possessor of which died in October, 1817--was assumed, and poor Bruce was travestied
very cleverly, but most unjustly. The real author has not been ascertained; but at one time
it was believed to have been James Grahame, afterwards a Scotch barrister, and author of a
poem of much beauty, called The Sabbath. Circumstances which came to my knowledge, coupled
with the exceedingly loveable character of Grahame, render this belief now incredible; but
undoubtedly he knew who the real author was. The copy in my library is in two volumes: the
first, said to be the second edition, "considerably enlarged, and ornamented with twenty explanatory
engravings from original designs," is entitled Gulliver Revived: or the Vice of Lying properly
exposed, and was printed for the Kearsleys, at London, 1793. The second volume is called A
Sequel to the Adventures of Baron Munchausen, and is described as "a new edition, with twenty
capital copperplates, including the Baron's portrait; humbly dedicated to Mr. Bruce, the Abyssinian
traveller," was published by H. D. Symonds, Paternoster Row, 1796. I had for years sought for
an original copy of this very singular work, and I at last was so successful as to purchase
the one above described, which had been picked up by a bookseller at the sale of some books
originally forming part of the library at Hoddam Castle.

On looking over a copy of Sir John Mandeville,

    "Printed for J. Osborne, near Dockhead, Southwark; and James Hodges, at
    the Looking Glass, on London Bridge:"

I observe he gives--at least there--no account whatever of his peregrinations to the polar
regions; and the notion of ascribing to him the story of the frozen words is preposterous.
I have not in my library, but have read, the best edition of Sir John's Travels (I don't mean
the abominable reprint), but I do not remember anything of the kind there. Indeed Sir John,
like Marco Polo, was perfectly honest, though some of their informants may not have been so.

J. ME.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

The Witches' Prayer.--Can you inform me where I can find the epigram alluded to by Addison,
in No. 61. of the Spectator, as "The Witches' Prayer," which falls into verse either way, only
that it reads "cursing" one way, and "blessing" the other? Or is the epigram only a creation
of the pleasing author's fertile imagination?

DOUBTFUL.

St. John's Wood.

Water-buckets given to Sheriffs.--Can any of your readers inform me the origin of the delivery
of water-buckets, glazed and painted with the city arms, given to the sheriffs of London and
Middlesex at the expiration of the year of their shrievalty?

J. B. K.

Temple.

A Cracow Pike.--Can any of your readers tell me what a Cracow pike is? I have searched Meyrick's
works on Ancient Armour without finding any notice of such a weapon; but as those works have
no indexes one cannot be certain that there may not be some mention of it. I shall be obliged
by a description of the Cracow pike, or a reference to any authorities mentioning it, or its use.

I. H. T.

Meaning of Waste Book.--Can you or any of your readers inform me the origin of the term used
in book-keeping, viz., "Waste" book?

I am the book-keeper and cashier in an extensive firm, and I know there is very little wasted
that goes into our books bearing that name.

ONE WHO OFTEN RUNS FOR THE GREAT LEDGER.

Machell's MS. Collections for Westmoreland and Cumberland.--In the library of the dean and
chapter at Carlisle, are preserved six volumes in folio, which purport to be Collections for
the History of Westmoreland and Cumberland, made in the Reign of Charles II., by the Reverend
Thomas Machell. Have these collections been carefully examined, and their contents made use
of in any topographical publication?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Decking Churches at Christmas.--Does the custom of dressing the churches at Christmas with
holly, and other evergreens, prevail in any country besides England?

L.

Coinage of Germany.--I should wish to be referred to the names of the principal works on the
coinage of Germany; not merely the imperial, but that of sovereign prelates, abbeys, &c., that
struck money.

A. N.

Titles of Peers who are Bishops (Vol. iii., p. 23.).--Why is Lord Crewe always called so, and
not Bishop of Durham, considering his spiritual precedency? Was not Lord Bristol (who was an
Earl) always called Bishop of Derry?

Cx.

At Sixes and Sevens.--Shakspeare uses the well-known adage--"at sixes and sevens;" Bacon, Hudibras,
Arbuthnot, Swift, all use the proverb. Why should sixes and sevens be more congruous with disorder
than "twos and threes?" and whence comes the saying?

D. C.

Shaking Hands.--What is the origin of the custom of shaking hands in token of friendship? And
were the clasped hands (now the common symbol of Benefit Clubs) ever used as a signet, prior
to their adoption as such by the early Christians in their wedding rings; or, did these rings
{119} bear any other motto, or posy, than "Fides annulus castus" (i. e. simplex et sine gemmâ)?

J. SANSOM.

George Steevens.--Can any of your readers inform me whether a memoir of George Steevens, the
Shakspearian commentator, ever was published? Of course I have seen the biographical sketch
in the Gentleman's Magazine, the paragraph in Nichols' Anecdotes, and many like incidental
notices. Steevens, who died in January, 1800, left the bulk of his property to his cousin,
Miss Elizabeth Steevens, of Poplar; and as there is no reservation nor special bequest in the
will, I presume she took possession of his books and manuscripts. The books were sold by auction;
but what has become of the manuscripts?

A. Z.

Extradition.--The discussion which was occasioned, some time ago, by the sudden transference
of the word extradition into our diplomatic phraseology, must be still in the recollection
of your readers. Some were opposed to this change on the ground that extradition is not English;
others justified its adoption, for the very reason that we have no corresponding term for it;
and one gentleman resolved the question by urging that, "si le mot n'est pas Anglais, il mérite
de l'être." I believe there is no reference in "NOTES AND QUERIES" to this controversy; nor
do I now refer to it with any intention of reviving discussion on a point which seems to have
been set at rest by the acquiescence of public opinion. I wish merely to put one or two Queries,
which have been suggested to me by the fact that extradition is now generally employed as an
English word.

1. Is there any contingency in which the meaning of the word extradition may not be sufficiently
expressed by the verb to deliver up, or the substantive restitution?

2. If so, how has its place been supplied heretofore in our diplomatic correspondence?

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, Dec. 1850.

Singing of Metrical Psalms and Hymns in Churches.--1. When and how did the custom of singing
metrical psalms and hymns in churches originate? 2. By what authority was it sanctioned? 3.
At what parts of the service were these psalms and hymns directed to be introduced? 4. Was
this custom contemplated by the compilers of the Book of Common Prayer?

ARUN.

Ormonde Portraits.--I shall feel much obliged by information on the following points:--

1. Whether any portrait of Thomas Earl of Ormonde has been published? He died in the year 1614.

2. How many engraved portraits of Thomas, the famous Lord Ossory, have been issued? their dates,
and the engravers' names.

3. How many engraved portraits of the first and second Dukes of Ormonde, respectively, have
appeared? their dates, and engravers' names.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny, Jan. 31. 1851.

Tradescant.--In the inscription on the tomb of the Tradescants in Lambeth churchyard, which
it is proposed to restore as soon as possible, these two lines occur:

 "These famous antiquarians, that had been
  Both gardeners to the Rose and Lily queen."

Can any of your readers inform me when the elder Tradescant came over to England, and when
he was appointed royal gardener? Was it not in the reign of Elizabeth?

J. C. B.

Lambeth.

Arthur's Seat and Salisbury Craigs.--L. M. M. R. is very anxious to be informed as to the origin
of the name of Arthur's Seat and Salisbury Craigs, the well-known hill and rocks close to Edinburgh.

Lincoln Missal.--Is a manuscript of the missal, according to the use of the church of Lincoln,
known to exist? and, if so, where may it be seen?

EDWARD PEACOCK, JUN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

MEANING OF EISELL.

(Vol. iii., p. 66.)

I must beg a very small portion of your space to reply to your correspondent H. K. S. C., who
criticises so pleasantly my remarks on the meaning of "eisell." The question is: Does the meaning
MR. SINGER attaches to this word require in the passage cited the expression of quantity to
make it definite? I am disposed to think that a definite quantity may be sometimes understood,
in a well-defined act, although it be not expressed. On the other hand, your correspondent
should know that English idiom requires that the name of a river should be preceded by the
definite article, unless it be personified; and that whenever it is used without the article,
it is represented by the personal pronoun he. Though a man were able "to drink the Thames dry,"
he could no more "drink up Thames" than he could drink up Neptune, or the sea-serpent, or do
any other impossible feat.

I observed before, that "the notion of drinking up a river would be both unmeaning and out
of place." I said this, with the conviction that there was a purpose in everything that Shakspeare
wrote; and being still of this persuasion, allow me to protest against the terms "mere verbiage"
and "extravagant rant," which your correspondent applies to the passage in question. The poet
does not present common things as they appear to all men. Shakspeare's art was equally great,
{120} whether he spoke with the tongues of madmen or philosophers. H. K. S. C. cannot conceive
why each feat of daring should be a tame possibility, save only the last; but I say that they
are all possible; that it was a daring to do not impossible but extravagant feats. As far as
quantity is concerned, to eat a crocodile would be more than to eat an ox. Crocodile may be
a very delicate meat, for anything I know to the contrary; but I must confess it appears to
me to be introduced as something loathsome or repulsive, and (on the poet's part) to cap the
absurdity of the preceding feat. The use made by other writers of a passage is one of the most
valuable kinds of comment. In a burlesque some years ago, I recollect a passage was brought
to a climax with the very words, "Wilt eat a crocodile?" The immediate and natural response
was--not "the thing's impossible!" but--"you nasty beast!" What a descent then from the drinking
up of a river to a merely disagreeable repast. In the one case the object is clear and intelligible,
and the last feat is suggested by the not so difficult but little less extravagant preceding
one; in the other, each is unmeaning (in reference to the speaker), unsuggested, and, unconnected
with the other; and, regarding the order an artist would observe, out of place.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

St. John's Wood, Jan. 27. 1851.

P.S. In replying to Mr. G. STEPHENS, in reference to the meaning of a passage in the Tempest,
I expressed a wish that he would give the meaning of what he called a "common ellipsis" "stated
at full." This stands in your columns (Vol. ii., p. 499.) "at first," in which expression I
am afraid he would be puzzled to find any meaning.

       *       *       *       *       *

I might safely leave H. K. S. C. to the same gentle correction bestowed upon a neighbour of
his at Brixton some time since, by MR. HICKSON, but I must not allow him to support his dogmatic
and flippant hypercriticism by falsehood and unfounded insinuation, and I therefore beg leave
to assure him that I have no claim to the enviable distinction of being designated as the friend
of MR. HICKSON, to whom I am an utter stranger, having never seen him, and knowing nothing
of that gentleman but what his very valuable communications to your publication conveys.

I have further to complain of the want of truth in the very first paragraph of your correspondent's
note: the question respecting the meaning of "Eisell" does not "remain substantially where
Steevens and Malone left it;" for I have at least shown that Eisell meant Wormwood, and that
Shakspeare has elsewhere undoubtedly used it in that sense.

Again: the remark about the fashion of extravagant feats, such as swallowing nauseous draughts
in honour of a mistress, was quite uncalled for. Your correspondent would insinuate that I
attribute to Shakspeare's time "what in reality belongs to the age of Du Guesclin and the Troubadours."
Does he mean to infer that it did not in reality equally belong to Shakspeare's age? or that
I was ignorant of its earlier prevalence?

The purport of such remarks is but too obvious; but he may rest assured that they will not
tend to strengthen his argument, if argument it can be called, for I must confess I do not
understand what he means by his "definite quantity." But the phrase drink up is his stalking-horse;
and as he is no doubt familiar with the Nursery Rhymes[1], a passage in them--

 "Eat up your cake, Jenny,
  Drink up your wine."

may perhaps afford him further apt illustration.

The proverb tells us "It is dangerous playing with edge tools," and so it is with bad puns:
he has shown himself an unskilful engineer in the use of MR. HICKSON's canon, with which he
was to have "blown up" MR. HICKSON's argument and my proposition; with what success may be
fairly left to the judgment of your readers. I will, however, give him another canon, which
may be of use to him on some future occasion: "When a probable solution of a difficulty is
to be found by a parallelism in the poet's pages, it is better to adopt it than to charge him
with a blunder of our own creating."

The allusion to "breaking Priscian's head" reminds one of the remark of a witty friend on a
similar occasion, that "there are some heads not easily broken, but the owners of them have
often the fatuity to run them against stumbling-blocks of their own making."

S. W. SINGER.

[Footnote 1: Nursery Rhymes, edited by James Orchard Halliwell, Esq., F. R. S., &c.]

       *       *       *       *       *

DESCENT OF HENRY IV.

(Vol. ii., p. 375.)

Under the head of "Descent of Edward IV.," S. A. Y. asks for information concerning "a popular,
though probably groundless tradition," by which that prince sought to prove his title to the
throne of England. S. A. Y., or his authority, Professor Millar, is mistaken in ascribing it
to Edward IV.--it was Henry IV. who so sought to establish his claim. 1787.

This Edmond, Earl of Lancaster, was succeeded by his son Thomas, who in the fifteenth year
of the reign of Edward II. was attainted of high treason. In the first of Edward III. his attainder
was reversed, and his son Henry inherited his titles, and subsequently was created Duke of
Lancaster. Blanche, daughter of Henry, first Duke of Lancaster, subsequently became his heir,
and was second wife to John of Gaunt, and mother to Henry IV.

Edward IV.'s claim to the throne was by descent from Lionel, Duke of Clarence, third son of
Edward III., his mother being Cicely, youngest daughter of Ralph Neville, Earl of Westmoreland.
Lionel married Elizabeth de Burgh, an Irish heiress, who died shortly after, leaving one daughter,
Philippa. Henry IV.'s right, however, was incontestable, being based on overwhelming might.
Philippa married Edward Mortimer, Earl of March. Roger, their son, succeeded his father in
his titles, and left one daughter, Anne, who married Richard, Earl of Cambridge, son of Edmund
Langley, Duke of York, which Edmund, Duke of York, was the fifth son of Edward III.; and thus
the line of York, though a younger branch of the royal family, took precedence, de jure, of
the Lancaster line. From this union sprang Richard, Duke of York, who was killed under the
walls of Sandal Castle, and who left his titles and pretensions to Edward, afterwards the fourth
king of that name.

The above is taken from several authorities, among which are Blackstone's Comm., book i. ch.
iii.; and Miss Strickland's Lives of the Queens of England, vols. ii. iii. iv.

TEE BEE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOSSIL ELK OF IRELAND.

(Vol. ii., p. 494.; Vol. iii., p. 26.)

W. R. C. states that he is anxious to collect all possible information as to this once noble
animal. I would have offered the following notes and references sooner, but that I was confident
that some abler contributor to the pages of "NOTES AND QUERIES" would have brought out of his
stores much to interest your natural history readers (whose Queries I regret are so few and
far between), and at the same time elucidate some points touched upon by W. R. C., as to the
period of its becoming extinct. Perhaps he would favour me with the particulars of "its being
shot in 1553," and a particular reference to the plate alluded to in the Nuremberg Chronicle,
as I have not been able to recognise in any of its plates the Cervus Megaceros, and I am disposed
to question the correctness of the statement, that the animal existed so lately as the period
referred to.

