"He was of a middle stature, more corpulent through [i.e. by means of] his clothes than in
his body, yet fat enough. His legs were very weak, having had, as was thought, some foul play
in his youth, or rather before he was born, that he was not able to stand at seven years of
age. That weakness made him ever leaning on other men's shoulders. His walk was even circular;
his hands are in that walk ever fiddling about----[a part of dress now laid aside]. He would
make a great deal too bold with God in his passion, both with cursing and swearing, and a strain
higher verging on blasphemy; but would, in his better temper, say, he hoped God would not impute
them as sins, and lay them to his charge, seeing they proceeded from passion. He had need of
great assistance, rather than hope, that would daily make thus bold with God."--DALZELL'S Sketches
of Scottish History , p. 86.

NOTE V. p. 78.--SIR MUNGO MALAGROWTHER

It will perhaps be recognised by some of my countrymen, that the caustic Scottish knight, as
described in the preceding chapter, borrowed some of his attributes from a most worthy and
respectable baronet, who was to be met with in Edinburgh society about twenty-five or thirty
years ago. It is not by any means to be inferred, that the living person resembled the imaginary
one in the course of life ascribed to him, or in his personal attributes. But his fortune was
little adequate to his rank and the antiquity of his family; and, to avenge himself of this
disparity, the worthy baronet lost no opportunity of making the more avowed sons of fortune
feel the edge of his satire. This he had the art of disguising under the personal infirmity
of deafness, and usually introduced his most severe things by an affected mistake of what was
said around him. For example, at a public meeting of a certain county, this worthy gentleman
had chosen to display a laced coat, of such a pattern as had not been seen in society for the
better part of a century. The young men who were present amused themselves with rallying him
on his taste, when he suddenly singled out one of the party:--"Auld d'ye think my coat-- auld-fashioned?--indeed
it canna be new; but it was the wark of a braw tailor, and that was your grandfather, who was
at the head of the trade in Edinburgh about the beginning of last century." Upon another occasion,
when this type of Sir Mungo Malagrowther happened to hear a nobleman, the high chief of one
of those Border clans who were accused of paying very little attention in ancient times to
the distinctions of Meum and Tuum, addressing a gentleman of the same name, as if conjecturing
there should be some relationship between them, he volunteered to ascertain the nature of the
connexion by saying, that the "chief's ancestors had stolen the cows, and the other gentleman's
ancestors had killed them,"--fame ascribing the origin of the latter family to a butcher. It
may be well imagined, that among a people that have been always punctilious about genealogy,
such a person, who had a general acquaintance with all the flaws and specks in the shields
of the proud, the pretending, and the nouveaux riches, must have had the same scope for amusement
as a monkey in a china shop.

Note VI. p. 98.--MRS. ANNE TURNER

Mrs. Anne Turner was a dame somewhat of the occupation of Mrs. Suddlechop in the text; that
is, half milliner half procuress, and secret agent in all manner of proceedings. She was a
trafficker in the poisoning of Sir Thomas Overbury, for which so many subordinate agents lost
their lives, while, to the great scandal of justice, the Earl of Somerset and his Countess
were suffered to escape, upon a threat of Somerset to make public some secret which nearly
affected his master, King James. Mrs. Turner introduced into England a French custom of using
yellow starch in getting up bands and cuffs, and, by Lord Coke's orders, she appeared in that
fashion at the place of execution. She was the widow of a physician, and had been eminently
beautiful, as appears from the description of her in the poem called Overbury's Vision. There
was produced in court a parcel of dolls or puppets belonging to this lady, some naked, some
dressed, and which she used for exhibiting fashions upon. Compare this curious passage in the
History of King James for the First Fourteen Years, 1651, with the Aulicus Coquinarius of Dr.
Heylin. Both works are published in the Secret History of King James.

Note VII. p. 110.--LORD HUNTINGLEN

The credit of having rescued James I. from the dagger of Alexander Ruthven, is here fictitiously
ascribed to an imaginary Lord Huntinglen. In reality, as may be read in every history, his
preserver was John Ramsay, afterwards created Earl of Holderness, who stabbed the younger Ruthven
with his dagger while he was struggling with the King. Sir Anthony Weldon informs us, that,
upon the annual return of the day, the King's deliverance was commemorated by an anniversary
feast. The time was the fifth of August, "upon which," proceeds the satirical historian, "Sir
John Ramsay, for his good service in that preservation, was the principal guest, and so did
the King grant him any boon he would ask that day. But he had such limitation made to his asking,
as made his suit as unprofitable, as the action for which he asked it for was unserviceable
to the King."

Note VIII. p. 115.--BUCKINGHAM

Buckingham, who had a frankness in his high and irascible ambition, was always ready to bid
defiance to those by whom he was thwarted or opposed. He aspired to be created Prince of Tipperary
in Ireland, and Lord High Constable of England. Coventry, then Lord Keeper, opposed what seemed
such an unreasonable extent of power as was annexed to the office of Constable. On this opposition,
according to Sir Anthony Weldon, "the Duke peremptorily accosted Coventry, 'Who made you Lord
Keeper, Coventry?' He replied, 'The King.' Buckingham replied, 'It's false; 'twas I did make
you, and you shall know that I, who made you, can, and will, unmake you.' Coventry thus answered
him, 'Did I conceive that I held my place by your favour, I would presently unmake myself,
by rendering up the seals to his Majesty.' Then Buckingham, in a scorn and fury, flung from
him, saying, 'You shall not keep it long;' and surely, had not Felton prevented him, he had
made good his word."--WELDON'S Court of King James and Charles.

 Note IX. p. 134.--PAGES IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

About this time the ancient customs arising from the long prevalence of chivalry, began to
be grossly varied from the original purposes of the institution. None was more remarkable than
the change which took place in the breeding and occupation of pages. This peculiar species
of menial originally consisted of youths of noble birth, who, that they might be trained to
the exercise of arms, were early removed from their paternal homes, where too much indulgence
might have been expected, to be placed in the family of some prince or man of rank and military
renown, where they served, as it were, an apprenticeship to the duties of chivalry and courtesy.
Their education was severely moral, and pursued with great strictness in respect to useful
exercises, and what were deemed elegant accomplishments. From being pages, they were advanced
to the next gradation of squires; from squires, these candidates for the honours of knighthood
were frequently made knights.

But in the sixteenth century the page had become, in many instances, a mere domestic, who sometimes,
by the splendour of his address and appearance, was expected to make up in show for the absence
of a whole band of retainers with swords and bucklers. We have Sir John's authority when he
cashiers part of his train.

   "Falstaff will learn the humour of the age,
    French thrift, you rogues, myself and skirted page."

Jonson, in a high tone of moral indignation, thus reprobated the
change.
   As reverend Chaucer says.
     HOST. Sir, you mistake;
   To play Sir Pandarus, my copy hath it,
   And carry messages to Madam Cressid;
   Instead of backing the brave steed o'mornings.
   To kiss the chambermaid, and for a leap
   O' the vaulting horse, to ply the vaulting house;
   For exercise of arms a bale of dice,
   And two or three packs of cards to show the cheat
   And nimbleness of hand; mistake a cloak
   From my lord's back, and pawn it; ease his pockets
   Of a superfluous watch, or geld a jewel
   Of an odd stone or so; twinge three or four buttons
   From off my lady's gown: These are the arts,
   Or seven liberal deadly sciences,
   Of pagery, or rather paganism,
   As the tides run; to which, if he apply him,
   He may, perhaps, take a degree at Tyburn,
   A year the earlier come to read a lecture
   Upon Aquinas, at Saint Thomas-a-Watering's
   And so go forth a laureate in hemp-circle."
                            The New Inn, Act I.

Note X. p. 135.--LORD HENRY HOWARD

Lord Henry Howard was the second son of the poetical Earl of Surrey, and possessed considerable
parts and learning. He wrote, in the year 1583, a book called, A Defensative against the Poison
of supposed Prophecies. He gained the favour of Queen Elizabeth, by having, he says, directed
his battery against a sect of prophets and pretended soothsayers, whom he accounted infesti
regibus, as he expresses it. In the last years of the Queen, he became James's most ardent
partisan, and conducted with great pedantry, but much intrigue, the correspondence betwixt
the Scottish King and the younger Cecil. Upon James's accession, he was created Earl of Northampton,
and Lord Privy Seal. According to De Beaumont the French Ambassador, Lord Henry Howard, was
one of the greatest flatterers and calumniators that ever lived.

Note XI. p. 136.--SKIRMISHES IN THE PUBLIC STREETS

Edinburgh appears to have been one of the most disorderly towns in Europe, during the sixteenth
and beginning of the seventeenth century. The Diary of the honest citizen Birrel, repeatedly
records such incidents as the following: "The 24 of November [1567], at two afternoon, the
Laird of Airth and the Laird of Weems met on the High Gate of Edinburgh, and they and their
followers fought a very bloody skirmish, where there were many hurt on both sides with shot
of pistol." These skirmishes also took place in London itself. In Shadwell's play of The Scowrers,
an old rake thus boasts of his early exploits:--"I knew the Hectors, and before them the Muns,
and the Tityretu's; they were brave fellows indeed! In these days, a man could not go from
the Rose Garden to the Piazza once, but he must venture his life twice, my dear Sir Willie."
But it appears that the affrays, which, in the Scottish capital, arose out of hereditary quarrels
and ancient feuds, were in London the growth of the licentiousness and arrogance of young debauchees.

Note XII. p. 144.--FRENCH COOKERY

The exertion of French ingenuity mentioned in the text is noticed by some authorities of the
period; the siege of Leith was also distinguished by the protracted obstinacy of the besieged,
in which was displayed all that the age possessed of defensive war, so that Brantome records
that those who witnessed this siege, had, from that very circumstance, a degree of consequence
yielded to their persons and opinions. He tells a story of Strozzi himself, from which it appears
that his jests lay a good deal in the line of the cuisine. He caused a mule to be stolen from
one Brusquet, on whom he wished to play a trick, and served up the flesh of that unclean animal
so well disguised, that it passed with Brusquet for venison.

Note XIII. p. 145.--CUCKOO'S NEST

The quarrel in this chapter between the pretended captain and the citizen of London, is taken
from a burlesque poem called The Counter Scuffle, that is, the Scuffle in the Prison at Wood
street, so called. It is a piece of low humour, which had at the time very considerable vogue.
The prisoners, it seems, had fallen into a dispute amongst themselves "which calling was of
most repute," and a lawyer put in his claim to be most highly considered. The man of war repelled
his pretence with much arrogance.

   "'Wer't not for us, thou swad,' quoth he,
    'Where wouldst thou fay to get a fee?
    But to defend such things as thee
            'Tis pity;
    For such as you esteem us least,
    Who ever have been ready prest
    To guard you and your cuckoo's nest,
            The City'"

The offence is no sooner given than it is caught up by a gallant citizen, a goldsmith, named Ellis.

  "'Of London city I am free,
    And there I first my wife did see,
    And for that very cause,' said he,
            'I love it.

    And he that calls it cuckoo's nest,
    Except he say he speaks in jest,
    He is a villain and a beast,--
            'I'll prove it!

    For though I am a man of trade,
    And free of London city made,
    Yet can I use gun, bill, and blade,
            In battle.

    And citizens, if need require,
    Themselves can force the foe retire,
    Whatever this low country squire
             May prattle.'"

The dispute terminates in the scuffle, which is the subject of the poem. The whole may be found
in the second edition of Dryden's Miscellany, 12mo, vol. iii. 1716.

Note XIV. p. 150.--BURBAGE

Burbage, whom Camden terms another Roscius, was probably the original representative of Richard
III., and seems to have been early almost identified with his prototype. Bishop Corbet, in
his Iter Boreale, tells us that mine host of Market Bosworth was full of ale and history.

  "Hear him, See you yon wood? there Richard lay
   With his whole army; look the other way,
   And lo, where Richmond, in a field of gorse,
   Encamp'd himself in might and all his force.
   Upon this hill they met.

            RICHARD CORBET'S Poems, Edition 1815, p. 193.

Note XV. p. 323.--MHIC-ALLASTAR-MORE

This is the Highland patronymic of the late gallant Chief of Glengarry. The allusion in the
text is to an unnecessary alarm taken by some lady, at the ceremonial of the coronation of
George IV., at the sight of the pistols which the Chief wore as a part of his Highland dress.
The circumstance produced some confusion, which was talked of at the time. All who knew Glengarry
(and the author knew him well) were aware that his principles were of devoted loyalty to the
person of his sovereign.

Note XVI. p. 323.--KING JAMES'S HUNTING BOTTLE

Roger Coke, in his Detection of the Court and State of England, London, 1697, p.70, observes
of James I., "The king was excessively addicted to hunting, and drinking, not ordinary French
and Spanish wines, but strong Greek wines, and thought he would compound his hunting with these
wines; and to that purpose, he was attended by a special officer, who was, as much as he could
be, always at hand to fill the King's cup in hunting when he called for it. I have heard my
father say, that, hunting with the King, after the King had drank of the wine, he also drank
of it; and though he was young, and of a healthful disposition, it so deranged his head that
it spoiled his pleasure and disordered him for three days after. Whether it was from drinking
these wines, or from some other cause, the King became so lazy and so unwieldy, that he was
trussed on horseback, and as he was set, so would he ride, without stirring himself in the
saddle; nay, when his hat was set upon his head he would not take the trouble to alter it,
but it sate as it was put on."

The trussing, for which the demipique saddle of the day afforded particular facility, is alluded
to in the text; and the author, among other nickcnacks of antiquity, possesses a leathern flask,
like those carried by sportsmen, which is labelled, "King James's Hunting Bottle," with what
authenticity is uncertain. Coke seems to have exaggerated the King's taste for the bottle.
Welldon says James was not intemperate in his drinking; "However, in his old age, Buckingham's
jovial suppers, when he had any turn to do with him, made him sometimes overtaken, which he
would the next day remember, and repent with tears. It is true he drank very often, which was
rather out of a custom than any delight; and his drinks were of that kind for strength, as
Frontiniack, Canary, high country wine, tent wine, and Scottish ale, that had he not had a
very strong brain, he might have been daily overtaken, though he seldom drank at any one time
above four spoonfuls, many times not above one or two."--Secret History of King James, vol.
ii., p. 3. Edin. 1811.

Note XVII. p. 325.--SCENE IN GREENWICH PARK

I cannot here omit mentioning, that a painting of the old school is in existence, having a
remarkable resemblance to the scene described in the foregoing chapter, although it be nevertheless
true that the similarity is in all respects casual, and that the author knew not of the existence
of the painting till it was sold, amongst others, with the following description attached to
it in a well-drawn-up catalogue:

                             "FREDERIGO ZUCCHERO
    "Scene as represented in the Fortunes of Nigel, by Frederigo
Zucchero, the King's painter.

"This extraordinary picture, which, independent of its pictorial merit, has been esteemed a
great literary curiosity, represents most faithfully the meeting, in Greenwich Park, between
King James and Nigel Oliphaunt, as described in the Fortunes of Nigel, showing that the author
must have taken the anecdote from authenticated facts. In the centre of the picture sits King
James on horseback, very erect and stiffly. Between the King and Prince Charles, who is on
the left of the picture, the Duke of Buckingham is represented riding a black horse, and pointing
eagerly towards the culprit, Nigel Olifaunt, who is standing on the right side of the picture.
He grasps with his right hand a gun, or crossbow, and looks angrily towards the King, who seems
somewhat confused and alarmed. Behind Nigel, his servant is restraining two dogs which are
barking fiercely. Nigel and his servant are both clothed in red, the livery of the Oliphaunt
family in which, to this day, the town-officers of Perth are clothed, there being an old charter,
granting to the Oliphaunt family, the privilege of dressing the public officers of Perth in
their livery. The Duke of Buckingham is in all respects equal in magnificence of dress to the
King or the Prince. The only difference that is marked between him and royalty is, that his
head is uncovered. The King and the Prince wear their hats. In Letitia Aikin's Memoirs of the
Reign of King James, will be found a letter from Sir Thomas Howard to Lord L. Harrington, in
which he recommends the latter to come to court, mentioning that his Majesty has spoken favourably
of him. He then proceeds to give him some advice, by which he is likely to find favour in the
King's eyes. He tells him to wear a bushy ruff, well starched; and after various other directions
as to his dress, he concludes, 'but above all things fail not to praise the roan jennet whereon
the King doth daily ride.' In this picture King James is represented on the identical roan
jennet. In the background of the picture are seen two or three suspicious-looking figures,
as if watching the success of some plot. These may have been put in by the painter, to flatter
the King, by making it be supposed that he had actually escaped, or successfully combated,
some serious plot. The King is attended by a numerous band of courtiers and attendants, all
of whom seem moving forward to arrest the defaulter. The painting of this picture is extremely
good, but the drawing is very Gothic, and there is no attempt at the keeping of perspective.
The picture is very dark and obscure, which considerably adds to the interest of the scene."

Note XVIII. p. 325.--KING JAMES'S TIMIDITY

The fears of James for his personal safety were often excited without serious grounds. On one
occasion, having been induced to visit a coal- pit on the coast of Fife, he was conducted a
little way under the sea, and brought to daylight again on a small island, or what was such
at full tide, down which a shaft had been sunk. James, who conceived his life or liberty aimed
at, when he found himself on an islet surrounded by the sea, instead of admiring, as his cicerone
hoped, the unexpected change of scene, cried TREASON with all his might, and could not be pacified
till he was rowed ashore. At Lockmaben he took an equally causeless alarm from a still slighter
circumstance. Some vendisses, a fish peculiar to the Loch, were presented to the royal table
as a delicacy; but the King, who was not familiar with their appearance, concluded they were
poisoned, and broke up the banquet "with most admired disorder."

Note XIX. p. 328.--TRAITOR'S GATE

Traitor's Gate, which opens from the Tower of London to the Thames, was, as its name implies,
that by which persons accused of state offences were conveyed to their prison. When the tide
is making, and the ancient gate is beheld from within the buildings, it used to be a most striking
part of the old fortress; but it is now much injured in appearance, being half built up with
masonry to support a steam- engine, or something of that sort.

Note XX. p. 361.--PUNISHMENT OF STUBBS BY MUTILATION

This execution, which so captivated the imagination of Sir Mungo Malagrowther, was really a
striking one. The criminal, a furious and bigoted Puritan, had published a book in very violent
terms against the match of Elizabeth with the Duke of Alencon, which he termed an union of
a daughter of God with a son of antichrist. Queen Elizabeth was greatly incensed at the freedom
assumed in this work, and caused the author Stubbs, with Page the publisher, and one Singleton
the printer, to be tried on an act passed by Philip and Mary against the writers and dispersers
of seditious publications. They were convicted, and although there was an opinion strongly
entertained by the lawyers, that the act was only temporary, and expired with Queen Mary, Stubbs
and Page received sentence to have their right hands struck off. They accordingly suffered
the punishment, the wrist being divided by a cleaver driven through the joint by force of a
mallet. The printer was pardoned.

Note XXI. p. 375.--RlCHIE MONIPLIES BEHIND THE ARRAS

The practical jest of Richie Moniplies going behind the arras to get an opportunity of teasing
Heriot, was a pleasantry such as James might be supposed to approve of. It was customary for
those who knew his humour to contrive jests of this kind for his amusement. The celebrated
Archie Armstrong, and another jester called Drummond, mounted on other people's backs, used
to charge each other like knights in the tilt-yard, to the monarch's great amusement. The following
is an instance of the same kind, taken from Webster upon Witchcraft. The author is speaking
of the faculty called ventriloquism.

But to make this more plain and certain, we shall add a story of a notable impostor, or ventriloquist,
from the testimony of Mr. Ady, which we have had confirmed from the mouth of some courtiers,
that both saw and knew him, and is this:--It hath been (saith he) credibly reported, that there
was a man in the court of King James his days, that could act this imposture so lively, that
he could call the King by name, and cause the King to look round about him, wondering who it
was that called him, whereas he that called him stood before him in his presence, with his
face towards him. But after this imposture was known, the King, in his merriment, would sometimes
take occasionally this impostor to make sport upon some of his courtiers, as, for instance:--

"There was a knight belonging to the court, whom the King caused to come before him in his
private room, (where no man was but the King, and this knight and the impostor,) and feigned
some occasion of serious discourse with the knight; but when the King began to speak and the
knight bending his attention to the King, suddenly there came a voice as out of another room,
calling the knight by name, 'Sir John, Sir John; come away, Sir John;' at which the knight
began to frown that any man should be unmannerly as to molest the King and him; and still listening
to the King's discourse, the voice came again, 'Sir John, Sir John; come away and drink off
your sack.' At that Sir John began to swell with anger, and looked into the next room to see
who it was that dared to call him so importunately, and could not find out who it was, and
having chid with whomsoever he found, he returned again to the King. The King had no sooner
begun to speak as formerly, but the voice came again, 'Sir John, come away, your sack stayeth
for you.' At that Sir John began to stamp with madness, and looked out and returned several
times to the King, but could not be quiet in his discourse with the King, because of the voice
that so often troubled him, till the king had sported enough."--WEBSTER on Witchcraft, p. 124.

Note XXII. p. 393.--LADY LAKE.

Whether out of a meddling propensity common to all who have a gossiping disposition, or from
the love of justice, which ought to make part of a prince's character, James was very fond
of enquiring personally into the causes celebres which occurred during his reign. In the imposture
of the Boy of Bilson, who pretended to be possessed, and of one Richard Haydock, a poor scholar,
who pretended to preach during his sleep, the King, to use the historian Wilson's expression,
took delight in sounding with the line of his understanding, the depths of these brutish impositions,
and in doing so, showed the acuteness with which he was endowed by Nature. Lady Lake's story
consisted in a clamorous complaint against the Countess of Exeter, whom she accused of a purpose
to put to death Lady Lake herself, and her daughter, Lady Ross, the wife of the Countess's
own son-in-law, Lord Ross; and a forged letter was produced, in which Lady Exeter was made
to acknowledge such a purpose. The account given of the occasion of obtaining this letter,
was, that it had been written by the Countess at Wimbledon, in presence of Lady Lake and her
daughter, Lady Ross, being designed to procure their forgiveness for her mischievous intention.
The King remained still unsatisfied, the writing, in his opinion, bearing some marks of forgery.
Lady Lake and her daughter then alleged, that, besides their own attestation, and that of a
confidential domestic, named Diego, in whose presence Lady Exeter had written the confession,
their story might also be supported by the oath of their waiting-maid, who had been placed
behind the hangings at the time the letter was written, and heard the Countess of Exeter read
over the confession after she had signed it. Determined to be at the bottom of this accusation,
James, while hunting one day near Wimbledon, the scene of the alleged confession, suddenly
left his sport, and, galloping hastily to Wimbledon, in order to examine personally the room,
discovered, from the size of the apartment, that the alleged conversation could not have taken
place in the manner sworn to; and that the tapestry of the chamber, which had remained in the
same state for thirty years, was too short by two feet, and, therefore, could not have concealed
any one behind it. This matter was accounted an exclusive discovery of the King by his own
spirit of shrewd investigation. The parties were punished in the Star Chamber by fine and imprisonment.

A,' all.                          BELDAM, ugly old woman.
ABYE, suffer for.                 BELIVE, by-and-by, presently.
ACCIDENS, grammar.                BENEVOLENCES, taxes illegally
AIGRE, sour, ill-natured.           exacted by the Kings of
AIN GATE, own way.                  England.
A' LEEVING, all living.           BIDE, keep, remain.
AMBLE, a peculiar gait of a       BIELDY BIT, sheltered spot.
  horse, in which both legs on    BIGGING, building.
  one side are moved forward      BILBOE, sword, rapier.
  at the same time.               BILLIES, brothers.
ANCE, once.                       BIRKIE, lively young fellow.
ANENT, concerning.                BLACK-JACK, leathern drinking-
ANGEL, an ancient English gold      cup.
  coin, worth about 10s., and     BLADES, dashing fellows, rakes.
  bearing the figure of an angel. BLATE, modest, bashful.
ARRAS, tapestry.                  BLETHERING, foolish, silly.
AUGHT, owe.                       BLITHE, BLYTHE, glad.
AULD, old.                        BLUE-COATS, lackeys.
AULD REEKIE, Edinburgh, in        BODDLE, a copper coin, value
  allusion to its smoke.            the sixth part of an English
AVISEMENT, counsel.                 penny.
AW, all.                          BODE, bid, offer.
AWMOUS, alms, a gift.             BOOKIE, book.
                                  BRAE, hill, hill-side. BANGED,
sprang, bounded.
BRAVE PIECE, fine thing.
BARNACLES, spectacles.            BRAW, fine, handsome.
BARNS-BREAKING, idle frolics.     BREAKING, kneading.
BAWBEE, halfpenny.                BREEKS, breeches, trousers.
BAXTER, baker.                    BROCHES, kitchen spits.
BEAR-BANNOCKS, barley cakes.      BROSE, pottage of mean and
BECKING, curtseying.                water.
BECKS, nods.                      BROWNIE, domestic goblin.
BEECHEN BICKERS, dishes of        BUCKET, cheat.
  beechwood.                      BUNEMOST, uppermost.

BURROWS-TOWN, borough-town. BUSS, kiss.

CALF-WARD, place where calves are kept in the field. CALLAN, CALLANT, lad. CANNILY, cautiously,
skilfully. CANNY, quiet. CANTLE, crown of the head. CARCANET, necklace. CARLE, fellow. CARLE-HEMPIE,
the strongest stalk of hemp. CARNIFEX, executioner. CAUFF, chaff. CAULDRIFE, chilly. CA'T,
call it. CAUP, cup. CAUSEY, pavement. CERTIE, faith, in truth. CHALMER, chamber. CHANGE-HOUSE,
roadside inn where horses are changed on a journey. CHALK, slash. CHAPPIT, struck. CHEEK-BY-JOWL,
CHEEK-BY-CHOWL, side by side. CHEERY, dagger. CHENZIE-MAIL, chain-mail. CHIELD, fellow. CHOPINES,
high shoes or clogs. CHUCKS, chuck-stones, as played by children. CHUFFS, clowns, simpletons.
CLAITHING, clothing.

CLAPPED LOOFS, crossed palms. CLATTER-TRAPS, rattle-traps. CLAUGHT, snatched. CLAVERING, idle
talking. CLEEK, hook. CLEW, clue. CLOOT, hoof. CLOUR, blow. CLOUTING, mending. COCK-A-LEEKIE,
COCK-A-LEEKY, leek soup in which a cock has been boiled. COIF, linen covering for the head.
COMPLOTS, plots, intrigues. COMPT, list, account, particulars. COMPTING-ROOM, counting-house.
COSHERING, being familiar and intimate. COUP, barter. COUP THE CRANS, go to wreck and ruin.
COUPIT, tumbled. CRAIG, rock; also neck. CRAP, creep. CRAW'D SAE CROUSE, crowed so proudly.
CULLY, one easily deceived, a dupe. CURN, grain. CUSSER, stallion. CUTTY-QUEAN, a loose woman.

