She had only one protector besides her grandfather, and that was a big, awkward boy named Christopher
Nubbles, called Kit for short. He had a very large mouth and a turned-up nose, and when he
spoke he had a habit of standing sidewise and twisting his head back over his shoulder. Everything
he did seemed funny, and little Nell laughed at him all the while, though she loved him almost
as much as she did her grandfather. He ran errands for them, and in the long winter evenings
she used to teach him to read and write.

Kit liked to be taught and even liked to be laughed at, and always ended by laughing himself,
with his mouth wide open and his eyes shut. He was the best-natured lad in the world, and would
have given his life to make little Nell happy.

She was not as happy as she seemed to her grandfather's eyes. There was some mystery about
the old man that she could not understand. Almost every night he left her to go to bed all
alone in the shop, and went away and did not come back till sunrise, when the door-bell woke
her and she let him in.

And, too, he always talked of the great fortune she was to have sometime--if only some mysterious
plan he was working on turned out right--the carriages and fine frocks and jewels. But the
plan seemed always to go wrong, and the poor old man grew sadder and sadder as he grew more feeble.

Often at night little Nell sat at the upper window, watching for him, crying, and fearing that
he might die or lose his mind; she never knew that Kit used to stand in the shadow of an archway
opposite and watch to see that no harm came to her, till she vanished and he knew she had gone
to bed.

What troubled little Nell most of all was a strange visitor her grandfather used to have. This
was a hideous man named Quilp, with the body of a dwarf and the head of a giant. His black
eyes were sharp and cunning, his face was always covered with a stubby beard and he had a cruel
smile that made him look like a panting dog. He had grizzled, tangled hair, crooked finger
nails, and wore a dirty handkerchief tied around his neck, instead of a collar. He used to
bring money to her grandfather, and little Nell more than once saw him look at her and at the
contents of the shop in a gloating way that made her shiver.

Indeed, everybody who ever met Quilp was afraid of him, and most afraid of all was his wife.
He had a habit of drinking scalding tea and of eating boiled eggs, shell and all, that quite
terrified her. Besides, he treated the poor woman cruelly. Sometimes, for instance, when she
displeased him, he made her sit bolt upright in a chair all night, without moving or going
to bed, while he sat smoking and making faces at her.

Little Nell often had to carry messages from her grandfather to the dwarf, and came to know
that he had somehow fallen into Quilp's power.

The fact was that the old man had been borrowing money from the dwarf for a long time, and
had spent it on the great plan, which he had thought sure to succeed, and he now owed the other
much more than all the shop and everything in it was worth.

Quilp had loaned the money because he thought when the wonderful plan succeeded he would make
the grandfather give him back very much more than he had loaned him. But when the old man continually
wanted to borrow more money and yet paid none back, the dwarf grew suspicious and tried hard
to find out what the great plan was. To do this he used to question little Nell and try to
persuade her to tell how her grandfather passed the time.

She would never tell him anything, but one day, when she had brought a message to his house,
the dwarf hid in a closet and listened while the child told his wife how her grandfather, every
night after Quilp had brought him money, went out and did not come home till daybreak, and
always sadly then. You see, little Nell was in such trouble that she had to tell somebody about
it and ask advice, and the dwarf's wife had always been very kind to her.

When Quilp heard the story he guessed the secret--that her grandfather, hoping to win more
for little Nell, had gambled away all the money. He was full of rage and sent word that he
would loan no more.

The old man was in great grief at this. His mind had not been strong for a long time, or this
foolish and wrong plan would never have misled him, and now, at the thought that he would have
no more chance to win the fortune for his grandchild, he fell ill. The child did her best to
comfort him, but he told her that if Quilp deserted them they would be no better than beggars.

"Let us be beggars then, and be happy," said little Nell, putting her arms around his neck.
"I would rather beg than live as we do now. If you are sorrowful now, let me know it. If you
are weaker, let me be your nurse. It breaks my heart to see you so and not to know why. Let
us leave this place and sleep in the fields in the country and never think of money again,
and I will beg for us both."

Neither had heard the dwarf, who had stolen into the shop behind them. Little Nell shrieked
when she saw him, and her grandfather sent her into her own room.

"So that is the way all the money I have loaned you has gone!" sneered Quilp. "Your precious
scheme to make a fortune was the gaming-table!"

The old man cried out at this, trembling, that he had done it all for little Nell; that he
had never staked a single penny for himself, or without praying that it might win for her good.
He told how he had begun gambling months before, knowing he must soon die, hoping thus to leave
her enough to live on; how, after losing all his own savings, he had borrowed and lost all
that, too. And he begged the dwarf to loan him a little more so that he might tempt luck again.

Any one but Quilp would have pitied the poor old man, but not he. He refused, and thinking
of a lie which would make the other yet more miserable, he told him as he left that it was
Kit who had told him where the money was going.

The first Kit knew of this was that night when little Nell came to tell him her grandfather
was very ill, and that he raved continually against Kit so that he must never come to the shop
again. Kit was stupefied at this, but there was no help for it, so little Nell went sorrowfully
back alone.

The Old Curiosity Shop belonged to the dwarf now and he at once moved into the parlor. He took
little Nell's own bed for himself and she had to sleep on a pallet on the floor up stairs.
She was busy nursing her grandfather, for he was very ill for some time, and she scarcely ever
came down because she was so afraid of the dwarf.

Quilp was waiting for the old man to die, thinking that then he would have the shop for his
own, and meantime he did a hundred disagreeable things, such as filling the house with strong
tobacco smoke from a big pipe he used all the time and driving every one away who came to ask
how the sick man was. He even drove off Kit when he came below the window to beg little Nell
to come and bring her grandfather to live at his own mother's house.

The old man would certainly have died if little Nell had not nursed him so faithfully, all
alone, till he grew better and at length was able to sit up.

But it was a bitter thing to live as they did, and one day little Nell begged her grandfather
to come away with her--to wander anywhere in the world, only so it was under God's sky and
away from every one that pursued them--and he agreed.

So that night they dressed and stole down stairs very quietly in order not to waken the dwarf
who was snoring frightfully in the back room, and went through the shop to the front door.
The bolts were rusty and creaked loudly, and, worst of all, they found the key was not in the
lock. Little Nell had to take off her shoes and creep into the back room to get it out of the
dwarf's pocket.

She was terribly frightened at the sight of Quilp, for he was having a bad dream, and was hanging
so far out of bed that he was almost standing on his head; his ugly mouth was wide open, and
his breath came in a sort of growl. But she found the key at last, and they unlocked the door
and came safely into the dark street.

The old man did not know where to go, but little Nell took his hand and led him gently away.

II

THE WANDERERS

It was a bright June morning. They walked through many city streets, then through more scattered
suburbs, and at last came to the open country. That night they slept at a cottage where the
people were kind to them, and all the next day they walked on and on.

At sunset they stopped to rest in a churchyard, where two men were sitting patching a Punch-and-Judy
show booth, while the figures of Punch, the doctor, the executioner and the devil were lying
on the grass waiting to be mended.

The men were mending the dolls very badly, so little Nell took a needle and sewed them all
neatly. They were delighted at this, and took the pair to the inn where they were to show the
Punch-and-Judy, and there they found them a place to sleep in an empty loft.

The next day the wanderers went on with the showmen. Whenever they came to a village, the booth
was pitched and the show took place, and they never left a town without a pack of ragged children
at their heels. The Punch-and-Judy show grew tiresome, but the company seemed better than none.
Little Nell was weary with walking, but she tried to hide it from her grandfather.

The inn at which they lodged the next night was full of showmen with trained dogs, conjurers
and others, hurrying to a town where there was to be a fair with horse-races, to which the
Punch-and-Judy partners were bound, and little Nell began to distrust their company.

To tell the truth, the others believed the child and the old man were running away from their
friends, and that a reward might be obtained for giving them up. The way in which the men watched
them frightened little Nell, and when they reached the scene of the fair she had determined
to escape.

It was the second day of the races before a chance came, and then, while the showmen's backs
were turned, they slipped away in the crowd to the open fields again.

These alarms and the exposure had begun to affect the old man. He seemed to understand that
he was not wholly in his right mind. He was full of the fear that he would be taken from her
and chained in a dungeon, and little Nell had great trouble in cheering him.

At evening when they were both worn out, they came to a village where stood a cottage with
the sign SCHOOL in big letters in its window. The pale old schoolmaster sat smoking in the
garden. He was a sad, solitary man, and loved little Nell when he first saw her, because she
was like a favorite pupil he once had. He made them sleep in the school-room that night, and
he begged them to stay longer next day, but little Nell was anxious to get as far as possible
from London and from the dwarf, who she was all the time in fear might find them. So they bade
the schoolmaster good-by and walked on.

Another day's journey left them so exhausted they could scarcely keep moving. They had almost
reached another village when they came to a tiny painted house on wheels with horses to draw
it. At its door sat a stout lady wearing a large bonnet, taking tea with a big drum for a table.

The lady, as it happened, had seen them at the fair, and had wondered then to see them in company
with a Punch-and-Judy show. Noticing how tired they were, she gave them tea and then took them
into the wagon with her to help them on their way.

The inside of the wagon was like a cozy room. It had a little bed in one end, and a kitchen
in the other, and had two curtained windows. As the wheels rattled on the old man fell asleep,
and the stout lady made little Nell sit by her and talk. In the wagon was a big canvas sign
that read:

    |                          |
    |     JARLEY'S WAXWORK     |
    |   ONE HUNDRED FIGURES    |
    |  THE FULL SIZE OF LIFE   |
    |   NOW EXHIBITED WITHIN   |
    ||

"I am Mrs. Jarley," the woman said, "and my waxwork is gone to the next town, where it is to
be exhibited." She thought little Nell and her grandfather were in the show business, too,
and when she found they were not, that they had no home, and did not even know where they were
going, she held up her hands in astonishment.

But it was easy to see that they were not ordinary beggars, and she was kind-hearted and wanted
to help them. So, after much thought, she asked little Nell if they would take a situation
with her. She explained that the child's duty would be to point out the wax figures to the
visitors and tell their names, while her grandfather could help dust them.

They accepted this offer very thankfully (for almost all the money they had brought was now
spent), and when the wagon arrived at the place of exhibition and the waxwork had been set
up, Mrs. Jarley put a long wand in little Nell's hand and taught her to point out each figure
and describe it:

"This, ladies and gentlemen," little Nell learned to say, "is Jasper Packlemerton, who murdered
fourteen wives by tickling the soles of their feet," or, "this is Queen Elizabeth's maid of
honor, who died from pricking her finger while sewing on Sunday."

She was quick to learn and soon became a great favorite with the visitors. Mrs. Jarley was
kind, and but for the fact that her grandfather's mind failed more and more every day little
Nell would have been quite happy.

One evening the two walked into the country beyond the town and a sudden thunder-storm arose.
They took shelter at an inn on the highroad, and while they waited there some rough men began
a noisy game of cards behind a screen.

The talk and the chink of the money roused the old man's failing senses. He imagined himself
still gambling to win the old fortune for little Nell. He made her give him the money she had
earned from the waxwork, joined the gamblers and in a few hours had lost it all. His insanity
had made him forget the presence of the child he so loved, and when the game was done it was
too late to leave the inn that night.

Little Nell had now only one piece of money left, a gold piece sewed in her dress. This she
had to change into silver and to pay a part for their lodging. When she was abed she could
not sleep for fear of the wicked men she had seen gambling.

When at last she fell asleep she waked suddenly to see a figure in the room. She was too frightened
to scream, and lay very still and trembled. The robber searched her clothing, took the rest
of the money and went out. She was dreadfully afraid he might return to harm her. If she could
get to her grandfather, she thought, she would be safe.

She opened the door softly, and in the moonlight saw the figure entering the old man's room.
She caught a view of his face and then she knew that the figure was her own grandfather, and
that, crazed by the gambling scene, he himself had robbed her!

All that night little Nell lay and cried. She knew, to be sure, that her grandfather was not
a thief and that he did not know what he was doing when he stole her money; but she knew, too,
that if people found out he was crazy they would take him away from her and shut him up where
she could not be with him, and of this she could not bear to think.

The next day, when they had gone back to the waxwork, she was in even greater terror for fear
he should rob Mrs. Jarley, their benefactress. So, to lessen the chance of this, each day she
gave him every penny she earned. This, she soon knew, he gambled away, for often he was out
all night, and even seemed to shun her; so she was sad and took many long walks alone through
the fields.

One evening it happened that she passed a meadow where, beside a hedge, a fire was burning,
with three men sitting and lying around it. She was in the shadow and they did not see her.
One, she saw, was her grandfather, and the others were the gamblers with whom he had played
at the inn on the night of the storm.

Little Nell crept close. They were tempting the poor daft old man to steal the money from Mrs.
Jarley's strong box, and while she listened he consented.

She ran home in terrible grief. She tried to sleep, but could not. At last she could bear it
no longer. She went to the old man's room and wakened him.

"I have had a dreadful dream," she told him, "a dream of an old gray-haired man like you robbing
people of their gold. I can not stay! I can not leave you here. We must go."

To the crazy old man she seemed an angel. He dressed himself in fear, and with her little basket
on her arm she led him out of the house, on, away from the town, into the country, far away
from Mrs. Jarley, who had been so kind to them, and from the new home they had found.

They climbed a high hill just as the sun was rising, and far behind them little Nell caught
a last view of the village. As she looked back and thought how contented they had been there
at first, and of the further wandering that lay before them now, poor little Nell burst into tears.

But at length she bravely dried her tears lest they sadden her grandfather, and they went on.
When the sun grew warm they fell asleep on the bank of the canal, and when they awoke in the
afternoon some rough canal men took them aboard their dirty craft as far as the next town.

The men were well-meaning enough and meant the travelers no harm, but after a while they began
to drink and quarreled and fought among themselves, and little Nell sat all night, wet with
the rain, and sang to them to quiet them.

The place to which they finally came was a town of wretched workmen who toiled all day in iron
furnaces for little wages, and were almost as miserable and hungry as the wanderers themselves.
No one gave them anything, and they lived for three days with only two penny loaves to eat
(for all their money was now gone), and slept at night in the ashes of some poor laborer's hut.

The fourth day they dragged themselves into the country again. Little Nell's shoes were worn
through to the bare ground, her feet were bleeding, her limbs ached and she was deadly faint.
They begged, but no one would help them.

The child's strength was almost gone, when they met a traveler who was reading in a book as
he walked along. He looked up as they came near. It was the kind old schoolmaster in whose
school they had slept before they met Mrs. Jarley in her house on wheels. When she saw him
little Nell shrieked and fell unconscious at his feet.

The schoolmaster carried her to an inn near by, where she was put to bed and doctored under
his care, for she was very weak. She told him all the story of their wanderings, and he heard
it with astonishment and wonder to find such a great heart and heroism in a child.

He had been appointed schoolmaster, he told her, in another town, to which he was then on his
way, and he declared they should go with him and he would care for them. He hired a farm wagon
to carry little Nell, and he and the old man walked beside it, and so they came to their new place.

Next door to the school-house was the church. A very old woman, nearly a hundred years old,
had lived in a tenement near by to keep the keys and open the church for services. The old
woman was now dead, and the schoolmaster went to the clergyman and asked that her place be
given to the grandfather, so that he and little Nell could live in the house next to his own
dwelling.

The child sewed the tattered curtains and mended the worn carpet and the schoolmaster trimmed
the long grass and trained the ivy before the door. In the evening a bright fire was kindled
and they all three took their supper together, and then the schoolmaster said a prayer before
they went gladly to bed.

They were very happy in this new home. The old man lost the insane thirst for gaming and the
mad look faded from his eyes, but poor little Nell grew paler and more fragile every day. The
long days of hunger and nights of exposure had sowed the seeds of illness.

The whole village soon grew to love her. Many came to visit her and the schoolmaster read to
her each day, so that she was content even when she could no longer walk abroad as she had
always done.

As she lay looking out at the peaceful churchyard, where so many whose lives were over lay
sleeping, it seemed to her that the painful past was only an ugly vision. And at night she
often dreamed of the roof opening and a column of bright faces, rising far into the sky, looking
down on her asleep. The quiet spot outside remained the same, save that the air was full of
music and a sound of angels' wings.

So the weeks passed into winter, and though she came soon to know that she was not long for
earth, she thought of death without regret and of heaven with joy.

III

THE SEARCH

It is not to be supposed, of course, that the flight of little Nell and her grandfather from
the Old Curiosity Shop was not noticed. All the time, while they were wandering about homeless
and wretched, more than one went searching everywhere for them without success.

One of these was Quilp, the ugly dwarf. He had loaned the grandfather more money than the shop
would bring, and he made up his mind now that the old man had a secret hoard somewhere, which
might be his if he could find it. He soon learned that if Kit knew anything about it he would
not tell, so he and his lawyer (a sleek, oily rascal named Brass) made many plans for finding
them. But for a long time Quilp could get no trace.

Another who tried to find them was a curious lodger who roomed in Brass's house. He seemed
to have plenty of money but was very eccentric. Nobody knew even his name and so they called
him The Stranger.

He kept in his room a big box-like trunk, in which was a silver stove that he used to cook
his meals. The stove had a lot of little openings. In one he would put an egg, in another some
coffee, in another a piece of meat and in the fourth some water. Then he would light a lamp
that stood under it, and in five minutes the egg would be cooked, the coffee boiled and the
meat done--all ready to eat.

He was the queerest sort of boarder! The strangest habit he had was this: He seemed to be very
fond of Punch-and-Judy shows, and whenever he heard one on the street he would run out without
his hat, make the showmen perform in front of the house and then invite them to his rooms,
where he would question them for a long time. This habit used to puzzle both Brass and Quilp,
the dwarf, and they never could guess why he did it.

The truth was, the mysterious Stranger was a long-missing brother of little Nell's grandfather.
A misunderstanding had come between them many years before when both were young men. The younger
had become a traveler in many countries and had never seen his brother since. But he dreamed
often of the days when they had been children and at last he forgot the thing that had driven
them apart. He had come back now to England, a rich man, to find the other had vanished with
little Nell, his grandchild. He had soon learned the story of their misfortune and how the
fear of Quilp had driven them away. After much inquiry he had discovered they had been seen
with a Punch-and-Judy show and now he was trying to find the showmen.