    [The Chairman rises to propose the only toast of the
    evening, "Success to the Great Actor who is about to
    leave us for a short time." The usual
    speech--reminiscent, anecdotic, prophetic of tremendous
    triumphs, mildly humorous, pathetic.

The Chairman (concluding). Therefore I bid you all charge your glasses as full of wine as your
hearts are full of sympathy, and join me in wishing success to the Great Man, who is about
to cull new laurels in a foreign land.

    [Roars of applause. Immense enthusiasm. The Great Actor
    responds. He is moved to tears. He assures his friends,
    that wherever he may go his heart will ever turn fondly
    to them. Great cheering.

Tiffington (puffing his cigar). Not so bad. I always said he could speak better than he could act.

    [The supper concludes. HALL has not been asked to
    sing.

Friend of Great Actor (departing, to TIFFINGTON). It's been a splendid evening, hasn't it?

Tiffington (putting on his coat). Yes. Pretty fair. (To HALL.) Sorry for you, old chap. But
the song will keep.

Hall. Keep? Oh, yes, it'll keep. I'll make it red-hot for the lot of 'em, and sing it at Blankbury
next year. They won't like that, I rather think.

Jarp. No, by Gad!

    [Exeunt omnes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SHREWING OF THE TAME.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

MR. F. R. BENSON deserves commendation for a new idea. SHAKSPEARE has been presented in many
forms, but the notion of giving the Bard without any acting to speak of is a novelty. And it
is not quite certain that it is a mistake. After all, a bad actor is an infliction, and it
is better to have gentlemen who have not spent centuries in mastering the intricacies of their
profession than a noisy personage who tears his passions to atoms. The recent revivals of A
Midsummer Night's Dream and the Taming of the Shrew at the Globe Theatre show how pleasing
Shakspearian representations may be made, even when their success depends less upon elocution
than scenic effect. The first of these plays was simply delightful, with its fairy glades and
"built-up" temples. The last, too, is well off for "cloths," pleasingly representing Padua
and Verona. The performers (with the exception of Mr. STEPHEN PHILLIPS, who speaks his lines
with admirable effect) are not so noticeable. One of the best-played parts in the piece is
filled by an actor whose name does not appear in the programme. He has nothing to do but to
carry off Katherina (Mrs. F. R. BENSON), in Sc. 5., Act III., on his back. That he looks like
an ass while doing this goes without saying, but still he is a valuable addition to the cast.
From an announcement in the programme, it appears that Othello, Hamlet, and the Merchant of
Venice are shortly to be played. It seems at the first blush a difficult task to pick out of
Mr. BENSON'S present company a gentleman quite suited to fill the title rôles in the two first,
and Shylock in the last. But, no doubt, the Lessee and Manager thinks the playing of the characters
of the Prince of Denmark and the Moor a matter of minor importance. And, if he does, it may
be argued, from the cordial reception that has been accorded to A Midsummer Night's Dream and
the Taming of the Shrew, that he has an excellent reason for his opinion.

    Believe me, yours truly,
      ONE WHO IS EASILY PLEASED.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO MEET IT.

SIR,--Having read all the letters that have appeared in the papers suggesting a treatment for
the prevailing epidemic, I have got, perhaps, a little confused; but, on the whole, the following
is the course, as far as I can make out, that it would be prudent to pursue on finding oneself
threatened with any of the well-known symptoms. Immediately get into a warm bath several degrees
hotter than you can possibly bear it, then get out again. Now go to bed, send for your family
solicitor, and make your will, meantime trying every half hour half a tumbler or so of any
patent medicine the advertisement of which occurs to you. Call in a homoeopathic doctor, and
give his system a turn for four-and-twenty hours; then send for your own medical man. Take
care that they do not meet on the stairs. Take anything and everything he gives you for the
next eight-and-forty hours, interspersing his prescriptions with frequent tumblers of hot and
steaming ammoniated quinine-and-water, getting down at the same time more beef tea, oysters,
champagne, muffins, mince-pies, oranges, nuts, and whiskey than, under ordinary circumstances,
you feel would be good for you. Continue the above treatment for a couple of months. This is
what I am going to try, if I am down with it. As I said above, it is, if a little complicated,
sure to be all right, for I have got every item of it from a careful perusal of those infallible
guides and directors in all modern difficulties and doubts,

    THE DAILY PAPERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

KICKED!

(By the Foot of Clara Groomley.)

CHAPTER II.

I am still at Ryde, and it is still raining. On a day like this, a little Ryde goes a great
way. No Ryde without rain. Telle est la vie. The young girls at Plumfields sit writing themes
indoors instead of taking their exercise in the open air.

If this rain keeps on, I shall go to wild Assam again, or to the Goodwin Sands. JAMES, the
headwaiter, has told me thirteen different stories of the haunted room of this hotel. None
of them are amusing, or interesting, or have anything to do with this tale. If I were writing
a shilling volume, I should put them in by way of padding. As it is, they may go out. I too
will go out.

***

I have seen Mlle. DONNERWETTER. She was racing along on the pier, and I was pacing along in
the rear. I saw her and caught her up. I hastily pressed all the valuables that I had with
me--four postage-stamps and an unserviceable watch-key--into her hand, and entreated her to
give me an interview with Miss SMITH.

"Me muchee want to oblige English Sahib," she said, in her pulverised English, "but ze Effendina--ze
what you call 'ead-mistress, French lady like myself--she no like it. She give me the bottine,
if I let great buckra massa talk to Fraulein SMEETS. But lookee--I give you straight tip. Miss
SMEETS is on ze pier now--you write note--slip it in her hand. I wink ze eyebrow. I have a
grand envy to oblige the English Signor. Ah! Bismillah! Quelle alouette!"

She is French, very French, but she has a kind heart. I hurriedly wrote a few impassioned words
on my left cuff, and folded it into a three-cornered note. I dropped it down Miss SMEET'S neck
as I found her leaning over the side of the pier, and then ran away. I heard her murmur, "Someone's
mistaken me for the post-office."

It is still raining, but I am quite happy. I have seen her again, and I feel that she loves
me. It was impossible to mistake the tendresse with which she murmured, "post-office." In my
little note I requested her to send a reply to this hotel. I have asked her to tell me plainly
what her income is, and to state on what conditions she will forfeit it. Of course, she has
no income now, as she is a minor, but I would wait a year or two for a certainty. Shall I write
her some verses--lines to a minor, or thoughts on the Southampton quay? Perhaps I had better
wait until I obtain the statistics. Ah, here is JAMES, bringing me a note. It must be from
my darling--no, it is from Mademoiselle.

    DEAR SIR,--Miss SMITH am going away to Londres. A
    telegram come for her, and I look over the shoulder. It
    say, 'Poor TOMMY'S kicked! Come at once,' Miss SMITH
    make the tears.

      Yours,
        LUCIA DONNERWETTER.

I must be off to London and get this matter traced. JAMES entreats me to buy a new hat when
I am away. He says it's bringing disgrace on the hotel, and keeping away custom. What! Give
up the hat which her dear foot has kicked! Never! But, perhaps, I will have it ironed. The
iron has entered into my soul, and perhaps, it would be doing more good on my hat. Yes, I will
have it ironed. It does look a little limp. Ironed or starched--what matter, when my darling
is gone, and left me with no information as to her income?

(To be concluded in Two more Chapters.)

       *       *       *       *       *

"Venice Preserved" in The Haymarket.

No--not OTWAY'S tragedy, and not under Mr. BEERBOHM TREE'S management, but at the Gallery next
door to the Theatre, and under the superintendence of Mr. MCLEAN, you will find not only Venice,
but Florence, Prague, Heidelberg, Capri, Augsburg, Nuremburg, Innsbrück, and a good many other
picturesque places, preserved in about a hundred water-colour drawings, by Mr. EDWARD H. BEARNE.
If there were not so many rivers and lagoons in the exhibition, it might be called the "Bearnese
Oberland." These pictures are well painted, and, during the gruesome weather, a tiny tour round
this sunny gallery is mighty refreshing.

       *       *       *       *       *

    STUDY FOR THE PELICAN CLUB.--The "Logic and Principles
    of Mill."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"BRITONS NEVER WILL BE SLAVES!"

(A Scene from a Domestic Comedy.)

MRS. BOB BULL was the wife of a British Workman, and she got up at four o'clock in the morning.

"Must rise early," she said, "to see that my man has his breakfast."

So she lighted the fire, and put the kettle on to boil, and laid the cloth, and swept out the
rooms. Then down came BOB rather in a bad humour, because he had been late over-night at the
"Cock and Bottle," detained (as he explained to his wife) by a discussion about the rights
of labour.

"Of course," said Mrs. BULL; "and why shouldn't you, after a hard day's work, enjoy yourself?"

But BOB contended that he had not enjoyed himself, although he had undoubtedly expended two
shillings and eight-pence upon refreshment. What BOB wanted to know was, why there was a button
off his coat, and why his waistcoat had not been properly mended.

"Well, I was busy with the children's things," replied Mrs. BOB; "but I will put all straight
when you have gone to work."

"Gone to work, indeed!" grumbled BOB. "Yes, it's I that does all the work, and worse luck to it!"

The moment BOB was out of the house, Mrs. BOB got the children up and dressed them, and gave
them their breakfasts and sent them off to school. When they were gone, she "tidied up" and
dressed the baby. Then she did one of "the bits of washing," that came from a family in whose
service she had been before she married BOB, and that family's connection. And this occupied
her fully, what with soaking, and mangling and ironing, until it was time to carry BOB his
dinner. In the pauses of her work she had been able to cook it, and it was quite ready to go
with her when she was prepared to take it. It was a long walk (in the rain) to BOB'S place
of work, and it seemed the longer because she could not leave the baby. But both got there,
and the dinner, without any accident. And then Mrs. BOB hurried back to give the children,
now home from school, their midday meal. And Mrs. BOB had plenty of work to do afterwards.
She had to mend, and to scrub, and to sweep, and to sew. She was not off her legs for a moment,
and had she been a weaker woman, she would have been thoroughly done up. Then came the children's
evening toilette and the cooking of BOB'S supper. Her lord and master entered in due course,
and she helped him off with his coat, and (when he had finished his food) lighted his pipe for him.

"Mended my clothes?" asked BOB.

"Of course I have."

"And washed my linen, and druv nails into my boots, and baked the bread, and pickled the walnuts,
and all the rest of it?"

"Yes, BOB, I have done them all--every one of them."

This put BOB into a better temper, and he took out an evening paper, and began to read it.

"I say," said he; "what do you think! They have got white slaves in Turkey!"

"You don't say so, BOB!" replied Mrs. BOB, lost in amazement. Then she said as she paused tidying
up the room, "Ah! they wouldn't allow anything of that sort in England!--would they, BOB?"

And BOB, smoking his pipe, and sprawling before the fire, agreed with her!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Riviera in Bond Street.

Why take a long journey and spend a lot of money, when the Riviera is within a shilling cab-fare?
Why not apply at 148, New Bond Street, and obtain one of the Fine Art Society's "excursion
coupons," and get yourself personally conducted by Mr. JOHN FULLEYLOVE to Nice, Monte Carlo,
Genoa, and all sorts of delightful places? Take Mr. Punch's advice, and go there at once! And,
when you have exhausted the Riviera, you have another treat in a series of well-nigh seventy
drawings of Cambridge. These are skilfully limned, with scrupulous architectural accuracy and
charming pictorial effect, and will give great delight to Cantabrians, old and young. They
are worthy to take their place beside the excellent series of pictures of Oxford which Mr.
FULLEYLOVE exhibited some time ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"Bring me my books!" said the Baron, not for the first time. But on this occasion the Baron
was a prisoner in bed, and likely to remain so for many days. Consequently, he required amusement.
He had heard of a book, called Three Men in a Boat, by Mr. JEROME K. JEROME, some of whose
observations, in a collection of papers entitled Stage-land, had caused him to laugh several
times, and to smile frequently, for the subject has not been so well touched since GILBERT
ABBOTT À BECKETT wrote his inimitable Quizziology of the Drama, which for genuine drollery
has never been surpassed. Anticipating, then, some side-splitters from Three Men in a Boat,
the Baron sent for the work. He opened it with a chuckle, which, instead of developing itself
into a guffaw and then into a fit of uncontrollable laughter, gradually subsided altogether,
his smile vanished, and an expression of weariness came over the Baron's face, as after heroically
plodding through five chapters he laid the book down, and sighed aloud, "Well, I'm hanged if
I see where the fun of this is." The Baron may be wrong, and the humour of this book, which
seems to him to consist in weak imitations of American fun, and in conversations garnished
with such phrases as "bally idiot," "bally tent," "doing a mouch," "boss the job," "put a pipe
in his mouth, and spread himself over a chair," "land him with a frying-pan," "fat-headed chunk,"
"who the thunder" and so forth--a style the Baron believes to have been introduced from Yankee-land,
and patented here by the Sporting Times and its imitators,--interspersed with plentiful allusions
to whiskey-drinking, may not be, as it is not, to his particular taste; and yet, for all that,
it may be marvellously funny. So the Baron requested an admirer of this book to pick out the
gems, and read them aloud to him. But even the admirer was compelled to own that the gems did
not sparkle so brilliantly as he had at first thought. "Yet," observed the admirer, "it has
had a big sale." "Three Men in a Boat ought to have," quoth the Baron, cheerily, and then he
called aloud, "Bring me Pickwick!" He commenced at the Review, and the first meeting of Mr.
Pickwick with the Wardle family. Within five minutes the Baron was shaking with spasmodic laughter,
and CHARLES DICKENS'S drollery was as irresistible as ever. Of course the Baron does not for
one moment mean to be so unfair to the Three Men in a Boat as to institute a comparison between
it and the immortal Pickwick, but he has heard some young gentlemen, quite of the modern school,
who profess themselves intensely amused by such works as this, and as the two books by the
author of Through Green Glasses, and yet allow that they could not find anything to laugh at
in Pickwick. They did not object to Pickwick, as ladies very often do, that there is so much
eating and drinking in it. "No," says the Baron, in bed, "Give me my Pickwick, and, after him,
for a soothing and pleasant companion, give me WASHINGTON IRVING. When I'm in another sort
of humour, bring me THACKERAY. For rollicking Irish life, give me LEVER. But as to youth-about-town
life of the present day, I do not know of any second-class humorist who approaches within measurable
distance of the author of The Pottleton Legacy, in the past." So far the Baron. And now "The
Co." speaks:--

A Tour in a Phaëton, by J. J. HISSEY, is an interesting account of a driving trip through the
Eastern Counties. It abounds in hisseytorical research; we are taken to all kinds of out-of-the-way
and picturesque places, of which the Author gives us graphic pictures with pencil as well as
pen. A fresher title to the work might have been devised, as the present one bears a striking
likeness to Mr. BLACK'S Adventures of a Phaëton,--who, by the way, was the first to render
driving tours popular. The volume abounds in poetical quotations. The authority, however, is
seldom given, and inverted commas are conspicuous by their absence. It can hardly be imagined
that all this poetry is by the writer of the book. In one instance he quotes a well-known verse
by ASHBY-STERRY, without acknowledgment, in which, for some inscrutable reason, he has introduced
a rugged final line which effectually mars the harmony of the original stanza.

Those who prefer Scotch broth well peppered to Butter-Scotch, should read Our Journey to the
Hebrides, by Mr. and Mrs. PENNELL. They seem to have gone out of the beaten track in their
tour, which is pleasant, and their views of Scotland, though they may cause controversy, are
novel, and at the same time indescribably refreshing. As to the views of Scotland chronicled
by Mr. PENNELL'S clever and facile pencil, they are full of thought, elaborate detail and wondrous
originality. There are some forty of these, all remarkable for their everlasting variety and
high artistic excellence.

Dr. Hermione (Blackwood) is rather an idyl than a novel, and would have done better still if
it had been cast in the form of a comedy. The still anonymous author who followed up Zit and
Zoë by Lady Bluebeard possesses the gift, rare among novelists, of writing sparkling dialogue.
The quickly changing scenes in the last chapter of Dr. Hermione, with its sprightly chatter
would serve the poor player almost as it stands. It is not too late to think about the comedy.
In the meanwhile the novel does very well, and if he had made his story a book for the play,
we should have missed many dainty descriptions of scenery.

Some Places of Note in England (DOWDESWELLS) have been deftly noted by a notable artist, namely,
BIRKET FOSTER. From the "places of note," he has evolved some of the most delicate of harmonies.
Whether he gives us a Canterbury cantata, a Richmond rondo, a Stratford symphony, a Lambeth
lied, or a Tilbury toccata we are equally delighted with his choice of motivo and his brilliancy
of execution. In this volume we have five-and-twenty pictures, admirably reproduced in the
highest style of lithography. Mr. BIRKET FOSTER has been before the public for many years--he
appeared, if we mistake not, in the early numbers of the Illustrated News: his work has been
constant, and his pictures countless ever since, and yet, in the present volume, we find him
better than ever.

Sporting Celebrities. The first number of this new monthly contains two excellent portraits
by M. WALERY. One is of the Duke of BEAUFORT, the other of Mr. CHOLMONDELEY PENNELL. They are
accompanied by crisp well-written biographical notices. The two portraits are well worth the
price charged for the Magazine. A couple of good photographs for a shilling, cannot be considered
dear. In addition to this, there are twenty pages of letterpress--so altogether it is a splendid
shillingsworth. BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

INSANITARY DUST-BINS.--That your servants should have thrown half a lobster, several potted
meat-tins, an uneatable rabbit-pie, and all the vegetable refuse of your household, into your
dust-bin, and that it should not have been "attended to" for upwards of two months, is quite
sufficient to account for the intolerable odour of which you and all your neighbours on that
side of the street have had reason to complain; but, as you seem to think nothing but an epidemic
fever, caused by the nuisance, will rouse the Authorities, you might, by throwing in a pound
or two of phosphate of lime, the same quantity of copper shavings, and a gallon or so of nitric
acid, as you suggest, create such an intolerable stench, that something would have to be done,
and that without delay, to preserve your entire neighbourhood from a visitation of the plague.
Try it, by all means. In the meantime have a notice, as you propose, put in your kitchen window,
to the effect that a champagne luncheon, and half-a-crown a head, will be provided for the
dustmen if they will only call. Failing this, you might take the steps you seriously contemplate,
with a view to marrying into the dust-contractor's family. This, perhaps, coupled with a series
of urgent letters to the Times, would be your wisest course. But, in the present unsatisfactory
state of the law, it is difficult to know how to advise you for the best. Your idea, if the
worst comes to the worst, and you cannot get the Vestry to attend to it, of blowing up your
dust-bin yourself with gunpowder, you might resort to as a last expedient; but, as you seem
to think it might bring down your portico, and possibly the whole front of your house as well,
we should advise you not to put it into execution till quite assured that your attempts to
get your dust-bin emptied by some less violent means have all hopelessly failed. Anyhow, try
the copper shavings and nitric acid first. We think you will find, if steadily persevered in,
that they will, coupled, possibly, with some legal proceedings, settle the matter for you.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE GLORY.--The fall of a fragment of a chandelier has shed an additional lustre--or a portion
of a lustre--on the Brav' Général.

       *       *       *       *       *

    QUITE THE FIRST BRIDGE.--The Forth Bridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN UNSCIENTIFIC DIALOGUE.

(On a highly Uninteresting Topic.)

First Aspiring Political Economist (picking his way cautiously). What the Bimetallists maintain
is this: that by fixing an artificial ratio between the relative values of gold and silver,
you somehow (a little vaguely) keep up prices; and so, at least,--so I fancy,--assist the circulation
of capital. At all events, that is what I take M. EMILE DE LAVELEYE to mean. (Tentatively.)
You see that, don't you?

Second Aspiring Political Economist. Not a bit of it. Why, EMILE DE LAVELEYE is an ass. (Emphatically.)
GIFFEN says so. And you can't have a higher authority than GIFFEN (clinching the matter). Why,
he's Hon. Assistant Deputy Secretary to the Board of Commerce; (with animation) in fact, he
says that all Bimetallists are hopeless lunatics, and, in my opinion, he's about right.

Third Aspiring Political Economist. I don't see that at all. But if you are going to settle
the matter by merely quoting names, what have you got to say to FOXWELL, the London Professor?
He's a Bimetallist, and no mistake.

Second Aspiring Political Economist. "Got to say?" Why, ask LEVIN of Cambridge what he thinks
of him. LEVIN backs up GIFFEN in every word he says, and I agree with both of them. How can
you have two standards? (Explicitly.) The thing is preposterous.

First Aspiring Political Economist. It is all very well to lay down the law in that fashion,
but it will not dispose of facts. You may quote GIFFEN, or LEVIN, or anyone you like, but they
will not be able to do away with the circumstance, that prices are regulated by the quantity
of money in circulation (with a little hesitation); at least, that is what I understand the
other side to maintain.

Second Aspiring Political Economist. Sheer nonsense. How does the quantity of money you possess
affect the price you pay for a commodity? The fact of your having twenty sovereigns in your
purse won't make your butcher charge you an extra halfpenny a pound for a leg of mutton! That
must be clear to any fool!

First Aspiring Political Economist. But you don't understand. It's numbers that do it. They
mean, if thirty millions of people, each have twenty sovereigns a-piece in their purses (doubtfully),
then, I suppose, the butchers would raise the price of their meat. At least, that's what I
fancy they imply when they talk of an "artificial currency" raising prices (with some vagueness),
or is it "artificial prices" creating an increased currency. I couldn't quite follow them in
this. But I am sure, whichever of the two views was expressed by M. EMILE DE LAVELEYE, that
one had, no doubt, a great deal of sound argument to back it.

Third Aspiring Political Economist. I think you miss the point. Take an illustration. Say you
arrive at a cannibal island with ten thousand complete sets of evening dress clothes, and that
another ship, just before the arrival of yours, has taken the last ten-pound-note off the island,
how, supposing there was to be a native rush to obtain one of your suits, would the absence
of any money to pay for them affect their market value? I mayn't have got it quite correctly,
but this, or something like it, is one of the cases that GIFFEN brings forward to prove his
point. The matter, however, appears to me to be a little complicated.

Second Aspiring Political Economist. Not in the least. It proves the humbug of the Bimetallic
position up to the hilt. Of course, you must assume, that the cannibals desire to dress in
evening clothes. I confess that has to be considered, and then the question lies in a nutshell.
There can't be two opinions about it.

First Aspiring Political Economist. Well, to me, though, of course, I am willing to admit there
may be something in it, I can't say that the matter is, at first sight, convincingly clear.
(Candidly.) My chief difficulty is, I confess, to arrive at any definite conclusion with myself,
as to what "Bimetallism" really means, and what it does not; and I own I feel still vague as
to the two questions of the influence of the quantity of money on prices, or the price of a
commodity on the value of money respectively, and, though I carefully read all that appears
in the daily papers on the subject, I am compelled to own that I do not seem to be nearer a
solution of the perplexing difficulty. However, it is, no doubt, a highly absorbing, if not
a very useful, subject for investigation.

    [Left investigating it as Curtain falls.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S MORAL MUSIC-HALL DRAMAS.

No. IV.

