That there was a Roman station in this neighbourhood is admitted by the antiquarians, though
its exact situation is not as yet ascertained. The Portus Aldurni, placed by the learned Selden
at Aldrington, two miles to the west of Brighthelmston, is by the ingenious Tabor presumed
to have been at East Bourne, eighteen miles to the east of it: yet there are many local and
incidental circumstances belonging to this place, and which are wanting in those towns, that
render a conjecture probable as to its having been a Roman station.

The Praepositus of the Exploratores, whose office was to discover the state and motions of
the enemy, and who was certainly in this part of Sussex, could be no where more advantageously
placed than in the elevated situations of the strong camps at Hollingsbury and White-Hawke,
commanding a most extensive view of the whole coast from Beachy-Head to the Isle of Wight.
The form of this town is almost a perfect square; the streets are built at right angles to
each other, and its situation is to the south east, the favourite one among the Romans. To
these may be added, that an urn has been some time ago dug up in this neighbourhood, containing
a thousand silver denarii marked from Antoninus Pius to Philip, during which tract of time
Britain was probably a Roman province. And, lastly, the vestiges of a true Roman via running
from Shoreham towards Lewes, at a small distance above this town have been lately discovered
by an ingenious gentleman truly conversant in matters of this nature.

The light sometimes obtained in these dark matters from a similitude of sounds in the ancient
and modern names of places, is not to be had in assisting the present conjecture. Its ancient
one, as far as I can learn, is no way discoverable; and its modern one may be owing either
to this town's belonging formerly to, or being countenanced in a particular manner by a Bishop
Brighthelm, who, during the Saxon government of the island, lived in this neighbourhood: or
perhaps may be deduced from the ships of this town having their helms better ornamented than
those of their neighbouring ones.

It is true here are no hypocausts, Mosaic pavements, inscriptions, or any other delicate monuments
of Roman antiquity,[4] that might corroborate in a stronger manner this supposition: these,
if any such existed here, have been defaced by time, or destroyed by the undiscerning inhabitants
of the place.

During the Saxon aera, this town was almost the centre of the kingdom of the South Saxons;
and consequently could not be the scene of much action. It submitted to the various revolutions
which prevailed at different times, until the Norman conquest.

The conqueror landed at Hastings forty miles distant to the east of this town; so that his
troops never came near it. Yet, the fate of England being decided by the bloody engagement
at Battel, this town, with many other large possessions in the county, was granted to William
de Warren, who married the Conqueror's daughter: and he soon made it part of the endowment
of that rich priory, which he founded at Lewes.

This resigning of the town into the hands of monks was a fatal stroke to its ancient greatness.
Too attentive to their own immediate interest, and too regardless of that of their vassals,
as soon as they were in possession of it, they laboured, and with success, to obtain an exemption
for it from supplying the king with ships, or affording him such other succour, as a large
and powerful maritime town ought to have done, on the pretence of its being part of a religious
estate.

(To be concluded in our next.)

    [1] It appears to have been called Brighton in a terrier of lands,
        dated in 1660.

    [2] In the years 1800 and 1801, when wheat was at an unprecedented
        price, the occupiers of farms on the South Downs converted much
        of their downland into tillage, from which they acquired abundant
        crops of corn. The green sward when once ploughed, can never be
        restored to its former verdure, and although grass seeds have
        been yearly sown in succession for more than 80 years upon down
        formerly broken up and converted into arable land, the
        distinctions between these parts and the original down is still
        clearly perceptible.

    [3] See the remains of a Druidical altar at Goldstone (Gor or Thor
        stone) bottom, about a mile to the north-west of the town.

    [4] A Mosaic pavement has been discovered at Lancing, within nine
        miles west of the town.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

       *       *       *       *       *

LARGE PAINTED WINDOW OF THE CRUCIFIXION.

Mr. Wilmshurst has nearly completed a fine copy, on glass, of Mr. Hilton's celebrated picture
of the Crucifixion. It consists of 118 squares, 15 by 21 inches each, fitted into copper frames,
in a large centre and two sides; in all 19 feet high, and 15 feet wide, intended for a Venetian
window-case in St. George's Church, Liverpool. The original picture was painted for this purpose,
by commission from the Corporation, in the year 1826, for which the artist received 1,000 guineas.
Perhaps in all the productions of British art there is not a more appropriate subject for the
embellishment of a church, than Hilton's representation of this sublime event. The countenance
and figure of the crucified Saviour are admirably drawn: his placid resignation is finely contrasted
with the muscular figures of the two thieves struggling in the last agonies of torture: the
spike-nails and blood-drops of the hands and feet, and the title on the cross are closely preserved.
The group of women at the foot of the cross, the lifeless form, drooping hand, anxious eye,
and gushing tear, the terrified and afflicted populace, and the unperturbed devotional gaze
of a few by-standers are too among the masterly beauties of this composition. The lights are
well kept, and the entire effect of the Window is that of awe-inspiring grandeur.

It is somewhat curious, that on the evening Mr. Wilmshurst put together his Liverpool Window,
his larger Window of the Field of Cloth of Gold, was totally destroyed by fire, and by the
next morning all its glories were melted (or vitrified) into tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TWA BURDIES.

BY THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.

  When the winter day had past an' gane,
  Twa wee burdies came into our hearth stane;
  An' they lookit a'round them wi' little din,
  As if they had living souls within.

  "O, bonny burdies, come tell to me
  If ye are twa burdies o' this countrye?
  An' where ye were gaun when ye tint your gate,
  A-winging the winter shower sae late?"

  "We are cauld, we are cauld--ye maun let us bide,
  For our father's gane, an' our mother's a bride:
  But in her bride's bed though she be,
  We would rather cour on the earth wi' thee!"

  "O, bonny burdies, my heart is sair
  To see twa motherless broods sae fair.
  But flee away, burdies! flee away!
  For I darenae bide wi' you till day."

  "Ye maun let us bide till our feathers dry,
  For the time of our trial's drawing nigh.
  A voice will call at the hour eleven,
  An' a naked sword appear in heaven!

  "There's an offering to make, but not by men,
  On altar as white as the snow of the glen--
  There's a choice to be made, and a vow to pay,
  And blood to spill ere the break of day."

  "O, tell me, beings of marvellous birth,
  If ye are twa creatures of heaven or earth?
  For ye look an' ye speak, I watnae how--
  But I'm fear'd, I'm fear'd, little burdies for you!"

  "Ye needna be fear'd, for it's no our part
  To injure the kind and the humble heart;
  And those whose trust is in heaven high,
  The Angel of God will aye be nigh.

  We were twa sisters bred in a bower,
  As gay as the lark an' as fair as the flower;
  But few of the ills of this world we proved,
  Till we were slain by the hands we loved.

  Our bodies into the brake were flung,
  To feed the hawks and the ravens young;
  And there our little bones reclined,
  And white they bleach'd in the winter wind.

  Our youngest sister found them there,
  And wiped them clean wi' her yellow hair;
  And every day she sits and grieves,
  And covers them o'er wi' the wabron leaves.

  Then our twin souls they sought the sky,
  And were welcome guests in the heavens high;
  And we gat our choice through all the spheres
  What lives to lead for a thousand years.

  Then humble, old matron, lend us thine aid,
  For this night the choice is to be made;
  And we have sought thy lowly hearth
  For the last advice thou giv'st on earth.

  Say, shall we skim o'er this earth below,
  Beholding its scenes of joy and woe;
  And try to reward the virtuous heart,
  And make the unjust and the sinner smart?

  Or shall we choose the star of love,
  In a holy twilight still to move;
  Or fly to frolic, light and boon,
  On the silver mountains of the moon?

  O, tell us, for we hae nane beside!
  Our daddy's gane, and our mammy's a bride.
  She is blitliely laid in her bridal sheet,
  But a spirit stands at her bed feet.

  Ay, though she be laid in her bridal bed,
  There is guiltless blood upon her head;
  And on her soul the hue of a crime,
  That will never wash out till the end of time.

  Advise, advise! dear matron, advise!
  For you are humble, devout, and wise.
  We ask a last advice from you--
  Our hour is come--what shall we do?"

  "O, wondrous creatures, ye maun allow
  I naething can ken of beings like you;
  But ere the voice calls at eleven,
  Go ask your Father who is in heaven."

  Away, away, the burdies flew
  Aye singing, "Adieu, kind heart, adieu!
  They that hae blood on their hands may rue
  Afore the day-beam kiss the dew.

  There's naught sae heinous in human life
  As taking a helpless baby's life;
  There's naething sae kind aneath the sky
  As cheering the heart that soon maun die."

  The morning came wi' drift an' snaw,
  And with it news frae the bridal-ha',
  That death had been busy, and blood was spilt,
  May Heaven preserve us all from guilt!

  They tell of a deed--Believe't who can?
  Such tale was never told by man;
  The bridegroom is gone in fire and flood,
  And the bridal-bed is steep'd with blood!

  The poor auld matron died ere day,
  And was found as life was passing away;
  And twa bonny burdies sang in the bed,
  The one at the feet, the other the head.

  Now I have heard tales, and told them too,
  Hut this is beyond what I could do;
  And far hae I ridden, and far hae I gane,
  But burdies like these I never saw nane.

Fraser's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELLISTON AND THE ASS' HEAD.

Elliston was, in his day, the Napoleon of Drury-lane, but, like the conqueror at Austerlitz,
he suffered his declensions, and the Surrey became to him a St. Helena. However, once an eagle
always an eagle; and Robert William was no less aquiline in the day of adversity than in his
palmy time of patent prosperity. He was born to carry things with a high hand, and he but fulfilled
his destiny. The anecdote which we are about to relate, is one of the ten thousand instances
of his lordly bearing. When, the season before last, "no effects" was written over the treasury-door
of Covent-garden theatre, it will be remembered that several actors proffered their services
gratis, in aid of the then humble, but now arrogant and persecuting establishment. Among these
patriots was Mr. T.P. Cooke--(it was just after his promotion to the honorary rank of Admiral
of the Blue). The Covent-garden managers jumped at the offer of the actor, who was in due time
announced as having, in the true play-bill style, "most generously volunteered his services
for six nights!" Cooke was advertised for William; Elliston having "most generously lent [N.B.
this was not put in the bill] his musical score of Black-Eyed Susan, together with the identical
captains' coats, worn at a hundred-and-fifty court-martials at the Surrey Theatre!" Cooke--the
score--the coats, were all accepted, and made the most of by the now prosecuting managers of
Covent-garden, who cleared out of the said Cooke, score, and coats, one thousand pounds at
half-price on the first six nights of their exhibition. This is a fact; nay, we have lately
heard it stated that all the sum was specially banked, to be used in a future war against the
minors. Cooke was then engaged for twelve more nights, at ten pounds per night--a hackney-coach
bringing him each night, hot from the Surrey stage, where he had previously made bargemen weep,
and thrown nursery-maids into convulsions. Well, time drove on, and Cooke drove into the country.
Elliston, who was always classical, having a due veneration for that divine "creature," Shakspeare,
announced, on the anniversary of the poet's birth-day, a representation of the Stratford Jubilee.
The wardrobe was ransacked, the property-man was on the alert; and, after much preparation,
every thing was in readiness for the imposing spectacle.--No! There was one thing forgotten--one
important "property!" Bottom must be a "feature" in the procession, and there was no ass's
head! it would not do for the acting manager to apologize for the absence of the head--no,
he could not have the face to do it. A head must be procured! Every one was in doubt and trepidation,
when hope sounded in the clarion-like voice of Robert William. "Ben!" exclaimed Elliston, "take
pen, ink, and paper, and write as follows!" Ben (Mr. Benjamin Fairbrother, the late manager's
most trusty secretary) sat, "all ear" and Elliston, with finger on nether lip, proceeded.--

"My dear Charles,

I am about to represent, 'with entirely new dresses, scenery, and decorations,' the Stratford
Jubilee, in honour of the sweet swan of Avon. My scene-painter is the finest artist (except
your Grieve) in Europe--my tailor is no less a genius, and I lately raised the salary of my
property-man. This will give you some idea of the capabilities of the Surrey Theatre. However,
in the hurry of "getting up," we have forgotten one property--every thing is well with us but
our Bottom, and he wants a head. As it is too late to manufacture, not but that my property-man
is the cleverest in the world (except the property-man of Covent-garden), can you, lend me
an ass's head, and believe me, my dear Charles,

Yours ever truly,

ROBERT WILLIAM ELLISTON."

"P.S. I had forgotten to acknowledge the return of the Black-Eyed Susan score, and coats. You
were most welcome to them."

The letter was dispatched to Covent-garden Theatre, and in a brief time the bearer returned
with the following answer:--

"MY DEAR ROBERT,

It is with the most acute pain that I am compelled to refuse your trifling request. You are
aware, my dear Sir, of the unfortunate situation of Covent-garden Theatre; it being at the
present moment, with all the 'dresses, scenery, and decorations,' in the Court of Chancery,
I cannot exercise that power which my friendship would dictate. I have spoken to Bartley, and
he agrees with me (indeed, he always does), that I cannot lend you an ass's head--he is an
authority on such a subject--without risking a reprimand from the Lord High Chancellor. Trusting
to your generosity, and to your liberal construction of my refusal--and hoping that it will
in no way interrupt that mutually cordial friendship that has ever subsisted between us.

Believe me, ever yours,

CHARLES KEMBLE."

"P.S. When I next see you advertised for Rover, I intend to leave myself out of the bill to
come and see it."

Of course this letter did not remain long unanswered. Ben was again in requisition, and the
following was the result of his labours:--

"DEAR CHARLES,

I regret the situation of Covent-garden Theatre--I also, for your sake, deeply regret that
the law does not permit you to send me the 'property' in question. I knew that law alone could
prevent you; for were it not for the vigilance of Equity, such is my opinion of the management
of Covent-garden, that I am convinced, if left to the dictates of its own judgment, it would
be enabled to spare asses' heads, not to the Surrey atone, but to every theatre in Christendom.

Yours ever truly,

ROBERT WILLIAM ELLISTON."

"P.S. My wardrobe-keeper informs me that there are no less than seven buttons missing from
the captains' coats. However, I have ordered their places to be instantaneously filled by others."

We entreat our readers not to receive the above as a squib of invention. We will not pledge
ourselves that the letters are verbatim from the originals; but the loan of the Surrey music
and coats to Covent-garden, with the refusal of Covent-garden's ass's head to the Surrey, is
"true as holy writ."

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

THE BOOK OF INSTRUCTION.

This is styled by the publisher "The Child's Annual;" we do not think reasonably so, since
instruction is suited for all times. It is a tolerably thick volume, and contains the Easies
of Grammar, Geography, Arithmetic, Natural History, Punctuation, History, Poetry, Music, and
Dancing; with outlines of Agriculture, Anatomy, Architecture, Astronomy, Botany, and other
branches of science and knowledge--a Chronology and description of the London public buildings.
The contents, to be sure, are multifarious; but the book is we think made of a series of books
to be purchased separately. Every page has a coloured cut of a very gay order. Cottages have
yellow roofs and pink doors; and shopkeepers are dressed in crimson and orange. Some of the
grammatical illustrations are droll: a heavy old fellow, cross-legged, with his hands folded
on a stick is myself; Punch is an active verb; a wedding might have illustrated the conjunction;
four in hand is a preposition. In punctuation, a child asking what o'clock it is, illustrates
a note of interrogation. We could have supplied the editor with the Colon: a little girl who
had much difficulty in understanding its use, one day complained that a pain in her stomach
was as bad as a colon. The pictures in Geography are not so good as they might have been; and
it would have been easy to give correct outlines of animals, since others mislead children.
Music made easy is better, as are Steps to Dancing. The Chronology is faulty and ill-adapted
for children: what do the little dears want to know of the sale of Cobbett's Register, or Mr.
Fletcher and Miss Dick. There are certain things which children should know, and others which
they should not hear of. Show them as many of the virtues of mankind as you please: prepare
the soil well, and there will be less chance of vicious weeds. Altogether this book merits
recommendation. It is nicely bound, as the Guinea Annual folks say, partly in Arabesque.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHEAP MEDICINE.

A publisher who pays much regard to usefulness and economy in reprints has put forth Buchan's
Domestic Medicine for something less than a crown, with a supplementary "Cholera Morbus, its
history, symptoms, mode of treatment, antidotes,&c." By the way, we have often thought Buchan's
book like the Dead Sea: you cannot fall into the latter without some of its water incrusting
on you, and you cannot read Buchan without feeling an ache. Its popularity is founded upon
the hackneyed adage "the knowledge of a disease is half its cure." People will pore over its
sea of calamities till they almost fall into the fire, or get scalded with the water from a
kettle, and then turn to the Index, Scalds, page 326: perhaps this is a good plan to test the
practical value of a book, as the surgeon scalded two fingers and plunged one into turpentine
and the other into spirits of wine to test their respective services in case of a scald.

Here too we may notice a cheap Companion to the Family Medicine Chest, with an alphabetical
arrangement of Medicines, their properties, and plain rules for taking them; with the Cholera,
of course, as a rider, and cautions respecting suspended animation and poisons. The little
shillingsworth is in its fifteenth edition, so that many thousand persons must have taken many
million doses by its prescription, and in some cases become their own medicine chests, with
this book as their companion.

     *       *       *       *       *

HERBERT'S COUNTRY PARSON, &c.

Readers who delight to slake their thirst for knowledge from the deep and pure wells of our
olden literature will rejoice to hear of a cheap and elegant reprint of this beautiful little
book. Perchance some book-buyer need be told that the above is a book to live by--an invaluable
legacy of a parish priest to his brethren and the world. The author George Herbert, was born
in 1593, near Montgomery, in the castle that had been successively happy in the Herberts, as
Isaak Walton observes, "a family that hath been blest with men of remarkable wisdom." Herbert
was patronized by James I. who, for an elegant Latin oration, gave him a sinecure of 120l.
a-year, for in those days the only Royal Society of Literature was in the palace; it is now
among subjects, and too little in the Court. Upon the death of James, Herbert's Court hopes
died also, and he betook himself to a retreat from London. He chose the latter. He married
well. These rules his meek wife observed with cheerful willingness. Thus, he sets forth the
Diversities of a Pastor's life: the Parson's life, knowledge, praying, preaching, Sundays,
house, courtesy, charity, church, comfort, eye, mirth, &c.; his prayers before and after Sermon,
with a few poetical pieces of quaint but touching sweetness. His poetry has been censured for
its point and antithesis; but he cultivated the poetical art to convey moral and devotional
sentiments; others excel him in smoothness of versification, but not in benevolent purpose.
Herbert though himself a pattern of humility, was younger brother of the celebrated Lord Herbert
of Cherbury, whom Horace Walpole abuses for his beauty and gallant bearing, tinctured it must
be allowed, with affected notions of high birth. But the gay philosopher of Cherbury lived
in the last days of chivalry, and had their light but gleamed upon Walpole, he would, in all
probability, have borne the very qualities which he so loudly censures in Herbert. The pastor
Herbert's wife was nearly related to Lord Danby, so that the caution which we have quoted was
perhaps requisite. As Herbert sank his own high birth, it was but fit that his wife should
forget hers also.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW BATH GUIDE.

What a change from grave to gay--from the moral antitheses of Herbert's Country Parson to the
fun and folly of Anstey's New Bath Guide, with etchings by George Cruikshank, and cuts admirably
designed and engraved by S. Williams--as Mr. Simkin dressing for the ball:

  But what with my Nivernois hat can compare,
  Bag-wig and laced ruffles, and black solitaire,
  And what can a man of true fashion denote,
  Like an ell of good riband tyed under the throat.

and "We three blunder-heads," two frizzled physicians of the last century, and the invariably
accompanying cane, or Esculapian wand. This edition is by Mr. Britton, who has prefixed a dedication
and an essay on the genius of Anstey, both of which sparkle with humour and lively anecdote;
and an amusing sketch of Bath as it is. Among the anecdotical notes to the Poem it is stated
that Dodsley acknowledged about ten years after he had purchased the "Bath Guide," that the
profits from its sale were greater than on any other book he had published. He generously gave
up the copyright to the author in 1777, who had 200l. for the copyright after the second edition.
Yet Dodsley, with all his liberality lived to be rich, though he originally was footman to
the Hon. Mrs. Lowther; so true is it that genius and perseverance will find their way upwards
from any station.

There is a pleasant anecdote of the late John Palmer, who, it will be remembered, was somewhat
stiltish. "Palmer, whose father was a bill-sticker, and who had occasionally practised in the
same humble occupation himself, strutting one evening in the green-room at Drury-Lane Theatre,
in a pair of glittering buckles, a gentleman present remarked that they greatly resembled diamonds.
'Sir,' said Palmer, with warmth, 'I would have you to know, that I never wear anything but
diamonds.' 'Jack, your pardon,' replied the gentleman, 'I remember the time when you wore nothing
but paste!' This produced a loud laugh, which was heightened by Parsons jogging him on the
elbow, and drily saying, 'Jack, why don't you stick him against the wall?'"

Another. Mr. Quin, upon his first going to Bath, found he was charged most exorbitantly for
every thing; and, at the end of a week, complained to Nash, who had invited him thither, as
the cheapest place in England for a man of taste and a bon vivant. The master of the ceremonies,
who knew that Quin relished a pun, replied, "They have acted by you on truly Christian principles."
"How so?" says Quin. "Why," answered Nash, "you were a stranger, and they took you in." "Ay"
rejoined Quin; "but they have fleeced me, instead of clothed me."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OUTLINE OF ENGLISH HISTORY,

Is a well-executed compendium for schools, and will be amusing by any fire-side. It not merely
contains the great names, but abounds with curious notes on domestic life in each reign, with
facts and calculations which must have cost the editor, Mr. Ince, many days labour. The period
pompously termed "the Georgian Aera" is not so copious us the editor wishes, but a little more
forethought on his part or that of the printer would better satisfy himself and the public.

Humour.--Where but in farces is the phraseology of the humorist always the same?

Fatality.--What evil cannot corrupt, Fate seldom spares.

Widowhood.--If the blow did not crush, at least it changed him.

Dependence.--What in the world makes a man of just pride appear so unamiable as the sense of
dependence.

A Soldier's simile.--Your shy dog is always a deep one: give me a man who looks me in the face
as he would a cannon.

A Landlord's Independence.--The indifference of a man well to do, and not ambitious of half-pence.
"There's my wife by the door, friend; go, tell her what you want."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

The Opera. From the number of French and German operas announced for performance at the King's
Theatre, it should no longer be called the Italian Opera, but the Foreign Opera.

Tooth Ache.--Powdered alum not only relieves this annoyance, but prevents the decay of the tooth.

Egypt.--The French are just at this moment crazy for Egyptian antiquities. "While Champollion
(on dit)is about to unrol the mystic papyri in all their primitive significance, the celebrated
Caillaud has preceded him with the First Numbers of a work on the Arts and Trades of the Egyptians,
Nubians, and Ethiopians; their customs, civil, and domestic, with the manners and customs of
the modern inhabitants of these countries." --For. Quart. Rev.

Anne Boleyn.--M. Crapelet, the celebrated Parisian printer, has just written and printed a
beautiful little volume entitled Anne Boleyn, which is spoken of as "a careful and pains-taking
attempt to exhibit a character hitherto strangely disfigured by party writers, in its true light."

Root of the Devil.--There is a strange root called the Devil's Bit Scabious, of which quaint
old Gerard observes: "The great part of the root seemeth to be bitten away: old fantasticke
charmers report that the devil did bite it for envie, because it is an herbe that hath so many
good virtues, and is so beneficial to mankinde." Sir James Smith as quaintly observes, "the
malice of the devil has unhappily been so successful, that no virtue can now be found in the
remainder of the root or herb."-- Knowledge for the People. Part xiv.

Onions.--The British onion is of the worst description, those of Egypt and India being considered
great delicacies. Their strong, disagreeable odour is attributable to the sulphur which they
contain, and which is deposited by their juice, when exposed to heat.--Ibid.

Spanish Liquorice is so called from its being manufactured only in Spain and Sicily. The root
grows naturally in those countries and in Languedoc, and in such abundance in some parts of
Sicily, that it is considered the greatest scourge to the cultivator.--Ibid. (Our brewers and
distillers would not be of this opinion were liquorice indigenous to this country.)

Heat in Plants.--Lamarck tells us of a plant, which during a few hours of its growth, is "so
hot as to seem burning." Its greatest heat is stated at nearly 45 degrees above the temperature
of the air in which the plant was growing.

Iceland is perhaps the most deplorable spot on the world's map. "Not very long ago it counted
at least 100,000 inhabitants. Depopulated by time, which has more than once introduced frightful
pestilence, there are now not half that number. Their occupation is that of shepherds and fishermen,
for the bitterness of the climate makes all agricultural labours vain or unproductive. They
are scattered over the wide wastes of the country, far distant, in huts and farms, and it was
only in 1787 that any portion of the population was gathered into towns, if towns may be called
the two spots where a few families have their abode together."--For. Quart. Rev.

Tobacco and Snuff.--Tobacco is a narcotic and depressing poison, whose effect on the nerves
and stomach is to destroy the appetite, prevent the perfect digestion of the food, create an
unnatural thirst, and render the individual who uses it nervous and otherwise infirm. Snuff
destroys the sense of smell, and causes a very disagreeable alteration in the voice. It also
produces head-ache in the course of time; and by the distillation of its juice which falls
from the posterior nostrils into the stomach during sleep, gives rise to weak and painful digestion.--Dr.
Granville.

Early Rising.--From March to November, at least, no cause, save sickness, or one of equal weight,
should retain us in bed a moment after the sun has risen.--Dr. Granville. (What say the lazy
Londoners to this? In Paris, shops are opened and set out for the day before six o'clock in
the mornings of spring, summer, and great part of autumn.)

Food.--Many articles of consumption, introduced in the reign of Henry VIII, the following distich
embraces a few:--

  Turkey, carp, hops, pricard, and beer.
  Came into England all in one year. (1525.)

Ince's Outline of English History.

       *       *       *       *       *