The next year Roger, while fulfilling an engagement in London, was requested to sing at a garden-fête
given, under the patronage of the queen, at Fulham, for the benefit of the poor. After the
concert Roger, leaning against an acacia, was watching the departure of the royal carriages.
"Lavandy came to me," he writes, "and said in a whisper, 'Do you know who is at the other side
of this tree?'

"'No.'

"I turned round, and saw a man with an aquiline nose and blue eyes, whose deep yet gloomy gaze
was fixed upon the splendors of royalty. 'Who is it?' I asked of Lavandy.

"'Louis Bonaparte.'

"He had just been elected member of the Chamber of Deputies. As his name appeared to be dangerous,
he had been requested to take a vacation, and he had returned to London, where he had formerly
lived. I am glad that I saw him: he may be somebody some day."

It was in April of the previous year (1847) that Roger went to a concert, where he records
how he heard a comic opera called The Alcove, by Offenbach and Déforges: "A little inexperience,
but some charming things. Offenbach is a fellow who will go far if the doors of the Opéra Comique
are not closed against him: he has the gift of melody and the perseverance of a demon." It
is rather curious to note, in connection with this prophecy, that the doors of the Opéra Comique,
which were closed against Offenbach after the failure of his Vert-Vert some years before the
war, are to be reopened to him next season, his Contes de Hoffman having proved the "Open,
sesame!" to those long-barred portals.

But to return to Roger's reminiscences of Jenny Lind, which are, after all, the most interesting
for music-loving readers. We find him writing in July, 1848: "I have again been to see Jenny
Lind in Lucia. She is indeed a great, a sublime artist, in whom are united inspiration and
industry."

It was during this season that he concluded an engagement with the English impresario Mitchell
to become the tenor of the travelling opera-troupe in which Jenny Lind was to be the prima
donna, and which was to undertake a tour through Scotland, Ireland and the provincial towns
of England. "I am delighted," he writes: "I shall now be able to study near at hand this singular
woman, whom Paris has never possessed, but whose reputation, fostered at first in Germany under
the auspices of Meyerbeer, has attained in England such proportions that upon her arrival in
a certain city the bells were rung and the archbishop went out to meet her and to invite her
to his house. She is a noble-hearted creature, and her munificence is royal: she founds hospitals
and colleges. In her blue eyes glows the flame of genius. Deprived of her voice, she would
still be a remarkable woman. Believing in herself, she is full of daring, and achieves great
things because she never troubles herself about the critics. She lives the life of a saint:
one would say that she imagines herself sent by God to make the happiness of humanity by the
religion of art. Thus she remains cold and chaste in private life, never permitting her heart
to become inflamed by the ardent passions wherewith she glows upon the stage. She told me that
she could never comprehend the lapse from virtue of Mademoiselle R----, a woman of such lofty
talent: 'To fail thus in what was due to one's self!'"

It is pleasing to note how Roger's admiration for this great artist extinguishes all the usual
petty jealousy of a fellow-singer. He writes thus frankly respecting a concert which they gave
during their tour at Birmingham: "It was a brilliant success, but the final triumph was borne
off by Jenny Lind, who fairly carried the audience away with her Swedish melodies, the effect
of which is really remarkable. She has a strength of voice in the upper notes that is vast
and surprising: without screaming she produces echoes, the loud and soft notes being almost
simultaneous. In the artist's green-room she is kind and courteous without being either mirthful
or expansive. Moreover, she is indefatigable, which is a precious quality for the manager.
She never stays at the same hotel with the rest of the troupe, which is a rather imperial proceeding;
but it is better so: we are more at our ease. She lives her own concentrated life like some
old wine that never sees the light excepting on great occasions. I have at last found in Jenny
Lind a partner who understands me. On the stage she becomes animated; her hands clasp mine
with energy, and the thrill of dramatic fervor possesses her whole being: she becomes thoroughly
identified with her part, and yet she never permits herself to be so carried away as to cease
to be entirely mistress of her voice."

Roger gives us some brief glimpses of Jenny Lind in private life--her love of dancing, of which
she seems to have been as passionately fond as was Fanny Kemble in her youth, and her delight
in horseback riding. He gives a comical account of an improvised ball, in which he figured
as the prima donna's partner, on board of the steamboat going from Dublin to Holyhead: "Unfortunately,
our orchestra fell off one by one; the music finally ceased; and when we stopped waltzing and
cast an uneasy glance around us, we beheld all our musicians, their chests pressed against
the railings, their arms extended toward the ocean, in the pitiable attitude of Punch when
knocked down by the policeman." Some days later, during a performance of La Fille du Regiment
at Brighton, in the last act, while the orchestra was playing the prelude to the final rondo,
"Jenny Lind said to me in a whisper, 'Listen well to this song, Roger, for these are the last
notes of mine that you will hear in any theatre.'"

The next day a farewell ball, to which a supper succeeded, was given by the manager at the
Bedford Hotel to celebrate the conclusion and brilliant success of the tour: "That dear Jenny
drew from her finger a ring set with a diamond of the finest water, and presented it to me
with the words, 'May every sparkle of this stone, Roger, recall to you one of my wishes for
your happiness!' In this phrase there was all the woman and a tinge of the Swede."

The next day he takes a final ride with the prima donna and Madame Lablache. "I was very sad,"
he writes: "the idea of ending this happy day has spoiled my pleasure. How well she looks on
horseback, with her great blue eyes and her loosened fair hair! And why does she quit the stage?
Is she tired of doing good? As long as she has been an artist she has lived the life of a saint.
They tell me of a bishop who has put certain scruples into her head. May Heaven be his judge!

"I know that in Paris people say, 'Why does she not come here to consecrate her reputation?
She is afraid, doubtless, of comparisons and recollections.' No, no! she has nothing to fear.
She preserves in her heart of hearts, doubtless, some resentment for the indifference--to call
it no more--wherewith the last manager of the Opéra received her advances for a hearing when
her fresh young talent had just left the hands of Manuel Garcia. But since then Meyerbeer has
composed operas for her; Germany, Sweden, England have set the seal upon her reputation: we
can add nothing to it. As to homage, what could we give her? Wherever she goes, as soon as
she arrives in a city its chief personages hasten to meet her; when she leaves the theatre
five or six hundred persons await her exit with lighted torches; every leaf that falls from
her laurel-wreaths is quarrelled over; crowds escort her to her hotel; and serenades are organized
under her windows. At Paris, when once the curtain falls the emotion is over, the artist no
longer exists. A serenade! Who ever saw such a thing outside of the Barber of Seville? It is
in bad taste to do anything singular. As to escorting a prima donna home, Malibran could find
her way alone very well."

Roger returned to Paris, recording as he did so the fact that he was by no means overjoyed
at finding himself at home: "And why? I cannot tell. Perhaps I regret the life of excitement,
those great theatres, the audiences that changed every day, the struggle of the singer with
new partitions, the boundless admiration I experienced for that strange being, that compound
of goodness and coldness, of egotism and benevolence, whom one might not perhaps love, but
whom it is impossible to forget."

The next prominent event in the great tenor's career was his creation of the character of John
of Leyden in Meyerbeer's Prophète. There is something very charming in the naïve delight and
enthusiasm with which he speaks of this, the crowning glory of his life. Contrary to the usual
theory respecting the production of a great dramatic effect, he declares that the grand scene
between the prophet and Fides in the third act, where John of Leyden, by the sheer force of
intonation of voice and play of feature, forces his mother to retract her recognition of him
and to fall at his feet, was created, so to speak, by Madame Viardot and himself on the inspiration
of the moment and without any preliminary conference or arrangement. How wonderful this fine
dramatic situation appeared when interpreted by these two great artists, I, who had the delight
of seeing them both, can well remember. To this day it forms one of the great traditions of
the French lyric stage.

In the month of July, 1859, just ten years after that crowning triumph, Roger one day, being
then at his country-seat, took his gun and went out to shoot pheasants: an hour later he was
brought I back to the house with his right arm horribly shattered by the accidental discharge
of his gun. His first action after having the wound dressed was to sing. "My voice is all right,"
he remarked to his wife: "there is no harm done." Unfortunately, the bones were so shattered
that amputation was judged necessary. That accident brought Roger's operatic career to a close.
Notwithstanding the perfection of the mechanical arm that replaced the missing limb, he was
oppressed by the consciousness of a physical defect. He imagined that the public ridiculed
him, and that the critics only spared him out of pity. He retired from the stage, and devoted
himself to teaching, his amiable character and great artistic renown gaining him hosts of pupils.
In the autumn of 1879 the kindly, blameless life came to a close.

A devoted husband, a generous and unselfish comrade in his profession even to his immediate
rivals, and a true and faithful friend, he left behind him a record that shows a singular blending
of simple domestic virtues with great artistic qualities, the union adorning a theatrical career
which was one series of dazzling triumphs.

                          LUCY H. HOOPER.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

CONSERVATORY LIFE IN BOSTON.

Our aspiring young friend from the rural districts who comes to Boston, the great musical centre,
for the art-training she cannot enjoy at home, is full of enthusiasm as she crosses the threshold
of that teeming hive, the New England Conservatory of Music. The conflicting din of organs,
pianos and violins, of ballad, scale and operetta, though discordant to the actual ear have
a harmony which is not lost to her spiritual sense. It is a choral greeting to the new recruit,
who gathers in a moment all the moral support humanity derives from sympathy and companionship
in a common purpose. Devoutly praying that this inspiration may not ooze out at her fingers'
ends, she goes into the director's sanctum to be examined. This trial has pictured itself to
her active imagination for weeks past. Of course he will ask her to play one of her pieces,
perhaps several. Has she not, ever since her plans for coming to the Conservatory were matured,
been engaged in carefully training, manipulating, her battle-horse for this critical experiment?
As the door of that little room closes upon her her knees begin to tremble. But how easy and
reassuring is the director's manner! He requests her to be seated at the piano. Will she be
able to remember a note at all? That is now the question. Her musical memory is for the nonce
obliterated. He may have an intuition of this, for he says quietly, "Now play me a scale and
a five-finger exercise." Cecilia does this mechanically, and feels encouraged. Now for the
piece, the battle-horse, to be brought out and shown off. She waits quietly a minute. But he
asks for nothing more. Her mere touch expresses to his practised ear her probable grade of
acquirement, and he assigns her to the instructor he deems best suited to test her abilities
and classify her in accordance with them.

In a day or two she finds herself in regular working order, one of a class of four. "And am
I only to have fifteen minutes for my lesson," she asks herself, "when I always had an hour
from the professor at Woodville?" She knows that recitation is the cream of the lesson. In
the actual rendering of her task she can, in justice to her companions, consume but a quarter
of the allotted hour, but she soon discovers that she is to a great extent a participant in
Misses A----, B---- and C----'s cream. After the master's correction of her own performance,
to see and hear the same study played by others with more or less excellence--to compare their
faults with her own--is perhaps of greater benefit to her, while in this eminently receptive
frame, than a mere personal repetition would be. The horizon is broader: she gets more light
on the work in hand.

"And now," she asks of her teacher, "how much would you advise, how much do you wish, me to
practise?"

He smiles: memory reverts to his own six hours at Leipsic or Stuttgart, but "milk for babes:"
"Certainly not less than two hours a day under any circumstances or obstacles, if you care
to learn at all. If you have fair health, and neither onerous household duties nor educational
demands upon your time outside of music, let me earnestly recommend you to practise four hours.
Less than this cannot show the desired result."

The new pupil accepts the maximum of four hours' daily practice. "I should be ashamed to give
less," she generously confides to herself and her room-mate: "it is but a small proportion,
after all, of the twenty-four."

But this is not all. There are exercises at the Conservatory apart from her special lessons
which are too valuable to a broad musical education to be neglected--the instruction in harmony,
sight reading, the art of teaching, analyses of compositions, as well as lectures and concerts.
One of the Conservatory exercises strikes her as being alike novel and edifying. This is called
"Questions and Answers." A box in one of the halls receives anonymous questions from the pupils
from day to day, and once a week a professor of the requisite enlightenment to satisfy the
miscellaneous curiosity of six or seven hundred minds devotes a full hour to the purpose. These
questions are presumed to relate solely to musical topics, and the custom was instituted for
the relief of timid yet earnest inquirers. A motley crew, however, frequently avail themselves
of the masquerade privilege to steal in uninvited. Cecilia illustrates these fantastic ramifications
of the young idea for the benefit of friends in the interior. She jots down some of these questions
and their answers in her note-book:

"How does a polka differ from a schottisch?"--"A schottisch is a lazy polka. A polka is the
worst thing in the world: the next worst is a schottisch. A schottisch is so lazy, so slow,
that a fire would hardly kindle with it."

"In preparing to play a piece in public should one practise it up to the last moment?"--"Try
it and see: you will soon decide in the negative. Lay it aside some time before if you would
avoid nervousness."

"What would you give as a first piano-lesson to a young lady who had never taken a lesson before?"--"Make
her get the piano-stool at exactly the right height and place: then ensure a good position
of her hands and easy motion of the fingers. Let her practise this for three days."

"How far advanced ought a person to be in music to begin to teach?"--"Teaching involves three
things: first, a knowledge of something on the part of the teacher; second, a corresponding
ignorance on the part of the learner; third, the ability to impart this knowledge. These conditions
fulfilled might sometimes allow a person to begin to teach with advantage at a very early age
and with a very moderate range of acquirements, though, as every instructor knows, his earlier
methods were very different from his later ones. The difficulty with young teachers in general
is that they try to teach too much at once, like the young minister who preached all he knew
in his first sermon. Never introduce more than two principles in any one lesson, and as a rule
but one."

"Is a mazourka as bad as a polka?"--"No. I think it is not morally so bad as a polka: it has
somewhat the grace of the waltz."

"Who is the best music-teacher in Boston?"--"As there are twenty-five hundred persons teaching
music in and about this city, and seventy-five regular teachers at this Conservatory alone,
both ignorance and delicacy on my part should forbid a definite reply. It were well to remember
Paris, the apple of discord and the Trojan war."

"Is Mr. A---- (a young professor at the Conservatory, voted attractive by the feminine pupils
in general) married?"--"This being Leap Year, a personal investigation of the subject might
be more satisfactory and effectual than a public decision of this point."

At the expiration of her first term Cecilia realizes that her condition is one of constant
growth: quickening influences are in the air. She came to Boston to learn music: she is also
learning life. She perceives, moreover, that in her musical progress the æsthetic part of her
nature has not been permitted to keep in advance of technique. Heretofore she was ever gratifying
herself and her friends by undertaking new and more elaborate pieces, not one of which ever
became other than a mere superficial possession. Now her taste is inexorably commanded to wait
for her muscles: the discipline has been useful to her. After a few more such winters she will
return to Woodville a teacher, herself become a quickening influence to others. Musical thought
will be truer, will find a more adequate expression, in her vicinity. She will act as a reflector,
sending forth rays of light into dark corners farther than she can follow them.

And this is the motive, the mission, of the conservatory system in this country, inasmuch as
organized is more potent than individual effort to elevate our national taste, to prepare the
way for the future artist, that he may be born under the right conditions, his divine gift
fostered and directed to become worthy of its exalted destiny. Already centuries old in Europe,
the conservatory is a young thing of comparatively limited experience on our soil. It was introduced
here twenty-five years ago by Eben Tourjée. He had longed and vainly sought for the advantages
to perfect his own talent, and resolved while a mere boy that those of like tastes who came
after him should not have to contend with the obstacles he had fought--that instruction should
be brought within the reach of all by a college of music similar to those in Europe, embracing
the best elements, attaining the most satisfactory results at the least possible cost to the
student. This project, for a youth without capital, dependent upon his abilities for his personal
support, was regarded even by sympathetic friends as visionary. But nothing progressive is
accepted as a mere optimistic vision by the predestined reformer. Remote Huguenot and immediate
Yankee ancestry is perhaps a good combination for pioneer material. However this may be, his
efforts were crystallized, shaped, sooner than most schemes of such magnitude. Continuing his
classes in piano, organ and voice for a year or two with successful energy, Mr. Tourjée found
in 1859 the desired opportunity for his experiment. The principal of a seminary in East Greenwich,
Rhode Island, accorded him the use of his building, and more students presented themselves
ultimately than could be accommodated on the grounds of the institution. After a visit to Europe
for the purpose of examining the celebrated German, French and Italian schools, Mr. Tourjée
returned, and, fired with new zeal, started in 1864 a chartered conservatory at Providence.
This proved eminently successful. But Boston was the ideal site: talent gravitates toward large
cities, and Boston's acknowledged "love of the first rate" would be the best surety for a lofty
standard and approximate fulfilment. In 1867, under a charter from the State, he finally transplanted
his school to this metropolis under the name of the New England Conservatory of Music, which
it retains to the present date. It has, with characteristic American rapidity, become the largest
music-school in the world, having within fifteen years instructed over twenty thousand pupils:
in a single term it frequently numbers between eight and nine hundred. It has a connection
with Boston University, the only one in the country where music is placed on the same basis
with other intellectual pursuits, and the faculty numbers some of the most renowned artists
and composers in the land. Eben Tourjée was appointed dean of the College of Music in the University,
with the title of Mus. Doctor.

The New England Conservatory deserves this special mention as the parent school in America,
and it has been promptly and ably followed by the establishment of others in most of our large
cities.

                          F. D.

CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE IN THE WEST OF IRELAND.

[The following extract from a private letter just received from Ireland gives a glimpse of
the state of affairs in that country which may interest our readers, as indicating, better
than any mere partisan statements or newspaper reports, the solid grounds that exist for apprehension
in regard to impending disturbances:]

     "I have just returned from a tour in the west of Ireland, and I
     wish I could describe the horrors I have seen--such abject
     misery and such demoralization as you, no doubt, never came in
     contact with in your life. The scenery of Connemara beats
     Killarney in beauty and the Rhine in extent and magnificence,
     but no tourist could face the hotels: the dirt, the
     incompetence, the abominableness of every kind are awful. As
     these people were two hundred years ago, so they are
     now--ignorant, squalid savages, half naked, living on potatoes
     such as a Yankee pig would scorn, speaking only their barbarous
     native tongue, lying and thieving through terror and want, with
     their children growing up in hopeless squalor. Very few savages
     lead such lives, while few people are so oppressed and harassed
     by the pains and penalties of civilization. For they are
     chin-deep in debt. I saw promissory notes five and six times
     renewed, with the landlord, away on the Continent, threatening
     eviction. The selfishness of the landlords is too revolting.
     They live in England or on the Continent, and confine their
     duties in life to giving receipts for their rent. Imagine the
     whole product of the land, in a country destitute of
     manufactures and commerce, remitted to England, and the utmost
     farthing of rent exacted from these wretches, no matter what
     the season is, a valuation of fifty shillings, for example,
     paying a rent of seven pounds--three hundred per cent.! Some
     great catastrophe is imminent. Not a gun is left in the
     gunsmiths' shops in Dublin, and I am told that shiploads are
     brought in from America weekly. The people are perfectly right
     in resisting eviction, but Parliament ought to interpose. We
     must get rid of the landlords, and we must establish compulsory
     education. Then the priests will go like smoke before the wind.
     Free trade is another cause of the troubles. That is one of the
     most specious humbugs extant, and has ruined the Irish farmers.
     It may be all right in principle, but now and here it is simply
     mischievous. Professor ----, who is a member of the new Land
     Commission, went round with me in Connemara, and implored me to
     write up the state of the district; but before anything can be
     published and reach the English ear the autumn rent-day will
     have come, and the gale will be at its height."

HIGH JINKS ON THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI.

To the Editor of Lippincott's Magazine:

It is a remarkable historical fact that the latest visitor to the Upper Mississippi has always
felt it his duty to assail the good faith of every previous traveller. Beltrami (1823) attacked
Pike (1806); Schoolcraft (1832) fleshed his pen in Beltrami; Allen, who accompanied Schoolcraft,
afterward became his enemy and branded him as a geographical quack; Nicollet (1836) arraigned
both Schoolcraft and Allen for incompetency; and so on. And now, at this late day, in a mild
way tradition repeats itself. Your great original geographer, Mr. Siegfried, concluded his
two essays on the "High Mississippi" by saying, "Beyond reasonable doubt our party is the only
one that ever pushed its way by boat up the entire course of the farthermost Mississippi. Beyond
any question ours were the first wooden boats that ever traversed these waters." Then, after
a slap at poor Schoolcraft, he declares that although I claimed the entire trip in my canoe
five years ago, my guide and others told him that my Dolly Varden never was above Brainerd,
and that my portages above were frequent. Except that, by implication, he questions my veracity,
I would not have taken any notice of the feat on which he prides himself. To the general reader
the word "Brainerd" conveys no idea further than the one which the author adroitly tries to
convey (without saying so), that I did not travel the entire Upper Mississippi: his use of
the word "High" is another trick to cover a very small job, as I shall hereafter show. But
the fact is, that Mr. Siegfried has discovered a mare's nest. By stating one fact which has
never been disguised, and repeating an allegation which is absolutely false, he would dispose
utterly of the very trip that made his journey so easy of accomplishment.

