The sugar-cane requires for its perfection, a temperature of considerable elevation, and succeeds
best where the mean temperature is 24° or 25° (of the centigrade thermometer), yet it will
prosper, though with less produce, where it only reaches 19° or 20° (centigrade). Its cultivation
extends from the verge of the ocean, where the canes are often washed by the waves[S], to localities
on the mountains 3,000 feet above the sea; and even in the extensive plains of Mexico and Colombia,
where, from the reflection of the sun's rays the heat is greatly increased, to 4,000, 5,000,
6,000, though the mean temperature of the city of Mexico be only 17° (centigrade), yet sugar
is procured at 6,600 feet.

The fertility and productiveness of the sugar-cane is immense, second only to the sago-palms.
In the island of Cuba, instances are known of a sugar-plantation existing for forty-five years.
To procure new plants, the tedious process of sowing seeds is not necessary. The practice is
followed of taking cuttings, and the stools, or scions, which spring from the joints (nodi)
of the old plant, are fit to be separated in fourteen days; these, in the course of a year,
are so well grown that they may be cut down, and submitted to the sugar-mill. An English acre
under culture for sugar, in Java, yields 1285 pounds avoirdupois of refined sugar, and the
produce at Cuba is nearly the same.

Let not the thought arise, on the perusal of these statements, that the gifts of Providence
are distributed with partiality, as nothing could be more unfounded. From such visitations,
northern latitudes are generally exempt, and the constant struggle which man has had to maintain
with the elements and a churlish soil, has so whetted his faculties as to render the return
for his labour not only more certain, but even more abundant[U].

As if to shew that "the earth full of the riches of the Lord," in parts of the world where
the low temperature is an obstacle to the profitable cultivation of the sugar-cane, a substitute
is found for it in the acer saccharinum, or sugar-maple, which presents the great peculiarity
of the ascending sap being charged with sugar to such a degree as to be then fit for the manufacture
of this valuable substance. There results from this circumstance a most important advantage
to the inhabitants of the northern regions, where this tree grows, that the juice is extracted
early in spring, a time when the rigour of the season condemns the labourer to inactivity.
Besides, the sugar-maple grows spontaneously, and requires no care, till it is fit for tapping;
and when deprived of its juice, and incapable of yielding more sugar, its wood is applicable
to a far greater number and variety of uses than the bruised cane, since as fuel the maple
is most valuable; and its ashes yield, from their richness in the alkaline principle, four-fifths
of the potash exported to Europe from Boston and New York. The timber of the sugar-maple is
also highly prized, both for common and ornamental purposes--as the beautiful bird's-eye maple
is obtained from this tree.

"The sugar-maple begins a little north of Lake St. John, in Canada, near 48° of north lat.,
which, in the rigour of its winter, corresponds to 68° of Europe. It is nowhere more abundant
than between 46° and 43° of north lat., which space comprises Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia,
the states of Vermont and New Hampshire, and the district of Maine. Farther south, it is common
only in Genessee, in the state of New York, and in the upper parts of Pennsylvania. It is estimated
by Dr. Rush, that in the northern part of these two states, there are 10,000,000 acres which
produce these trees in the proportion of thirty to an acre. The process of making maple-sugar
is commonly begun in February, or in the beginning of March, while the cold continues intense,
and the ground is still covered with snow. The sap begins to be in motion at this season, two
months before the general revival of vegetation. The sap continues to flow for six weeks; after
which it becomes less abundant, less rich in saccharine matter, and sometimes even incapable
of crystallization. In this case it is consumed in the state of molasses; or exposed for three
or four days to the sun, when it is converted into vinegar by the acetous fermentation: a kind
of beer is also made of it. The amount of sugar produced by each tree in a year varies from
different causes. The yearly product varies from 2 lbs. to 4 lbs. for each tree[V]." The sap
is most abundant from young trees, but less charged with sugar. The average produce is five
per cent. of sugar. The richer the sap is in saccharine matter, it is so much the more profitable
to extract it, as in such a case it is nearly pure from all mucilaginous matter, or free acid,
and may be consolidated by the action of cold alone by merely freezing it, thus rendering boiling
unnecessary.

Sugar exists in many other plants, such as the beet-root, from which it is extracted; and also
the stem of the maize, or Indian corn, is charged with an extraordinary quantity of sugar,
and it may either be brought to the state of a honey-like sugar, or the juice pressed out of
the stalk, and fermented, forming the pulque de mahio, or pulque de Flaolli, in Mexico[W].

Gum has been already stated to be the basis of all the other organizable products, and it is
found not only in almost all plants, but in nearly all parts of them. In a pure or nearly isolated
state, it exists chiefly in the inner bark of vascular and especially exogenous trees, and
is preserved in the interior with the greatest care: its escape externally results either from
disease, as in the case of plum and cherry-trees, from the puncture of insects, cracks in the
bark, or by artificial incisions. The death of the tree soon follows the loss of this important
juice, and thousands of trees of the genus acacia are annually sacrificed in different parts
of Africa to procure the gum-arabic of commerce. It is only in a few genera and tribes of trees,
that it exists in so concentrated a state as to assume the solid form on exposure to the air,
but in some of these the quantity is amazing. Hot countries are the chief abodes of such trees.
Thus, besides the immense quantity obtained from the acacias, the anacardium occidentale (cashew-nut
tree) in America, has furnished from a single tree a mass weighing forty-two pounds. Gum is
mawkish, insipid, and generally unpalatable, yet highly nutritive; and the Africans, during
the harvest of gum at Senegal, live entirely upon it, eight ounces being the daily allowance
for each man. In general they become plump on this fare; and such should be the result, if
the calculation be correct, which assigns as great nutritive power to four ounces of gum as
to one pound of bread. This concentration of nourishment renders gum a peculiarly suitable
food for lengthened journeys through the deserts, as it occupies small compass, and a little
suffices to stay the cravings of hunger. Thus, upwards of a thousand persons may occupy more
than two months in a journey from Abyssinia to Cairo without any other kind of food[X]. Its
bland, demulcent properties fit it to correct the acrimony of the secretions formed under the
influence of a tropical sun and torrid air, with a scanty and irregular supply of water. Plants,
likewise, are preserved in a vegetative and living state, mid sandy and arid wastes, by the
quantity of gum stored up in them. Hence succulent plants, such as cacti and others, may be
found in the steppes and sandy plains of South America, verdant and healthy, though no rain
may fall to convey fresh sap into them for months, or even a year. In the form of mucilage,
i. e., gum in a state of solution, it is found in a very large number of plants, and thus contributes
to the maintenance of man and animals. In these it is generally associated with some other
principles, which render it either more palatable or more easily digested. A very large number
of our esculent vegetables owe their nutritive properties to the gummy matters with which they
abound, and the favour with which they are regarded to the other matters united with it. Those
which have a bitter principle are very excellent, when this is in small proportion; and as,
in most of them, the gummy matter is prepared first, requiring for its formation only a moderate
degree of light and heat, while the bitter, or other principle, is added at a later period,
under the influence of stronger light; such plants, when young, are tender and agreeable; nay,
even very poisonous plants, when very young, are wholesome and pleasant, which, at a more advanced
season, are virose and disagreeable. Thus, the peasantry of France and Piedmont eat the young
crowfoots (ranunculus) and poppies, after boiling them, and find them safe and nourishing.
The same result follows exclusion of light, as in the process of blanching, by which means
celery, sea-kale, and other vegetables, are rendered esculent, which in the wild state are
poisonous or repulsive. In northern latitudes, the light being intense for a short time only,
many plants are used there which, in the southern, are dangerous or destructive, such as hemlock
and monkshood. A moderate degree of bitterness is a very useful accompaniment of the gum, which
alone is cloying and even oppressive to the stomach. The presence of a bitter principle in
many lichens promotes their digestion, and thus even the tough and leathery ones, called tripe
of the rocks, can be eaten, and sustain life amid great privations and sufferings. The rein-deer
moss (cludonia rangiferina) is another lichen of great utility: it is not much employed as
human food, but it is the main support of the rein-deer for a great portion of the year, and
thus renders Lapland a fit abode for man.

A peculiar modification of gum constitutes pectine or vegetable jelly; and this occurs in fruits,
such as the orange, currant, and gooseberry, &c., also in many of the algae or sea-weeds, which
are, or ought to be, much employed as a delicate article of nourishment. The edible swallow's
nest, so greatly esteemed by the Chinese, is an alga, gathered by the birds. The Ceylon moss
(Gigartina lichenoides), and the carrageen or Irish moss (Chondrus crispus), with many others,
might be made to contribute largely to the subsistence of man. (Ps. civ.)

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The Greeks used to say that reeds had contributed to subjugate a people, by furnishing
arrows; to soften their manner, by the charm of music; and to develop their intelligence, by
offering them the instruments proper for the formation of letters.--Humboldt's Personal Narrative.

"The reed presents itself as an object of peculiar veneration, when we reflect that it formed
the earliest instrument by which human ideas, and all the charms of literature and science
were communicated, and which has handed down to us the light of religion and the glow of genius
from the remotest ages."--Drummond's First Steps to Botany. The same people make bread of the
medullary flour of this palm, which it yields in great abundance, if cut down just before going
to flower.--Ibid., vol. iii. p. 278. To these circumstances Thomson alludes:--

    "Wide o'er his isles the branching Oronooque
    Rolls a brown deluge, and the native driven
    To dwell aloft on life-sufficing trees,
    At once his home, his robe, his food, his arms."

[C] The connection of navigation with the progress of civilization is most intimate, as may
be understood from the following passage:--

"Among the circumstances which have contributed to retard the progress of civilization in Africa,
one of the most important and influential is the compact and undivided form of the African
continent, and the natural barriers which render access to the greater regions of the interior
so remarkably difficult. It has been observed by Professor Ritter, that the civilization of
countries is greatly influenced by their geographical forms, and by the relation which their
interior spaces bear to the extent of coast. While all Asia is five times as large as Europe,
and Africa more than three times as large, the littoral margins of these larger continents
bear no similar proportion to their respective areas. Asia has seven thousand seven hundred
geographical miles of coast; Europe four thousand three hundred, and Africa only three thousand
five hundred. To every thirty-seven square miles of continent in Europe, there is one mile
of coast; in Africa, only one mile of coast to one hundred and fifty square miles of continent.
Therefore the relative extension of coast is four times as great in Europe as in Africa. Asia
is in the middle between these two extremes. To every one hundred and five square miles, it
has one mile of coast. The calculation of geographical spaces occupied by different parts of
the two last-mentioned continents, is still more striking. The ramifications of Asia, excluded
from the continental trapezium, make about one hundred and fifty-five thousand square miles
of that whole quarter, or about one-fifth part. The ramifications of the continental triangle
of Europe form one-third part of the whole, or even more. In Asia the stock is much greater
in proportion to the branches, and thence the more highly advanced culture of the branches
has remained, for the most part, excluded from the interior spaces. In Europe, on the other
hand, from the different relation of its spaces, the condition of the external parts had much
greater influence on that of the interior. Hence the higher culture of Greece and Italy penetrated
more easily into the interior, and gave to the whole continent one harmonious character of
civilization, while Asia contains many separate regions which may be compared, individually,
to Europe, and each of which could receive only its peculiar kind of culture from its own branches.
Africa, deficient in these endowments of nature, and wanting both separating gulfs, and inland
seas, could obtain no share in the expansion of that fruitful tree, which, having driven its
roots deeply in the heart of Asia, spread its branches and blossoms over the western and southern
tracts of the same continent, and expanded its crown over Europe. In Egypt alone it possessed
a river-system, so formed as to favor the development of similar productions. Die Erdkunde
von Aslen, von Carl Ritter. 2. Band. Einleitung. §24, 25. Berlin, 1832."--Pritchard, Researches
into the Physical History of Mankind. Third Edit. Vol. ii., p. 354.

[D] "Was it not for the manifestation of this brighter era, and the realization of its promised
blessings, that all else which preceded it was overruled by divine Providence, as subservient
and preparatory? All things being now ready, there began to spring up in the bosom of the British
churches, a wide and simultaneous sense of the solemn responsibility under which they had been
laid by the events of Providence, to avail themselves of so favorable an opening for the diffusion
of the gospel throughout the eastern world. Men, qualified to undertake the high commission,
must be sent across the ocean--and have not the toils, and perils, and successes, of Vasco
de Gama, and other navigators, opened up a safe and easy passage? That their labours might
pervade the country, and strike a deep and permanent root into the soil, they must be delivered
from the caprices of savage tyranny, and the ebullitions of heathen rage; and have not our
Clives and our Wellingtons wrested the rod of power from every wilful despot; and our Hastings
and our Wellesleys thrown the broad shield of British justice and British protection alike
over all? In order that they might the more effectually adapt their communications to the peculiarities
of the people, they must become acquainted with the learned language of the country, and through
it, with the real and original sources of all the prevailing opinions and observances, sacred
and civil. And have not our Joneses and our Colebrookes unfolded the whole, to prove subservient
to the cause of the Christian philanthropist? In this way have our navigators, our warriors,
our statesmen, and our literati, been unconsciously employed, under an over-ruling Providence,
as so many pioneers, to prepare the way for our Swartzes, our Buchanans, our Martins, and our
Careys."--Duff's India and India Missions.

[E] The relative proportions of starch and gluten in rice, wheat, and other seeds, not only
confirm the views respecting design, in determining their geographical distribution, but merit
notice, as influencing their nutritive qualities, and fitness or unfitness as food in different
countries.

    -----------------------------+---------+--------
                                 | Starch. | Gluten.
                                 +---------+--------
    Wheat, according to Proust   |  74.5   |  12.5
    ----          --    Vogel    |  68.0   |  24.0
    Winter wheat  --    Davy     |  77.0   |  19.0
    Spring wheat                 |  70.0   |  24.0
    Spelt         --    Vogel    |  74.0   |  22.0
    Barley        --    Davy     |  79.0   |   6.0
    Rye           --    Do.      |  61.0   |   5.0
    Oats          --    Do.      |  59.0   |   6.0
    Rice Carolina --    Vogel    |  85.07  |   3.60
    Maize         --    Bizio    |  80.92  |   0.
    Tartarian buckwheat          |  52.29  |  10.47
    -----------------------------+---------+--------

Not only do the relative proportions of starch and gluten vary in the same seed when grown
in different countries, but even when grown in the same country, according to the kind of manure
put on the soil, a point of great importance to agriculturists, when known and attended to.

[F] See "Church of England Magazine," vol. vii. p. 52-3-4.

[G] "I have been informed by Sir Joseph Banks, that the Derbyshire miners, in winter, prefer
oat-cakes to wheaten bread, finding that this kind of nourishment enables them to support their
strength and perform their labour better. In summer they say oat-cake heats them, and they
then consume the finest wheaten bread they can procure."--Sir H. Dacy's Agricultural Chemistry,
5th edit., p. 143.

The propriety and advantage of this practice is established by the recent investigations of
Boussingault, who found that oats contain more than double the quantity of nitrogen which exists
in any of the other cereal grains.--See Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. lxvii. p. 408-21.

[H] Carpenter's "General and Comparative Physiology," p. 272 and Dr. Prout's "Bridgewater Treatise,"
book iii.

[I] See Forrest's "Voyage to the Moluccas;" Craufurd's "Indian Archipelago, or Library of Entertaining
Knowledge, Vegetable Substances, Food of Man," p. 171. These are the habitations of the Guaraons
(see Sir W. Raleigh's Brevis Descript. Narrative, vol. v. p. 728.

[K] Davy's Agricultural Chemistry, p. 133.--According to Mr. Knight the best potatoes, such
as the Irish apple, possess much greater specific gravity than the inferior sorts, and this
variety yields nearly 20 per cent. of starch; while five pounds of the variety called Captain
Hart, yields 12 ounces of starch, and the Moulton White nearly as much, the Purple Red give
only 8½, the Ox Noble 8¼. There is much more profit in cultivating the former than the latter
sorts; but even the best kinds degenerate, and new sorts must be procured, as if to stimulate
the ingenuity of man, by preventing his enjoying the gifts of God, without constant exertion,
and observation of the laws which the Creator has impressed upon his productions. See the Observations
of Thomas Andrew Knight, and the experiments now making by Mr. Maund, of Bromsgrove.

[L] Duncan. Sacred Philosophy of the Seasons.

[M] Carpenter's Physiology.

[N] Thomson's Chemistry of Organic Bodies: Vegetables, p. 667.

[O] Vere magna et longe pulcherrima sunt etiam illa profundissimâ sapientiâ hic exstructa opera
tua, O Jehovah! quæ non nisi bene armatis nostris oculis patent! Qualia autem erunt denique
illa, quæ sublato hoc speculo, remotâ mortalitatis caligine daturus es tuis Te vere sincero
Pectore colentibus? Eheu qualia! Hedwig.

[P] Thomson's Chemistry. Vegetables, p. 630.

[Q] On the Culture and Uses of Potatoes, by sir John Sinclair, bart. This is a subject becoming
every year of greater moment, and attention to it a national benefit. The reduction of bulk
alone, facilitating the transport from one place to another, is an essential gain. The produce,
from a certain number of acres of this valuable esculent, may be greatly augmented by planting
the potatoes whole, at a great distance between each, and hoeing freely between them--See Knight's
Papers in Horticultural Transactions, and Payen et Chevalier, Traité de la Pomme de Terre.
Paris, 1826, p. 17.

[R] Humboldt. Personal Narrative, vol. iv. p. 84.

[S] "Among the plants cultivated by man, the sugar-cane, the plantain (musa), the mammee-apple
(mammea), and alligator-pear-tree (laurus persea) alone have the property of the cocoa-nut-tree,
that of being watered alike with fresh and salt water.

[T] "The quantity of these insects is incredible to all who have not themselves witnessed their
astonishing numbers; the whole earth is covered with them for the space of several leagues.
The noise they make in browsing on the trees and herbage may be heard at a great distance,
and resembles that of an army in secret. The Tartars themselves are a less destructive enemy
than these little animals. One would imagine that fire had followed their progress. Wherever
their myriads spread, the verdure of the country disappears; trees and plants stripped of their
leaves and reduced to their naked boughs and stems cause the dreary image of winter to succeed
in an instant to the rich scenery of spring. When these clouds of locusts take their flight,
to surmount any obstacles, or to traverse more rapidly a desert soil, the heavens may literally
be said to be obscured by them."

[V] Loudon's Arboretum Britannicum, vol. i., p. 412.

[W] For an interesting account of sugar, see Humboldt, Nova Genera et Species Plantarum, vol.
i., p. 243.

[X] Haselquist's Voyage.

THE SECURITY OF GOD'S PEOPLE:

A SERMON,

By the Venerable C. J. Hoare, M.A.,
  Archdeacon and Prebendary of Winchester.

Romans viii. 28.

    "And we know that all things work together for good to
    them that love God."

Amongst the observations most frequently heard in the world, is that made on the undeserved
prosperity of the wicked, and the many seemingly uncalled-for trials of the righteous. Experience
will indeed tell us, that neither of these opposite conditions is uninterrupted; neither is
it all sunshine in the most prosperous worldly lot; nor is it all gloom--far from it--in the
Christian's portion on earth. Experience will also go further, and will abundantly prove the
saying of the wise man, that "the prosperity of fools shall destroy them." Such success has
a tendency first to deceive, then to corrupt, and lastly to betray men into utter destruction.
But the text will lead us still further; it will teach us, that the trials of the righteous
preserve them--yea, work for good; and that "all things," and, therefore, even the greatest
trials, "work together for good to them that love God."

The text represents them as workmen. They work together for good; they are constantly at work
for that purpose, whether as instruments in God's hands, or as in a degree self-moving for
that end; they are constructing as it were a building, or they are laying a foundation; and
that which they lay--that which all things befalling a Christian are ever laying for him--is
a ground for his substantial, necessary, and eternal benefit. "We know that all things work
together for good to them that love God."

This, then, it will be, with God's blessing, my humble endeavour to show in the following discourse:
first, premising the sense of the word "good," in all just and reasonable acceptation; next,
showing more fully how all things may be thus said to "work for good to them that love God;"
finally, pointing out some of the many things which will be found by experience to work in
this very manner.

I. The term "good," it must be said in the first place, is very different, both in the language
of the bible and in the estimation of the truly wise, from what it usually represents in the
language and opinion of the world. The bible teaches us to view all things in their consequences,
and in their real and essential nature. View things in their consequences, in their final end
and issue, if you would view them at all justly or wisely. Ease, and health, and worldly wealth,
and success may be good, just as the plentiful feast is good, provided a man has temperance
and soundness of constitution properly to partake of it; but, if he is likely to indulge to
a surfeit, or if every morsel is food to some mortal disorder, and every cup adds strength
to a fever that is raging in his veins, no one in reason would call such an entertainment good
to such a man. And just so with the good things of this present life: the Christian does not
unreasonably deny that prosperity is pleasing, health desirable, friends and relations deeply
attaching to us, and the smiles of social endearment or public favour greatly captivating;
but neither does he, like the world, consider them to be necessarily all they seem to be, good
to all persons, and under all circumstances; he does not forget that earthly and bodily good
is just what it becomes in the use of it; that many times the use can hardly be separated from
the abuse; that lawful things, when unlawfully or idolatrously used, are just as evil as unlawful
ones--nay, rather, that for a few comparatively who have perished from a hardened course of
forbidden pleasure, multitudes have been for ever lost by allowed indulgences. Till he sees,
then, the application made, and the resulting consequences of any worldly boon, he does not
call the possessor happy, nor the possession good, nor very eagerly or supremely does he desire
it either for himself or others.

