AN EXPOSITORY OUTLINE

OF THE

"VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION;"

WITH A COMPREHENSIVE AND CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF THE ARGUMENTS BY WHICH THE EXTRAORDINARY HYPOTHESES
OF THE AUTHOR ARE SUPPORTED AND HAVE BEEN IMPUGNED, WITH THEIR BEARING UPON THE RELIGIOUS AND
MORAL INTERESTS OF THE COMMUNITY.

WITH A NOTICE OF THE AUTHOR'S

"EXPLANATIONS:"

A SEQUEL TO THE VESTIGES.

       *       *       *       *       *

Originally printed in a Supplement of THE ATLAS Newspaper of August 30 and December 20, 1845.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON: EFFINGHAM WILSON, ROYAL EXCHANGE. J. VINCENT, OXFORD; G. ANDREWS, DURHAM; J. TEPPELL,
NORWICH; BRODIE AND CO., SALISBURY. A. AND C. BLACK, EDINBURGH; D. ROBERTSON, GLASGOW; A. BROWN
AND CO., ABERDEEN. W. CURRY, JUN., AND CO., DUBLIN.

1846.

ADVERTISEMENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following tractate first appeared in the form of a literary review in a supplement of the
ATLAS; but two impressions of that journal having been long since exhausted, and inquiries
still continuing numerous and urgent, the proprietor has granted permission for the article
to be reprinted in a separate, more convenient, and perhaps enduring vehicle than that of a
newspaper.

Few works of a scientific import have been published that so promptly and deeply fixed public
attention as the Vestiges of Creation, or elicited more numerous replies and sharper critical
analysis and disquisition. Upon so vast a question as the evolution of universal creation differences
of opinion were natural and unavoidable. Many have disputed the accuracy of some of the author's
facts, and the sequence and validity of his inductive inferences; but few can withhold from
him the praise of a patient and intrepid spirit of inquiry, much occasional eloquence, and
very considerable powers of analysis, systematic induction, arrangement and combination.

In what follows the leading objects kept in view have been--first, an expository outline of
the author's facts and argument; next, of the chief reasons by which they have been impugned
by Professor SEDGWICK, Professor WHEWELL, Mr. BOSANQUET, and others who have entered the lists
of controversy. These arrayed, the concluding purpose fitly followed of a brief exhibition
of the relative strength of the main points in issue, with their bearing on the moral and religious
interests of the community.

It is the fourth and latest edition that has been submitted to investigation. In this impression
the author has introduced several corrections and alterations, without, however, any infringement
or mitigation of its original scope and character. More recently appeared his "Explanations,"
a Sequel to the "Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation;" in which the author endeavours
to elucidate and strengthen his former position. This had become necessary in consequence of
the number of his opponents, and the inquiry and discussion to which the original publication
had given rise. Of this, also, a lengthened review was given in the ATLAS, which has been included;
so that the reader will now have before him a succinct outline of a novel and interesting topic
of philosophical investigation.

In the present reprint a few corrections have been made, and the illustrative table at page
34, and some other additions, introduced.

London, January 1, 1846.

AN EXPOSITORY OUTLINE

OF THE

"VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION."

It rarely happens that speculative inquiries in England command much attention, and the Vestiges
of Creation would have probably formed no exception, had it not been from the unusual ability
with which the work has been executed. The subject investigated is one of vast, almost universal,
interest; for everyone--the low, in common with the high in intellect--find enigmas in creation
that they would gladly have unriddled, and promptly gather round the oracle who has boldly
stepped forth to cut the knot of their perplexities. The first impression made, too, is favourable.
No very striking originality, eloquence, or genius, is displayed; yet there is ingenuity; and
though the author betrays the zeal of an advocate, desirous of leading to a determinate and
material conclusion, his address, like that of the apostle of temperance, is mostly mild and
equable, with occasionally a little gentlemanly fervour to give animation to his discourse.
His style is mostly felicitous, sometimes beautiful, lucid, precise, and elevated. In tone
and manner of execution, in quiet steadiness of purpose, in the firm, intrepid spirit with
which truth, or that which is conceived to be true, is followed, regardless of startling presentments,
the Vestiges call to mind the Mecanique Celeste, or Système du Monde. In caution, as in science,
the author is immeasurably inferior to LAPLACE; but in magnitude and boldness of design he
transcends the illustrious Frenchman. LAPLACE sought no more than to subject the celestial
movements to the formulas of analysis, and reconcile to common observation terrestrial appearances;
but our author is far more ambitious--more venturesome in aim--which is nothing less than to
lift the veil of ISIS, and solve the phenomena of universal nature. With what success remains
to be considered. That great skill and cleverness, that a very superior mastery is evinced,
we have conceded, and, we will also add, great show of fairness in treatment and conclusion.

No partial opening is made; the great design, in all its extent, is manfully grappled with.
The universe is first surveyed, next the mystery of its origin. After ranging through sidereal
space, examining the bodies found there, their arrangement, formation, and evolution, the author
selects our own planet for especial interrogation. He disembowels it, scrutinizing the internal
evidences of its structure and history, and thence infers the causes of past vicissitudes,
existing relations, and appearances. These disposed of, the surface is explored, the phenomena
of animal and vegetable existence contemplated, and the sources of vital action, sexual differences,
and diversities of species assigned. Man, as the supreme head and last work of progressive
creation, challenges a distinct consideration; his history and mental constitution are investigated,
and the relation in which a sublime reason stands to the instinct of brutes discriminated.
The end and purpose of all appropriately form the concluding theme, which finished, the curtain
drops, and the last sounds heard are that the name of the Great Unknown will probably never
be revealed; that "praise will elicit no response," nor any "word of censure" be parried or
deprecated.

"Give me," exclaimed ARCHIMEDES, "a fulcrum, and I will raise the earth." "Give me," says the
author of the Vestiges, "gravitation and development, and I will create a universe." ALEXANDER'S
ambition was to conquer a world, our author's is to create one. But he is wrong in saying that
his is the "first attempt to connect the natural sciences into a history of creation, and thence
to eliminate a view of nature as one grand system of causation." The attempt has been often
made, but utterly failed; its results have been found valueless, hurtful--to have occupied
without enlarging the intellect, and the very effort has long been discountenanced. Great advances,
however, have been made in science since system-making began to be discredited; nature has
been perseveringly ransacked in all her domains, and many extraordinary secrets drawn from
her laboratory. Astronomy and geology, chemistry and electricity, have greatly extended the
bounds of knowledge; still, we apprehend, we are not yet sufficiently armed with facts to resolve
into one consistent whole her infinite variety.

Efforts at generalization, however, and the systematic arrangement of natural phenomena, are
seldom wholly fruitless. If false, they tend to provoke discussion--to lead to active thought
and useful research. A solitary truth, though new and useful, rarely obtains higher distinction
than to be quietly placed on the rolls of science, while a bold speculation, traversing the
whole field of creation, and smoothing all its difficulties, satisfies for the moment, and
fixes general attention. Of this the Vestiges of Creation are an example. Without adding to
our positive knowledge by a single new discovery, demonstration, or experiment, they have excited
more interest than the Principia of NEWTON. From this popular success, if good do not accrue,
no great evil need be anticipated. Hypotheses are most hurtful when accredited by an irreversible
authority--when erected into a tribunal without appeal, they become the arbitrary dictator
in lieu of the handmaid of science. Discussion and invention, in place of being stimulated,
are then fettered by them; the human mind is enslaved, as Europe was for centuries by the Physics
of ARISTOTLE, and still continues to be in some of the ancient retreats and conservatories
of exploded errors. But these form the exceptions, not the rule of the age, which is free and
equal inquiry. Errors have ceased to have prescriptive immunities; and mere conjectures, however
sanctioned or plausible, if inconsistent with science--with the ascertained facts of experiment
and observation, are speedily passed into the region of dreams and chimeras.

Whether this will be the fate of our author remains to be proved. The moment selected for his
appearance has at least been well chosen. The Vestiges have the air of novelty, a long time
having elapsed since any one had the hardihood to propound a new system of Nature. In common
with most manifestations of our time, his effort exhibits a marked improvement on the crudities
of his predecessors in the same line of architectural ambition. Science has been called to
his aid, and the patient ingenuity with which he has sought to make the latest discoveries
subservient to his purpose challenges admiration, if not acquiescence. Some of our contemporaries
have been warmed into almost theological aversion by the boldness of his conclusions, but we
see little cause for fear, and none for bitterness or apprehension. More closely Nature is
investigated and deeper the impression will become of her majesty and might. Unlike earthly
greatnesses, she loses no power--no grandeur--no fascination--no prestige, by familiarity.
The greatest philosophers will always rank among her greatest admirers and most devout and
fervent worshippers.

Had our author proved all he has assumed our faith would not be lessened, nor our wonder diminished.
Whether matter or spirit has been the world's architect, the astounding miracle of its creation
is not the less. What does it import whether it resulted direct from the fiat of Omnipotence,
or intermediately from the properties He impressed, or the law of development He prescribed?
He who gave the law, who infused the energies by which Chaos was transmuted into an organized
universe, remains great and inscrutable as ever.

It is time, however, that we entered upon a more detailed and closer investigation of the Vestiges
of Creation. Our purpose is not hastily, and without examination, to deprecate, deny, or controvert;
but patiently, and without prejudice, to inquire, to submit faithfully and intelligibly the
outlines of a remarkable treatise; describe briefly its scope and bearing, the arguments by
which they are supported, and the counter reasons by which they appear to be wholly or partially
impugned. Our readers will thus be enabled to appreciate the merits of a controversy, the most
comprehensive and interesting that for a lengthened period has occupied the attention of the
scientific and intellectual world.

For greater clearness of exposition we shall endeavour to follow the order observed by the
author in the division and treatment of his subjects, commencing first with the

BODIES OF SPACE.

The author opens his subject with a brief but luminous outline of the arrangement and formation
of the astral and planetary systems of the heavens. He first describes the solar system, of
which our earth is a member, consisting of the sun, planets, and satellites with the less intelligible
orbs termed comets, and taking as the uttermost bounds of this system the orbit of Uranus,
it occupies a portion of space not less than three thousand six hundred millions of miles in
diameter. Vast as is the solar system, it is only one of an infinity of others which may be
still more extensive. Our sun is supposed to be a star belonging to a constellation of stars,
each of which has its accompaniment of revolving planets; and the constellation itself with
similar constellations to form revolving clusters round some mightier centre of attraction;
and so on, each astral combination increasing in number, magnitude, and complexity, till the
mind is utterly lost in the vain effort to grasp the limitless arrangement.

Of the stars astronomers can hardly be said to know anything with certainty. Sirius, which
is the most lustrous, was long supposed to be the nearest and most within the reach of observation,
but all attempts to calculate the distance of that luminary have proved futile. Of its inconceivable
remoteness some notion may be formed by the fact, that the diameter of the earth's annual orbit,
if viewed from it, would dwindle into an invisible point. This is what is meant by the stars
not having, like the planets, a parallax; that is, the earths' orbit, as seen from them, does
not subtend a measurable angle. With two other stars, however, astronomers have unexpectedly
and recently been more fortunate than with Sirius, and have been able to calculate their distances
from the earth. The celebrated BESSEL, and soon afterwards, the late Mr. HENDERSON, astronomer
royal for Scotland, were the first to surmount the difficulty that had baffled the telescopic
resources of the HERSCHELS. BESSEL detected a parallax of one-third of a second in the star
61 Cygni, and in the constellation of the Centaur HENDERSON found another star whose parallax
amounted to one second. Of the million of fixed glittering points that adorn the sky, these
are the only two whose distances have been calculated, and to express them, miles, leagues,
or orbits seems inadequate. Light, whose speed is known to be 192,000 miles per second, would
be three years in reaching our earth from the star of HENDERSON; and starting from BESSEL'S
star and moving at the same rate it could only reach us in ten years. These are the nearest
stars, but there are others whose distances are immeasurably greater, and whose light, though
starting from them at the beginning of creation, may not have reached our globe!

The stars visible to the eye are about 3,000, but the number increases with every increase
of telescopic power, and may be said to be innumerable. They are not of uniform lustre or form,
but vary in figure and brightness. Some of them have a nebulous or cloudy appearance; and there
are entire clusters with this dusky aspect, mostly pervaded, however, with luminous points
of more brilliant hue. In the outer fields of astral space Sir WILLIAM HERSCHEL observed a
multitude of nebulæ, one or two of which may be seen by the naked eye. All of them, when seen
by instruments of low power, look like masses of luminous vapour; but some of them had brighter
spots, suggesting to Sir WILLIAM the idea of a condensation of the nebulous matter round one
or more centres. But when these luminous masses are examined by more powerful instruments many
of them lose their cloudy form, and are resolved into shining points, "like spangles of diamond
dust." It is in this way several nebulæ have yielded to the gigantic reflector of Lord ROSSE,
and others with still greater optical resources may follow. This brings us to the first questionable
and controversial portion of the Vestiges; namely,--the

NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS.

It is among the gaseous bodies just described, in the outer boundary of Nature, which neither
telescope nor geometry can well reach, that speculation has laid its venue, and commenced its
aerial castles. LAPLACE was the first to suggest the nebular hypothesis, which he did with
great diffidence, not as a theory proved, or hardly likely, but as a mathematical possibility
or illustration. His range of creation, moreover, was not so vast as that of our author, which
assumes to compass the entire universe, but was limited to the evolution of the solar system.
The mode in which this might be evolved, LAPLACE thus explains:--

He conjectures that in the original condition of the solar system the sun revolved upon his
axis, surrounded by an atmosphere which, in virtue of an excessive heat, extended far beyond
the orbits of all the planets, the planets as yet having no existence. The heat gradually diminished,
and as the solar atmosphere contracted by cooling, the rapidity of its rotation increased by
the laws of rotatory motion, and an exterior zone of vapour was detached from the rest, the
central attraction being no longer able to overcome the increased centrifugal force. The zone
of vapour might in some cases retain its form, as we still see in Saturn's ring; but more usually
the ring of vapour would break into several masses, and these would generally coalesce into
one mass, which would revolve about the sun. Such portions of the solar atmosphere abandoned
successively at different distances, would form planets in the state of vapour. These masses
of vapour, it appears from mechanical laws, would have each its rotatory motion, and as the
cooling of the vapour still went on, would each produce a planet that might have satellites
and rings formed from the planet, in the same manner as the planets were formed from the atmosphere
of the sun.

All the known motions of the solar system are consistent and reconcileable with this theory
of LAPLACE, and upon it the author of the Vestiges has enlarged and founded his wider scheme
of physical creation. He supposes the void of nature to have been originally filled with a
universal FIRE MIST (p. 30), out of which all the celestial orbs were made and put in motion.
How this mist was put in activity, and resolved into the luminous and revolving bodies that
we now see, and one of which we inhabit is the first urgent perplexity to surmount in the conjecture.
It is manifest that if a mist filled the entire region of space, a mist it must for ever remain,
unless acted upon by some cause adequate to give it new action and arrangement. No sun, no
stars or planets could spontaneously emanate from an inert vapour any more than from nothing.

Up to this, however, the author has proved nothing. The existence of the fire-mist and nuclei
are assumptions only, and the way by which he tries to account for rotatory motion is clearly
erroneous. The aggregation of matter round the nuclei by gravitation would have no such tendency;
no more than a perfect balance would of itself have a tendency to move about its fulcrum, or
a falling stone to deviate from its vertical course. Gravitation would indeed compress the
particles of matter, but its tendency and entire action is towards the nucleus; it compresses
them no more on one side of the line of their direction to the centre of force than on any
other side; and hence no lateral or rotatory motion would ensue. No such effect would follow
the conditions stated, and an entire ignorance is betrayed of the laws of mechanical philosophy.
In the whirlpool and the whirlwind the gyration is caused by the fluid passing, not to the
centre, but through it and away from it; in the whirlpool downwards through the place of exit,
in the whirlwind upwards to where the vacuum has caused the rapid aggregation.

LAPLACE was too able a mathematician to commit these elementary blunders; he did not assume
to account for rotation by inapplicable laws, but took for granted that the sun revolved upon
its axis, and thence communicated a corresponding motion to the bodies thrown from its surface.
But our author has sought to advance beyond his teacher, and in this way has shown his ignorance
of physics by an egregious mistake. At this point we might stop, without following the ulterior
steps by which the solar system is made to evolve out of heated vapour. Having got rotation,
though by an impossible process, the author falls into the illustration already given of the
theory of LAPLACE. The rotation of each nucleus or sun round its axis produces centrifugal
force; that force, by refrigeration, increases beyond the centripetal force of gravity; in
consequence rings are formed and detached from the surface, whose unequal coherence of parts
mostly causes them to break into separate masses or planets, partaking of the motion of the
bodies from which they have been separated, and these primaries in their turn becoming centres
of gravitation and centrifugal force, throw off their secondaries, or moons.

In this way the solar system and other systems upon a similar plan of arrangement, it is conjectured,
may have been formed. According to the author the generative process is still in progress,
and new worlds are in course of being thrown off from new suns in the confines of creation.
These nebulous stars on the outer bounds of space, of varying forms and brightness, are supposed
to be the centres of new systems in different stages of development, like children of various
ages and growth in a numerous family.

All this is ingenious and fluently expressed. The author has an easy way of surmounting his
difficulties by the use of such little auxiliary phrases, as "of course," "it may be surmised,"
"it is reasonable to suppose," and so on; which, though trifling in themselves, help him in
their connecting inferences through many embarrassing perplexities. But his hypothesis is yet
unproved; his fire-mist is only a conjecture; his nuclei, scattered like so many eggs in space
out of which future suns and worlds are in process of incubation, is of the same description,
and rotation, the first step in his process of creation, would not ensue under the conditions
he has assigned. Without dwelling on these shortcomings, we shall terminate this portion of
the author's inquiry with a few general strictures. First, on its inconsistency with what we
know of the solar system; and, secondly, on its inadequacy to explain the facts of which we
are cognizant on our own globe.

In the first place, for the hypothesis to be applicable to our system, it is requisite that
the primary and secondary bodies should revolve, both in their orbits and round their axes,
in one direction, and nearly in one plane. Most of the bodies of the system observe these laws,
their orbits are nearly circular, nearly in the plane of the original equator of the solar
rotation, and in the direction of that rotation. But there are exceptions; the comets, which
intersect the equatorial plane in every angle of direction form one, and the most distant of
the planets forms another. The satellites of Uranus are retrograde. They move from east to
west in orbits highly inclined to that of their primary, and on both accounts are exceptions
to the order of the other secondary bodies. Our author is so perplexed by this inconsistency
that he first doubts the fact, and next tries to explain it by alleging that "it may be owing
to a bouleversement of the primary." What is meant by the bouleversement of a planet none of
his critics seem to apprehend, nor do we. But that the moons of Uranus are contrariwise to
those of the other planets, Sir JOHN HERSCHEL has indubitably established; so that the author
at any rate upon this point has sustained a bouleversement.

Our own moon forms a third exception to his theory. According to his system, this satellite
is a slip or graft from our planet, and in constitution, it might be inferred, would partake
of the elements of the parent. But the fact is otherwise. The moon has no atmosphere, no seas,
or rivers, nor any water, and of course totally unfit for human inhabitants, or organic life
of any kind. It must, then, have had a different origin, or be in some earlier stage of development
than that through which our earth has passed.

Leaving these exceptions, we may next inquire into the relevant purposes of the nebular hypothesis,
supposing its assumptions acquiesced in. Like the fanciful theories of the ancient philosophers,
it seems only to involve a profitless topic of controversy, without solving natural phenomena.
It does not unravel the mystery of the beginning, brings us no nearer to the first creative
force. Like a good chemist, previous to analysis, the author first throws all matter into a
state of solution; but granting him his fire-mist and nuclei in the midst, how or whence came
this condition and arrangement of nature? What was its pre-existing state? or, if that be answered,
how or whence was that preceding state educed, for it, too, must have had one prior to it?
So that the mind makes no advances by such inquiries, is lost in a maze that can have no end,
because it has no beginning; and, like Noah's messenger, for want of a resting place, is compelled
to return to the first starting point. Easier, and quite as satisfactory, it seems to believe,
as we have been taught to believe, that the celestial spheres were at once perfect and entire,
projected into space from the hands of the maker, than that they were elaborated out of luminous
vapour by gravity and condensation. Hopeless inquiry is thus foreclosed, an inquisition that
cannot be answered, silenced, and removed out of the pale of discussion.

It is not from any attribute of the Deity being impugned that the hypothesis is objectionable.
Design and intelligence in the creation are left paramount as before, and our impression of
the skill exercised, and the means employed, only transferred to another part of the work.
He who produced the primordial condition the author supposes, who filled space with such a
mist, composed of such materials, subjected to such laws, such constitution, that sun, moon,
and stars necessarily resulted from them, appears omnipotent as ever. But it does not advance
inquiry, nor assist us in explaining the wonders we contemplate in our own globe. Suppose a
planet formed by the author's process, what kind of a body would it be? Something, as Professor
WHEWELL suggests, resembling a large meteoric stone. How after wards came this unformed mass
to be like our earth, to be covered with motion and organization, with life and general felicity?
What primitive cause stocked it with plants and animals, and produced all the surprising and
subtle contrivances which we find in their structure, all the wide and profound mutual dependence
which we trace in their economy? Is it possible to conceive, as the Vestiges inculcate, that
man, with his sentiment and intellect, his powers and passions, his will and conscience, were
also produced as the ultimate result of vapourous condensation?

