The eagerness with which I longed to fix in my wished-for retirement, made me imagine that
when I had once reached it, even the pursuit of health would be an insufficient inducement
to determine me to leave my retreat. I therefore chose to make the advised tour before I went
into the north. As the pleasure arising from a variety of beautiful objects is but half enjoyed
when we have no one to share it with us, I accepted the offer Mr Lamont (the son of my old
friend) made of accompanying me in my journey. As this young gentleman has not the good fortune
to be known to you, it may not be amiss, as will appear in the sequel, to let you into his
character.

Mr Lamont is a young man of about twenty-five years of age, of an agreeable person, and lively
understanding; both perhaps have concurred to render him a coxcomb. The vivacity of his parts
soon gained him such a degree of encouragement as excited his vanity, and raised in him a high
opinion of himself. A very generous father enabled him to partake of every fashionable amusement,
and the natural bent of his mind soon led him into all the dissipation which the gay world
affords. Useful and improving studies were laid aside for such desultory reading as he found
most proper to furnish him with topics for conversation in the idle societies he frequented.
Thus that vivacity, which, properly qualified, might have become true wit, degenerated into
pertness and impertinence. A consciousness of an understanding, which he never exerted, rendered
him conceited; those talents which nature kindly bestowed upon him, by being perverted, gave
rise to his greatest faults. His reasoning faculty, by a partial and superficial use, led him
to infidelity, and the desire of being thought superiorly distinguishing established him an
infidel. Fashion, not reason, has been the guide of all his thoughts and actions. But with
these faults he is good-natured, and not unentertaining, especially in a tête-à-tête, where
he does not desire to shine, and therefore his vanity lies dormant and suffers the best qualifications
of his mind to break forth. This induced me to accept him as a fellow traveller.

We proceeded on our journey as far as Cornwall, without meeting with any other than the usual
incidents of the road, till one afternoon, when our chaise broke down. The worst circumstance
attending this accident was our being several miles from a town, and so ignorant of the country,
that we knew not whether there was any village within a moderate distance. We sent the postilion
on my man's horse to the next town to fetch a smith, and leaving my servant to guard the chaise,
Mr Lamont and I walked towards an avenue of oaks, which we observed at a small distance. The
thick shade they afforded us, the fragrance wafted from the woodbines with which they were
encircled, was so delightful, and the beauty of the grounds so very attracting, that we strolled
on, desirous of approaching the house to which this avenue led. It is a mile and a half in
length, but the eye is so charmed with the remarkable verdure and neatness of the fields, with
the beauty of the flowers which are planted all around them and seem to mix with the quickset
hedges, that time steals away insensibly.

When we had walked about half a mile in a scene truly pastoral, we began to think ourselves
in the days of Theocritus, so sweetly did the sound of a flute come wafted through the air.
Never did pastoral swain make sweeter melody on his oaten reed. Our ears now afforded us fresh
attraction, and with quicker steps we proceeded, till we came within sight of the musician
that had charmed us. Our pleasure was not a little heightened, to see, as the scene promised,
in reality a shepherd, watching a large flock of sheep. We continued motionless, listening
to his music, till a lamb straying from its fold demanded his care, and he laid aside his instrument,
to guide home the little wanderer.

Curiosity now prompted us to walk on; the nearer we came to the house, the greater we found
the profusion of flowers which ornamented every field. Some had no other defence than hedges
of rose trees and sweetbriars, so artfully planted, that they made a very thick hedge, while
at the lower part, pinks, jonquils, hyacinths, and various other flowers, seemed to grow under
their protection. Primroses, violets, lilies of the valley, and polyanthuses enriched such
shady spots, as, for want of sun, were not well calculated for the production of other flowers.
The mixture of perfumes which exhaled from this profusion composed the highest fragrance, and
sometimes the different scents regaled the senses alternately, and filled us with reflections
on the infinite variety of nature.

When we were within about a quarter of a mile of the house, the scene became still more animated.
On one side was the greatest variety of cattle, the most beautiful of their kinds, grazing
in fields whose verdure equalled that of the finest turf, nor were they destitute of their
ornaments, only the woodbines and jessamine, and such flowers as might have tempted the inhabitants
of these pastures to crop them, were defended with roses and sweetbriars, whose thorns preserved
them from all attacks.

Though Lamont had hitherto been little accustomed to admire nature, yet was he much captivated
with this scene, and with his usual levity cried out, 'If Nebuchadnezzar had such pastures
as these to range in, his seven years expulsion from human society might not be the least agreeable
part of his life.' My attention was too much engaged to criticize the light turn of Lamont's
mind, nor did his thoughts continue long on the same subject, for our observation was soon
called off by a company of hay-makers in the fields on the other side of the avenue. The cleanliness
and neatness of the young women thus employed, rendered them a more pleasing subject for Lamont's
contemplation than any thing we had yet seen; in them we beheld rural simplicity, without any
of those marks of poverty and boorish rusticity, which would have spoilt the pastoral air of
the scene around us; but not even the happy amiable innocence, which their figures and countenances
expressed, gave me so much satisfaction as the sight of the number of children, who were all
exerting the utmost of their strength, with an air of delighted emulation between themselves,
to contribute their share to the general undertaking. Their eyes sparkled with that spirit
which health and activity can only give, and their rosy cheeks shewed the benefits of youthful
labour.

Curiosity is one of those insatiable passions that grow by gratification; it still prompted
us to proceed, not unsatisfied with what we had seen, but desirous to see still more of this
earthly paradise. We approached the house, wherein, as it was the only human habitation in
view, we imagined must reside the Primum Mobile of all we had yet beheld. We were admiring
the magnificence of the ancient structure, and inclined to believe it the abode of the genius
which presided over this fairy land, when we were surprised by a storm, which had been some
time gathering over our heads, though our thoughts had been too agreeably engaged to pay much
attention to it. We took shelter under the thick shade of a large oak, but the violence of
the thunder and lightning made our situation rather uncomfortable. All those whom we had a
little before seen so busy left their work on hearing the first clap of thunder and ran with
the utmost speed to Millenium Hall, so I shall call the noble mansion of which I am speaking,
as to an assured asylum against every evil.

Some of these persons, I imagine, perceived us; for immediately after they entered, came out
a woman who, by her air and manner of address, we guessed to be the housekeeper, and desired
us to walk into the house till the storm was over. We made some difficulties about taking that
liberty, but she still persisting in her invitation, had my curiosity to see the inhabitants
of this hospitable mansion been less, I could not have refused to comply, as by prolonging
these ceremonious altercations I was detaining her in the storm; we therefore agreed to follow her.

If we had been inclined before to fancy ourselves on enchanted ground, when after being led
through a large hall, we were introduced to the ladies, who knew nothing of what had passed,
I could scarcely forbear believing myself in the Attic school. The room where they sat was
about forty-five feet long, of a proportionable breadth, with three windows on one side, which
looked into a garden, and a large bow at the upper end. Over against the windows were three
large bookcases, upon the top of the middle one stood an orrery, and a globe on each of the
others. In the bow sat two ladies reading, with pen, ink and paper on a table before them at
which was a young girl translating out of French. At the lower end of the room was a lady painting,
with exquisite art indeed, a beautiful Madonna; near her another, drawing a landscape out of
her own imagination; a third, carving a picture-frame in wood, in the finest manner, a fourth,
engraving; and a young girl reading aloud to them; the distance from the ladies in the bow
window being such, that they could receive no disturbance from her. At the next window were
placed a group of girls, from the age of ten years old to fourteen. Of these, one was drawing
figures, another a landscape, a third a perspective view, a fourth engraving, a fifth carving,
a sixth turning in wood, a seventh writing, an eighth cutting out linen, another making a gown,
and by them an empty chair and a tent, with embroidery, finely fancied, before it, which we
afterwards found had been left by a young girl who was gone to practise on the harpsichord.

As soon as we entered they all rose up, and the housekeeper introduced us by saying she saw
us standing under a tree to avoid the storm and so had desired us to walk in. The ladies received
us with the greatest politeness, and expressed concern that when their house was so near, we
should have recourse to so insufficient a shelter. Our surprise at the sight of so uncommon
a society occasioned our making but an awkward return to their obliging reception; nor when
we observed how many arts we had interrupted, could we avoid being ashamed that we had then
intruded upon them.

But before I proceed farther, I shall endeavour to give you some idea of the persons of the
ladies, whose minds I shall afterwards best describe by their actions. The two who sat in the
bow window were called Mrs Maynard and Miss Selvyn. Mrs Maynard is between forty and fifty
years of age, a little woman, well made, with a lively and genteel air, her hair black, and
her eyes of the same colour, bright and piercing, her features good, and complexion agreeable,
though brown. Her countenance expresses all the vivacity of youth, tempered with a serenity
which becomes her age.

Miss Selvyn can scarcely be called tall, though she approaches that standard. Her features
are too irregular to be handsome, but there is a sensibility and delicacy in her countenance
which render her extremely engaging; and her person is elegant.

Miss Mancel, whom we had disturbed from her painting, is tall and finely formed, has great
elegance of figure, and is graceful in every motion. Her hair is of a fine brown, her eyes
blue, with all that sensible sweetness which is peculiar to that colour. In short, she excels
in every beauty but the bloom, which is so soon faded, and so impossible to be imitated by
the utmost efforts of art, nor has she suffered any farther by years than the loss of that
radiance which renders beauty rather more resplendent than more pleasing.

Miss Trentham, who was carving by her, was the tallest of the company, and in dignity of air
particularly excels, but her features and complexion have been so injured by the smallpox,
that one can but just guess they were once uncommonly fine; a sweetness of countenance, and
a very sensible look, indeed, still remain, and have baffled all the most cruel ravages of
that distemper.

Lady Mary Jones, whom we found engraving, seems to have been rather pleasing than beautiful.
She is thin and pale, but a pair of the finest black eyes I ever saw, animate, to a great degree,
a countenance which sickness has done its utmost to render languid, but has, perhaps, only
made more delicate and amiable. Her person is exquisitely genteel, and her voice, in common
speech, enchantingly melodious.

Mrs Morgan, the lady who was drawing, appears to be upwards of fifty, tall, rather plump, and
extremely majestic, an air of dignity distinguishes her person, and every virtue is engraven
in indelible characters on her countenance. There is a benignity in every look, which renders
the decline of life, if possible, more amiable than the bloom of youth. One would almost think
nature had formed her for a common parent, such universal and tender benevolence beams from
every glance she casts around her.

The dress of the ladies was thus far uniform, the same neatness, the same simplicity and cleanliness
appeared in each, and they were all in lutestring night-gowns, though of different colours,
nor was there any thing unfashionable in their appearance, except that they were free from
any trumpery ornaments. The girls were all clothed in camblet coats, but not uniform in colour,
their linen extremely white and clean though coarse. Some of them were pretty, and none had
any defect in person, to take off from that general pleasingness which attends youth and innocence.

They had been taught such a habit of attention that they seemed not at all disturbed by our
conversation, which was of that general kind, as might naturally be expected on such an occasion,
though supported by the ladies with more sensible vivacity and politeness than is usual where
part of the company are such total strangers to the rest; till by chance one of the ladies
called Mrs Maynard by her name.

From the moment I saw her, I thought her face not unknown to me, but could not recollect where
or when I had been acquainted with her, but her name brought to my recollection, that she was
not only an old acquaintance, but a near relation. I observed that she had looked on me with
particular attention, and I begged her to give me leave to ask her of what family of Maynards
she was. Her answer confirmed my supposition, and as she told me that she believed she had
some remembrance of my face, I soon made her recollect our affinity and former intimacy, though
my twenty years abode in Jamaica, the alteration the climate had wrought in me, and time had
made in us both, had almost effaced us from each other's memory.

There is great pleasure in renewing the acquaintance of our youth; a thousand pleasing ideas
accompany it; many mirthful scenes and juvenile amusements return to the remembrance, and make
us, as it were, live over again what is generally the most pleasing part of life. Mrs Maynard
seemed no less sensible of the satisfaction arising from this train of thoughts than myself,
and the rest of the company were so indulgently good-natured, as in appearance, to share them
with us. The tea table by no means interrupted our conversation, and I believe I should have
forgot that our journey was not at an end, if a servant had not brought in word, that my man,
who had observed our motions, was come to inform us that our chaise could not be repaired that
night.

The ladies immediately declared that though their equipage was in order, they would not suffer
it to put an end to a pleasure they owed to the accident which had happened to ours, and insisted
we should give them our company till the smith had made all necessary reparations, adding,
that I could not be obstinately bent on depriving Mrs Maynard so soon of the satisfaction she
received from having recovered so long lost a relation. I was little inclined to reject this
invitation: pleasure was the chief design of my journey, and I saw not how I could receive
more than by remaining in a family so extraordinary, and so perfectly agreeable. When both
parties are well agreed, the necessary ceremonies previous to a compliance are soon over, and
it was settled that we should not think of departing before the next day at soonest.

The continuance of the rain rendered it impossible to stir out of the house; my cousin, who
seemed to think variety necessary to amuse, asked if we loved music, which being answered in
the affirmative, she begged the other ladies to entertain us with one of their family concerts,
and we joining in the petition, proper orders were given, and we adjourned into another room,
which was well furnished with musical instruments. Over the door was a beautiful Saint Cecilia,
painted in crayons by Miss Mancel, and a fine piece of carved work over the chimney, done by
Miss Trentham, which was a very artificial representation of every sort of musical instrument.

While we were admiring these performances, the company took their respective places. Miss Mancel
seated herself at the harpsichord, Lady Mary Jones played on the arch lute, Mrs Morgan on the
organ, Miss Selvyn and Miss Trentham each on the six-stringed bass; the shepherd who had charmed
us in the field was there with his German flute, a venerable looking man, who is their steward,
played on the violincello, a lame youth on the French horn, another, who seemed very near blind,
on the bassoon, and two on the fiddle. My cousin had no share in the performance except singing
agreeably, wherein she was joined by some of the ladies, and where the music could bear it,
by ten of the young girls, with two or three others whom we had not seen, and whose voices
and manner were equally pleasing. They performed several of the finest pieces of the Messiah
and Judas Maccabeus, with exquisite taste, and the most exact time. There was a sufficient
number of performers to give the choruses all their pomp and fullness, and the songs were sung
in a manner so touching and pathetic, as could be equalled by none whose hearts were not as
much affected by the words as their senses were by the music. The sight of so many little innocents
joining in the most sublime harmony made me almost think myself already amongst the heavenly
choir, and it was a great mortification to me to be brought back to this sensual world by so
gross an attraction as a call to supper, which put an end to our concert, and carried us to
another room, where we found a repast more elegant than expensive.

The evening certainly is the most social part of the day, without any of those excesses which
so often turn it into senseless revelry. The conversation after supper was particularly animated,
and left us still more charmed with the society into which chance had introduced us; the sprightliness
of their wit, the justness of their reflections, the dignity which accompanied their vivacity,
plainly evinced with how much greater strength the mind can exert itself in a regular and rational
way of life, than in a course of dissipation. At this house every change came too soon, time
seemed to wear a double portion of wings, eleven o'clock struck, and the ladies ordered a servant
to shew us our rooms, themselves retiring to theirs.

It was impossible for Lamont and I to part till we had spent an hour in talking over this amiable
family, with whom he could not help being much delighted, though he observed they were very
deficient in the bon ton, there was too much solidity in all they said, they would trifle with
trifles indeed, but had not the art of treating more weighty subjects with the same lightness,
which gave them an air of rusticity; and he did not doubt, but on a more intimate acquaintance
we should find their manners much rusticated, and their heads filled with antiquated notions,
by having lived so long out of the great world.

I rose the next morning very early, desirous to make the day, which I purposed for the last
of my abode in this mansion, as long as I could. I went directly into the garden, which, by
what I saw from the house, was extremely pretty. As I passed by the windows of the saloon,
I perceived the ladies and their little pupils were earlier risers than myself, for they were
all at their various employments. I first went into the gayest flower garden I ever beheld.
The rainbow exhibits not half the variety of tints, and they are so artfully mingled, and ranged
to make such a harmony of colours, as taught me how much the most beautiful objects may be
improved by a judicious disposition of them. Beyond these beds of flowers rises a shrubbery,
where every thing sweet and pleasing is collected. As these ladies have no taste but what is
directed by good sense, nothing found a place here from being only uncommon, for they think
few things are very rare but because they are little desirable; and indeed it is plain they
are free from that littleness of mind, which makes people value a thing the more for its being
possessed by no one but themselves. Behind the shrubbery is a little wood, which affords a
gloom, rendered more agreeable by its contrast with the dazzling beauty of that part of the
garden that leads to it. In the high pale which encloses this wood I observed a little door,
curiosity induced me to pass through it; I found it opened on a row of the neatest cottages
I ever saw, which the wood had concealed from my view. They were new and uniform, and therefore
I imagined all dedicated to the same purpose. Seeing a very old woman spinning at one of the
doors, I accosted her, by admiring the neatness of her habitation.

'Ay, indeed,' said she, 'it is a most comfortable place, God bless the good ladies! I and my
neighbours are as happy as princesses, we have every thing we want and wish, and who can say
more?' 'Very few so much,' answered I, 'but pray what share have the ladies in procuring the
happiness you seem so sensible of?' 'Why Sir,' continued the old woman, 'it is all owing to
them. I was almost starved when they put me into this house, and no shame of mine, for so were
my neighbours too; perhaps we were not so painstaking as we might have been; but that was not
our fault, you know, as we had not things to work with, nor any body to set us to work, poor
folks cannot know every thing as these good ladies do; we were half dead for want of victuals,
and then people have not courage to set about any thing. Nay, all the parish were so when they
came into it, young and old, there was not much to choose, few of us had rags to cover us,
or a morsel of bread to eat except the two Squires; they indeed grew rich, because they had
our work, and paid us not enough to keep life and soul together, they live about a mile off,
so perhaps they did not know how poor we were, I must say that for them; the ladies tell me
I ought not to speak against them, for every one has faults, only we see other people's, and
are blind to our own; and certainly it is true enough, for they are very wise ladies as well
as good, and must know such things.'

As my new acquaintance seemed as loquacious as her age promised, I hoped for full satisfaction,
and asked her how she and her neighbours employed themselves.

'Not all alike,' replied the good woman, 'I will tell you all about it There are twelve of
us that live here. We have every one a house of two rooms, as you may see, beside other conveniences,
and each a little garden, but though we are separate, we agree as well, perhaps better, than
if we lived together, and all help one another. Now, there is neighbour Susan, and neighbour
Rachel; Susan is lame, so she spins clothes for Rachel; and Rachel cleans Susan's house, and
does such things for her as she cannot do for herself. The ladies settled all these matters
at first, and told us, that as they, to please God, assisted us, we must in order to please
him serve others; and that to make us happy they would put us in a way, poor as we are, to
do good to many. Thus neighbour Jane who, poor woman, is almost stone deaf, they thought would
have a melancholy life if she was to be always spinning and knitting, seeing other people around
her talking, and not be able to hear a word they said, so the ladies busy her in making broths
and caudles and such things, for all the sick poor in this and the next parish, and two of
us are fixed upon to carry what, they have made to those that want them; to visit them often,
and spend more or less time with them every day according as they have, or have not relations
to take care of them; for though the ladies always hire nurses for those who are very ill,
yet they will not trust quite to them, but make us overlook them, so that in a sickly time
we shall be all day going from one to another.'

'But,' said I, 'there are I perceive many children amongst you, how happens that? Your ages
shew they are not your own.'

'Oh! as for that,' replied my intelligencer, 'I will tell you how that is. You must know these
good ladies, heaven preserve them! take every child after the fifth of every poor person, as
soon as it can walk, till when they pay the mother for nursing it; these children they send
to us to keep out of harm, and as soon as they can hold a knitting-needle to teach them to
knit, and to spin, as much as they can be taught before they are four or five years old, when
they are removed into one of the schools. They are pretty company for us, and make us mothers
again, as it were, in our old age; then the children's relations are all so fond of us for
our care of them, that it makes us a power of friends, which you know is very pleasant, though
we want nothing from them but their good wills.'

Here I interrupted her by observing, that it must take up a great deal of time, and stop their
work, consequently lessen their profits.

'There is nothing in that,' continued the good woman, 'the ladies' steward sends us in all
we want in the way of meat, drink and firing; and our spinning we carry to the ladies; they
employ a poor old weaver, who before they came broke for want of work, to weave it for us,
and when there is not enough they put more to it, so we are sure to have our clothing; if we
are not idle that is all they desire, except that we should be cleanly too. There never passes
a day that one or other of the ladies does not come and look all over our houses, which they
tell us, and certainly with truth, for it is a great deal of trouble to them, is all for our
good, for that we cannot be healthy if we are not clean and neat. Then every Saint's day, and
every Sunday after church, we all go down to the hall, and the ladies read prayers, and a sermon
to us, and their own family; nor do they ever come here without giving us some good advice.
We used to quarrel, to be sure, sometimes when we first came to these houses, but the ladies
condescended to make it up amongst us, and shewed us so kindly how much it was our duty to
agree together, and to forgive everybody their faults, or else we could not hope to be forgiven
by God, against whom we so often sinned, that now we love one another like sisters, or indeed
better, for I often see such quarrel. Beside, they have taught us that we are generally in
fault ourselves; and we find now that we take care not to be perverse, our neighbours are seldom
in the wrong, and when they are, we bear with it in hopes they will bear with us when we are
as much to blame, which we may be sure enough will happen, let us try ever so much to the contrary.
Then the ladies seem so pleased when we do any kindness to one another, as to be sure is a
great encouragement; and if any of us are sick they are so careful and so good, that it would
be a shame if we did not do all we can for one another, who have been always neighbours and
acquaintance, when such great ladies, who never knew us, as I may say, but to make us happy,
and have no reason to take care of us but that we are poor, are so kind and condescending to us.'

I was so pleased with the good effect which the charity of her benefactors had on the mind,
as well as the situation, of this old woman, whose neighbours by her own account were equally
benefited by the blessings they received, that I should have stayed longer with her, if a bell
had not rung at Millenium Hall, which she informed me was a summons to breakfast. I obeyed
its call, and after thanking her for her conversation, returned with a heart warmed and enlarged,
to the amiable society. My mind was so filled with exalted reflections on their virtues that
I was less attentive to the charms of inanimate nature than when I first passed through the
gardens.

After breakfast the ladies proposed a walk, and as they had seen the course I took when I first
went out, they led us a contrary way, lest, they said, I should be tired with the repetition
of the same scene. I told them with, great truth, that what I had beheld could never weary,
for virtue is a subject we must ever contemplate with fresh delight, and as such examples could
not fail of improving every witness of them, the pleasure of reflection would increase, as
one daily grew more capable of enjoying it, by cultivating kindred sensations. By some more
explicit hints they found out to what I alluded, and thereby knew where I had been, but turning
the conversation to present objects, they conducted us to a very fine wood which is laid out
with so much taste that Lamont observed the artist's hand was never more distinguishable, and
perceived in various spots the direction of the person at present most famous for that sort
of improvement.

