NO. 61.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28. 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{505}

CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                   Page
    Illustrations of Scottish Ballads, by Richard John King   505
    The Red Hand--The Holt Family--Vincent Family             506
    Vondel's Lucifer, by Janus Dousa                          507
    A Myth of Midridge                                        509
    Folk Lore Miscellanies:--St. Thomas's Day--Black Doll
      at Old Store-shops--Snake Charming--Mice as a
      Medicine--"Many Nits, many Pits"--Swans hatched
      during Thunder--Snakes--Pixies or Piskies--Straw
      Necklaces--Breaking Judas' Bones                        509
        Local Rhymes and Proverbs of Devonshire               511
        A Christmas Carol                                     513
        A Note for little Boys                                513
        Similarity of Traditions                              513
        Pixey Legends                                         514
        The Pool of the Black Hound                           515
        Popular Rhymes                                        515
    Minor Notes:--"Passilodion" and "Berafrynde"--
      Inscription on an Alms-dish--The Use of the French
      Word "savez"--Job's Luck--The Assassination of
      Mountfort in For folk Street, Strand--The Oldenburgh
      Horn--Curious Custom--Kite--Epitaph on John
      Randal--Playing Cards                                   515

  QUERIES:--
    Dragons: their Origin                                     517
    John Sanderson, or the Cushion Dance; and Bab at the
      Bowster                                                 517
    Did Bunyan know Hobbes? by J.H. Friswell                  518
    Minor Queries:--Boiling to Death--Meaning of
      "Mocker"--"Away, let nought to love displeasing"
      --Baron Münchausen--"Sing Tantararara Rogues
      all," &c.--Meaning of "Cauking"                         519

  REPLIES:--
    The Wise Men of Gotham, by J.B. Colman                    520
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Master John Shorne--
      Antiquity of Smoking--Meaning of the Word
      "Thwaites"--Thomas Rogers of Horninger--Earl
      of Roscommon--Parse--The Meaning of "Version"
      --First Paper-mill in England--"Torn by Horses"
      --Vineyards--Cardinal--Weights for Weighing
      Coins--Umbrella--Croziers and Pastoral Staves           520

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                    523
    Notices to Correspondents                                 524
    Advertisements                                            524

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF SCOTTISH BALLADS.

In the ballad of "Annan Water" (Border Minstrelsy, vol. iii.) is the following verse:--

    "O he has pour'd aff his dapperpy coat,
       The silver buttons glanced bonny;
     The waistcoat bursted aff his breast,
       He was sae full of melancholy."

A very unexpected effect of sorrow, but one that does not seem to be unprecedented. "A plague
of sighing and grief," says Falstaff. "It blows a man up like a bladder."

A remarkable illustration of Falstaff's assertion, and of the Scottish ballad, is to be found
in this Saga of Egil Skallagrimson. Bodvar, the son of Egil, was wrecked on the coast of Iceland.
His body was thrown up by the waves near Einarsness, where Egil found it, and buried it in
the tomb of his father Skallagrim. The Saga continues thus:--

    "After that, Egil rode home to Borgar; and when he came there, he
    went straightway into the locked chamber where he was wont to sleep;
    and there he laid him down, and shot forth the bolt. No man dared
    speak a word to him. And thus it is said that Egil was clad when he
    laid Bodvar in the tomb. His hose were bound fast about his legs,
    and he had on a red linen kirtle, narrow above, and tied with
    strings at the sides. And men say that his body swelled so greatly
    that his kirtle burst from off him, and so did his hose."--P. 602.

It is well known that the subjects of many ballads are common to Scotland, and to the countries
of Northern Europe. Thus, the fine old "Douglas Tragedy," the scene of which is pointed out
at Blackhouse Tower, on the Yarrow, is equally localised in Denmark:

    "Seven large stones," says Sir Walter, "erected upon the
    neighbouring heights of Blackhouse, are shown as marking the spot
    where the seven brethren were slain; and the Douglas Burn is avowed
    to have been the stream at which the lovers stopped to drink; so
    minute is tradition in ascertaining, the scene of a tragical tale,
    which, considering, the rude state of former times, had probably
    foundation in some real event."

The corresponding Danish ballad, however, that of "Ribolt and Guldborg," which has been translated
by Mr. Jamieson, is not less minute in pointing out the scene of action. The origin of ballads,
which are thus widely spread, must probably be sought in very high antiquity; and we cannot
wonder if we find them undergoing considerable {506} change in the passage from one country
to another. At least the "Douglas Tragedy" betrays one very singular mark of having lost something
of the original.

In "Ribolt and Guldborg," when the lady's brothers have all but overtaken the fugitives, the
knight addresses her thus:

    "Light down, Guldborg, my lady dear,
     And hald our steeds lay the renyes here.
     And e'en sae be that ye see me fa'
     Be sure that ye never upon me ca';
     And e'en sae be that ye see me bleed,
     Be sure that ye name na' me till dead."

Ribolt kills her father and her two eldest brothers, and then Guldborg can no longer restrain
herself:

    "Hald, hald, my Ribolt, dearest mine,
     Now belt thy brand, for its 'mair nor time.
     My youngest brother ye spare, O spare,
     To my mither the dowie news to bear."

But she has broken her lover's mysterious caution, and he is mortally wounded in consequence:

    "When Ribolt's name she named that stound,
    'Twas then that he gat his deadly wound."

In the Scottish ballad, no such caution is given; nor is the lady's calling on her lover's
name at all alluded to as being the cause of his death. It is so, however, as in the Danish
version:

    "She held his steed in her milk-white hand,
       And never shed one tear,
     Until that she saw her seven brethren fa',
       And her father hard fighting, who loved her so dear.

    "O hold your hand, Lord William, she said,
       For your strokes they are wondrous sair;
     True lovers I can get many a ane,
       But a father I can never get mair."

There is no note in the Kæmpe Viser, says Mr. Jamieson, on this subject; nor does he attempt
to explain it himself. It has, however, a clear reference to a very curious Northern superstition.

Thorkelin, in the essay on the Berserkir, appended to his edition of the Kristni-Saga, tells
us that an old name of the Berserk frenzy was hamremmi, i.e., strength acquired from another
or strange body, because it was anciently believed that the persons who were liable to this
frenzy were mysteriously endowed, during its accesses, with a strange body of unearthly strength.
If, however, the Berserk was called on by his own name, he lost his mysterious form, and his
ordinary strength alone remained. Thus it happens in the Svarfdæla Saga:

    "Gris called aloud to Klanfi, and said, 'Klanfi, Klanfi! keep a fair
    measure,' and instantly the strength which Klanfi had got in his
    rage, failed him; so that now he could not even lift the beam with
    which he had been fighting."

It is clear, therefore, continues Thorkelin, that the state of men labouring under the Berserk
frenzy was held by some, at least, to resemble that of those, who, whilst their own body lay
at home apparently dead or asleep, wandered under other forms into distant places and countries.
Such wanderings were called hamfarir by the old northmen; and were held to be only capable
of performance by those who had attained the very utmost skill in magic.

RICHARD JOHN KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RED HAND.--THE HOLT FAMILY. (Vol. ii., pp. 248. 451.)

Your correspondent ESTE, in allusion to the arms of the Holt family, in a window of the church
of Aston-juxta-Birmingham, refers to the tradition that one of the family "murdered his cook,
and was afterwards compelled to adopt the red hand in his arms." Este is perfectly correct
in his concise but comprehensive particulars. That which, by the illiterate, is termed "the
bloody hand," and by them reputed as an abatement of honour, is nothing more than the "Ulster
badge" of dignity. The tradition adds, that Sir Thomas Holt murdered the cook in a cellar,
at the old family mansion, by "running him through with a spit," and afterwards buried him
beneath the spot where the tragedy was enacted. I merely revert to the subject, because, within
the last three months, the ancient family residence, where the murder is said to have been
committed, has been levelled with the ground; and among persons who from their position in
society might be supposed to be better informed, considerable anxiety has been expressed to
ascertain whether any portion of the skeleton of the murdered cook has been discovered beneath
the flooring of the cellar, which tradition, fomented by illiterate gossip, pointed out as
the place of his interment. Your correspondents would confer a heraldic benefit if they would
point out other instances--which I believe to exist--where family reputation has been damaged
by similar ignorance in heraldic interpretation.

The ancient family residence to which I have referred was situated at Duddeston, a hamlet adjoining
Birmingham. Here the Holts resided until May, 1631, when Sir Thomas took up his abode at Ashton
Hall, a noble structure in the Elizabethan style of architecture, which, according to a contemporary
inscription, was commenced in April, 1618, and completed in 1635. Sir Thomas was a decided
royalist, and maintained his allegiance to his sovereign, although the men of Birmingham were
notorious for their disaffection, and the neighbouring garrison of Edgbaston was occupied by
Parliamentarian troops. When Charles I., of glorious or unhappy memory, was on his way from
Shrewsbury to the important battle of Edgehill, {507} on the confines of Warwickshire, he remained
with Sir Thomas, as his guest, from the 15th to the 17th of October (vide Mauley's Iter Carolinum,
Gutch's Collectanea, vol. ii. p. 425.); and a closet is still pointed out to the visitor where
he is said to have been concealed. A neighbouring eminence is to the present day called "King's
Standing," from the fact of the unhappy monarch having stood thereon whilst addressing his
troops. By his acts of loyalty, Sir Thomas Holt acquired the hostility of his rebellious neighbours;
and accordingly we learn that on the 18th of December, 1643, he had recourse to Colonel Leveson,
who "put forty muskettiers into the house" to avert impending dangers; but eight days afterwards,
on the 26th of December, "the rebels, 1,200 strong, assaulted it, and the day following tooke
it, kil'd 12, and ye rest made prisoners, though w'th losse of 60 of themselves." (Vide Dugdale's
Diary, edited by Hamper, 4to. p. 57.) The grand staircase, deservedly so entitled, bears evident
marks of the injury occasioned at this period, and an offending cannon-ball is still preserved.

Edward, the son and heir of Sir Thomas, died at Oxford, on the 28th August, 1643, and was buried
in Christ Church. He was an ardent supporter of the king. The old baronet was selected as ambassador
to Spain by Charles I., but was excused on account of his infirmities. He died A.D. 1654, in
the eighty-third year of his age. His excellence and benevolence of character would afford
presumptive evidence of the falsehood of the tradition, if it were not totally exploded by
the absurdity of the hypothesis upon which it is grounded. Sir Thomas was succeeded in the
baronetcy by his grandson, Robert, who in compliance with his will built an almshouse or hospital
for five men and five women. It is unnecessary to pursue the family further, excepting to state
that nearly at the close of the last century the entail was cut off: the family is now unknown
in the neighbourhood, excepting in its collateral branches, and the hall has passed into the
possession of strangers. Its last occupant was James Watt, Esq., son of the eminent mechanical
philosopher. He died about two years ago, and the venerable mansion remains tenantless.

With reference to the ancient family residence of the Holts, at Duddeston, it will be sufficient
to observe, that in the middle of the last century the house and grounds were converted into
a tavern and pleasure gardens, under the metropolitan title of Vauxhall: and for a century
they continued to afford healthful recreation and scenic amusement to the busy inhabitants
of Birmingham. The amazing increase in the size and population of the town has at length demanded
this interesting site for building purposes. Within the last three months the house and gardens
have been entirely dismantled, a range of building has already been erected, and old Vauxhall
is now numbered amongst the things that were.

J. GOODWIN.

Birmingham.

"Bloody Hands at Stoke d'Abernon, Surrey.--The legends of Sir Richard
Baker (Vol. ii., pp. 67. They had not gone much further before the miller of a mill
    near at hand (and which is still standing) passed them, and made
    some trifling remark. As soon as he had got by, the younger brother
    jokingly reminded the elder of his oath, whereupon the latter
    immediately fired at the miller, who fell dead upon the spot. To commemorate his rash act and his untimely death,
    this 'bloody hand' was placed on his monument."

So runs the story as far as I remember; the date I cannot recollect. The legend was told me
after I had left the church, and I had paid no particular attention to the monument; but I
thought at the time that the hand might be only the Ulster badge. I shall be obliged to any
of your readers who will throw further light upon this matter. A pilgrimage to Stoke d'Abernon,
whose church contains the earliest known brass in England, would not be uninteresting even
at this season of the year.

ARUN.

       *       *       *       *       *

VONDEL'S LUCIFER.

I have to complain of injustice done by a correspondent of "NOTES AND QUERIES," to the Dutch
poet Vondel. To the question mooted by F. (Vol. i. p. 142.), whether my countryman's Lucifer
has ever been translated into English, Hermes answers by a passage taken from the Foreign Quarterly
Review for April, 1829; and subjoins a list of the dramatis personæ "given from the original
Dutch before him. The tragedy itself is condensed by your correspondent into a simple "&c."
Now, if HERMES, instead of referring to a stale review for a comparison between Vondel's tragedy
and the Paradise Lost, without showing by any proof that Milton's justly renowned epic {508}
is indeed superior to this, one of the Dutch poet's masterpiece--if HERMES, being, as I conclude
from his own words, conversant with the language of our Shakspeare, had taken pains to read
Lucifer, he would not have repeated a statement unfavourable to Vondel's poetical genius. I,
for my part, will not hazard a judgment on poems so different and yet so alike, I will not
sneer at Milton's demon-gods of Olympus, nor laugh at "their artillery discharged in the daylight
of heaven;" for such instances of bad taste are to be considered as clouds setting off the
glories of the whole; but this I will say, that Vondel wrote his Lucifer in 1654, the sixty-seventh
of his life, while Milton's Paradise Lost was composed four years later. The honour of precedence,
in time, at least, belongs to my countryman. All the odds were against the British poet's competitor,
if one who wrote before him may be so called; for, while Milton enjoyed every privilege of
a sound classical education, Vondel had still to begin a course of study when more than twenty-six
years of age; and, while the Dutch poet told the price of homely stockings to prosaic burghers,
the writer of Paradise Lost was speaking the language of Torquato Tasso in the country enraptured
by the first sight of la divina comedia.

I am no friend of polemical writing, and I believe the less we see of it in your friendly periodical,
the better it is; but still I must protest against such copying of partially-written judgments,
when good information can be got. I say not by stretching out a hand, for the book was already
opened by your correspondent--but alone by using one's eyes and turning over a leaf or two.
Else, why did HERMES learn the Dutch language? I ask your subscribers if the following verses
are weak, and if they would not have done honour to the English Vondel?

                 CHORUS OF ANGELS.

                  (From Lucifer.)

    "Who sits above heaven's heights sublime,
       Yet fills the grave's profoundest place,
     Beyond eternity, or time,
       Or the vast round of viewless space:
     Who on Himself alone depends--
       Immortal--glorious--but unseen--
     And in his mighty being blends
       What rolls around or flows within.
     Of all we know not--all we know--
       Prime source and origin--a sea,
     Whose waters pour'd on earth below
       Wake blessing's brightest radiancy.
    'Tis power, love, wisdom, first exalted
       And waken'd from oblivion's birth;
     Yon starry arch--yon palace, vaulted--
       Yon heaven of heavens, to smile on earth.
     From his resplendent majesty
       We shade us 'neath our sheltering wings,
     While awe-inspired, and tremblingly
       We praise the glorious King of Kings,
     With sight and sense confused and dim;
       O name--describe the Lord of Lords,
     The seraph's praise shall hallow Him;--
       Or is the theme too vast for words?"

                     RESPONSE.

    "'Tis God! who pours the living glow
        Of light, creation's fountain-head:
      Forgive the praise--too mean and low--
        Or from the living or the dead.
      No tongue thy peerless name hath spoken,
        No space can hold that awful name;
      The aspiring spirit's wing is broken;--
        Thou wilt be, wert, and art the same!
      Language is dumb. Imagination,
        Knowledge, and science, helpless fall;
      They are irreverent profanation,
        And thou, O God! art all in all.
      How vain on such a thought to dwell!
        Who knows Thee--Thee the All-unknown?
      Can angels be thy oracle,
        Who art--who art Thyself alone?
      None, none can trace Thy course sublime,
        For none can catch a ray from Thee,
      The splendour and the source of time--
        The Eternal of eternity.
      Thy light of light outpour'd conveys
        Salvation in its flight elysian,
      Brighter than e'en Thy mercy's rays;
        But vainly would our feeble vision
      Aspire to Thee. From day to day
        Age steals on us, but meets thee never;
      Thy power is life's support and stay--
        We praise thee, sing thee, Lord! for ever."

                        CHORUS.

    "Holy, holy, holy! Praise--
       Praise be His in every land;
     Safety in His presence stays;
       Sacred is His high command!"

Dr. Bowring's version,--though a good one, if the difficulty be considered of giving back a
piece of poetry, whose every word is a poem in itself, and by whose rhyme and accentuation
a feeling of indescribable awe is instilled into the most fastidious reader's mind,--Dr. Bowring's
version is but a feeble reverberation of the holy fire pervading our Dutch poet's anthem. But
still there rests enough in his copy to give one a high idea of the original. I borrow the
same Englishman's words when I add:--

    "The criticism that instructs, even though it instructs severely, is
    most salutary and most valuable. It is of the criticism that
    insults, and while it insults, informs not, that we have a right to
    complain."--Batavian Anthology, p. 6.

JANUS DOUSA.

Manpadt House.

       *       *       *       *       *{509}

A MYTH OF MIDRIDGE;

    Or, A Story anent a witless Wight's Adventures with the Midridge
    Fairies in the Bishoprick of Durham; now more than two Centuries
    ago.

Talking about fairies the other day to a nearly Octogenarian female neighbour, I asked, had
she ever seen one in her youthful days. Her answer was in the negative; "but," quoth she, "I've
heard my grandmother tell a story, that Midridge (near Auckland) was a great place for fairies
when she was a child, and for many long years after that." A rather lofty hill, only a short
distance from the village, was their chief place of resort, and around it they used to dance,
not by dozens, but by hundreds, when the gloaming began to show itself of the summer nights.
Occasionally a villager used to visit the scene of their gambols in order to catch if it were
but a passing glance of the tiny folks, dressed in their vestments of green, as delicate as
the thread of the gossamer: for well knew the lass so favoured, that ere the current year had
disappeared, she would have become the happy wife of the object of her only love; and also,
as well ken'd the lucky lad that he too would get a weel tochered lassie, long afore his brow
became wrinkled with age, or the snow-white blossoms had begun to bud forth upon his pate.
Woe to those, however, who dared to come by twos or by threes, with inquisitive and curious
eye, within the bounds of their domain; for if caught, or only the eye of a fairy fell upon
them, ill was sure to betide them through life. Still more awful, however, was the result if
any were so rash as to address them, either in plain prose or rustic rhyme. The last instance
of their being spoken to, is thus still handed down by tradition:--''Twas on a beautifully
clear evening in the month of August, when the last sheaf had crowned the last stack in their
master's hagyard, and after calling the "harvest home," the daytale-men and household servants
were enjoying themselves over massive pewter quarts foaming over with strong beer, that the
subject of the evening's conversation at last turned upon the fairies of the neighbouring hill,
and each related his oft-told tale which he had learned by rote from the lips of some parish
grandame. At last the senior of the mirthful party proposed to a youthful mate of his, who
had dared to doubt even the existence of such creatures, that he durst not go to the hill,
mounted on his master's best palfrey, and call aloud, at the full extent of his voice, the
following rhymes:

            "Rise little Lads,
             Wi' your iron gads,
    And set the Lad o' Midridge hame."

