THE SQUADRON SAILS. It was from the first determined that George Anson, Esquire, then captain
of the "Centurion", should be employed as commander-in-chief of an expedition of this kind.
For though he knew by the musters that his squadron wanted 300 seamen of their complement,
yet as Sir Charles Wager* informed him that an order from the Board of Admiralty was despatched
to Sir John Norris to spare him the numbers which he wanted, he doubted not of his complying
therewith.

(*Note. Sir Charles Wager was at that time First Lord of the Admiralty in Walpole's Ministry.)

But the Commodore's mortification did not end here.

(*Note. A local name for Chelsea Hospital, a home for old and disabled soldiers. It was founded
by Charles II and the buildings were designed by Wren.)

(**Note. The squadron did not reach the neighbourhood of Cape Horn until March when the autumn
of the Southern Hemisphere had begun and with it the stormy season.)

To supply the place of the 240 invalids which had deserted there were ordered on board 210
marines detached from different regiments. These were raw and undisciplined men, for they were
just raised, and had scarcely anything more of the soldier than their regimentals, none of
them having been so far trained as to be permitted to fire. The last detachment of these marines
came on board the 8th of August, and on the 10th the squadron sailed from Spithead to St. Helens,
there to wait for a wind to proceed on the expedition.

But the diminishing the strength of the squadron was not the greatest inconvenience which attended
these alterations, for the contests, representations, and difficulties which they continually
produced occasioned a delay and waste of time which in its consequences was the source of all
the disasters to which this enterprise was afterwards exposed.

(*Note. The South Sea Company was formed in 1711 on the model of the East India Company to
trade in the Pacific; and on the conclusion of the Treaty of Utrecht it was given the monopoly
of the English trade with the Spanish coasts of America. The grant of certain privileges by
Government led to wild speculation in its shares which gave rise to the famous South Sea Bubble
of 1720.)

On the 18th of September, 1740, the squadron weighed from St. Helens with a contrary wind.
It consisted of five men-of-war, a sloop-of-war, and two victualling ships. Besides the complement
of men borne by the above-mentioned ships as their crews, there were embarked on board the
squadron about 470 invalids and marines, under the denomination of land forces, which were
commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Cracherode.

The winds were so contrary that we had the mortification to be forty days in our passage from
St. Helens to the island of Madeira, though it is known to be often done in ten or twelve.
However, at last, on Monday, October the 25th, at five in the morning, we, to our great joy,
made the land, and in the afternoon came to an anchor in Madeira Road. The Governor assured
the Commodore, upon his honour, that none upon the island had either given them intelligence
or had in any sort communicated with them, but that he believed them to be either French or
Spanish, but was rather inclined to think them Spanish. On this intelligence Mr. Anson sent
an officer in a clean sloop eight leagues to the westward to reconnoitre them, and, if possible,
to discover what they were.

(*Note. Madeira then as now belonged to Portugal--a neutral power at that time usually jealous
of Spain.)

CHAPTER 2. SPANISH PREPARATIONS--FATE OF PIZARRO'S SQUADRON. Pizarro, notwithstanding his superior
force, had his reasons (and as some say, his orders likewise) for avoiding our squadron anywhere
short of the South Seas.

(*Note. The calendar as regulated by Julius Caesar in 46 BC assumed the length of the solar
year to be exactly 365 1/2 days, whereas it is eleven minutes and a few with seconds less.
By 1582 the error had become considerable for the calendar was ten days behind the sun. Pope
Gregory XIII therefore ordained that ten days in that year should be dropped and October 5th
reckoned as October 15th. In order to avoid error in the future it was settled that three of
the leap years that occur in 400 years should be considered common years. So 1600 was and 2000
will be a leap year but 1700, 1800 and 1900 were not. The New Style (NS.) was adopted by Catholic
countries. Protestant countries as a rule rejected it and adhered to the old Style (OS.). The
result was a considerable confusion in dates as will be plain in the course of the book. The
New Style was adopted by England in 1751, when eleven days had to be omitted, and September
3rd was reckoned as September 14th. Ignorant people thought that they were defrauded of eleven
days wages. "Give us back our eleven days" became a popular cry against the Minister of the
time. Russia and other countries under the Greek Church still adhere to the old Style and are
now thirteen days behind.)

(**Note. Anson's squadron was then at St. Catherine's in Brazil. See below, Chapter 3.)

(***Note. The Spanish squadron when it sailed from Maldonado consisted of the following ships:
"Asia", 66 guns, flag ship; "Guipuscoa", 74; "Hermiona", 54; "Esperanza", 50; "St. Estevan",
40. The Asia was the only ship that ever returned to Spain.)

Pizarro with his squadron having, towards the latter end of February, run the length of Cape
Horn, he then stood to the westward in order to double it; but in the night of the last day
of February, OS. while, with this view, they were turned to windward the Guipuscoa, the Hermiona,
and the Esperanza were separated from the Admiral. On the 6th of March following the Guipuscoa
was separated from the other two, and on the 7th (being the day after we had passed straits
le Maire) there came on a most furious storm at north-west, which, in despite of all their
efforts, drove the whole squadron to the eastward, and obliged them, after several fruitless
attempts, to bear away for the River of Plate, where Pizarro in the Asia arrived about the
middle of May and a few days after him the Esperanza and the St. Estevan. The Hermiona was
supposed to founder at sea for she was never heard of more and the Guipuscoa was run ashore
and sunk on the coast of Brazil. The calamities of all kinds which this squadron underwentin
this unsuccessful navigation can only be paralleled by what we ourselves experienced in the
same climate when buffeted by the same storms.

(*Note. Scurvy.)

FAMINE.

By the complicated distress of fatigue, sickness, and hunger, the three ships which escaped
lost the greatest part of their men. The Asia, their Admiral's ship, arrived at Monte Video
in the River of Plate with half her crew only; the St. Estevan had lost in like manner half
her hands when she anchored in the Bay of Barragan. The Esperanza, a 50-gun ship, was still
more unfortunate, for of 450 hands which she brought from Spain only 55 remained alive.

The Asia having considerably suffered in this second unfortunate expedition the Esperanza which
had been left behind at Monte Video, was ordered to be refitted, the command of her being given
to Mindinuetta, who was captain of the Guipuscoa when she was lost. He, in the November of
the succeeding year that is, in November, 1742, sailed from the River of Plate for the South
Seas and arrived safe on the coast of Chile where his Commodore, Pizarro, passing overland
from Buenos Ayres met him. There were great animosities and contests between these two gentlemen
at their meeting occasioned principally by the claim of Pizarro to command the Esperanza, which
Mindinuetta had brought round, for Mindinuetta refused to deliver her up to him, insisting
that as he came into the South Seas alone, and under no superior, it was not now in the power
of Pizarro to resume that authority which he had once parted with. However the President of
Chile interposing, and declaring for Pizarro, Mindinuetta after a long and obstinate struggle,
was obliged to submit.

But Pizarro had not yet completed the series of his adventures, for when he and Mindinuetta
came back by land from Chile to Buenos Ayres in the year 1745 they found at Monte Video the
Asia, which near three years before they had left there. Having agreed on the measures necessary
to be taken, they first furnished themselves with Dutch knives sharp at the point, which, being
the common knives used in the ship, they found no difficulty in procuring.

SPANISH CRUELTY. This usage undoubtedly heightened his thirst for revenge, and made him eager
and impatient till the means of executing it were in his power, so that within a day or two
after this incident he and his followers opened their desperate resolves in the ensuing manner.

(*Note. It is called a bola.)

A DARING ADVENTURE. Orellana and his companions under cover of the night, having prepared their
weapons and thrown off their trousers and the more cumbrous part of their dress, came altogether
on the quarter-deck and drew towards the door of the great cabin. Many of the officers, in
the beginning of the tumult, pushed into the great cabin, where they put out the lights and
barricaded the door. There were indeed cutlasses in the chest, but they were hid by the firearms
being laid over them. This was a sensible disappointment to them, and by this time Pizarro
and his companions in the great cabin were capable of conversing aloud, through the cabin windows
and port-holes, with those in the gun-room and between decks; and from hence they learned that
the English (whom they principally suspected) were all safe below, and had not intermeddled
in this mutiny; and by other particulars they at last discovered that none were concerned in
it but Orellana and his people. With this view Pizarro got together what arms were in the cabin,
and distributed them to those who were with him; but there were no other firearms to be met
with but pistols, and for these they had neither powder nor ball. Thus was this insurrection
quelled, and the possession of the quarter-deck regained, after it had been full two hours
in the power of this great and daring chief and his gallant and unhappy countrymen.

Pizarro, having escaped this imminent peril, steered for Europe, and arrived safe on the coast
of Galicia* in the beginning of the year 1746, after having been absent between four and five
years.

(*Note. Galicia is the north-western province of Spain.)

CHAPTER 3. FROM MADEIRA TO ST. CATHERINE'S--UNHEALTHINESS OF THE SQUADRON.

On the 3rd of November we weighed from Madeira.

On the 20th the captains of the squadron represented to the Commodore that their ships' companies
were very sickly, and that it was their own opinion as well as their surgeons' that it would
tend to the preservation of the men to let in more air between decks; but that their ships
were so deep they could not possibly open their lower ports.

We crossed the Equinoctial, with a fine fresh gale at south-east on Friday, the 28th of November,
at four in the morning, being then in the longitude of 27 degrees 59 minutes west from London.

On the 12th of December we spoke with a Portuguese brigantine from Rio de Janeiro, who informed
us that we were sixty-four leagues from Cape St. Thomas, and forty leagues from Cape Frio.

DISEASE. When we departed from St. Helens, we were in so good a condition that we lost but
two men on board the Centurion in our long passage to Madeira. But in this present run between
Madeira and St. Catherine's we had been very sickly, so that many died, and great numbers were
confined to their hammocks, both in our own ship and in the rest of the squadron; and several
of these past all hopes of recovery.

We moored at the island of St. Catherine's on Sunday, the 21st of December, the whole squadron
being sickly and in great want of refreshments: both which inconveniences we hoped to have
soon removed at this settlement, celebrated by former navigators for its healthiness and its
provisions, and for the freedom, indulgence, and friendly assistance there given to the ships
of all European nations in amity with the Crown of Portugal.

Our first care, after having moored our ships, was to send our sick men on shore. We sent about
eighty sick from the Centurion, and the other ships I believe, sent nearly as many in proportion
to the number of their hands. As soon as we had performed this necessary duty, we scraped our
decks, and gave our ship a thorough cleansing; then smoked it between decks, and after all
washed every part well with vinegar. Our next employment was wooding and watering our squadron,
caulking our ships' sides and decks, overhauling our rigging, and securing our masts against
the tempestuous weather we were, in all probability, to meet with in our passage round Cape
Horn in so advanced and inconvenient a season. These precautions being complied with, and each
ship having taken in as much wood and water as there was room for, the whole squadron was ready
for the sea; on which the tents on shore were struck, and all the sick were received on board.
And here we had a melancholy proof how much the healthiness of this place had been overrated
by former writers, for we found that though the Centurion alone had buried no less than twenty-eight
men since our arrival, yet the number of our sick was in the same interval increased from eighty
to ninety-six.

THE LAST AMICABLE PORT. With these views their new Commodore was to continue in those seas
as long as his provisions lasted, or as long as they were recruited by what he should take
from the enemy, reserving only a sufficient quantity to carry him and the ships under his command
to Macao at the entrance of the River Tigris, near Canton, on the coast of China, where, having
supplied himself with a new stock of provisions he was thence without delay to make the best
of his way to England.

(*Note. The Trial sloop was a great way to leeward, having lost her mainmast in this squall,
and having been obliged, for fear of bilging, to cut away the wreck.

(*Note. i.e. from the sight of those on board the Centurion.)

A RUSE DE GUERRE.

On the 17th of February at five in the afternoon, we came to an anchor in the latitude of 48
degrees 58 minutes. Weighing again at five the next morning, we an hour afterwards discovered
a sail upon which the Severn and Gloucester were both directed to give chase; but we soon perceived
it to be the Pearl, which separated from us a few days after we left St. Catherine's; and on
this we made a signal for the Severn to rejoin the squadron, leaving the Gloucester alone in
the pursuit. And now we were surprised to see that, on the Gloucester's approach, the people
on board the Pearl increased their sail and stood from her. However, the Gloucester came up
with them, but found them with their hammocks in their nettings and everything ready for an
engagement. At two in the afternoon the Pearl joined us, and running up under our stern, Lieutenant
Salt hailed the Commodore, and acquainted him that Captain Kidd* died on the 31st of January.
By their appearance he thought they consisted of two ships of 70 guns, two of 50, and one of
40 guns. The whole squadron continued in chase of him all that day, but at night, finding they
could not get near him, they gave over the chase, and directed their course to the southward.

(*Note. Captain Mitchel commanded the Pearl when the squadron started; but Captain Norris of
the Gloucester had gone home sick from Madeira and several changes had taken place in the commands.
The death of Captain Kidd caused fresh promotions. At six o'clock we anchored in the Bay of
St. Julian. Soon after the cutters returned on board, having discovered the harbour, which
did not appear to us in our situation, the northernmost point shutting in upon the southernmost,
and in appearance closing the entrance.

Being come to an anchor in this Bay of St. Julian, principally with a view of refitting the
Trial, the carpenters were immediately employed in that business, and continued so during our
whole stay at the place.

(*Note.

A COUNCIL OF WAR.

The Trial being nearly refitted, which was our principal occupation at this Bay of ST. Julian,
and the sole occasion of our stay, the Commodore thought it necessary, as we were now directly
bound for the South Seas and the enemy's coasts, to regulate the plan of his future operations.
At this council Mr. Anson proposed that their first attempt, after their arrival in the South
Seas, should be the attack of the town and harbour of Baldivia, the principal frontier place
of the district of Chile. To this proposition made by the Commodore the council unanimously
and readily agreed; and in consequence of this resolution instructions were given to the captains
of the squadron, by which they were directed in case of separation to make the best of their
way to the island of Nuestra Senora del Socoro, and to cruise off that island ten days; from
whence, if not joined by the Commodore, they were to proceed and cruise off the harbour of
Baldivia, making the land between the latitudes of 40 degrees and 40 degrees 30 minutes, and
taking care to keep to the southward of the port; and if in fourteen days they were not joined
by the rest of the squadron, they were then to quit this station, and to direct their course
to the island of Juan Fernandez, after which they were to regulate their further proceedings
by their former orders. The afternoon of this day was very bright and clear, with small breezes
of wind, inclinable to a calm; and most of the captains took the opportunity of this favourable
weather to pay a visit to the Commodore.

(*Note. Towards midnight, the wind abating, we made sail again; and steering south, we discovered
in the morning for the first time the land called Tierra del Fuego.

THE EVE OF DISASTER. These joyous ideas were heightened by the brightness of the sky and the
serenity of the weather, which was indeed most remarkably pleasing; for though the winter was
now advancing apace, yet the morning of this day, in its brilliancy and mildness, gave place
to none we had seen since our departure from England.

(*Note. The Equator is the zero (0 degrees) of latitude. And now the whole squadron, instead
of pursuing their intended course to the south-west, were driven to the eastward by the united
force of the storm and of the currents; so that next day in the morning we found ourselves
near seven leagues to the eastward of Staten Land. The violence of the current, which had set
us with so much precipitation to the eastward, together with the force and constancy of the
westerly winds, soon taught us to consider the doubling of Cape Horn as an enterprise that
might prove too mighty for our efforts, though some amongst us had lately treated the difficulties
which former voyagers were said to have met with in this undertaking as little better than
chimerical, and had supposed them to arise rather from timidity and unskilfulness than from
the real embarrassments of the winds and seas. And it was not without great reason that this
unusual appearance filled us with continual terror, for had any one of these waves broke fairly
over us, it must in all probability have sent us to the bottom.

SEAS MOUNTAINS HIGH.

It was on the 7th of March, as has been already observed, that we passed Straits le Maire,
and were immediately afterwards driven to the eastward by a violent storm and the force of
the current which set that way. For the four or five succeeding days we had hard gales of wind
from the same quarter, with a most prodigious swell; so that though we stood, during all that
time, towards the south-west, yet we had no reason to imagine we had made any way to the westward.
Indeed, it was very rare that two nights ever passed without many of them being driven from
their beds by the deluge of water that came upon them.

On the 23rd we had a most violent storm of wind, hail, and rain, with a very great sea; and
though we handed the main-topsail before the height of the squall, yet we found the yard sprung;
and soon after, the foot-rope of the mainsail breaking, the mainsail itself split instantly
to rags, and in spite of our endeavours to save it, much the greater part of it was blown overboard.
On this the Commodore made the signal for the squadron to bring to; and, the storm at length
flattening to a calm, we had an opportunity of getting down our main-topsail yard to put the
carpenters at work upon it, and of repairing our rigging; after which, having bent a new mainsail,
we got under sail again with a moderate breeze.

It was this incident that inspired Cowper's 'Castaway,' and called forth the touching verse
given below--a verse so eloquent in its testimony to that gentler side of Anson's nature, which
won for him the affection and regard not only of his own sailors, but even of his Spanish prisoners.

Of this poor sailor, and of the page in the ship's books that bore his name, Cowper wrote:

No poet wept him; but the page Of narrative sincere, That tells his name, his worth, his age,
Is wet with Anson's tear. And tears by bards or heroes shed Alike immortalise the dead.

From hence we had an interval of three or four days less tempestuous than usual, but accompanied
with a thick fog, in which we were obliged to fire guns almost every half-hour to keep our
squadron together.

On the first of April the weather returned again to its customary bias, the sky looked dark
and gloomy, and the wind began to freshen and to blow in squalls; however, it was not yet so
boisterous as to prevent our carrying our topsails close reefed; but its appearance was such
as plainly prognosticated that a still severer tempest was at hand. And accordingly, on the
3rd of April, there came on a storm which both in its violence and continuation (for it lasted
three days) exceeded all that we had hitherto encountered. But even this we could not do long,
for the next day, which was the 7th, we had another hard gale of wind, with lightning and rain,
which obliged us to lie to again all night. For, towards the latter end of March, we were advanced
by our reckoning near 10 degrees to the westward of the westernmost point of Tierra del Fuego,
and this allowance being double what former navigators have thought necessary to be taken in
order to compensate the drift of the eastern current, we esteemed ourselves to be well advanced
within the limits of the southern ocean, and had therefore been ever since standing to the
northward with as much expedition as the turbulence of the weather and our frequent disasters
permitted. And, on the 13th of April, we were but a degree in latitude to the southward of
the west entrance of the straits of Magellan, so that we fully expected, in a very few days,
to have experienced the celebrated tranquillity of the Pacific Ocean.

AN UNEXPECTED DANGER. It was indeed most wonderful that the currents should have driven us
to the eastward with such strength; for the whole squadron esteemed themselves upwards of ten
degrees more westerly than this land. This moderate weather continued with little variation
till the 24th; but on the 24th in the evening the wind began to blow fresh, and soon increased
to a prodigious storm; and the weather being extremely thick, about midnight we lost sight
of the other ships of the squadron, which, notwithstanding the violence of the preceding storms,
had hitherto kept in company with us.

(*Note. Part of Tierra del Fuego near the southern outlet of the Straits of Magellan.)

On the 25th, about noon, the weather became more moderate, but still we had no sight of the
rest of the squadron, nor indeed were we joined by any of them again till after our arrival
at Juan Fernandez, nor did any two of them, as we have since learned, continue in company together.

The remaining part of this month of April we had generally hard gales, although we had been
every day since the 22nd edging to the northward. And under the influence of these pleasing
circumstances we hoped to experience some kind of compensation for the complicated miseries
which had so constantly attended us for the last eight weeks.

(*Note. Peace-making. So named by Magellan from the fine weather he experienced there in 1520
and 1521. He was the first European to enter that ocean. The name was scarcely deserved.)

CHAPTER 7. OUTBREAK OF SCURVY*--DANGER OF SHIPWRECK.

(*Note. 'Scurvy.' The nature of the disease and the proper method of treatment were not fully
understood in Anson's day. It is caused by improper diet and particularly by the want of fresh
vegetables. Lemon and lime juice are the best protectives against it and they were made an
essential element in nautical diet in 1795. The disease which used to cause dreadful mortality
on long voyages has since that time gradually disappeared and is now very rarely met with.)

THE PACIFIC. But though we thought that the distemper had then risen to an extraordinary height,
and were willing to hope that as we advanced to the northward its malignant would abate, yet
we found, on the contrary, that in the month of May we lost nearly double that number. And
it was no uncommon thing for those who were able to walk the deck, and to do some kind of duty,
to drop down dead in an instant, on any endeavours to act with their utmost vigour, many of
our people having perished in this manner during the course of this voyage.

(*Note. William III defeated James II and his army of Irish and French troops July 12th, 1690.)

THE ISLAND OF SOCORO.

With this terrible disease we struggled the greatest part of the time of our beating round
Cape Horn. We entertained hopes that when we should have once secured our passage round the
Cape, we should put a period to this and all the other evils which had so constantly pursued
us. But it was our misfortune to find that the Pacific Ocean was to us less hospitable than
the turbulent neighbourhood of Tierra del Fuego and Cape Horn; for being arrived, on the 8th
of May, off the island of Socoro, which was the first rendezvous appointed for the squadron,
and where we hoped to have met with some of our companions, we cruised for them in that station
several days.

CHAPTER 8. JUAN FERNANDEZ--THE TRIAL REJOINS.

THE SEARCH FOR JUAN FERNANDEZ.

(*Note. 'Juan Fernandez.' This island which is 13 miles long by 4 miles broad, now belongs
to Chili. It was discovered in 1563 by Juan Fernandez. As it was unoccupied it was a favourite
resort of the buccaneers throughout the seventeenth century, as well as of English squadrons
despatched like those of Dampier and Anson, to prey on Spanish commerce, and needing to refit
and water after the long voyage round Cape Horn. The Spaniards at last occupied it in 1750,
in self-defence.

On the 30th of May we had a view of the continent of Chili, distant about twelve or thirteen
leagues.

It appeared to be a mountainous place, extremely ragged and irregular; yet as it was land and,
the land we sought for, it was to us a most agreeable sight.

EVEN GRASS A DAINTY.

However, on the 10th, in the afternoon, we got under the lee of the island, and kept ranging
along it at about two miles' distance, in order to look out for the proper anchorage, which
was described to be in a bay on the north side. But at last the night closed upon us before
we had satisfied ourselves which was the proper bay to anchor in, and therefore we resolved
to send our boat next morning to discover the road. The seals, too, were considered as fresh
provision, but as yet were not much admired, though they grew afterwards into more repute;
for what rendered them less valuable at this juncture was the prodigious quantity of excellent
fish which the people on board had taken during the absence of the boat.

The cutter, in this expedition, had discovered the bay where we intended to anchor, which we
found was to the westward of our present station; and the next morning we steered along shore
till we came abreast of the point that forms the eastern part of the bay. On opening the bay,
the wind, that had befriended us thus far, shifted, and blew from thence in squalls; but by
means of the headway we had got, we luffed close in, till the anchor brought us up in fifty-six
fathoms. Soon after we had thus got to our new berth, we discovered a sail, which we made no
doubt was one of our squadron; and on its nearer approach, we found it to be the Trial sloop.
We immediately sent some of our hands on board her, by whose assistance she was brought to
an anchor between us and the land. We soon found that the sloop had not been exempted from
those calamities which we had so severely felt; for her commander, Captain Saunders, waiting
on the Commodore, informed him that out of his small complement he had buried thirty-four of
his men; and those that remained were so universally afflicted with the scurvy that only himself,
his lieutenant, and three of his men were able to stand by the sails.

(*Note. Alexander Selkirk (1676 to 1721) was an adventurous sailor who joined Dampier's privateering
expedition to the South Seas in 1703. He quarrelled with his captain, Stradling, and requested
to be landed on the uninhabited island of Juan Fernandez. He immediately repented of his request,
and begged to be taken off; but his prayers were disregarded, and he remained on the island
from September, 1704, until he was picked up in 1709 by Dampier's new expedition. An account
of his adventures was published, which apparently gave Defoe his idea of Robinson Crusoe.)

We were now extremely occupied in sending on shore materials to raise tents for the reception
of the sick, who died apace on board. But we had not hands enough to prepare the tents for
their reception before the 16th. This was a work of considerable fatigue to the few who were
healthy; and therefore the Commodore, with his accustomed humanity, not only assisted herein
with his own labour, but obliged his officers, without distinction, to give their helping hand.

ALEXANDER SELKIRK. And there are two instances--one of a Mosquito Indian, and the other of
Alexander Selkirk, a Scotchman, who were left by their respective ships, and lived alone upon
this island for some years, and consequently were no strangers to its produce. He tells us,
among other things, as he often caught more goats than he wanted, he sometimes marked their
ears and let them go. This was about thirty-two years before our arrival at the island. Now
it happened that the first goat that was killed by our people at their landing had his ears
slit; whence we concluded that he had doubtless been formerly under the power of Selkirk. This
was indeed an animal of a most venerable aspect, dignified with an exceeding majestic beard,
and with many other symptoms of antiquity. During our stay on the island we met with others
marked in the same manner, all the males being distinguished by an exuberance of beard and
every other characteristic of extreme age. But the great numbers of goats, which former writers
described to have been found upon this island, are at present very much diminished. For the
Spaniards being informed of the advantages which the buccaneers and privateers drew from the
provisions which goats' flesh here furnished them with, they have endeavoured to extirpate
the breed, thereby to deprive their enemies of this relief. For this purpose they have put
on shore great numbers of large dogs, who have increased apace, and have destroyed all the
goats in the accessible part of the country; so that there now remain only a few among the
crags and precipices where the dogs cannot follow them.

(Note. 'The buccaneers.' The name "buccaneer" originally meant one who dried or smoked flesh
on a "boucan," a kind of hurdle used for this purpose by the natives of Central and South America.
The English, French, and Dutch smugglers who, in spite of the monopoly so jealously guarded
by the Spaniards (see Introduction above) traded in the Caribbean seas, used to provision at
St. Domingo largely with beef, jerked or sun-dried on the boucans. These men formed an organised
body, under a chief chosen by themselves, and, under the name of the buccaneers, were for three-quarters
of a century the terror of the Spaniards. In 1655 they were powerful enough to give material
assistance to the English fleet which conquered Jamaica. In 1671 they raised a force of 2,000
men, marched across the isthmus, and besieged and took Panama; their success, as usual, being
marked by horrible atrocities. In 1685 a Spanish fleet of fourteen sail, which had been fitted
out to put them down, found ten buccaneer ships in the bay of Panama, but dared not give them
battle. The war between France and England after 1688 dissolved the alliance between the French
and English buccaneers; and the last conspicuous event in their history was the capture of
Cartagena in 1697. But there is another amphibious creature to be met with here, called a sea-lion,
that bears some resemblance to a seal, though it is much larger. This, too, we ate, under the
denomination of beef. In general there was no difficulty in killing them, for they were incapable
either of escaping or resisting, their motion being the most unwieldy that can be conceived,
their blubber, all the time they were moving, being agitated in large waves under their skins.

RETURN OF THE GLOUCESTER. However, after viewing her for a short time, the weather grew thick
and hazy, and they lost sight of her.

