VOL. I.--NO. 32.

BY WM. L. ALDEN.

CHAPTER II.

When Uncle John announced that the Department was satisfied with the ability of the captain
and crew to manage the Whitewing, the day for sailing was fixed, and the boys laid in their
stores. Each one had a fishing-line and hooks, and Harry and Tom each took a fishing-pole--two
poles being as many as were needed, since most of the fishing would probably be done with drop-lines.
Uncle John lent Harry his double-barrelled gun, and a supply of ammunition. Each boy took a
tin plate, a tin cup, knife, fork, and spoon. For cooking purposes, the boat carried a coffee-pot,
two tin cake-pans, which could be used as frying-pans as well as for other purposes, and two
small tin pails. Harry's mother lent him several large round tin boxes, in which were stored
four pounds of coffee, two pounds of sugar, a pound of Indian meal, a large quantity of crackers,
some salt, and a little pepper. The rest of the provisions consisted of two cans of soup, two
cans of corned beef, a can of roast beef, two small cans of devilled chicken, four cans of
fresh peaches, a little package of condensed beef for making beef tea, and a cold boiled ham.
The boat was furnished with an A tent, four rubber blankets and four woollen blankets, a hatchet,
a quantity of spare cordage, a little bull's-eye lantern, which burnt olive-oil, and a few
copper nails, a pair of pliers, a small piece of zinc, a little white lead, for mending a leak.
Of course there was a bottle of oil for the lantern; and Mrs. Schuyler added a box of pills
and a bottle of "Hamlin's Mixture" as medical stores. The boys wore blue flannel trousers and
shirts, and each one carried an extra pair of trousers, and an extra shirt instead of a coat.
These, with a few pairs of stockings and two or three handkerchiefs, were all the clothing
that they needed, so Uncle John said; though the boys had imagined that they must take at least
two complete suits. He showed them that two flannel shirts worn at the same time, one over
the other, would be as warm as one shirt and a coat, and that if their clothing became wet,
it could be easily dried. "Flannel and the compass are the two things that are indispensable
to navigation," said Uncle John. "If flannel shirts had not been invented, Columbus would never
have crossed the Atlantic." Perhaps there was a little exaggeration in this; but when we remember
that flannel is the only material that is warm in cold weather and cool in hot weather, and
that dries almost as soon as it is wrung out and hung in the wind, it is difficult to see how
sailors could do without it.

The boys agreed very readily to take with them only what Uncle John advised. Tom Schuyler,
however, was very anxious to take a heavy iron vise, which, he said, could be screwed on the
gunwale of the boat, and might prove to be very useful, although he could not say precisely
what he expected to use it for. Joe Sharpe also wanted to take a base-ball and bat, but neither
the vise nor the ball and bat were taken.

The Whitewing started from the foot of East One-hundred-and-twenty-seventh Street on a Monday
morning in the middle of July, at about nine o'clock. Quite a small crowd of friends were present
to see the boys off, and the neat appearance of the boat and her crew attracted the attention
of all the idlers along the shore. When all the cargo was stowed, and everything was ready,
Uncle John called the boys aside, and said, "Now, boys, you must sign the articles."

"What are articles?" asked all the boys at once.

"They are certain regulations which every respectable pirate, or any other sailor, for that
matter, must agree to keep when he joins a ship. I'll read the articles, and if any of you
don't like any one of them, say so frankly, for you must not begin a cruise in a dissatisfied
state of mind. Here are the articles:

"'I. We, the captain and crew of the Whitewing, promise to decide all disputed questions by
the vote of the majority, except questions concerning the management of the boat. The orders
of the captain, in all matters connected with the management of the boat, shall be promptly
obeyed by the crew.'

"Now if anybody thinks that the captain should not have the full control of the boat, let him
say so at once. Very likely the captain will make mistakes; but the boat will be safer, even
if the crew obeys a wrong order, than it would be if every order should be debated by the crew.
You can't hold town-meetings when you are afloat. Harry, I think, understands pretty well how
to sail the boat. Will you agree to obey his orders?"

All the boys said they would; and Joe Sharpe added that he thought the captain ought to have
the right to put mutineers in irons.

"That, let us hope, will not be necessary," said Uncle John. "Now listen to the second article:

"'II. We promise not to take corn, apples, or other property without permission of the owner.'

"You will very likely camp near some field where corn, or potatoes, or something eatable, is
growing. Many people think there is no harm in taking a few ears of corn or half a dozen apples.
I want you to remember that to take anything that is not your own, unless you have permission
to do so, is stealing. It's an ugly word, but it can't be smoothed over in any way. Do you
object to this article?"

Nobody objected to it. "We're moral pirates, Uncle John," said Tom Schuyler, "and we won't
disgrace the Department by stealing."

"I knew you would not except through thoughtlessness. Now these are all the articles. I did
think of asking you not to quarrel, or to use bad language; but I don't believe it is necessary
to ask you to make such a promise, and if it were, you probably would not keep it. So sign
the articles, give them to the captain, and take your stations."

The articles were signed. The captain seated himself in the stern-sheets, and took the yoke
lines. The rest took their proper places, and Joe Sharpe held the boat to the dock by the boat-hook.
"Are you all ready?" cried Uncle John.

"All ready, sir!" answered Harry.

"Then give way with your oars! Good-by, boys, and don't forget to send reports to the Department."

The boat glided away from the shore with Tom and Jim each pulling a single oar. The group on
the wharf gave the boys a farewell cheer, and in a few moments they were hid from sight by
the Third Avenue Bridge. The tide was against them, but the day was a cool one for the season,
and the boys rowed steadily on in the very best of spirits. There was a light south wind, but
as there were several bridges to pass, Harry thought it best not to set the sail before reaching
the Hudson River. It required careful steering to avoid the steamboats, bridge piles, and small
boats; but the Whitewing was guided safely, and her signal--a red flag with a white cross--floated
gayly at the bow.

Uncle John had made one serious mistake: he had forgotten all about the tide, and never thought
of the difficulty the boys would find in passing Farmers-bridge with the tide against them.
They had passed High Bridge, and had entered a part of the river with which the boys were not
familiar, when Joe Sharpe suddenly called out, "There's a low bridge right ahead that we can't
pass." A few more strokes of the oars enabled Harry to see a long low bridge, which completely
blocked up the river except at one place, that seemed not much wider than the boat. Through
this narrow channel the tide was rushing fiercely, the water heaping itself up in waves that
looked unpleasantly high and rough. The boat was rowed as close as possible to the opening
under the bridge; but the current was so strong that the boys could not row against it, and
even if they had been able to stem it, the channel was too narrow to permit them to use the oars.

Harry ordered the boat to be rowed up to the bridge at a place where there was a quiet eddy,
and all the crew went ashore to contrive some way of overcoming the difficulty. Presently Harry
thought of a plan. "If we could get the painter under the bridge, we could pull the boat through
easy enough if there was nobody in her."

"That's all very well," said Joe, "but how are you going to get the painter through?"

"I know," cried Jim. "Let's take a long piece of rope and drop it in the water the other side
of the bridge. The current will float it through, and we can catch it and tie it to the painter."

The plan seemed a good one; and so the boys took a piece of spare rope from the boat, tied
a bit of board to one end of it for a float, dropped the float into the water, and held on
to the other end of the rope. When the float came in sight below the bridge they caught it
with the boat-hook, and throwing away the piece of board, tied the rope to the painter. "Now
let Joe Sharpe get in the bow of the boat, to keep her from running against anything, and we'll
haul her right through," exclaimed Harry.

Joe took his place in the bow, and pushing the boat off, let her float into the current. Then
the three other boys pulled on the rope, and were delighted to see the boat glide under the
bridge. Suddenly Joe gave a wild yell. "She's sinking, boys!" he cried: "let go the rope, or
I'll be drowned!" The boys, terribly frightened, dropped the rope, and in another minute the
boat floated back on the current, half full of water, and without Joe. Almost as soon as it
came in sight, Harry had thrown off his shoes and jumped into the river.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

MR. MARTIN'S GAME.

BY JIMMY BROWN.

What if he is a great deal older than I am! that doesn't giv him any right to rumple my hair,
does it? I'm willing to respect old age, of course, but I want my hair respected too.

But rumpling hair isn't enough for Mr. Martin; he must call me "Bub," and "Sonny." I might
stand "Sonny," but I won't stand being called "Bub" by any living man--not if I can help it.
I've told him three or four times, "My name isn't 'Bub,' Mr. Martin. My name's Jim, or Jimmy,"
but he would just grin in an exhausperating kind of way, and keep on calling me "Bub."

My sister Sue doesn't like him any better than I do. He comes to see her about twice a week,
and I've heard her say, "Goodness me, there's that tiresome old bachelor again." But she treats
him just as polite as she does anybody; and when he brings her candy, she says, "Oh, Mr. Martin,
you are too good." There's a great deal of make-believe about girls, I think.

Now that I've mentioned candy, I will say that he might pass it around, but he never thinks
of such a thing. Mr. Travers, who is the best of all Sue's beaux, always brings candy with
him, and gives me a lot. Then he generally gives me a quarter to go to the post-office for
him, because he forgot to go, and expects something very important. It takes an hour to go
to the post-office and back, but I'd do anything for such a nice man.

One night--it was Mr. Travers's regular night--Mr. Martin came, and wasn't Sue mad! She knew
Mr. Travers would come in about half an hour, and she always made it a rule to keep her young
men separate.

She sent down word that she was busy, and would be down stairs after a while. Would Mr. Martin
please sit down and wait. So he sat down on the front piazza and waited.

I was sitting on the grass, practicing mumble-te-peg a little, and by-and-by Mr. Martin says,
"Well, Bub, what are you doing?"

"Playing a game," says I. "Want to learn it?"

"Well, I don't care if I do," says he. So he came out, and sat in the grass, and I showed him
how to play.

Just then Mr. Travers arrived, and Sue came down, and was awfully glad to see both her friends.
"But what in the world are you doing," she says to Mr. Martin. When she heard that he was learning
the game, she said, "How interesting, do play one game."

Mr. Martin finally said he would. So we played a game, and I let him beat me very easy. He
laughed fit to kill himself when I drew the peg, and said it was the best game he ever played.

"Is there any game you play any better than this, Sonny?" said he, in his most irragravating style.

"Let's have another game," said I. "Only you must promise to draw the peg fair, if I beat you."

"All right," said he. "I'll draw the peg if you beat me, Bub."

Oh, he felt so sure he was a first-class player! I don't like a conceited man, no matter if
he is only a boy.

You can just imagine how quick I beat him. Why, I went right through to "both ears" without
stopping, and the first time I threw the knife over my head it stuck in the ground.

I cut a beautiful peg out of hard wood--one of those sharp, slender pegs that will go through
anything but a stone. I drove it in clear out of sight, and Mr. Martin, says he, "Why, Sonny,
nobody couldn't possibly draw that peg."

"I've drawn worse pegs than that," said I. "You've got to clear away the earth with your chin
and front teeth, and then you can draw it."

"That is nonsense," says Mr. Martin, growing red in the face.

"This is a fair and square game," says I, "and you gave your word to draw the peg if I beat you."

"I do hope Mr. Martin will play fair," said Sue. "It would be too bad to cheat a little boy."

So Mr. Martin laid down and tried it, but he didn't like it one bit. "See here, Jimmy," said
he, "I'll give you half a dollar, and we'll consider the peg drawn."

"That is bribery and corruption," said I. "Mr. Martin, I can't be bribed, and didn't think
you'd try to hire me to let you break your promise."

When he saw I wouldn't let up on him, he laid down again and went to work.

It was the best fun I ever knew. I just rolled on the ground and laughed till I cried. Sue
and Mr. Travers didn't roll, but they laughed till Sue got up and ran into the house, where
I could hear her screaming on the front-parlor sofa, and mother crying out, "My darling child,
where does it hurt you, won't you have the doctor, Jane do bring the camphor."

Mr. Martin gnawed away at the earth, and used swear-words to himself, and was perfectly raging.
After a while he got the peg, and then he got up with his face about the color of a flower-pot,
and put on his hat, and went out of the front gate rubbing his face with his handkerchief,
and never so much as saying good-night. He didn't come near the house again for two weeks.

Mr. Travers gave me a half-dollar to go to the post-office to make up for the one I had refused,
and told me that I had displayed roaming virtue, though I don't know exactly what he meant.

He looked over this story, and corrected the spelling for me, and told me to send it to the
YOUNG PEOPLE. Only it is to be a secret that he helped me. I'd do almost anything for him,
and I'm going to ask Sue to marry him just to please me.

A CHAT ABOUT PHILATELY.

BY J. J. CASEY.

Philately? What is that?

Many years ago, beyond the longest recollection of the oldest of the young people, a school-teacher
in Paris (so one story goes) advised her pupils to get specimens of different postage stamps,
in order the better to study their geography. There was a general searching among old letters
to secure these little bits of bright-colored papers. Parents and friends were asked to save
the stamps from their letters; strangers at the post-office were pounced upon, the moment they
received their letters, for the stamps; and from this little beginning sprang stamp-collecting.

At first it was limited to boys and girls; but the older people, seeing the interest excited
over these little pictures, and led on by their endeavors to please their young acquaintances,
began themselves taking an interest in the things. From a pleasure it gradually became a study,
and a most fascinating one; and soon there were no more enthusiastic collectors than the people
advanced in years, wealth, position, and social, literary, and scientific attainments. And
to-day many great people turn with pleasure from the cares of their life to the pages of their
stamp albums, to look over the numerous evidences of the growth of the postal system, or to
help some young friend in the filling up of a modest little blank-book.

In spite of the ridicule which has been heaped upon the collector of stamps, the interest in
stamp-collecting is as great to-day as it was a dozen years ago, and from Prince Edward Island
to Australia will be found stamp "merchants," as they delight to call themselves, stamp papers,
and stamp agencies, to supply the continually increasing demands of young and old collectors.
Societies exist in several countries, at the meetings of which most learned papers are read
to show the why and the wherefore of this or that stamp, and even the government at Montevideo
has authorized a stamp society, lately established there, to use a private postal card.

This pursuit of stamp collecting is called Philately, from two Greek words, which have been
translated "the love of stamps," and those who engage in the pleasure or the pursuit are pleased
to call themselves Philatelists.

This little "chat" shall be closed by a reference to the illustrations of some curious or interesting
stamps, and a notice of stamps that have been issued during the past few months.

Fig. 1 is one of the series of United States stamps for postage on large packages of newspapers
and periodicals, and represents a value of forty-eight dollars. There is a higher value of
sixty dollars. These stamps are perfect gems, and are among the most beautiful in the world.

Fig. 2 represents one of the stamps in use to-day in Japan. It is only necessary to compare
a specimen of this issue with the first stamps used in Japan to see how rapidly the Japanese
acquire every modern improvement.

Fig. 3 is one of the current Guatemala stamps, printed in Paris, which found their way to collectors
before they were delivered to the government. The thick black line on either side is a bird's
tail--the quezal, or national bird, one of the most beautiful on this continent.

Figs. 4 and 5 represent stamps used in two of the native states of India. The native stamps
of India, ugly as many of them are, are among the most interesting found in the collector's
album, and quite difficult to obtain.

Fig. 6 is one from the South African Republic, or the Transvaal, lately seized by England.

Some of the newest issues are:

     ANTIGUA.--A new value, 4d., blue; and a postal card, 1-1/2d.,
     red-brown on buff.

     CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.--The 4d., blue, surcharged in red above,
     "Three Pence."

     DANISH WEST INDIES.--A new value, 50c., same type as current
     series, in mauve.

     GOLD COAST.--Stamps of 1/2d., golden yellow, and 2d., green;
     and card of 1-1/2d., red-brown.

     GREAT BRITAIN.--The 2-1/2d. stamp is printed in blue, and the
     2s. changes from blue to red-brown.

     PERU.--A new series of stamps is in preparation, but for the
     present the authorities surcharge the current stamp with the
     words, "Union Postale Universelle" and "Plata," in an oval. The
     1c. changes its color to green, the 2c. to carmine, and the
     20c. is suppressed.

     ROUMELIA.--This province of Turkey begins its stamp history with a
     postal card of the value of 10 paras, as expressed on the face,
     but in reality of 15 paras, at which it is sold.

BUTTERFLIES AND BEES.

  Butterflies are merry things,
  Gayly painted are their wings,
  And they never carry stings.
  Bees are grave and busy things,
  Gold their jackets, brown their wings,
  And they always carry stings.
  Yet--isn't it extremely funny?--
  Bees, not butterflies, make honey.

AN APRONFUL OF WATER-CRESSES.

BY MARGARET EYTINGE.

Cissy Mount came down to the gurgling, sparkling little brook at the foot of the hill, where
Frank Hillborn and his brother Dave were gathering water-cresses.

"I'm going to Fairview, Frank," she said, "and came to ask you if you would look in on mother
by-and-by, and see if she needs anything."

"Of course I will," said Frank. "But you're not going to walk to Fairview, Cissy? That's a
long tramp for a girl."

"Yes, I am," she replied. "There's no other way I can go. Nobody that I know ever drives down
there. Mother wants me to try and get her some sewing to do. You know there are five or six
big stores there, and mother can sew and knit beautifully. I wish I had time to pick some wild
flowers to take with me. Town-people like wild flowers."

"A good many of them like something fresh and green to eat better than they do wild flowers,"
said Frank; "so you just take along some of these water-cresses. Aren't they beauties? They're
the first we've gathered this spring, and I hope they'll bring you luck."

"But I have no basket," said Cissy.

"Carry them in your apron. They won't hurt;" and as she held it up, he heaped it full of moist
green bunches.

"That's just like you, Frank Hillborn," said Dave, when the girl had gone. "What's the good
of our owning the only water-cress brook for miles if you're going to give 'em away to everybody
that comes along?"

"Everybody that comes along?" repeated Frank, with a cheery laugh. "I've only given a basketful
to Ezra Lee--he lent us his fishing-line when we lost ours--and an apronful to Cissy Mount.
Poor Cissy! Guess there's hard times at her house since her father was killed on the railroad
and her mother got lame. And you know she's going to ask for work, and it most always puts
folks in good-humor if you carry 'em something nice."

"All right," said Dave; "but don't you give away any more, for we want to make five dollars
out of 'em this season, anyhow."

Cissy Mount walked bravely on mile after mile, until half of her journey had been accomplished.
Then she stopped and looked around for a place where she might rest awhile. A pleasant little
lane, on either side of which stood a row of tall cedar-trees, branched off from the main road.
Into this lane she turned, and sat down on the grass near the side gate of a fine garden. And
as she sat there peeping through a hole in the hedge at some lovely beds of hyacinths and tulips,
radiant in the sunshine, a queer-looking little old gentleman, with no hat on, but having a
wonderful quantity of brown hair, came scolding down the garden path, followed by a man carrying
a camp-chair. The old gentleman as he talked grew more and more excited, and at last, to Cissy's
great astonishment, grasped the abundant brown locks, lifted them completely off his head,
waved them in the air an instant, and then gravely replaced them. As he came near, the child
could hear what he was saying: "I sent word from Europe when this place was bought that if
there were no water-cress stream upon it, one was to be made at once. That's a year ago."

"Beg pardon, sir," said the man, humbly, "but I did my best, sir. It isn't my fault, sir. Sometimes
you can't make water-cresses grow, all you can do, sir."

"And what's to be done with the puddle--for it's nothing but a puddle, though a big one--that
you've disfigured my grounds with?" asked the old gentleman.

"Miss Grace says it will be a capital place for raising water-lilies, sir," said the man.

"Oh, indeed! Very fine. But I can't eat water-lilies. There's no pepper about them, and it's
the pepper I want."

"Perhaps I can find some cresses for sale somewhere near, sir. Shall I go and look, sir?"

