"I am sorry, Madame, I can not oblige you," he said, "but my arrangements are all made, even
to my wardrobe, and it is now too late to change, disagreeable as it is to me to disoblige a lady."

The blood of the Kirkpatricks was rising in Francezka's veins; the air suddenly seemed full
of electricity. I saw her involuntarily place her hand upon the inkstand, a heavy, bronze one,
lying on the table, and I thought the chance was that she would throw it in Jacques Haret's
face. To save her from so wild an act was my only thought. I reached over, and getting a good
grip on Jacques Haret, which I could do easily, as he was entirely off his guard, I flung him
headlong through the open door into the garden below. Then, not wishing Francezka's identity
to be revealed, I motioned to her and Madame Villars, and we hurried out of the room.

I forgot until the ladies were in their sedans that the scrap of writing in Francezka's hand
lay on the table and would be seen by Gaston Cheverny and probably by Monsieur Voltaire. My
trouble was all in vain, but I was glad I had thrown Jacques Haret through the door.

The chairmen went off at a rapid pace, I following. We turned a corner, which gave me a clear
look through the garden of the room we had just left. Gaston was standing stock still, holding
the scrap of paper in his hand. He knew then who the masked visitors were. I walked by the
side of Francezka's chair, through the dark streets until we came to the Hôtel Kirkpatrick.
Madame Villars lived close by, and we parted with her first. She said good night, but made
no comment on the events of the evening. She was no fool, and saw that something had happened,
although she knew not what.

We passed through the small gate of the courtyard and around to the private entrance, where
Francezka dismissed the chairmen and I took off my mask and domino. We were standing in a quiet
little court at one side of the great entrance. It was very still and dark, and the stars,
palpitating, and bright, and distant, seemed to be laughing at the miseries of the poor mice,
as Voltaire called them, hidden away in the small holes of the immense building called the
Universe. Francezka, panting for breath, took off her mask. Her pale face and her eyes, somber,
but full of smoldering fire, were half shrouded in the hood of her domino. In her black garb,
and with a look of despair upon her face, she was as far removed from that dazzling Francezka
of the former time as could well be imagined. I was not disposed to make light of what she
had seen and heard that night. Nothing is more uncomfortable than to live with a mystery, and
when that mystery is in the person one should love best in the world, when it poisons all the
springs of joy and makes the things known best in life strange to one, it is a very dreadful
thing. Francezka spoke after a while.

"Do you wonder, Babache, that I am a miserable woman?"

And I said with perfect honesty in my heart:

"No, Madame. I do not wonder in the least."

She paused, and I supposed she was about to say something to me about Gaston, when she uttered
these words which remain forever in my heart, which not one waking hour has failed to recall
since she uttered them:

"Babache, remember, when I am gone, that nobody in the world was ever so good a friend to me
as you. I speak not of lovers--Gaston was once my lover."

She paused as if overcome, and then hurriedly vanished within the open door.

Her words thrilled me with joy and pain. What did she mean by saying, "When I am gone?" Who
was more likely to live than Francezka? Why should she be contemplating the end of all things?
I was roused from my anxious reverie by the sound of locking the great iron gates, the bolts
and bars making a huge noise in the stillness of the night. This grating sound, however, did
not drown those words of Francezka's. Something led my footsteps again to the street, where
I could get from the back a clear view of Monsieur Voltaire's room. When I reached the place
all was dark, and the doors and windows were closed for the night, but on the corner stood
a plain coach, which I recognized in the half darkness of the summer night as belonging to
Gaston Cheverny.

If I had been surprised at his patience with Jacques Haret's impertinence an hour ago, I now
saw that it was not so long suffering as I had thought, for Gaston, sitting in the coach and
holding the door open, was swearing at Jacques Haret with a concentration of rage I had never
seen excelled in any human being before. Every word that he said was true, but there was a
defiance in it which further sustained my notion that Jacques Haret held some power over Gaston
Cheverny.

Jacques was taking it with the same coolness he had taken the beating I had given him in the
Luxembourg gardens. Gaston was shouting out insults to him, and when Gaston stopped at the
point where any other man would have drawn his sword, Jacques coolly remarked:

"You have called me a liar, a blackmailer, a leper, a dog and a devil's imp. I take it that
you are of a different opinion from me on certain points. Your withdrawing your invitation
to me to the château of Capello is most unhandsome. However, it is not your château, anyhow."

Gaston leaped out of the coach after him, but Jacques Haret disappeared somewhere in the darkness,
for he had no scruples about avoiding a fight, yet I believe him to have been singularly insensible
to fear.

Within three days I heard that Monsieur and Madame Cheverny had left Paris for their estates
in Brabant. As they went together, it was plain there had been no outward break between them.

CHAPTER XXXIV

A GARRET IN PRAGUE

The great parties at Chambord followed and lasted all through June. They were like the one
in December, but they were not illuminated by the wit, the beauty, the ineffable charm of Francezka.
It may be imagined how little I enjoyed them. My heart was like lead in my bosom. Every waking
hour, and often in my dreams, I saw Francezka's face as I had last seen it, pale and despairing.

There was something else besides pleasuring at Chambord; the fêtes were meant to disguise more
serious events. On an August morning at daylight Count Saxe changed his ball costume for his
riding dress and set forth to take command of the van of Marshal Belle-Isle's army, which was
to cross the Rhine at Fort Louis, thirty miles below Strasburg. Gaston Cheverny was not to
be with us. He was to go with the army of Marshal Maillebois, which was to cross the Rhine
near Düsseldorf.

Count Saxe had been in a quandary about inviting Gaston Cheverny to resume his old place as
aide-de-camp. There could be no doubt that Gaston merited much from Count Saxe, as it was owing
to Count Saxe's own imprudence in remaining unguarded at Hüningen that Gaston Cheverny had
been lost to life and love for seven years. Yet my master felt toward him the same coldness
of heart that I did. It is true that Gaston's alleged inability to use his right arm properly
would be a drawback, but one likely to be passed over by any commander who really wished his
services, and especially by Count Saxe, taking the past into consideration. In truth there
was every reason why Count Saxe should again offer a place in his military family to Gaston
Cheverny. But he felt a singular indisposition to do it.

Gaston, ever quick of wit, relieved Count Saxe of his awkward predicament. He wrote, saying
that Marshal Maillebois had made him an admirable offer, and while he recognized Count Saxe's
right to his services, he scarcely thought anything so promising could be given him in the
army of Marshal Belle-Isle. My master jumped at this easy way out of his difficulty and wrote,
desiring Gaston Cheverny to suit himself. At the same time he inclosed a letter highly recommending
Gaston to Marshal Maillebois. Every word in that letter, which I wrote myself, was true, because
it referred to the Gaston Cheverny we had known before 1740.

Gaston replied most handsomely, and so the matter was settled to everybody's satisfaction.
But it gave me a feeling of stupefaction that the person we were trying to part from decently,
and to avoid with the greatest seeming tenderness, was the Gaston Cheverny whom I had loved
the instant my eyes had rested on him, whom my master had bade me capture for Courland, who
had served us as loyally as man could serve in all those adventurous days, who had been Count
Saxe's right-hand man, and whose readiness and devotion to Count Saxe had cost such a price
as Gaston had paid. It was staggering.

On that rosy August dawn Count Saxe, with a small escort, started for the Rhine by way of Châlons.
This did not take us near Brabant, and there seemed no chance of my seeing Francezka. This
gave me great uneasiness of mind. I was haunted by a whole troop of malignant fears, of dreadful
apprehensions about that being, so ineffably dear to me. And these hideous shapes marched with
me, and kept watch over me, and visited me nightly in my dreams. And to no one, not even to
Count Saxe, could I speak of them! I could only go on steadfastly doing my duty.

We reached Fort Louis, and Count Saxe being put in command of the vanguard, consisting of about
fifteen thousand men, of Marshal Belle-Isle's army, we began the crossing of the river. We
knew we were playing a game of war with loaded dice, but soldiers must not inquire too curiously
into their orders. Marshal Belle-Isle had gone to Germany the year before with a basket of
eggs, which he reckoned as full-grown chickens, but the eggs mostly addled and would not hatch,
so the game with the loaded dice was substituted.

We were on the march early in September, through the blue Bavarian mountains, where the air,
though sharp, was like good wine, and then into the wild Bohemian country, full of rocks and
bogs and black chasms, and shaggy mountains, ever colder and bleaker, ever farther and farther
away from our base. Marshal Saxe was troubled with the company of the King of Saxony, whom
Marshal Belle-Isle made King of Moravia; as Count Saxe said: "He is King of Moravia very much
as I am Duke of Courland."

At last, in the midst of the storms, the snows, the fierce winds of November in that wild Bohemian
country, we found ourselves set down before Prague. And Prague we must take or starve--starve
all of us--men and horses together.

There was a multitude of counselors, each counseling some different form of folly, and only
my master, with one or two to support him steadfastly proclaiming that we must take Prague
or be lost. There were innumerable objections made; it was a stupendous undertaking, for we
had nothing fit for besieging, only our good swords and Maurice of Saxe to lead us. But at
last, seeing ruin advancing upon us in the shape of an Austrian army, while starvation stood
sentry over us, the King of Saxony and the rest of them were visited with a great light and
concluded to let my master have his way; and the night of the twenty-seventh of November, 1741,
was fixed upon to assault the town. It was a cold, clear night, with a moon that made all things
white and light.

At midnight, when the town was sleeping, and only the sentries waked and walked, a tremendous
cannonade broke out all around the walls, heaviest toward the south. This was but a sham attack,
but the best part of the garrison hastened there to repel it. And then Count Saxe, advancing
from the gardens and cottages on the Wischerad side, came to the walls. The men rushed forward
with the scaling ladders, but they were full ten feet too short. Despair and blankness fell
upon us, until Count Saxe, seeing a great, weird Thing standing gaunt and black in the white
moonlight--this Thing, the gallows tree--cried out cheerfully:

"See, my lads, yonder are likely to be some short ladders; these we will splice with rope,
and so make the scalade!"

And it was done, Count Saxe himself being the first man on the rampart. He had for his body-guard,
my Uhlans--men fit to be the body-guard of Mars himself. But the gods of war are invisibly
protected. All the books upon war say that generals should take care of their skins. I have
often noticed, however, that generals who try to take care of their skins usually get shot
every time they go within the enemy's range.

Count Saxe, however, without getting a single scratch, found himself at the head of his men
in the great open market-place, where the French made their rendezvous, and there we soon found
ten thousand of our fifteen thousand brave fellows. Prague was ours, and almost without the
loss of a man, so masterly had been Count Saxe's dispositions.

There is something appalling in the sight of a town taken in the night. Although Prague was
supposed to be taken by assault, it was really carried by strategy, and there were none of
the horrors of a capture by storming. But the horrible fears of the inhabitants, the terrors
of the women and children, the dreadful midnight awakening--all, all, have in them something
calculated to affright the soul.

These things passed through my mind, when, with my men posted according to Count Saxe's orders,
I listened to the cries, the screams of frightened creatures, and imagined the shuddering terrors
behind the walls of those tall old houses, their peaks shining in the white moonlight. And
then, by an accident in handling a torch, one of those tall old houses by the market-place
caught fire. Instantly, it was like Bedlam; at every one of the many windows appeared people
shrieking, praying, crying. And glancing into one of those windows, where an old woman was
screaming frantically, I saw a strange, a mysterious sight: upon a wretched bed lay a sick
man--lay Gaston Cheverny!

I had not been brought up in the streets of Paris and forced to soldier it since my fourteenth
year without becoming tolerably free from superstition. This sudden glimpse of Gaston Cheverny
lying ill in a miserable garret in Prague, when I supposed him on the personal staff of Marshal
Maillebois, did not prevent me from taking all possible measures to save that quarter of the
town from burning, and striving to allay the panic. Both I found almost impossible. The old
house blazed like tinder, the flames reddening the moonlit sky. I gave orders to blow up the
houses on each side, in order to save the town. The horrible explosions, the smoke and smell
of powder, the shrieking, terrified people, the soldiers battling with mob and fire--the mob
believing the soldiers to have started the fire--were hideous. I have been in many a worse
place than the market-place of Prague on that bleak November night, but never one which had
a greater outward aspect of horror.

Toward daylight, ashes and ruins replaced the fire, trembling terror and pale exhaustion, the
frantic alarm of the people, and the quarter was saved. Through it all, I had Gaston Cheverny
in my mind. I could not understand how he, an officer in Marshal Maillebois's army, could be
in Prague at all, but I had seen him in the glare of the blazing building as plainly as if
the sun had been at the noon mark.

In the gray of the dawn, I began to investigate concerning Gaston, but he could not be found.
I thought it not strange that in so much danger, terror and confusion he had disappeared for
a time, but I confidently reckoned on his being found within a few days. Next day, I put the
official inquiry on foot, but there was no record of any such person having been in Prague.
It was difficult to account, under any circumstances, for Gaston's being there. Yet, had not
these eyes seen him? It was one more mystery and misery about this man, once the frankest,
freest, most open-hearted of men. It did not lessen those vague and terrible fears which had
haunted me about Francezka.

The next few days were busy enough, and I scarce rested by night or day. A week passed, and,
hearing nothing of Gaston Cheverny, I tried to persuade myself that my eyes had been deceived.
Truly, although I have been a thousand times in places of much greater danger, I do not think
I have ever known greater excitement, or conditions when a man could be more readily deceived
than that midnight in the market-place of Prague. I said this to myself many times. It is strange
how a man will argue with himself to believe a thing which he can not believe, and will silence,
without convincing, himself.

I was revolving these things in my mind one night, about a week afterward, on my way alone
through the narrow, dark unlighted streets, lying black in the shadows of the overhanging houses.
And then there passed across my path, a figure in a ragged black cloak--a figure with the face
of Gaston Cheverny. I followed him, but I seemed to be following a ghost; for in the tangle
of streets and lanes, he was lost to me. I spent two full hours hunting this shade; but had
it been actually a ghost it could not have disappeared more completely.

I went to Count Saxe's quarters. It was then near midnight, and Count Saxe had gone to bed;
but on the table, wide open, with some other letters for me to read, was a letter from Gaston
Cheverny to Count Saxe, dated the very day before the capture of Prague.

So I was deceived. He was not and never had been in Prague. I had been deceived by some chance
resemblance. It was upon events like these that Madame Riano based her absurd belief in second
sight.

But let it not appear that I am a man easily deluded when I declare that from the hour I saw
the man I took for Gaston Cheverny in the burning house at Prague, I knew that Francezka was
in sore distress, and even in need of her poor Babache. Something within me was ever calling--calling,
in Francezka's name--"Come to me!"

There are degrees in these superstitions of the heart. Sometimes they usurp the scepter of
the brain. Then, indeed, are they dangerous and foolish. Again, it is known to be only the
cry of the heart; and the poor, tormented heart waits patiently upon its master, the brain.
So it was with me. Deep as was my yearning to see Francezka, I said no word of it to the most
indulgent of masters, until the time was ripe that I might go. Francezka herself was governed
by the law of common sense; she would not wish me to come to her when it was against my duty.
So I fulfilled all my duty, in spite of the burden of the spirit--the strange, almost irresistible
call for me to leave all and go straight to Francezka, until I could, in honor, ask for leave.

We were settled then in winter quarters. We had heard twice in this time from Gaston Cheverny.
Being near home, in the borders of Hanover, for the winter, he had got leave--so he wrote--and
would spend six weeks at the château of Capello, with Francezka. He wished that Count Saxe
and I might take advantage of the lull in hostilities and come to Capello.

It was when I was in the act of reading this letter that my reserve broke down, and I told
Count Saxe all--all--and that I desired to go to Francezka. And then, for the first time since
I was a little, smooth-cheeked boy, playing in the weedy gardens of the Marais with Adrienne
Lecouvreur, I wept like a woman. Count Saxe sat and looked at me with more than a brother's
tenderness. He knew I was not a coward, for I had led his Uhlans, and what he said to me was this:

"Lose not a moment in going, Babache. It is because you love her so much that you know she
is in distress. I think you would know as much, if it were I instead of Francezka."

Which was true. I can not believe that Count Saxe should need me, and I not know it, were I
at the other end of the world.

And Count Saxe helping and hastening me in every way, as became such a soul as his, I set forth
at once on my journey. It was the latter part of December when I left Prague behind me.

The journey was a terrible one; the season harsh beyond comparison. The ground was deeply covered
with snow, which the wild winds piled in great drifts, in which both men and beasts were sometimes
lost. Rain and sleet alternated with snow. The sun scarcely shone at all. The sufferings of
dumb creatures were dreadful; horses plunged amid the snow, and died in it; the gaunt cattle
froze in the fields; even the birds dropped dead from the icy roofs and trees. I think I never
saw so much misery in any journey I ever made, as in that journey to Capello. Even when I reached
the flat country of the lower Rhine, there was but little amelioration. I traveled as rapidly
as I could, both night and day, but my progress was slow. My eager heart outstripped my laggard
body, and it seemed to me that every hour the urgency of Francezka's call for me grew greater.
I could actually hear that sweet, penetrating voice, now full of agony, crying to me, "Babache!
Babache! Come quickly--quickly, or you will be too late!"

CHAPTER XXXV

WOULD YOU LEAVE ME NOW

I fought my way to Brussels against the elements, and reached there at sunset of the last day
of the year. I had not slept for thirty-six hours, and then it was in the rude cart of a peasant,
jolting over the rough highroad. But sleep had departed from me. Up to that time I had managed
to get a few hours of rest out of every twenty-four, for I was a soldier and knew how to take
hard travel. But if I had been offered the great down bed of Louis le Grand, I could not have
slept on that December night, thank God! Had I remained the night in Brussels--had I preferred
soft slumber to the dumb cry of Francezka's soul to mine--what grief! What remorse! Therefore,
I took horse again at sun-setting, and did not draw rein until I reached Capello, at nine of
the clock.

It was the first time I had seen the place in the icy clutch of winter. I had ever thought
it the cheerfullest spot on earth. Nature was all gaiety at Capello. Now she was in a tragic
mood, but not the less beautiful. The sky was of a deep, dark blue, jeweled with stars in every
part. A radiant, majestic moon rode high, flooding the snowy earth with a pale, unearthly splendor.
The château, white and stately, shone dazzling in this moonlit glow. The bare branches of the
forest covered with frost, were like silver lace. All was cold, still, lonely and sad.

I noticed as I approached the château through the great bare avenue of frosted lindens, that
the windows were not, as usual, lighted up. Two only were illuminated--the windows of the little
yellow saloon, where Francezka spent her evenings when without company.

As ever I drew nearer to Francezka, that need for haste seemed to be more urgent. I dismounted
in the courtyard, and ran, rather than walked up the terrace. Through the window, with its
undrawn curtains, I saw Francezka and Gaston seated together in the yellow saloon.

I had not meant to watch them. I meant to stop and recover myself a little before presenting
myself before them, but I could not keep my eyes away from the scene in the yellow saloon.
I believe most persons have felt the fascination of looking at an interior illuminated with
fire and candle, as one stands without, and so, unconsciously, I stood and watched Francezka
and Gaston Cheverny.

The room presented that charming, luxurious and comfortable air which always distinguished
it. A fire was burning on the hearth, and a table with candles and books on it, was drawn up.
Gaston sat on one side of it, and Francezka on the other. She wore a robe of some white shimmering
stuff, and her rich dark hair was unpowdered. I noticed the little tendrils of hair upon her
milk-white neck. In her lap lay an open book, which she was not reading. She was pallid, and
had no more that joyous loveliness of flesh and blood which had once been hers; but never saw
I more plainly her mysterious and poetic beauty, which shone forth star-like. And one thing
else I saw, and would have seen had it been my first view of her--she had a canker at her heart.

Gaston sat on the other side of the table, looking as usual, handsome and content. He, too,
had a book in his hand, which he was not reading. He was furtively watching Francezka. Francezka
watched the fire.

After a time--I know not how long--Francezka laid her book down softly, went to her open harpsichord,
and sitting before it, played with her usual skill. I recognized the air; it was that old,
old one of Blondel's, O Richard, O mon roi!

Gaston shifted a little in his chair. He had ever showed an indifference to the song, which
once had been so dear to them, and had been so full of meaning for them. There was a look of
uneasiness in his face, and he began for the first time to read attentively, his brows drawn
together, while Francezka's fingers delicately played this quaint air.

Francezka played some other airs, lightly, gracefully, softly, pausing between them, meditating,
with one hand on the keys of the harpsichord, and the other hanging down. The hand that hung
down moved a little, as if in the act of patting a dog's head. I was reminded of poor Bold--it
was as if Francezka were thinking of this lost friend. She gave me the impression of a person
who feels herself alone and debates with herself.

When she ceased to play this fitful soft music, she rose and went to the window which looked
toward the lake. She shaded her face with her hands, so she could see the still, pale glory
of the night, and the lake, lying in melancholy beauty under the soft shining stars. There
was a deep and perfect silence within and without, and it seemed to cast a spell upon Francezka
and upon me, so near together, and she all unknowing.

And then, feeling rather than seeing some one near me, I turned and saw a figure in a black
cloak pass me; the same figure that had passed before me in the shadowy streets of Prague--the
man I thought to be Gaston Cheverny. He walked straight to the great door of the château, and
without knocking, opened it as if he were the master of all there. And then, as I stood unable
to move, with all my faculties concentrated in my eyes, I saw the door of the yellow saloon
open. I saw the real Gaston Cheverny enter. I saw Francezka turn toward the opening door. I
saw the man I had supposed for nearly two years to be Gaston Cheverny rise from his chair--and
he was, in truth, Regnard Cheverny. It was impossible to mistake one for the other, standing
together, face to face. It became a miracle how Regnard had ever managed to deceive his whole
world into thinking him Gaston Cheverny. All the differences between them came out and seemed
to clamor for recognition. The expression of the eye was different; the whole of the actual
man in each was dissimilar; and how this could have been covered up by the mere likeness in
shape, in voice, in feature--no one could tell.

Gaston was Gaston. He was pale and thin, and looked ten years older than he should, but there
was no mistaking him. I know not how I found myself standing on the threshold of the room.
Gaston had advanced to the middle, and held out his arms to Francezka.

"I know all," he cried, "poor, faithful soul! For you there is an unchanging love. There is
nothing to forgive--nothing--nothing!"

Francezka stood as if turned to stone for a moment--one of those moments in which Time seems
no more. Then she moved a little back, averting her face from Gaston, with a look, never to
be forgotten--love, shame, despair--crying aloud from her eyes. But as Gaston spoke, she turned
again, full toward him, and raised both of her white arms.

"Dearest," she cried, in her old, sweet, penetrating voice. "I do not ask why you did not come
before. You could not--you could not come until now!"

At that, Regnard stepped forward, and raised his hand to separate the two.

"Wait," he said to Gaston. "She was your wife for one week. She has been my wife nearly two
years. She shall remain so. I, too, loved her well, from my boyhood--and was it to be expected
that I should let that childish fancy for you stand between her and me, when I thought you dead?"

I think neither Gaston nor Francezka heard him; but suddenly as a bird flies from its perch,
so Francezka flew to Gaston and rested her head upon his breast. Not even Regnard dared to
lay a sacrilegious hand upon her there.

"I have been the most miserable woman on God's earth," she said to Gaston, raising her head,
and looking him full in the face--"and I can not survive this hour. Do not ask me to live--I
can not live. I was thinking, just now, as I sat and played the air we loved so well, that
I must, this very night, seek rest in death--for I suspected the truth only a little while
ago. But, love, this hour atones for much. You know now how I loved you--how I remembered you.
If I was dull of apprehension--if, after seven years, I accepted too quickly the deception
practised on me--well, it was because I loved you so well. But I must depart; there is no place
on earth for me."

For answer Gaston kissed her tenderly.

"Would you leave me now?" he asked. "Have not I, too, loved you and sought you? And shall not
our happiness swallow up our misfortune, and the crimes committed against us, after those crimes
are avenged?"

Then, as calmly as a summer day, he placed Francezka in a chair, and, turning to his brother, said:

"To-night, you or I must die."

"Agreed," replied Regnard.

He opened a cabinet in the room, took out several swords, and, handing them to Gaston, said:

"Choose which one you will die by."

Gaston selected one.

"With this will I kill you," he said.

Neither of them had seen me, although I was in evidence plain enough. I started forward, however,
and grasping Gaston's arm, forced him to look at me.

"Babache," he said, recognizing me instantly. "The world is not big enough for my brother and
for me. It is better to end it now and here. Either let him kill me, or let me kill him; so
I pray you, hands off; and if I am the one to die, take care of Francezka."

I thought, too, that the world could not and ought not to hold them both living, and the sooner
it was settled which should die that night, the better.

Francezka, meanwhile, sat quite still in the chair where she had been placed. Gaston, turning
to her, said, with an air of gentle command:

"Leave. This is no place for you."

"Stay!" cried Regnard violently. "You are to obey my commands, not his."

Francezka, without looking toward Regnard, without a shudder or a tremor, rose. I had thought
she could neither rise nor move nor speak, but there was not the least sign of weakness about
her. She actually stopped and curtsied toward Gaston as she went out. He bowed ceremoniously
in response.

I took her hand and led her out into the vast hall, dimly lighted. She did not speak my name,
but she held on to my hand. In the tempest of her soul she instinctively clung to one whom
she knew to be true. She walked with me steadily across the great hall, and into the Diana
gallery, now dark and cold as a vault. She looked like a specter as her white figure glided
past the mirrors on the walls.

