 "I wish an artist were here
to paint you so; you've no idea how striking you are."

"No, I have not," laughed the other, forgetting to keep still as she spoke, and turning the
face that had been toward the window full upon her companion. The scene that Elizabeth's eyes
had been dwelling upon was worthy of admiration; her enthusiasm had not escaped her in any
word, but her eyes were enraptured with it, and her whole face, warmed with faint reflection
of the inward glow, was beautiful with youth, and thought, and feeling.

"Now you've spoilt it," cried Katie, "now you are merely a nice-looking young lady; you were
beautiful before, perfectly beautiful, like a picture that one can look at, and look at, and
go away filled with, and come back to, and never tire of. The people that see you so worship
you, but then, nobody has a chance to do it. You just sit and don't say much except once in
a while when you wake up, then you are brilliant, but never tender, as you know how to be.
You give people an impression that you are hard. Sometimes I should like to shake you."

Elizabeth laughed.

"That's the way you worship me," she answered. "I suspected it was a strange kind of adoration,
largely made up of snubbing."

"It's not snubbing," retorted Katie, "it is trying to rouse you to what you you might be. But
I am wasting my breath; you don't believe a word I say."

"I should like to believe it," returned the girl, smiling a little sadly. "But even if I did
believe every word of it, it would seem to me a great deal nicer to be like you, beautiful
all the time, and one whom everybody loves. But there's one thing to be said, if it were I
who were beautiful, I could'nt have the pleasure I do in looking at you, and perhaps, after
all, I shouldn't get any more enjoyment out of it."

"Oh, yes, you would," retorted the other, then bit her lips angrily at her inadvertence. A
shrewd smile flitted over Elizabeth's face, but she made no comment, and Katie went on hurriedly
to ask, "What shall we do to amuse ourselves to-day, Betsey?" Another slight movement of the
hearer's lips responded. This name was Katie's special term of endearment, and never used except
when they were alone; no one else ever called her by it.

"I don't know," she said. "Let us sit here as we are doing now. Move your chair nearer the
window and look down on the river. See the blue-black shadows on it. And look at the forests,
how they stretch away with a few clearings here and there. A city behind us, to be sure, a
little city, but before us the forests, and the Indians. I wonder what it all means for us."

"The axe for one, the gun for the other," retorted Katie with a hardness which belief in the
savageness and treachery of the red man had instilled into the age. "The forests mean fortune
to some of us," she added.

"Yes," answered Elizabeth slowly, finding an unsatisfactory element in her companion's summary.

"Do you mean that we shall have to shoot down a whole race? That is dreadful," she added after
a pause.

"You and I have nothing to do with all that," returned Katie.

Elizabeth waited in despair of putting the case as she felt it.

"I was thinking," she said at last, "that if we have a whole land of forests to cut down and
of cities to build up, somehow, everything will be different here from the Old England. I often
wonder what it is to be in this New World. It must be unlike the Old," she repeated.

"I don't wonder," returned Katie, "and that's just what you shouldn't do. Wonder what you're
going to wear to-morrow when we dine at Aunt Faith's, or whether Master Harwin will call this
morning, or Master Waldo, or wonder about something sensible."

"Which means, 'or if it's to be Master Archdale,'" retorted Elizabeth, smiling into the laughing
eyes fixed upon her face, and making them fall at the keenness of her glance, while a brighter
rose than Katie cared to show tinted the creamy skin and made her bend a moment to arrange
the rosette of her slipper. The movement showed her hair in all its perfection, for at this
early hour it had not been tortured into elaborateness, but as she sat in her bedroom talking
with her guest, was loosely coiled to be out of the way, and thus drawn back in its wavy abundance
showed now burnished, and now a darker brown, as the sunlight or the shadow fell upon it.

"He's not always sensible," she answered, lifting her head again with a half defiant gesture,
and smiling. Katie's smile was irresistible, it won her admirers by the score, not altogether
because it gave a glimpse of beautiful teeth, or because her mouth was at its perfection then,
but that it was an expression of childlike abandonment to the spirit of the moment, which charmed
the gay because they sympathized with it and the serious because it was a mood of mind into
which they would be glad to enter. "Stephen has not been quite himself lately, rather stupid,"
and she looked as if she were not unsuspicious of the reason.

"Too many of us admirers, he thinks?" laughed Elizabeth. "For he is bright enough when he takes
the trouble to speak, but generally he doesn't seem to consider any one of sufficient importance
to amuse."

"That is not so," cried Katie, "you are mistaken. But you don't know Stephen very well," she
added. "What a pity that you are not living here, then you would, and then we should have known
each other all our lives, instead of only since we went to school together. What good times
we had at Madam Flamingo's. There you sit, now, and look as meekly reproving as if you had'nt
invented that name for her yourself. It was so good, it has stood by her ever since."

"Did I? I had forgotten it."

"Perhaps, at least, you remember the red shawl that got her the nickname? It was really something
nice,--the shawl, I mean, but the old dame was so ridiculously proud of it and so perpetually
flaunting it, she must have thought it very becoming. We girls were tired of the sight of it.
And one day, when you were provoked with her about something and left her and came into the
schoolroom after hours, you walked up to a knot of us, and with your air of scorn said something
about Madam Flamingo. Didn't it spread like wildfire? Our set will call that venerable dame
'Flamingo' to the end of her days."

"I suppose we shall, but I had no recollection that it was I who gave her the name."

"Yes, you gave it to her," repeated Katie. "You may be very sure I should not have forgotten
it if I had been so clever. Those were happy days for all their petty tribulations," she added
after a pause.

Elizabeth looked at her sitting there meditative.

"I should think these were happy days for you, Katie. What more can you want than you have now?"

"Oh, the roc's eggs, I suppose," answered the girl. "No, seriously, I am pretty likely to get
what I want most. I am happy enough, only not absolutely happy quite yet."

"Why not?"

"Our good minister would say it was not intended for mortals."

"If I felt like being quite content I should not give it up because somebody else said it was
too much for me."

"Oh, well," said Katie, laughing, "it has nothing to do with our good Parson Shurtleff, anyway."

"I thought not. What, then?"

The other did not answer, but sat looking out of the window with eyes that were not studying
the landscape. Whether her little troubles dissolved into the cloudless sky, like mist too
thin to take shape, or whether she preferred to keep her perplexities to herself is uncertain,
but when she spoke it was about another reminiscence of school days.

"Do you remember that morning Stephen came to see me?" she began. "Madam thought at first that
Master Archdale must be my father, and she gave a most gracious assent to my request to go
to walk with him. I was dying of fun all the time, I could scarcely keep my face straight;
then, when she caught a glimpse of him as we were going out of the hall, she said in a dubious
tone, 'Your brother, I presume, Mistress Archdale?' But I never heard a word. I was near the
street door and I put myself the other side of it without much delay. So did Stephen. And we
went off laughing. He said I was a wicked little cousin, and he spelled it 'cozen;' but he
didn't seem to mind my wickedness at all." There was a pause, during which Katie looked at
her smiling friend, and her own face dimpled bewitchingly. "This is exactly what you would
have done, Elizabeth," she said. "You would have heard that tentative remark of Madam's, of
course you would, and you would have stood still in the hall and explained that Stephen was
your cousin, instead of your brother, and have lost your walk beyond a doubt, you know the
Flamingo. Now, I was just as good as you would have been, only, I was wiser. I, too, told Madam
that he was my cousin, but I waited until I came home to do it. The poor old lady could not
help herself then; it was impossible to take back my fun, and she could not punish me, because
she had given me permission to go, nor could she affirm that I heard her remark, for it was
made in an undertone. There was nothing left for her but to wrap her illustrious shawl about
her and look dignified." "Do you think Master Harwin will come to-day?" Katie asked a few moments
later, "and Master Waldo? I hope they will all three be here together; it will be fun, they
can entertain each other, they are so fond of one another."

"Katie! Katie!"

The girl broke into a laugh.

"Oh, yes, I remember," she said, "Stephen is your property."

"Don't," cried Elizabeth, with sudden gravity and paleness in her face. "I think it was wicked
in me to jest about such a sacred thing. Let me forget it."

"I wont tease you if you really care. But if it was wicked, it was a great deal more my doing,
and Master Waldo's, than your's or Stephen's. We wanted to see the fun. Your great fault, Elizabeth,
is that you vex yourself too much about little things. Do you know it will make you have wrinkles?"

This question was put with so much earnestness that Elizabeth laughed heartily.

"One thing is sure," she said, "I shall not remain ignorant of my failings through want of
being told them while I'm here. It would be better to go home."

"Only try it!" cried Katie, going to her and kissing her. "But now, Elizabeth, I want to tell
you something in all seriousness. Just listen to me, and profit by it, if you can. I've found
it out for myself. The more you laugh at other people's absurdities the fewer of your own will
be noticed, because, you see, it implies that you are on the right standpoint to get a review
of other people."

"That sounds more like eighty than eighteen."

"Elizabeth, it is the greatest mistake in the world, I mean just that, to keep back all your
wisdom until you get to be eighty. What use will it be to you then? All you can do with it
will be to see how much more sensibly you might have acted. That's what will happen to you,
my dear, if you don't look out. But at eighteen--I am nineteen--everything is before you, and
you want to know how to guide your life to get all the best things you can out of it without
being wickedly selfish--at least I do. Your aspirations, I suppose, are fixed upon the forests
and the Indian, and problems concerning the future of the American Colonies. But I'm more reverent
than you, I think the Lord is able to take care of those."

Elizabeth looked vaguely troubled by the fallacy which she felt in this speech without being
quite willing or able to bring it to light.

"But, remember, I was twenty-one my last birthday," she answered. "I ought to take a broader
view of things."

"On the contrary, you're getting to be an old maid. You should consider which of your suitors
you want, and say 'yes' to him on the spot. By the way, what has become of your friend, the
handsome Master Edmonson?"

Elizabeth colored.

"I don't know," she answered. "Father has heard from him since he went away, so I suppose that
he is well."

"And he has not written to you?"

"No, he has only sent a message." Then, after a pause, "He said that he was coming back in
the autumn."

"I hope so," cried Katie, "he is a most fascinating man, and of such family! Stephen was speaking
of him the other day. He was very attentive, was he not, Betsey?"

"Ye-es, I suppose so. But there was something that I fancied papa did not like."

"I'm so sorry," cried Katie. She rose, and crossing the little space between herself and her
friend, dropped upon the footstool at Elizabeth's feet, and laying her arms in the girl's lap
and resting her chin upon them, looked up and added, "Tell me all about it, my dear."

"There is nothing to tell," answered Elizabeth, caressing the beautiful hair and looking into
the eyes that had tears of sympathy in them.

"I was afraid something had gone wrong, afraid that you would care."

Elizabeth sat thinking.

"I don't know," she said slowly at last, "I don't know whether I should really care or not
if I never saw him again."

Her companion looked at her a moment in silence, and when she began to speak it was about something
else.

CHAPTER IV.

GIRDING ON THE HARNESS.

Later that same morning a gentleman calling upon Mistress Katie Archdale was told that he would
find her with friends in the garden. Walking through the paths with a leisurely step which
the impatience of his mood chafed against, he came upon a picture that he never forgot.

Great stretches of sunshine lay on the garden and in it brilliant beds of flowers glowed with
their richest lights, poppies folded their gorgeous robes closely about them, Arab fashion,
to keep out the heat; hollyhocks stood in their stateliness flecked with changing shadows from
the aspen tree near by. Beds of tiger lilies, pinks, larkspur, sweetwilliams, canterbury bells,
primroses, gillyflowers, lobelia, bloomed in a luxuriance that the methodical box which bordered
them could not restrain. But the garden was by no means a blaze of sunshine, for ash trees,
maples, elms, and varieties of the pine were there. Trumpet-vines climbed on the wall, and
overtopping that, caught at trellises prepared to receive them, and formed screens of shadows
that flickered in every breeze and changed their places with the changing sun. But it was only
with a passing glance that the visitor saw these things, his eyes were fixed upon an arbor
at the end of the garden; it was covered with clematis, while two great elms met overhead at
its entrance and shaded the path to it for a little distance. Under these elms stood a group
of young people. He was unannounced, and had opportunity without being himself perceived, to
scan this little group as he went forward. His expression varied with each member of it, but
showed an interest of some sort in each. Now it was full of passionate delight; then it changed
as his look fell upon a tall young man with dark eyes and a bearing that in its most gracious
moments seemed unable to lose a touch of haughtiness, but whose face now was alive with a restful
joy. The gazer, as he perceived this happiness, so wanting in himself, scowled with a bitter
hate and looked instantly toward another of the party, this time with an expression of triumph.
At the fourth and last member of the group his glance though scowling, was contemptuous; but
the receiver was as unconscious of contempt as he felt undeserving of it. From him the gazer's
eyes returned to the person at whom he had first looked. She was standing on the step of the
arbor, an end of the clematis vine swaying lightly back and forth over her head, and almost
touching her bright hair which was now towered high in the fashion of the day. She was holding
a spray of the vine in her hand. She had fastened one end in the hair of a young lady who stood
beside her, and was now bringing the other about her neck, arranging the leaves and flowers
with skilful touches. Three men, including the new-comer, watched her pretty air of absorption,
and the deftness of her taper fingers, the sweep of her dark lashes on her cheek as from the
height of her step she looked down at her companion, the curves of her beautiful mouth that
at the moment was daintly holding a pin with which the end of the spray was to be fastened
upon the front of the other's white dress. It was certainly effective there. Yet none of the
three men noticed this, or saw that between the two girls the question as to beauty was a question
of time, that while the one face was blooming now in the perfection of its charm, the charm
of the other was still in its calyx. The adorner intuitively felt something of this. Perhaps
she was not the less fond of her friend that the charms she saw in her were not patent to everybody.
Bring her forward as much as she might, Katie felt that Elizabeth Royal would never be a rival.
She even shrank from this kind of prominence into which Katie's play was bringing her now.
She had been taken in hand at unawares and showed an impatience that if the other were not
quick, would oblige her to leave the work unfinished.

"There," cried Katie, at last giving the leaves a final pat of arrangement, "that looks well,
don't you think so, Master Waldo?"

"Good morning, Mistress Archdale," broke in a voice before Waldo could answer. "And you, Mistress
Royal," bowing low to her. "After our late hours last night, permit me to felicitate you upon
your good health this morning, and--" he was about to add, "your charming appearance," but
something in the girl's eyes as she looked full at him held back the words, and for a moment
ruffled his smooth assurance. But as he recovered himself and turned to salute the gentlemen,
the smile on his lips had triumph through its vexation.

"My proud lady, keep your pride a little longer," he said to himself. And as he bowed to Stephen
Archdale with a dignity as great as Stephen's own, he was thinking: "My morning in that hot
office has not been in vain. I know your weak point now, my lofty fellow, and it is there that
I will undermine you. You detest business, indeed! John Archdale feels that with his only son
in England studying for the ministry he needs a son-in-law in partnership with him. The thousands
which I have been putting into his business this morning are well spent, they make me welcome
here. Yes, your uncle needs me, Stephen Archdale, for your clever papa is not always brotherly
in his treatment, he has more than once brought heavy losses upon the younger firm. It's a
part of my pleasure in prospect that now I shall be able to checkmate him in such schemes,
perhaps to bring back a little of the loss upon the shoulders of his heir. Ah, I am safer from
you than you dream." He turned to Waldo, and as the two men bowed, they looked at one another
steadily. Each was remembering their conversation the night before over some Bordeaux in Waldo's
room, for they were staying at the same inn and often spent an hour together. They had drunk
sparingly, but, just returned from their sail, each was filled with Katie Archdale's beauty,
and each had spoken out his purpose plainly, Waldo with an assurance that, if it savored a
little of conceit, was full of manliness, the other with a half-smothered fierceness of passion
that argued danger to every obstacle in its way.

"You've come at the very right moment, Master Harwin," broke in Katie's unconscious voice,
and she smiled graciously, as she had a habit of doing at everybody; "We were talking about
you not two minutes ago."

"Then I am just in time to save my character."

"Don't be too sure about that," returned Miss Royal.

Waldo laughed, and Katie exchanged glances with him, and smiled mischievously.

"No, don't be too sure; it will depend upon whether you say 'yes,' or 'no,' to my question.
We were wondering something about you."

Harwin's heart sank, though he returned her smile and her glance with interest. For there were
questions she might ask which would inconvenience him, but they should not embarrass him.

"We were wondering," pursued Katie, "if you had ever been presented. Have you?"

As the sun breaks out from a heavy cloud, the light returned to Harwin's blue eyes.

"Yes," he said, "four years ago. I went to court with my uncle, Sir Rydal Harwin, and his majesty
was gracious enough to nod in answer to my profound reverence."

"It was a very brilliant scene, I am sure, and very interesting."

"Deeply interesting," returned Harwin with all the traditional respect of an Englishman for
his sovereign. Archdale's lip curled a trifle at what seemed to him obsequiousness, but Harwin
was not looking at him.

"Stephen has been," pursued Katie, "and he says it was very fine, but for all that he does
not seem to care at all about it. He says he would rather go off for a day's hunting any time.
The ladies looked charming, he said, and the gentlemen magnificent; but he was bored to death,
for all that."

"In order to appreciate it fully," returned Archdale, "it would be necessary that one should
be majesty." He straightened himself as he spoke, and looked at Harwin with such gravity that
the latter, meeting the light of his eyes, was puzzled whether this was jest or earnest, until
Miss Royal's laugh relieved his uncertainty. Katie laid her hand on the speaker's arm and shook
it lightly.

"You told me I should be sure to enjoy it," she said. "Now, what do you mean?"

"Ah! but you would be queen," said Harwin, "queen in your own right, a divine right of beauty
that no one can resist."

Katie looked at him, disposed for a moment to be angry, but her love of admiration could not
resist the worship of his eyes, and the lips prepared to pout curved into a smile not less
bewitching that the brightness of anger was still in her cheeks. Archdale and Waldo turned
indignant glances on the speaker, but it was manifestly absurd to resent a speech that pleased
the object of it, and that each secretly felt would not have sounded ill if he had made it
himself. Elizabeth looked from Katie to Harwin with eyes that endorsed his assertion, and as
the latter read her expression his scornful wonder in the boat returned.

"Why are we all standing outside in the heat?" cried the hostess. "Let us go into the arbor,
there is plenty of room to move about there, we have had a dozen together in it many a time."
She passed in under the arch as she spoke, and the others followed her. There in her own way
which was not so very witty or wise, and yet was very charming, she held her little court,
and the three men who had been in love with her at the beginning of the hour were still more
in love at the end of it. And Elizabeth who watched her with an admiration as deep as their's,
if more tranquil, did not wonder that it was so. Katie did not forget her, nor did the gentlemen,
or at least two of them, forget to be courteous, but if she had known what became of the spray
of clematis which being in the way as she turned her head, she had soon unfastened and let
slip to the ground, she would not have wondered, nor would she have cared. If she had seen
Archdale's heel crush it unheedingly as he passed out of the arbor, the beat of her pulses
would never have varied.

CHAPTER V.

ANTICIPATIONS.

It was early in December. The months had brought serious changes to all but one of the group
that the August morning had found in Mr. Archdale's garden. Two had disappeared from the scene
of their defeat, and to two of them the future seemed opening up vistas of happiness as deep
as the present joy. Elizabeth Royal alone was a spectator in the events of the past months,
and even in her mind was a questioning that was at least wonderment, if not pain.

Kenelm Waldo was in the West Indies, trying to escape from his pain at Katie Archdale's refusal,
but carrying it everywhere with him, as he did recollections of her; to have lost them would
have been to have lost his memory altogether.

Ralph Harwin also had gone. His money was still in the firm of John Archdale & Co., which it
had made one of the richest in the Colonies; its withdrawal was now to be expected at any moment,
for Harwin did not mean to return, and Archdale, while endeavoring to be ready for this, saw
that it would cripple him. Harwin had been right in believing that he should make himself very
useful and very acceptable to Katie's father. For Archdale who was more desious of his daughter's
happiness than of anything else in the world, was disappointed that this did not lie in the
direction which, on the whole, would have been for his greatest advantage. Harwin and he could
have done better for Katie in the way of fortune than Stephen Archdale with his distaste for
business would do. The Archdale connection had always been a dream of his, until lately when
this new possibility had superseded his nephew's interest in his thoughts. There was an address
and business keenness about Harwin that, if Stephen possessed at all, was latent in him. The
Colonel was wealthy enough to afford the luxury of a son who was only a fine gentleman. Stephen
was a good fellow, he was sure, and Katie would be happy with him. And yet--but even these
thoughts left him as he leaned back in his chair that day, sitting alone after dinner, and
a mist came over his eyes as he thought that in less than a fortnight his home would no longer
be his little daughter's.

"It will be all right," he said to himself with that sigh of resignation with which we yield
to the inevitable, as if there were a certain choice and merit in doing it. "It is well that
the affairs of men are in higher hands than ours." John Archdale's piety was of the kind that
utters itself in solitude, or under the breath.

Katie at the moment was upstairs with her mother examining a package of wedding gear that had
arrived that day. She had no hesitation as to whom her choice should have been. Yet, as she
stood holding a pair of gloves, measuring the long wrists on her arm and then drawing out the
fingers musingly, it was not of Stephen that she was thinking, or of him that she spoke at
last, as she turned away to lay down the gloves and take up a piece of lace.

"Mother," she said, "I do sometimes feel badly for Master Harwin; he is the only man in all
the world that I ever had anything like fear of, and now and then I did of him, such a fierceness
would come over him once in a while, not to me, but about me, I know, about losing me. He was
terribly in earnest. Stephen never gets into these moods, he is always kind and lovable, just
as he has been to me as far back as I can remember, only, of course more so now."

"But things have gone differently with him and with poor Master Harwin," answered Mrs. Archdale.
"If you had said 'no' to Stephen, you would have seen the dark moods in him, too."

The young girl looked at her mother and smiled, and blushed a little in a charming acknowledgment
of feminine power to sway the minds of the sterner half of humanity. Then she grew thoughtful
again, not even flattery diverting her long from her subject.

