"Where is thy patriotism! Thou art letting some of the most unique British birds become extinct!"
"Yes, and thou lettest Christmas cards be made in Germany, and thou deridest Whistler, and
refusest to read Dod Grile, and thou lettest books be published with the sheets pinned instead
of sewn. And the way thou neglectest Coleridge's grave----"

"Coleridge's grave?" interrupted a sad-eyed enthusiast. "Why, thou hast put no stone at all
to mark where James Thomson lies!"

"Thou Hun, thou Vandal!" shrieked a fresh contingent of voices in defiance of the late Professor
Freeman. "Thou hast allowed the Emanuel Hospital to be knocked down, thou hast whitewashed
the oaken ceiling of King Charles's room at Dartmouth, and threatened to destroy the view from
Richmond Hill. Thou hast smashed cathedral windows, or scratched thy name on them, hast pulled
down Roman walls, and allowed commons to be inclosed. Thou coverest the Lake District with
advertisements of pills, and the blue heaven itself with sky-signs; and in thy passion for
cheap and nasty pictorial journalism thou art allowing the art of wood-engraving to die out,
even as thou acceptest photogravures instead of etchings."

I cowered before their wrath, while renewed cries of "Thou art responsible! Thou! Thou!" resounded
from all sides.

"A pretty Christian thou art!" exclaimed another voice in unthinking vituperation. "Thou decimatest
savage tribes with rum and Maxim guns, thou makest money by corrupting the East with opium.
Thou allowest the Armenians to be done to death, and thou wilt not put a stop to child-marriages
in India."

"But for thee I should have been alive to-day," broke in a venerable spirit hovering near the
ceiling. "If thou hadst refused to sell poison except in specially shaped bottles----"

"What canst thou expect of a man who allows anybody to carry firearms?" interrupted another voice.

"Or who fills his newspaper with divorce cases?"

"Is it any wonder the rising generation is cynical, and the young maiden of fifteen has ceased
to be bashful?"

"Shame on thee!" hissed the chorus, and advanced upon me so threateningly that I seized my
hat and rushed from the room. But a burly being with a Blue Book blocked my way.

"Where didst thou get that hat?" he cried. "Doubtless from some sweating establishment. And
those clothes; didst thou investigate where they were made?  didst thou inquire how much thy
tailor paid his hands?  didst thou engage an accountant to examine his books?"

"I--I am so busy," I stammered feebly.

"Shuffler! How knowest thou thou art not spreading to the world the germs of scarlet fever
and typhoid picked up in the sweaters' dens?"

"What cares he?" cried a tall, thin man, with a slight stoop and gold spectacles. "Does he
not poison the air every day with the smoke of his coal fires?"

"Pison the air!" repeated a battered, blear-eyed reprobate. "He pisoned my soul. He ruined
me with promiskus charity. Whenever I was stoney-broke 'e give me doles in aid, 'e did. 'E
wos werry bad to me, 'e wos. 'E destroyed my self-respeck, druv me to drink, broke up my home,
and druv my darters on the streets."

"This is what comes of undisciplined compassion," observed the gold-spectacled gentleman, glowering
at me. "The integrity and virtue of a whole family sacrificed to the gratification of thy altruistic
emotions!"

"Stand out of the way!" I cried to the burly man; "I wish to leave my own house."

"And carry thy rudeness abroad?" he retorted indignantly. "Perchance thou wouldst like to go
to the Continent, and swagger through Europe clad in thy loud-patterned checks and thine insular
self-sufficiency."

I tried to move him out of the way by brute force, and we wrestled, and he threw me. I heard
myself strike the floor with a thud.

Rubbing my eyes, instead of my back, I discovered that I was safe in my reading-chair, and
that it was the lady novelist's novel that had made the noise. I picked it up, but I still
seemed to see the reproachful eyes of a thousand tormentors, and hear their objurgations. Yet
I had none of the emotions of Scrooge, no prickings of conscience, no ferment of good resolutions.
Instead, I felt a wave of bitterness and indignation flooding my soul.

"I will not be responsible for the universe!" I cried to the ceiling. "I am sick of the woman
question, and the problem of man makes my gorge rise. Is there one question in the world that
can really be settled? No, not one, except by superficial thinkers. Just as the comprehensive
explanation of 'the flower in the crannied wall' is the explanation of the whole universe,
so every question is but a thin layer of ice over infinite depths. You may touch it lightly,
you may skate over it; but press it at all, and you sink into bottomless abysses. The simplest
interrogation is a doorway to chaos, to endless perspectives of winding paths perpetually turning
upon themselves in a blind maze. Suppose one is besought to sign a petition against capital
punishment. A really conscientious and logical person, pursuing truth after the manner recommended
by Descartes, and professed by Huxley, could not settle this question for himself without going
into the endless question of Free-will versus Necessity, and studying the various systems of
philosophy and ethics. Murder may be due to insane impulse: Insanity must therefore be studied.
Moreover, ought not hanging to be abolished in cases of murder and reserved for more noxious
crimes, such as those of fraudulent directors? This opens up new perspectives and new lines
of study. The whole theory of Punishment would also have to be gone into: should it be restrictive,
or revengeful, or reformative? (See Aristotle, Bentham, Owen, etc.) Incidentally great tracts
of the science of Psychology are involved. And what right have we to interfere with our fellow-creatures
at all? This opens up the vast domains of Law and Government, and requires the perusal of Montesquieu,
Bodin, Rousseau, Mill, etc., etc. Sociology would also be called in to determine the beneficent
or maleficent influence of the death-punishment upon the popular mind; and statistics would
be required to trace the operation of the systems of punishment in various countries. History
would be consulted to the same effect. The sanctity of human life being a religious dogma,
the religions of the world would have to be studied, to see under what conditions it has been
thought permissible to destroy life. One ought not to rely on translations: Confucius should
be read in Chinese, the Koran in Arabic, and the few years spent in the acquisition of Persian
would be rewarded by a first-hand familiarity with the Zend Avesta. The Old Testament enjoins
capital punishment. On what grounds, then, if one is leaning the other way, may a text be set
aside that seems to settle the matter positively?  Here comes in the vast army of Bible commentators
and theologians. But perhaps the text is of late origin, interpolated. The Dutch and German
savants rise in their might, with their ingenious theories and microscopic scholarship. But
there are other scientists who bid us not heed the Bible at all, because it contradicts the
latest editions of their primers. Is, then, science strictly accurate? To answer this you must
have a thorough acquaintance with biology, geology, astronomy, besides deciding for yourself
between the conflicting views at nearly every point. By the time you have made up your mind
as to whether capital punishment should be abolished, it has passed out of the statute-book,
and you are dead, or mad, or murdered.

"But were this the only question a man has to settle in his short span of years, he might cheerfully
engage in its solution. But life bristles with a hundred questions equally capital, and with
a thousand-and-one minor problems on which he is expected to have an opinion, and about which
he is asked at one time or other, if only at dinner."

At this moment the Poet who shares my chambers came in--later than he should have done--and
interrupted my soliloquy. But I was still hot, and enlisted his interest in my vision and my
apologia, and began drawing up a list of the questions, in which after a while he became so
interested that he started adding to it. Hours flew like minutes, and only the splitting headache
we both brought upon ourselves drove us to desist. Here is our first rough list of the questions
that confront the modern man--a disorderly, deficient, and tautological list, no doubt, to
which any reader can add many hundred more.

    VEXED QUESTIONS

    Queen Mary and Bothwell. Shakespeare and Bacon. Correct
    transliteration of Greek; pronunciation of Latin. Sunday opening of
    museums; of theatres. The English Sunday; Bank Holiday. Darwinism. Is
    there spontaneous creation? or spontaneous combustion? The germ
    theory; Pasteur's cures; Mattei's cures; Virchow's cell theory. Unity
    of Homer; of the Bible. Dickens v. Thackeray. Shall we ever fly? or
    steer balloons? The credit system; the discount system.
    Impressionism, decadence, Japanese art, the plein air school.
    Realism v. romance; Gothic v. Greek art. Russian fiction, Dutch,
    Bulgarian, Norwegian, American, etc., etc.: opinion of every novel
    ever written, of every school, in every language (you must read them
    in the original); ditto of every opera and piece of music, with
    supplementary opinions about every vocalist and performer; ditto of
    every play, with supplementary opinions about every actor, dancer,
    etc.; ditto of every poem; ditto of every picture ever painted, with
    estimates of every artist in every one of his manners at every stage
    of his development and decisions as to which pictures are not
    genuine; also of every critic of literature, drama, art, and music
    (in all of which departments certain names are equal to an appalling
    plexus of questions--Wagner, Ibsen, Meredith, Browning, Comte,
    Goethe, Shakespeare, Dante, Degas, Rousseau, Tolstoi, Maeterlinck,
    Strindberg, Zola, Whistler, Leopardi, Emerson, Carlyle, Swedenborg,
    Rabelais). Socialism, its various schools, its past and its future;
    Anarchism: bombs. Labour questions: the Eight Hours' Day, the
    Unemployed, the Living Wage, etc., etc. Mr. Gladstone's career. Shall
    members of Parliament be paid? Chamberlain's position; ditto for
    every statesman in every country, to-day and in all past ages. South
    Africa, Rhodes, Captain Jim. The English girl v. the French or the
    American. Invidious comparisons of every people from every point of
    view, physical, moral, intellectual, and aesthetic. Vizetelly.
    Vivisection. First love v. later love; French marriage system v.
    the English. The corrupt choruses in the Greek dramas (also in modern
    burlesque--with the question of the Church and Stage Guild, Zaeo's
    back, the County Council, etc.). How to make London beautiful. Fogs.
    Bi-metallism. Secondary Education. Volunteer or conscript? Anonymity
    in journalism. Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, and Mohammedanism:
    their mutual superiorities, their past and their future. Plato,
    Spinoza, Kant, Hegel, and all philosophers and philosophies. The
    Independent Theatre. The origin of language, Where do the Aryans come
    from? Was Mrs. Maybrick guilty? Same question for every great
    murderer. The Tichborne case, and every other cause celebre,
    including divorce cases. Crime and punishment. Music-hall songs.
    Heredity: are acquired qualities inherited? Is tobacco a mistake? Is
    drink? Is marriage? Is the high hat? Polygamy; the social evil. Are
    the planets inhabited? Is the English concert pitch too high? The
    divided skirt. The antiquity of man. Geology: is the story of the
    rocks short, or long, or true? Geology v. Genesis; Genesis v.
    Kuenen. Was Pope a poet? Was Whitman? Was Poe a drunkard, or Griswold
    a liar? Was Hamlet mad? Was Blake? Is waltzing immoral? Is humour
    declining? Is there a modern British drama? Corporal punishment in
    schools. Compulsory vaccination. What shall we do with our daughters?
    or our sons?  or our criminals? or our paupers? or ourselves? Female
    franchise. Republicanism. Which is the best soap? or tooth-powder? Is
    Morris's printing really good? Is the race progressing? Is our navy
    fit? Should dynamite be used in war? or in peace? What persons should
    be buried in Westminster Abbey? Origin of every fairy-tale. Who made
    our proverbs and ballads? Cold baths v. hot or Turkish. Home Rule.
    Should the Royal Academy be abolished? and who should be the next
    R.A.? Should there be an Academy of Literature? or a Channel Tunnel?
    Was De Lesseps to blame? Should we not patronise English
    watering-places? Should there be pianos in board schools? or
    theology? Authors and publishers; artists and authors. Is literature
    a trade? Should pauper aliens be admitted? or pauper couples
    separated? Bank Holiday. Irving v. Tree. The world's politics,
    present, future, and even past--retrospective questions being
    constantly re-agitated: as, Should the American slaves have been
    emancipated? or Was the French Revolution a Folly? Apropos, which
    is the best history of it? Who is the rightful Queen of England? Is
    cycling injurious to the cyclist? or the public? Who was the Man in
    the Iron Mask? Is the Stock Exchange immoral? What is influenza?
    Ought we to give cabmen more than their fare? Tips generally. Should
    dogs be muzzled? Have we a right to extend our empire? or to keep it?
    Should we federate it? Are there ghosts? Is spiritualism a fraud? Is
    theosophy? Was Madame Blavatsky? Was Jezebel a wretch, or a
    Hellenist? The abuse of the quarantine. Should ladies ride astride?
    Amateurs v. professionals in sports. Is prize-fighting beneficial?
    Is trial by jury played out? The cost of law: Chancery. Abuses of the
    Universities. The Cambridge Spinning House. Compulsory Greek. The
    endowment of research. A teaching university in London. Is there a
    sea-serpent? Servants v. mistresses. Shall the Jews have Palestine?
    Classical v. modern side in schools. Should we abolish the
    censorship of plays? or fees? or found a dramatic academy? or a State
    theatre? Should gambling be legal? Should potatoes be boiled in their
    skins? should dynamiters? Should newspapers publish racing tips? or
    divorce cases? or comment? The New Journalism. What is the best ninth
    move in the Evans gambit? Would Morphy have been a first-class
    chess-player to-day? Is the Steinitz gambit sound? Do plants dream?
    Ought we to fill up income-tax papers accurately? Shelley and Harriet
    and Mary. Swift and Vanessa and Stella. Lord and Lady Byron. Did Mrs.
    Carlyle deserve it? The limits of biography; of photography in
    painting; of the spot-stroke in billiards. Did Shakespeare hold
    horses? Should girls be brought up like boys, or boys like girls, or
    both like one another? Are animals automata? Have they reason? or do
    they live without reason? Will Brighton A's fall? or Peruvians rise?
    Is it cruel to cage birds and animals? What is the best breed of
    horses? Did Wellington say "Up, Guards, and at 'em"? Cremation v.
    Burial. Should immoral men be allowed to retain office? Is suicide
    immoral? Opinion of the character of Elizabeth, Parnell, Catherine,
    Cleopatra, Rousseau, Jack the Ripper, Semiramis, Lucrezia Borgia,
    etc., etc. The present state of the Libel Law; and of the Game Laws.
    Is vegetarianism higher? or healthier? Do actors feel their parts?
    Should German type be abolished? or book-edges cut? or editions
    artificially limited? or organ-grinders? How about
    church-and-muffin-bells? Peasant proprietorship. Deer or Highlanders?
    Were our ancestors taller than we? Is fruit or market-gardening or
    cattle-farming more profitable? Dutch v. Italian gardening. What is
    an etching? Do dreams come true? Is freemasonry a fraud? or
    champagne? are Havanas? Best brand of whiskey? Ought Building and
    Friendly Societies to be supervised? Smoking in theatres. Should
    gentlemen pay ladies' cab-fares? Genius and insanity. Are cigarettes
    poisonous? Is luxury a boon? Thirteen at table, and all other
    superstitions--are they foolish? Why young men don't marry. Shall we
    ever reach the Pole? How soon will England and the States be at war?
    The real sites and people in Thackeray's novels. A universal penny
    post? Cheap telegrams and telephones? Is the Bank of England safe?
    Are the planets inhabited? Should girls have more liberty? Should
    they propose? or wear crinolines? Why not have an unlimited paper
    currency? or a decimal system and coinage? or a one-pound note?
    Should we abolish the Lords? or preserve the Commons? Why not
    euthanasia? Should dramatic critics write plays? Who built the
    Pyramids? Are the English the Lost Ten Tribes? Should we send
    missions to the heathen? How long will our coal hold out? Who
    executed Charles I.? Are the tablets of Tel-el-Amarna trustworthy?
    are hieroglyphic readers? Will war ever die? or people live to a
    hundred? The best moustache-forcer, bicycle, typewriter, and system
    of shorthand or of teaching the blind? Was Sam Weller possible? Who
    was the original of Becky Sharp? Of Dodo? Does tea hurt? Do
    gutta-percha shoes? or cork soles? Shall we disestablish the church?
    or tolerate a reredos in St. Paul's? Is Euclid played out? Is there a
    fourth dimension of space? Which is the real old Curiosity Shop? Is
    the Continental man better educated than the Briton? Why can't we
    square the circle? or solve equations to the nth degree? or
    colour-print in England? What is the use of South Kensington? Is
    paraffin good for baldness? or eucalyptus for influenza? How many
    elements are there? Should cousins marry? or the House be adjourned
    on Derby Day? Do water-colours fade? Will the ether theory live? or
    Stanley's reputation? Is Free Trade fair? Is a Free Press? Is
    fox-hunting cruel? or pigeon-shooting? How about the Queen's
    staghounds? Should not each railway station bear its name in big
    letters? and have better refreshments? Should we permit sky-signs?
    Limits of advertisement. Preservation of historic buildings and
    beautiful views v. utilitarianism. Is the coinage ugly? Should we
    not get letters on Sunday? Who really wrote the "Marseillaise"? Are
    examinations any real test? Promotion in the Army or the Civil
    Service. Is logic or mathematics the primal science? and what is the
    best system of symbolic logic? Should curates be paid more and
    archbishops less? Should postmen knock? or combine? Are they under
    military regime? or underpaid? Should Board School children be taught
    religion? The future of China and Japan. Is Anglo-Indian society
    immoral? Style or matter? Have we one personality or many?--with a
    hundred other questions of psychology and ethics. A graduated income
    tax--with a hundred other questions of political economy. Asphalt for
    horses. Will the French republic endure? Will America have an
    aristocracy? Shall Welsh perish? Is Platonic love possible? Did
    Shakespeare write "Coriolanus"? Is there a skull in Holbein's
    "Ambassadors"? What is the meaning of Dryden's line, "He was and is
    the Captain of the Test"? or of the horny projection under the left
    wing of the sub-parasite of the third leg of a black-beetle? Was Orme
    poisoned? Are there fresh-water jelly-fishes? Is physiognomy true? or
    phrenology? or graphology? or cheiromancy? If so, what are their
    laws? Opinions on Guelphs and Ghibellines, fasting displays,
    infanticide, the genealogy of the peerage, the origin of public-house
    signs, Siberia, the author of Junius, of the Sibylline Books,
    werewolves, dyeing one's hair, coffin-ships, standing armies, the
    mediaeval monasteries, Church Brotherhoods, state insurance of the
    poor, promiscuous almsgiving, the rights of animals, the C. D. Acts,
    the Kernoozer Club, emigration, book-plates, the Psychical Society,
    Kindergarten, Henry George, Positivism, Chevalier's Coster,
    colour-blindness, Total Abstinence, Arbitration, the best hundred
    books, Local Option, Women's Rights, the Wandering Jew, the Flying
    Dutchman, the Neanderthal skull, the Early Closing movement, the
    Prince of Wales, and the Tonic Sol-fa notation. Is there an English
    hexameter? Is a perfect translation impossible? Will the coloured
    races conquer? Is consumption curable? Is celibacy possible? Can
    novels be really dramatised? Is the French school of acting superior
    to ours? Should literary men be offered peerages? or refuse them?
    Should quack-doctors be prosecuted? Should critics practise without a
    license? Are the poor happier or unhappier than the rich? or is Paley
    right? Did Paley steal his celebrated watch? Did Milton steal from
    Vondel? Is the Salon dead in England? Should duelling be revived?
    What is the right thing in dados, hall-lamps, dressing-gowns, etc.?
    Should ladies smoke? Is there a Ghetto in England? Anti-Semitism. Why
    should London wait? or German waiters? Mr. Stead's revival of
    pilgrimages. Is Grimm's Law universal? The abuses of the Civil
    Service; of the Pension List. Dr. Barnardo. Grievances of
    match-girls; of elementary teachers. Are our police reliable? Is
    Stevenson's Scotch accurate? Is our lifeboat service efficient? The
    Eastern Question. What is an English fairy-tale? What are the spots
    on the sun? Have they anything to do with commercial crises? Should
    we spoil the Court if we spared the Black Rod? or the City if we
    spared the Lord Mayor? Is chloroforming dangerous? Should armorial
    bearings be taxed? or a tradesman's holiday use of his cart? Should
    classical texts be Bowdlerised for school-boys? Is the confessional
    of value? Is red the best colour for a soldier's uniform or for a
    target? Will it rain to-morrow? Ought any one to carry firearms? Do
    we permit the cancan on the English stage? or aerial flights without
    nets? Where are the lost Tales of Miletus? Should lawyers wear their
    own hair? Was the Silent System so bad? Should a novel have a
    purpose? Was the Victoria Fund rightly distributed? What is the
    origin of Egyptian civilisation? Is it allowable to say, "It's me"?
    Every other doubtful point of grammar and--worse still--of
    pronunciation; also of etymology. May we say "Give an ovation"? Is
    the German Emperor a genius, or a fool? Should bachelors be taxed?
    Will the family be abolished? Ensilage. Why was Ovid banished from
    Rome? Is the soul immortal? Is our art-pottery bad? Is the Revised
    Version of the Bible superior to the Old? Who stole Gainsborough's
    picture? Which are the rarest coins and stamps? Is there any sugar in
    the blood? Blondes or brunettes? Do monkeys talk? What should you
    lead at whist? Should directors of insolvent companies be prosecuted?
    Or classics be annotated? Was Boswell a fool? Do I exist? Does
    anybody else exist? Is England declining? Shall the costers stand in
    Farringdon Street? Do green wall-papers contain arsenic? Shall we
    adopt phonetic spelling? Is life worth living?

The last question at least I thought I could answer, as I bore to bed with me that headache
which you have doubtless acquired if you have been foolish enough to read the list. If only
one were a journalist, one would have definite opinions on all these points.

And to these questions every day brings a fresh quota. You are expected to have read the latest
paragraph in the latest paper, and the newest novel, and not to have missed such and such an
article in such and such a quarterly. And all the while you are fulfilling the duties of, and
solving the problems of, son, brother, cousin, husband, father, friend, parishioner, citizen,
patriot, all complicated by specific religious and social relations, and earning your living
by some business that has its own hosts of special problems, and you are answering letters
from everybody about everything, and deciding as to the genuineness of begging appeals, and
wrestling with some form or forms of disease, pain, and sorrow.

"Truly, we are imperfect instruments for determining truth," I said to the Poet. "The sane
person acts from impulse, and only pretends to give a reason. Reason is only called in to justify
the verdict of prejudice. Sometimes the impulse is sentiment--which is prejudice touched with
emotion. We cannot judge anything on pure, abstract grounds, because the balance is biassed.
A human being is born a bundle of prejudices, a group of instincts and intuitions and emotions
that precede judgment. Patriotism is prejudice touched with pride, and politics is prejudice
touched with spite. Philosophy is prejudice put into propositions, and art is prejudice put
into paint or sound, and religion is a pious opinion. Every man is born a Platonist or an Aristotelian,
a Romanticist, or a Realist, or an Impressionist, and usually erects his own limitations into
a creed. Every country, town, district, family, individual, has a special set of prejudices
along the lines of which it moves, and which it mistakes for exclusive truths or reasoned conclusions.
Touch human society anywhere, it is rotten, it crumbles into a myriad notes of interrogation;
the acid of analysis dissolves every ideal. Humanity only keeps alive and sound by going on
in faith and hope,--solvitur ambulando,--if it sat down to ask questions, it would freeze like
the traveller in the Polar regions. The world is saved by bad logic."

"And by good feeling," added my friend the Poet.

"And in the face of all these questions," I cried, surveying the list ruefully again, "we go
on accumulating researches and multiplying books without end, vituperating the benefactors
who destroyed the library of Alexandria, and exhuming the civilisations that the earthquakes
of Time have swallowed under. The Hamlet of centuries, 'sicklied o'er with the pale cast of
thought,' the nineteenth of that ilk mouches along, soliloquising about more things in heaven
and earth than were dreamt of in any of its predecessors' philosophies. Ah me! Analysis is
paralysis and introspection is vivisection and culture drives one mad. What will be the end
of it all?"

"Yes," said I, "the only wisdom is to live. Action is substance and thought shadow." And so--paradoxically
enough--I began to think out

  A WORKING PHILOSOPHY

  The solar system turns without thine aid.
  Live, die! The universe is not afraid.
  What is is right! If aught seems wrong below,
  Then wrong it is--of thee to leave it so.
  Then wrong it first becomes for human thought,
  Which else would die of dieting on naught.
  Tied down by race and sex and creed and station,
  Go, learn to find thy strength in limitation,
  To do the little good that comes to hand,
  Content to love and not to understand;
  Faithful to friends and country, work and dreams,
  Knowing the Real is the thing that seems.
  While reverencing every nobleness,
  In whatsoever tongue or shape or dress,
  Speak out the word that to thy soul seems right,
  Strike out thy path by individual light:
  'Tis contradictory rays that give the White.

"The ideas are good. But what a pity you are not a poet!" said my friend the Poet.

But, though I recognise that prejudice in the deepest sense supplies the matter of judgment,
while logic is only regulative of the form, yet in the more work-a-day sense of the word in
which prejudice is taken to mean an opinion formed without reasoning and maintained in despite
of it, I claim to write absolutely without prejudice. The syllogism is my lord and king. A
kind-hearted lady said I had a cruel face. It is true. I am absolutely remorseless in tracking
down a non sequitur, pitiless in forcing data to yield up their implicit conclusions. "Logic!
Logic!" snorted my friend the Poet. "Life is not logical. We cannot be logical." "Of course
not," said I; "I should not dream of asking men to live logically: all I ask is that they should
argue logically."

But to be unprejudiced does not mean to have no convictions. The superficial confuse definiteness
with prejudice, forgetting that definite opinions may be the result of careful judgment. Post-judiced
I trust I am. But prejudiced? Heaven forfend! Why, 'tis because I do not wish to bind myself
to anything that I may say in them that I mark these personal communications "Without Prejudice"!
For I do not at all mind contradicting myself. If it were some one of reverend years or superior
talents I might hesitate, but between equals----! Contradiction is the privilege of camaraderie
and the essence of causerie. We agree to differ--I and myself. I am none of your dogmatic fellows
with pigeon-holes for minds, and whatever I say I do not stick to. And I will tell you why.
There is hardly a pretty woman of my acquaintance who has not asked for my hand. Owing to this
passion for palmistry in polite circles, I have discovered that I possess as many characters
as there are palmists. Do you wonder, therefore, if, with such a posse of personalities to
pick from, I am never alike two days running? With so varied a psychological wardrobe at command,
it would be mere self-denial to be faithful to one's self. I leave that to the one-I'd who
can see only one side of a question. Said Tennyson to a friend (who printed it): "'In Memoriam'
is more optimistic than I am"; and there is more of the real man in that little remark than
in all the biographies. The published prophet has to live up to his public halo. So have I
seen an actress on tour slip from a third-class railway carriage into a brougham. Tennyson
was not mealy-mouthed, but then he did not bargain for an audience of phonographs. Nowadays
it is difficult to distinguish your friends from your biographers. The worst of it is that
the land is thick with fools who think nothing of a great man the moment they discover he was
a man. Tennyson was all the greater for his honest doubt. The cocksure centuries are passed
for ever. In these hard times we have to work for our opinions; we cannot rely on inheriting
them from our fathers.

