STORIES WORTH REREADING

1913

PREFACE

All persons like stories. Children call for them from their earliest years. The purpose of
this book is to provide children and youth with stories worth reading; stories relating incidents
of history, missionary effort, and home and school experiences. These stories will inspire,
instruct, and entertain the readers. Nearly all of these have appeared in print before, and
are reprinted in this form through the courteous permission of their writers and publishers.

"Stories Worth Rereading" can be obtained only as a premium with the Youth's Instructor, a
sixteen-page weekly, published by the Review and Herald Publishing Association, Takoma Park,
Washington, D. C.

CONTENTS

THEIR WORD OF HONOR

MURIEL'S BRIGHT IDEA

THE STRENGTH OF CLINTON

THE DOCTOR'S COW

HONEY AT THE PHONE

ONE OF FATHER'S STORIES

WHAT RUM DOES

MY MOTHER'S RING

THE BRIDAL WINE-CUP

A MOTHER'S SORROW

THE REPRIMAND

AN EXAMPLE

FIGHTING THE GOOD FIGHT

TIGHTENING THE SADDLE-GIRTH

"HERRINGS FOR NOTHING"

THE POWER OF SONG

JACK'S FIDELITY

HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER

THE SLEIGH-RIDE

SAMUEL SMILES, THE AUTHOR OF "SELF-HELP"

DAVID LIVINGSTONE

A TRUE INCIDENT OF THE SAN FRANCISCO EARTHQUAKE

LITTLE CORNERS

IN THE HOME

GIANTS AND GRASSHOPPERS

AS GOOD AS HIS BOND

PLAIN BERNICE

HOW THE BOY WITHOUT A REFERENCE FOUND ONE

AN HOUR A DAY FOR A YEAR

"PLEASE, SIR, I WOULD RATHER NOT"

THE RIGHT WORD

THE SADDEST OF INDIA'S PICTURES (1912)

ONE LITTLE WIDOW

WHY THE MITE BOXES WERE FULL

TI-TO AND THE BOXERS

HOW NYANGANDI SWAM TO CHURCH

THE LITTLE PRINTER MISSIONARY

THE MISSIONARY'S DEFENSE

LIGHT AT LAST

THE BROWN TOWEL

ONLY A BOY

THE LITTLE PROTECTOR

MOFFAT AND AFRICANER

TWO TRIFLES

A SECOND TRIAL

THE SIN OF EXTRAVAGANCE

A LITTLE CHILD'S WORK

THE HANDY BOX

THE RESULT OF DISOBEDIENCE

LIVINGSTONE'S BODY-GUARD

SPARE MOMENTS

A GOLD MEDAL

A GIRL'S RAILWAY ACQUAINTANCE

HAROLD'S FOOTMAN

ELNATHAN'S GOLD

ONLY A JACK-KNIFE

A SPELLING-BEE

JACK'S QUEER WAYS

WHAT ONE BOY DID

HOW NICK LEARNED MANNERS

WITHOUT BALLAST

INFLUENCE OF A GOOD BOOK

"STRAIGHTENING OUT THE FURROWS"

A BOY WHO WAS WANTED

WANTED: AN EMPLOYER

HOW TO STOP SWEARING

THE CAROLS OF BETHLEHEM CENTER

STANDING BEAR'S SPEECH

MABEL ASHTON'S DREAM

A SAD BUT TRUE STORY

"THE MAN THAT DIED FOR ME" I have not seen much of them lately.

"On your honor?" His manner was almost indifferent. Before ordering luncheon read envelope No. 8."

"I think I'll have--"

Envelope No. 8 ought to have been bordered with black, judging by the dismay its order to a
lecture hall to hear a famous electrician, caused. Wait for messenger in west end of station,
by telegraph office."

It was a blow, but Cyrus had his second wind now. He felt like a machine--a hollow one--which
could keep on going indefinitely. You are going with us through nineteen States and Mexico.
Is that reward enough for one day's hardships?"

Heroism

A tone of pride or petulance repressed, A selfish inclination firmly fought, A shadow of annoyance
set at naught, A measure of disquietude suppressed, A peace in importunity possessed, A reconcilement
generously sought, A purpose put aside, a banished thought, A word of self-explaining unexpressed,--
Trifles they seem, these petty soul-restraints; Yet he who proves them so must needs possess
A constancy and courage grand and bold. They are the trifles that have made the saints. Give
me to practise them in humbleness, And nobler power than mine doth no man hold. --Selected.

MURIEL'S BRIGHT IDEA

My friend Muriel is the youngest daughter in a large family of busy people. They are in moderate
circumstances, and the original breadwinner has been long gone; so in order to enjoy many of
the comforts and a few of the luxuries of life the young people have to be wage-earners. I
am not sure that they would enjoy life any better than they do now if such were not the case,
though there are doubtless times when they would like to be less busy. Still, even this condition
has its compensations.

"Other people do not know how lovely vacations are," was the way Esther expressed it as she
sat one day on the side porch, hands folded lightly in her lap, and an air of delicious idleness
about her entire person. It was her week of absolute leisure, which she had earned by a season
of hard work. She is a public-school teacher, belonging to a section and grade where they work
their teachers fourteen hours of the twenty-four.

Alice is a music-teacher, and goes all day from house to house in town, and from school to
school, with her music-roll in hand. Ben, a young brother, is studying medicine in a doctor's
office, also in town, and serving the doctor between times to pay for his opportunities. There
are two others, an older brother just started in business for himself, and a sister in a training-school
for nurses.

So it was that this large family scattered each morning to their duties in the city ten miles
away, and gathered at night, like chickens, to the home nest, which was mothered by the dearest
little woman, who gave much of her time and strength to the preparation of favorite dishes
with which to greet the wage-earners as they gathered at night around the home table. It is
a very happy family, but it was not about any of them that I set out to tell you. In truth,
it was Muriel's apron that I wanted to talk about; but it seemed necessary to describe the
family in order to secure full appreciation of the apron.

Muriel, I should tell you, is still a high-school girl, hoping to be graduated next year, though
at times a little anxious lest she may not pass, and with ambitions to enter college as soon
as possible.

The entire family have ambitions for Muriel, and I believe that she will get to college in
another year. But about her apron. I saw it first one morning when I crossed the street to
my neighbor's side door that opens directly into the large living-room, and met Muriel in the
doorway, as pretty a picture as a fair-haired, bright-eyed girl of seventeen can make. She
was in what she called her uniform, a short dress made of dark print, cut lower in the neck
than a street dress. It had elbow sleeves, and a bit of white braid stitched on their bands
and around the square neck set off the little costume charmingly.

Her apron was of strong dark-green denim, wide enough to cover her dress completely; it had
a bib waist held in place by shoulder straps; and the garment fastened behind with a single
button, making it adjustable in a second. But its distinctive feature was a row of pockets--or
rather several rows of them--extending across the front breadth; they were of varying sizes,
and all bulged out as if well filled.

"What in the world?" I began, and stared at the pockets. Muriel's merry laugh rang out.

"Haven't you seen my pockets before?" she asked. "They astonish you, of course; everybody laughs
at them; but I am proud of them; they are my own invention. You see, we are such a busy family
all day long, and so tired when we get home at night, that we have a bad habit of dropping
things just where they happen to land, and leaving them. By the last of the week this big living-room
is a sight to behold. It used to take half my morning to pick up the thousand and one things
that did not belong here, and carry them to their places. You do not know how many journeys
I had to make, because I was always overlooking something. So I invented this apron with a
pocket in it for every member of the family, and it works like a charm.

"Look at this big one with a B on it; that is for Ben, of course, and it is always full. Ben
is a great boy to leave his pencils, and his handkerchiefs, and everything else about. Last
night he even discarded his necktie because it felt choky.

"This pocket is Esther's. She leaves her letters and her discarded handkerchiefs, as well as
her gloves. And Kate sheds hair ribbons and hatpins wherever she goes. Just think how lovely
it is to have a pocket for each, and drop things in as fast as I find them. When I am all through
dusting, I have simply to travel once around the house and unpack my load. I cannot tell you
how much time and trouble and temper my invention has saved me."

"It is a bright idea," I said, "and I mean to pass it on. There are other living-rooms and
busy girls. Whose is that largest pocket, marked M?"

"Why, I made it for mother; but, do you know, I have found out just in this very way that mothers
do not leave things lying around. It is queer, isn't it, when they have so many cares? It seems
to be natural for mothers to think about other people. So I made the M stand for 'miscellaneous,'
and I put into that pocket articles which will not classify, and that belong to all of us.
There are hosts of things for which no particular one seems to be responsible. Is it not a
pity that I did not think of pockets last winter, when we all had special cares and were so
dreadfully busy? It is such a simple idea you would have supposed that any person would have
thought of it, but it took me two years. I just had to do it this spring, because there simply
was not time to run up- and down-stairs so much."

"You have proved once more the truth of the old proverb, 'Necessity is the mother of invention,'"
I said. "And, besides, you have given me a new idea. I am going home to work it out. When it
is finished, I will show it to you." Then I went home, and made rows and rows of strong pockets
to sew on a folding screen I was making for my work-room.--Pansy, in Christian Endeavor World.
By permission of Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just Do Your Best

Just do your best. It matters not how small,
      How little heard of;
Just do your best--that's all.
Just do your best. God knows it all,
And in his great plan you count as one;
Just do your best until the work is done.

Just do your best. Reward will come
  To those who stand the test;
God does not forget. Press on,
  Nor doubt, nor fear. Just do your best.

ERNEST LLOYD.

THE STRENGTH OF CLINTON

When Clinton Stevens was eleven years old, he was taken very sick with pneumonia. During convalescence,
he suffered an unexpected relapse, and his mother and the doctor worked hard to keep him alive.

"It is ten to one if he gets well," said Dr. Bemis, shaking his head. "If he does, he will
never be very strong."

Mrs. Stevens smoothed Clinton's pillow even more tenderly than before. Poor Clinton! who had
always been such a rollicking, rosy-cheeked lad. Surely it was hard to bear.

The long March days dragged slowly along, and April was well advanced before Clinton could
sit at the window, and watch the grass grow green on the slope of the lawn. He looked frail
and delicate. He had a cough, too, a troublesome "bark," that he always kept back as long as
he could.

The bright sunlight poured steadily in through the window, and Clinton held up his hand to
shield his eyes. "Why, Ma Stevens!" he said, after a moment, "just look at my hands! They are
as thin and white as a girl's, and they used to be regular paws. It does not look as if I would
pull many weeds for Mr. Carter this summer, does it?"

Mrs. Stevens took his thin hands in her own patient ones. "Never mind, dearie," she said, "they
will grow plump and brown again, I hope." A group of school-children were passing by, shouting
and frolicking. Clinton leaned forward and watched them till the last one was gone. Some of
them waved their caps, but he did not seem elated. "Mother," he said, presently, "I believe
I will go to bed if you will help me. I--I guess I am not quite so--strong--now as I used to be."

Clinton did not pull weeds for Mr. Carter that summer, but he rode around with the milkman,
and did a little outdoor work for his mother, which helped him to mend. One morning in July
he surprised the village by riding out on his bicycle; but he overdid the matter, and it was
several weeks before he again appeared. His cough still continued, though not so severe as
in the spring, and it was decided to let him go to school in the fall.

Dr. Bemis told Mrs. Stevens that the schoolroom would be a good place to test Clinton's strength.
And he was right. In no other place does a young person's strength develop or debase itself
so readily, for honor or dishonor. Of course the doctor had referred to physical strength;
but moral strength is much more important.

Clinton was a bright lad for his years; and, although he had not looked into his books during
the summer, he was placed in the same grade he had left when taken sick. He did not find much
difficulty in keeping up with any of his studies except spelling. Whenever he received a perfect
mark on that subject, he felt that a real victory had been won.

About Christmas-time the regular examinations were held. The teacher offered a prize to each
grade, the pupil receiving the highest average in all studies to receive the prize. Much excitement,
no little speculation, and a great deal of studying ensued. Clinton felt fairly confident over
all his studies except spelling. So he carried his spelling-book home every night, and he and
his mother spent the evenings in wrestling with the long and difficult words.

Examination day came at length, and the afternoon for the seventh grade spelling was at hand.
The words were to be written, and handed in. Across the aisle from Clinton sat Harry Meyers.
Several times when teacher pronounced a word, Harry looked slyly into the palm of his hand.
Clinton watched him, his cheeks growing pink with shame. Then he looked around at the others.
Many of them had some dishonest device for copying the words. Clinton swallowed something in
his throat, and looked across at Matthews, who pursed up his lips and nodded, if to say that
he understood.

The papers were handed in, and school was dismissed. On Monday, after the morning exercises,
Miss Brooks gave out the prizes to the three grades under her care. "I have now to award the
prize for the highest average to the seventh grade," she said. "But first I wish to say a few
words on your conduct during the recent examination in spelling. I shall censure no one in
particular, although there is one boy who must set no more bad examples. No one spelled the
words correctly--Clinton Stevens the least of any--making his average quite low; yet the prize
goes to him. I will tell you why--" as a chorus of O! O's! greeted her ears. "Spelling is Clinton's
hardest subject, but he could easily have spelled more words right had he not possessed sufficient
strength to prevent him from falling into the way followed by some of you."

As Clinton went up the aisle for his prize, he felt like crying, but he managed to smile instead.
A few days before, Harry Meyers had ridiculed him because he was not strong enough to throw
a snowball from the schoolhouse to the road; now the teacher had said he was strong!

Clinton's Aunt Jennie came to visit the family in December, bringing her little daughter Grace
with her. Now Grace had a mania for pulling other people's hair, but there was no one in the
Stevens family upon whom she dared operate except Clinton. She began on him cautiously, then
aggressively. Clinton stood it for a while, and then asked her, politely but firmly, to stop.
She stopped for half a day.

One night Clinton came home from school pale and tired. Some of the boys had been taunting
him on his spare frame, and imitating his cough, which had grown worse as the winter advanced.
Sitting down by the window, he looked out at the falling snow. Grace slipped up behind him,
and gave his hair a sharp tweak. He struck out, hastily, and hit her. She was not hurt,--only
very much surprised,--but she began to cry lustily, and Aunt Jennie came hurrying in, and took
the child in her arms.

That night after supper Clinton went into the sitting-room, and called Grace to him. "I want
to tell you something," he said. "I am sorry that I hit you, and I ask your pardon. Will you
forgive me, dear?" Grace agreed quickly, and said, shyly, "Next time I want to pull any one's
hair, I will pull my own."

Aunt Jennie was in the next room and overheard the conversation. "It strikes me, Sarah," she
said to Mrs. Stevens, later, "that Clinton is a remarkably strong boy for one who is not strong.
Most boys would not have taken the trouble to ask a small girl to forgive them, even if they
were very much in the wrong. But Clinton has a strong character."

The year Clinton was thirteen, the boys planned to have a corn roast, one August night. "We
will get the corn in old Carter's lot," said Harry Meyers. "He has just acres of it, and can
spare a bushel or so as well as not. I suppose you will go with us, Clint?"

Clinton hesitated. "No," said he. "I guess not; and I should think if you want to roast corn,
you could get it out of your own gardens. But if Mr. Carter's corn is better than any other,
why can you not ask him----"

"O, come, now," retorted Harry, "do not let it worry you! Half the fun of roasting corn is
in--in taking it. And don't you come, Clinton--don't. We would not have you for the world.
You are too nice, Mr. Coughin."

Clinton's cheeks flushed red, but he turned away without a word. When Mr. Carter quizzed Billy
Matthews, and found out all about it, Clinton was made very happy by the old man's words: "It
is not every chap that will take the stand you took. You ought to be thankful that you have
the strength to say No."

In the fall, when Clinton was fifteen, his health began to fail noticeably, and Dr. Bemis advised
a little wine "to build him up."

"Mother," said the boy, after thinking it over, "I am not going to touch any wine. I can get
well without it, I know I can. I do not want liquor," he continued. "'Wine is a mocker,' you
know. Did you not tell me once that Zike Hastings, over in East Bloomfield, became a drunkard
by drinking wine when he was sick?"

"Yes, Clinton, I believe I told you so."

"Well, then, I do not want any wine. I have seen Zike Hastings too many times."

In December Aunt Jennie and Grace made their annual visit. With them came Uncle Jonathan, who
took a great liking to Clinton.

"My boy," said he one day, placing a big hand on the lad's shoulder, "early in the new year
Aunt Jennie and I start for the Pacific Coast. Should you like to go with us?"

"Well, I rather guess I should!" gasped the surprised boy, clasping his hands joyfully. "Very
well, then, you shall go," returned Uncle Jonathan, "and your mother, too."

Clinton began to feel better before they were outside of Pennsylvania. When they had crossed
the Mississippi and reached the prairies, his eyes were sparkling with excitement. The mountains
fairly put new life in him. Uncle Jonathan watched him with pleasure. "Tell me," he said one
day, when they were winding in and out among the Rockies, "what has given you so much strength
of character?"

"Why, it was this way," said Clinton, bringing his eyes in from a chasm some hundreds of feet
below: "one day when I was beginning to recover from that attack of pneumonia, I saw a lot
of the boys romping along, and I felt pretty bad because I could not romp and play, too; then
I thought that if I could not be strong that way, I could have the strength to do right; so
I began to try, and----"

"Succeeded admirably," said Uncle Jonathan, approvingly. "And, really, my boy, I see no reason
why you should not shout and play to your heart's content in a few months."

And Uncle Jonathan's words proved true; for Clinton, in a sun-kissed California valley, grew
well and strong in a few months. But through all his life he will have cause to be glad that
he learned the value of the strength that is gained by resisting temptation, controlling one's
spirit, and obeying the Lord's commands.

BENJAMIN KEECH.

THE DOCTOR'S COW

"I am afraid she is done for," said the veterinary surgeon as he came out of the barn with
Dr. Layton, after working for an hour over Brindle, who had broken into the feed bins, and
devoured bran and middlings until she could eat no more. "But keep up the treatment faithfully,
and if she lives through the night, she will stand some show of getting well."

The doctor walked down the driveway with the surgeon, and stood for a few minutes at the gate
under the maple-trees that lined the sidewalk, talking earnestly. Then he went back into the
house by the kitchen door. His wife met him, with the oft-repeated words, "I told you so; I
said that boy would turn out of no earthly account."

"But he has turned out of some account," contradicted the doctor mildly. "In spite of this
carelessness, he has been a great help to me during the last month. It was boyish ignorance
more than mere carelessness that brought about this disaster. To be sure, I have cautioned
him not to leave the door of the feed-room unfastened. But he had no idea how a cow would make
a glutton of herself if she had a chance at the bins. You cannot expect a boy who was reared
in a city tenement to learn all about the country, and the habits and weaknesses of cattle,
in one short month. No, I shall not send him adrift again--not even if poor Brindle dies."

"You mean to say you are going to keep him just the same, John Layton?" cried the doctor's
wife. "Well, if you are not the meekest man! Moses was not anything to you! He did lose his
temper once."

The doctor smiled, and said quietly: "Yes, and missed entering the promised land on account
of it. Perhaps I should have done the same thing in his place; but I am sure that Moses, if
he were in my place today, would feel just as I do about discharging Harry. It is pretty safe
to assume that he, even if he did lose his temper at the continual grumbling of the croakers
who were sighing for the flesh-pots of Egypt, never ordered a young Israelite boy whose father
and mother had been bitten by the fiery serpents and died in the wilderness, to clear out of
camp for not putting a halter on one of the cows."

"John Layton, you are talking Scripture!" remonstrated the perturbed housewife, looking up
reprovingly as she sadly skimmed the cream from the very last pan of milk poor Brindle would
ever give her.

"I certainly am, and I am going to act Scripture, too," declared the doctor, with the air of
gentle firmness that always ended any controversy between him and his excellent, though somewhat
exacting, wife. "Harry is a good boy, and he had a good mother, too, he says, but he has had
a hard life, ill-treated by a father who was bitten by the fiery serpent of drink. Now because
of his first act of negligence I am not going to send him adrift in the world again."

"Not if it costs you a cow!" remarked the woman.

"No, my dear, not if it costs me two cows," reasserted the doctor. "A cow is less than a boy,
and it might cost the world a man if I sent Harry away in a fit of displeasure, disgraced by
my discharge so that he could not find another place in town to work for his board, and go
to school. Besides, Brindle will die anyway, and discharging the boy will not save her."

"No, of course not. But it was your taking the boy in, a penniless, unknown fellow, that has
cost you a cow," persisted the wife. "I told you at the time you would be sorry for it."

"I have not intimated that I am sorry I took the boy in," remarked the doctor, not perversely,
but with steadfast kindness. "If our own little boy had lived, and had done this thing accidentally,
would I have been sorry he had ever been born? Or if little Ted had grown to be thirteen, and
you and I had died in the wilderness of poverty, leaving him to wander out of the city to seek
for a home in God's fair country, where his little peaked face could fill out and grow rosy,
as Harry's has, would you think it just to have him sent away because he had made a boyish
mistake? Of course you would not, mother. Your heart is in the right place, even if it does
get covered up sometimes. And I guess, to come right down to it, you would not send Harry away
any more than I would, when the poor boy is almost heart-broken over this unfortunate affair.
Now, let us have supper, for I must be off. We cannot neglect sick people for a poor, dying
cow. Harry will look after Brindle. He will not eat a bite, I am afraid, so it is no use to
call him in now. By and by you would better take a plate of something out to him; but do not
say a harsh word to the poor fellow, to make it any harder for him than it is."

The doctor ate his supper hurriedly; for the sick cow had engaged every moment of his spare
hours that day, and he had postponed until his evening round of visits a number of calls that
were not pressing. When he came out to his buggy, Harry Aldis stood at the horse's head, at
the carriage steps beside the driveway, his chin sunk on his breast, in an attitude of hopeless
misery.

"Keep up the treatment, Harry, and make her as easy as possible," said the doctor as he stepped
into his buggy.

"Yes, sir; I'll sit up all night with her, Dr. Layton, if I can only save her," was the choking
answer, as the boy carefully spread the lap robe over the doctor's knees.

"I know you will, Harry; but I am afraid nothing can save the poor creature. About all we can
do is to relieve her suffering until morning, giving her a last chance; and if she is no better
then, the veterinary surgeon says we would better shoot her, and put her out of her misery."

The boy groaned. "O Dr. Layton, why do you not scold me? I could bear it better if you would
say just one cross word," he sobbed. "You have been kinder to me than my own father ever was,
and I have tried so hard to be useful to you. Now this dreadful thing has taken place, all
because of my carelessness. I wish you would take that buggy whip to me; I deserve it."

The doctor took the whip, and gently dropped its lash across the drooping shoulders bowed on
the horse's neck as the boy hid his face in the silken mane he loved to comb. Indeed, Dandy's
black satin coat had never shone with such a luster from excessive currying as in the month
past, since the advent of this new little groom, who slept in the little back bedroom of the
doctor's big white house, and thought it a nook in paradise.

"There's no use in scolding or thrashing a fellow who is all broken up, anyway, over an accident,
as you are," the doctor said, kindly. "Of course, it is a pretty costly accident for me, but
I think I know where I can get a heifer--one of Brindle's own calves, that I sold to a farmer
two years ago--that will make as fine a cow as her mother."

"But the money, Dr. Layton! How can I ever earn that to make good your loss?" implored the
boy, looking up.

"The money? O, well, some day when you are a rich man, you can pay me for the cow!" laughed
the doctor, taking up the reins. "In the meantime, make a good, trustworthy, honest man of
yourself, no matter whether you get rich or not, and keep your 'thinking cap' on a little better."

