UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS PUBLICATIONS MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Volume 17, No. 11, pp. 503-515, 5 figs. Published March 20, 1968

UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS Lawrence, Kansas

PRINTED BY ROBERT R. (BOB) SANDERS, STATE PRINTER TOPEKA, KANSAS 1968

31-9418

Genera of Leptodactylid Frogs in México

BY JOHN D. LYNCH

INTRODUCTION

According to the most recent review of the Mexican amphibian fauna (Smith and Taylor, 1948),
six genera of leptodactylid frogs occur in México. One other genus, Pleurodema, occurs in Lower
Central America. Smith and Taylor recognized one species of Engystomops, 28 of Eleutherodactylus,
three of Leptodactylus, eight of Microbatrachylus, 12 of Syrrhophus, and five of Tomodactylus.
Subsequent to the publication of their checklist of the Mexican amphibia (1948), numerous taxonomic
changes have been proposed. Many species of Eleutherodactylus have been added to the fauna,
either through the extension of their recorded ranges into México from Guatemala or by the
recognition of species unknown in 1948, whereas some nominal species have been synonymized.
Microbatrachylus has been regarded as synonymous with Eleutherodactylus (Lynch, 1965); four
species of Microbatrachylus currently are regarded as valid (Duellman, 1961, Lynch, 1965).
Syrrhophus was revised in part by Duellman (1958) and Firschein (1954), and a species of Tomodactylus
transferred to Syrrhophus by Dixon (1957), who redefined Tomodactylus and added more species
to the genus.

Since beginning my studies of the Mexican leptodactylids in 1962, I have become acutely aware
of difficulties involved in defining the genera. A revision of Eleutherodactylus and a review
of Syrrhophus are nearing completion, but prior to their publication it is desirable to redefine
the genera of the Mexican leptodactylids, and in so doing recognize an heretofore unnamed genus.
The definitions of Eleutherodactylus and Leptodactylus may need to be altered in the future,
since both are widespread in South America and occur in the West Indies. Their definitions
as given here are as precise as present knowledge permits. Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus are
small assemblages that occur only in southwestern United States, México, and Guatemala.

Taylor (1952) synonymized Engystomops with Eupemphix which, although related, should be regarded
as generically distinct (Gallardo, 1965). Perhaps the most conservative classification is that
of Myers (1962) who, without published evidence, combined Eleutherodactylus, Syrrhophus, and
the South American Lithodytes in a single genus.

The major problem for students working with the Mexican leptodactylids has not been the separation
of Engystomops or Leptodactylus from other genera but the separation and definition of the
eleutherodactyline frogs currently placed in three genera, Eleutherodactylus, Syrrhophus, and
Tomodactylus. As will be shown in this paper, these are more conveniently placed in four genera.
Once a fourth genus is recognized, certain phylogenetic problems disappear and a reasonable
zoogeographic interpretation is possible for Middle American leptodactylid distribution.

ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERS

In México and northern Central America approximately 55 species of eleutherodactyline frogs
(Eleutherodactylus, Syrrhophus, and Tomodactylus) are known. Four genera can be recognized
on the basis of the nature of inguinal glands, morphology of the hands and feet, and certain
osteological features.

Glands

Leptodactylids have a variety of glands that have been used as generic characters. Smith and
Taylor (1948) regarded the so-called inguinal gland as a generic character in Mexican eleutherodaycty-lines.
Lynch (1965) showed that Eleutherodactylus and Microbatrachylus cannot be separated by the
nature of the gland or the condition of the prevomers (dentate or not). Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus,
as defined by Smith and Taylor (1948), are not generically distinct because of overlap in the
condition of the prevomers and in the development of the gland. Firschein (1954) stated that
Syrrhophus differed from Tomodactylus by having an axillary gland, but it is now known that
one species of Syrrhophus lacks the gland.

The inguinal glands of Eleutherodactylus and Syrrhophus, if present, are diffuse, irregular
in outline, and generally not prominent; in Tomodactylus the gland is higher on the body (a
lumbo-inguinal gland), compact, oval in outline, and prominent (Fig. 1). Axillary glands occur
in most Syrrhophus but are not known in Tomodactylus or Eleutherodactylus.

Hands and feet

The tips of the digits are laterally expanded in most Eleutherodactylus, Syrrhophus, and Tomodactylus.
Two species of Eleutherodactylus (augusti and tarahumarensis) and two Tomodactylus (angustidigitorum
and grandis) lack any expansion of the digital tips. All but two of the species of eleutherodactyline
frogs (E. augusti and E. tarahumarensis) have a transverse groove across the tips of the digits
(Fig. 2).

Supernumerary tubercles rarely are present on the feet of Eleutherodactylus, but are present
and numerous in every species of Syrrhophus, Tomodactylus, and in the members of the augusti
group of Eleutherodactylus (Fig. 3). The tubercles are small and numerous in Syrrhophus and
larger in Tomodactylus and the Eleutherodactylus augusti group. Most species of Eleutherodactylus
have no plantar supernumerary tubercles; a few species have such tubercles, which never extend
between the metatarsal tubercles as in Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus.

Tarsal folds and tubercles are lacking in Syrrhophus, Tomodactylus, and the augusti group of
Eleutherodactylus. Several species of Eleutherodactylus lack tarsal folds and tubercles, but
in nearly every species group, one or more species possess either an inner tarsal fold, inner
tarsal tubercle(s), or outer tarsal tubercles.

The terminal phalanges of Syrrhophus, Tomodactylus, and all Eleutherodactylus (except the frogs
of the augusti group) are distinctly T-shaped. In the latter, the bones are knob-shaped distally
(Fig. 4). T-shaped terminal phalanges also are present in Lithodytes and Trachyphrynus but
not in other leptodactylid genera. At least one species of Eupsophus (E. quixensis) has terminal
phalanges that resemble those of the Eleutherodactylus augusti group. Several species of Eleutherodactylus,
Syrrhophus, and Tomodactylus with slender fingers have T-shaped terminal phalanges although
the terminal dilations proportionately are only scarcely wider than the finger tips in the
Eleutherodactylus augusti group. The presence of a terminal groove at the tip of the finger
is an external indicator of the T-shaped terminal phalanges.

Skull

All Mexican eleutherodactyline frogs have quadratojugal-maxillary articulations, completely
roofed skulls in adults, median contact of the nasals, separated occipital condyles, and large
prevomers. The premaxillae of all species are visible when the skulls are viewed from directly
above. The pterygoid lacks a medioventral flange and does not meet the palatine. In no species
is the anterior arm of the squamosal in contact with the maxillary. Of the numerous species
examined (30 Eleutherodactylus, four Syrrhophus, and four Tomodactylus), the species in the
Eleutherodactylus augusti group are unique in having a sphenethmoid with a blunt anterior edge.

Pectoral Girdle

All species have large cartilaginous plates in the pectoral girdles; none possesses a bony
style. No divergent modifications of the clavicle and coracoid bones are known in the family.

GENERIC ACCOUNTS

Genus ~Eleutherodactylus~ Dumeril and Bibron, 1841

     Type-species.--Hylodes martinicensis Tschudi, 1838

     Diagnosis and definition.--Small to large frogs (12 to 110
     mm. snout-vent length) having slightly to widely expanded
     digital pads, each pad bearing a terminal transverse groove;
     lumbo-inguinal, inguinal, and axillary glands absent, or if
     present, diffuse, irregular in outline, not compact; plantar
     supernumerary tubercles absent, or if present, six or fewer,
     restricted to distal area of plantar surface, and not
     extending between metatarsal tubercles; tarsus bearing inner
     or outer tubercles or folds or not; toes free to one-half
     webbed; terminal phalanges T-shaped; sternum cartilaginous,
     lacking bony style; sphenethmoid not truncate anteriorly;
     nasals in contact medially; maxillary and quadratojugal in
     contact; anterior arm of squamosal not in contact with
     maxillary; dermal cranial elements not involved in
     integumentary-cranial co-ossification; prevomers large,
     dentigerous processes present or not, dentate or not;
     maxillary and premaxillary bones dentate; occipital condyles
     separated; development direct.

     Composition.--About 420 names have been applied to frogs
     of this genus; many of these names are synonyms, and many
     other species remain undescribed and unnamed. Perhaps the
     genus contains 350 species. Thirty-one species occur in
     México and northern Central America.

     Distribution.--From Tamaulipas and Sinaloa, México,
     exclusive of the Mexican Plateau, to at least Peru and
     southernmost Brazil and throughout the West Indies.
     Introduced into Florida.

     Etymology.--Greek (eleuthero + dactylus) meaning
     free-toed.

Genus ~Engystomops~ Jiménez de la Espada, 1872

     Type species.--Engystomops petersi Jiménez de la Espada,
     1872

     Diagnosis and definition.--Small frogs (20 to 40 mm.
     snout-vent length) having undilated digital tips lacking
     transverse grooves; lumbo-inguinal or inguinal glands
     absent; plantar supernumerary tubercles present, extending
     between metatarsal tubercles; tarsus bearing spinelike
     tubercle on inner edge; toes free; terminal phalanges
     pointed; sternum bearing bony style; spenethmoid not
     truncate anteriorly; nasals in contact medially; maxillary
     and quadratojugal in articular contact; anterior arm of
     squamosal not in contact with maxillary; dermal cranial
     elements not involved in integumentary-cranial
     co-ossification; prevomers moderate in size, lacking teeth;
     maxillary and premaxillary bones edentate; occipital
     condyles separated; tadpole free living.

     Composition.--Four nominal species (E. petersi, E.
     pustulatus, E. pustulosus and E. schereri).

     Distribution.--Central Veracruz and eastern Oaxaca,
     México, to Trinidad, Bolivia, and Peru, east of the Andes.

     Etymology.--Greek (engys + stoma) meaning narrow-mouthed.

Genus ~Hylactophryne~ new genus

     Type-species.--Hylodes augusti Dugés, 1879

     Diagnosis and definition.--Medium to large frogs (37 to 94
     mm. snout-vent length) having undilated digital tips lacking
     terminal grooves; lumbo-inguinal or inguinal glands absent;
     plantar supernumerary tubercles present, prominent,
     extending to but not between metatarsal tubercles; tarsus
     lacking tubercles or folds; toes free of webbing; terminal
     phalanges knob-shaped, lacking elongate lateral expansions;
     sternum cartilaginous, lacking bony style; sphenethmoid
     truncate anteriorly; nasals in contact medially; maxillary
     and quadratojugal in articular contact; anterior arm of
     squamosal not in contact with maxillary; dermal cranial
     elements not involved in integumentary-cranial
     co-ossification; prevomers large, bearing dentigerous
     processes; maxillary and premaxillary bones dentate;
     occipital condyles separated; development direct.

     Composition.--Two species, H. augusti and H.
     tarahumarensis, the former composed of four subspecies
     (Zweifel, 1956).

     Distribution.--From Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas to
     Guerrero and Puebla, México, and a relict population on
     Cerro Quingola (just west of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec,
     México).

     Etymology.--Greek (hylactor + phryne) meaning barking
     toad; in reference to the voice and common name.

Genus ~Leptodactylus~ Fitzinger, 1826

     Type-species.--Leptodactylus typhonia Fitzinger, 1826

     Diagnosis and definition.--Small to large frogs (30 to
     about 200 m., snout-vent length) having undilated to
     slightly expanded digital tips bearing pads, no transverse
     groove at tips of digits; lumbo-inguinal, axillary, and/or
     ventral glands present or not, low, diffuse; plantar
     supernumerary tubercles generally absent, if present not
     extending between metatarsal tubercles; tarsus bearing
     tarsal folds or not; toes free of webbing, extensive lateral
     fringes present in some species; terminal phalanges pointed,
     not T-shaped; sternum bearing bony style; sphenethmoid not
     truncate anteriorly; nasals in contact medially; maxillary
     and quadratojugal in articular contact; anterior arm of
     squamosal not in contact with maxillary; dermal cranial
     elements not involved in integumentary-cranial
     co-ossification; prevomers large, bearing dentigerous
     processes; maxillary and premaxillary bones dentate;
     occipital condyles separated; tadpole free living.

     Composition.--Sixty species according to Smith and Taylor
     (1948); 54 according to Gorham (1963); Argentinian authors
     have described several more in recent years.

     Distribution.--Southern Sonora, México, and southern Texas
     throughout the Central and South American lowlands to
     Argentina. Also known from Hispaniola and Puerto Rico in the
     Greater Antilles and a few islands in the Lesser Antilles.

     Entymology.--Greek (leptos + dactylus) meaning slender
     toes.

Genus ~Syrrhophus~ Cope, 1878

     Type-species.--Syrrhophus marnockii Cope, 1878

     Diagnosis and definition.--Small to medium sized frogs (18
     to 40 mm. snout-vent) having slight to prominent digital
     expansions with transverse groove at tip of each digit;
     lumbo-inguinal and inguinal gland flattened, irregular in
     outline, not compact and oval; axillary glands present or
     not; plantar supernumerary tubercles numerous, more than
     eight, usually extending between metatarsal tubercles;
     tarsus lacking tubercles or folds; toes free or basally
     webbed; terminal phalanges T-shaped; sternum cartilaginous,
     lacking bony style; sphenethmoid not truncate anteriorly;
     nasals in contact medially; maxillary and quadratojugal in
     articular contact; anterior arm of squamosal not in contact
     with maxillary; dermal cranial elements not involved in
     integumentary-cranial co-ossification; prevomers large,
     usually lacking dentigerous processes and teeth; maxillary
     and premaxillary bones dentate; occipital condyles
     separated; development direct.

     Composition.--Thirteen species; the species described as,
     or later referred to, Syrrhophus from Lower Central
     America and South America are Eleutherodactylus or
     Eupsophus.

     Distribution.--Low to moderate elevations from Sinaloa,
     México, to Guatemala on the Pacific versant; from the
     Edwards and Stockton plateaus of Texas to British Honduras
     on the Caribbean versant.

     Etymology.--Greek, emendation of syrrhaptos, meaning
     sewn together in reference to the united outer metatarsals.

Genus ~Tomodactylus~ Günther, 1900

     Type-species.--Tomodactylus amulae Günther, 1900.

     Diagnosis and definition.--Small frogs (20 to 35 mm.
     snout-vent length) having digital expansions or not, with
     transverse groove across tip of each digit; lumbo-inguinal
     gland prominently elevated, compact, oval, often patterned;
     axillary glands absent; plantar supernumerary tubercles
     numerous, more than eight, usually extending between
     metatarsal tubercles; tarsus lacking tubercles or folds; toes
     free; terminal phalanges T-shaped; sternum cartilaginous,
     lacking bony style; sphenethmoid not truncate anteriorly;
     nasals in contact medially; maxillary and quadratojugal in
     articular contact; anterior arm of squamosal not in contact
     with maxillary; dermal cranial elements not involved in
     integumentary-cranial co-ossification; prevomers large,
     usually bearing dentigerous processes; maxillary and
     premaxillary bones dentate; occipital condyles separated;
     development direct.

     Composition.--Ten species.

     Distribution.--The southern edge of the Mexican Plateau
     from Sinaloa to Veracruuz and onto the Oaxaca highlands and
     Sierra Madre del Sur.

     Etymology.--Greek (tomis + dactylus) meaning knife
     toe; in reference to either the sharp subarticular tubercles
     or the unwebbed toes.

DISCUSSION

The preceding definitions only slightly alter the present generic limits of Mexican leptodactylids.
Two species, previously regarded as Eleutherodactylus, are transferred to the new genus Hylactophryne.
The arrangement of the species of Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus remains the same as concluded
by Dixon (1957), Duellman (1958), and Firschein (1954) in their reviews of the genera.

Lumbo-inguinal glands are most prominent in the genera Pleurodema and Tomodactylus. Various
nondescript glands are present in many genera, but none is so well developed as those of Pleurodema
and Tomodactylus.

At least nine leptodactylid genera are either known or thought to be terrestrial breeders lacking
a free-living tadpole stage (Eleutherodactylus, Euparkerella, Hylactophryne, Niceforonia, Noblella,
Sminthillus, Syrrhophus, Tomodactylus and Trachyphrynus). Niceforonia and Trachyphrynus, and
probably Hylactophryne, are not closely related to the other genera. Direct development probably
is an adaptation to adverse environmental conditions since many of the species occur in semi-arid
or cold (Andean páramos) areas. Eleutherodactylus is generally thought to be the stock from
which Euparkerella, Noblella, and Sminthillus evolved (Griffiths, 1959) and from which Syrrhophus
and Tomodactylus are derived (Firschein, 1954).

The present distribution of Hylactophryne (isolated on the Mexican Plateau) and its digital
form (like that of Papuan and many primitive South American leptodactylids) suggest that the
genus was isolated in México throughout the Tertiary, whereas the other Central American genera
are either post-Pliocene derivatives of Eleutherodactylus or invaders of Central America from
South America since the mid-Pliocene land bridge was formed (Lloyd, 1963).

Piatt (1934) presented arguments against assigning Eleutherodactylus latrans to the genus Lithodytes
and concluded that it was a "true" Eleutherodactylus. Contrary to his arguments, latrans (=
augusti of Zweifel) and E. tarahumarensis Taylor differ from all other Eleutherodactylus (and
Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus) in the nature of the tips of the digits (external and skeletal).
The digits of Hylactophryne are like those of Eupsophus. My study of nearly all genera of leptodactylids
indicates that Noble (1925) was correct in suggesting that Borborocoetes (= Eupsophus) is a
close relative of Eleutherodactylus latrans, although Noble's arguments were based in part
upon false evidence concerning the breeding habits of E. latrans, then thought to have a free-living
tadpole.

Kellogg (1932) and Piatt (1934) argued that the terminal phalanges of E. latrans were typically
eleutherodactyline. The variation of this character in Eupsophus (see Fig. 4) ranges from knobbed
to bifurcate or Y-shaped (T-shaped in Eleutherodactylus, Syrrhophus and Tomodactylus) and encompasses
the nature of the character represented in Hylactophryne. Eupsophus differs from Hylactophryne
in possessing a frontoparietal fontanelle, in generally having a maxillary-quadratojugal gap,
and in having a free swimming tadpole stage.

KEY TO MEXICAN LEPTODACTYLID GENERA

1. Small (20-40 mm.), pustular, toadlike frogs;
   maxillary and premaxillary bones not bearing teeth    Engystomops

   Large (20-110 mm.), smooth skinned and non-toadlike
   frogs; maxillary and premaxillary bones bearing teeth            2

2. No conspicuous waist (Fig. 5); sternum bearing
   bony style,                                         Leptodactylus

   Constrictions at waist (Fig. 5); sternum
   cartilaginous, no bony style                                     3

3. Few (less than six), if any, supernumerary
   tubercles on plantar surface                    Eleutherodactylus

   Many (more than 8) supernumerary tubercles on
   plantar surfaces                                                 4

4. Terminal, transverse groove across tip of
   digits, especially outer two fingers, digits
   expanded or not; small frogs (18 to 40 mm.)                      5

   Tips of digits lacking transverse groove;
   digits unexpanded; medium-sized to large frogs
   (37 to 94 mm.)                                      Hylactophryne

5. Lumbo-inguinal gland compact, oval                   Tomodactylus

   Lumbo-inguinal or inguinal gland absent or
   diffuse and irregular in outline                       Syrrhophus

LITERATURE CITED

DIXON, J. R.

     1957. Geographic variation and distribution of the genus
           Tomodactylus in Mexico. Texas Jour. Sci., 9:379-409,
           December.

DUELLMAN, W. E.

     1958. A review of the frogs of the genus Syrrhophus in
           western Mexico. Occas. Papers Mus. Zool. Univ.
           Michigan, 594:1-15, June 6.

     1961. The amphibians and reptiles of Michoacan, Mexico. Univ.
           Kansas Publ. Mus. Nat. Hist., 15:1-148, December 20.

FIRSCHEIN, I. L.

     1954. Definition of some little understood members of the
           leptodactylid genus Syrrhophus, with a description
           of a new species. Copeia, 1:48-58, February 19.

GALLARDO, J. M.

     1965. A proposito de los Leptodactylidae (Amphibia Anura).
           Papeis Avulsos, 17:77-87, January 30.

GORHAM, S. W.

     1963. The comparative number of species of amphibians in
           Canada and other countries. III. Summary of species
           of anurans. Canadian Field-Nat., 77:13-48, March.

GRIFFITHS, I.

     1959. The phylogeny of Sminthillus limbatus and the status of
           the Brachycephalidae (Amphibia Salientia). Proc. Zool.
           Soc. London, 132:457-87, May.

KELLOGG, R.

     1932. Mexican tailless amphibians in the United States
           National Museum. Bull. U. S. Natl. Mus., 160:224 pp.,
           March 31.

LLOYD, J. J.

     1963. Tectonic history of the south Central-American orogen,
           in Childs and Beebe eds., Backbone of the Americas.
           Amer. Assoc. Petroleum Geol., pp. 88-100.

LYNCH, J. D.

     1965. A review of the eleutherodactylid frog genus
           Microbatrachylus (Leptodactylidae). Nat. Hist. Misc.,
           182:1-12, December 15.

MYERS, G. S.

     1962. The American leptodactylid frog genus Eleutherodactylus,
           Hylodes (= Elosia), and Caudiverbera
           (= Calytocephalus). Copeia, 1:195-202, April 11.

NOBLE, G. K.

     1925. An outline of the relation of the ontogeny to
           phylogeny within the Amphibia. I. Amer. Mus. Nov.,
           165:1-17, April 16.

PIATT, J.

     1934. The systematic status of Eleutherodactylus latrans
           (Cope). Amer. Midl. Nat., 15:89-91, February 15.

SMITH, H. M. and TAYLOR, E. H.

     1948. An annotated checklist and key to the Amphibia of
           Mexico. Bull. U. S. Natl. Mus., 194:1-118. June 7.

TAYLOR, E. H.

     1952. A review of the frogs and toads of Costa Rica. Univ.
           Kansas Sci. Bull., 35:577-942, July 1.

ZWEIFEL, R. G.

     1956. A survey of the frogs of the augusti group, genus
           Eleutherodactylus. Amer. Mus. Novitates, 1813:1-35,
           December 23.

Transmitted July 11, 1967.

31-9418

       *       *       *       *       *

Bold text is shown within ~tildes~.

Italicized text is shown within underscores.

Illustrations have been moved to avoid breaking up paragraphs of text.

Page 507: Changed know to known (are not know in Tomodactylus).

Page 507: Added closing parenthesis in Fig. 2 caption after × 3.

Page 509: Changed compeltely to completely (compeltely roofed skulls).

Page 512: Veracruuz may be a typo for Veracruz (Sinaloa to Veracruuz).

Page 514: Changed two occurrences of Hylatophryne to Hylactophryne.

