During this journey to Carlisle Lizzie Eustace almost made up her mind that Lord George was
the very Corsair she had been expecting ever since she had mastered Lord Byron's great poem.
He had a way of doing things and of saying things, of proclaiming himself to be master, and
at the same time of making himself thoroughly agreeable to his dependants,--and especially
to the one dependant whom he most honoured at the time,--which exactly suited Lizzie's ideas
of what a man should be. And then he possessed that utter indifference to all conventions and
laws, which is the great prerogative of Corsairs. He had no reverence for aught divine or human,--which
is a great thing. The Queen and Parliament, the bench of bishops, and even the police, were
to him just so many fungi and parasites, and noxious vapours, and false hypocrites. Such were
the names by which he ventured to call these bugbears of the world. It was so delightful to
live with a man who himself had a title of his own, but who could speak of dukes and marquises
as being quite despicable by reason of their absurd position. And as they became gay and free
after their luncheon he expressed almost as much contempt for honesty as for dukes, and showed
clearly that he regarded matrimony and marquises to be equally vain and useless. "How dare
you say such things in our hearing!" exclaimed Mrs. Carbuncle.

"I assert that if men and women were really true, no vows would be needed;--and if no vows,
then no marriage vows. Do you believe such vows are kept?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Carbuncle enthusiastically.

"I don't," said Lucinda.

"Nor I," said the Corsair. "Who can believe that a woman will always love her husband because
she swears she will? The oath is false on the face of it."

"But women must marry," said Lizzie. The Corsair declared freely that he did not see any such
necessity.

And then, though it could hardly be said that this Corsair was a handsome man, still he had
fine Corsair's eyes, full of expression and determination, eyes that could look love and bloodshed
almost at the same time; and then he had those manly properties,--power, bigness, and apparent
boldness,--which belong to a Corsair. To be hurried about the world by such a man, treated
sometimes with crushing severity, and at others with the tenderest love, not to be spoken to
for one fortnight, and then to be embraced perpetually for another, to be cast every now and
then into some abyss of despair by his rashness, and then raised to a pinnacle of human joy
by his courage,--that, thought Lizzie, would be the kind of life which would suit her poetical
temperament. But then, how would it be with her, if the Corsair were to take to hurrying about
the world without carrying her with him;--and were to do so always at her expense! Perhaps
he might hurry about the world and take somebody else with him. Medora, if Lizzie remembered
rightly, had had no jointure or private fortune. But yet a woman must risk something if the
spirit of poetry is to be allowed any play at all! "And now these weary diamonds again," said
Lord George, as the carriage was stopped against the Carlisle platform. "I suppose they must
go into your bedroom, Lady Eustace?"

"I wish you'd let the man put the box in yours;--just for this night," said Lizzie.

"No;--not if I know it," said Lord George. And then he explained. Such property would be quite
as liable to be stolen when in his custody as it would in hers;--but if stolen while in his
would entail upon him a grievous vexation which would by no means lessen the effect of her
loss. She did not understand him, but finding that he was quite in earnest she directed that
the box should be again taken to her own chamber. Lord George suggested that it should be entrusted
to the landlord; and for a moment or two Lizzie submitted to the idea. But she stood for that
moment thinking of it, and then decided that the box should go to her own room. "There's no
knowing what that Mr. Camperdown mightn't do," she whispered to Lord George. The porter and
the tall footman, between them, staggered along under their load, and the iron box was again
deposited in the bedroom of the Carlisle inn.

The evening at Carlisle was spent very pleasantly. The ladies agreed that they would not dress,--but
of course they did so with more or less of care. Lizzie made herself to look very pretty, though
the skirt of the gown in which she came down was that which she had worn during the journey.
Pointing this out with much triumph, she accused Mrs. Carbuncle and Lucinda of great treachery,
in that they had not adhered to any vestige of their travelling raiment. But the rancour was
not vehement, and the evening was passed pleasantly. Lord George was infinitely petted by the
three Houris around him, and Lizzie called him a Corsair to his face. "And you are the Medora,"
said Mrs. Carbuncle.

"Oh no. That is your place,--certainly," said Lizzie.

"What a pity Sir Griffin isn't here," said Mrs. Carbuncle, "that we might call him the Giaour."
Lucinda shuddered, without any attempt at concealing her shudder. "That's all very well, Lucinda,
but I think Sir Griffin would make a very good Giaour."

"Pray don't, aunt. Let one forget it all just for a moment."

"I wonder what Sir Griffin would say if he was to hear this!" said Lord George.

Late in the evening Lord George strolled out, and of course the ladies discussed his character
in his absence. Mrs. Carbuncle declared that he was the soul of honour. In regard to her own
feeling for him, she averred that no woman had ever had a truer friend. Any other sentiment
was of course out of the question,--for was she not a married woman? Had it not been for that
accident, Mrs. Carbuncle really thought that she could have given her heart to Lord George.
Lucinda declared that she always regarded him as a kind of supplementary father. "I suppose
he is a year or two older than Sir Griffin," said Lizzie. "Lady Eustace, why should you make
me unhappy?" said Lucinda. Then Mrs. Carbuncle explained, that whereas Sir Griffin was not
yet thirty, Lord George was over forty. "All I can say is, he doesn't look it," urged Lady
Eustace enthusiastically. "Those sort of men never do," said Mrs. Carbuncle. Lord George, when
he returned, was greeted with an allusion to angels' wings,--and would have been a good deal
spoilt among them were it in the nature of such an article to receive injury. As soon as the
clock had struck ten the ladies all went away to their beds.

Lizzie, when she was in her own room, of course found her maid waiting for her. It was necessarily
part of the religion of such a woman as Lizzie Eustace that she could not go to bed, or change
her clothes, or get up in the morning, without the assistance of her own young woman. She would
not like to have it thought that she could stick a pin into her own belongings without such
assistance. Nevertheless it was often the case with her, that she was anxious to get rid of
her girl's attendance. It had been so on this morning, and before dinner, and was so now again.
She was secret in her movements, and always had some recess in her boxes and bags and dressing
apparatuses to which she did not choose that Miss Patience Crabstick should have access. She
was careful about her letters, and very careful about her money. And then as to that iron box
in which the diamonds were kept! Patience Crabstick had never yet seen the inside of it. Moreover,
it may be said,--either on Lizzie's behalf or to her discredit, as the reader may be pleased
to take it,--that she was quite able to dress herself, to brush her own hair, to take off her
own clothes; and that she was not, either by nature or education, an incapable young woman.
But that honour and glory demanded it, she would almost as lief have had no Patience Crabstick
to pry into her most private matters. All which Crabstick knew, and would often declare her
missus to be "of all missuses the most slyest and least come-at-able." On this present night
she was very soon despatched to her own chamber. Lizzie, however, took one careful look at
the iron box before the girl was sent away.

Crabstick, on this occasion, had not far to go to seek her own couch. Alongside of Lizzie's
larger chamber there was a small room,--a dressing-room with a bed in it, which, for this night,
was devoted to Crabstick's accommodation. Of course, she departed from attendance on her mistress
by the door which opened from the one room to the other; but this had no sooner been closed
than Crabstick descended to complete the amusements of the evening. Lizzie, when she was alone,
bolted both the doors on the inside, and then quickly retired to rest. Some short prayer she
said, with her knees close to the iron box. Then she put certain articles of property under
her pillow,--her watch and chain, and the rings from her fingers, and a packet which she had
drawn from her travelling-desk,--and was soon in bed, thinking that, as she fell away to sleep,
she would revolve in her mind that question of the Corsair;--would it be good to trust herself
and all her belongings to one who might perhaps take her belongings away, but leave herself
behind? The subject was not unpleasant, and while she was considering it, she fell asleep.

It was, perhaps, about two in the morning when a man, very efficient at the trade which he
was then following, knelt outside Lady Eustace's door, and, with a delicately-made saw, aided,
probably, by some other equally well-finished tools, absolutely cut out that portion of the
bedroom door on which the bolt was fastened. He must have known the spot exactly, for he did
not doubt a moment as he commenced his work; and yet there was nothing on the exterior of the
door to show where the bolt was placed. The bit was cut out without the slightest noise, and
then, when the door was opened, was placed, just inside, upon the floor. The man then with
perfectly noiseless step entered the room, knelt again,--just where poor Lizzie had knelt as
she said her prayers,--so that he might the more easily raise the iron box without a struggle,
and left the room with it in his arms without disturbing the lovely sleeper. He then descended
the stairs, passed into the coffee-room at the bottom of them, and handed the box through an
open window to a man who was crouching on the outside in the dark. He then followed the box,
pulled down the window, put on a pair of boots which his friend had ready for him; and the
two, after lingering a few moments in the shade of the dark wall, retreated with their prize
round a corner. The night itself was almost pitch-dark, and very wet. It was as nearly black
with darkness as a night can be. So far, the enterprising adventurers had been successful,
and we will now leave them in their chosen retreat, engaged on the longer operation of forcing
open the iron safe. For it had been arranged between them that the iron safe should be opened
then and there. Though the weight to him who had taken it out of Lizzie's room had not been
oppressive, as it had oppressed the tall serving-man, it might still have been an encumbrance
to gentlemen intending to travel by railway with as little observation as possible. They were,
however, well supplied with tools, and we will leave them at their work.

On the next morning Lizzie was awakened earlier than she had expected, and found, not only
Patience Crabstick in her bedroom, but also a chambermaid, and the wife of the manager of the
hotel. The story was soon told to her. Her room had been broken open, and her treasure was
gone. The party had intended to breakfast at their leisure, and proceed to London by a train
leaving Carlisle in the middle of the day; but they were soon disturbed from their rest. Lady
Eustace had hardly time to get her slippers on her feet, and to wrap herself in her dressing-gown,
to get rid of her dishevelled nightcap, and make herself just fit for public view, before the
manager of the hotel, and Lord George, and the tall footman, and the boots were in her bedroom.
It was too plainly manifest to them all that the diamonds were gone. The superintendent of
the Carlisle police was there almost as soon as the others;--and following him very quickly
came the important gentleman who was the head of the constabulary of the county.

Lizzie, when she first heard the news, was awe-struck, rather than outwardly demonstrative
of grief. "There has been a regular plot," said Lord George. Captain Fitzmaurice, the gallant
chief, nodded his head. "Plot enough," said the superintendent,--who did not mean to confide
his thoughts to any man, or to exempt any human being from his suspicion. The manager of the
hotel was very angry, and at first did not restrain his anger. Did not everybody know that
if articles of value were brought into an hotel they should be handed over to the safe-keeping
of the manager? He almost seemed to think that Lizzie had stolen her own box of diamonds. "My
dear fellow," said Lord George, "nobody is saying a word against you, or your house."

"No, my lord;--but--"

"Lady Eustace is not blaming you, and do not you blame anybody else," said Lord George. "Let
the police do what is right."

At last the men retreated, and Lizzie was left with Patience and Mrs. Carbuncle. But even then
she did not give way to her grief, but sat upon the bed awe-struck and mute. "Perhaps I had
better get dressed," she said at last.

"I feared how it might be," said Mrs. Carbuncle, holding Lizzie's hand affectionately.

"Yes;--you said so."

"The prize was so great."

"I always was a-telling my lady--" began Crabstick.

"Hold your tongue!" said Lizzie angrily. "I suppose the police will do the best they can, Mrs.
Carbuncle?"

"Oh yes;--and so will Lord George."

"I think I'll lie down again for a little while," said Lizzie. "I feel so sick I hardly know
what to do. If I were to lie down for a little I should be better." With much difficulty she
got them to leave her. Then, before she again undressed herself, she bolted the door that still
had a bolt, and turned the lock in the other. Having done this, she took out from under her
pillow the little parcel which had been in her desk,--and, untying it, perceived that her dear
diamond necklace was perfect, and quite safe.

The enterprising adventurers had, indeed, stolen the iron case, but they had stolen nothing
else. The reader must not suppose that because Lizzie had preserved her jewels, she was therefore
a consenting party to the abstraction of the box. The theft had been a genuine theft, planned
with great skill, carried out with much ingenuity, one in the perpetration of which money had
been spent,--a theft which for a while baffled the police of England, and which was supposed
to be very creditable to those who had been engaged in it. But the box, and nothing but the
box, had fallen into the hands of the thieves.

Lizzie's silence when the abstraction of the box was made known to her,--her silence as to
the fact that the necklace was at that moment within the grasp of her own fingers,--was not
at first the effect of deliberate fraud. She was ashamed to tell them that she brought the
box empty from Portray, having the diamonds in her own keeping because she had feared that
the box might be stolen. And then it occurred to her, quick as thought could flash, that it
might be well that Mr. Camperdown should be made to believe that they had been stolen. And
so she kept her secret. The reflections of the next half-hour told her how very great would
now be her difficulties. But, as she had not disclosed the truth at first, she could hardly
disclose it now.

CHAPTER XLV

The Journey to London

When we left Lady Eustace alone in her bedroom at the Carlisle hotel after the discovery of
the robbery, she had very many cares upon her mind. The necklace was, indeed, safe under her
pillow in the bed; but when all the people were around her,--her own friends, and the police,
and they who were concerned with the inn,--she had not told them that it was so, but had allowed
them to leave her with the belief that the diamonds had gone with the box. Even at this moment,
as she knew well, steps were being taken to discover the thieves, and to make public the circumstances
of the robbery. Already, no doubt, the fact that her chamber had been entered in the night,
and her jewel-box withdrawn, was known to the London police officers. In such circumstances
how could she now tell the truth? But it might be that already had the thieves been taken.
In that case would not the truth be known, even though she should not tell it? Then she thought
for a while that she would get rid of the diamonds altogether, so that no one should know aught
of them. If she could only think of a place fit for such purpose she would so hide them that
no human ingenuity could discover them. Let the thieves say what they might, her word would,
in such case, be better than that of the thieves. She would declare that the jewels had been
in the box when the box was taken. The thieves would swear that the box had been empty. She
would appeal to the absence of the diamonds, and the thieves,--who would be known as thieves,--would
be supposed, even by their own friends and associates, to have disposed of the diamonds before
they had been taken. There would be a mystery in all this, and a cunning cleverness, the idea
of which had in itself a certain charm for Lizzie Eustace. She would have all the world at
a loss. Mr. Camperdown could do nothing further to harass her; and would have been, so far,
overcome. She would be saved from the feeling of public defeat in the affair of the necklace,
which would be very dreadful to her. Lord Fawn might probably be again at her feet. And in
all the fuss and rumour which such an affair would make in London, there would be nothing of
which she need be ashamed. She liked the idea, and she had grown to be very sick of the necklace.

But what should she do with it? It was, at this moment, between her fingers beneath the pillow.
If she were minded,--and she thought she was so minded,--to get rid of it altogether, the sea
would be the place. Could she make up her mind absolutely to destroy so large a property, it
would be best for her to have recourse to "her own broad waves," as she called them even to
herself. It was within the "friendly depths of her own rock-girt ocean" that she should find
a grave for her great trouble. But now her back was to the sea, and she could hardly insist
on returning to Portray without exciting a suspicion that might be fatal to her.

And then might it not be possible to get altogether quit of the diamonds and yet to retain
the power of future possession? She knew that she was running into debt, and that money would,
some day, be much needed. Her acquaintance with Mr. Benjamin, the jeweller, was a fact often
present to her mind. She might not be able to get ten thousand pounds from Mr. Benjamin;--but
if she could get eight, or six, or even five, how pleasant would it be! If she could put away
the diamonds for three or four years,--if she could so hide them that no human eyes could see
them till she should again produce them to the light,--surely, after so long an interval, they
might be made available! But where should be found such hiding-place? She understood well how
great was the peril while the necklace was in her own immediate keeping. Any accident might
discover it, and if the slightest suspicion were aroused, the police would come upon her with
violence and discover it. But surely there must be some such hiding-place,--if only she could
think of it! Then her mind reverted to all the stories she had ever heard of mysterious villanies.
There must be some way of accomplishing this thing, if she could only bring her mind to work
upon it exclusively. A hole dug deep into the ground;--would not that be the place? But then,
where should the hole be dug? In what spot should she trust the earth? If anywhere, it must
be at Portray. But now she was going from Portray to London. It seemed to her to be certain
that she could dig no hole in London that would be secret to herself. Nor could she trust herself,
during the hour or two that remained to her, to find such a hole in Carlisle.

What she wanted was a friend;--some one that she could trust. But she had no such friend. She
could not dare to give the jewels up to Lord George. So tempted, would not any Corsair appropriate
the treasure? And if, as might be possible, she were mistaken about him and he was no Corsair,
then would he betray her to the police? She thought of all her dearest friends,--Frank Greystock,
Mrs. Carbuncle, Lucinda, Miss Macnulty,--even of Patience Crabstick,--but there was no friend
whom she could trust. Whatever she did she must do alone! She began to fear that the load of
thought required would be more than she could bear. One thing, however, was certain to her;--she
could not now venture to tell them all that the necklace was in her possession, and that the
stolen box had been empty.

Thinking of all this, she went to sleep,--still holding the packet tight between her fingers,--and
in this position was awakened at about ten by a knock at the door from her friend Mrs. Carbuncle.
Lizzie jumped out of bed, and admitted her friend, admitting also Patience Crabstick. "You
had better get up now, dear," said Mrs. Carbuncle. "We are all going to breakfast." Lizzie
declared herself to be so fluttered, that she must have her breakfast up-stairs. No one was
to wait for her. Crabstick would go down and fetch for her a cup of tea,--and just a morsel
of something to eat. "You can't be surprised that I shouldn't be quite myself," said Lizzie.

Mrs. Carbuncle's surprise did not run at all in that direction. Both Mrs. Carbuncle and Lord
George had been astonished to find how well she bore her loss. Lord George gave her credit
for real bravery. Mrs. Carbuncle suggested, in a whisper, that perhaps she regarded the theft
as an easy way out of a lawsuit. "I suppose you know, George, they would have got it from her."
Then Lord George whistled, and, in another whisper, declared that, if the little adventure
had all been arranged by Lady Eustace herself with the view of getting the better of Mr. Camperdown,
his respect for that lady would be very greatly raised. "If," said Lord George, "it turns out
that she has had a couple of bravos in her pay, like an old Italian marquis, I shall think
very highly of her indeed." This had occurred before Mrs. Carbuncle came up to Lizzie's room;--but
neither of them for a moment suspected that the necklace was still within the hotel.

The box had been found, and a portion of the fragments were brought into the room while the
party were still at breakfast. Lizzie was not in the room, but the news was at once taken up
to her by Crabstick, together with a pheasant's wing and some buttered toast. In a recess beneath
an archway running under the railroad, not distant from the hotel above a hundred and fifty
yards, the iron box had been found. It had been forced open, so said the sergeant of police,
with tools of the finest steel, peculiarly made for such purpose. The sergeant of police was
quite sure that the thing had been done by London men who were at the very top of their trade.
It was manifest that nothing had been spared. Every motion of the party must have been known
to them, and probably one of the adventurers had travelled in the same train with them. And
the very doors of the bedroom in the hotel had been measured by the man who had cut out the
bolt. The sergeant of police was almost lost in admiration;--but the superintendent of police,
whom Lord George saw more than once, was discreet and silent. To the superintendent of police
it was by no means sure that Lord George himself might not be fond of diamonds. Of a suspicion
flying so delightfully high as this, he breathed no word to any one; but simply suggested that
he should like to retain the companionship of one of the party. If Lady Eustace could dispense
with the services of the tall footman, the tall footman might be found useful at Carlisle.
It was arranged, therefore, that the tall footman should remain;--and the tall footman did
remain, though not with his own consent.

The whole party, including Lady Eustace herself and Patience Crabstick, were called upon to
give their evidence to the Carlisle magistrates before they could proceed to London. This Lizzie
did, having the necklace at that moment locked up in her desk at the inn. The diamonds were
supposed to be worth ten thousand pounds. There was to be a lawsuit about them. She did not
for a moment doubt that they were her property. She had been very careful about the diamonds
because of the lawsuit. Fearing that Mr. Camperdown might wrest them from her possession, she
had caused the iron box to be made. She had last seen the diamonds on the evening before her
departure from Portray. She had then herself locked them up, and she now produced the key.
The lock was still so far uninjured that the key would turn it. That was her evidence. Crabstick,
with a good deal of reticence, supported her mistress. She had seen the diamonds, no doubt,
but had not seen them often. She had seen them down at Portray, but not for ever so long. Crabstick
had very little to say about them; but the clever superintendent was by no means sure that
Crabstick did not know more than she said. Mrs. Carbuncle and Lord George had also seen the
diamonds at Portray. There was no doubt whatever as to the diamonds having been in the iron
box;--nor was there, said Lord George, any doubt but that this special necklace had acquired
so much public notice from the fact of the threatened lawsuit, as might make its circumstances
and value known to London thieves. The tall footman was not examined, but was detained by the
police under a remand given by the magistrates.

