Laperouse

by

Ernest Scott

DEDICATION

To my friend T.B.E.

CONTENTS

     I.  FAMILY, YOUTH and INFLUENCES.
    II.  THE FRENCH NAVAL OFFICER.
   III.  THE LOVE STORY OF LAPEROUSE.
    IV.  THE VOYAGE OF EXPLORATION.
     V.  THE EARLY PART OF THE VOYAGE.
    VI.  LAPEROUSE IN THE PACIFIC.
   VII.  AT BOTANY BAY.
  VIII.  THE MYSTERY, AND THE SECRET OF THE SEA.
    IX.  CAPTAIN DILLON'S DISCOVERY.
     X.  THE FAME OF LAPEROUSE.

FOREWORD

All Sydney people, and most of those who have visited the city, have seen the tall monument
to Laperouse overlooking Botany Bay. Many have perhaps read a little about him, and know the
story of his surprising appearance in this harbour six days after the arrival of Governor Phillip
with the First Fleet. One can hardy look at the obelisk, and at the tomb of Pere Receveur near
by, without picturing the departure of the French ships after bidding farewell to the English
officers and colonists. Sitting at the edge of the cliff, one can follow Laperouse out to sea,
with the eye of imagination, until sails, poops and hulls diminish to the view and disappear
below the hazy-blue horizon. We may be sure that some of Governor Phillip's people watched
the sailing, and the lessening, and the melting away of the vessels, from just about the same
place, one hundred and twenty four years ago. What they saw, and what we can imagine, was really
the end of a romantic career, and the beginning of a mystery of the sea which even yet has
not lost its fascination.

The story of that life is surely worth telling, and, we trust, worth reading; for it is that
of a good, brave and high-minded man, a great sailor, and a true gentleman. The author has
put into these few pages what he has gleaned from many volumes, some of them stout, heavy and
dingy tomes, though delightful enough to "those who like that sort of thing." He hopes that
the book may for many readers touch with new meaning those old weatherworn stones at Botany
Bay, and make the personality of Laperouse live again for such as nourish an interest in Australian
history.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

(Not included in etext)

  Portrait of Laperouse, with Autograph
  Laperouse's Coat of Arms
  The Laperouse Family
  Comte de Fleurieu
  Louis XVI Giving Instructions to Laperouse
  Australia as known at the time of Laperouse's visit
  The BOUSSOLE and ASTROLABE
  Chart of Laperouse's Voyage in the Pacific
  Massacre of Captain de Langle's Party
  Tomb of Pere Receveur
  Monument to Laperouse at Botany Bay
  Admiral Dentrecasteaux
  Map of Vanikoro Island
  Relics of Laperouse

Life of Laperouse

Chapter I.

FAMILY, YOUTH and INFLUENCES

Jean-Francois Galaup, Comte De Laperouse, was born at Albi, on August 23, 1741. His birthplace
is the chief town in the Department of Tarn, lying at the centre of the fruitful province of
Languedoc, in the south of France. It boasts a fine old Gothic cathedral, enriched with much
noble carving and brilliant fresco painting; and its history gives it some importance in the
lurid and exciting annals of France. From its name was derived that of a religious sect, the
Albigeois, who professed doctrines condemned as heretical and endured severe persecution during
the thirteenth century.

But among all the many thousands of men who have been born, and have lived, and died in the
old houses of the venerable city, none, not even among its bishops and counts, has borne a
name which lives in the memory of mankind as does that of the navigator, Laperouse. The sturdy
farmers of the fat and fertile plain which is the granary of France, who drive in to Albi on
market days, the patient peasants of the fields, and the simple artisans who ply their primitive
trades under the shadow of the dark-red walls of St. Cecile, know few details, perhaps, about
the sailor who sank beneath the waters of the Pacific so many years ago. Yet very many of them
have heard of Laperouse, and are familiar with his monument cast in bronze in the public square
of Albi. They speak his name respectfully as that of one who grew up among their ancestors,
who trod their streets, sat in their cathedral, won great fame, and met his death under the
strange, distant, southern stars.

His family had for five hundred years been settled, prominent and prosperous, on estates in
the valley of the Tarn. In the middle of the fifteenth century a Galaup held distinguished
office among the citizens of Albi, and several later ancestors are mentioned honourably in
its records. The father of the navigator, Victor Joseph de Galaup, succeeded to property which
maintained him in a position of influence and affluence among his neighbours. He married Marguerite
de Resseguier, a woman long remembered in the district for her qualities of manner and mind.
She exercised a strong influence over her adventurous but affectionate son; and a letter written
to her by him at an interesting crisis of his life, testifies to his eager desire to conform
to his mother's wishes even in a matter that wrenched his heart, and after years of service
in the Navy had taken him far and kept him long from her kind, concerning eyes.

Jean-Francois derived the name by which he is known in history from the estate of Peyrouse,
one of the possessions of his family. But he dropped the "y" when assuming the designation,
and invariably spelt the name "Laperouse," as one word. Inasmuch as the final authority on
the spelling of a personal name is that of the individual who owns it, there can be no doubt
that we ought always to spell this name "Laperouse," as, in fact, successors in the family
who have borne it have done; though in nearly all books, French as well as English, it is spelt
"La Perouse." In the little volume now in the reader's hands, the example of Laperouse himself
has been followed.

On this point it may be remarked concerning another navigator who was engaged in Australian
exploration, that we may lose touch with an interesting historical fact by not observing the
correct form of a name. On maps of Tasmania appears "D'Entrecasteaux Channel." It was named
by and after Admiral Bruny Dentrecasteaux, who as commander of the RECHERCHE and ESPERANCE
visited Australian waters. We shall have something to say about his expedition towards the
close of the book. Now, Dentrecasteaux sailed from France in 1791, while the Revolution was
raging. All titles had been abolished by a decree of the National Assembly on July 19th, 1790.
When he made this voyage, therefore, the Admiral was not Bruny D'Entrecasteaux, a form which
implied a territorial titular distinction; but simply Citizen Dentrecasteaux. The name is so
spelt in the contemporary histories of his expedition written by Rossel and Labillardiere.
It would not have been likely to be spelt in any other way by a French officer at the time.
Thus, the Marquis de la Fayette became simply Lafayette, and so with all other bearers of titles
in France. Consequently we should, by observing this little difference, remind ourselves of
Dentrecasteaux' period and circumstances.

That, however, is by the way, and our main concern for the present is with Laperouse.

As a boy, Jean-Francois developed a love for books of voyages, and dreamt, as a boy will, of
adventures that he would enjoy when he grew to manhood. A relative tells us that his imagination
was enkindled by reading of the recent discoveries of Anson. As he grew up, and himself sailed
the ocean in command of great ships, he continued to read all the voyaging literature he could
procure. The writings of Byron, Carteret, Wallis, Louis de Bougainville, "and above all Cook,"
are mentioned as those of his heroes. He "burned to follow in their footsteps."

It will be observed that, with one exception, the navigators who are especially described by
one of his own family as having influenced the bent of Laperouse were Englishmen. He did not,
of course, read all of their works in his boyhood, because some of them were published after
he had embraced a naval career. But we note them in this place, as the guiding stars by which
he shaped his course. He must have been a young man, already on the way to distinction as an
officer, when he came under the spell of Cook. "And above all Cook," says his relative. To
the end of his life, down to the final days of his very last voyage, Laperouse revered the
name of Cook. Every Australian reader will like him the better for that. Not many months before
his own life ended in tragedy and mystery, he visited the island where the great English sailor
was slain. When he reflected on the achievements of that wonderful career, he sat down in his
cabin and wrote in his Journal the passage of which the following is a translation. It is given
here out of its chronological order, but we are dealing with the influences that made Laperouse
what he was, and we can see from these sincere and feeling words, what Cook meant to him:

"Full of admiration and of respect as I am for the memory of that great man, he will always
be in my eyes the first of navigators. It is he who has determined the precise position of
these islands, who has explored their shores, who has made known the manners, customs and religion
of the inhabitants, and who has paid with his blood for all the light which we have to-day
concerning these peoples. I would call him the Christopher Columbus of these countries, of
the coast of Alaska, and of nearly all the isles of the South Seas. Chance might enable the
most ignorant man to discover islands, but it belongs only to great men like him to leave nothing
more to be done regarding the coasts they have found. Navigators, philosophers, physicians,
all find in his Voyages interesting and useful things which were the object of his concern.
All men, especially all navigators, owe a tribute of praise to his memory. How could one neglect
to pay it at the moment of coming upon the group of islands where he finished so unfortunately
his career?"

We can well understand that a lad whose head was full of thoughts of voyaging and adventure,
was not, as a schoolboy, very tame and easy to manage. He is described as having been ardent,
impetuous, and rather stubborn. But there is more than one kind of stubbornness. There is the
stupid stubbornness of the mule, and the fixed, firm will of the intelligent being. We can
perceive quite well what is meant in this case. On the other hand, he was affectionate, quick
and clever. He longed for the sea; and his father, observing his decided inclination, allowed
him to choose the profession he desired.

It may well have seemed to the parents of Laperouse at this time that fine prospects lay before
a gallant young gentleman who should enter the Marine. There was for the moment peace between
France and England. A truce had been made by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748. But everybody
knew that there would be war again soon. Both countries were struggling for the mastery in
India and in North America. The sense of rivalry was strong. Jealousies were fierce on both
sides. In India, the French power was wielded, and ever more and more extended, by the brilliant
Governor Dupleix; whilst in the British possessions the rising influence was that of the dashing,
audacious Clive. In North America the French were scheming to push their dominion down the
Ohio-Mississippi Valley from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, in the rear of the line of British
colonies planted on the seaboard from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Florida. The colonists were
determined to prevent them; and a young man named George Washington, who afterwards became
very famous, first rose into prominence in a series of tough struggles to thwart the French
designs. The points of collision between the two nations were so sharp, feeling on either side
was so bitter, the contending interests were so incapable of being reconciled, that it was
plain to all that another great war was bound to break out, and that sea power would play a
very important part in the issue. The young Laperouse wanted to go to sea, and his father wanted
him to distinguish himself and confer lustre on his name. The choice of a calling for him,
therefore, suited all the parties concerned.

He was a boy of fifteen when, in November, 1756, he entered the Marine service as a royal cadet.
He had not long to wait before tasting "delight of battle," for the expected war was declared
in May, and before he was much older he was in the thick of it.

Chapter II.

THE FRENCH NAVAL OFFICER.

Laperouse first obtained employment in the French navy in the CELEBRE, from March to November,
1757. From this date until his death, thirty-one years later, he was almost continuously engaged,
during peace and war, in the maritime service of his country. The official list of his appointments
contains only one blank year, 1764. He had then experienced close upon seven years of continuous
sea fighting and had served in as many ships: the CELEBRE, the POMONE, the ZEPHIR, the CERF,
the FORMIDABLE, the ROBUSTE, and the SIX CORPS. But the peace of Paris was signed in the early
part of 1763. After that, having been promoted to the rank of ensign, he had a rest.

It was not a popular peace on either side. In Paris there was a current phrase, "BETE COMME
LA PAIX," stupid as the peace. In England, the great Pitt was so indignant on account of its
conditions that, all swollen and pinched with gout as he was, he had himself carried to the
House of Commons, his limbs blanketted in bandages and his face contorted with pain, and, leaning
upon a crutch, denounced it in a speech lasting three hours and forty minutes. The people cheered
him to the echo when he came out to his carriage, and the vote favourable to the terms of the
treaty was carried by wholesale corruption. But all the same, Great Britain did very well out
of it, and both countries--though neither was satisfied--were for the time being tired of war.

For Laperouse the seven years had been full of excitement. The most memorable engagement in
which he took part was a very celebrated one, in November, 1759. A stirring ballad has been
written about it by Henry Newbolt:--

  "In seventeen hundred and fifty-nine
  When Hawke came swooping from the West,
  The French King's admiral with twenty of the line
  Came sailing forth to sack us out of Brest."

Laperouse's ship, the FORMIDABLE, was one of the French fleet of twenty-one sail. What happened
was this. The French foreign minister, Choiseul, had hatched a crafty plan for the invasion
of England, but before it could be executed the British fleet had to be cleared out of the
way. There was always that tough wooden wall with the hearts of oak behind it, standing solidly
in the path. It baffled Napoleon in the same fashion when he thought out an invasion plan in
the next century. The French Admiral, Conflans, schemed to lure Sir Edward Hawke into Quiberon
Bay, on the coast of Brittany. A strong westerly gale was blowing and was rapidly swelling
into a raging tempest. Conflans, piloted by a reliable guide who knew the Bay thoroughly, intended
to take up a fairly safe, sheltered position on the lee side, and hoped that the wind would
force Hawke, who was not familiar with the ground, on to the reefs and shoals, where his fleet
would be destroyed by the storm and the French guns together. But Hawke, whose name signally
represents the bold, swift, sure character of the man, understood the design, took the risk,
avoided the danger, and clutched the prey. Following the French as rapidly as wind and canvas
could take him, he caught their rearmost vessels, smashed them up, battered the whole fleet
successively into flight or splinters, and himself lost only two vessels, which ran upon a
shoal. Plodding prose does scant justice to the extraordinary brilliancy of Hawke's victory,
described by Admiral Mahan as "the Trafalgar of this war." We cannot pass on without quoting
one of Mr. Newbolt's graphic verses:--

  "'Twas long past the noon of a wild November day
  When Hawke came swooping from the west;
  He heard the breakers thundering in Quiberon Bay,
  But he flew the flag for battle, line abreast.
  Down upon the quicksands, roaring out of sight,
  Fiercely blew the storm wind, darkly fell the night,
  For they took the foe for pilot and the cannon's glare for light,
  When Hawke came swooping from the West."

"They took the foe for pilot:" that is a most excellent touch, both poetical and true.

The FORMIDABLE was the first to be disposed of in the fight. She was an 80-gun line-of-battle
ship, carrying the flag of Admiral du Verger. Her position being in the rear of the squadron,
she was early engaged by the RESOLUTION, and in addition received the full broadside of every
other British ship that passed her. The Admiral fell mortally wounded, and two hundred on board
were killed. She struck her colours at four o'clock after receiving a terrible battering, and
was the only French ship captured by Hawke's fleet. All the others were sunk, burnt, or beached,
or else escaped. The young Laperouse was amongst the wounded, though his hurts were not dangerous;
and, after a brief period spent in England as a prisoner of war, he returned to service.

An amusing rhyme in connection with this engagement is worth recalling. Supplies for Hawke's
fleet did not come to hand for a considerable time after they were due, and in consequence
the victorious crews had to be put on "short commons."

An interesting coincidence must also be noted. Thirty-five years later, only a few leagues
from the place where Laperouse first learnt what it meant to fight the British on the sea,
another young officer who was afterwards greatly concerned with Australasian exploration had
his introduction to naval warfare. It was in 1794 that Midshipman Matthew Flinders, on the
BELLEROPHON, Captain Pasley, played his valiant little part in a great fleet action off Brest.
Both of these youths, whose longing was for exploration and discovery, and who are remembered
by mankind in that connection, were cradled on the sea amidst the smoke and flame of battle,
both in the same waters.

During the next twenty-five years Laperouse saw a considerable amount of fighting in the East
and West Indies, and in Canadian waters. He was commander of the AMAZON, under D'Estaing, during
a period when events did not shape themselves very gloriously for British arms, not because
our admirals had lost their skill and nerve, or our seamen their grit and courage, but because
Governments at home muddled, squabbled, starved the navy, misunderstood the problem, and generally
made a mess of things. We need not follow him through the details of these years, but simply
note that Laperouse's dash and good seamanship won him a high reputation among French naval
officers, and brought him under the eye of the authorities who afterwards chose him to command
an expedition of discovery.

One incident must be recorded, because it throws a light on the character of Laperouse. In
1782, whilst serving under Admiral Latouche-Treville in the West, he was ordered to destroy
the British forts on the Hudson River. He attacked them with the SCEPTRE, 74 guns. The British
had been engaged in their most unfortunate war with the American Colonies, and in 1781, in
consequence of wretchedly bad strategy, had lost command of the sea. The French had been helping
the revolted Americans, not for love of them, but from enmity to their rivals. After the capitulation
of the British troops at Yorktown, a number of loyalists still held out under discouraging
conditions in Canada, and the French desired to dislodge them from the important waterway of
the Hudson.

Laperouse found little difficulty in fulfilling his mission, for the defence was weak and the
garrisons of the forts, after a brief resistance, fled to the woods. It was then that he did
a thing described in our principal naval history as an act of "kindness and humanity, rare
in the annals of war." Laperouse knew that if he totally destroyed the stores as well as the
forts, the unfortunate British, after he had left, would perish either from hunger or under
the tomahawks of the Red Indians. So he was careful to see that the food and clothing, and
a quantity of powder and small arms, were left untouched, for, as he nobly said, "An enemy
conquered should have nothing more to fear from a civilised foe; he then becomes a friend."

Some readers may like to see the verses in which a French poet has enshrined this incident.
For their benefit they are appended:--

  "Un jour ayant appris que les Anglais en fuite
  Se cachaient dans un bois redoutant la poursuite,
  Tu laissas sur la plage aux soldats affames,
  Par la peur affoles, en haillons, desarmes,
  Des vivres abondantes, des habits et des armes;
  Tu t'eloignas apres pour calmer leurs alarmes,
  Et quand on s'etonnait: 'Sachez qu' un ennemi
  Vaincu n'a rien a craindre, et devient un ami.'"

The passage may be rendered in English thus: "One day, having heard that the fleeing English
were hidden in a forest dreading pursuit, you left upon the shore for those soldiers--famished,
ragged, disarmed, and paralysed by fear--abundance of food, clothes and arms; then, to calm
their fears, you removed your forces to a distance; and, when astonishment was expressed, you
said: 'Understand that a beaten enemy has nothing to fear from us, and becomes a friend.'"

Chapter III.

THE LOVE STORY OF LAPEROUSE.

"My story is a romance"--"Mon histoire est un roman"--wrote Laperouse in relating the events
with which this chapter will deal. We have seen him as a boy; we have watched him in war; we
shall presently follow him as a navigator. But it is just as necessary to read his charming
love story, if we are to understand his character. Then it was the principal naval station
of the French in the Indian Ocean. There he met a beautiful girl, the daughter of one of the
subordinate officials at Port Louis. Louise Eleonore Broudou is said to have been "more than
pretty"; she was distinguished by grace of manner, charm of disposition, and fine, cultivated
character. The young officer saw her often, admired her much, fell in love with her, and asked
her to marry him. Mademoiselle loved him too; and if they two only had had to be consulted,
the happy union of a well-matched pair might have followed soon.

It signified little to Laperouse, in love, that the lady had neither rank nor fortune. But
his family in France took quite a different view. He wrote to a favourite sister, telling her
about it, and she lost no time in conveying the news to his parents. This was in 1775. Then
the trouble began.

Inasmuch as he was over thirty years of age at this time, it may be thought that he might have
been left to choose a wife for himself. But a young officer of rank in France, under the Old
Regime, was not so free in these matters as he would be nowadays. Marriage was much more than
a personal affair. It was even more than a family affair. People of rank did not so much marry
as "make alliances"--or rather, submit to having them made for them. It was quite a regular
thing for a marriage to be arranged by the families of two young people who had never even
seen each other. An example of that kind will appear presently.

The idea that the Comte de Laperouse, one of the smartest officers in the French King's navy,
should marry out of his rank and station, shocked his relatives and friends as much as it would
have done if he had been detected picking pockets. He could not, without grave risk of social
and professional ruin, marry until he had obtained the consent of his father, and--so naval
regulations required--of his official superiors. Both were firmly refused. Monsieur de Ternay,
who commanded on the Ile-de-France station, shook his wise head, and told the lover "that his
love fit would pass, and that people did not console themselves for being poor with the fact
that they were married." (This M. de Ternay, it may be noted, had commanded a French squadron
in Canada in 1762, and James Cook was a junior officer on the British squadron which blockaded
him in St. John's Harbour. He managed to slip out one night, much to the disgust of Colville,
the British Admiral, who commented scathingly on his "shameful flight.")

The father of Laperouse poured out his forbidding warnings in a long letter. Listen to the
"tut-tut" of the old gentleman at Albi:--

"You make me tremble, my son. How can you face with coolness the consequences of a marriage
which would bring you into disgrace with the Minister and would lose you the assistance of
powerful friends? You would forfeit the sympathies of your colleagues and would sacrifice the
fruit of your work during twenty years. In disgracing yourself you would humiliate your family
and your parents. You would prepare for yourself nothing but remorse; you would sacrifice your
fortune and position to a frivolous fancy for beauty and to pretended charms which perhaps
exist only in your own imagination. Neither honour nor probity compels you to meet ill-considered
engagements that you may have made with that person or with her parents. Do they or you know
that you are not free, that you are under my authority?" He went on to draw a picture of the
embarrassments that would follow such a marriage, and then there is a passage revealing the
cash-basis aspect of the old gentleman's objection: "You say that there are forty officers
in the Marine who have contracted marriages similar to that which you propose to make. You
have better models to follow, and in any case what was lacking on the side of birth, in these
instances, was compensated by fortune. Without that balance they would not have had the baseness
and imprudence to marry thus." Poor Eleonore had no compensating balance of that kind in her
favour. She was only beautiful, charming and sweet-natured. Therefore, "tut-tut, my son!"

In the course of the next few months Laperouse covered himself with glory by his services on
the AMAZON, the ASTREE, and the SCEPTRE, and he hoped that these exploits would incline his
father to accede to his ardent wish. But no; the old gentleman was as hard as a rock. He "tut-tutted"
with as much vigour as ever. The lovers had to wait.

