"When I think of this royal outlay, as you call it, which makes me spend from18,000 to 20,000
francs for nothing, I wish the devil had the system.... 10,000 francs which I have scattered
about the past fortnight, alarm and trouble me so much that I do not know how to calculate
my income in this way. In three days the difference (in the value of assignats) has sent wood
up from 4,200 to 6,500 francs, and extras in proportion so that, as I wrote you, a load piled
up and put away costs me 7,100 francs. Every week now, the pot-au-feu and other meats for ragouts,
without any butter, eggs and other details, cost from seven to eight hundred francs. Washing
also goes up so fast that eight thousand francs do not suffice. All this puts me out of humor,
while in all this expenditure I declare on my honor (je jure par la saine vérité de mon coeur)
that for two years I have indulged no fancy of my own or spent anything except on household
expenses. Nevertheless, I have urgent need of some things for which I should require piles
of assignats."--We see by Beaumarchais' correspondence that one of his friends travels around
in the environs of Paris to find bread. "It is said here (he writes from Soizy, June 5, 1795)
that flour may be had at Briare. If this were so I would bargain with a reliable man there
to carry it to you by water-carriage between Briare and Paris... In the mean time I do not
despair of finding a loaf."--Letter of a friend of Beaumarchais: "This letter costs you at
least one hundred francs, including paper, pen, ink, and lamp-oil. For economy's sake I write
it in your house."]

[Footnote 42142: Cf. Schmidt, "Tableaux de Paris," vols. II. and III. (Reports of the Police,
at the dates designated.)]

[Footnote 42143: Dauban, "Paris en 1794," pp.562, 568, 572.]

[Footnote 42144: Mallet-Dupan, "Correspondance avec la cour de Vienne," I., 254. (July 18, 1795.)]

[Footnote 42145: Schmidt, ibid. Ibid., 104. "Bread is made with coarse, sticky black flour,
because they put in potatoes, beans, Indian corn and millet, and moreover it is badly baked."--Granier
de Cassagnac, "Histoire du Directoire," I., 51. (Letter of M. Andot to the author.) "There
were three-quarter pound days, one-half pound and one-quarter pound days and many at two ounces.
I was a child of twelve and used to go and wait four hours in the morning in a line, rue de
l'Ancienne Comédie. There was a fourth part of bran in the bread, which was very tender and
very soft.... and it contained one-fourth excess of water. I brought back eight ounces of bread
a day for the four persons in our household."]

[Footnote 42148: Dauban, 586.]

[Footnote 42149: Schmidt, ibid. (Reports of Brumaire 24, and Frimaire 13, year IV.)]

[Footnote 42150: This state of misery is prolonged far beyond this epoch in Paris and the provinces.
~f. Schmidt, "Tableaux de Paris," vol. III.-Felix Rocquam, "L'Etat de la France au 18e Brumaire,"
p.156. (Report by Fourcroy, Nivôse 5, year IX.) Convoys of grain fail to reach Brest because
the English are masters at sea, while the roads on land are impassable. "we are assured that
the people of Brest have long been on half-rations and perhaps on quarter-rations."]

[Footnote 42151: 1st It is difficult to arrive at even approximate figures, but the following
statements will render the idea clear. I. Wherever I have compared the mortality of the Revolution
with that of the ancient regime I have found the former greater than the latter, even in those
parts of France not devastated by the civil war; and the increase of this mortality is enormous,
especially in years II. and III.--At Troyes, with 25,282 inhabitants (in 1790), during the
five years of 1786, 1787, 1788, 1789 and 1792 (1790 and 1791 are missing), the average annual
mortality is 991 deaths, or 39 per thousand inhabitants; during the years II, III, IV, this
average is 1,166 or 47 per thousand inhabitants; the increase is then 7 deaths per year, nearly
one fifth. (Documents provided by M. Albert Babeau.)--At Rheims, the average mortality from
1780 to 1789 is 1,350, which, for a population of 35,597, (1790), gives 41 deaths per annum
to every thousand inhabitants. In the year II., there are 1,836 deaths which gives for each
of the two years 64 deaths to every thousand persons; the increase is 23 deaths a year, that
is to say more than one-half above the ordinary rate. (Statistics communicated by M. Jadart,
archiviste at Rheims.)--At Limoges, the yearly average of mortality previous to 1789 was 825
to 20,000 inhabitants, or at the rate of 41 to a thousand. From January 1, 1792, to September
22, 1794, there are 3,449 deaths, that is to say, a yearly average of 63 deaths to one thousand
inhabitants, that is to say, 22 extra per annum, while the mortality bears mostly on the poor,
for out of 2,073 persons who die between January 17, 1793, and September 22, 1794, over one-half,
1,100, die in the hospital.--(Louis Guibert, "Ancien registre des paroisses de Limoges," pp.
40, 45, 47.)--At Poitiers, in year IX., the population is 18,223, and the average mortality
of the past ten years was 724 per annum. But in year II., there are 2,094 deaths, and in year
III. 2,032, largely in the hospitals. Thus, even on comparing the average mortality of the
ten years of the Revolution with the mortality of years II. and III., the average rate has
almost trebled.--The same applies to Loudens, where the average death-rate being 151, in year
II., it rises to 425. Instead of the triple for Chatellerault, it is double, where, the average
rate being 262, the death-rate rises to 482, principally in the military hospitals. ("Statistique
de la Vienne," by Cochon, préfet, year IX.)--At Niort, population 11,000, the annual mortality
of the ten years preceding 1793 averaged 423, or 38 per thousand. In year II., there are 1,872,
or 170 per thousand inhabitants, the number being more than quadrupled. In year III., there
are 1,122 deaths, or 122, which is almost the triple. ("Statistique des Deux-Sèvres," by Dupin,
prefet, 2nd memorial, year IX.)--At Strasbourg, ("Recueil des Pièces Authentiques," etc., vol.
I., p.32, declaration of the Municipality,) "twice as many died last year (year II.) as during
any of the preceding years."--According to these figures and the details we have read, the
annual mortality during years II. and III. and most of year IV., may be estimated as having
increased one-half extra. Now, previous to 1789, according to Moheau and Necker, (Peuchet,
"Statistique elementaire de la France," 1805, p.239,) the yearly mortality in France was one
person to every thirty, that is to say, 866,666 deaths to a population of 26 millions. One-half
in addition to this for two and a half years gives, consequently, one million and eighty thousand
deaths.]

2nd. During the whole of the Directory episode, privation lasted and the rate of mortality
rose very high, especially for sick children, the infirm and the aged, because the convention
had confiscated the possessions of the hospitals and public charity was almost null. For example,
at Lyons, "The Asylums having been deprived of sisters of charity during years II., III. and
IV., and most of year V., the children gathered into them could neither be fed nor suckled
and the number that perished was frightful." ("Statistique du Rhone," by Vernier, prefet, year
X.)--In Necker's time, there were about eight hundred asylums, hospitals and charitable institutions,
with one hundred thousand or one hundred and ten thousand inmates. (Peuchet, ibid., 256.) For
lack of care and food they die in myriads, especially foundlings, the number of which increases
enormously: in 1790, the figures do not exceed 23,000; in year IX., the number surpasses 62,000,
(Peuchet, 260): "It is a 'perfect deluge,'" say the reports; in the department of Aisne, there
are 1,097 instead of 400; in that of Lot-et-Garonne, fifteen hundred, (Statistiques des préfets
de l'Aisne, Gers, Lot-et-Garonne), and they are born only to die. In that of Eure, after a
few months, it is six out of seven; at Lyons, 792 out of 820; (Statistique des Prefets du Rhone
et de l'Eure). At Marseilles, it is ´600 out of 618; at Toulon, 101 out of 104; in the average,
19 out of 20. (Rocquam, "Etat de France au 18e Brumaire," p.33. Report of François de Nantes.)
At Troyes, out of 164 brought in in year IV., 134 die; out of 147 received in year VII., 136
die. (Albert Babeau, II., 452.) At Paris, in year IV., out of 3,122 infants received 2,907
perish. (Moniteur, year V., No. 231.)--The sick perish the same. "At Toulon, only seven pounds
of meat are given each day to eighty patients; I saw in the civil Asylum," says François de
Nantes, "a woman who had just undergone a surgical operation to whom they gave for a restorative
a dozen beans on a wooden platter." (Ibid., 16, 31, and passim, especially for Bordeaux, Caen,
Alençon, St. Lô, etc.)--As to beggars, these are innumerable: in year IX., it is estimated
that there are 3 or 4,000 by department, at least 300,000 in France. "In the four Brittany
departments one can truly say that a third of the population live at the expense of the other
two-thirds, either by stealing from them or through compelling assistance." (Rocquain, "Report
by Barbé-Marbois," p.93.)]

3rd. In year IX., the Consells-generaux are called upon to ascertain whether the departments
have increased or diminished in population since 1789. ("Analyse des procés-verbaux des Conseils-Generaux
de l'an XI." In four volumes.) Out of 58 which reply, 37 state that the population with them
has diminished; 12, that it has increased; 9, that it remains stationary. Of the 22 others,
13 attribute the maintenance or increase of population, at least for the most part, to the
multiplication of early marriages in order to avoid conscription and to the large number of
natural children.--Consequently, the average rate of population is kept up not through preserving
life, but through the substitution of new lives for the old ones that are sacrificed. Bordeaux,
nevertheless, lost one-tenth of its population, Angers one-eighth, Pau one-seventh, Chambery
one-fourth, Rennes one-third. In the departments where the civil-war was carried on, Argenton-Château
lost two-thirds of its population, Bressuire fell from 3,000 to 630 inhabitants; Lyons, after
the siege, fell from a population of 140,000 thousand to 80,000. ("Analyse des procés-verbaux
des Conseils-Generaux" and Statistiques des Prefets.")]

[Footnote 42152: Lareveillère-Lepeaux, "Mémoires." I, 248. (He belongs to the Committee and
is an eye-witness.)]

BOOK FIFTH. THE END OF THE REVOLUTIONARY GOVERNMENT.

CHAPTER I. THE CONVENTION.

I. The Convention.

     The Convention after Thermidor 9.--Reaction against the
     Terrorists.--Aversion to the Constitutionalists.--The danger
     they run if they lose power.

Nevertheless they too, these glutted sovereigns, are anxious, and very much so, we have just
seen why; it's a question of remaining in office in order to remain alive, and henceforth this
is their sole concern.--A good Jacobin, up to the 9th of Thermidor, could, by shutting his
eyes, still believe in his creed.[5101] After the 9th of Thermidor, unless born blind, like
Soubrany, Romme and Goujon, a fanatic whose intellectual organs are as rigid as the limbs of
a fakir, nobody in the Convention can any longer believe in the Contrat-Social, in a despotic
equalizing socialism, in the merits of Terror, in the divine right of the pure. For, to escape
the guillotine of the pure, the purest had to be guillotined, Saint-Just, Couthon and Robespierre,
the high-priest of the sect. That very day the "Montagnards," in giving up their doctor, abandoned
their principles, and there is no longer any principle or man to which the Convention could
rally. In effect, before guillotining Robespierre and his associates as orthodox, it guillotined
the Girondins, Hébert and Danton, as heretics. Now, "the existence of popular idols and of
head charlatans is irrevocably ended."[5102] Ever the same conventional symbol before the empty
sanctuary in the blood-stained temple, and ever the same loud-intoned anthem; but faith is
gone, and only the acolytes remain to drone out the revolutionary litany, old train-bearers
and swingers of incense, the subaltern butchers who, through a sudden stroke, have become pontiffs;
in short, the valets of the church who have donned the mitres and croziers of their masters
after having assassinated them.

From month to month, under the pressure of public opinion, they detach themselves from the
worship at which they have officiated, for, however blunted or perverted their consciences,
they cannot avoid admitting that Jacobinism, as they have practiced it, was the religion of
robbery and murder. Previous to Thermidor an official phraseology[5103] drowned with its doctrinal
roar the living truth, while each Conventional sacristan or beadle, confined to his own chapel,
saw clearly only the human sacrifices in which he himself had taken part. After Thermidor,
the friends and kindred of the dead, the oppressed, make their voices heard, and he is forced
to see collectively and in detail all the crimes to which, nearly or remotely, he has contributed
either through his assent or through his vote, the same as in Mexico, the priest of Huichilobos
walks about in the midst of the six hundred thousand skulls amassed in the vaults of his temple.--In
quick succession, during the whole of year III., through the freedom of the press and the great
public discussions, the truth becomes known. First, comes an account of the funereal journey
of one hundred and thirty-two Nantese, dragged from Nantes to Paris,[5104] and the solemn acquittal,
received with transports, of the ninety-four who survive. After this, come the trials of the
most prominent terrorists, that of Carrier and the Revolutionary Committee of Nantes, that
of Fouquier-Tinville and the old revolutionary Tribunal of Paris, that of Joseph Lebon,[5105]
and, during thirty or forty consecutive sessions, hundreds of minute, verified depositions
ending in the most complete and satisfactory testimony.--In the mean time, revelations multiply
at the tribune of the Convention; these consist of the letters of the new representatives on
mission and the denunciations of the towns against their overthrown tyrants; against Maignet,
Dartigoyte, Piochefer-Bernard, Levasseur, Crassous, Javogues, Lequinio, Lefiot, Piorry, Pinet,
Monestier, Fouché, Laplanche, Lecarpentier, and many others. Add to these the reports of commissions
charged with examining into the conduct of old dictators, Collot d'Herbois, Billaud-Varennes,
Barère, Amar, Vouland, Vadier and David, the reports of the representatives charged with investigating
certain details of the abolished system, that of Grégoire on revolutionary vandalism, that
of Cambon on revolutionary taxes, that of Courtois on Robespierre's papers.--All these rays
combine in a terrible illumination which imposes itself even on the eyes that turn away from
it: It is now but too plain that France, for fourteen months, has been devastated by a gang
of bandits. All that can be said in favor of the least perverted and the least vile is that
they were born so, or had become crazy.[5106]--The majority of the Convention cannot evade
this growing testimony and the Montagnards excite its horror; and all the more, because it
bears them a grudge: the 73 who were imprisoned and the sixteen who were proscribed have resumed
their seats, the 400 silent who have for so long held their seats under the knife, remember
the oppression to which they have been subject. They now recover and turn first against the
most tainted scoundrels, and then against the members of the old committees.--Whereupon the
"Mountain," as was its custom, launches its customary supporters, the starved populace, the
Jacobin rabble, in the riots of Germinal and Prairial, in year III., and proclaims anew the
reign of Terror; the Convention again sees the knife over its head. Saved by young men, by
the National Guard, it becomes courageous through fear, and, in its turn, it terrorizes the
terrorists. The Faubourg Saint-Antoine is disarmed, ten thousand Jacobins are arrested,[5107]
and more than sixty Montagnards are decreed under indictment; Collot, Billaud, Barère and Vadier
are to be deported; nine other members of former committees are to be imprisoned. The last
of the veritable fanatics, Romme, Goujon, Soubrany, Duquesnoy, Bourbotte and Duroy are condemned
to death, Immediately after the sentence five of them stab themselves on the stairs of the
tribunal; two of the wounded who survive are borne, along with the sixth, to the scaffold and
guillotined. Two Montagnards of the same stamp, Rhul and Maure, kill themselves before their
sentence.--Henceforth the purged Convention regards itself as pure; its final rigor has expiated
its former baseness, the guilty blood which it spills washing away the stains of the innocent
blood it had shed before.

Unfortunately, in condemning the terrorists, it pronounced its own condemnation; for it has
authorized and sanctioned all their crimes. On its benches, in its committees, often in the
president's chair, at the head of the ruling coterie, still figure the members of the revolutionary
government, many of the avowed terrorists like Bourdon de l'Oise, Bentabolle, Delmas, and Reubell;
presidents of the September commune like Marie Chénier; those who carried out "the 31st of
May," like Legendre and Merlin de Douai, author of the decree which created six hundred thousand
suspects in France; provincial executioners of the most brutal and most ferocious sort, the
greatest and most cynical robbers like André Dumont, Fréron, Tallien and Barras. Under Robespierre,
the four hundred mutes "du ventre" were the reporters, the voters, the claqueurs, and the agents
of the worst decrees against religion, property and persons. The foundations of Terror were
all laid by the seventy-three in confinement before they were imprisoned, and by the sixteen
who were proscribed before their proscription. Excepting ten or a dozen who stayed away, the
Convention, in a mass, pronounced judgment against the King and declared him guilty; more than
one-half of the Convention, the Girondists at the head of them, voted his death. The hall does
not contain fifty honorable men in whom character sustains conscience, and who had a right
to carry their heads erect.[5108] In no law they passed, good or bad, did the other seven hundred
have in view the interests of their constituents. In all their laws, good or bad, they solely
regarded their own interests. So long as the attacks of the "Mountain" and of the rabble affected
the public only, they lauded them, decreed them and had them executed. If they finally rebelled
against the "Mountain," and against the rabble, it was at the last moment, and solely to save
their lives. Before, as after the 9th of Thermidor, before, as after the 1st of Prairial, the
incentives of the conduct of these pusillanimous oppressors or involuntary liberators were
baseness and egoism. Hence, "the contempt and horror universally poured out against them; only
Jacobins could be still more odious!"[5109] If further support is given to these faithless
mandatories, it is because they are soon to be put out. On the premature report that the Convention
is going to break up, people accost each other in the street, exclaiming, "We are rid of these
brigands, they are going at last... People caper and dance about as if they could not repress
their joy; they talk of nothing but the boy, (Louis XVIII. confined in the Temple), and the
new elections. Everybody agrees on excluding the present deputies.... There is less discussion
on the crimes which each has committed than on the insignificance of the entire assemblage,
while the epithets of vicious, used up and corrupt have almost wholly given way to thieves
and scoundrels."[5110] Even in Paris, during the closing months of their rule, they hardly
dare appear in public: "in the dirtiest and most careless costume which the tricolor scarf
and gold fringe makes more apparent, they try to escape notice in the crowd[5111] and, in spite
of their modesty, do not always avoid insult and still less the maledictions of those who pass
them."--In the provinces, at home, it would be worse for them; their lives would be in danger;
in any event, they would be dragged through the gutter, and this they know. Save about "twenty
of them," all who are not to succeed in entering the new Corps Legislatif, will intrigue for
offices in Paris and become "state messengers, employees in bureaux, and ushers to ministers;"
in default of other places they would accept those of "hall-sweeps." Any refuge for them is
good against the reprobation of the public, which is already rising and submerging them under
its tide.

II. Re-election of the Two-thirds.

     Decrees for the re-election of the Two-thirds.--Small number
     of Voters.--Maneuvers for preventing electors from voting on
     the decrees.--Frauds in the returns of votes.--Maintenance
     of the decrees by force.--Recruiting of the Roughs.--The
     military employed.--The 13th of Vendémaire.

There is no other refuge for them except in supreme power, and no other means for maintaining
this but in the excesses of despotism, dishonesty, mendacity and violence. In the Constitution
they manufacture, they desire to remain the sovereigns of France and they decree[5112] at once
that, willingly or not, France must select two-thirds of its new representatives from amongst
them, and, that she may make a good selection, it is prudent to impose the selection upon her.
There is a show, indeed, of consulting her in the special decrees which deprive her of two-thirds
of her elective rights but, as in 1792 and in 1793, it is so contrived that she consents, or
seems to consent, to this arrangement.[5113]--In the first place, they relied on the majority
of electors abstaining from a response. Experience indeed, had shown that, for a long time,
the masses were disgusted with the plebiscite farces; moreover, terror has stifled in individuals
all sentiment of a common interest;[5114] each cares for himself alone. Since Thermidor, electors
and mayors in the boroughs and in the rural districts are found with a good deal of difficulty,
even electors of the second degree; people saw that it was useless and even dangerous to perform
the duties of a citizen; they would have nothing to do with public functions. A foreigner writes,[5115]
after traversing France from Bourg-en-Bresse to Paris: "Ninety times out of a hundred that
I have asked the question,

'Citizen, what was done in the primary meeting of your canton?'

the answer would be:

'Me, citizen, what have I to do with it? I' faith, they had hard work to agree!'

Or,

'What's the use? There were not many there! Honest folks stayed at home.'"

In fact, out of at least six million electors convoked, five millions do not come near the
ballot-box, there being no embarrassment in this matter as they do not vote.[5116]

In the second place, precautions have been taken to prevent those who come to vote on the Constitution
from entertaining the idea of voting on the decrees. No article of the Constitution, nor in
the decrees, calls upon them to do so; slight inducement is held out to them to come, in a
vague style, through an oratorical interrogation, or in a tardy address.[5117]--In addition
to this, on the printed blanks sent to them from Paris, they find but three columns, one for
the number of votes accepting the Constitution, another for the number rejecting it, and the
third for "written observations" in case there are any. There are no special columns for marking
the number of votes accepting or rejecting the decrees. Thereupon, many illiterate or ill-informed
electors might think that they were convoked to vote solely on the Constitution and not at
all on the decrees, which is just what happened, and especially in the remote departments,
and in the rural assemblies. Moreover, many assemblies, nearer Paris and in the towns, comprehend
that if the Convention consults them it is only for form's sake; to give a negative answer
is useless and perilous; it is better to keep silent; as soon as the decrees are mentioned
they very prudently "unanimously" demand the order of the day.[5118] Hence out of five primary
assemblies on the average which vote for or against the Constitution, there is only one which
votes for or against the decrees.[5119]--Such is the mode of getting at the voice of the nation.
Apparently, it is induced to speak; in practice, its silence is ensured.

The last and most ingenious expedient of all: when a primary assembly speaks too loudly it
is taken for granted that it kept silent. In Paris, where the electors are more clear sighted
and more decided than in the provinces, in eighteen well-known departments, and probably in
many others, the electors who voted on the decrees almost all voted against them; in many cases,
even their minutes state that the negative vote was "unanimous," but the minutes fail to state
the exact number of the noes. On this, in the total of noes hostile to the decrees, these noes
are not counted.[5120] Through this trickery, the Convention, in Paris alone, reduced the number
of negatives by 50,000 and the same in the provinces, after the fashion of a dishonest steward
who, obliged to hand in an account, falsifies the figures by substituting subtractions for
additions.-Such is the way, in relation to the decrees, in which, out of the 300,000 votes
which it accepts, it is able to announce 200,000 yeas and 100,000 noes and thus proclaim that
its master, the sovereign people, after giving it a general acquittance, a discharge in full,
invests it anew with its confidence and expressly continues its mandate.

It now remains to keep by force this power usurped by fraud.--Immediately after the suppression
of the Jacobin riots the Convention, menaced on the right, turns over to the left; it requires
allies, persons of executive ability. It takes them wherever it can find them, from the faction
which decimated it before Thermidor and which, since Thermidor, it decimates. Consequently,
its executive committee suspends all proceedings begun against the principal "Montagnards;"
a number of terrorists, former presidents of the sections, "the matadors of the quarter," arrested
after Prairial 1, are set free at the end of a month. They have good arms, are accustomed to
vigorous striking without giving warning, especially when honest folks are to be knocked down
or ripped open. The stronger public opinion is against the government the more does the government
rely on men with bludgeons and pikes, on the strikers "turned out of the primary assemblies,"
on the heroes of September 2 and May 31, dangerous nomads, inmates of Bicêtre, paid assassins
out of employment, and roughs of the Quinze-Vingts and faubourg Saint--Antoine.[5121] Finally
on the 11th of Vendémiaire, it gathers together fifteen or eighteen hundred of them and arms
them in battalions.[5122] Such brigands are they, that Menon, "major-general of the army of
the interior and commandant of the armed force of Paris," comes the next day with several of
his staff-officers and tells the Committee of Five that he "will not have such bandits in his
army nor under his orders". "I will not march with a lot of rascals and assassins organized
in battalions "under the name of "patriots of '89." Indeed, the true patriots of '89 are on
the other side, the constitutionalists of 1791, sincere liberals, "forty thousand proprietors
and merchants," the elite and mass of the Parisian population,[5123] "the majority of men really
interested in public matters," and at this moment, the common welfare is all that concerns
them. Republic or royalty is merely a secondary thought, an idea in the back-ground; nobody
dreams of restoring the ancient régime; but very few are preoccupied with the restoration of
a limited monarchy.[5124] "On asking those most in earnest what government they would like
in place of the Convention, they reply 'We want that no longer, we want nothing belonging to
it; we want the Republic and honest people for our rulers.'"[5125]--That is all; their uprisal
is not a political insurrection against the form of the government, but a moral insurrection
against the criminals in office. Hence, on seeing the Convention arm their old executioners,
"the tigers" of the Reign of Terror, admitted malefactors, against them, they cannot contain
themselves.[5126] "That day," says a foreigner, who visited many public places in Paris, "I
saw everywhere the deepest despair, the greatest expression of rage and fury.... Without that
unfortunate order the insurrection would probably not have broken out." If they take up arms
it is because they are brought back under the pikes of the Septembriseurs, and under Robespierre's
axe.--But they are only national guards; most of them have no guns;[5127] they are in want
of gunpowder, those who have any having only five or six charges; "the great majority do not
think of fighting;" they imagine that "their presence is merely needed to enforce a petition;"
they have no artillery, no positive leader; it is simply excitement, precipitation, disorder
and mistaken maneuvers.[5128] On the contrary, on the side of the Convention, with Henriot's
old bullies, there are eight or nine thousand regular troops, and Bonaparte; his cannon, which
rake the rue Saint Honoré and the Quai Voltaire, mow down five or six hundred sectionists.
The rest disperse, and henceforth the check-mated Parisians are not to take up their guns against
the Jacobin faction whatever it does.

III. A Directory of Regicides.

     The Directory chosen among the regicides.--It selects agents
     of its own species.--Leading Jacobins are deprived of their
     civic rights.--The Terrorists are set free and restored to
     their civic rights.--Example at Blois of these releases and
     of the new administrative staff.

