"My love," he said, "it is a matter in which you must judge for yourself. Did I doubt your
conduct, I should interfere; but I do not."

"Conduct! Is conduct everything? One may conduct oneself excellently, and yet break one's heart."

This was too much for the doctor; his sternness and firmness instantly deserted him. "Mary,"
he said, "I will do anything that you would have me. If you wish it, I will make arrangements
for leaving this place at once."

"Oh, no," she said, plaintively.

"When you tell me of a broken heart, you almost break my own. Come to me, darling; do not leave
me so. I will say all that I can say. I have thought, do still think, that circumstances will
admit of your marriage with Frank if you both love each other, and can both be patient."

"You think so," said she, unconsciously sliding her hand into his, as though to thank him by
its pressure for the comfort he was giving her.

"I do think so now more than ever. But I only think so; I have been unable to assure you. There,
darling, I must not say more; only that I cannot bear to see you grieving, I would not have
said this:" and then he left her, and nothing more was spoken on the subject.

If you can be patient! Why, a patience of ten years would be as nothing to her. Could she but
live with the knowledge that she was first in his estimation, dearest in his heart; could it
be also granted to her to feel that she was regarded as his equal, she could be patient for
ever. What more did she want than to know and feel this? Patient, indeed!

But what could these circumstances be to which her uncle had alluded? "I do think that circumstances
will admit of your marriage." Such was his opinion, and she had never known him to be wrong.
Circumstances! What circumstances? Did he perhaps mean that Mr Gresham's affairs were not so
bad as they had been thought to be? If so, that alone would hardly alter the matter, for what
could she give in return? "I would give him the world for one word of love," she said to herself,
"and never think that he was my debtor. Ah! how beggarly the heart must be that speculates
on such gifts as those!"

But there was her uncle's opinion: he still thought that they might be married. Oh, why had
she sent her letter? and why had she made it so cold? With such a letter as that before him,
Frank could not do other than consent to her proposal. And then, why did he not at least answer it?

On the Sunday afternoon there arrived at Greshamsbury a man and a horse from Boxall Hill, bearing
a letter from Lady Scatcherd to Dr Thorne, earnestly requesting the doctor's immediate attendance.
"I fear everything is over with poor Louis," wrote the unhappy mother. "It has been very dreadful.
Do come to me; I have no other friend, and I am nearly worn through with it. The man from the
city"--she meant Dr Fillgrave--"comes every day, and I dare say he is all very well, but he
has never done much good. He has not had spirit enough to keep the bottle from him; and it
was that, and that only, that most behoved to be done. I doubt you won't find him in this world
when you arrive here."

Dr Thorne started immediately. Even though he might have to meet Dr Fillgrave, he could not
hesitate, for he went not as a doctor to the dying man, but as the trustee under Sir Roger's
will. Moreover, as Lady Scatcherd had said, he was her only friend, and he could not desert
her at such a moment for an army of Fillgraves. He told Mary he should not return that night;
and taking with him a small saddle-bag, he started at once for Boxall Hill.

As he rode up to the hall door, Dr Fillgrave was getting into his carriage. They had never
met so as to speak to each other since that memorable day, when they had their famous passage
of arms in the hall of that very house before which they both now stood. But, at the present
moment, neither of them was disposed to renew the fight.

"What news of your patient, Dr Fillgrave?" said our doctor, still seated on his sweating horse,
and putting his hand lightly to his hat.

Dr Fillgrave could not refrain from one moment of supercilious disdain: he gave one little
chuck to his head, one little twist to his neck, one little squeeze to his lips, and then the
man within him overcame the doctor. "Sir Louis is no more," he said.

"God's will be done!" said Dr Thorne.

"His death is a release; for his last days have been very frightful. Your coming, Dr Thorne,
will be a comfort to Lady Scatcherd." And then Dr Fillgrave, thinking that even the present
circumstances required no further condescension, ensconced himself in the carriage.

"His last days have been very dreadful! Ah, me, poor fellow! Dr Fillgrave, before you go, allow
me to say this: I am quite aware that when he fell into your hands, no medical skill in the
world could save him."

Dr Fillgrave bowed low from the carriage, and after this unwonted exchange of courtesies, the
two doctors parted, not to meet again--at any rate, in the pages of this novel. Of Dr Fillgrave,
let it now be said, that he grows in dignity as he grows in years, and that he is universally
regarded as one of the celebrities of the city of Barchester.

Lady Scatcherd was found sitting alone in her little room on the ground-floor. Even Hannah
was not with her, for Hannah was now occupied upstairs. When the doctor entered the room, which
he did unannounced, he found her seated on a chair, with her back against one of the presses,
her hands clasped together over her knees, gazing into vacancy. She did not ever hear him or
see him as he approached, and his hand had slightly touched her shoulder before she knew that
she was not alone. Then, she looked up at him with a face so full of sorrow, so worn with suffering,
that his own heart was racked to see her.

"It is all over, my friend," said he. "It is better so; much better so."

She seemed at first hardly to understand him, but still regarding him with that wan face, shook
her head slowly and sadly. One might have thought that she was twenty years older than when
Dr Thorne last saw her.

He drew a chair to her side, and sitting by her, took her hand in his. "It is better so, Lady
Scatcherd; better so," he repeated. "The poor lad's doom had been spoken, and it is well for
him, and for you, that it should be over."

"They are both gone now," said she, speaking very low; "both gone now. Oh, doctor! To be left
alone here, all alone!"

He said some few words trying to comfort her; but who can comfort a widow bereaved of her child?
Who can console a heart that has lost all that it possessed? Sir Roger had not been to her
a tender husband; but still he had been the husband of her love. Sir Louis had not been to
her an affectionate son; but still he had been her child, her only child. Now they were both
gone. Who can wonder that the world should be a blank to her?

Still the doctor spoke soothing words, and still he held her hand. He knew that his words could
not console her; but the sounds of his kindness at such desolate moments are, to such minds
as hers, some alleviation of grief. She hardly answered him, but sat there staring out before
her, leaving her hand passively to him, and swaying her head backwards and forwards as though
her grief were too heavy to be borne.

At last, her eye rested on an article which stood upon the table, and she started up impetuously
from her chair. She did this so suddenly, that the doctor's hand fell beside him before he
knew that she had risen. The table was covered with all those implements which become so frequent
about a house when severe illness is an inhabitant there. There were little boxes and apothecaries'
bottles, cups and saucers standing separate, and bowls, in which messes have been prepared
with the hope of suiting a sick man's failing appetite. There was a small saucepan standing
on a plate, a curiously shaped glass utensil left by the doctor, and sundry pieces of flannel,
which had been used in rubbing the sufferer's limbs. But in the middle of the débris stood
one black bottle, with head erect, unsuited to the companionship in which it was found.

"There," she said, rising up, and seizing this in a manner that would have been ridiculous
had it not been so truly tragic. "There, that has robbed me of everything--of all that I ever
possessed; of husband and child; of the father and son; that has swallowed them both--murdered
them both! Oh, doctor! that such a thing as that should cause such bitter sorrow! I have hated
it always, but now--Oh, woe is me! weary me!" And then she let the bottle drop from her hand
as though it were too heavy for her.

"This comes of their barro-niting," she continued. "If they had let him alone, he would have
been here now, and so would the other one. Why did they do it? why did they do it? Ah, doctor!
people such as us should never meddle with them above us. See what has come of it; see what
has come of it!"

The doctor could not remain with her long, as it was necessary that he should take upon himself
the direction of the household, and give orders for the funeral. First of all, he had to undergo
the sad duty of seeing the corpse of the deceased baronet. This, at any rate, may be spared
to my readers. It was found to be necessary that the interment should be made very quickly,
as the body was already nearly destroyed by alcohol. Having done all this, and sent back his
horse to Greshamsbury, with directions that clothes for a journey might be sent to him, and
a notice that he should not be home for some days, he again returned to Lady Scatcherd.

Of course he could not but think much of the immense property which was now, for a short time,
altogether in his own hands. His resolution was soon made to go at once to London and consult
the best lawyer he could find--or the best dozen lawyers should such be necessary--as to the
validity of Mary's claims. This must be done before he said a word to her or to any of the
Gresham family; but it must be done instantly, so that all suspense might be at an end as soon
as possible. He must, of course, remain with Lady Scatcherd till the funeral should be over;
but when that office should be complete, he would start instantly for London.

In resolving to tell no one as to Mary's fortune till after he had fortified himself with legal
warranty, he made one exception. He thought it rational that he should explain to Lady Scatcherd
who was now the heir under her husband's will; and he was the more inclined to do so, from
feeling that the news would probably be gratifying to her. With this view, he had once or twice
endeavoured to induce her to talk about the property, but she had been unwilling to do so.
She seemed to dislike all allusions to it, and it was not till she had incidentally mentioned
the fact that she would have to look for a home, that he was able to fix her to the subject.
This was on the evening before the funeral; on the afternoon of which day he intended to proceed
to London.

"It may probably be arranged that you may continue to live here," said the doctor.

"I don't wish it at all," said she, rather sharply. "I don't wish to have any arrangements
made. I would not be indebted to any of them for anything. Oh, dear! if money could make it
all right, I should have enough of that."

"Indebted to whom, Lady Scatcherd? Who do you think will be the owner of Boxall Hill?"

"Indeed, then, Dr Thorne, I don't much care: unless it be yourself, it won't be any friend
of mine, or any one I shall care to make a friend of. It isn't so easy for an old woman like
me to make new friends."

"Well, it certainly won't belong to me."

"I wish it did, with all my heart. But even then, I would not live here. I have had too many
troubles here to wish to see more."

"That shall be just as you like, Lady Scatcherd; but you will be surprised to hear that the
place will--at least I think it will--belong to a friend of yours: to one to whom you have
been very kind."

"And who is he, doctor? Won't it go to some of those Americans? I am sure I never did anything
kind to them; though, indeed, I did love poor Mary Scatcherd. But that's years upon years ago,
and she is dead and gone now. Well, I begrudge nothing to Mary's children. As I have none of
my own, it is right they should have the money. It has not made me happy; I hope it may do
so to them."

"The property will, I think, go to Mary Scatcherd's eldest child. It is she whom you have known
as Mary Thorne."

"Doctor!" And then Lady Scatcherd, as she made the exclamation, put both her hands down to
hold her chair, as though she feared the weight of her surprise would topple her off her seat.

"Yes; Mary Thorne--my Mary--to whom you have been so good, who loves you so well; she, I believe,
will be Sir Roger's heiress. And it was so that Sir Roger intended on his deathbed, in the
event of poor Louis's life being cut short. If this be so, will you be ashamed to stay here
as the guest of Mary Thorne? She has not been ashamed to be your guest."

But Lady Scatcherd was now too much interested in the general tenor of the news which she had
heard to care much about the house which she was to inhabit in future. Mary Thorne, the heiress
of Boxall Hill! Mary Thorne, the still living child of that poor creature who had so nearly
died when they were all afflicted with their early grief! Well; there was consolation, there
was comfort in this. There were but three people left in the world that she could love: her
foster-child, Frank Gresham--Mary Thorne, and the doctor. If the money went to Mary, it would
of course go to Frank, for she now knew that they loved each other; and if it went to them,
would not the doctor have his share also; such share as he might want? Could she have governed
the matter, she would have given it all to Frank; and now it would be as well bestowed.

Yes; there was consolation in this. They both sat up more than half the night talking over
it, and giving and receiving explanations. If only the council of lawyers would not be adverse!
That was now the point of suspense.

The doctor, before he left her, bade her hold her peace, and say nothing of Mary's fortune
to any one till her rights had been absolutely acknowledged. "It will be nothing not to have
it," said the doctor; "but it would be very bad to hear it was hers, and then to lose it."

On the next morning, Dr Thorne deposited the remains of Sir Louis in the vault prepared for
the family in the parish church. He laid the son where a few months ago he had laid the father,--and
so the title of Scatcherd became extinct. Their race of honour had not been long.

After the funeral, the doctor hurried up to London, and there we will leave him.

CHAPTER XLIV

Saturday Evening and Sunday Morning

We must now go back a little and describe how Frank had been sent off on special business to
London. The household at Greshamsbury was at this time in but a doleful state. It seemed to
be pervaded, from the squire down to the scullery-maid, with a feeling that things were not
going well; and men and women, in spite of Beatrice's coming marriage, were grim-visaged, and
dolorous. Mr Mortimer Gazebee, rejected though he had been, still went and came, talking much
to the squire, much also to her ladyship, as to the ill-doings which were in the course of
projection by Sir Louis; and Frank went about the house with clouded brow, as though finally
resolved to neglect his one great duty.

Poor Beatrice was robbed of half her joy: over and over again her brother asked her whether
she had yet seen Mary, and she was obliged as often to answer that she had not. Indeed, she
did not dare to visit her friend, for it was hardly possible that they should sympathise with
each other. Mary was, to say the least, stubborn in her pride; and Beatrice, though she could
forgive her friend for loving her brother, could not forgive the obstinacy with which Mary
persisted in a course which, as Beatrice thought, she herself knew to be wrong.

And then Mr Gazebee came down from town, with an intimation that it behoved the squire himself
to go up that he might see certain learned pundits, and be badgered in his own person at various
dingy, dismal chambers in Lincoln's Inn Fields, the Temple, and Gray's Inn Lane. It was an
invitation exactly of that sort which a good many years ago was given to a certain duck.

"Will you, will you--will you, will you--come and be killed?" Although Mr Gazebee urged the
matter with such eloquence, the squire remained steady to his objection, and swam obstinately
about his Greshamsbury pond in any direction save that which seemed to lead towards London.

This occurred on the very evening of that Friday which had witnessed the Lady Arabella's last
visit to Dr Thorne's house. The question of the squire's necessary journey to the great fountains
of justice was, of course, discussed between Lady Arabella and Mr Gazebee; and it occurred
to the former, full as she was of Frank's iniquity and of Mary's obstinacy, that if Frank were
sent up in lieu of his father, it would separate them at least for a while. If she could only
get Frank away without seeing his love, she might yet so work upon him, by means of the message
which Mary had sent, as to postpone, if not break off, this hateful match. It was inconceivable
that a youth of twenty-three, and such a youth as Frank, should be obstinately constant to
a girl possessed of no great beauty--so argued Lady Arabella to herself--and who had neither
wealth, birth, nor fashion to recommend her.

And thus it was at last settled--the squire being a willing party to the agreement--that Frank
should go up and be badgered in lieu of his father. At his age it was possible to make it appear
a thing desirable, if not necessary--on account of the importance conveyed--to sit day after
day in the chambers of Messrs Slow & Bideawhile, and hear musty law talk, and finger dusty
law parchments. The squire had made many visits to Messrs Slow & Bideawhile, and he knew better.
Frank had not hitherto been there on his own bottom, and thus he fell easily into the trap.

Mr Oriel was also going to London, and this was another reason for sending Frank. Mr Oriel
had business of great importance, which it was quite necessary that he should execute before
his marriage. How much of this business consisted in going to his tailor, buying a wedding-ring,
and purchasing some other more costly present for Beatrice, we need not here inquire. But Mr
Oriel was quite on Lady Arabella's side with reference to this mad engagement, and as Frank
and he were now fast friends, some good might be done in that way. "If we all caution him against
it, he can hardly withstand us all!" said Lady Arabella to herself.

The matter was broached to Frank on the Saturday evening, and settled between them all the
same night. Nothing, of course, was at that moment said about Mary; but Lady Arabella was too
full of the subject to let him go to London without telling him that Mary was ready to recede
if only he would allow her to do so. About eleven o'clock, Frank was sitting in his own room,
conning over the difficulties of the situation--thinking of his father's troubles, and his
own position--when he was roused from his reverie by a slight tap at the door.

"Come in," said he, somewhat loudly. He thought it was one of his sisters, who were apt to
visit him at all hours and for all manner of reasons; and he, though he was usually gentle
to them, was not at present exactly in a humour to be disturbed.

The door gently opened, and he saw his mother standing hesitating in the passage.

"Can I come in, Frank?" said she.

"Oh, yes, mother; by all means:" and then, with some surprise marked in his countenance, he
prepared a seat for her. Such a visit as this from Lady Arabella was very unusual; so much
so, that he had probably not seen her in his own room since the day when he first left school.
He had nothing, however, to be ashamed of; nothing to conceal, unless it were an open letter
from Miss Dunstable which he had in his hand when she entered, and which he somewhat hurriedly
thrust into his pocket.

"I wanted to say a few words to you, Frank, before you start for London about this business."
Frank signified by a gesture, that he was quite ready to listen to her.

"I am so glad to see your father putting the matter into your hands. You are younger than he
is; and then--I don't know why, but somehow your father has never been a good man of business--everything
has gone wrong with him."

"Oh, mother! do not say anything against him."

"No, Frank, I will not; I do not wish it. Things have been unfortunate, certainly. Ah me! I
little thought when I married--but I don't mean to complain--I have excellent children, and
I ought to be thankful for that."

Frank began to fear that no good could be coming when his mother spoke in that strain. "I will
do the best I can," said he, "up in town. I can't help thinking myself that Mr Gazebee might
have done as well, but--"

"Oh, dear no; by no means. In such cases the principal must show himself. Besides, it is right
you should know how matters stand. Who is so much interested in it as you are? Poor Frank!
I so often feel for you when I think how the property has dwindled."

"Pray do not mind me, mother. Why should you talk of it as my matter while my father is not
yet forty-five? His life, so to speak, is as good as mine. I can do very well without it; all
I want is to be allowed to settle to something."

"You mean a profession."

"Yes; something of that sort."

"They are so slow, dear Frank. You, who speak French so well--I should think my brother might
get you in as attaché to some embassy."

"That wouldn't suit me at all," said Frank.

"Well, we'll talk about that some other time. But I came about something else, and I do hope
you will hear me."

Frank's brow again grew black, for he knew that his mother was about to say something which
it would be disagreeable for him to hear.

"I was with Mary, yesterday."

"Well, mother?"

"Don't be angry with me, Frank; you can't but know that the fate of an only son must be a subject
of anxiety to a mother." Ah! how singularly altered was Lady Arabella's tone since first she
had taken upon herself to discuss the marriage prospects of her son! Then how autocratic had
she been as she went him away, bidding him, with full command, to throw himself into the golden
embraces of Miss Dunstable! But now, how humble, as she came suppliantly to his room, craving
that she might have leave to whisper into his ears a mother's anxious fears! Frank had laughed
at her stern behests, though he had half obeyed them; but he was touched to the heart by her
humility.

He drew his chair nearer to her, and took her by the hand. But she, disengaging hers, parted
the hair from off his forehead, and kissed his brow. "Oh, Frank," she said, "I have been so
proud of you, am still so proud of you. It will send me to my grave if I see you sink below
your proper position. Not that it will be your fault. I am sure it will not be your fault.
Only circumstanced as you are, you should be doubly, trebly, careful. If your father had not--"

"Do not speak against my father."

