"Nay, were there any so little favored as that, no one would ever be misled at all!" replied
Tô-no-Chiûjiô, and he continued, "In my opinion, the most and the least favored are in the
same proportion. I mean, they are both not many. Their birth, also, divides them into three
classes. Those, however, who are especially well born, are often too jealously guarded, and
are, for the most part, kept secluded from the outside gaze, which frequently tends to make
their deportment shy and timid. It is those of the middle class, who are much more frequently
seen by us, who afford us most chance of studying their character. As for the lower class,
it would be almost useless to trouble ourselves with them."

Thus Tô-no-Chiûjiô appeared to be thoroughly at home in his description of the merits of the
fair sex, which made Genji amused, and he said: "But how do you define the classes you have
referred to, and classify them into three? Those who are of high birth sink sometimes in the
social scale until the distinction of their rank is forgotten in the abjectness of their present
position. Others, again, of low origin, rise to a high position, and, with self-important faces
and in ostentatious residences, regard themselves as inferior to none. Into what class will
you allot these?"

Just at this moment the Sama-no-Kami[26] and Tô Shikib-no-Jiô[27] joined the party. They came
to pay their respects to Genji, and both of them were gay and light-hearted talkers. So Tô-no-Chiûjiô
now made over the discussion to them, and it was carried to rather questionable lengths.

"However exalted a lady's position may be," said Sama-no-Kami, "if her origin is an unenviable
one, the estimation of the public for her would be widely different from that which it shows
to those who are naturally entitled to it. If, again, adverse fortune assails one whose birth
is high, so that she becomes friendless and helpless, degradation here will meet our eyes,
though her heart may still remain as noble as ever. Examples of both of these are very common.
After much reflection, I can only come to the conclusion that both of them should be included
in the middle class. In this class, too, must be included many daughters of the Duriô,[28]
who occupy themselves with local administration. These ladies are often very attractive, and
are not seldom introduced at Court and enjoy high favor."

"And successes depend pretty much upon the state of one's fortune, I fancy," interrupted Genji,
with a placid smile.

"That is a remark very unlikely to fall from the lips of a champion of romance," chimed in
Tô-no-Chiûjiô.

"There may be some," resumed Sama-no-Kami, "who are of high birth, and to whom public respect
is duly paid, yet whose domestic education has been much neglected. Of a lady such as this
we may simply remark, 'Why, and how, is it that she is so brought up?' and she would only cause
discredit to her class. There are, of course, some who combine in themselves every perfection
befitting their position. These best of the best are, however, not within every one's reach.
But, listen! Within an old dilapidated gateway, almost unknown to the world, and overgrown
with wild vegetation, perchance we might find, shut up, a maiden charming beyond imagination.
Her father might be an aged man, corpulent in person, and stern in mien, and her brothers of
repulsive countenance; but there, in an uninviting room, she lives, full of delicacy and sentiment,
and fairly skilled in the arts of poetry or music, which she may have acquired by her own exertions
alone, unaided. If there were such a case, surely she deserves our attention, save that of
those of us who themselves are highly exalted in position."

So saying, Sama-no-Kami winked slyly at Shikib-no-Jiô. The latter was silent: perhaps he fancied
that Sama-no-Kami was speaking in the above strain, with a hidden reference to his (Shikib's)
sisters, who, he imagined, answered the description.

Meantime, Genji may have thought, "If it is so difficult to choose one even from the best class,
how can--Ah!" and he began to close his eyes and doze. His dress was of soft white silk, partly
covered by the naoshi,[29] worn carelessly, with its cord left loose and untied. His appearance
and bearing formed quite a picture.

Meanwhile, the conversation went on about different persons and characters, and Sama-no-Kami
proceeded: "It is unquestionable that though at first glance many women appear to be without
defects, yet when we come to the actual selection of any one of them, we should seriously hesitate
in our choice.

"Let me illustrate my meaning by reference to the numerous public men who may be aspiring to
fulfil the duties of several important posts. You will at once recognize the great difficulty
there would be in fixing upon the individual statesman under whose guardianship the empire
could best repose. And supposing that, if at last, by good fortune, the most able man were
designated, even then we must bear in mind that it is not in the power of one or two individuals,
however gifted they may be, to carry on the whole administration of the kingdom alone. Public
business can only be tranquilly conducted when the superior receives the assistance of subordinates,
and when the subordinate yields a becoming respect and loyalty to his superior, and affairs
are thus conducted in a spirit of mutual conciliation. So, too, it is in the narrow range of
the domestic circle. To make a good mistress of that circle, one must possess, if our ideal
is to be fully realized, many important qualifications. Were we to be constantly indulging
in the severity of criticism, always objecting to this or that, a perfect character would be
almost unattainable. Men should therefore bear with patience any trifling dissatisfaction which
they may feel, and strive constantly to keep alive, to augment, and to cherish, the warmth
of their early love. Only such a man as this can be called faithful, and the partner of such
a man alone can enjoy the real happiness of affection. How unsatisfactory to us, however, seems
the actual world if we look round upon it. Still more difficult must it be to satisfy such
as you who seek your companions but from among the best!

"How varied are the characters and the dispositions of women! Some who are youthful and favored
by Nature strive almost selfishly to keep themselves with the utmost reserve. If they write,
they write harmlessly and innocently; yet, at the same time, they are choice in their expressions,
which have delicate touches of bewitching sentiment. This might possibly make us entertain
a suddenly conceived fancy for them; yet they would give us but slight encouragement. They
may allow us just to hear their voices, but when we approach them they will speak with subdued
breath, and almost inaudibly. Beware, however, lest among these you chance to encounter some
astute artiste, who, under a surface that is smooth, conceals a current that is deep. This
sort of lady, it is true, generally appears quite modest; but often proves, when we come closer,
to be of a very different temperament from what we anticipated. Here is one drawback to be
guarded against.

"Among characters differing from the above, some are too full of sentimental sweetness--whenever
occasion offers them romance they become spoilt. Such would be decidedly better if they had
less sentiment, and more sense.

"Others, again, are singularly earnest--too earnest, indeed--in the performance of their domestic
duty; and such, with their hair pushed back,[30] devote themselves like household drudges to
household affairs. Man, whose duties generally call him from home all the day, naturally hears
and sees the social movements both of public and private life, and notices different things,
both good and bad. Of such things he would not like to talk freely with strangers, but only
with some one closely allied to him. Indeed, a man may have many things in his mind which cause
him to smile or to grieve. Occasionally something of a political nature may irritate him beyond
endurance. These matters he would like to talk over with his fair companion, that she might
soothe him, and sympathize with him. But a woman as above described is often unable to understand
him, or does not endeavor to do so; and this only makes him more miserable. At another time
he may brood over his hopes and aspirations; but he has no hope of solace. She is not only
incapable of sharing these with him, but might carelessly remark, 'What ails you?' How severely
would this try the temper of a man!

"If, then, we clearly see all these, the only suggestion I can make is that the best thing
to do is to choose one who is gentle and modest, and strive to guide and educate her according
to the best ideal we may think of. This is the best plan; and why should we not do so? Our
efforts would not be surely all in vain. But no! A girl whom we thus educate, and who proves
to be competent to bear us company, often disappoints us when she is left alone. She may then
show her incapability, and her occasional actions may be done in such an unbecoming manner
that both good and bad are equally displeasing. Are not all these against us men?--Remember,
however, that there are some who may not be very agreeable at ordinary times, yet who flash
occasionally upon us with a potent and almost irresistible charm."

Thus Sama-no-Kami, though eloquent, not having come to one point or another, remained thoughtful
for some minutes, and again resumed:--

"After all, as I have once observed, I can only make this suggestion: That we should not too
much consider either birth or beauty, but select one who is gentle and tranquil, and consider
her to be best suited for our last haven of rest. If, in addition, she is of fair position,
and is blessed with sweetness of temper, we should be delighted with her, and not trouble ourselves
to search or notice any trifling deficiency. And the more so as, if her conscience is clear
and pure, calmness and serenity of features can naturally be looked for.

"There are women who are too diffident, and too reserved, and carry their generosity to such
an extent as to pretend not to be aware even of such annoyances as afford them just grounds
of complaint. A time arrives when their sorrows and anxieties become greater than they can
bear. Even then, however, they cannot resort to plain speaking, and complain. But, instead
thereof, they will fly away to some remote retreat among the mountain hamlets, or to some secluded
spot by the seaside, leaving behind them some painful letter or despairing verses, and making
themselves mere sad memories of the past. Often when a boy I heard such stories read by ladies,
and the sad pathos of them even caused my tears to flow; but now I can only declare such deeds
to be acts of mere folly. For what does it all amount to? Simply to this: That the woman, in
spite of the pain which it causes her, and discarding a heart which may be still lingering
towards her, takes to flight, regardless of the feelings of others--of the anguish, and of
the anxiety, which those who are dearest to her suffer with her. Nay, this act of folly may
even be committed simply to test the sincerity of her lover's affection for her. What pitiable
subtlety!

"Worse than this, the woman thus led astray, perhaps by ill advice, may even be beguiled into
more serious errors. In the depth of her despairing melancholy she will become a nun. Her conscience,
when she takes the fatal vow, may be pure and unsullied, and nothing may seem able to call
her back again to the world which she forsook. But, as time rolls on, some household servant
or aged nurse brings her tidings of the lover who has been unable to cast her out of his heart,
and whose tears drop silently when he hears aught about her. Then, when she hears of his affections
still living, and his heart still yearning, and thinks of the uselessness of the sacrifice
she has made voluntarily, she touches the hair[31] on her forehead, and she becomes regretful.
She may, indeed, do her best to persevere in her resolve, but if one single tear bedews her
cheek, she is no longer strong in the sanctity of her vow. Weakness of this kind would be in
the eyes of Buddha more sinful than those offences which are committed by those who never leave
the lay circle at all, and she would eventually wander about in the 'wrong passage.'[32]

"But there are also women, who are too self-confident and obtrusive. These, if they discover
some slight inconsistency in men, fiercely betray their indignation and behave with arrogance.
A man may show a little inconsistency occasionally, but yet his affection may remain; then
matters will in time become right again, and they will pass their lives happily together. If,
therefore, the woman cannot show a tolerable amount of patience, this will but add to her unhappiness.
She should, above all things, strive not to give way to excitement; and when she experiences
any unpleasantness, she should speak of it frankly but with moderation. And if there should
be anything worse than unpleasantness she should even then complain of it in such a way as
not to irritate the men. If she guides her conduct on principles such as these, even her very
words, her very demeanor, may in all probability increase his sympathy and consideration for
her. One's self-denial and the restraint which one imposes upon one's self, often depend on
the way in which another behaves to us. The woman who is too indifferent and too forgiving
is also inconsiderate. Remember 'the unmoored boat floats about.' Is it not so?"

Tô-no-Chiûjiô quickly nodded assent, as he said, "Quite true! A woman who has no strength of
emotion, no passion of sorrow or of joy, can never be holders of us. Nay even jealousy, if
not carried to the extent of undue suspicion, is not undesirable. If we ourselves are not in
fault, and leave the matter alone, such jealousy may easily be kept within due bounds. But
stop"--added he suddenly--"Some women have to bear, and do bear, every grief that they may
encounter with unmurmuring and suffering patience."

So said Tô-no-Chiûjiô, who implied by this allusion that his sister was a woman so circumstanced.
But Genji was still dozing, and no remark came from his lips.

Sama-no-Kami had been recently made a doctor of literature, and (like a bird) was inflating
his feathers, so Tô-no-Chiûjiô, willing to draw him out as much as possible, gave him every
encouragement to proceed with his discourse.

Again, therefore, he took up the conversation, and said, "Call to your mind affairs in general,
and judge of them. Is it not always true that reality and sincerity are to be preferred to
merely artificial excellence? Artisans, for instance, make different sorts of articles, as
their talents serve them. Some of them are keen and expert, and cleverly manufacture objects
of temporary fashion, which have no fixed or traditional style, and which are only intended
to strike the momentary fancy. These, however, are not the true artisans. The real excellence
of the true artisan is tested by those who make, without defects or sensational peculiarities,
articles to decorate, we will say, some particular building, in conformity with correct taste
and high æsthetic principles. Look for another instance at the eminence which has been attained
by several of the artists of the Imperial College of Painting. Take the case of draughtsmen
in black ink. Pictures, indeed, such as those of Mount Horai,[33] which has never been beheld
by mortal eye, or of some raging monstrous fish in a rough sea, or of a wild animal of some
far-off country, or of the imaginary face of the demon, are often drawn with such striking
vividness that people are startled at the sight of them. These pictures, however, are neither
real nor true. On the other hand, ordinary scenery, of familiar mountains, of calm streams
of water, and of dwellings just before our eyes, may be sketched with an irregularity so charming,
and with such excellent skill, as almost to rival Nature. In pictures such as these, the perspective
of gentle mountain slopes, and sequestered nooks surrounded by leafy trees, are drawn with
such admirable fidelity to Nature that they carry the spectator in imagination to something
beyond them. These are the pictures in which is mostly evinced the spirit and effectiveness
of the superior hand of a master; and in these an inferior artist would only show dulness and
inefficiency.

"Similar observations are applicable to handwriting.[34] Some people boldly dash away with
great freedom and endless flourishes, and appear at the first glance to be elegant and skilful.
But that which is written with scrupulous neatness, in accordance with the true rules of penmanship,
constitutes a very different handwriting from the above. If perchance the upstrokes and downstrokes
do not, at first sight, appear to be fully formed, yet when we take it up and critically compare
it with writing in which dashes and flourishes predominate, we shall at once see how much more
of real and sterling merit it possesses.

"Such then is the nature of the case in painting, in penmanship, and in the arts generally.
And how much more then are those women undeserving of our admiration, who though they are rich
in outward and in fashionable display, attempting to dazzle our eyes, are yet lacking in the
solid foundations of reality, fidelity, and truth! Do not, my friends, consider me going too
far, but let me proceed to illustrate these observations by my own experience."

So saying, Sama-no-Kami advanced his seat, and Genji awoke. Tô-no-Chiûjiô was quite interested
in the conversation, and was keeping his eye upon the speaker, leaning his cheek upon his hand.
This long discourse of Sama-no-Kami reminds us of the preacher's sermon, and amuses us. And
it seems that, on occasions like these, one may easily be carried away by circumstances, until
he is willing to communicate even his own private affairs.

"It was at a time," continued Sama-no-Kami, "when I was in a still more humble position, that
there was a girl to whom I had taken a fancy. She was like one of those whom I described in
the process of my discourse; not a regular beauty. Although for this reason my youthful vanity
did not allow me to pledge myself to her forever, I still considered her a pleasant companion.
Nevertheless, from occasional fits of restlessness, I roamed often here and there. This she
always resented fiercely, and with so much indignation that I sighed for a sweeter temper and
more moderation. Indeed, there were times when her suspicion and spitefulness were more than
I could endure. But my irritation was generally calmed down, and I even felt sorry myself,
when I reflected how strong and devoted her affection for me was, in spite of the mean state
of my circumstances. As to her general character, her only endeavor seemed to be to do everything
for my sake, even what was beyond her powers, while she struggled to perfect herself in anything
in which she might be deficient, and took the most faithful care of all my interests, striving
constantly and earnestly to please me. She appeared at first even too zealous, but in time
became more moderate. She seemed as if she felt uneasy lest her plain face should cause me
displeasure, and she even denied herself the sight of other people, in order to avoid unbecoming
comment.

"As time went by, the more I became accustomed to observe how really simple-hearted she was,
the more I sympathized with her. The one thing that I could not bear, however, was that jealousy
of hers. Sincere and devoted as she is, thought I, is there no means of ridding her of this
jealous weakness? Could I but do that, it would not matter even if I were to alarm her a little.
And I also thought that since she was devoted to me, if I showed any symptoms of getting tired
of her, she would, in all probability, be warned by it. Therefore, I purposely behaved to her
with great coolness and heartlessness. This she resented as usual. I then said to her, that
though our affection had been of old date, I should not see her again; 'if you wish to sever
from me you may suspect me as much as you like. If you prefer to enjoy long happiness with
me in future, be modest and patient in trifling matters. If you can only be so, how can I do
otherwise than love you? My position also may in time be improved, and then we may enjoy greater
happiness!'

"In saying this, I thought I had managed matters very ingeniously. Without meaning it, however,
I had in fact spoken a little too harshly. She replied, with a bitter smile, that 'to put up
with a life of undistinguished condition, even though with faint hopes of future promotion,
was not a thing about which we ought to trouble ourselves, but that it was indeed a hard task
to pass long wearisome days in waiting until a man's mind should be restored to a sense of
propriety. And that for this reason we had, perhaps, better separate at once.'

"This she said with such sarcastic bitterness that I was irritated and stung to the quick,
and overwhelmed her with a fresh torrent of reproaches. At this juncture she gave way to an
uncontrollable fit of passion, and snatching up my hand, she thrust my little finger into her
mouth and bit off the end of it. Then, notwithstanding my pain, I became quite cool and collected,
and calmly said, 'insulted and maimed as I have now been, it is most fitting that I should
absent myself for the future from polite society. Office and title would ill become me now.
Your spite has now left me without spirit to face the world in which I should be ridiculed,
and has left me no alternative but to withdraw my maimed person from the public gaze!' After
I had alarmed her by speaking in this exalted strain, I added, 'to-day we meet for the last
time,' and bending these fingers (pointing to them as she spoke) I made the farewell remark:--

    When on my fingers, I must say
      I count the hours I spent with thee,
    Is this, and this alone, I pray
      The only pang you've caused to me?

You are now quits with me,' At the instant I said so, she burst into tears and without premeditation,
poured forth the following:--

    'From me, who long bore grievous harms,
      From that cold hand and wandering heart,
    You now withdraw your sheltering arms,
      And coolly tell me, we must part.'

"To speak the truth, I had no real intention of separating from her altogether. For some time,
however, I sent her no communication, and was passing rather an unsettled life. Well! I was
once returning from the palace late one evening in November, after an experimental practice
of music for a special festival in the Temple of Kamo. Sleet was falling heavily. The wind
blew cold, and my road was dark and muddy. There was no house near where I could make myself
at home. To return and spend a lonely night in the palace was not to be thought of. At this
moment a reflection flashed across my mind. 'How cold must she feel whom I have treated so
coldly,' thought I, and suddenly became very anxious to know what she felt and what she was
about. This made me turn my steps towards her dwelling, and brushing away the snow that had
gathered on my shoulders I trudged on: at one moment shyly biting my nails, at another thinking
that on such a night at least all her enmity towards me might be all melted away. I approached
the house. The curtains were not drawn, and I saw the dim light of a lamp reflected on the
windows. It was even perceivable that a soft quilt was being warmed and thrown over the large
couch. The scene was such as to give you the notion that she was really anticipating that I
might come at least on such an evening. This gave me encouragement, but alas! she whom I hoped
to see was not at home. I was told she had gone to her parents that very evening. Previous
to that time, she had sent me no sad verses, no conciliatory letter, and this had already given
birth to unpleasant feelings on my part. And at this moment, when I was told that she had gone
away, all these things seemed to have been done almost purposely, and I involuntarily began
to suspect that her very jealousy had only been assumed by her on purpose to cause me to become
tired of her.

"As I reflected what our future might be after such an estrangement as this, I was truly depressed.
I did not, however, give up all hope, thinking that she would not be so determined as to abandon
me forever. I had even carefully selected some stuff for a dress for her. Some time, however,
passed away without anything particularly occurring. She neither accepted nor refused the offers
of reconciliation which I made to her. She did not, it is true, hide herself away like any
of those of whom I have spoken before. But, nevertheless, she did not evince the slightest
symptom of regret for her previous conduct.

"At last, after a considerable interval, she intimated to me that her final resolve was not
to forgive me any more if I intended in future to behave as I had done before; but that, on
the other hand, she should be glad to see me again if I would thoroughly change my habits,
and treat her with the kindness which was her due. From this I became more convinced that she
still entertained longings for me. Hence, with the hope of warning her a little more, I made
no expressions of any intention to make a change in my habits, and I tried to find out which
of us had the most patience.

"While matters were in this state, she, to my great surprise, suddenly died, perhaps broken-hearted.

"I must now frankly confess that she certainly was a woman in whom a man might place his confidence.
Often, too, I had talked with her on music and on poetry, as well as on the more important
business of life, and I found her to be by no means wanting in intellect and capability. She
had too the clever hands of Tatyta-himè[35] and Tanabata.[36]

"When I recall these pleasant memories my heart still clings to her endearingly."

"Clever in weaving, she may have been like Tanabata, that is but a small matter," interposed
Tô-no-Chiûjiô, "we should have preferred to have seen your love as enduring as Tanabata's.[37]
Nothing is so beautiful as the brilliant dyes spread over the face of Nature, yet the red tints
of autumn are often not dyed to a color so deep as we desire, because of the early drying of
the dew, so we say, 'such is the uncertain fate of this world,'" and so saying, he made a sign
to Sama-no-Kami to go on with his story. He went on accordingly.

"About that time I knew another lady. She was on the whole a superior kind of person. A fair
poetess, a good musician, and a fluent speaker, with good enunciation, and graceful in her
movements. All these admirable qualities I noticed myself, and heard them spoken of by others.
As my acquaintance with her commenced at the time when I was not on the best of terms with
my former companion, I was glad to enjoy her society. The more I associated with her the more
fascinating she became.

"Meanwhile my first friend died, at which I felt truly sorry, still I could not help it, and
I therefore paid frequent visits to this one. In the course of my attentions to her, however,
I discovered many unpleasant traits. She was not very modest, and did not appear to be one
whom a man could trust. On this account, I became somewhat disappointed, and visited her less
often. While matters were on this footing I accidentally found out that she had another lover
to whom she gave a share of her heart.

"It happened that one inviting moonlight evening in October, I was driving out from home on
my way to a certain Dainagon. On the road I met with a young noble who was going in the same
direction. We therefore drove together, and as we were journeying on, he told me that 'some
one might be waiting for him, and he was anxious to see her'; well! by and by we arrived at
the house of my lady-love. The bright reflection of the waters of an ornamental lake was seen
through crevices in the walls; and the pale moon, as she shed her full radiance over the shimmering
waves, seemed to be charmed with the beauty of the scene. It would have been heartless to pass
by with indifference, and we both descended from the carriage, without knowing each other's
intention.

"This youth seems to have been 'the other one'; he was rather shy. He sat down on a mat of
reeds that was spread beside a corridor near the gateway; and, gazing up at the sky, meditated
for some moments in silence. The chrysanthemums in the gardens were in full bloom, whose sweet
perfume soothed us with its gentle influence; and round about us the scarlet leaves of the
maple were falling, as ever and anon they were shaken by the breeze. The scene was altogether
romantic.

"Presently, he took a flute out of his bosom and played. He then whispered, 'Its shade is refreshing.'

"In a few minutes the fair one struck up responsively on a sweet-toned wagon (a species of koto).

"The melody was soft and exquisite, in charming strains of modern music, and admirably adapted
to the lovely evening. No wonder that he was fascinated; he advanced towards the casement from
which the sounds proceeded, and glancing at the leaves scattered on the ground, whispered in
invidious tones, 'Sure no strange footsteps would ever dare to press these leaves.' He then
culled a chrysanthemum, humming, as he did so:--

    'Even this spot, so fair to view
      With moon, and Koto's gentle strain,
    Could make no other lover true,
      As me, thy fond, thy only swain.'

"'Wretched!' he exclaimed, alluding to his poetry; and then added, 'One tune more! Stay not
your hand when one is near, who so ardently longs to hear you.' Thus he began to flatter the
lady, who, having heard his whispers, replied thus, in a tender, hesitating voice:--

    'Sorry I am my voice too low
      To match thy flute's far sweeter sound;
    Which mingles with the winds that blow
      The Autumn leaves upon the ground.'

"Ah! she little thought I was a silent and vexed spectator of all this flirtation. She then
took up a soh (another kind of koto with thirteen strings) and tuned it to a Banjiki key (a
winter tune), and played on it still more excellently. Though an admirer of music, I cannot
say that these bewitching melodies gave me any pleasure under the peculiar circumstances I
stood in.

"Now, romantic interludes, such as this, might be pleasant enough in the case of maidens who
are kept strictly in Court service, and whom we have very little opportunity of meeting with,
but even there we should hesitate to make such a one our life companion. How much less could
one ever entertain such an idea in a case like my own? Making, therefore, that evening's experience
a ground of dissatisfaction I never saw her more.

