Of another sort was the bravery of Dewey at Manila, more notable in its results but in no other
way surpassing that of Hobson and his men. Dewey went forward in spite of unknown dangers of
torpedoes, to engage an enemy in the place it had selected as most favorable for Spanish arms,
an enemy with more ships, more men, more guns than had the American. A day later the nation
was at the feet of Dewey and the United States had taken a position among the powers of the
world never before admitted by them. In larger degree than ever before, from that moment the
United States became a factor in the international history of the world. At this writing one
cannot tell what will be the end of the relations of the United States to the Philippines and
the Orient, but the solution cannot fail to be of profit to this nation. This was a holy war
for the liberty of Cuba, but like many another good deed it is bringing its additional rewards.
Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippines and the Caroline islands are to be liberated, four colonies
of Spain instead of one, and the direct and indirect profit, looked at from a purely commercial
basis, will be far more than enough to compensate the United States for the cost of the war.
The annexation of the Hawaiian islands as a war measure must be credited to the same cause,
for the success of that effort under any other circumstances was problematical.

Yet another sort of bravery was that in the harbor of Cardenas when the little torpedo boat
Winslow lay a helpless hulk under the rain of fire from the shore batteries, without rudder
or engine to serve, and the Hudson, a mere tugboat with a few little guns on deck, stood by
for forty minutes to pass a hawser and tow the disabled vessel out of range. Both were riddled,
the Winslow had half her total complement of men killed and wounded by a single shell, but
there was no faltering, and they all worked away as coolly as if nothing were happening.

If one started to catalogue the instances of personal bravery that the war brought out in its
first few months, the list would be a cumbersome one. It is enough here to say that there have
been a hundred times when personal courage was needed to be shown, and never a moment's hesitancy
on the part of any man to whom the call came. Furthermore, in every case in which a particularly
hazardous undertaking was contemplated, and volunteers were called for, the number offering
has been in every instance far more than was needed. This was eminently notable on the occasion
of Hobson's sinking of the Merrimac, when more than a thousand in the fleet volunteered for
a service requiring but six, and from which it seemed impossible that any could come out alive.

The public must know all about the war, and the only avenue of information is the press. Never
before has any war been covered as to its news features with the accuracy and energy which
have characterized this. American journalism has outstripped the world. The expense of a news
service for this war is something enormous, with little return compensation. Yet the work is
done, metropolitan papers have from ten to twenty correspondents in the field, and the public
has the benefit. Dispatch boats follow the fleets and are present at every battle. They must
be near enough to see, which means that they are in as much danger at times as are the ships
of the fighting squadron, far more if one remembers that the former are in no way protected.
Some of them are heavy sea-going tugs and others are yachts. The expense of charter, insurance
and running cost amounts to from $200 to $400 a day each, and yet some metropolitan newspapers
have fleets of these boats to the number of six.

All the foregoing facts are related in detail in the volume which these paragraphs introduce.
The only object in reiterating them here is that they are entitled to emphasis for their prominence,
and it is desired to call special attention to them and their accompanying matter when the
book itself shall be read. The number of those who believe we are engaged in a righteous war
is overwhelming. The records of the brave deeds of our men afloat and ashore will inspire Americans
to be better citizens as long as time shall last. The country has proven its faith in the cause
by giving to the needs of war hundreds of thousands of young men to fight for the liberty of
others. From every corner of the land regiments of volunteer soldiers have sprung in an instant
at the call of the President, while as many more are waiting for another call to include those
for whom there was not room the first time. The country which can show such an inspiring movement
has little to fear in the race of progress among the nations of the world.

OUR WAR WITH SPAIN.

CHAPTER I.

A WAR FOR LIBERTY AND HUMANITY.

Again at War with a Foreign Power--Spain's Significant Flag-- Three Years Without an American
Flag in Cuban Waters--Visit of the Maine to Havana Harbor--The Maine Blown Up by Submerged
Mine-- Action of President and Congress--Spain Defies America--Martial Spirit Spreading--First
Guns Are Fired--Cuban Ports Blockaded-- Many Spanish Ships Captured--Excitement in Havana--Spain
and the United States Both Declare War--Internal Dissension Threatens Spain--President McKinley
Calls a Volunteer Army.

Civilization against barbarism, freedom against oppression, education against ignorance, progress
against retrogression, the West against the East, the United States against Spain. In this
cause the flag of freedom was again unfurled in the face of a foreign foe, and our nation entered
war against the people of another land, carrying the star spangled banner through successive
victories in the name of liberty and humanity.

It is a proud banner, which stands the whole world over for freedom and right, with few stains
of defeat or injustice upon its folds. The great heart of the nation swelled with pride at
the righteousness of the cause, with an assurance that eternal history would praise America
for the unselfish work. On land and sea the boys in blue gave new fame to the flag, and their
proud record in the past was more than justified by the honors that they won.

Two wars with Great Britain and one with Mexico were the more notable predecessors of this
conflict with Spain. If to these should be added the hostilities between the United States
and the Barbary pirates of Algiers, Morocco and Tripoli, and the scattered brushes with two
or three Oriental and South American countries, the list might be extended. But those affairs
are not remembered as wars in the true sense of the word.

Except for protection against Indian outbreaks, the United States had been at peace for thirty
years, when the war cloud began to loom in the horizon. It was with a full realization of the
blessings of peace that the American people yielded to the demands, of humanity and righteous
justice, to take up arms again in the cause of liberty. There was no haste, no lack of caution,
no excited plunge into hostilities without proper grounds. The nation made sure that it was
right. An intolerable condition of affairs resulting from years of agony in a neighbor island,
with half a dozen immediate reasons, any one sufficient, was the absolute justification for
this holy war.

Spain is the Turk of the West. Spain is an obsolete nation. Living in the past, and lacking
cause for pride to-day, she gloats over her glorious explorations and her intellectual prowess
of the middle ages when much of Europe was in darkness. Then Spain's flag led pioneers throughout
the world. But her pride was based on achievements, many of which, to the people of any other
nation, would have been the disgrace of its history. No indictment of Spain can ever be more
severe, more scathing, if its true significance be considered, than the famous phrase which
one of her proudest poets created to characterize her flag of red and yellow.

"Sangre y oro," he said, "blood and gold--a stream of gold between two rivers of blood."

It is almost a sufficient characterization to indicate the whole national spirit of Spain,
to recall that this phrase is the proud expression used by the Spanish people to glorify their
own flag. That sentiment is in no stronger contrast to the American phrase, "the star-spangled
banner," than are the people of Spain to the people of the United States.

"REMEMBER THE MAINE."

From the day of the outbreak of the Cuban revolution, early in 1895, until nearly the end of
January, 1898, there had been no flag of the United States seen in any harbor of Cuba except
upon merchant vessels. Always before, it had been the policy of our government to have ships
of war make friendly calls in the harbors of all countries of the world at frequent intervals,
and Cuban waters had shared these courtesies.

So careful were the officers of the Cleveland administration to avoid the appearance of offense
or threat against the authority of Spain, with which we were living in amity, that immediately
upon the outbreak of hostilities in Cuba this practice was suspended, so far as it applied
to that island. Our ships cruised through the oceans of the world and called at all ports where
they were not needed, but the waters of Havana harbor for three years were never disturbed
by an American keel.

Out of deference to the expressed wishes of the local Spanish authorities in Havana, Dr. Burgess,
the splendid surgeon of the United States Marine Hospital service in Havana, who for thirty
years has guarded our southern ports from the epidemics of yellow fever and smallpox, which
would invade us annually as a result of Spanish misgovernment in Cuba, except for his watchfulness,
ceased flying the American flag on his steam launch, by means of which he carried out his official
duties in those foul waters. The American flag was a disturbing influence upon the minds of
the Cubans who might see it flashing in the clear sunlight of the tropic sky, suggested the
Captain General.

It must have been the language of diplomacy that was in mind, when the satirist explained that
"language was intended as a medium for concealing thought." President McKinley, in his message
to Congress transmitting the report of the naval board concerning the catastrophe to the Maine,
explained that for some time prior to the visit of the battle-ship to Havana harbor, it had
been considered a proper change in the policy, in order to accustom the people to the presence
of our flag as a symbol of good will. The decision to send the vessel to that harbor was reached,
it was explained, after conference with the Spanish minister, and, through our diplomats, with
the Spanish authorities at Madrid and Havana. It was declared that this intention was received
by the Spanish government with high appreciation of the courtesy intended, which it was offered
to return by sending Spanish ships to the principal ports of the United States.

We are bound to accept this expression from the officials on both sides as frankly indicative
of their feelings. But it is just as necessary to recognize that to the mass of the people
in both countries, the significance of the Maine's courtesy call was very different. Americans
believed that it indicated a changed policy on the part of the national government at Washington
which would be more strenuous and more prompt in resenting outrages against the life and property
of American citizens in Cuba. The people of the Cuban republic believed that the change meant
an expression of sympathy and friendship for their cause, with probable interference in their
behalf, and took courage from that sign. Finally, the people of Spain resented the appearance
of the Maine in the harbor of Havana as an affront, and a direct threat against them and in
favor of the insurgents. If the policy of making frequent calls in warships had never been
interrupted, they would not have had this sentiment in the matter, but the resumption of the
practice after three years' cessation, carried a threat with it in their minds.

TREACHEROUS DESTRUCTION OF THE MAINE.

The Maine entered the harbor of Havana at sunrise on the 25th of January and was anchored at
a place indicated by the harbor- master. Her arrival was marked with no special incident, except
the exchange of customary salutes and ceremonial visits. Three weeks from that night, at forty
minutes past nine o'clock in the evening of the 15th of February, the Maine was destroyed by
an explosion, by which the entire forward part of the ship was wrecked. In this frightful catastrophe
264 of her crew and two officers perished, those who were not killed outright by the explosion
being penned between decks by the tangle of wreckage and drowned by the immediate sinking of
her hull.

In spite of the fact that the American public was urged to suspend judgment as to the causes
of this disaster, and that the Spanish authorities in Havana and in Madrid expressed grief
and sympathy, it, was impossible to subdue a general belief that in some way Spanish treachery
was responsible for the calamity. With the history of Spanish cruelty in Cuba before them,
and the memory of Spanish barbarities through all their existence as a nation, the people could
mot disabuse their minds of this suspicion.

One month later this popular judgment was verified by the finding of the naval court of inquiry
which had made an exhaustive examination of the wreck, and had taken testimony from every available
source. With this confirmation and the aroused sentiment of the country concerning conditions
in Cuba, the logic of events was irresistibly drawing the country toward war with Spain, and
all efforts of diplomacy and expressions of polite regard exchanged between the governments
of the two nations were unable to avert it.

For a few weeks, history was made rapidly. Conservative and eminent American senators visited
Cuba in order to obtain personal information of conditions there, and upon their return, gave
to Congress and to the country, in eloquent speeches, the story of the sufferings they had
found in that unhappy island. The loss of the Maine had focused American attention upon the
Cuban situation as it had never been before, and though there were no more reasons for sympathetic
interference than there had been for many months, people began to realize as they had not before,
the horrors that were being enacted at their thresholds.

The sailors who died with the Maine, even though they were not able to fight their country's
foes, have not died in vain, for it is their death that will be remembered as the culminating
influence for American intervention and the salvation of scores of thousands of lives of starving
Cuban women and children. Vessels were loaded with supplies of provisions and clothing for
the suffering and were sent to the harbors of Cuba, where distribution was made by Miss Clara
Barton and her trusted associates in the American National Red Cross. Some of these vessels
were merchant steamers, but others were American cruisers, and Cubans were not permitted to
forget that there was a flag which typified liberty, not far away. The strain upon the national
patience increased every day, and was nearing the breaking point.

PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS ACT.

After a period of restlessness in Congress which was shared by the whole country, the President
finally transmitted an important message. It included a resume of the progress of the Cuban
revolution from its beginning and considered in some detail the workings of that devastating
policy of General Weyler, known as reconcentration. The message related the progress of diplomatic
negotiations with Spain, and disclosed a surprising succession of events in which the Spanish
government had submitted to various requests and recommendations of the American government.
Having exhausted the powers of the executive in these efforts, it was left to the legislative
authority of the American people to establish such policies as would be finally efficient.

Congress rose to the occasion. The facts were at command of both houses, their sympathies were
enlisted at the side of their reason and there was little time lost in acting. The House and
the Senate, after mutual concessions on minor details, passed as a law of the land for the
President's signature, an act directing him and empowering him to require Spain to withdraw
her troops and relinquish all authority over the island of Cuba. The President was authorized
to employ the army and navy of the United States for the purpose of carrying into effect this
instruction and the interference was directed to be made at once. Best of all, from the point
of view of the Cuban patriots, the act declared that the people of Cuba are and ought to be
free and independent. But a few days more of diplomacy, and war was to begin.

SPAIN DEFIES AMERICA.

It was hardly to be expected that the Spanish government and the Spanish people would yield
to the demands of the United States without a protest. So feeble is the hold of the present
dynasty upon the throne of Spain, that it was readily understood that any concession upon the
part of the Queen Regent would arouse Spanish indignation beyond the limits of endurance. The
Queen-mother had to think of her baby son's crown. If she were to yield to the superior power
of the United States without a struggle, Spanish revolutionists would overthrow the dynasty
before he could come to the throne. However well she might know that the logical outcome of
a war would be overwhelming defeat to Spanish arms, political necessities compelled her to
take the position dictated by Spanish pride.

The Spanish Cortes met in special session at Madrid, and on the 20th of April the Queen Regent
delivered her speech before that legislative body and declared that her parliament was summoned
in the hour of peril to defend her country's rights and her child's throne, whatever sacrifice
might be entailed. It was on that same day that President McKinley presented the ultimatum
of the United States to Spain, in language diplomatic in form, but carrying with it a definite
notice to yield Cuba's freedom and relinquish her pretense of authority in that island without
delay. A copy of the ultimatum was forwarded to the Spanish ambassador at Washington, Senor
Polo y Bernabe, who responded by asking for his passports and safe conduct out of the country.

Having reached the point where diplomacy no longer availed, the Spanish government for the
first time made an aggressive move against the United States. Instead of waiting for the transmission
of the ultimatum by American Minister Stewart L. Woodford, the ministry forestalled him and
dismissed him from Madrid without affording him an opportunity to present that important document.
It had been transmitted to Madrid by cable from the Spanish Minister in Washington, and the
government felt no need to wait for formal messages from the enemy's representative in Spain.
Minister Woodford left Madrid without delay, and finally reached the French frontier, after
being subjected to many insults and attacks upon his train during the journey from the Spanish
capital.

MARTIAL SPIRIT SPREADING.

A wave of national patriotic enthusiasm swept over the United States. North and South, East
and West, there was hardly a discordant note in the great chorus of fervent applause which
rose when it was understood that at last the forces of the nation were to be united in the
cause of liberty and humanity.

But sentiment could not fight battles, unless backed by material equipment. The nation was
preparing for war. From all parts of the United States the troops of the regular army were
hurried by special trains southeastward to camps at Chickamauga and Tampa. In every navy yard
work was hurried night and day upon all incomplete battleships and cruisers. Already the fleets
of the American navy had been concentrated at points of vantage so that little was left to
be done on that score. Congress lost no time in providing the sinews of war by generous appropriations
for the regular channels of supply, in addition to one passed by unanimous vote of both houses
granting $50,000,000 as a special fund to be at the disposal of the President. The war appropriation
bill and the naval appropriation bill carried with them emergency clauses. Preparations were
made for the reorganization of the regular army to more than double its normal size, and the
President was authorized to call for a volunteer army of 125,000 men. Looking to the future,
and the possibility of a long and expensive conflict, financial measures were prepared which
would raise war revenues through the regular channels of taxation and the issue of bonds. Americans
were ready to put their hands in their pockets and pay for the privilege of teaching a worthy
lesson to the world.

American sense of humor never fails, and even in this period of stress the people took time
to smile over the story of the Spanish Minister's journey from Washington to Canada. In Toronto,
Senor Polo sought to discredit the assaults that had been made on Minister Woodford's train
in Spain, and related that he himself had been the victim of assaults at two or three important
cities on his journey through New York, which threatened great danger to himself and the train
on which he was riding.

Upon inquiry it was revealed that the assaults which had aroused his fear were not quite as
hostile as he believed. At the division stations on the line, the railway employees, according
to custom, passed along the cars, tapping the tires of the wheels with steel hammers to test
them for a possible flaw or break in the wheel, and it was this that made the Spanish Minister
believe that he was the victim of an American outrage.

FIRST GUNS ARE FIRED.

The United States cruiser Nashville of the North Atlantic squadron, with headquarters at Key
West, had the honor of firing the first shot in our war with Spain.

Early on the morning of Friday, April 22, the American fleet sailed from Key West, and, steaming
southward across the straits of Florida, came in sight of Havana and the frowning fortifications
of Morro Castle before six o'clock the same afternoon.

The sailing of the fleet, as dawn was creeping over the Florida keys, was a beautiful sight
and a significant one, for from the time the first signals were hoisted until many days after,
there was hardly an hour of inactivity. It was at three o'clock in the morning that the signal
lights began to flash from the New York, Admiral Sampson's flagship. Answering signals appeared
on the warships all along the line, and in a few moments black smoke began to belch from the
funnels of all the ships and the crews woke from quietness to activity.

As soon as day began to break, the cruisers and gunboats inside the harbor hoisted anchors
and moved out to join the big battleships which were already lined outside the bar. At five
o'clock, when all the fleet were gathered around the battleships, Captain Sampson signaled
from the New York to go ahead. The formation of the line had been agreed upon some time before
and each vessel was in position for line of battle, the New York in the center and the Iowa
and Indiana on either beam. The ships presented a most beautiful appearance as they swept out
on the ocean without a vestige of anything not absolutely necessary on the decks. They were
stripped of all useless superstructure, awnings, gun-covers and everything that goes to adorn
a ship. Officers paced the bridge, marines were drawn up on deck and every man was at his post.
They appeared as they were, grim fighting machines, not naval vessels out on cruise nor a squadron
of evolution and maneuver, but warships out for business.

FIRST SPANISH SHIP CAPTURED.

The fleet had proceeded twelve miles from Sand Key Light, which lies seven miles southeast
of Key West, when the Nashville signaled the flagship that a vessel flying the Spanish colors
had been sighted. Admiral Sampson signaled from the New York for the Nashville to go and take
it. The Nashville bore down on the Spanish ship and fired a blank shot from the port guns aft.
This did not stop the Spaniard, and, to give a more definite hint, a solid shot was fired close
over its bows. The Spanish ship immediately hove to and waited to know its fate.

The vessel proved to be the Buena Ventura, with a crew of about thirty men, bound from Pascagonla
to Rotterdam with a cargo of lumber, cattle and miscellaneous freight. As soon as possible
a boat was lowered from the Nashville and an officer was sent aboard the Buena Ventura. When
the Spanish captain was informed that his ship could not proceed, he took his capture gracefully,
shrugged his shoulders, and said he supposed it was only the fortune of war. It was suggested
to him that the capture of a ship bearing that name, which, translated, means "good fortune,"
as the first prize of the American fleet in the war, seemed to be a striking coincidence. A
prize crew of marines under Ensign T. P. Magruder was placed aboard, and, with the Nashville
in the lead, both ships set out for Key West.

Inasmuch as the Buena Ventura was the first capture by the American navy in the war, it had
a more definite interest than a success of the same sort would have a few months later. The
first shot was fired by Gunner Michael Mallia of the Nashville, who therefore has the distinction
of firing the first shot in the war. The prize was a rich one, estimated to be worth, including
vessel and cargo, nearly $500,000, and the prize money resulting became a tempting amount.
Captain Washburne Maynard, commander of the Nashville, who gained the distinction of making
the first capture, is a native of Knoxville, Tenn. He is a son of former United States Senator
Horace Maynard, and at the time of the capture was about fifty years old. He entered the Annapolis
Naval Academy at the age of seventeen and graduated at the head of his class. He was for a
number of years stationed in Alaska, and at the time of gaining his present distinction had
been in command of the Nashville for four years.

BLOCKADE OF HAVANA BEGUN.

After the Nashville left the fleet to return to Key West with its prize, the remaining vessels
of the squadron steamed onward toward the Cuban coast. Coming within fifteen miles of Morro
Castle, the fleet scattered in a more open line of battle, some of the vessels turning to the
east and others to the west, and making the blockade of the port complete. No ship could enter
or leave the harbor, and every day brought new prizes to the vessels of the blockading squadron.

The blockade of the Cuban metropolis was well in progress by the time the formal notification
of it was issued. The President issued warning to the nations of the world that the Cuban ports
were sealed by the authority of the United States, in the following formal proclamation:

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: A PROCLAMATION.

By the President: WILLIAM M'KINLEY.

JOHN SHERMAN, Secretary of State.

MORE SPANISH PRIZES TAKEN.

The blockade was not a mere paper blockade, but an exceedingly effective one. Before two days
had passed, the prizes taken began to multiply in numbers and in value. The second capture
was the Spanish freighter Pedro, of Bilboa, which was taken by the New York in the afternoon
of the first day's cruising.

When the fleet approached the Cuban coast and spread out for patrol duty, the New York turned
eastward for her own watch, not knowing what might be found in the neighborhood. Far off against
the dim, vague background of Cuban hills, half seen, half guessed, could be traced a faint
film of gray smoke, the one visible evidence of a Spanish freighter striving vainly to race
out the day without being discovered by the great gray monsters that blackened the sky to the
west with a solid mass of black cloud from their roaring furnaces.

Vainly the Spaniard raced. Charging along at trial test speed, the New York soon lay across
the bows of the Spanish ship, and the crashing challenge blazed from the deck of the cruiser.
A huge puff of white smoke rolled out from the side of the flagship, and far off, just in front
of the Spaniard, a fountain of white foam leaped into the air. In a moment the course of the
strange Spaniard was changed, and she hove to.

Shortly after, the New York led her prize further out from shore and laid her to. Crew and
captain could be seen rushing about the deck of the ship like a nest of ants, hiding their
valuables and striving to avert some impending fate they could only guess at in their ignorance.
As she came around her name could be clearly read on her stern, Pedro of Bilboa.

As soon as she was laid alongside, the Pedro was boarded by Ensign Frank Marble of the New
York. Ensign Marble led a prize crew, consisting of a file of marines and seamen. With great
formality the ensign swung aboard and assumed command. A burly, bare-footed American tar shoved
the Spanish quartermaster away from the wheel and began to set the course of the Spaniard.
The Spanish crew gathered in a terrified huddle near the forecastle and awaited developments.

Hardly had the prize crew been put on board before another freighter was seen going down the
coast to the eastward. The New York, leaving the captured Spanish craft in charge of the prize
crew, drew across the bows of the stranger and sent a shot into the water directly in front
of her bows. She paid no attention to the challenge, but kept steadily on, and a few seconds
later another shot was sent hurtling across the water in front of her. After this hostile demonstration
she hauled up and soon followed the New York out to sea. It was discovered, however, that she
flew the German flag, and consequently was permitted to proceed.

The prize crew from the New York took the captured vessel into port at Key West under its own
steam. The ship was bound from Havana to Santiago with a valuable cargo of rice, iron and beer.
On the same day two other captures were made, one by the torpedo boat Ericsson, which seized
a fishing schooner under the very guns of Morro Castle and by the torpedo boat, Porter, which
took the Spanish schooner, Mathilde, after a lively chase and a number of shots. Both of these
prizes were taken to Key West to join their unfortunate friends.

EXCITEMENT IN HAVANA.

