The following codes are used for characters not available in the character set used for this book:

  +   dagger
  ++  double dagger

  THE BOOKS OF CHILAN BALAM,

  The Prophetic and Historic Records
  of the Mayas of Yucatan.

  By DANIEL G. BRINTON, M. D.

  VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE NUMISMATIC AND ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY OF
  PHILADELPHIA; MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
  SOCIETY; THE AMERICAN ANTIQUARIAN SOCIETY;
  DÉLÉGUÉ OF THE INSTITUTION
  ETHNOGRAPHIQUE,
  ETC., ETC.

  EDWARD STERN & CO.,
  PHILADELPHIA.

PREFATORY NOTE.

The substance of the present pamphlet was presented as an address to the Numismatic and Antiquarian
Society of Philadelphia, at its meeting in January, 1882, and was printed in the Penn Monthly,
March, 1882. As the subject is one quite new in the field of American archæology and linguistics,
it is believed that a republication in the present form will be welcomed by students of these
branches.

THE BOOKS OF CHILAN BALAM.[5-*]

Civilization in ancient America rose to its highest level among the Mayas of Yucatan. Not to
speak of the architectural monuments which still remain to attest this, we have the evidence
of the earliest missionaries to the fact that they alone, of all the natives of the New World,
possessed a literature written in "letters and characters," preserved in volumes neatly bound,
the paper manufactured from the bark of a tree and sized with a durable white varnish.[5-+]

A few of these books still remain, preserved to us by accident in the great European libraries;
but most of them were destroyed by the monks. Their contents were found to relate chiefly to
the pagan ritual, to traditions of the heathen times, to astrological superstitions, and the
like. Hence, they were considered deleterious, and were burned wherever discovered.

This annihilation of their sacred books affected the natives most keenly, as we are pointedly
informed by Bishop Landa, himself one of the most ruthless of Vandals in this respect.[5-++]
But already some of the more intelligent had learned the Spanish alphabet, and the missionaries
had added a sufficient number of signs to it to express with tolerable accuracy the phonetics
of the Maya tongue. Relying on their memories, and, no doubt, aided by some manuscripts secretly
preserved, many natives set to work to write out in this new alphabet the contents of their
ancient records. Much was added which had been brought in by the Europeans, and much omitted
which had become unintelligible or obsolete since the Conquest; while, of course, the different
writers, varying in skill and knowledge, produced works of very various merit.

Nevertheless, each of these books bore the same name. In whatever village it was written, or
by whatever hand, it always was, and to-day still is, called "The Book of Chilan Balam." To
distinguish them apart, the name of the village where a copy was found or written, is added.
Probably, in the last century, almost every village had one, which was treasured with superstitious
veneration. But the opposition of the padres to this kind of literature, the decay of ancient
sympathies, and especially the long war of races, which since 1847 has desolated so much of
the peninsula, have destroyed most of them. There remain, however, either portions or descriptions
of not less than sixteen of these curious records. They are known from the names of the villages
respectively as the Book of Chilan Balam of Nabula, of Chumayel, of Káua, of Mani, of Oxkutzcab,
of Ixil, of Tihosuco, of Tixcocob, etc., these being the names of various native towns in the
peninsula.

When I add that not a single one of these has ever been printed, or even entirely translated
into any European tongue, it will be evident to every archæologist and linguist what a rich
and unexplored mine of information about this interesting people they may present. It is my
intention in this article merely to touch upon a few salient points to illustrate this, leaving
a thorough discussion of their origin and contents to the future editor who will bring them
to the knowledge of the learned world.

Turning first to the meaning of the name "Chilan Balam," it is not difficult to find its derivation.
"Chilan," says Bishop Landa, the second bishop of Yucatan, whose description of the native
customs is an invaluable source to us, "was the name of their priests, whose duty it was to
teach the sciences, to appoint holy days, to treat the sick, to offer sacrifices, and especially
to utter the oracles of the gods. They were so highly honored by the people that usually they
were carried on litters on the shoulders of the devotees."[7-*] Strictly speaking, in Maya
"chilan" means "interpreter," "mouth-piece," from "chij," "the mouth," and in this ordinary
sense frequently occurs in other writings. The word, "balam"--literally, "tiger,"--was also
applied to a class of priests, and is still in use among the natives of Yucatan as the designation
of the protective spirits of fields and towns, as I have shown at length in a recent study
of the word as it occurs in the the native myths of Guatemala.[7-+] "Chilan Balam," therefore,
is not a proper name, but a title, and in ancient times designated the priest who announced
the will of the gods and explained the sacred oracles. This accounts for the universality of
the name and the sacredness of its associations.

The dates of the books which have come down to us are various. One of them, "The Book of Chilan
Balam of Mani," was undoubtedly composed not later than 1595, as is proved by internal evidence.
Various passages in the works of Landa, Lizana, Sanchez Aguilar and Cogolludo--all early historians
of Yucatan,--prove that many of these native manuscripts existed in the sixteenth century.
Several rescripts date from the seventeenth century,--most from the latter half of the eighteenth.

The names of the writers are generally not given, probably because the books, as we have them,
are all copies of older manuscripts, with merely the occasional addition of current items of
note by the copyist; as, for instance, a malignant epidemic which prevailed in the peninsula
in 1673 is mentioned as a present occurrence by the copyist of "The Book of Chilan Balam of
Nabula."

I come now to the contents of these curious works. What they contain may conveniently be classified
under four headings:

Astrological and prophetic matters;

Ancient chronology and history;

Medical recipes and directions;

Later history and Christian teachings.

The last-mentioned consist of translations of the "Doctrina," Bible stories, narratives of
events after the Conquest, etc., which I shall dismiss as of least interest.

The astrology appears partly to be reminiscences of that of their ancient heathendom, partly
that borrowed from the European almanacs of the century 1550-1650. These, as is well known,
were crammed with predictions and divinations. A careful analysis, based on a comparison with
the Spanish almanacs of that time would doubtless reveal how much was taken from them, and
it would be fair to presume that the remainder was a survival of ancient native theories.

But there are not wanting actual prophecies of a much more striking character. These were attributed
to the ancient priests and to a date long preceding the advent of Christianity. Some of them
have been printed in translations in the "Historias" of Lizana and Cogolludo, and of some the
originals were published by the late Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg, in the second volume of the
reports of the "Mission Scientifique au Mexique et dans l'Amérique Centrale." Their authenticity
has been met with considerable skepticism by Waitz and others, particularly as they seem to
predict the arrival of the Christians from the East and the introduction of the worship of
the cross.

It appears to me that this incredulity is uncalled for. It is known that at the close of each
of their larger divisions of time (the so-called "katuns,") a "chilan," or inspired diviner,
uttered a prediction of the character of the year or epoch which was about to begin. Like other
would-be prophets, he had doubtless learned that it is wiser to predict evil than good, inasmuch
as the probabilities of evil in this worried world of ours outweigh those of good; and when
the evil comes his words are remembered to his credit, while, if, perchance, his gloomy forecasts
are not realized, no one will bear him a grudge that he has been at fault. The temper of this
people was, moreover, gloomy, and it suited them to hear of threatened danger and destruction
by foreign foes. But, alas! for them. The worst that the boding words of the oracle foretold
was as nothing to the dire event which overtook them,--the destruction of their nation, their
temples and their freedom, 'neath the iron heel of the Spanish conqueror. As the wise Goethe says:

    "Seltsam ist Prophetenlied,
    Doch mehr seltsam was geschieht."

As to the supposed reference to the cross and its worship, it may be remarked that the native
word translated "cross," by the missionaries, simply means "a piece of wood set upright," and
may well have had a different and special signification in the old days.

By way of a specimen of these prophecies, I quote one from "The Book of Chilan Balam of Chumayel,"
saying at once that for the translation I have depended upon a comparison of the Spanish version
of Lizana, who was blindly prejudiced, and that in French of the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg,
who knew next to nothing about Maya, with the original. It will be easily understood, therefore,
that it is rather a paraphrase than a literal rendering. The original is in short, aphoristic
sentences, and was, no doubt, chanted with a rude rhythm:

    "What time the sun shall brightest shine,
    Tearful will be the eyes of the king.
    Four ages yet shall be inscribed,
    Then shall come the holy priest, the holy god.
    With grief I speak what now I see.
    Watch well the road, ye dwellers in Itza.
    The master of the earth shall come to us.
    Thus prophesies Nahau Pech, the seer,
    In the days of the fourth age,
    At the time of its beginning."

Such are the obscure and ominous words of the ancient oracle. If the date is authentic, it
would be about 1480--the "fourth age" in the Maya system of computing time being a period of
either twenty or twenty-four years at the close of the fifteenth century.

It is, however, of little importance whether these are accurate copies of the ancient prophecies;
they remain, at least, faithful imitations of them, composed in the same spirit and form which
the native priests were wont to employ. A number are given much longer than the above, and
containing various curious references to ancient usages.

I now approach what I consider the peculiar value of these records, apart from the linguistic
mould in which they are cast; and that is the light they throw upon the chronological system
and ancient history of the Mayas. To a limited extent, this has already been brought before
the public. The late Don Pio Perez gave to Mr. Stephens, when in Yucatan, an essay on the method
of computing time among the ancient Mayas, and also a brief synopsis of Maya history, apparently
going back to the third or fourth century of the Christian era. Both were published by Mr.
Stephens in the appendix to his "Travels in Yucatan," and have appeared repeatedly since in
English, Spanish and French.[10-*] They have, up to the present, constituted almost our sole
sources of information on these interesting points. Don Pio Perez was rather vague as to whence
he derived his knowledge. He refers to "ancient manuscripts," "old authorities," and the like;
but, as the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg justly complains, he rarely quotes their words, and
gives no descriptions as to what they were or how he gained access to them.[11-*] In fact,
the whole of Señor Perez's information was derived from these "Books of Chilan Balam;" and,
without wishing at all to detract from his reputation as an antiquary and a Maya scholar, I
am obliged to say that he has dealt with them as scholars so often do with their authorities;
that is, having framed his theories, he quoted what he found in their favor and neglected to
refer to what he observed was against them.

Thus, it is a cardinal question in Yucatecan archæology as to whether the epoch or age by which
the great cycle (the ahau katun,) was reckoned, embraced twenty or twenty-four years. Contrary
to all the Spanish authorities, Perez declared for twenty-four years, supporting himself by
"the manuscripts." It is true there are three of the "Books of Chilan Balam"--those of Mani,
Káua and Oxkutzcab,--which are distinctly in favor of twenty-four years; but, on the other
hand, there are four or five others which are clearly for the period of twenty years, and of
these Don Perez said nothing, although copies of more than one of them were in his library.
So of the epochs, or katuns, of Maya history; there are three or more copies in these books
which he does not seem to have compared with the one he furnished Stephens. His labor will
have to be repeated according to the methods of modern criticism, and with the additional material
obtained since he wrote.

Another valuable feature in these records is the hints they furnish of the hieroglyphic system
of the Mayas. Almost our only authority heretofore has been the essay of Landa. It has suffered
somewhat in credit because we had no means of verifying his statements and comparing the characters
he gives. Dr. Valentini has even gone so far as to attack some of his assertions as "fabrications."
This is an amount of skepticism which exceeds both justice and probability.

The chronological portions of the "Books of Chilan Balam" re[TN-1] partly written with the
ancient signs of the days, months and epochs, and they furnish us, also, delineations of the
"wheels" which the natives used for computing time. The former are so important to the student
of Maya hieroglyphics, that I have added photographic reproductions of them to this paper,
giving also representations of those of Landa for comparison. It will be observed that the
signs of the days are distinctly similar in the majority of cases, but that those of the months
are hardly alike.

The hieroglyphs of the days taken from the "Codex Troano," an ancient Maya book written before
the Conquest, probably about 1400, are also added to illustrate the variations which occurred
in the hands of different scribes. Those from the "Books of Chilan Balam" are copied from a
manuscript known to Maya scholars as the "Codice Perez," of undoubted authenticity and antiquity.[14-*]

The result of the comparison I thus institute is a triumphant refutation of the doubts and
slurs which have been cast on Bishop Landa's work and vindicate for it a very high degree of
accuracy.

The hieroglyphics for the months are quite complicated, and in the "Books of Chilan Balam"
are rudely drawn; but, for all that, two or three of them are evidently identical with those
in the calendar preserved by Landa. Some years ago, Professor de Rosny expressed himself in
great doubt as to the fidelity in the tracing of these hierogylphs[TN-2] of the months, principally
because he could not find them in the two codices at his command.[14-+] As he observes, they
are composite signs, and this goes to explain the discrepancy; for it may be regarded as established
that the Maya script permitted the use of several signs for the same sound, and the sculptor
or scribe was not obliged to represent the same word always by the same figure.

In close relation to chronology is the system of numeration and the arithmetical signs. These
are discussed with considerable fulness, especially in the "Book of Chilan Balam of Káua."
The numerals are represented by exactly the same figures as we find in the Maya manuscripts
of the libraries of Dresden, Pesth, Paris and Madrid; that is, by points or dots up to five,
and the fives by single straight lines, which may be indiscriminately drawn vertically or horizontally.
The same book contains a table of multiplication in Spanish and Maya which settles some disputed
points in the use of the vigesimal system by the Mayas.

A curious chapter in several of the books, especially those of Káua and Mani, is that on the
thirteen ahau katuns, or epochs of the greater cycle of the Mayas. This cycle embraced thirteen
periods, which, as I have before remarked, are computed by some at twenty years each, by others
at twenty-four years each. Each of these katuns was presided over by a chief or king, that
being the meaning of the word ahau. The books above-mentioned give both the name and the portrait,
drawn and colored by the rude hand of the native artist, of each of these kings, and they suggest
several interesting analogies.

They are, in the first place, identical, with one exception, with those on an ancient native
painting, an engraving of which is given by Father Cogolludo in his "History of Yucatan," and
explained by him as the representation of an occurrence which took place after the Spaniards
arrived in the peninsula. Evidently, the native in whose hands the worthy father found it,
fearing that he partook of the fanaticism which had led the missionaries to the destruction
of so many records of the nation, deceived him as to its purport, and gave him an explanation
which imported to the scroll the character of a harmless history.

The one exception is the last or thirteenth chief. Cogolludo appends to this the name of an
Indian who probably did fall a victim to his friendship to the Spaniards. This name, as a sort
of guarantee for the rest of his story, the native scribe inserted in place of the genuine
one. The peculiarity of the figure is that it has an arrow or dagger driven into its eye. Not
only is this mentioned by Cogolludo's informant, but it is represented in the paintings in
both the "Books of Chilan Balam" above noted, and also, by a fortunate coincidence, in one
of the calendar-pages of the "Codex Troano," plate xxiii., in a remarkable cartouche, which,
from a wholly independent course of reasoning, was some time since identified by my esteemed
correspondent, Professor Cyrus Thomas, of Illinois, as a cartouche of one of the ahau katuns,
and probably of the last of them. It gives me much pleasure to add such conclusive proof of
the sagacity of his supposition.[15-*]

There is other evidence to show that the engraving in Cogolludo is a relic of the purest ancient
Maya symbolism,--one of the most interesting which have been preserved to us; but to enter
upon its explanation in this connection would be too far from my present topic.

A favorite theme with the writers of the "Books of Chilan Balam" was the cure of diseases.
Bishop Landa explains the "chilanes" as "sorcerers and doctors," and adds that one of their
prominent duties was to diagnose diseases and point out their appropriate remedies.[18-*] As
we might expect, therefore, considerable prominence is given to the description of symptoms
and suggestions for their alleviation. Bleeding and the administration of preparations of native
plants are the usual prescriptions; but there are others which have probably been borrowed
from some domestic medicine-book of European origin.

The late Don Pio Perez gave a great deal of attention to collecting these native recipes, and
his manuscripts were carefully examined by Dr. Berendt, who combined all the necessary knowledge,
botanical, linguistic and medical, and who has left a large manuscript, entitled "Recetarios
de Indios," which presents the subject fully. He considers the scientific value of these remedies
to be next to nothing, and the language in which they are recorded to be distinctly inferior
to that of the remainder of the "Books of Chilan Balam." Hence, he believes that this portion
of the ancient records was supplanted some time in the last century by medical notions introduced
from European sources. Such, in fact, is the statement of the copyists of the books themselves,
as these recipes, etc., are sometimes found in a separate volume, entitled "The Book of the
Jew,"--"El Libro del Judio." Who this alleged Jewish physician was, who left so wide-spread
and durable a renown among the Yucatecan natives, none of the archæologists has been able to
find out.[18-+]

The language and style of most of these books are aphoristic, elliptical and obscure. The Maya
language has naturally undergone considerable alteration since they were written; therefore,
even to competent readers of ordinary Maya, they are not readily understood. Fortunately, however,
there are in existence excellent dictionaries of the Maya of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, which, were they published, would be sufficient for this purpose.

A few persons in Yucatan have appreciated the desirability of collecting and preserving these
works. Don Pio Perez was the first to do so, and of living Yucatecan scholars particular mention
should be made of the Rev. Canon Don Crescencio Carrillo y An cona,[TN-3] who has written a
good, and I believe the only, description of them which has yet appeared in print.[19-*] They
attracted the earnest attention of that eminent naturalist and ethnologist, the late Dr. C.
Hermann Berendt, and at a great expenditure of time and labor he visited various parts of Yucatan,
and with remarkable skill made fac-simile copies of the most important and complete specimens
which he could anywhere find. This invaluable and unique collection has come into my hands
since his death, and it is this which has prompted me to make known their character and contents
to those interested in such subjects.

FOOTNOTES:

[5-*] Read before the Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia, at its twenty-fourth
annual meeting, January 5th, 1882.

[5-+] Of the numerous authorities which could be quoted on this point, I shall give the words
of but one, Father Alonso Ponce, the Pope's Commissary-General, who travelled through Yucatan
in 1586, when many natives were still living who had been born before the Conquest (1541).
Father Ponce had travelled through Mexico, and, of course, had learned about the Aztec picture-writing,
which he distinctly contrasts with the writing of the Mayas. Of the latter, he says: "Son alabados
de tres cosas entre todos los demas de la Nueva España, la una de que en su antiguedad tenian
caracteres y letras, con que escribian sus historias y las ceremonias y orden de los sacrificios
de sus idolos y su calendario, en libros hechos de corteza de cierto arbol, los cuales eran
unas tiras muy largas de quarta ó tercia en ancho, que se doblaban y recogian, y venia á queder
á manera de un libro encuardenada en cuartilla, poco mas ó menos. Estas letras y caracteres
no las entendian, sino los sacerdotes de los idolos, (que en aquella lengua se llaman 'ahkines,')
y algun indio principal. Despues las entendieron y supieron léer algunos frailos nuestros y
aun las escribien."--("Relacion Breve y Verdadera de Algunas Cosas de las Muchas que Sucedieron
al Padre Fray Alonso Ponce, Comisario-General en las Provincias de la Nueva España," page 392).
I know no other author who makes the interesting statement that these characters were actually
used by the missionaries to impart instruction to the natives; but I learn through Mr. Gatschet,
of the Bureau of Ethnology, Washington, that a manuscript written in this manner by one of
the early padres has recently been discovered.

[5-++] "Se les quemamos todos," he writes, "lo qual á maravilla sentian y les dava pena."--"Relacion
de las Cosas de Yucatan," page 316.

[7-*] "Relacion de las Cosas de Yucatan," page 160. XIX., 1881. The terminal letter in both
these words--"chilan," "balam,"--may be either "n" or "m," the change being one of dialect
and local pronunciation. I have followed the older authorities in writing "Chilan Balam," the
modern preferring "Chilam Balam." Señor Eligio Ancona, in his recently published "Historia
de Yucatan," (Vol. I., page 240, note, Merida, 1878,) offers the absurd suggestion that the
name "balam" was given to the native soothsayers by the early missionaries in ridicule, deriving
it from the well-known personage in the Old Testament. It is surprising that Señor Ancona,
writing in Merida, had never acquainted himself with the Perez manuscripts, nor with those
in the possession of Canon Carrillo. Indeed, the most of his treatment of the ancient history
of his country is disappointingly superficial.

[10-*] For example, in the "Registro Yucateco," Tome III.; "Diccionario Universal de Historia
y Geografia," Tome VIII. (Mexico, 1855); "Diccionario Historico de Yucatan," Tome I. (Merida,
1866); in the appendix to Landa's "Cosas de Yucatan" (Paris, 1864), etc. The epochs, or katuns,
of Maya history have been recently again analyzed by Dr. Felipe Valentini, in an essay in the
German and English languages, the latter in the "Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society,
1880."

[11-*] The Abbé's criticism occurs in the note to page 406 of his edition of Landa's "Cosas
de Yucatan."

[14-*] It is described at length by Don Crescencio Carrillo y Ancona, in his "Disertacion sobre
la Historia de la Lengua Maya" (Merida, 1870). By the "Codex Peresianus," he does not mean
the "Codice Perez," but the Maya manuscript in the Bibliothêque[TN-4] Nationale. The identity
of the names is confusing and unfortunate.

[15-*] "The Manuscript Troano," published in The American Naturalist, August, 1881, page 640.
This manuscript or codex was published in chromo-lithograph, Paris, 1879, by the French Government.

[18-*] "Declarar las necesidades y sus remedios."--"Relation de las Cosas de Yucatan," page
160. Like much of Landa's Spanish, this use of the word "necesidad" is colloquial, and not
classical.

[18-+] A "Medicina Domestica," under the name of "Don Ricardo Ossado, (alias, el Judio,)" was
published at Merida in 1834; but this appears to have been merely a bookseller's device to
aid the sale of the book by attributing it to the "great unknown." (Merida, 1870). 14-+   Bibliothêque
should read Bibliothèque

