I was beginning to get wrong before we left Bournemouth, and went steadily down after our return
to London, so that I had to call in a very shrewd fellow who attends my daughter M--. Last
Monday he told me that more physicking was no good, and that I had better be off here, and
see what exercise and the fresh air of the moors would do for me. So here I came, and mean
to give the place a fair trial.

I do a minimum of ten miles per diem without fatigue, and as I eat, drink, and sleep well,
there ought to be nothing the matter with me. Why, under these circumstances, I should never
feel honestly cheerful, or know any other desire than that of running away and hiding myself,
I don't know. No explanation is to be found even in Foster's "Physiology!" the only thing my
demon can't stand is sharp walking, and I will give him a dose of that remedy when once I get
into trim.

[Indeed he was so much better even after a single day at Ilkley, that he writes home:--]

It really seems to me that I am an imposter for running away, and I can hardly believe that
I felt so ill and miserable four-and-twenty hours ago.

[And on the 28th he writes to Sir M. Foster:--]

I have been improving wonderfully in the last few days. Yesterday I walked to Bolton Abbey,
the Strid, etc., and back, which is a matter of sixteen miles, without being particularly tired,
though the afternoon sun was as hot as midsummer.

It is the old story--a case of candle-snuff--some infernal compound that won't get burnt up
without more oxygenation than is to be had under ordinary conditions...

I want to be back and doing something, and yet have a notion that I should be wiser if I stopped
here a few weeks and burnt up my rubbish effectually. A good deal will depend upon whether
I can get my wife to join me or not. She has had a world of worry lately.

[As to his fortunate choice of an hotel,] "I made up my mind," [he writes,] "to come to this
hotel merely because Bradshaw said it was on the edge of the moor--but for once acting on an
advertisement turned out well." [The moor ran up six or seven hundred feet just outside the
garden, and the hotel itself was well outside and above the town and the crowd of visitors.
Here, with the exception of a day or two in May, and a fortnight at the beginning of June,
he stayed till July, living as far as possible an outdoor life, and getting through a fair
amount of correspondence.

It was not to be expected that he should long remain unknown, and he was sometimes touched,
more often bored, by the forms which this recognition took. Thus two days after his arrival
he writes home:--]

Sitting opposite to me at the table d'hote here is a nice old Scotch lady. People have found
out my name here by this time, and yesterday she introduced herself to me, and expressed great
gratitude for the advice I gave to a son of hers two or three years ago. I had great difficulty
in recollecting anything at all about the matter, but it seems the youngster wanted to go to
Africa, and I advised him not to, at any rate at present. However, the poor fellow went, and
died, and they seem to have found a minute account of his interview with me in his diary.

[But all were not of this kind. On the 26th he writes:--]

I took a three hours' walk over the moors this morning with nothing but grouse and peewits
for company, and it was perfectly delicious. I am beginning to forget that I have a liver,
and even feel mildly disposed to the two fools of women between whom I have to sit every meal.

27th.

...I wish you would come here if only for a few days--it would do you a world of good after
your anxiety and wear and tear for the last week. And you say you are feeling weak. Please
come and let me take care of you a bit; I am sure the lovely air here would set you up. I feel
better than I have for months...

The country is lovely, and in a few days more all the leaves will be out. You can almost hear
them bursting. Now come down on Saturday and rejoice the "sair een" of your old husband who
is wearying for you.

[Another extract from the same correspondence expresses his detestation for a gross breach
of confidence:--]

April 22.

...I have given Mr. -- a pretty smart setting down for sending me Ruskin's letter to him! It
really is iniquitous that such things should be done. Ruskin has a right to say anything he
likes in a private letter and -- must be a perfect cad to send it on to me.

[The following letter on the ideal of a Paleontological Museum is a specialised and improved
version of his earlier schemes on the same subject:--]

4 Marlborough Place, May 3, 1886.

My dear Foster,

I cannot find Hughes' letter, and fancy I must have destroyed it. So I cannot satisfy Newton
as to the exact terms of his question.

But I am quite clear that my answer was not meant to recommend any particular course for Cambridge,
when I know nothing about the particular circumstances of the case, but referred to what I
should like to do if I had carte blanche.

It is as plain as the nose on one's face (mine is said to be very plain) that Zoological and
Botanical collections should illustrate (1) Morphology, (2) Geographical Distribution, (3)
Geological Succession.

It is also obvious to me that the morphological series ought to contain examples of all the
extinct types in their proper places. But I think it will be no less plain to any one who has
had anything to do with Geology and Paleontology that the great mass of fossils is to be most
conveniently arranged stratigraphically. The Jermyn St. Museum affords an example of the stratigraphical
arrangement.

I do not know that there is anywhere a collection arranged according to Provinces of Geographical
Distribution. It would be a great credit to Cambridge to set the example of having one.

If I had a free hand in Cambridge or anywhere else I should build (A) a Museum, open to the
public, and containing three strictly limited and selected collections; one morphologically,
one geographically, and one stratigraphically arranged; and (B) a series of annexes arranged
for storage and working purposes to contain the material which is of no use to any but specialists.
I am convinced that this is the only plan by which the wants of ordinary people can be supplied
efficiently, while ample room is afforded for additions to any extent without large expense
in building.

On the present plan or no plan, Museums are built at great cost, and in a few years are choked
for want of room.

If you have the opportunity, I wish you would explain that I gave no opinion as to what might
or might not be expedient under present circumstances at Cambridge. I do not want to seem meddlesome.

Ever yours very faithfully,

T.H. Huxley.

Don't forget Cayley.

N.B.--As my meaning seems to have been misunderstood I wish, if you have the chance, you would
make it clear that I do not want three brick and mortar museums--but one public museum--containing
a threefold collection of typical forms, a biological Trinity in Unity in fact.

It might conciliate the clerics if you adopted this illustration. But as YOUR OWN, mind. I
should not like them to think me capable of it.

[However, even Ilkley was not an infallible cure. Thus he writes to Sir M. Foster:--]

May 17.

I am ashamed of myself for not going to town to attend the Government Grant Committee and Council,
but I find I had better stop here till the end of the month, when I must return for a while anyhow.

I have improved very much here, and so long as I take heaps of exercise every day I have nothing
to complain of beyond a fit of blue devils when I wake in the morning.

But I don't want to do any manner of work, still less any manner of play, such as is going
on in London at this time of year, and I think I am wise to keep out of it as long as I can.

I wish I knew what is the matter with me. I feel always just on the verge of becoming an absurd
old hypochondriac, and as if it only wanted a touch to send me over.

May 27.

...The blue devils worry me far less than they did. If there were any herd of swine here I
might cast them out altogether, but I expect they would not go into blackfaced sheep.

I am disposed to stop not more than ten days in London, but to come back here and bring some
work with me. In fact I do not know that I should return yet if it were not that I do not wish
to miss our usual visit to Balliol, and that my Spanish daughter is coming home for a few months...

I am overwhelmed at being taken at my word about scientific federation. [I.e. a federation
between the Royal Society and scientific societies in the colonies.] "Something will transpire"
as old Gutzlaff [This worthy appears to have been an admiral on the China station about 1840.]
said when he flogged plaintiff, defendant and witnesses in an obscure case.

P.S.--I have had an invitation from -- to sign "without committing myself to details" an approbation
of his grand scheme. [For the reorganisation of the Fisheries Department.] A stupendous array
of names appear thus committed to the "principle of the Bill." I prefer to be the Hartington
of the situation.

[During this first stay in London he wrote twice to Mr. Herbert Spencer, from whom he had received
not only some proofs, as before, on biological points, but others from his unpublished autobiography.
After twice reading these, Huxley had merely marked a couple of paragraphs containing personal
references which might possibly be objectionable] "to the 'heirs, administrators and assigns,'
if there are any, or to the people themselves if they are living still." [He continues, June 1:--]

You will be quite taken aback at getting a proof from me with so few criticisms, but even I
am not so perverse as to think that I can improve your own story of your own life!

I notice a curious thing. If Ransom [Dr. Ransom of Nottingham.] had not overworked himself,
I should probably not be writing this letter.

For if he had worked less hard I might have been first and he second at the Examination at
the University of London in 1845. In which case I should have obtained the Exhibition, should
not have gone into the navy, and should have forsaken science for practice...

[Again on June 4:--]

My dear Spencer,

Here's a screed for you! I wish you well through it.

Mind I have no a priori objection to the transmission of functional modifications whatever.
In fact, as I told you, I should rather like it to be true.

But I argued against the assumption (with Darwin as I do with you) of the operation of a factor
which, if you will forgive me for saying so, seems as far off support by trustworthy evidence
now as ever it was.

Ever yours very faithfully,

T.H. Huxley.

[On the same day he wrote to Mr., afterwards Sir John, Skelton:--]

4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W., June 4, 1886.

My dear Skelton,

A civil question deserves a civil answer--Yes. I am sorry to say I know--nobody better--"what
it is to be unfit for work." I have been trying to emerge from that condition, first at Bournemouth,
and then at Ilkley, for the last five months, with such small success that I find a few days
in London knocks me up, and I go back to the Yorkshire moors next week.

We have no water-hens there--nothing but peewits, larks, and occasional grouse--but the air
and water are of the best, and the hills quite high enough to bring one's muscles into play.

I suppose that Nebuchadnezzar was quite happy so long as he grazed and kept clear of Babylon;
if so, I can hold him for my Scripture parallel.

I wish I could accept your moral Number 2, but there is amazingly little evidence of "reverential
care for unoffending creation" in the arrangements of nature, that I can discover. If our ears
were sharp enough to hear all the cries of pain that are uttered in the earth by men and beasts,
we should be deafened by one continuous scream!

And yet the wealth of superfluous loveliness in the world condemns pessimism. It is a hopeless
riddle.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

Please remember me to Mrs. Skelton.

[The election of a new Headmaster (Dr. Warre) at Eton, where he was a member of the Governing
Body, was a matter of no small concern to him at this moment. Some parts of the existing system
seemed impossible to alter, though a reform in the actual scheme and scope of teaching seemed
to him both possible and necessary for the future well-being of the school. He writes to his
eldest son on July 6, 1886:--]

The whole system of paying the Eton masters by the profits of the boarding-houses they keep
is detestable to my mind, but any attempt to alter it would be fatal.

...I look to the new appointment with great anxiety. It will make or mar Eton. If the new Headmaster
has the capacity to grasp the fact that the world has altered a good deal since the Eton system
was invented, and if he has the sense to adapt Eton to the new state of things, without letting
go that which was good in the old system, Eton may become the finest public school in the country.

If on the contrary he is merely a vigorous representative of the old system pure and simple,
the school will go to the dogs.

I think it is not unlikely that there may be a battle in the Governing Body over the business,
and that I shall be on the losing side. But I am used to that, and shall do what I think right
nevertheless.

[The same letter contains his reply to a suggestion that he should join a society whose object
was to prevent a railway from being run right through the Lake district.]

I am not much inclined to join the "Lake District Defence Society." I value natural beauty
as much as most people--indeed I value it so much, and think so highly of its influence that
I would make beautiful scenery accessible to all the world, if I could. If any engineering
or mining work is projected which will really destroy the beauty of the Lakes, I will certainly
oppose it, but I am not disposed, as Goschen said, to "give a blank cheque" to a Defence Society,
the force of which is pretty certain to be wielded by the most irrational fanatics amongst
its members.

Only the other day I walked the whole length of Bassenthwaite from Keswick and back, and I
cannot say that the little line of rails which runs along the lake, now coming into view and
now disappearing, interfered with my keen enjoyment of the beauty of the lake any more than
the macadamised road did. And if it had not been for that railway I should not have been able
to make Keswick my headquarters, and I should have lost my day's delight.

People's sense of beauty should be more robust. I have had apocalyptic visions looking down
Oxford Street at a sunset before now.

Ever, dear lad, your loving father,

T.H. Huxley.

[After this he took his wife to Harrogate,] "just like Clapham Common on a great scale," [where
she was ordered to drink the waters. For himself, it was as good as Ilkley, seeing that he
needed] "nothing but fresh air and exercise, and just as much work that interests me as will
keep my mind from getting 'blue mouldy.'" [The work in this case was the chapter in the Life
of Charles Darwin, which he had promised Mr. F. Darwin to finish before going abroad.

On July 10, he writes to Sir M. Foster on the rejection of the Home Rule Bill:--]

The smashing of the G.O.M. appears to be pretty complete, though he has unfortunately enough
left to give him the means of playing an ugly game of obstruction in the next Parliament.

You have taken the shine out of my exultation at Lubbock's majority--though I confess I was
disheartened to see so many educated men going in for the disruption policy. If it were not
for Randolph I should turn Tory, but that fellow will some day oust Salisbury as Dizzy ousted
old Derby, and sell his party to Parnell or anybody else who makes a good bid.

We are flourishing on the whole. Sulphide of wife joins with me in love.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

[On the 21st he writes:--]

The formation of Huxley sulphide will be brought to a sudden termination to-morrow when we
return to London. The process has certainly done my wife a great deal of good and I wish it
could have gone on a week or two longer, but our old arrangements are upset and we must start
with the chicks for Switzerland on the 27th, that is next Tuesday.

CHAPTER 2.19.

1886.

[The earlier start was decided upon for the sake of one of his daughters; who had been ill.
He went first to Evolena, but the place did not suit him, and four days after his arrival went
on to Arolla, whence he writes on August 3:--]

We reached Evolena on Thursday last...We had glorious weather Thursday and Friday, and the
latter day (having both been told carefully to avoid over-exertion) the wife and I strolled,
quite unintentionally, as far as the Glacier de Ferpecle and back again. Luckily the wife is
none the worse, and indeed, I think in which more tired of the two. But we saw at once that
Evolena was a mistake for our purpose, and were confirmed in that opinion by the deluge of
rain on Saturday. The hotel is down in a hole at the tail of a dirty Swiss village, and only
redeemed by very good cooking. So, Sunday being fine, I, E. and H. started up here to prospect,
18 miles up and down, and 2000 feet to climb, and did it beautifully. It is just the place
for us, at the tail of a glacier in the midst of a splendid amphitheatre of 11 to 12,000 feet
snow heights, and yet not bare and waste, any quantity of stone-pines growing about...I rather
long for the flesh-pots of Evolena--cooking here being decidedly rudimentary--otherwise we
are very well off.

[The keen air of six thousand feet above sea level worked wonders with the invalids. The lassitude
of the last two years was swept away, and Huxley came home eager for active life. Here too
it was that, for occupation, he took up the study of gentians; the beginning of that love of
his garden which was so great a delight to him in his last years. On his return home he writes:--]

4 Marlborough Place, September 10, 1886.

My dear Foster,

We got back last evening after a very successful trip. Arolla suited us all to a T, and we
are all in great force. As for me, I have not known of the existence of my liver, and except
for the fact that I found fifteen or sixteen miles with a couple of thousand feet up and down
quite enough, I could have deluded myself into the fond imagination that I was twenty years
younger.

By way of amusement I bought a Swiss Flora in Lausanne and took to botanising--and my devotion
to the gentians led the Bishop of Chichester--a dear old man, who paid us (that is the hotel)
a visit--to declare that I sought the "Ur-gentian" as a kind of Holy Grail. The only interruption
to our felicity was the death of a poor fellow, who was brought down on a guide's back from
an expedition he ought not to have undertaken, and whom I did my best to keep alive one night.
But rapid pleuritic effusion finished him the next morning, in spite of (I hope not in consequence
of) such medical treatment as I could give him.

I see you had a great meeting at Birmingham, but I know not details. The delegation to Sydney
is not a bad idea, but why on earth have they arranged that it shall arrive in the middle of
the hot weather? Speechifying with the thermometer at 90 degrees in the shade will try the
nerves of the delegates, I can tell them.

I shall remain quietly here and see whether I can stand London. I hope I may, for the oestrus
of work is upon me--for the first time this couple of years. Let me have some news of you.
With our love to your wife and you.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

4 Marlborough Place, N.W., September 14, 1886.

My dear Donnelly,

I hear that some of your alguazils were looking after me yesterday, so I had better give myself
up at once--hoping it will be considered in the sentence.

The fact is I have been going to write to you ever since we came back last Thursday evening,
but I had about fifty other letters to write and got sick of the operation.

We are all in great force, and as for me, I never expected a year ago to be he well I am. I
require to look in the glass and study the crows' feet and the increasing snow cap on the summit
of my Tete noire (as it once was), to convince myself I am not twenty years younger.

How long it will last I don't feel sure, but I am going to give London as little chance as
possible.

I trust you have all been thriving to a like extent. Scott [Assistant Professor of Botany at
the Royal College of Science.] wrote to me the other day wanting to take his advanced flock
(two--one, I believe, a ewe-lamb) to Kew. I told him I had no objection, but he had better
consult you.

I have not been to South Kensington yet--as I have a devil (botanical--) and must satisfy him
before doing anything else. It's the greatest sign of amendment that I have gone in for science
afresh. When I am ill (and consequently venomous), nothing satisfies me but gnawing at theology;
it's a sort of crib-biting.

Our love to Mrs. Donnelly. I suppose G.H. [Gordon Huxley Donnelly, Sir John's son.] is by this
time a kind of Daniel Lambert physically and Solomon mentally--my blessing to him.

Ever yours very faithfully,

T.H. Huxley.

[As a sequel to the sad event mentioned in the former letter, the relations of the young man
who had died so suddenly at Arolla wished to offer Huxley some gift in grateful recognition
of the kindness he had shown to the poor fellow; but being unable to fix upon any suitable
object, begged him to accept a considerable sum of money and expend it on any object he pleased
as a memento. To this he replied, November 21, 1886:--]

I am very much obliged for the kind recognition of my unfortunately unavailing efforts to be
of service to your brother-in-law which is contained in your letter.

But I and those who right willingly helped me did nothing more than our plain duty in such
a case; and though I fully appreciate the motives which actuate Mrs. -- and yourself and friends,
and would gladly accept any trifle as a memento of my poor friend (I call him so, for we really
struck up a great friendship in our twelve hours' acquaintance), I could not with any comfort
use the very handsome cheque you offer.

Let me propose a compromise. As you will see by the enclosed paper, a colleague of mine has
just died leaving widow and children in very poor circumstances. Contribute something to the
fund which is being raised for their benefit, and I shall consider it as the most agreeable
present you could possibly make to me.

And if you wish me to have a personal memento of our friend, send me a pipe that belonged to
him. I am greatly devoted to tobacco, and will put it in a place of honour in my battery of pipes.

[The bracing effects of Arolla enabled him to stay two months in town before again retiring
to Ilkley to be] "screwed up." [He had on the stocks his Gentian Paper and the chapter for
the Darwin Life, besides the chapter on the Progress of Science for the "Reign of Queen Victoria,"
all of which he finished off this autumn; he was busy with Technical Education, and the Egyptian
borings which were being carried out under the superintendence of the Royal Society. Finally
he was induced by a "diabolical plot" on the part of Mr. Spencer to read, and in consequence
to answer, an article in the "Fortnightly" for November by Mr. Lilly on "Materialism and Morality."
These are the chief points with which the following correspondence is concerned.]

4 Marlborough Place, September 16, 1886.

My dear Foster,

I enclose the Report [The Annual Report of the Examiners in Physiology under the Science and
Art Department, which, being still an Examiner he had to sign.] and have nothing to suggest
except a quibble at page 4. If you take a stick in your hand you may feel lots of things and
determine their form, etc., with the other end of it, but surely the stick is properly said
to be insensible. Ditto with the teeth. I feel very well with mine (which are paid for) but
they are surely not sensible? Old Tomes once published the opinion that the contents of the
dentine tubules were sensory nerves, on the ground of our feeling so distinctly through our
teeth. He forgot the blind man's stick. Indeed the reference of sensation to the end of a stick
is one of the most interesting of psychological facts.

It is extraordinary how those dogs of examinees return to their vomit. Almost all the obstinate
fictions you mention are of a quarter of a century date. Only then they were dominant and epidemic--now
they are sporadic.

I wish Pasteur or somebody would find some microbe with which the rising generation could be
protected against them.

We shall have to rearrange the Examination business--this partner having made his fortune and
retiring from firm. Think over what is to be done.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

You don't happen to grow gentians in your Alpine region, do you?

[Of his formal responsibility for the examinations he had written earlier in the year:--]

Wells House, Ilkley, June 15, 1886.

My dear Donnelly,

I think it is just as well that you could not lay your hands on ink, for if you had you would
only have blacked them. (N.B. This is a goak.)

You know we resolved that it was as well that I should go on as Examiner (unpaid) this year.
But I rather repent me of it--for although I could be of use over the questions, I have had
nothing to do with checking the results of the Examination except in honours, and I suspect
that Foster's young Cambridge allies tend always to screw the standard up.

I am inclined to think that I had much better be out of it next year. The attempt to look over
examination papers now would reduce the little brains I have left to mere pulp--and, on the
other hand, if there is any row about results, it is not desirable that I should have to say
that I have not seen the answers.

When I go you will probably get seven devils worse than the first--but that it is not the fault
of the first devil.

I am picking up here wonderfully in spite of the bad weather. It rained hard yesterday and
blew ditto--to-day it is blowing dittoes--but there is sunshine between the rain and squalls.

I hope you are better off. What an outlandish name "Tetronila." I don't believe you have spelt
it right. With best regards to Mrs. Donnelly and my godson.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

4 Marlborough Place, September 16, 1886.

My dear Hooker,

I have sucked Grisebach's brains, looked up "Flora B. Americana," and "F. Antarctica and New
Zealand," and picked about in other quarters. I found I knew as much as Grisebach had to tell
me (and more) about lutea, purpureo-punctata, acaulis, campestris, and the verna lot, which
are all I got hold of at Arolla. But he is very good in all but classification, which is logically
"without form and void, and darkness on the face of it."

I shall have to verify lots of statements about gentians I have not seen, but at present the
general results are very curious and interesting. The species fall into four groups, one PRIMARY
least differentiated--three, specialised.

1. Lobes of corolla fringed. 2. Coronate. 3. Interlobate (i.e. not the "plica" between the
proper petals).

Now the interesting point is that the Antarctic species are all primary and so are the great
majority of the Andean forms. Lutea is the only old-world primary, unless the Himalayan Moorcroftiana
belongs here. The Arctic forms are also primary, but the petals more extensively united.

The specialised types are all Arctogeal with the exception of half a dozen or so Andean species
including prostrata.

There is a strange general parallelism with the crayfishes! which also have their primary forms
in Australia and New Zealand, avoid E. S. America and Africa, and become most differentiated
in Arctogaea. But there are also differences in detail.

It strikes me that this is uncommonly interesting; but, of course, all the information about
the structure of the flowers, etc., I get at second hand, wants verifying.

Have you done the gentians of your "Flora Indica" yet? Do look at them from this point of view.

I cannot make out what Grisebach means by his division of Chondrophylla. What is a "cartilaginous"
margin to a leaf?--"Folia margine cartilaginea!" He has a lot of Indian species under this head.

I send you a rough scheme I have drawn up. Please let me have it back. Any annotations thankfully
received. Shan't apologise for bothering you.

I hope the pension is settled at last.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

4 Marlborough Place, September 22, 1886.

My dear Hooker,

I have written to Lubbock a long screed stating my views [Referring to the relations between
the South Kensington department and the City and Guilds Committee on Technical Education.]
with unmistakable distinctness as politeful as may be, and asking him, if he thought well,
to send them on to whomsoever it may concern. As old Gutzlaff used to say when he wanted to
get evidence from a Chinee--"Gif him four dozen, someting vill transpire." At any rate the
Chinee transpired, and I hope some official will.

Here beginneth more gentian craze.

I have not examined Moorcroft. yet, but if the figure in Roxb. is trustworthy it's a primary
and no mistake. I can't understand your admitting Amarellae without coronae. The presence of
a corona is part of the definition of the amarella group, and an amarella without a corona
is a primary ipso facto.

Taking the facts as I have got them in the rough, and subject to minor verifications, the contrast
between the Andean, Himalayan, and Caucasian Gentian Florae is very striking.

TABLE OF GENTIAN FLORAE.

Column 1: Place. Column 2: Simplices. Column 3: Ciliatae. Column 4: Coronatae. Column 5: Interlobatae.

Andes : 27 : 0 (?) : 15 : 2.

Himalayas 1 (Moorecroft.) : 0 : 4 : 32.

Caucasus Pyrenees (all one) : 2 (lutea, umbellata) : 2 : 5 : 21.

I don't think Ciliatae worth anything as a division. I took it as it stood.

It is clear that migration helps nothing, as between the old-world and South American Florae.
It is the case of the Tapirs (Andean and Sino-Malayan) over again. Relics of a tertiary Flora
which once extended from South America to Eurasia through North America (by the west, probably).

I see a book by Engler on the development of Floras since tertiary epoch. Probably the beggar
has the idea.

Ever yours,

T.H. Huxley.

Godalming, September 25, 1886.

My dear Foster,

We are here till to-morrow on a visit to Leonard, seeing how the young folks keep house.

I brought the Egyptian report down with me. It is very important, and in itself justifies the
expenditure. Any day next (that is to say this) week that you like I can see Colonel Turner.
If you and Evans can arrange a day I don't think we need mind the rest of the Committee. We
must get at least two other borings ten or fifteen miles off, if possible on the same parallel,
by hook or by crook. It will tell us more about the Nile valley than has ever been known. That
Italian fellow who published sections must have lied considerably.

