In the third place the evidence seems to preponderate in favour of permanency of species. There
can be no doubt that both plants and animals may, by the influence of breeding, and of external
agents operating upon their constitution, be greatly modified, so as to give rise to varieties
and races different from what before existed. But there are limits to such modifications, as
in the different kind and breed of dogs; and no organized beings can, by the mere working of
natural causes, be made to pass from the type of one species to that of another. A wolf by
domestication, for example, can never become a dog, nor the ourang-outang by the force of external
circumstances be brought within the circle of the human species.

In this opinion Mr. LYELL, Dr. PRICHARD, and Mr. LAWRENCE, concur. Thus for example, CUVIER
remarks that, notwithstanding all the differences of age, appearance and habits, which we find
in the dogs of various races and countries, and though we have (in the Egyptian mummies) skeletons
of this animal as it existed 3,000 years ago, the relation of the bones to each other remains
essentially the same; and with all the varieties of their shape and size, there are characters
which resist all the influences, both of external nature, of human intercourse, and of time.

What varieties, again, in the forms of the different breeds of horses and horned cattle; racers,
hunters, coach horses, dray horses, and ponies; short-horns and long-horns, Devons and Herefords,
polled galloways and Shetlands; how unlike are the unimproved breeds of cattle as they existed
a century ago before the march of agricultural improvement began, and how different were most
of these as then existing in what may be called the normal state from the wild cattle produced
in Chillington Park. It has been found, however, when external and artificial conditions are
removed, and these different breeds are allowed to run wild, as in the Pampas and Australia,
no matter what the diversity of size, shape, and colour of the domestic breeds, they reverted
in their wild state, in these respects, to their primitive types.

So again with regard to cultivated vegetables and flowers. How different are the species of
the red cabbage and the cauliflower; who would have expected them to be varieties of the wild
brassica oleracea? Yet from that they have been derived by cultivation. They have, however,
a tendency like animals to revert to the original type, or, in the gardener's phrase, to degenerate,
which it requires the utmost care on his part to counteract. When left to a state of nature,
they speedily lose their acquired forms, properties and character, and regain those of the
original species.

If species be permanent--if no education or training can educe new kinds--if the higher classes
of animals are not the results of meliorations of the lower--whence did they come? This question
we are not bound to answer. It might be as reasonably asked, whence did the lower classes come?
Geology, like other sciences, does not conduct us to the beginning, it only takes up creation
at certain ulterior stages of development. The changes and construction of the globe may have
been different in different parts; it has not been proved that geological revolutions have
been either universal or contemporary. There may have been climates and regions adapted to
the existence of the higher class of land animals, while contemporarily therewith other portions
of the globe might be undergoing changes beneath the ocean. It is not improbable that the human
species dwelt nearly stationary for ages on the old continents of Africa and Asia, while Europe
and America were covered with water. Supposing these new continents formed, either by the gradual
subsidence of the sea or the rising of its bed, successive inhabitants would follow in the
order presented by existing organic remains. While covered by the sea, what now form Europe
and America could only be peopled by marine animals; but as the land rose or the waters subsided
into their ocean channels, and dry land appeared, reptiles and amphibiæ might become the occupants;
next, as the earth became drier and more salubrious, the new continent would be resorted to
by terrestrial animals; in a still more advanced stage of purification and salubrity, man himself,
as the lord of all the preceding classes of immigrants, would take possession, and as he still
continues the living occupant it is premature to look for his petrifaction.

ORIGIN OF THE ANIMATED TRIBES.

Science has mastered many perplexities, but is almost powerless as ever in generation. All
that lives, and still more all that moves, must have a pre-existing germ formed independently
of the created being, but which is essential to its existence, and fixes the type of organization.
The old adage--omne animal ab ovo--may be taken as generally true. But though every animal
has its primordial egg or germ, all germs are not identical. In the beginning of life there
are other organic elements besides the ovum. Partly on direct proof and partly on good analogy,
it may be inferred that these differ in different species--that each in the first stages of
existence is bound by a different and immutable mode of development--and, if so, there can
be no embryotic identity. "By no change of conditions," says Dr. CLARKE, "can two ova of animals
of the same species be developed into different animal species; neither by any provision of
identical conditions can two ova of different species be developed into animals of the same
kind." If these views be right, and we believe them to be so, there cannot be a transmutation
of species under the influence of external circumstances.

Baffled in the effort either to create species or organically to change them, attempts have
been made to approach nearer to the source of vitality, and explain the chemical, electric,
or mechanical laws by which the vital principle is influenced. For this purpose various hypotheses
have been put forth; one is the noted conjecture of Lord MONBODDO, that man is only an advanced
development of the chimpanzee or ourang-outang. In this way the swiftness of the antelope,
the claws and teeth of the lion, the trunk of the elephant, the long neck of the giraffe have
been produced, it is supposed, by a certain plastic character in the construction of animals,
operated upon for a long course of ages by the attempts which these animals make to attain
objects which their previous organization did not place within their reach. This is what is
meant by the hypothesis of progressive tendencies, and which requires for its validity not
only the assumption of a mere capacity for change, but of active principles conducive to improvement
and the attainment of higher powers and faculties. More recently ST. HILAIRE has published
a paper in which he speaks of the immutability of species as a conviction that is on the decline,
and that the age of CUVIER is on the close. Carried away by what Professor PHILLIPS has called
a poetical conjecture that cannot be proved, this writer propounded the speculation that the
present crocodiles are really the offspring of crocodilian reptiles, the difference being merely
the effect of physical conditions, especially operating during long geological periods upon
one original race. The human species, he contends, are but an advanced development of the higher
order of the monkey tribe, and that the negroes are degenerating towards that type again. According
to him the sivatherium--a fossil animal that had been found in the Himalaya mountains--was
the primeval type that time had fined down into the giraffe from long-continued feeding on
the branches of trees. Dr. FALCONER and Capt. CAUTLEY, however, have shown that anatomical
proofs are all against this inference, but if any doubt remained it must yield to the fact,
that among the fauna of the Sewalik hills the sivatherium and the giraffe were contemporaries.

The author of the Vestiges of Creation has put forth an hypothesis founded on the preceding
conjectures, but more compact and conclusive. (p. 231.) The arguments by which the author endeavours
to prove his hypothesis may be thus compressed.

According to him foetal development is a science, illustrated by HUNTER'S great collection
of the Royal College of Surgeons, and established by the conclusions of ST. HILAIRE and TIEDMANN.
Its primary positions are--1. That the embryos of all animals are not distinguishably different
from each other; and, 2. That those of all animals pass through a series of phases of development,
each of which is the type or analogue of the permanent configuration of tribes inferior to
it in the scale. Higher the order of animals, the more numerous its stages of progress. Man
himself is not exempt from this law. The period of gestation determines the species; protract
it, and the species is advanced to a higher class. This might be done by the force of certain
conditions operating upon the system of the mother. Give good conditions and the young she
produces will improve in development; give bad conditions and it will recede. Cases of monstrous
birth in the human species are appealed to, in which the most important organs are left imperfectly
developed; the heart, for instance, having sometimes advanced no further than the three-chambered
or reptile form, while there are instances of that organ being left in the two-chambered or
fish-like form. These defects arise from a failure of the power of development in the mother,
occasioned by misery or bad health, and they are but the converse of those conditions that
carry on species to species. The differences of sexes is the result of foetal progress only
one degree less marked than that of a change of species. Sex is fully ascertained to be a matter
of development. All beings are at one stage of the embryotic progress female. A certain number
of them are afterwards advanced to the more powerful sex. For proof of this, the economy of
bees is cited; when they wish to raise a queen-bee, or true female, they prepare for the larva
a more commodious cell, and feed it with delicate food. But we shall here stop to remark on
the author's argument up to this point.

It is manifest, according to his hypothesis, that neither sex nor species depend on the ancestral
germ, but simply on physical conditions and mechanical development. But eminent physiologists
deny that the facts are such as he has stated; they deny, as we have stated in a former section,
that the foetal progress is such as the Vestiges represent them to be; they deny that the human
embryo, for example, exhibits in successive stages the form of fish, lizard, bird, beast: on
the contrary, they contend that it is only in the earliest period of the organic germ, when
the manifestations are almost too obscure for microscopic sense, that any resemblance exists;
that immediately the organic germ becomes sensible to observation, sex and species are found
to be fixed. Take, for example, the vertebrata; in these, by some mysterious bond of union,
the organic globules are seen to arrange themselves into two nearly parallel rows. We may then
say that the keel of the animal is laid down, and in it we have the first rudiments of a backbone
and a continuous spinal chord. But during the progress and completion of this first organic
process no changes have been observed assimilating the nascent embryo to any of the inferior
animals. The next series of changes in the germinal membrane are of two kinds--in one the nervous
system, the organs of motion, the intestinal canal, the heart and blood-vessels are manifested;
the other set of changes, which are subsequent, produce the perfection of the animal and determine
its sex. All these manifestations result from germinal appendages that cannot be severed or
changed without ruin to the embryo, and the conditions essential to life as the structure advances
are due temperature, due nutriment of the nervous organs, and due access to the atmospheric
air. Without, therefore, pursuing further this part of the inquiry, we shall remark that the
question at issue between the Vestiges and its opponents is one of facts--of conflicting evidence--to
be tried by the jury of the public, or rather by those who, from science or professional pursuits,
are competent to form an authoritative opinion. Our own conclusion is, that in face of the
testimony adduced against it, the author's hypothesis is not yet established.

For proof that species do change, and that even new species have been actually and recently
produced, the author has adduced statements certainly as questionable and little satisfactory
as his representation of foetal phenomena. We can only briefly enumerate them. First we are
told that oats sown at midsummer, if kept cropped down, so as to be prevented shooting into
ear, and then allowed to remain in the ground over winter, will spring up next year in the
form of rye (p. 226). This need not be disputed about; the experiment can be easily tried;
but if rye were the result, it would be no conclusive proof of a translation of species. Perhaps
the oat-plants perished under the operation of repeated cuttings, and the rye seed was dormant
in the earth and sprung up in its place; or, if not so, oats and rye may not be different species,
only varieties of the same species. They are scarcely more dissimilar than the primrose, the
cowslip, and the oxlip, which have all been raised from the seed of the same plant, and are
now regarded by botanists as varieties instead of species.

When lime is laid on waste ground we are told that white clover will spring up spontaneously,
and in situations where no clover-seed could have been left dormant in the soil (p. 182). But
how is this to be proved? It is certain that seeds will remain dormant in the soil for centuries,
and then spring up the first year the soil is turned up by the plough. Some seeds have retained
their vitality for thousands of years in the old tombs of Egypt; they have been repeatedly
brought to England, sown, and produced good wheat. The entoza are dwelt upon; they are creatures
living in the interior of other animals, of which the tape-worm that infests the human body
is a melancholy instance. In these illustrations we think the author has some show of reason,
for we feel convinced that there is such a thing as spontaneous generation from the inorganic
substance, wisely provided for clearing the earth of noxious effluvia and putrid matter, and
converting them into new elements conducive to health and life. We believe in this source of
vitality from its wisdom and necessity, its necessity and wisdom, in our estimate, being strong
presumptive proofs of its existence in harmony with the general forecast and economy of nature.
Of the self-originating spring of life, some of the examples adduced by the author are proofs,
and of which we have familiar illustrations in cheese-mites, maggots in carrion, and the green
fly that breeds so profusely in weak and decaying vegetation; in all which by some inscrutable
law the organic germ, without an antecedent, appears to evolve from the dead or putrifying
mass for its riddance and transmutation.

Conceding, however, thus far to the author, we are not prepared to admit that the creative
powers of Messrs. CROSSE and WEEKES has been established. These gentlemen are said (p. 190)
to have introduced a stranger in the animal kingdom, a species of acarus or mite amidst a solution
of silica submitted to the electric current. The insects produced by the action of a galvanic
battery continued for eleven months are represented as minute and semi-transparent, and furnished
with long bristles. One of the creatures resulting from this elaborate term of gestation was
observed in the very act of emerging, in its first-born nudity, and sought concealment in a
corner of the apparatus. Some of them were observed to go back into the parent fluid and occasionally
they devoured each other; and soon after they were called to life, they were disposed to multiply
their species in the common way! So much for the experiment; against its verity it is alleged,
first, that the Acarus Crossii are not a new species, or if new, that neither Mr. CROSSE nor
Mr. WEEKES, who repeated Mr. CROSSE'S experiment, produced them, but only aided by the voltaic
battery the development of the insects from their eggs. Such a mode of generation is contrary
to all human experience, and can only be believed in on the strongest corroborative proof.

Neither by chemistry nor galvanism can man, we apprehend, be more than instrumental and co-operative,
not originally and independently creative. In almost every form of life, whether animal or
vegetable, art can multiply varieties,--can train, direct--but cannot form new species. This
is the mockery of science. With all its invention and resource, it cannot produce organic originals.
It can rear a crab-apple into a golden-pippin, or wild sea-weed into a luxuriant cabbage; it
can raise infinite varieties of roses, tulips, and pansies, but can create no new plant, fruit,
or flower. Man can make a steam-engine, or a watch, but he cannot make a fly, a midge, or blade
of grass. He is an ingenious compiler, but not a creator; and his powers of manufacture and
conversion are restricted within narrow boundaries. He cannot wander far in the indulgence
of his fancies without being recalled, and compelled to return to the first models set by the
Great Architect. The further he strays from primitive types in the effort to improve, by crossing,
cutting, and grafting, and proportionably less becomes the procreative force. Hybrids are notoriously
sterile. Garden fruit is not permanent, and requires to be renewed from seed. The law seems
universal in plants and animals, that the vital energy or germ is less forcible and prolific
in the pampered and artificial, than in the natural and wild races.

HYPOTHESIS OF THE VITAL PRINCIPLE. (p. 177.)

These are the advances towards generation by chemistry and electricity. The process, however,
according to this detail, appears still far from complete. Albumen is to be produced "by artificial
means;" and even then we should doubt entire success. Chemists have long commanded the power
to resolve the seeds of animal and vegetable life into their elements; they have analysed them,
and shown the exact weight and proportion of each constituent; but they never could put them
together again, or, by any similar compound produce the primordial egg or organic germ, from
which a living being would arise. A connecting link--a vital spark, or animating soul--is always
wanting to complete the existence of the Prometheus of the laboratory. Mark, too, the "if,"
and the "might," in this most lame and impotent hypothesis:--"If, therefore, these globules
be identical with the cells which are held to be reproductive, it might be said," &c. Globules
can be easily produced; the passage of the electric fluid through water will produce aerial
globules in rapid and expansive movement; boys can produce them with suds and a tobacco-pipe
in rapid succession, each, for aught we know, containing a "granule" that multiplies by "fissiporous
generation." But these are not organic globules, and the author has committed the great perversion
in language or logic of confounding the organic globule of life with the inorganic globule
of a chemist. His theory is more fanciful than that of LAMARCK, from whom it is derived, and
who had, at least, his petit corps gelatineux to begin with--to commence weaving organic tissue
from--but our author's organic globule is not so substantive a conception; and as he does not
pretend to be able to produce even this by physical means, he has not made a single step in
generation.

This we consider the least satisfactory and successful portion of the author's work. It assigns
no intelligible cause for the origin of life--it only begs the question, by the substitution
of one mystery for another. His law of DEVELOPMENT is of the same description,--without sense
or significancy, unsupported by applicable facts, and is not so comprehensible a cause of vital
changes as LAMARCK'S assigned progressive tendencies of animals to master the appliances essential
to their wants.

ANIMAL AFFINITIES, INSTINCT, AND REASON.

The scheme of the Vestiges is uniformly and consistently worked out; all phenomena are resolved
into gravitation and development--the first as the law of inorganic, the latter of organic
matter. By the last, however, no new principle is revealed, only a new phrase devised, by the
amplified application of which the author's entire system may be said to be begged rather than
proved; since development is used in a sense implying an indefinite power of animate and inanimate
creation; so that at last we make no new discovery, only grasp a new nomenclature.

But the author is always interesting, either by the novel display of facts or the ingenious
concatenation of plausibilities. Consistently with his fundamental notion of animal transmutation,
he tries to prove a family likeness or affinity from the humblest to the highest species. In
this way he seeks to explain the marvel with respect to the huge bulk of many of the tertiary
mammalia--the mammoth, mastadon, and megatherium; they were in immediate descent from the cetacea,
or whale and dolphin tribe. CUVIER and NEWTON are only intellectual expansions of a clown;
and this notion is extended to moral obliquities, the wicked man being characterised as one
"whose highest moral feelings are rudimental." (p. 358.) From a like principle the writer concurs
with Dr. PRICHARD, that mankind may have had a common origin; that there exists no diversities
of colour or osseous structure not referable to climatable or other plastic agencies influencing
the development of the different races, commencing with the lowest, or Negro tribe, and ascending
upward through the intermediate aboriginal American, Mongolian, and Malay, to the last and
most perfect stage of the Caucasian type.

Into the verity of these conclusions we are not called upon to enter; they have been long in
controversy, involve a great array of facts and inductive inferences, and we have only referred
to them as corollaries or collaterals of the author's hypothetical fabric.

RELIGIOUS AND MORAL TENDENCIES.

We have no charge of impiety to bring against the Vestiges. Final causes, or to express ourselves
more intelligibly, a purpose in creation, is nowhere impugned. The Deity is not degraded by
impersonification in the form and frailties of mortality, but everywhere the author reverently
bows to that august and unsearchable name, acknowledges the grand and benevolent design--the
admirable adaptation of every created thing to its end and place, and finally concludes in
a strain of grateful and exulting Optimism, that we confess we have not fully arrived at--namely,
that everything "is very good." (p. 387.) From this impression we have only one constructive
drawback to notice in the author's mechanical but fanciful constitution of the universe, by
which a special Providence in the government of the world seems to be dispensed with, and the
Almighty is placed in the sinecure position of the Grand Elector of the Abbe SIEYES, with nothing
to do. But no divine attribute is abscinded--no glory of Omnipotence dimmed--whether it pleases
him to rule by direct interpositions of power, or his own pre-ordained eternal laws.

Still less can we detect in the speculative inquiries of the Vestiges conclusions hostile to
the moral and social interests of the community. Men are formed to be what they are; vice and
crime are the fruits of malorganization, and malorganization is the result of the unfavourable
conditions in which the subject of it has been placed, prior or subsequent to birth. These
are the author's leading metaphysical inculcations. They impose grave duties upon individuals
and upon society, rightly understood and applied, but we cannot discern a hurtful tendency
in them. They are useful knowledge, knowledge that it would be well for parents and rulers
to master, by showing the importance of education, of favourable circumstances, and of good
moral and physical training, for rearing happy, well-ordered, and virtuous members of the community.
Supreme in intelligence, man, we firmly believe, is not less supremely blessed in the means
of felicity, provided his real nature and position in the scheme of creation were understood,
recognised, and carried out. He has his place, his office, and his destiny; he is no enigma
but as an individual; "in the mass," as the author emphatically remarks, "he is a mathematical
problem." His conduct is uniform and consistent; the result of known and ascertainable causes--causes
calculable and predicable in their consequences, as the statistics of crime have incontestibly
established.

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS ON THE VESTIGES.

The heavens are wonderful, and the earth is wonderful, and man, who, by force of intellect,
has sought to comprehend the immensity of one and unravel the formation of the other, is hardly
less wonderful than either. Still the great mystery remains unriddled; our researches have
brought us no nearer the beginning, and the first cause of all continues unapproachable and
undefinable as ever. Instead of explaining physical creation, we begin with it; we take the
existence of matter for granted, and its attributes for granted, and forthwith begin to fabricate
a universe, without first ascertaining whence was matter, or whence the laws by which it is
impressed, and has been governed in its evolutions.

Nature's greatest phenomena are the celestial spaces and the bodies that fill them; our own
planet and its living occupants. Upon each of these, their commencement and subsequent vicissitudes,
the Vestiges of Creation have propounded an hypothesis, but one mystery is only sought to be
explained by another still more mysterious. For the fiat of a Creator chemical affinities and
mechanical laws have been substituted, but aided by these the author has failed to produce
a world such as we find it. Hence we are again driven upon the old tradition, the old sacred
authority, that the world was created out of nothing; and this is as easy to comprehend as
the solution of the Vestiges, that it sprang from that which is certainly next to nothing--a
heated fog or universal fire-mist.

When the author deals with the facts of science he interests and instructs, but when he speculates
he only amuses or perplexes, without advancing knowledge. His terse and luminous description
of the astral firmament deeply impresses with the might and the magnitude of the vast design;
but when he attempts to account for the elimination of suns and worlds, their formation and
arrangement, we are struck by the puerile folly of his conjectural presumptions.

Descending from this august and glittering canopy to our own planet, we are not less astonished
by the exhibition of the extraordinary revolutions it has undergone. Geology is the true historian
of the earth. Conducted by the lights it affords, we see an eternity of ages has rolled before
us; we discover a series of worlds rising through the depths of ocean from the central sphere
of heat, amidst boiling floods and volcanic fires, each new platform of existence, that countless
periods of time had been requisite to form, peopled with its own congenial forms of organic
life, mostly commencing with the simpler, and ascending by almost imperceptible gradations
to the higher and more complex structures of being. We are struck by the correspondence, by
the pari passu development and formation of the earth's crust and organic existences, and we
are apt hastily to conclude that a relation has subsisted between them, that contemporary changes
have been cause and effect, and that the improvement of the earth produced the correlative
improvement in animals and plants.

This forms the author's second questionable hypothesis; it is plausible, but false--repugnant
to fact and correct observation. We have no credible evidence that species have changed, or
are changeable by the utmost efforts of art or favouring conditions; all we can effect is to
improve them within definite limits, but not alter their characteristic types; and we have
certain proof that neither man nor the animal nearly next to him in organization, has changed
either in habits, disposition, form, or osseus structure during the last 3,000 years. Resemblance
is no proof of identity; and hence, though species run into each other by almost inappreciable
shades of difference, it is no proof that they are derivative, or other than isolated and self-dependent
creations. That they are such, and shall continue such, seems a fixed canon of Nature, who,
apparently, has prescribed to each its circle of amendment and range, that like shall beget
like--that nought organic shall exist without ancestral germ--and that the variety of species
which constitutes the beauty and order of nature shall by no chance, contrivance, or mingling
of races, be confounded.

Geological facts are in favour of this conclusion. They attest the appearance of new species,
not their improvement. In each species a gradation of improvement, approximating from a lower
to the next higher organism, is not perceptible; but each seems to have been made perfect at
first, and most suited to the co-existent state of the earth. The earliest reptiles were not
reptiles of inferior structure; nor the earliest fishes, birds, or beasts. They were adapted,
as we now find them, to their precise sphere of existence, without progressive aptitude, preparatory
to a higher and translated condition of being. Geology rather points to the extinction and
degeneracy of species than their improvement; and the fossils of the old red sandstone, and
of the carboniferous formation, attest a loftier and more magnificent creation of both marine
and land products than any now subsisting.

For these and other reasons before adduced, we dismiss the hypothesis of animal transmutation
as unproved and untenable. It pleases and satisfies superficial views, but confronted with
the facts of nature, it vanishes like a baseless vision. Man is sui generis, sole and exclusive
in organization, without pre-existing type or affinity to other species; and his alleged recent
metamorphosis from a monkey, and his first and far more distant one from a snail or a tadpole,
are paradoxes only worthy of idle debating clubs.

Having attempted to unfold the progression of species by his law of development, the author
next essays to explain the commencement of the vital principle itself. But here, too, he must
have a beginning, and his "organic globule" answers a similar purpose, in deducing the mystery
of life, as his nuclei in the "nebular hypothesis." In both the perplexity and real difficulty
is not solved or mastered, but evaded. But we have already remarked on the point, and shall
only observe that when the author can elicit thought from inorganic matter, either by chemistry
or galvanism, we shall think he has made a step in creation. Until then he does not advance,
only deceives himself and readers by verbal subtleties and baseless suppositions.

Apart from its hypotheses, the Vestiges form a valuable and interesting work. It is the most
complete, elaborate, and--with all its faults of detail, logic, and inference--the most scientific
expositor of universal nature yet offered to the world. But its hypotheses are unwarranted,
not inductively derived, and can have no hold on men of science, supported as they mostly are
by fanciful analogies, facts misunderstood or misstated, and illustrations selected without
discrimination or applicability. Theories do sometimes conduce to the discovery of truth, but
are often obstructive; occupy the mind, like theological controversy, without advancing science;
and are viewed with the same aversion by the philosopher that the political abstractions tendered
to the multitude by the demagogue are viewed by the patriotic legislator.

The work, however, will live, and deserves to live. The temple of nature has been looked into,
not profoundly, perhaps, nor always successfully; but in a fearless spirit, and with a highly-accomplished
mind. Had the divine COSMOS been more fully dwelt upon and depicted--had the harmony, beauty,
and beneficence of creation been more fully and exclusively displayed--we should have been
more gratified; but we are thankful, in the main, for what we have received. An impulse has
been given to popular inquiry, and a vast field for discussion opened, from which we can prospectively
discern neither less love for man, nor reverence for God.

Who the author is we have no certain knowledge. It is not, we suspect, Lord KING, nor Lord
THURLOW, nor Lady BYRON; but it may be the author of the Essay on the Formation of Opinions,
and of the Principle of Representation. Mr. BAILEY, of Sheffield, though little known, possesses
the fine reasoning powers, intellectual grasp, independence of research, abstract analysis,
and attic style, that would qualify him to produce the Vestiges of Creation, though we never
heard that he is a great natural philosopher. But, as just hinted, deep science is not evinced
by the Vestiges, only an able, systematic, and tasteful arrangement of its distant and recent
advances.

"EXPLANATIONS:"

A SEQUEL TO THE

"VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION."

(From the ATLAS of December 20, 1845.)

