THE REV. A. L. MAYHEW

Joint Author of 'The Concise Middle English Dictionary'

PREFACE TO THE TWENTIETH EDITION.

In all essential points this edition of The Study of Words is the same book as the last edition.
The aim of the editor has been to alter as little of Archbishop Trench's work as possible.
In the arrangement of the book, in the order of the chapters and paragraphs, in the style,
in the general presentation of the matter, no change has been made. On the other hand, the
work has been thoroughly revised and corrected. A great deal of thought and labour has of late
been bestowed on English philology, and there has been a great advance in the knowledge of
the laws regulating the development of the sounds of English words, and the result has been
that many a derivation once generally accepted has had to be given up as phonetically impossible.
An attempt has been made to purge the book of all erroneous etymologies, and to correct in
the text small matters of detail. There have also been added some footnotes, in which difficult
points are discussed and where reference is given to recent authorities. All editorial additions,
whether in the text or in the notes, are enclosed in square brackets. It is hoped that the
book as it now stands does not contain in its etymological details anything inconsistent with
the latest discoveries of English scholars.

A. L. MAYHEW.

WADHAM COLLEGE, OXFORD: August, 1888.

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION.

These lectures will not, I trust, be found anywhere to have left out of sight seriously, or
for long, the peculiar needs of those for whom they were originally intended, and to whom they
were primarily addressed. I am conscious, indeed, here and there, of a certain departure from
my first intention, having been in part seduced to this by a circumstance which I had not in
the least contemplated when I obtained permission to deliver them, by finding, namely, that
I should have other hearers besides the pupils of the Training-School. Some matter adapted
for those rather than for these I was thus led to introduce--which afterwards I was unwilling,
in preparing for the press, to remove; on the contrary adding to it rather, in the hope of
obtaining thus a somewhat wider circle of readers than I could have hoped, had I more rigidly
restricted myself in the choice of my materials. Yet I should greatly regret to have admitted
so much of this as should deprive these lectures of their fitness for those whose profit in
writing and in publishing I had mainly in view, namely schoolmasters, and those preparing to
be such.

Had I known any book entering with any fulness, and in a popular manner, into the subject-matter
of these pages, and making it its exclusive theme, I might still have delivered these lectures,
but should scarcely have sought for them a wider audience than their first, gladly leaving
the matter in their hands, whose studies in language had been fuller and riper than my own.
But abundant and ready to hand as are the materials for such a book, I did not; while yet it
seems to me that the subject is one to which it is beyond measure desirable that their attention,
who are teaching, or shall have hereafter to teach, others should be directed; so that they
shall learn to regard language as one of the chiefest organs of their own education and that
of others. For I am persuaded that I have used no exaggeration in saying, that for many a young
man 'his first discovery that words are living powers, has been like the dropping of scales
from his eyes, like the acquiring of another sense, or the introduction into a new world,'--while
yet all this may be indefinitely deferred, may, indeed, never find place at all, unless there
is some one at hand to help for him, and to hasten the process; and he who so does, will ever
after be esteemed by him as one of his very foremost benefactors. Whatever may be Horne Tooke's
shortcomings (and they are great), whether in details of etymology, or in the philosophy of
grammar, or in matters more serious still, yet, with all this, what an epoch in many a student's
intellectual life has been his first acquaintance with The Diversions of Purley. And they were
not among the least of the obligations which the young men of our time owed to Coleridge, that
he so often himself weighed words in the balances, and so earnestly pressed upon all with whom
his voice went for anything, the profit which they would find in so doing. Nor, with the certainty
that I am anticipating much in my little volume, can I refrain from quoting some words which
were not present with me during its composition, although I must have been familiar with them
long ago; words which express excellently well why it is that these studies profit so much,
and which will also explain the motives which induced me to add my little contribution to their
furtherance:

'A language will often be wiser, not merely than the vulgar, but even than the wisest of those
who speak it. Being like amber in its efficacy to circulate the electric spirit of truth, it
is also like amber in embalming and preserving the relics of ancient wisdom, although one is
not seldom puzzled to decipher its contents. Sometimes it locks up truths, which were once
well known, but which, in the course of ages, have passed out of sight and been forgotten.
In other cases it holds the germs of truths, of which, though they were never plainly discerned,
the genius of its framers caught a glimpse in a happy moment of divination. A meditative man
cannot refrain from wonder, when he digs down to the deep thought lying at the root of many
a metaphorical term, employed for the designation of spiritual things, even of those with regard
to which professing philosophers have blundered grossly; and often it would seem as though
rays of truth, which were still below the intellectual horizon, had dawned upon the imagination
as it was looking up to heaven. Hence they who feel an inward call to teach and enlighten their
countrymen, should deem it an important part of their duty to draw out the stores of thought
which are already latent in their native language, to purify it from the corruptions which
Time brings upon all things, and from which language has no exemption, and to endeavour to
give distinctness and precision to whatever in it is confused, or obscure, or dimly seen'--Guesses
at Truth, First Series, p. 295.

ITCHENSTOKE: Oct. 9, 1851.

CONTENTS.

LECTURE I. INTRODUCTORY LECTURE

LECTURE II. ON THE POETRY IN WORDS

LECTURE III. ON THE MORALITY IN WORDS

LECTURE IV. ON THE HISTORY IN WORDS

LECTURE V. ON THE RISE OF NEW WORDS

LECTURE VI. ON THE DISTINCTION OF WORDS

LECTURE VII. THE SCHOOLMASTER'S USE OF WORDS

INDEX OF WORDS

ON THE STUDY OF WORDS

INTRODUCTORY LECTURE.

There are few who would not readily acknowledge that mainly in worthy books are preserved and
hoarded the treasures of wisdom and knowledge which the world has accumulated; and that chiefly
by aid of books they are handed down from one generation to another. I shall urge on you in
these lectures something different from this; namely, that not in books only, which all acknowledge,
nor yet in connected oral discourse, but often also in words contemplated singly, there are
boundless stores of moral and historic truth, and no less of passion and imagination, laid
up--that from these, lessons of infinite worth may be derived, if only our attention is roused
to their existence. I shall urge on you how well it will repay you to study the words which
you are in the habit of using or of meeting, be they such as relate to highest spiritual things,
or our common words of the shop and the market, and of all the familiar intercourse of daily
life. It will indeed repay you far better than you can easily believe. I am sure, at least,
that for many a young man his first discovery of the fact that words are living powers, are
the vesture, yea, even the body, which thoughts weave for themselves, has been like the dropping
of scales from his eyes, like the acquiring of another sense, or the introduction into a new
world; he is never able to cease wondering at the moral marvels that surround him on every
side, and ever reveal themselves more and more to his gaze.

We indeed hear it not seldom said that ignorance is the mother of admiration. No falser word
was ever spoken, and hardly a more mischievous one; implying, as it does, that this healthiest
exercise of the mind rests, for the most part, on a deceit and a delusion, and that with larger
knowledge it would cease; while, in truth, for once that ignorance leads us to admire that
which with fuller insight we should perceive to be a common thing, one demanding no such tribute
from us, a hundred, nay, a thousand times, it prevents us from admiring that which is admirable
indeed. And this is so, whether we are moving in the region of nature, which is the region
of God's wonders, or in the region of art, which is the region of man's wonders; and nowhere
truer than in this sphere and region of language, which is about to claim us now. Oftentimes
here we walk up and down in the midst of intellectual and moral marvels with a vacant eye and
a careless mind; even as some traveller passes unmoved over fields of fame, or through cities
of ancient renown--unmoved, because utterly unconscious of the lofty deeds which there have
been wrought, of the great hearts which spent themselves there. We, like him, wanting the knowledge
and insight which would have served to kindle admiration in us, are oftentimes deprived of
this pure and elevating excitement of the mind, and miss no less that manifold instruction
which ever lies about our path, and nowhere more largely than in our daily words, if only we
knew how to put forth our hands and make it our own. 'What riches,' one exclaims, 'lie hidden
in the vulgar tongue of our poorest and most ignorant. What flowers of paradise lie under our
feet, with their beauties and their parts undistinguished and undiscerned, from having been
daily trodden on.'

And this subject upon which we are thus entering ought not to be a dull or uninteresting one
in the handling, or one to which only by an effort you will yield the attention which I shall
claim. If it shall prove so, this I fear must be through the fault of my manner of treating
it; for certainly in itself there is no study which may be made at once more instructive and
entertaining than the study of the use and abuse, the origin and distinction of words, with
an investigation, slight though it may be, of the treasures contained in them; which is exactly
that which I now propose to myself and to you. I remember a very learned scholar, to whom we
owe one of our best Greek lexicons, a book which must have cost him years, speaking in the
preface of his completed work with a just disdain of some, who complained of the irksome drudgery
of such toils as those which had engaged him so long,--toils irksome, forsooth, because they
only had to do with words. He disclaims any part with those who asked pity for themselves,
as so many galley-slaves chained to the oar, or martyrs who had offered themselves for the
good of the literary world. He declares that the task of classing, sorting, grouping, comparing,
tracing the derivation and usage of words, had been to him no drudgery, but a delight and labour
of love. [Footnote: It is well worth the while to read on this same subject the pleasant causerie
of Littre 'Comment j'ai fait mon Dictionnaire.' It is to be found pp. 390-442 of his Glanures.]

And if this may be true in regard of a foreign tongue, how much truer ought it to be in regard
of our own, of our 'mother tongue,' as we affectionately call it. A great writer not very long
departed from us has borne witness at once to the pleasantness and profit of this study. 'In
a language,' he says, 'like ours, where so many words are derived from other languages, there
are few modes of instruction more useful or more amusing than that of accustoming young people
to seek for the etymology or primary meaning of the words they use. There are cases in which
more knowledge of more value may be conveyed by the history of a word than by the history of
a campaign.' So writes Coleridge; and impressing the same truth, Emerson has somewhere characterized
language as 'fossil poetry.' He evidently means that just as in some fossil, curious and beautiful
shapes of vegetable or animal life, the graceful fern or the finely vertebrated lizard, such
as now, it may be, have been extinct for thousands of years, are permanently bound up with
the stone, and rescued from that perishing which would else have been their portion,--so in
words are beautiful thoughts and images, the imagination and the feeling of past ages, of men
long since in their graves, of men whose very names have perished, there are these, which might
so easily have perished too, preserved and made safe for ever. The phrase is a striking one;
the only fault one can find with it is that it is too narrow. Language may be, and indeed is,
this 'fossil poetry'; but it may be affirmed of it with exactly the same truth that it is fossil
ethics, or fossil history. Words quite as often and as effectually embody facts of history,
or convictions of the moral sense, as of the imagination or passion of men; even as, so far
as that moral sense may be perverted, they will bear witness and keep a record of that perversion.
On all these points I shall enter at full in after lectures; but I may give by anticipation
a specimen or two of what I mean, to make from the first my purpose and plan more fully intelligible
to all.

Language then is 'fossil poetry'; in other words, we are not to look for the poetry which a
people may possess only in its poems, or its poetical customs, traditions, and beliefs. Many
a single word also is itself a concentrated poem, having stores of poetical thought and imagery
laid up in it. Examine it, and it will be found to rest on some deep analogy of things natural
and things spiritual; bringing those to illustrate and to give an abiding form and body to
these. The image may have grown trite and ordinary now: perhaps through the help of this very
word may have become so entirely the heritage of all, as to seem little better than a commonplace;
yet not the less he who first discerned the relation, and devised the new word which should
express it, or gave to an old, never before but literally used, this new and figurative sense,
this man was in his degree a poet--a maker, that is, of things which were not before, which
would not have existed but for him, or for some other gifted with equal powers. He who spake
first of a 'dilapidated' fortune, what an image must have risen up before his mind's eye of
some falling house or palace, stone detaching itself from stone, till all had gradually sunk
into desolation and ruin. Or he who to that Greek word which signifies 'that which will endure
to be held up to and judged by the sunlight,' gave first its ethical signification of 'sincere,'
'truthful,' or as we sometimes say, 'transparent,' can we deny to him the poet's feeling and
eye? Many a man had gazed, we are sure, at the jagged and indented mountain ridges of Spain,
before one called them 'sierras' or 'saws,' the name by which now they are known, as Sierra
Morena, Sierra Nevada; but that man coined his imagination into a word which will endure as
long as the everlasting hills which he named.

But it was said just now that words often contain a witness for great moral truths--God having
pressed such a seal of truth upon language, that men are continually uttering deeper things
than they know, asserting mighty principles, it may be asserting them against themselves, in
words that to them may seem nothing more than the current coin of society. Thus to what grand
moral purposes Bishop Butler turns the word 'pastime'; how solemn the testimony which he compels
the world, out of its own use of this word, to render against itself--obliging it to own that
its amusements and pleasures do not really satisfy the mind and fill it with the sense of an
abiding and satisfying joy: [Footnote: Sermon xiv. Upon the Love of God. Curiously enough,
Montaigne has, in his Essays, drawn the same testimony out of the word: 'This ordinary phrase
of Pass-time, and passing away the time, represents the custom of those wise sort of people,
who think they cannot have a better account of their lives, than to let them run out and slide
away, to pass them over and to baulk them, and as much as they can, to take no notice of them
and to shun them, as a thing of troublesome and contemptible quality. But I know it to be another
kind of thing, and find it both valuable and commodious even in its latest decay, wherein I
now enjoy it, and nature has delivered it into our hands in such and so favourable circumstances
that we commonly complain of ourselves, if it be troublesome to us or slide unprofitably away.']
they are only 'pastime'; they serve only, as this word confesses, to pass away the time, to
prevent it from hanging, an intolerable burden, on men's hands: all which they can do at the
best is to prevent men from discovering and attending to their own internal poverty and dissatisfaction
and want. He might have added that there is the same acknowledgment in the word 'diversion'
which means no more than that which diverts or turns us aside from ourselves, and in this way
helps us to forget ourselves for a little. And thus it would appear that, even according to
the world's own confession, all which it proposes is--not to make us happy, but a little to
prevent us from remembering that we are unhappy, to pass away our time, to divert us from ourselves.
While on the other hand we declare that the good which will really fill our souls and satisfy
them to the uttermost, is not in us, but without us and above us, in the words which we use
to set forth any transcending delight. Take three or four of these words--'transport,' 'rapture,'
'ravishment,' 'ecstasy,'--'transport,' that which carries us, as 'rapture,' or 'ravishment,'
that which snatches us out of and above ourselves; and 'ecstasy' is very nearly the same, only
drawn from the Greek. And not less, where a perversion of the moral sense has found place,
words preserve oftentimes a record of this perversion. We have a signal example of this in
the use, or rather misuse, of the words 'religion' and 'religious' during the Middle Ages,
and indeed in many parts of Christendom still. A 'religious' person did not then mean any one
who felt and owned the bonds that bound him to God and to his fellow-men, but one who had taken
peculiar vows upon him, the member of a monastic Order, of a 'religion' as it was called. As
little did a 'religious' house then mean, nor does it now mean in the Church of Rome, a Christian
household, ordered in the fear of God, but a house in which these persons were gathered together
according to the rule of some man. What a light does this one word so used throw on the entire
state of mind and habits of thought in those ages! That then was 'religion,' and alone deserved
the name! And 'religious' was a title which might not be given to parents and children, husbands
and wives, men and women fulfilling faithfully and holily in the world the duties of their
several stations, but only to those who had devised a self-chosen service for themselves. [Footnote:
A reviewer in Fraser's Magazine, Dec. 1851, doubts whether I have not here pushed my assertion
too far. So far from this, it was not merely the 'popular language' which this corruption had
invaded, but a decree of the great Fourth Lateran Council (A.D. 1215), forbidding the further
multiplication of monastic Orders, runs thus: Ne nimia religionum diversitas gravem in Ecclesia
Dei confusionem inducat, firmiter prohibemus, ne quis de cetero novam religionem inveniat,
sed quicunque voluerit ad religionem converti, unam de approbatis assumat.]

But language is fossil history as well. What a record of great social revolutions, revolutions
in nations and in the feelings of nations, the one word 'frank' contains, which is used, as
we all know, to express aught that is generous, straightforward, and free. The Franks, I need
not remind you, were a powerful German tribe, or association of tribes, who gave themselves
[Footnote: This explanation of the name Franks is now generally given up. The name is probably
a derivative from a lost O.H.G. francho, a spear or javelin: compare A.S. franca, Icel. frakka;
similarly the Saxons are supposed to have derived their name from a weapon--seax, a knife;
see Kluge's Dict. (s.v. frank).] this proud name of the 'franks' or the free; and who, at the
breaking up of the Roman Empire, possessed themselves of Gaul, to which they gave their own
name. They were the ruling conquering people, honourably distinguished from the Gauls and degenerate
Romans among whom they established themselves by their independence, their love of freedom,
their scorn of a lie; they had, in short, the virtues which belong to a conquering and dominant
race in the midst of an inferior and conquered one. And thus it came to pass that by degrees
the name 'frank' indicated not merely a national, but involved a moral, distinction as well;
and a 'frank' man was synonymous not merely with a man of the conquering German race, but was
an epithet applied to any man possessed of certain high moral qualities, which for the most
part appertained to, and were found only in, men of that stock; and thus in men's daily discourse,
when they speak of a person as being 'frank,' or when they use the words 'franchise,' 'enfranchisement,'
to express civil liberties and immunities, their language here is the outgrowth, the record,
and the result of great historic changes, bears testimony to facts of history, whereof it may
well happen that the speakers have never heard. [Footnote: 'Frank,' though thus originally
a German word, only came back to Germany from France in the seventeenth century. With us it
is found in the sixteenth; but scarcely earlier.] The word 'slave' has undergone a process
entirely analogous, although in an opposite direction. 'The martial superiority of the Teutonic
races enabled them to keep their slave markets supplied with captives taken from the Sclavonic
tribes. Hence, in all the languages of Western Europe, the once glorious name of Slave has
come to express the most degraded condition of men. What centuries of violence and warfare
does the history of this word disclose.' [Footnote: Gibbon, Decline and Fall, c. 55. [It is
very doubtful whether the idea of 'glory' was implied originally in the national name of Slav.
It is generally held now that the Slavs gave themselves the name as being 'the intelligible,'
or 'the intelligibly speaking' people; as in the case of many other races, they regarded their
strange-speaking neighbours as 'barbarian,' that is 'stammering,' or even as 'dumb.' So the
Russians call their neighbours the Germans njemets, connected with njemo, indistinct. The old
name Slovene, Slavonians, is probably a derivative from the substantive which appears in Church
Slavonic in the form slovo, a word; see Thomsen's Russia and Scandinavia, p. 8. Slovo is closely
connected with the old Slavonic word for 'fame'-- slava, hence, no doubt, the explanation of
Slave favoured by Gibbon.]]

Having given by anticipation this handful of examples in illustration of what in these lectures
I propose, I will, before proceeding further, make a few observations on a subject, which,
if we would go at all to the root of the matter, we can scarcely leave altogether untouched,--I
mean the origin of language, in which however we will not entangle ourselves deeper than we
need. There are, or rather there have been, two theories about this. One, and that which rather
has been than now is, for few maintain it still, would put language on the same level with
the various arts and inventions with which man has gradually adorned and enriched his life.
It would make him by degrees to have invented it, just as he might have invented any of these,
for himself; and from rude imperfect beginnings, the inarticulate cries by which he expressed
his natural wants, the sounds by which he sought to imitate the impression of natural objects
upon him, little by little to have arrived at that wondrous organ of thought and feeling, which
his language is often to him now.

It might, I think, be sufficient to object to this explanation, that language would then be
an accident of human nature; and, this being the case, that we certainly should somewhere encounter
tribes sunken so low as not to possess it; even as there is almost no human art or invention
so obvious, and as it seems to us so indispensable, but there are those who have fallen below
its knowledge and its exercise. But with language it is not so. There have never yet been found
human beings, not the most degraded horde of South African bushmen, or Papuan cannibals, who
did not employ this means of intercourse with one another. But the more decisive objection
to this view of the matter is, that it hangs together with, and is indeed an essential part
of, that theory of society, which is contradicted alike by every page of Genesis, and every
notice of our actual experience--the 'urang-utang theory,' as it has been so happily termed--that,
I mean, according to which the primitive condition of man was the savage one, and the savage
himself the seed out of which in due time the civilized man was unfolded; whereas, in fact,
so far from being this living seed, he might more justly be considered as a dead withered leaf,
torn violently away from the great trunk of humanity, and with no more power to produce anything
nobler than himself out of himself, than that dead withered leaf to unfold itself into the
oak of the forest. So far from being the child with the latent capabilities of manhood, he
is himself rather the man prematurely aged, and decrepit, and outworn.

