 His Imperial Majesty's disposition to
regard criticism as hostility stifles the public thought of Germany. He interferes in university
affairs and in literary and artistic matters with a quite remarkable confidence and incalculable
consequences. The inertia of a century carries him and his Germany onward from success to success,
but for all that one may doubt whether the extraordinary intellectuality that distinguished
the German atmosphere in the early years of the century, and in which such men as Blumenthal
and Moltke grew to greatness, in which Germany grew to greatness, is not steadily fading in
the heat and blaze of the Imperial sunshine. Discipline and education have carried Germany
far; they are essential things, but an equally essential need for the coming time is a free
play for men of initiative and imagination. Is Germany to her utmost possibility making capable
men? That, after all, is the vital question, and not whether her policy is wise or foolish,
or her commercial development inflated or sound. Or is Germany doing no more than cash the
promises of those earlier days?

After all, I do not see that she is in a greatly stronger position than was France in the early
sixties, and, indeed, in many respects her present predominance is curiously analogous to that
of the French Empire in those years. Death at any time may end the career of the present ruler
of Germany--there is no certain insurance of one single life. This withdrawal would leave Germany
organized entirely with reference to a Court, and there is no trustworthy guarantee that the
succeeding Royal Personality may not be something infinitely more vain and aggressive, or something
weakly self-indulgent or unpatriotic and morally indifferent. Much has been done in the past
of Germany, the infinitely less exacting past, by means of the tutor, the Chamberlain, the
Chancellor, the wide-seeing power beyond the throne, who very unselfishly intrigues his monarch
in the way that he should go. But that sort of thing is remarkably like writing a letter by
means of a pen held in lazy tongs instead of the hand. A very easily imagined series of accidents
may place the destinies of Germany in such lazy tongs again. When that occasion comes, will
the new class of capable men on which we have convinced ourselves in these anticipations the
future depends--will it be ready for its enlarged responsibilities, or will the flower of its
possible members be in prison for lèse majesté, or naturalized Englishmen or naturalized Americans
or troublesome privates under officers of indisputably aristocratic birth, or well-broken labourers,
won "back to the land," under the auspices of an Agrarian League?

In another way the intensely monarchical and aristocratic organization of the German Empire
will stand in the way of the political synthesis of greater Germany. Indispensable factors
in that synthesis will be Holland and Switzerland--little, advantageously situated peoples,
saturated with ideas of personal freedom. One can imagine a German Swiss, at any rate, merging
himself in a great Pan-Germanic republican state, but to bow the knee to the luridly decorated
God of His Imperial Majesty's Fathers will be an altogether more difficult exploit for a self-respecting
man....

Moreover, before Germany can unify to the East she must fight the Russian, and to unify to
the West she must fight the French and perhaps the English, and she may have to fight a combination
of these powers. I think the military strength of France is enormously underrated. Upon this
matter M. Bloch should be read. Indisputably the French were beaten in 1870, indisputably they
have fallen behind in their long struggle to maintain themselves equal with the English on
the sea, but neither of these things efface the future of the French. The disasters of 1870
were probably of the utmost benefit to the altogether too sanguine French imagination. They
cleared the French mind of the delusion that personal Imperialism is the way to do the desirable
thing, a delusion many Germans (and, it would seem, a few queer Englishmen and still queerer
Americans) entertain. The French have done much to demonstrate the possibility of a stable
military republic. They have disposed of crown and court, and held themselves in order for
thirty good years; they have dissociated their national life from any form of religious profession;
they have contrived a freedom of thought and writing that, in spite of much conceit to the
contrary, is quite impossible among the English-speaking peoples. I find no reason to doubt
the implication of M. Bloch that on land to-day the French are relatively far stronger than
they were in 1870, that the evolution of military expedients has been all in favour of the
French character and intelligence, and that even a single-handed war between France and Germany
to-day might have a very different issue from that former struggle. In such a conflict it will
be Germany, and not France, that will have pawned her strength to the English-speaking peoples
on the high seas. And France will not fight alone. She will fight for Switzerland or Luxembourg,
or the mouth of the Rhine. She will fight with the gravity of remembered humiliations, with
the whole awakened Slav-race at the back of her antagonist, and very probably with the support
of the English-speaking peoples.

It must be pointed out how strong seems the tendency of the German Empire to repeat the history
of Holland upon a larger scale. While the Dutch poured out all their strength upon the seas,
in a conflict with the English that at the utmost could give them only trade, they let the
possibilities of a great Low German synthesis pass utterly out of being. (In those days Low
Germany stretched to Arras and Douay.) They positively dragged the English into the number
of their enemies. And to-day the Germans invade the sea with a threat and intention that will
certainly create a countervailing American navy, fundamentally modify the policy of Great Britain,
such as it is, and very possibly go far to effect the synthesis of the English-speaking peoples.

So involved, I do not see that the existing Germanic synthesis is likely to prevail in the
close economic unity, the urban region that will arise in Western Europe. I imagine that the
German Empire--that is, the organized expression of German aggression to-day--will be either
shattered or weakened to the pitch of great compromises by a series of wars by land and sea;
it will be forced to develop the autonomy of its rational middle class in the struggles that
will render these compromises possible, and it will be finally not Imperial German ideas, but
central European ideas possibly more akin to Swiss conceptions, a civilized republicanism finding
its clearest expression in the French language, that will be established upon a bilingual basis
throughout Western Europe, and increasingly predominant over the whole European mainland and
the Mediterranean basin, as the twentieth century closes. The splendid dream of a Federal Europe,
which opened the nineteenth century for France, may perhaps, after all, come to something like
realization at the opening of the twenty-first. But just how long these things take, just how
easily or violently they are brought about, depends, after all, entirely upon the rise in general
intelligence in Europe. An ignorant, a merely trained or a merely cultured people, will not
understand these coalescences, will fondle old animosities and stage hatreds, and for such
a people there must needs be disaster, forcible conformities and war. Europe will have her
Irelands as well as her Scotlands, her Irelands of unforgettable wrongs, kicking, squalling,
bawling most desolatingly, for nothing that any one can understand. There will be great scope
for the shareholding dilettanti, great opportunities for literary quacks, in "national" movements,
language leagues, picturesque plotting, and the invention of such "national" costumes as the
world has never seen. The cry of the little nations will go up to heaven, asserting the inalienable
right of all little nations to sit down firmly in the middle of the high-road, in the midst
of the thickening traffic, and with all their dear little toys about them, play and play--just
as they used to play before the road had come....

And while the great states of the continent of Europe are hammering down their obstructions
of language and national tradition or raising the educational level above them until a working
unity is possible, and while the reconstruction of Eastern Asia--whether that be under Russian,
Japanese, English, or native Chinese direction--struggles towards attainment, will there also
be a great synthesis of the English-speaking peoples going on? I am inclined to believe that
there will be such a synthesis, and that the head and centre of the new unity will be the great
urban region that is developing between Chicago and the Atlantic, and which will lie mainly,
but not entirely, south of the St. Lawrence. Inevitably, I think, that region must become the
intellectual, political, and industrial centre of any permanent unification of the English-speaking
states. There will, I believe, develop about that centre a great federation of white English-speaking
peoples, a federation having America north of Mexico as its central mass (a federation that
may conceivably include Scandinavia) and its federal government will sustain a common fleet,
and protect or dominate or actually administer most or all of the non-white states of the present
British Empire, and in addition much of the South and Middle Pacific, the East and West Indies,
the rest of America, and the larger part of black Africa. Quite apart from the dominated races,
such an English-speaking state should have by the century-end a practically homogeneous citizenship
of at least a hundred million sound-bodied and educated and capable men. It should be the first
of the three powers of the world, and it should face the organizing syntheses of Europe and
Eastern Asia with an intelligent sympathy. By the year 2000 all its common citizens should
certainly be in touch with the thought of Continental Europe through the medium of French;
its English language should be already rooting firmly through all the world beyond its confines,
and its statesmanship should be preparing openly and surely, and discussing calmly with the
public mind of the European, and probably of the Yellow state, the possible coalescences and
conventions, the obliteration of custom-houses, the homologization of laws and coinage and
measures, and the mitigation of monopolies and special claims, by which the final peace of
the world may be assured for ever. Such a synthesis, at any rate, of the peoples now using
the English tongue, I regard not only as a possible, but as a probable, thing. The positive
obstacles to its achievement, great though they are, are yet trivial in comparison with the
obstructions to that lesser European synthesis we have ventured to forecast. The greater obstacle
is negative, it lies in the want of stimulus, in the lax prosperity of most of the constituent
states of such a union. But such a stimulus, the renascence of Eastern Asia, or a great German
fleet upon the ocean, may presently supply.

Now, all these three great coalescences, this shrivelling up and vanishing of boundary lines,
will be the outward and visible accompaniment of that inward and social reorganization which
it is the main object of these Anticipations to display. I have sought to show that in peace
and war alike a process has been and is at work, a process with all the inevitableness and
all the patience of a natural force, whereby the great swollen, shapeless, hypertrophied social
mass of to-day must give birth at last to a naturally and informally organized, educated class,
an unprecedented sort of people, a New Republic dominating the world. It will be none of our
ostensible governments that will effect this great clearing up; it will be the mass of power
and intelligence altogether outside the official state systems of to-day that will make this
great clearance, a new social Hercules that will strangle the serpents of war and national
animosity in his cradle.

Now, the more one descends from the open uplands of wide generalization to the parallel jungle
of particulars, the more dangerous does the road of prophesying become, yet nevertheless there
may be some possibility of speculating how, in the case of the English-speaking synthesis at
least, this effective New Republic may begin visibly to shape itself out and appear. It will
appear first, I believe, as a conscious organization of intelligent and quite possibly in some
cases wealthy men, as a movement having distinct social and political aims, confessedly ignoring
most of the existing apparatus of political control, or using it only as an incidental implement
in the attainment of these aims. It will be very loosely organized in its earlier stages, a
mere movement of a number of people in a certain direction, who will presently discover with
a sort of surprise the common object towards which they are all moving.

Already there are some interesting aspects of public activity that, diverse though their aims
may seem, do nevertheless serve to show the possible line of development of this New Republic
in the coming time. For example, as a sort of preliminary sigh before the stirring of a larger
movement, there are various Anglo-American movements and leagues to be noted. Associations
for entertaining travelling samples of the American leisure class in guaranteed English country
houses, for bringing them into momentary physical contact with real titled persons at lunches
and dinners, and for having them collectively lectured by respectable English authors and divines,
are no doubt trivial things enough; but a snob sometimes shows how the wind blows better than
a serious man. The Empire may catch the American as the soldier caught the Tartar. There is
something very much more spacious than such things as this, latent in both the British and
the American mind, and observable, for instance, in the altered tone of the Presses of both
countries since the Venezuela Message and the Spanish American War. Certain projects of a much
ampler sort have already been put forward. An interesting proposal of an interchangeable citizenship,
so that with a change of domicile an Englishman should have the chance of becoming a citizen
of the United States, and an American a British citizen or a voter in an autonomous British
colony, for example, has been made. Such schemes will, no doubt, become frequent, and will
afford much scope for discussion in both countries during the next decade or so.[47] The American
constitution and the British crown and constitution have to be modified or shelved at some
stage in this synthesis, and for certain types of intelligence there could be no more attractive
problem. Certain curious changes in the colonial point of view will occur as these discussions
open out. The United States of America are rapidly taking, or have already taken, the ascendency
in the iron and steel and electrical industries out of the hands of the British; they are developing
a far ampler and more thorough system of higher scientific education than the British, and
the spirit of efficiency percolating from their more efficient businesses is probably higher
in their public services. These things render the transfer of the present mercantile and naval
ascendency of Great Britain to the United States during the next two or three decades a very
probable thing, and when this is accomplished the problem how far colonial loyalty is the fruit
of Royal Visits and sporadic knighthoods, and how far it has relation to the existence of a
predominant fleet, will be near its solution. An interesting point about such discussions as
this, in which indeed in all probability the nascent consciousness of the New Republic will
emerge, will be the solution this larger synthesis will offer to certain miserable difficulties
of the present time. Government by the elect of the first families of Great Britain has in
the last hundred years made Ireland and South Africa two open sores of irreconcilable wrong.
These two English-speaking communities will never rest and never emerge from wretchedness under
the vacillating vote-catching incapacity of British Imperialism, and it is impossible that
the British power, having embittered them, should ever dare to set them free. But within such
an ampler synthesis as the New Republic will seek, these states could emerge to an equal fellowship
that would take all the bitterness from their unforgettable past.

Another type of public activity which foreshadows an aspect under which the New Republic will
emerge is to be found in the unofficial organizations that have come into existence in Great
Britain to watch and criticize various public departments. There is, for example, the Navy
League, a body of intelligent and active persons with a distinctly expert qualification which
has intervened very effectively in naval control during the last few years. There is also at
present a vast amount of disorganized but quite intelligent discontent with the tawdry futilities
of army reform that occupy the War Office. It becomes apparent that there is no hope of a fully
efficient and well-equipped official army under parliamentary government, and with that realization
there will naturally appear a disposition to seek some way to military efficiency, as far as
is legally possible, outside War Office control. Already recruiting is falling off, it will
probably fall off more and more as the patriotic emotions evoked by the Boer War fade away,
and no trivial addition to pay or privilege will restore it. Elementary education has at last
raised the intelligence of the British lower classes to a point when the prospect of fighting
in distant lands under unsuitably educated British officers of means and gentility with a defective
War Office equipment and inferior weapons has lost much of its romantic glamour. But an unofficial
body that set itself to the establishment of a school of military science, to the sane organization
and criticism of military experiments in tactics and equipment, and to the raising for experimental
purposes of volunteer companies and battalions, would find no lack of men.... What an unofficial
syndicate of capable persons of the new sort may do in these matters has been shown in the
case of the Turbinia, the germ of an absolute revolution in naval construction.

Such attempts at unofficial soldiering would be entirely in the spirit in which I believe the
New Republic will emerge, but it is in another line of activity that the growing new consciousness
will presently be much more distinctly apparent. It is increasingly evident that to organize
and control public education is beyond the power of a democratic government. The meanly equipped
and pretentiously conducted private schools of Great Britain, staffed with ignorant and incapable
young men, exist, on the other hand, to witness that public education is no matter to be left
to merely commercial enterprise working upon parental ignorance and social prejudice. The necessary
condition to the effective development of the New Republic is a universally accessible, spacious,
and varied educational system working in an atmosphere of efficient criticism and general intellectual
activity. Schools alone are of no avail, universities are merely dens of the higher cramming,
unless the schoolmasters and schoolmistresses and lecturers are in touch with and under the
light of an abundant, contemporary, and fully adult intellectuality. At present, in Great Britain
at least, the headmasters entrusted with the education of the bulk of the influential men of
the next decades are conspicuously second-rate men, forced and etiolated creatures, scholarship
boys manured with annotated editions, and brought up under and protected from all current illumination
by the kale-pot of the Thirty-nine Articles. Many of them are less capable teachers and even
less intelligent men than many Board School teachers. There is, however, urgent need of an
absolutely new type of school--a school that shall be, at least, so skilfully conducted as
to supply the necessary training in mathematics, dialectics, languages, and drawing, and the
necessary knowledge of science, without either consuming all the leisure of the boy or destroying
his individuality, as it is destroyed by the ignorant and pretentious blunderers of to-day;
and there is an equally manifest need of a new type of University, something other than a happy
fastness for those precociously brilliant creatures--creatures whose brilliance is too often
the hectic indication of a constitutional unsoundness of mind--who can "get in" before the
portcullis of the nineteenth birthday falls. These new educational elements may either grow
slowly through the steady and painful pressure of remorseless facts, or, as the effort to evoke
the New Republic becomes more conscious and deliberate, they may be rapidly brought into being
by the conscious endeavours of capable men. Assuredly they will never be developed by the wisdom
of the governments of the grey. It may be pointed out that in an individual and disorganized
way a growing sense of such needs is already displayed. Such great business managers as Mr.
Andrew Carnegie, for example, and many other of the wealthy efficients of the United States
of America, are displaying a strong disinclination to found families of functionless shareholders,
and a strong disposition to contribute, by means of colleges, libraries, and splendid foundations,
to the future of the whole English-speaking world. Of course, Mr. Carnegie is not an educational
specialist, and his good intentions will be largely exploited by the energetic mediocrities
who control our educational affairs. But it is the intention that concerns us now, and not
the precise method or effect. Indisputably these rich Americans are at a fundamentally important
work in these endowments, and as indisputably many of their successors--I do not mean the heirs
to their private wealth, but the men of the same type who will play their rôle in the coming
years--will carry on this spacious work with a wider prospect and a clearer common understanding.

The establishment of modern and efficient schools is alone not sufficient for the intellectual
needs of the coming time. The school and university are merely the preparation for the life
of mental activity in which the citizen of the coming state will live. The three years of university
and a lifetime of garrulous stagnation which constitutes the mind's history of many a public
schoolmaster, for example, and most of the clergy to-day, will be impossible under the new
needs. The old-fashioned university, secure in its omniscience, merely taught; the university
of the coming time will, as its larger function, criticize and learn. It will be organized
for research--for the criticism, that is, of thought and nature. And a subtler and a greater
task before those who will presently swear allegiance to the New Republic is to aid and stimulate
that process of sound adult mental activity which is the cardinal element in human life. After
all, in spite of the pretentious impostors who trade upon the claim, literature, contemporary
literature, is the breath of civilized life, and those who sincerely think and write the salt
of the social body. To mumble over the past, to live on the classics, however splendid, is
senility. The New Republic, therefore, will sustain its authors. In the past the author lived
within the limits of his patron's susceptibility, and led the world, so far as he did lead
it, from that cage. In the present he lives within the limits of a particularly distressful
and ill-managed market. He must please and interest the public before he may reason with it,
and even to reach the public ear involves other assiduities than writing. To write one's best
is surely sufficient work for a man, but unless the author is prepared to add to his literary
toil the correspondence and alert activity of a business man, he may find that no measure of
acceptance will save him from a mysterious poverty. Publishing has become a trade, differing
only from the trade in pork or butter in the tradesman's careless book-keeping and his professed
indifference to the quality of his goods. But unless the whole mass of argument in these Anticipations
is false, publishing is as much, or even more, of a public concern than education, and as little
to be properly discharged by private men working for profit. On the other hand, it is not to
be undertaken by a government of the grey, for a confusion cannot undertake to clarify itself;
it is an activity in which the New Republic will necessarily engage.

The men of the New Republic will be intelligently critical men, and they will have the courage
of their critical conclusions. For the sake of the English tongue, for the sake of the English
peoples, they will set themselves to put temptingly within the reach of all readers of the
tongue, and all possible readers of the tongue, an abundance of living literature. They will
endeavour to shape great publishing trusts and associations that will have the same relation
to the publishing office of to-day that a medical association has to a patent-medicine dealer.
They will not only publish, but sell; their efficient book-shops, their efficient system of
book-distribution will replace the present haphazard dealings of quite illiterate persons under
whose shadows people in the provinces live.[48] If one of these publishing groups decides that
a book, new or old, is of value to the public mind, I conceive the copyright will be secured
and the book produced all over the world in every variety of form and price that seems necessary
to its exhaustive sale. Moreover, these publishing associations will sustain spaciously conceived
organs of opinion and criticism, which will begin by being patiently and persistently good,
and so develop into power. And the more distinctly the New Republic emerges, the less danger
there will be of these associations being allowed to outlive their service in a state of ossified
authority. New groups of men and new phases of thought will organize their publishing associations
as children learn to talk.[49]

And while the New Republic is thus developing its idea of itself and organizing its mind, it
will also be growing out of the confused and intricate businesses and undertakings and public
services of the present time, into a recognizable material body. The synthetic process that
is going on in the case of many of the larger of the businesses of the world, that formation
of Trusts that bulks so large in American discussion, is of the utmost significance in this
connection. Conceivably the first impulse to form Trusts came from a mere desire to control
competition and economize working expenses, but even in its very first stages this process
of coalescence has passed out of the region of commercial operations into that of public affairs.
The Trust develops into the organization under men far more capable than any sort of public
officials, of entire industries, of entire departments of public life, quite outside the ostensible
democratic government system altogether. The whole apparatus of communications, which we have
seen to be of such primary importance in the making of the future, promises to pass, in the
case of the United States at least, out of the region of scramble into the domain of deliberate
control. Even to-day the Trusts are taking over quite consciously the most vital national matters.
The American iron and steel industries have been drawn together and developed in a manner that
is a necessary preliminary to the capture of the empire of the seas. That end is declaredly
within the vista of these operations, within their initial design. These things are not the
work of dividend-hunting imbeciles, but of men who regard wealth as a convention, as a means
to spacious material ends. There is an animated little paper published in Los Angeles in the
interests of Mr. Wilshire, which bears upon its forefront the maxim, "Let the Nation own the
Trusts." Well, under their mantle of property, the Trusts grow continually more elaborate and
efficient machines of production and public service, while the formal nation chooses its bosses
and buttons and reads its illustrated press. I must confess I do not see the negro and the
poor Irishman and all the emigrant sweepings of Europe, which constitute the bulk of the American
Abyss, uniting to form that great Socialist party of which Mr. Wilshire dreams, and with a
little demonstrating and balloting taking over the foundry and the electrical works, the engine
shed and the signal box, from the capable men in charge. But that a confluent system of Trust-owned
business organisms, and of Universities and re-organized military and naval services may presently
discover an essential unity of purpose, presently begin thinking a literature, and behaving
like a State, is a much more possible thing....

In its more developed phases I seem to see the New Republic as (if I may use an expressive
bull) a sort of outspoken Secret Society, with which even the prominent men of the ostensible
state may be openly affiliated. A vast number of men admit the need but hesitate at the means
of revolution, and in this conception of a slowly growing new social order organized with open
deliberation within the substance of the old, there are no doubt elements of technical treason,
but an enormous gain in the thoroughness, efficiency, and stability of the possible change.

So it is, or at least in some such ways, that I conceive the growing sense of itself which
the new class of modern efficients will develop, will become manifest in movements and concerns
that are now heterogeneous and distinct, but will presently drift into co-operation and coalescence.
This idea of a synthetic reconstruction within the bodies of the English-speaking States may
very possibly clothe itself in quite other formulæ than my phrase of the New Republic; but
the need is with us, the social elements are developing among us, the appliances are arranging
themselves for the hands that will use them, and I cannot but believe that the idea of a spacious
common action will presently come. In a few years I believe many men who are now rather aimless--men
who have disconsolately watched the collapse of the old Liberalism--will be clearly telling
themselves and one another of their adhesion to this new ideal. They will be working in schools
and newspaper offices, in foundries and factories, in colleges and laboratories, in county
councils and on school boards--even, it may be, in pulpits--for the time when the coming of
the New Republic will be ripe. It may be dawning even in the schools of law, because presently
there will be a new and scientific handling of jurisprudence. The highly educated and efficient
officers' mess will rise mechanically and drink to the Monarch, and sit down to go on discussing
the New Republic's growth. I do not see, indeed, why an intelligent monarch himself, in these
days, should not waive any silliness about Divine Right, and all the ill-bred pretensions that
sit so heavily on a gentlemanly King, and come into the movement with these others. When the
growing conception touches, as in America it has already touched, the legacy-leaving class,
there will be fewer new Asylums perhaps, but more university chairs....

So it is I conceive the elements of the New Republic taking shape and running together through
the social mass, picking themselves out more and more clearly, from the shareholder, the parasitic
speculator and the wretched multitudes of the Abyss. The New Republicans will constitute an
informal and open freemasonry. In all sorts of ways they will be influencing and controlling
the apparatus of the ostensible governments, they will be pruning irresponsible property, checking
speculators and controlling the abyssward drift, but at that, at an indirect control, at any
sort of fiction, the New Republic, from the very nature of its cardinal ideas, will not rest.
The clearest and simplest statement, the clearest and simplest method, is inevitably associated
with the conceptions of that science upon which the New Republic will arise. There will be
a time, in peace it may be, or under the stresses of warfare, when the New Republic will find
itself ready to arrive, when the theory will have been worked out and the details will be generally
accepted, and the new order will be ripe to begin. And then, indeed, it will begin. What life
or strength will be left in the old order to prevent this new order beginning?

FOOTNOTES:

[47] I foresee great scope for the ingenious persons who write so abundantly to the London
evening papers upon etymological points, issues in heraldry, and the correct Union Jack, in
the very pleasing topic of a possible Anglo-American flag (for use at first only on unofficial
occasions).

[48] In a large town like Folkestone, for example, it is practically impossible to buy any
book but a "boomed" novel unless one has ascertained the names of the author, the book, the
edition, and the publisher. There is no index in existence kept up to date that supplies these
particulars. If, for example, one wants--as I want (1) to read all that I have not read of
the work of Mr. Frank Stockton, (2) to read a book of essays by Professor Ray Lankaster the
title of which I have forgotten, and (3) to buy the most convenient edition of the works of
Swift, one has to continue wanting until the British Museum Library chances to get in one's
way. The book-selling trade supplies no information at all on these points.

