 He was a good, steady boy, and never
stopped to play when we were with him, and always shut himself in with us at home and did his
best to take care of us until La Mamma came back. God forgive me! but I used to think La Mamma
very hard in those days. She would never let us go the length of a yard alone; and once when
she caught me running out on the stairs to play hide-and-seek with some girls and boys who
lived on the floor below us, she gave me such a slap that my ears rang again. Well, to tell
truth, we had so much playing in the convent garden, and such a long walk home in the evening,
that we were generally rather tired and glad to get quickly to bed as mamma bade us. She, poverina!
always sat up, patching and darning, long after we were in bed, so that we might go decently
to school.

I remember well the first real dolls we ever had. It was at the Feast of the Assumption, and
there was a fair outside the Roman gate. Marc Antonio was to be apprenticed the next day to
a very decent vetturino, and he had begged La Mamma to treat us all to some fried dumplings.
We were all day at the fair, though of course we bought nothing; but it was a great pleasure
to us to walk about and look at the booths full of gay things. We were nearly ready to come
home, when Teresina spied some dolls and began to beg for one. She was such a sweet, good,
gentle child that La Mamma could not bear to refuse her, especially as she scarcely ever asked
for anything. And she seemed to have a passion for that doll, so pretty it was, all in pink
and spangles. At last, as she begged so hard, La Mamma gave her ten centimes, and told her
that if she could get it for that she might have it; and Teresina bargained so well that she
got it for eight centimes; and then nothing would satisfy her but that we all should have dolls.
It was in vain that La Mamma said no; Teresina would have her way. And so at last we all had
dolls, and La Mamma, poor soul! spent thirty-six centimes! It seemed a mortal sin to her; and
she has told me many a time how she lay awake that night and cried, and prayed to God and the
saints to forgive her for that wicked extravagance. And yet she could not but feel glad to
see how happy we all were with our dolls. And she was glad afterward for another reason, which
I will explain presently. Little Teresina never went out again after the Feast of the Assumption.
She was the first to fall ill, but before ten days were over we were all (all the girls, I
mean,--Marc Antonio was not at home) struck down with smallpox. Teresina suffered most. I remember
it well, how strange it seemed to me to hear her calling constantly for water and other things,--strange,
because she was always the one who waited on the others, and never before thought of herself.
La Mamma did everything for her that could be done, but she grew daily worse. Once mamma brought
her doll and put it in her hands. I can see now--my bed was opposite to hers--how mamma watched
Teresina, and how Teresina looked at the doll. In my own heart I thought, "Surely she will
get better, now that she has her pretty doll." It seemed to me that she must do so. But in
a moment she heaved a deep sigh, and said, "Too tired! too tired!" And then she threw the doll
away from her and closed her eyes. La povera Mamma picked up the doll and put it away in a
drawer, and then she sat still and looked at Teresina, with the tears rolling down her face.
Whenever I woke up in the night it was always the same, mamma fanning Teresina or putting bits
of ice in her mouth, and never moving her eyes from her, and Teresina no longer restless, but
quite still,--so still that I had never seen anything like it. Quite early the next day the
archbishop came to confirm her, and while I was looking at the grand robes he wore, and at
the priests who came with him, and watching the lighted tapers blow about in the wind, for
the window was open and there was a strong draught, suddenly I felt a pain in my head which
was worse than anything I had felt before,--a dreadful pain, which made me feel giddy and confused.
I felt myself sinking, and I suppose I must have cried out, for I remember that some one lifted
me and put a wet cloth on my head. The last thing I saw was Teresina's pale, quiet face, with
the white and gold confirmation ribbon bound about her brows. I never saw her again. When I
came to myself, days afterward, the corner where her bed used to stand was empty, and I knew,
without asking, that she was in Paradise.

Flavia and Fausta and I got well over it, but much disfigured, as you see; and yet God is good,
and has sent me as kind and loving a husband as if I had been the most beautiful person in
the world.

Well, the time went on, just as before, until Flavia was old enough to be apprenticed to Madama
Castagna, the grand dressmaker. She had always been a good, steady, hard-working girl, and,
thanks to the good Doratei Sisters, she sewed so beautifully that very soon Madama allowed
her twenty centimes a day. She had to work from eight till eight; but of course she could not
expect more than twenty centimes while she was learning.

Fausta was not so fortunate. She was a good girl, and the cleverest and quickest of us all,--yes,
indeed, cleverer than I am, although the signora does think so well of me,--but she changed
too often. First, she wanted to learn how to bind shoes (I forgot to say that they taught that
in the convent), and so, while the rest of us were learning to sew and knit, she was binding
shoes. Then, suddenly, she thought she would like to learn to weave, and she went to her godmother,
the Contessa Minia, and told her so. The contessa was good and generous, and she gave her a
loom, and Sister Annunziata taught her to weave. But just at the time that Fausta ought to
have been apprenticed, the silk-trade, which, as I said before, had been going down for several
years, failed altogether, and Fausta had to sell her loom for what it would bring. Then she
thought that she would like to learn lace-mending: so the contessa got her a lace-cushion,
and apprenticed her to a lace-mender for four years. Just as her time was out, poor Fausta
had a bad fall, broke her right arm and injured her leg, so that for many months she was confined
to her bed, and was unable to walk for more than a year. Then, as if the poor girl were destined
to trouble, she must needs fall in love, and with a bad, good-for-nothing fellow. La Mamma
would not consent, and we all begged and prayed her not to have him, but Fausta was obstinate,
and married him. Poverina! she has had one trouble after another, and will have to the end.

As soon as I had passed my fourteenth birthday I was apprenticed to Madama. Flavia was one
of her best workwomen then, as she has been ever since. After the first six months I received
twenty centimes a day, and at the end of the first year thirty centimes. We went away from
home every morning at seven o'clock. La Mamma gave us a good breakfast of black bread and coffee
before we set out, and black bread and onions or apples for our dinner. Sometimes, instead
of onions or apples, she would give us ten or fifteen centimes; and that we liked better, because
then we could make a bank. Making a bank we called it when we put all our money together. Madama
had then twenty-five apprentices, and at dinner-time we used to put all our money together
and send out and buy something. One would buy anchovies, another ham, another olives, another
cheese, and so on. There was one apprentice who always did the marketing for us. Then we used
to clear the work-table and set out our food, and dine merrily enough. I was an apprentice
at Madama's for five years, and then began to work for myself. If Madama had been willing to
pay me a franc a day and give me my dinner besides, I dare say that I might have been there
now; but she would not, and so I plucked up my courage and tried my hand alone. For some time
before I left her I had been working so well, at cutting out and fitting, finishing, and so
on, that she used to give me all the finest and most difficult work to do; but still she never
did and never would pay me more than eighty centimes [sixteen cents] a day. None of us got
more than that. What we always liked to do was to carry the dresses home, because then the
ladies usually gave us something. And at Christmas, when we went to wish our patrons all happiness,
we got very nice presents. One Christmas we received thirty francs. When we carried dresses
home we generally got twenty or thirty centimes. That made fifteen centimes for each of us,
because we always did errands in couples. One night at ten o'clock we had to go quite across
Florence in a driving rain to carry a lady a ball-dress. We were dripping wet when we reached
her palace, but the dress was in good order, and we hoped, considering the lateness of the
hour, and the bad weather, and so on, that the lady would give us something handsome, perhaps
as much as half a franc. Well, she was very glad to see us, and, after putting on the dress,
she said that she must give us something. And so she did,--five centimes [one cent] to each
of us! I swallowed my anger, and put the coin into my pocket, but my companion fitted hers
nicely into the key-hole of the hall door as soon as it was closed behind us. "There!" says
she; "now my lady miser will have to send for a locksmith, and that will teach her not to be
so stingy another time." So we both ran home laughing, in spite of our disappointment. But
we were not so fortunate as to get off without a scolding. The next day the lady came to Madama
and complained of our impertinence. Madama scolded us a little; but when she heard what a pitiful
buona mano the lady had given us, she could not help laughing herself.

Still, she never thought of raising our pay, and as I improved, and felt myself quite mistress
of my trade, I began to work over hours, at one or two houses where La Mamma had patrons, and
in that way I got on very quickly. It was a proud day for me, signora, when I first began to
give La Mamma something toward the housekeeping. I wanted to give her two-thirds of all I earned,
but she would not let me. When I began to earn a franc and a half a day, she accepted half
a franc, but she made me put away the franc for my dote. La Mamma always walked with me to
the houses where I went to work, and in the evening either came for me herself or sent Marc
Antonio. And she bade me be very careful and watchful and keep myself to myself. Often I thought
her severe and suspicious, but now I thank God for the mother he gave us. We owe all the happiness
of our lives to her.

I had been working for myself, as I have said, for more than five years. I had plenty of patrons,
and was well thought of. Plain as I am, signora, I had not wanted for opportunities to go wrong;
but, thank God, I never did. Once, too, I had thought of being married, but, happily for me,
I found out in time that I had set my love on a bad man, so I broke off my engagement, and
put the thought of marriage away from me. Fausta had been married a long time, and so had Marc
Antonio. Flavia said that she never would leave La Mamma, and I thought that I would do the
same. But it was not to be. One morning La Mamma, who had been sitting up with a sick baby
at the Albergo della Stella, came home and told me that I was born to good fortune,--that Signorina
Teodora, the landlord's daughter, was going to be married, and that I was wanted to work at
the trousseau. It was all to be made at home, and the signorina engaged me for three months.
It was the first time that I had ever gone to an hotel to work; and La Mamma gave me a great
many counsels about my behavior. Signorina Teodora was very kind, and the work was just exactly
what I liked to do. I used to sew in the guarda-roba (linen-room), where the linen-keeper,
a very respectable woman, was busy all day, mending and arranging the linen. That was all well
enough, but at meal-times I was very uncomfortable. I used to go down to the servants' dining-room,
and there the talk, and the manners too, were coarse and rude. I did not like to complain,
but my position was a very hard one. I had taught the men to keep their distance, and they
did so, but they were cross and disagreeable to me, and nicknamed me "La Superba" (the proud
one). The women-servants all said that I gave myself airs, and if they could do anything to
annoy me they did. At last I proposed to Signorina Teodora that I should be allowed to take
my meals in the guarda-roba, so that I might be nearer my work. But she said no, that would
not do, but that I might have them in a little room next the padrone's dining-room, and that
she would say that this was because I was wanted for trying on her dresses just at the time
that the servants' dinner was served. The first time I went down to dinner alone I felt very
much frightened; but my dinner was put on the table very nicely, and one of the men-servants,
whom I had never spoken to before, waited on me. He did so just as politely as if I had been
a lady, but he was very quiet. The next day he began to talk a little, and told me about his
mother (who was dead), and about his childhood, and the customs of the Abruzzi, because he
came from that part of Italy. We used to talk together so, day after day, while he waited on
me, and we became very good friends. At last, when the time of my engagement was nearly run
out, Luigi--that was the waiter's name--became very silent, but he served my dinner as nicely
and carefully as ever. I was a little afraid that I had offended him, because every evening
he used to say, as I rose from the table, "Are you coming back to-morrow?" And every time I
said yes, he would answer, "Well, then, I can say what I have to say to-morrow," At last one
night, when he said as usual, "Are you coming back to-morrow, sarta [dressmaker]?" I answered
no,--that my work was over. "Well, then," says Luigi, "I must find courage to tell you to-night,
sarta, that I love you, and I want you to be my wife!"

I sat still a moment, quite thunder-struck, and then I jumped up and ran out of the room. "I
can say not a word," I said, as I passed him, "You know you ought to have spoken to La Mamma
first."

"If that's all," says he, following me to the foot of the stairs, "I can speak to La Mamma
to-morrow night."

"And then I may say no," I called out as I ran up-stairs.

Well, the next night he came to see La Mamma, and brought his uncle with him. This uncle was
a very decent man, who had been gardener for thirty years in Count Gemiani's family. He was
the only relation Luigi had in the world, and he gave him an excellent character. But I would
not say a word. I told Luigi I could not tell whether I liked him or not until I saw him in
borghese [i.e., dressed in ordinary clothes], because you know, signora, I had only seen him
dressed in black, with a white cravat. Well, he was very patient, and, as soon as he was at
liberty, he came again, dressed in borghese, and then he pleased me, and I made up my mind
to have him.

But then came another trouble. The match was not well looked upon by La Mamma and my brother
and sisters, because Luigi was a person in service, and that had never happened in our family
before. Babbo, as I have said, was a carrier; Mamma, a silk-weaver; Marc Antonio had married
a cucitrice di bianco [shirt-maker]; Fausta, a candle-maker,--but, to be sure, her marriage
did not matter, because her husband was a bad man. However, I was obstinate, and La Mamma liked
Luigi in her heart, and so at last we were engaged. He used to come and see me two evenings
in the week. Sometimes La Mamma sat with us, and sometimes Flavia. When it was Flavia's turn
Luigi used to laugh and say the sentinel was changed. We had to keep our engagement very quiet,
because you know that the men-servants at Italian hotels are not allowed to marry, and, though
most of them are in reality married men, they always pretend to be bachelors. Gradually we
made our preparations. Luigi had nearly eight hundred francs saved, and I had about four hundred.
We spent about three hundred in getting our furniture and linen and so on, and Luigi took an
apartment in the Borgo Santo Jacopo. I chose the house because it is directly opposite the
Albergo della Stella, and I knew that I should feel happier if I could look across the river
to the hotel lights and think that my Luigi was there. We were married on the morning of the
30th of August, and when we had been promessi sposi for six months. The religious marriage
was just after the early mass [five o'clock], and we all walked over together to the church.
I felt quite calm,--not frightened at all; but when, four hours later, we had to go over to
the Palazzo Vecchio for the civil marriage, I was all tears and trembling. However, that passed,
like other things. We had quite a fine wedding breakfast. Marc Antonio had brought a friend
of his, a nice, quiet man, who was a very good cook. He was out of place just then, and he
had offered to cook for us if we would give him his breakfast. We had a mixed fry, and macaroni,
and ravaioli, and a melon, one course after another, just like signori. Everybody had a good
appetite, except Luigi and me, and La Mamma said that it did her soul good to hear the sound
of frying in the house. Poverina! she did not often hear it. Well, after breakfast we all took
a walk in the country, and when we came home again Flavia began to prepare supper, but Luigi
said no, we must go home, that our supper was waiting for us there. So I put my bonnet on,
and then, when we were ready to say good-by, every one burst into tears,--La Mamma, and Flavia,
and Fausta, and Marc Antonio and his wife, and I, and even Luigi, though he said afterward
he was sure he did not know why. And how we all embraced! The signora would have thought that
we were going over the sea, instead of just across the Ponte Vecchio. At last we went away
arm in arm, and when we got to our own home there I found that Luigi had arranged the table
so nicely, just as he used to do at the albergo, and had put a bunch of flowers in the centre.
So we sat down to supper, and pretended to be signori just for that one evening.

The next day, being Sunday, we all went to high mass at the Duomo, and I wore my new wedding-gown
of black cashmere. In the afternoon we went out to Certosa; and that was the end of my wedding-journey,
for the next morning Luigi had to go back to his work at the albergo, and I had to take up
my sewing again. It seemed so strange to be sitting down to work in my own house, and to look
across the Arno at the great albergo and think that I had a husband there. Luigi could not
come home as often as he longed to do, because he had but two free nights in the week. And
he dared scarcely look out of the window, for fear some one should suspect that he was married,
and then he would have lost his place. However, everything went well. We have been married
eight years now, and, what with Luigi's fifty francs a month, and the incerti [pour-boires]
and my work, we do pretty well. Luigi, thank God, is a good man, faithful and true and kind.
I have never heard an angry word from him yet. And then he has no faults,--he does not smoke,
or drink wine, or gamble; and regularly every month he brings me all his money to take care
of. He is such a good son to La Mamma, too. He would never take a mouthful of food until he
had helped her; and if a famine came to Florence, and there was but a piece of bread between
Luigi and La Mamma, he would make her eat it, I know. Si, signora, we all live together now;
La Mamma takes care of our little boy, and Flavia is head-woman in Madama Castagna's workroom,
while I go out by the day, as I always did. It is a little harder for us this winter than usual,
because there are so few forestieri. It really seemed as if the alberghi would never open.
Luigi said that every evening there would be a crowd of people--waiters, and facchini, and
so on--waiting at the door of the albergo and begging for work. And the padrone [landlord]
used to say, "Find me the forestieri, and I'll find you the work." My Luigi is such a good
servant that the padrone keeps him employed all the year round; but he felt very anxious this
winter when he saw how few forestieri there were, and tried to save in every possible way.
But, thank God, he never grudges La Mamma anything, and she often says that these are her happiest
days. She still works at knitting stockings, and braiding straw, and such light work; and she
takes our baby boy out to walk twice a day, and every day at noon, rain or shine, she goes
to mass. Many a quiet hour she has now in church to pray for Babbo, whom she never forgets,
and for all of us. Then when we all come home from our work we have such pleasant evenings.
I tell about the fine gowns I make for my ladies, and Luigi has so many stories about the grand
forestieri and all their strange caprices, and then Marc Antonio and his wife come in, and
he tells us about the ladies and gentlemen he drives out in his vettura, and she describes
the fine linen she makes for her ladies. Well, if signori live for nothing else, they give
us a great deal of pleasure.

Si, signora, we still live in the same apartment in the Borgo Santo Jacopo, on the south side
of the Arno. I would not go away, because when my husband is at the albergo I can look across
the river and think that he is there. Very often when I sit up late at my work, and all the
rest are asleep and Luigi at the albergo, I look over the river, and the lights at the "Stella"
seem to keep me company. Luigi, too, watches my light. I always sit by my window and keep my
lamp there, so that he may know how late I work. Well, here is the signora's gown quite finished,
and the end of my poor story. So good-night, signora, and may the good Lord send the signora
a happy New Year!

    MARIE L. THOMPSON.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] This true history--a picture, in its general features, of thousands of lives--is given,
as nearly as possible, exactly as it fell from the lips of the narrator.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

Tourgéneff's Idea of Bazaroff.

A volume containing several hundred of Tourgéneff's letters was published last winter in St.
Petersburg by the "Society for Assisting Impecunious Authors and Scholars." It is to be followed
by a second, and the proceeds are to be devoted to the foundation of a "Tourgéneff Memorial
Fund." The whole collection will, we may hope, be translated into English. The following extracts
relate chiefly to the character which is considered by many readers his finest creation, but
which, as is well known, made him for a time very unpopular in Russia:

                                      BOUGIVAL, August 18, 1871.

DEAR A. P.,--Although you do not ask me for a reply, and do not seem to wish for one, yet the
confidence which you have reposed in me and the feeling of sympathy and respect which you have
awakened in me make it my duty to say a few words to you about your letter.... What? You say,
too, that I meant to caricature the youth of Russia in Bazaroff? you repeat this--pardon the
frankness of the expression--nonsensical accusation? Bazaroff,--this is my favorite child,
for whose sake I quarrelled with Katkoff, upon whom I used all the color at my command. Bazaroff,
this fine mind, this hero, a caricature? But it seems that there is nothing to be done in the
case. Just as people accuse Louis Blanc to this day, in spite of all his protestations, of
having introduced the national workshops, they attribute to me a wish to represent our youth
as a caricature. I have long regarded the slander with contempt: I did not expect the feeling
to be renewed on reading your letter.

Now to turn to your "elderly lady,"--that is, to current criticism, to the public. Like every
elderly person, she holds fast to preconceived ideas, however preposterous they may be. For
example, she is perpetually asserting that since my "Annals of a Sportsman" my works are weak,
because, having lived abroad, I cannot know Russia. But this accusation can touch only what
I have written since 1863; for until then--i.e., until my forty-fifth year--I lived almost
uninterruptedly in Russia, except in 1848-49, when I wrote the "Annals of a Sportsman," while
"Roudine," "A Nest of Nobles," "Ellen," and "Fathers and Sons" were written in Russia. But
all that means nothing to the "elderly person:" son siège est fait.

The second weakness of the elderly one is that she persistently follows the fashion. At present
the fashion in literature is politics. Everything non-political is for her rubbish and nonsense.

It is somewhat inconvenient to defend one's own works; but--fancy it!--I cannot even admit
that "Stuk-Stuk" is nonsense. "What is it, then?" you will ask. It is this: it is a study of
the Russian suicide epidemic, which rarely presents anything poetic or pathetic, but almost
always results, on the contrary, from ambition, narrowness, with a mixture of mysticism or
fatalism. You will object that my study is not successful. Possibly not; but I wished to point
you to the right and fitness of investigating purely psychological (non-political and non-social)
questions.

The elderly person reproaches me further with having no convictions. As an answer to that,
my thirty years of literary activity will suffice. For no line which I have written have I
had cause to blush, none have I had occasion to repudiate. Let another say this of himself.
However, let the elderly person babble. I have not heeded her hitherto: I shall not begin now.

I do not know whether I shall write my novel; and I know in advance that it will have many
defects.... But, permit me, dear A. P., why do not the oncoming young people take this task
upon themselves? The old ones would gladly yield them place and honor, and would be the first
to rejoice at the accession of new forces. But in the literary arena there figure the contributors
to the "Djelo"[C] such as H.

You see, dear A. P., that you are not alone in being able to speak the whole truth, regardless
of consequences. I hope you too will not be angry because of it, and will at least take notice
of what I am saying.

I am still suffering from gout,--have reached Bougival, but still go about upon crutches, and
shall hardly reach Paris within a month. You may be sure that I shall return the portfolio safely.

                                      BOUGIVAL, September 11, 1874.

Your letter is so sweet and friendly, dear A. P., that I shall not delay answering it. You
began with Bazaroff; I will begin with him too. You look for him in real life, and you do not
find him. I will tell you why, at once. The times are changed; Bazaroffs are not needed now.
For the social activity that is before us neither extraordinary talent nor even extraordinary
mental power is needed; nothing great, distinguished, very individual. Industry and patience
are required. Men and women must be ready to sacrifice themselves without fame or glory, must
be able to conquer, having no fear of petty, obscure, necessary, elementary work. What, for
instance, can be more necessary or elementary than teaching the peasant to read and write,
helping him to get hospitals, etc.? Of what use are talents, even learning, for such work?
One needs only a heart that can sacrifice its own egotism. You cannot even speak of a profession
in the case (much less of our friend Blank's star). A sense of duty, the magnificent feeling
of patriotism in the true sense of the word,--that is all that is needed. Bazaroff was the
type of "one sent with a message," a great figure, gifted with a definite charm, not without
a certain aureole. All that is not needed now, and it is ridiculous to speak of heroes and
artists of work. Brilliant figures in literature will probably not appear. Those who plunge
into politics will only destroy themselves in vain. This is all true; but many cannot reconcile
themselves at first to the fact, to the uncongenial milieu, to this modest resolve, especially
such responsive and enthusiastic women as yourself. They may say what they please, they want
to be charmed, carried away. You yourself say that you wish to bow in reverence; but before
useful people one does not bow in reverence. We are entering an era of merely useful people;
and these will be the best. Of these there will probably be many, of beautiful, charming workers
very few. And in the very search for a Bazaroff--a living one--is perhaps unconsciously betrayed
the thirst for beauty, naturally of a single peculiar type. All these illusions one must get
rid of.

I should not have reproached your acquaintances with a want of talent if they had not made
pretensions. If they were plodding workers, they would leave nothing to be desired; but when
they loom up and claim admiration, one cannot pass on without reminding them that they have
no right to our admiration.

Ah, A. P.! we shall see no typical characters, none of those new creations of whom people talk
so much. The life of the people is undergoing a process of development and--throughout the
whole mass--of decomposition and recomposition: it needs helpers, not leaders, and only at
the end of this period will important, original figures appear. I have just said that you will
not see them. You are still young. You will live to see the day: as for me, that is another thing.

For the present, let us learn our A, B, C, and teach others, do good gradually, in which you
are already making progress. The letter from your son, which I herewith return, is warm and
good. May he, too, enter the ranks of the useful workers and servants of the people, as we
once had servants of the Czar!

                                      PARIS, January 3, 1876.

TO M. E. SALTIKOFF:[D]--I received your letter yesterday, dear Michael Jefgrafowitch, and,
as you see, I do not delay the answer. Your letter is by no means "dull and blunt," as you
say. On the contrary, it is very good and sensible. It gave me pleasure. There hovers about
it some power and better health, in sharp contrast with its immediate predecessor, which was
an extremely gloomy production. Besides, I am by no means cheerful myself at present: this
is the third day in bed with gout.

