Thus heavily weighted at the outset, the three men opened their office. But hard times had
come.  A drought had shortened the grain crop, killed great numbers of cattle and lessened
the gold supply, and the losses that the farming, ranching, and mineral regions suffered affected
all the commercial and industrial activities of the State, so that there was a general depression.
Business not coming into their office, the three partners went out to hunt for it; and yet
it was elusive, so that they had very little to do and soon were in extremities for living
necessities, even for wood for the kitchen fire. Henry George had fitfully kept a pocket diary
during 1864, and a few entries at this job-printing period tell of the pass of affairs.

"December 25.--Determined to keep a regular journal, and to cultivate habits of determination,
energy, and industry.  Feel that I am in a bad situation, and must use my utmost effort to
keep afloat and go ahead. Will try to follow the following general rules for one week:

"1st.  In every case to determine rationally what is best to be done.

"2nd.  To do everything determined upon immediately, or as soon as an opportunity presents.

"3rd.  To write down what I shall determine upon doing for the succeeding day.

"Saw landlady and told her I was not able to pay rent.

"December 26, 7 A. M.:

"1st.  Propose to-day, in addition to work in office, to write to Boyne.

"2nd.  To get wood in trade.

"3rd.  To talk with Dr. Eaton, and, perhaps, Dr. Morse.

"Rose at quarter to seven.  Stopped at six wood yards trying to get wood in exchange for printing,
but failed.  Did very little in office. Walked and talked with Ike.  Felt very blue and thought
of drawing out. Saw Dr. Eaton, but failed to make a trade.  In evening saw Dr. Morse. Have
not done all, nor as well as I could wish.  Also wrote to Boyne, but did not mail letter.

"January 1 (Sunday).--Annie not very well.  Got down town about 11 o'clock.  Went with Ike
to Chinaman's to see about paper bags. Returned to office and worked off a lot.

"January 2.--Got down town about 8 o'clock.  Worked some labels.  Not much doing.

"January 3.--Working in office all day.  De Long called to talk about getting out a journal.
Did our best day's work."

From time to time they got a little business, enough at any rate to encourage Trump and George
to continue with the office, though Daley dropped out; and each day that the money was there
the two partners took out of the business twenty-five cents apiece, which they together spent
for food, Trump's wife being with her relatives and he taking his dinner with the Georges.
They lived chiefly on cornmeal and milk, potatoes, bread and sturgeon, for meat they could
not afford and sturgeon was the cheapest fish they could find.[1]  Mr. George generally went
to the office early without breakfast, saying that he would get it down town; but knowing that
he had no money, his wife more than suspected that many a morning passed without his getting
a mouthful.  Nor could he borrow money except occasionally, for the drought that had made general
business so bad had hurt all his friends, and, indeed, many of them had already borrowed from
him while he had anything to lend; and he was too proud to complain now to them.  Nor did his
wife complain, though what deepened their anxieties was that they looked for the coming of
a second child.  Mrs. George would not run up bills that she did not have money to meet.  She
parted with her little pieces of jewellery and smaller trinkets one by one, until only her
wedding ring had not been pawned.  And then she told the milkman that she could no longer afford
to take milk, but he offered to continue to supply it for printed cards, which she accepted.
Mr. George's diary is blank just here, but at another time he said:[2]

"I came near starving to death, and at one time I was so close to it that I think I should
have done so but for the job of printing a few cards which enabled us to buy a little cornmeal.
In this darkest time in my life my second child was born."

The baby came at seven o'clock in the morning of January 27, 1865. When it was born the wife
heard the doctor say: "Don't stop to wash the child; he is starving.  Feed him!"  After the
doctor had gone and mother and baby had fallen asleep, the husband left them alone in the house,
and taking the elder child to a neighbour's, himself went to his business in a desperate state
of mind, for his wife's condition made money--some money--an absolute and immediate necessity.
But nothing came into the office and he did not know where to borrow.  What then happened he
told sixteen years subsequently.

"I walked along the street and made up my mind to get money from the first man whose appearance
might indicate that he had it to give.  I stopped a man--a stranger--and told him I wanted
$5.  He asked what I wanted it for.  I told him that my wife was confined and that I had nothing
to give her to eat.  He gave me the money.  If he had not, I think I was desperate enough to
have killed him." [3]

The diary notes commence again twenty days after the new baby's birth and show that the struggle
for subsistence was still continuing, that Henry George abandoned the job-printing office,
and that he and his wife and babies had moved into a smaller house where he had to pay a rent
of only nine dollars a month--just half of his former rent.  This diary consists simply of
two half-sheets of white note paper, folded twice and pinned in the middle, forming two small
neat books of eight pages each of about the size of a visiting card.  The writing is very small,
but clear.

"February 17, 1865 (Friday) 10:40 P.M.--Gave I. Trump this day bill of sale for my interest
in office, with the understanding that if he got any money by selling, I am to get some.  I
am now afloat again, with the world before me.  I have commenced this little book as an experiment--to
aid me in acquiring habits of regularity, punctuality, and purpose.  I will enter in it each
evening the principal events of the day, with notes, if they occur, errors committed or the
reverse, and plans for the morrow and future.  I will make a practice of looking at it on rising
in the morning.

"I am starting out afresh, very much crippled and embarrassed, owing over $200.  I have been
unsuccessful in everything.  I wish to profit by my experience and to cultivate those qualities
necessary to success in which I have been lacking.  I have not saved as much as I ought, and
am resolved to practice a rigid economy until I have something ahead.

"1st.  To make every cent I can.

"2nd.  To spend nothing unnecessarily.

"3rd.  To put something by each week, if it is only a five-cent piece borrowed for the purpose.

"4th.  Not to run in debt if it can be avoided."

"1st.  To endeavour to make an acquaintance and friend of every one with whom I am brought
in contact.

"2nd.  To stay at home less, and be more social.

"3rd.  To strive to think consecutively and decide quickly."

"February 18.--Rose at 6 o'clock.  Took cards to woodman.  Went to post-office and got two
letters, one from Wallazz and another from mother.  Heard that Smith was up and would probably
not go down.  Tried to hunt him up.  Ran around after him a great deal.  Saw him; made an appointment,
but he did not come.  Finally met him about 4.  He said that he had written up for a man, who
had first choice; but he would do all he could.  I was much disappointed.  Went back to office;
then after Knowlton, but got no money.  Then went to Alta office.  Smith there.  Stood talking
till they went to work.  Then to job office.  Ike had got four bits [50 cents] from Dr. Josselyn.
Went home, and he came out to supper.

"Got up in good season.

"Tried to be energetic about seeing Smith.  Have not done with that matter yet, but will try
every means.

"To-morrow will write to Cousin Sophia,[5] and perhaps to Wallazz and mother, and will try
to make acquaintances.  Am in very desperate plight.  Courage!

"February 19 (Sunday).--Rose about 9.  Ran a small bill with Wessling for flour, coffee, and
butter.  After breakfast took Harry around to Wilbur's.  Talked a while.  Went down town. 
Could not get in office. Went into Alta office several times.  Then walked around, hoping to
strike Smith.  Ike to dinner.  Afterward walked with him, looking for house.  Was at Alta office
at 6, but no work.  Went with Ike to Stickney's and together went to Californian office.  Came
home and summed up assets and liabilities.  At 10 went to bed, with determination of getting
up at 6 and going to Bulletin office.

"Have wasted a great deal of time in looking for Smith.  Think it would have been better to
have hunted him at once or else trusted to luck. There seems to be very little show for me
down there.  Don't know what to do.

"February 20.--Got up too late to go to the Bulletin office.  Got $1 from woodman.  Got my
pants from the tailor.  Saw Smith and had a long talk with him.  He seemed sorry that he had
not thought of me, but said another man had been spoken to and was anxious to go.  Went to
Alta office several times.  Came home early and went to Alta office at 6 and to Call at 7,
but got no work.  Went to Ike Trump's room, and then came home.

"Was not prompt enough in rising.  Have been walking around a good part of the day without
definite purpose, thereby losing time.

"February 21.--Worked for Ike.  Did two cards for $1.  Saw about books, and thought some of
travelling with them.  Went to Alta before coming home.  In evening had row with Chinaman.
Foolish.

"February 22.--Hand very sore.  Did not go down till late.  Went to work in Bulletin at 12.
Got $3.  Saw Boyne.  Went to library in evening.  Thinking of economy.

"February 26.--Went to Bulletin; no work.  Went with Ike Trump to look at house on hill; came
home to breakfast.  Decided to take house on Perry Street with Mrs. Stone; took it.  Came home
and moved.  Paid $5 of rent.  About 6 o'clock went down town.  Saw Ike; got 50 cents. Walked
around and went to Typographical Union meeting.  Then saw Ike again.  Found Knowlton had paid
him for printing plant, and demanded some of the money.  He gave me $5 with very bad humour.

"February 27.--Saw Ike in afternoon and had further talk.  In evening went to work for Col.
Strong on Alta.  Smith lent me $3.

"February 28.--Worked again for Strong.  Got $5 from John McComb.

"February 29.--Got $5 from Barstow, and paid Charlie Coddington the $10 I had borrowed from
him on Friday last.  On Monday left at Mrs. Lauder's [the Russ Street landlady] $1.25 for extra
rent and $1.50 for milkman.

"March 1.--Rose early, went to Bulletin; but got no work.  Looked in at Valentine's and saw
George Foster, who told me to go to Frank Eastman's [printing office].  Did so and was told
to call again.  Came home; had breakfast.  Went to Alta in evening, but no work.  Went to Germania
Lodge and then to Stickney's.

"March 2.--Went to Eastman's about 11 o'clock and was put to work.

"March 3.--At work.

"March 4.--At work.  Got $5 in evening."

The strength of the storm had now passed.  The young printer began to get some work at "subbing,"
though it was scant and irregular.  His wife, who paid the second month's rent of the Perry
Street house by sewing for her landlady, remarked to her husband how contentedly they should
be able to live if he could be sure of making regularly twenty dollars a week.

BEGINS WRITING AND TALKING

Henry George's career as a writer should be dated from the commencement of 1865, when he was
an irregular, substitute printer at Eastman's and on the daily newspapers, just after his severe
job-office experience. He now deliberately set himself to self-improvement.  These few diary
notes for the end of March and beginning of April are found in a small blank book that in 1878,
while working on "Progress and Poverty," he also used as a diary.

"Saturday, March 25, 1865.--As I knew we would have no letter this morning, I did not hurry
down to the office.  After getting breakfast, took the wringing machine which I had been using
as a sample back to Faulkner's; then went to Eastman's and saw to bill; loafed around until
about 2 P. M.  Concluded that the best thing I could do would be to go home and write a little.
Came home and wrote for the sake of practice an essay on the 'Use of Time,' which occupied
me until Annie prepared dinner.  Went to Eastman's by six, got money.  Went to Union meeting.

"Sunday, March 26.--Did not get out until 11 o'clock.  Took Harry down town and then to Wilbur's.
Proposed to have Dick [the new baby] baptised in afternoon; got Mrs. Casey to come to the house
for that purpose, but concluded to wait.  Went to see Dull, who took me to his shop and showed
me the model of his wagon brake.

"Monday, March 27.--Got down to office about one o'clock; but no proofs yet.  Strolled around
a little.  Went home and wrote communication for Aleck Kenneday's new paper, Journal of the
Trades and Workingmen.  Took it down to him.  In the evening called on Rev. Mr. Simonds.

"Tuesday, 28.--Got down late.  No work.  In afternoon wrote article about laws relating to
sailors.  In evening went down to Dull's shop while he was engaged on model.

"Wednesday, 29.--Went to work about 10:30.  In evening corrected proof for Journal of the Trades
and Workingmen.

"Thursday, 30.--At work.

"Tuesday, April 4.--Despatch received stating that Richmond and Petersburgh are both in our
possession.

"Wednesday, 5.--Took model of wagon brake to several carriage shops; also to Alta office. 
In evening signed agreement with Dull.

"Saturday, 8.--Not working; bill for week, $23.  Paid Frank Mahon the $5 I have been owing
for some time.  Met Harrison, who had just come down from up the country.  He has a good thing
up there.  Talked with Dull and drew up advertisement.  In evening, nothing."

Thus while he was doing haphazard type-setting, and trying to interest carriage builders in
a new wagon brake, he was also beginning to write. The first and most important of these pieces
of writing mentioned in the diary notes--on "The Use of Time"--was sent by Mr. George to his
mother, as an indication of his intention to improve himself. Commencing with boyhood, Henry
George, as has been seen, had the power of simple and clear statement, and if this essay served
no other purpose than to show the development of that natural power, it would be of value.
But as a matter of fact, it has a far greater value; for while repeating his purpose to practise
writing--"to acquire facility and elegance in the expression" of his thought--it gives an introspective
glimpse into the naturally secretive mind, revealing an intense desire, if not for the "flesh
pots of Egypt," at least for such creature and intellectual comforts as would enable him and
those close to him "to bask themselves in the warm sunshine of the brief day." This paper is
presented in full:

Essay, Saturday Afternoon, March 25, 1865.

"ON THE PROFITABLE EMPLOYMENT OF TIME."

"Most of us have some principal object of desire at any given time of our lives; something
which we wish more than anything else, either because its want is more felt, or that it includes
other desirable things, and we are conscious that in gaining it we obtain the means of gratifying
other of our wishes.

"With most of us this power, in one shape or the other--is money, or that which is its equivalent
or will bring it.

"For this end we subject ourselves to many sacrifices; for its gain we are willing to confine
ourselves and employ our minds and bodies in duties which, for their own sakes, are irksome;
and if we do not throw the whole force of our natures into the effort to gain this, it is that
we do not possess the requisite patience, self-command, and penetration where we may direct
our efforts.

"I am constantly longing for wealth; the wide difference between my wishes and the means of
gratifying them at my command keeps me in perpetual disquiet.  It would bring me comfort and
luxury which I cannot now obtain; it would give me more congenial employment and associates;
it would enable me to cultivate my mind and exert to a fuller extent my powers; it would give
me the ability to minister to the comfort and enjoyment of those whom I love most, and, therefore,
it is my principal object in life to obtain wealth, or at least more of it than I have at present.

"Whether this is right or wrong, I do not now consider; but that it is so I am conscious. 
When I look behind at my past life I see that I have made little or no progress, and am disquieted;
when I consider my present, it is difficult to see that I am moving toward it at all; and all
my comfort in this respect is in the hope of what the future may bring forth.

"And yet my hopes are very vague and indistinct, and my efforts in any direction, save the
beaten track in which I have been used to earn my bread, are, when perceptible, jerky, irregular,
and without intelligent, continuous direction.

"When I succeed in obtaining employment, I am industrious and work faithfully, though it does
not satisfy my wishes.  When I have nothing to do, I am anxious to be in some way labouring
toward the end I wish, and yet from hour to hour I cannot tell at what to employ myself.

"To secure any given result it is only necessary to rightly supply sufficient force.  Some
men possess a greater amount of natural power than others and produce quicker and more striking
results; yet it is apparent that the abilities of the majority, if properly and continuously
applied, are sufficient to accomplish much more than they generally do.

"The hours which I have idled away, though made miserable by the consciousness of accomplishing
nothing, had been sufficient to make me master of almost any common branch of study.  If, for
instance, I had applied myself to the practice of bookkeeping and arithmetic I might now have
been an expert in those things; or I might have had the dictionary at my fingers' ends; been
a practised, and perhaps an able, writer; a much better printer; or been able to read and write
French, Spanish, or any other modern or ancient language to which I might have directed my
attention; and the mastery of any of these things now would give me an additional, appreciable
power, and means by which to work to my end, not to speak of that which would have been gained
by exercise and good mental habits.

"These truths are not sudden discoveries; but have been as apparent for years as at this present
time; but always wishing for some chance to make a sudden leap forward, I have never been able
to direct my mind and concentrate my attention upon those slow processes by which everything
mental (and in most cases material) is acquired.

"Constantly the mind works, and if but a tithe of its attention was directed to some end, how
many matters might it have taken up in succession, increasing its own stores and power while
mastering them?

"To sum up for the present, though this essay has hardly taken the direction and shape which
at the outset I intended, it is evident to me that I have not employed the time and means at
my command faithfully and advantageously as I might have done, and consequently, that I have
myself to blame for at least a part of my non-success.  And this being true of the past, in
the future like results will flow from like causes.  I will, therefore, try (though, as I know
from experience, it is much easier to form good resolutions than to faithfully carry them out)
to employ my mind in acquiring useful information or practice, when I have nothing leading
more directly to my end claiming my attention.  When practicable, or when I cannot decide upon
anything else, I will endeavour to acquire facility and elegance in the expression of my thought
by writing essays or other matters which I will preserve for future comparison.  And in this
practice it will be well to aim at mechanical neatness and grace, as well as at proper and
polished language."

Of the two other pieces of writing spoken of in the diary notes, the "article about laws relating
to sailors," has left no trace, but a copy of the one for the Journal of the Trades and Workingmen
has been preserved.

[1] Unlike that fish on the Atlantic Coast, sturgeon on the Pacific Coast, or at any rate in
California waters, is of fine quality and could easily be substituted on the table for halibut.

[2] Meeker notes, October, 1897.

[3] Henry George related this incident to Dr. James E. Kelly in a conversation in Dublin during
the winter of 1881-82, in proof that environment has more to do with human actions, and especially
with so-called criminal actions, than we generally concede; and to show how acute poverty may
drive sound-minded, moral men to the commission of deeds that are supposed to belong entirely
to hardened evil natures. Out of long philosophical and physiological talks together at that
time the two men formed a warm friendship, and subsequently, when he came to the United States
and established himself in New York, Dr. Kelly became Henry George's family physician and attended
him at his deathbed.

[4] She was now a widow, James George having died in the preceding August.

JACOB RIIS.

(1849-1914)

"THE MAKING OF AN AMERICAN"

The intimate friend at once of "the children of the tenements" and of Theodore Roosevelt, Jacob
A. Riis was beloved by countless New Yorkers for his gallant "battle with the slums," and for
the message he brought as to "how the other half lives."

From experiences that would have spelled permanent degradation to a man of baser metal, he
won the knowledge, sympathy, and inspiration that made him one of the most exceptionally useful
and exceptionally loved of American citizens.

From "The Making of an American," by Jacob A. Riis.  The Macmillan Company.  Copyright, 1901-'08.

[After a while he fell in with some Danish friends and there was a period of more prosperous
times, including some experiences on the lecture platform.

[But there came again a season of hard times for him and the Newfoundland dog some one had
given him, and he had some unhappy experiences as a book agent].  To-day I had not even so much.

WILLIAM H. RIDEING

(1853-)

REJECTED MANUSCRIPTS

Nowadays, it seems, every one reads, also writes.  There are few streets where the callous
postman does not occasionally render some doorstep desolate by the delivery of a rejected manuscript.
Fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind, and the first steps in the career of a successful man
of letters are always interesting.  You remember how Franklin slyly dropped his first contribution
through the slit in his brother's printing-house door; and how the young Charles Dickens crept
softly to the letter-box up a dark court, off a dark alley, near Fleet Street.

In the case of Mr. Rideing, all must admire and be thankful for the indomitable spirit which
disappointments were unable to discourage.

From "Many Celebrities and a Few Others," by William H. Rideing. Doubleday, Page & Co., 1913.

I do not know to a certainty just how or when the new ambition found its cranny and sprouted,
and I wonder that it did not perish at once, like others of its kind which never blossoming
were torn from the bed that nourished them and borne afar like balls of thistledown.  How and
why it survived the rest, which seemed more feasible, I am not able to answer fully or satisfactorily
to myself, and other people have yet to show any curiosity about it.

How at this period I watched for the postman!  Envelopes of portentous bulk were put into my
hands so often that I became inured to disappointment, unsurprised and unhurt, like a patient
father who has more faith in the abilities of his children than the stupid and purblind world
which will not employ them.

These rejected essays and tales were my children, and the embarrassing number of them did not
curb my philoprogenitiveness.

Dawn broke unheeded and without reproach to the novice as he sat by candle-light at his table
giving shape and utterance to dreams which did not foretell penalties, nor allow any intimation
to reach him of the disillusionings sure to come, sharp-edged and poignant, with the awakening
day.  The rocky coast of realities, with its shoals and whirlpools, which encircles the sphere
of dreams, is never visible till the sun is high.  You are not awake till you strike it.

Up and dressed, careless of breakfast, he hears the postman's knock.

There is Something for the boy, which at a glance instantly dispels the clouds of his drowsiness
and makes his heart jump: an envelope not bulky, an envelope whose contents tremble in his
hand and grow dim in his eyes, and have to be read and read again before they can be believed.
One of his stories has at last found a place and will be printed next month!  Life may bestow
on us its highest honours, and wealth beyond the dreams of avarice, the guerdon of a glorious
lot, but it can never transcend or repeat the thrill and ecstasy of the triumphant apotheosis
of such a moment as that.

It was a fairy story, and though nobody could have suspected it, the fairy queen was Miss Goodall,
much diminished in stature, of course, with all her indubitable excellencies, her nobility
of character, and her beauty of person sublimated to an essence that only a Lilliputian vessel
could hold.  Her instincts were domestic, and her domain was the hearthstone, and there she
and her attendants, miniatures of the charming damsels in Miss McGinty's peachy and strawberry-legged
corps de ballet, rewarded virtue and trampled meanness under their dainty, twinkling feet.
Moreover, the story was to be paid for, a condition of the greater glory, an irrefragable proof
of merit.  Only as evidence of worth was money thought of, and though much needed, it alone
was lightly regarded.  The amount turned out to be very small.  The editor handed it out of
his trousers pocket--not the golden guinea looked for, but a few shillings.  He must have detected
a little disappointment in the drooping corners of the boy's mouth, for without any remark
from him he said--he was a dingy and inscrutable person--"That is all we ever pay--four shillings
per colyume," pronouncing the second syllable of that word like the second syllable of "volume."

What did the amount matter to the boy?  A paper moist and warm from the press was in his hands,
and as he walked home through sleet and snow and wind--the weather of the old sea-port was
in one of its tantrums--he stopped time and again to look at his name, his very own name, shining
there in letters as lustrous as the stars of heaven.

When that little story of mine appeared in all the glory of print, Fame stood at my door, a
daughter of the stars in such array that it blinded one to look at her.  She has never come
near me since, and I have changed my opinion of her: a beguiling minx, with little taste or
judgment, and more than her share of feminine lightness and caprice; an unconscionable flirt,
that is all she is.

