To do so, it will be necessary roughly to compare the two sets of conventions upon which plays
and romances are respectively based.  The purposes of these two arts are so much alike, and
they deal so much with the same passions and interests, that we are apt to forget the fundamental
opposition of their methods.  And yet such a fundamental opposition exists.  In the drama the
action is developed in great measure by means of things that remain outside of the art; by
means of real things, that is, and not artistic conventions for things.  This is a sort of
realism that is not to be confounded with that realism in painting of which we hear so much.
The realism in painting is a thing of purposes; this, that we have to indicate in the drama,
is an affair of method.  We have heard a story, indeed, of a painter in France who, when he
wanted to paint a sea-beach, carried realism from his ends to his means, and plastered real
sand upon his canvas; and that is precisely what is done in the drama.  The dramatic author
has to paint his beaches with real sand: real live men and women move about the stage; we hear
real voices; what is feigned merely puts a sense upon what is; we do actually see a woman go
behind a screen as Lady Teazle, and, after a certain interval, we do actually see her very
shamefully produced again.  Now all these things, that remain as they were in life, and are
not transmuted into any artistic convention, are terribly stubborn and difficult to deal with;
and hence there are for the dramatist many resultant limitations in time and space. These limitations
in some sort approximate towards those of painting: the dramatic author is tied down, not indeed
to a moment, but to the duration of each scene or act; he is confined to the stage, almost
as the painter is confined within his frame.  But the great restriction is this, that a dramatic
author must deal with his actors, and with his actors alone.  Certain moments of suspense,
certain significant dispositions of personages, a certain logical growth of emotion, these
are the only means at the disposal of the playwright.  It is true that, with the assistance
of the scene-painter, the costumier and the conductor of the orchestra, he may add to this
something of pageant, something of sound and fury; but these are, for the dramatic writer,
beside the mark, and do not come under the vivifying touch of his genius.  When we turn to
romance, we find this no longer. Here nothing is reproduced to our senses directly.  Not only
the main conception of the work, but the scenery, the appliances, the mechanism by which this
conception is brought home to us, have been put through the crucible of another man's mind,
and come out again, one and all, in the form of written words.  With the loss of every degree
of such realism as we have described, there is for art a clear gain of liberty and largeness
of competence.  Thus, painting, in which the round outlines of things are thrown on to a flat
board, is far more free than sculpture, in which their solidity is preserved.  It is by giving
up these identities that art gains true strength.  And so in the case of novels as compared
with the stage.  Continuous narration is the flat board on to which the novelist throws everything.
And from this there results for him a great loss of vividness, but a great compensating gain
in his power over the subject; so that he can now subordinate one thing to another in importance,
and introduce all manner of very subtle detail, to a degree that was before impossible.  He
can render just as easily the flourish of trumpets before a victorious emperor and the gossip
of country market women, the gradual decay of forty years of a man's life and the gesture of
a passionate moment.  He finds himself equally unable, if he looks at it from one point of
view - equally able, if he looks at it from another point of view - to reproduce a colour,
a sound, an outline, a logical argument, a physical action.  He can show his readers, behind
and around the personages that for the moment occupy the foreground of his story, the continual
suggestion of the landscape; the turn of the weather that will turn with it men's lives and
fortunes, dimly foreshadowed on the horizon; the fatality of distant events, the stream of
national tendency, the salient framework of causation.  And all this thrown upon the flat board
- all this entering, naturally and smoothly, into the texture of continuous intelligent narration.

This touches the difference between Fielding and Scott.  In the work of the latter, true to
his character of a modern and a romantic, we become suddenly conscious of the background. Fielding,
on the other hand, although he had recognised that the novel was nothing else than an epic
in prose, wrote in the spirit not of the epic, but of the drama.  This is not, of course, to
say that the drama was in any way incapable of a regeneration similar in kind to that of which
I am now speaking with regard to the novel.  The notorious contrary fact is sufficient to guard
the reader against such a misconstruction.  All that is meant is, that Fielding remained ignorant
of certain capabilities which the novel possesses over the drama; or, at least, neglected and
did not develop them.  To the end he continued to see things as a playwright sees them.  The
world with which he dealt, the world he had realised for himself and sought to realise and
set before his readers, was a world of exclusively human interest.  As for landscape, he was
content to underline stage directions, as it might be done in a play-book: Tom and Molly retire
into a practicable wood.  As for nationality and public sentiment, it is curious enough to
think that Tom Jones is laid in the year forty-five, and that the only use he makes of the
rebellion is to throw a troop of soldiers into his hero's way.  It is most really important,
however, to remark the change which has been introduced into the conception of character by
the beginning of the romantic movement and the consequent introduction into fiction of a vast
amount of new material.  Fielding tells us as much as he thought necessary to account for the
actions of his creatures; he thought that each of these actions could be decomposed on the
spot into a few simple personal elements, as we decompose a force in a question of abstract
dynamics. The larger motives are all unknown to him; he had not understood that the nature
of the landscape or the spirit of the times could be for anything in a story; and so, naturally
and rightly, he said nothing about them.  But Scott's instinct, the instinct of the man of
an age profoundly different, taught him otherwise; and, in his work, the individual characters
begin to occupy a comparatively small proportion of that canvas on which armies manoeuvre,
and great hills pile themselves upon each other's shoulders. Fielding's characters were always
great to the full stature of a perfectly arbitrary will.  Already in Scott we begin to have
a sense of the subtle influences that moderate and qualify a man's personality; that personality
is no longer thrown out in unnatural isolation, but is resumed into its place in the constitution
of things.

It is this change in the manner of regarding men and their actions first exhibited in romance,
that has since renewed and vivified history.  For art precedes philosophy and even science.
People must have noticed things and interested themselves in them before they begin to debate
upon their causes or influence.  And it is in this way that art is the pioneer of knowledge;
those predilections of the artist he knows not why, those irrational acceptations and recognitions,
reclaim, out of the world that we have not yet realised, ever another and another corner; and
after the facts have been thus vividly brought before us and have had time to settle and arrange
themselves in our minds, some day there will be found the man of science to stand up and give
the explanation.  Scott took an interest in many things in which Fielding took none; and for
this reason, and no other, he introduced them into his romances.  If he had been told what
would be the nature of the movement that he was so lightly initiating, he would have been very
incredulous and not a little scandalised.  At the time when he wrote, the real drift of this
new manner of pleasing people in fiction was not yet apparent; and, even now, it is only by
looking at the romances of Victor Hugo that we are enabled to form any proper judgment in the
matter.  These books are not only descended by ordinary generation from the Waverley novels,
but it is in them chiefly that we shall find the revolutionary tradition of Scott carried farther
that we shall find Scott himself, in so far as regards his conception of prose fiction and
its purposes, surpassed in his own spirit, instead of tamely followed.  We have here, as I
said before, a line of literary tendency produced, and by this production definitely separated
from others.  When we come to Hugo, we see that the deviation, which seemed slight enough and
not very serious between Scott and Fielding, is indeed such a great gulph in thought and sentiment
as only successive generations can pass over: and it is but natural that one of the chief advances
that Hugo has made upon Scott is an advance in self-consciousness.  Both men follow the same
road; but where the one went blindly and carelessly, the other advances with all deliberation
and forethought.  There never was artist much more unconscious than Scott; and there have been
not many more conscious than Hugo.  The passage at the head of these pages shows how organically
he had understood the nature of his own changes.  He has, underlying each of the five great
romances (which alone I purpose here to examine), two deliberate designs: one artistic, the
other consciously ethical and intellectual.  This is a man living in a different world from
Scott, who professes sturdily (in one of his introductions) that he does not believe in novels
having any moral influence at all; but still Hugo is too much of an artist to let himself be
hampered by his dogmas; and the truth is that the artistic result seems, in at least one great
instance, to have very little connection with the other, or directly ethical result.

The artistic result of a romance, what is left upon the memory by any really powerful and artistic
novel, is something so complicated and refined that it is difficult to put a name upon it and
yet something as simple as nature. These two propositions may seem mutually destructive, but
they are so only in appearance.  The fact is that art is working far ahead of language as well
as of science, realising for us, by all manner of suggestions and exaggerations, effects for
which as yet we have no direct name; nay, for which we may never perhaps have a direct name,
for the reason that these effects do not enter very largely into the necessities of life. 
Hence alone is that suspicion of vagueness that often hangs about the purpose of a romance:
it is clear enough to us in thought; but we are not used to consider anything clear until we
are able to formulate it in words, and analytical language has not been sufficiently shaped
to that end.  We all know this difficulty in the case of a picture, simple and strong as may
be the impression that it has left with us; and it is only because language is the medium of
romance, that we are prevented from seeing that the two cases are the same.  It is not that
there is anything blurred or indefinite in the impression left with us, it is just because
the impression is so very definite after its own kind, that we find it hard to fit it exactly
with the expressions of our philosophical speech.

It is this idea which underlies and issues from a romance, this something which it is the function
of that form of art to create, this epical value, that I propose chiefly to seek and, as far
as may be, to throw into relief, in the present study.  It is thus, I believe, that we shall
see most clearly the great stride that Hugo has taken beyond his predecessors, and how, no
longer content with expressing more or less abstract relations of man to man, he has set before
himself the task of realising, in the language of romance, much of the involution of our complicated
lives.

This epical value is not to be found, let it be understood, in every so-called novel.  The
great majority are not works of art in anything but a very secondary signification.  One might
almost number on one's fingers the works in which such a supreme artistic intention has been
in any way superior to the other and lesser aims, themselves more or less artistic, that generally
go hand in hand with it in the conception of prose romance.  The purely critical spirit is,
in most novels, paramount.  At the present moment we can recall one man only, for whose works
it would have been equally possible to accomplish our present design: and that man is Hawthorne.
There is a unity, an unwavering creative purpose, about some at least of Hawthorne's romances,
that impresses itself on the most indifferent reader; and the very restrictions and weaknesses
of the man served perhaps to strengthen the vivid and single impression of his works.  There
is nothing of this kind in Hugo: unity, if he attains to it, is indeed unity out of multitude;
and it is the wonderful power of subordination and synthesis thus displayed, that gives us
the measure of his talent.  No amount of mere discussion and statement, such as this, could
give a just conception of the greatness of this power.  It must be felt in the books themselves,
and all that can be done in the present essay is to recall to the reader the more general features
of each of the five great romances, hurriedly and imperfectly, as space will permit, and rather
as a suggestion than anything more complete.

The moral end that the author had before him in the conception of NOTRE DAME DE PARIS was (he
tells us) to "denounce" the external fatality that hangs over men in the form of foolish and
inflexible superstition.  To speak plainly, this moral purpose seems to have mighty little
to do with the artistic conception; moreover it is very questionably handled, while the artistic
conception is developed with the most consummate success.  Old Paris lives for us with newness
of life: we have ever before our eyes the city cut into three by the two arms of the river,
the boat- shaped island "moored" by five bridges to the different shores, and the two unequal
towns on either hand.  We forget all that enumeration of palaces and churches and convents
which occupies so many pages of admirable description, and the thoughtless reader might be
inclined to conclude from this, that they were pages thrown away; but this is not so: we forget,
indeed, the details, as we forget or do not see the different layers of paint on a completed
picture; but the thing desired has been accomplished, and we carry away with us a sense of
the "Gothic profile" of the city, of the "surprising forest of pinnacles and towers and belfries,"
and we know not what of rich and intricate and quaint.  And throughout, Notre Dame has been
held up over Paris by a height far greater than that of its twin towers: the Cathedral is present
to us from the first page to the last; the title has given us the clue, and already in the
Palace of Justice the story begins to attach itself to that central building by character after
character.  It is purely an effect of mirage; Notre Dame does not, in reality, thus dominate
and stand out above the city; and any one who should visit it, in the spirit of the Scott-tourists
to Edinburgh or the Trossachs, would be almost offended at finding nothing more than this old
church thrust away into a corner.  It is purely an effect of mirage, as we say; but it is an
effect that permeates and possesses the whole book with astonishing consistency and strength.
And then, Hugo has peopled this Gothic city, and, above all, this Gothic church, with a race
of men even more distinctly Gothic than their surroundings. We know this generation already:
we have seen them clustered about the worn capitals of pillars, or craning forth over the church-leads
with the open mouths of gargoyles.  About them all there is that sort of stiff quaint unreality,
that conjunction of the grotesque, and even of a certain bourgeois snugness, with passionate
contortion and horror, that is so characteristic of Gothic art.  Esmeralda is somewhat an exception;
she and the goat traverse the story like two children who have wandered in a dream.  The finest
moment of the book is when these two share with the two other leading characters, Dom Claude
and Quasimodo, the chill shelter of the old cathedral.  It is here that we touch most intimately
the generative artistic idea of the romance: are they not all four taken out of some quaint
moulding, illustrative of the Beatitudes, or the Ten Commandments, or the seven deadly sins?
What is Quasimodo but an animated gargoyle?  What is the whole book but the reanimation of
Gothic art?

It is curious that in this, the earliest of the five great romances, there should be so little
of that extravagance that latterly we have come almost to identify with the author's manner.
Yet even here we are distressed by words, thoughts, and incidents that defy belief and alienate
the sympathies. The scene of the IN PACE, for example, in spite of its strength, verges dangerously
on the province of the penny novelist.  I do not believe that Quasimodo rode upon the bell;
I should as soon imagine that he swung by the clapper. And again the following two sentences,
out of an otherwise admirable chapter, surely surpass what it has ever entered into the heart
of any other man to imagine (vol. ii. p. 180): "Il souffrait tant que par instants il s'arrachait
des poignees de cheveux, POUR VOIR S'ILS NE BLANCHISSAIENT PAS." And, p. 181: "Ses pensees
etaient si insupportables qu'il prenait sa tete a deux mains et tachait de l'arracher de ses
epaules POUR LA BRISER SUR LE PAVE."

One other fault, before we pass on.  In spite of the horror and misery that pervade all of
his later work, there is in it much less of actual melodrama than here, and rarely, I should
say never, that sort of brutality, that useless insufferable violence to the feelings, which
is the last distinction between melodrama and true tragedy.

We look in vain for any similar blemish in LES MISERABLES. Here, on the other hand, there is
perhaps the nearest approach to literary restraint that Hugo has ever made: there is here certainly
the ripest and most easy development of his powers.  It is the moral intention of this great
novel to awaken us a little, if it may be - for such awakenings are unpleasant - to the great
cost of this society that we enjoy and profit by, to the labour and sweat of those who support
the litter, civilisation, in which we ourselves are so smoothly carried forward.  People are
all glad to shut their eyes; and it gives them a very simple pleasure when they can forget
that our laws commit a million individual injustices, to be once roughly just in the general;
that the bread that we eat, and the quiet of the family, and all that embellishes life and
makes it worth having, have to be purchased by death - by the deaths of animals, and the deaths
of men wearied out with labour, and the deaths of those criminals called tyrants and revolutionaries,
and the deaths of those revolutionaries called criminals.  It is to something of all this that
Victor Hugo wishes to open men's eyes in LES MISERABLES; and this moral lesson is worked out
in masterly coincidence with the artistic effect.  The deadly weight of civilisation to those
who are below presses sensibly on our shoulders as we read. A sort of mocking indignation grows
upon us as we find Society rejecting, again and again, the services of the most serviceable;
setting Jean Valjean to pick oakum, casting Galileo into prison, even crucifying Christ.  There
is a haunting and horrible sense of insecurity about the book. The terror we thus feel is a
terror for the machinery of law, that we can hear tearing, in the dark, good and bad between
its formidable wheels with the iron stolidity of all machinery, human or divine.  This terror
incarnates itself sometimes and leaps horribly out upon us; as when the crouching mendicant
looks up, and Jean Valjean, in the light of the street lamp, recognises the face of the detective;
as when the lantern of the patrol flashes suddenly through the darkness of the sewer; or as
when the fugitive comes forth at last at evening, by the quiet riverside, and finds the police
there also, waiting stolidly for vice and stolidly satisfied to take virtue instead.  The whole
book is full of oppression, and full of prejudice, which is the great cause of oppression.
We have the prejudices of M. Gillenormand, the prejudices of Marius, the prejudices in revolt
that defend the barricade, and the throned prejudices that carry it by storm.  And then we
have the admirable but ill-written character of Javert, the man who had made a religion of
the police, and would not survive the moment when he learned that there was another truth outside
the truth of laws; a just creation, over which the reader will do well to ponder.

With so gloomy a design this great work is still full of life and light and love.  The portrait
of the good Bishop is one of the most agreeable things in modern literature.  The whole scene
at Montfermeil is full of the charm that Hugo knows so well how to throw about children.  Who
can forget the passage where Cosette, sent out at night to draw water, stands in admiration
before the illuminated booth, and the huckster behind "lui faisait un peu l'effet d'etre le
Pere eternel?" The pathos of the forlorn sabot laid trustingly by the chimney in expectation
of the Santa Claus that was not, takes us fairly by the throat; there is nothing in Shakespeare
that touches the heart more nearly.  The loves of Cosette and Marius are very pure and pleasant,
and we cannot refuse our affection to Gavroche, although we may make a mental reservation of
our profound disbelief in his existence.  Take it for all in all, there are few books in the
world that can be compared with it.  There is as much calm and serenity as Hugo has ever attained
to; the melodramatic coarsenesses that disfigured NOTRE DAME are no longer present.  There
is certainly much that is painfully improbable; and again, the story itself is a little too
well constructed; it produces on us the effect of a puzzle, and we grow incredulous as we find
that every character fits again and again into the plot, and is, like the child's cube, serviceable
on six faces; things are not so well arranged in life as all that comes to.  Some of the digressions,
also, seem out of place, and do nothing but interrupt and irritate.  But when all is said,
the book remains of masterly conception and of masterly development, full of pathos, full of
truth, full of a high eloquence.

Superstition and social exigency having been thus dealt with in the first two members of the
series, it remained for LES TRAVAILLEURS DE LA MER to show man hand to hand with the elements,
the last form of external force that is brought against him.  And here once more the artistic
effect and the moral lesson are worked out together, and are, indeed, one. Gilliat, alone upon
the reef at his herculean task, offers a type of human industry in the midst of the vague "diffusion
of forces into the illimitable," and the visionary development of "wasted labour" in the sea,
and the winds, and the clouds.  No character was ever thrown into such strange relief as Gilliat.
The great circle of sea-birds that come wanderingly around him on the night of his arrival,
strikes at once the note of his pre-eminence and isolation.  He fills the whole reef with his
indefatigable toil; this solitary spot in the ocean rings with the clamour of his anvil; we
see him as he comes and goes, thrown out sharply against the clear background of the sea. 
And yet his isolation is not to be compared with the isolation of Robinson Crusoe, for example;
indeed, no two books could be more instructive to set side by side than LES TRAVAILLEURS and
this other of the old days before art had learnt to occupy itself with what lies outside of
human will.  Crusoe was one sole centre of interest in the midst of a nature utterly dead and
utterly unrealised by the artist; but this is not how we feel with Gilliat; we feel that he
is opposed by a "dark coalition of forces," that an "immense animosity" surrounds him; we are
the witnesses of the terrible warfare that he wages with "the silent inclemency of phenomena
going their own way, and the great general law, implacable and passive:" "a conspiracy of the
indifferency of things" is against him.  There is not one interest on the reef, but two.  Just
as we recognise Gilliat for the hero, we recognise, as implied by this indifferency of things,
this direction of forces to some purpose outside our purposes, yet another character who may
almost take rank as the villain of the novel, and the two face up to one another blow for blow,
feint for feint, until, in the storm, they fight it epically out, and Gilliat remains the victor;
- a victor, however, who has still to encounter the octopus.  I need say nothing of the gruesome,
repulsive excellence of that famous scene; it will be enough to remind the reader that Gilliat
is in pursuit of a crab when he is himself assaulted by the devil fish, and that this, in its
way, is the last touch to the inner significance of the book; here, indeed, is the true position
of man in the universe.

But in LES TRAVAILLEURS, with all its strength, with all its eloquence, with all the beauty
and fitness of its main situations, we cannot conceal from ourselves that there is a thread
of something that will not bear calm scrutiny.  There is much that is disquieting about the
storm, admirably as it begins.  I am very doubtful whether it would be possible to keep the
boat from foundering in such circumstances, by any amount of breakwater and broken rock.  I
do not understand the way in which the waves are spoken of, and prefer just to take it as a
loose way of speaking, and pass on.  And lastly, how does it happen that the sea was quite
calm next day?  Is this great hurricane a piece of scene-painting after all? And when we have
forgiven Gilliat's prodigies of strength (although, in soberness, he reminds us more of Porthos
in the Vicomte de Bragelonne than is quite desirable), what is to be said to his suicide, and
how are we to condemn in adequate terms that unprincipled avidity after effect, which tells
us that the sloop disappeared over the horizon, and the head under the water, at one and the
same moment?  Monsieur Hugo may say what he will, but we know better; we know very well that
they did not; a thing like that raises up a despairing spirit of opposition in a man's readers;
they give him the lie fiercely, as they read.  Lastly, we have here already some beginning
of that curious series of English blunders, that makes us wonder if there are neither proof-sheets
nor judicious friends in the whole of France, and affects us sometimes with a sickening uneasiness
as to what may be our own exploits when we touch upon foreign countries and foreign tongues.
It is here that we shall find the famous "first of the fourth," and many English words that
may be comprehensible perhaps in Paris.  It is here that we learn that "laird" in Scotland
is the same title as "lord" in England.  Here, also, is an account of a Highland soldier's
equipment, which we recommend to the lovers of genuine fun.

In L'HOMME QUI RIT, it was Hugo's object to 'denounce' (as he would say himself) the aristocratic
principle as it was exhibited in England; and this purpose, somewhat more unmitigatedly satiric
than that of the two last, must answer for much that is unpleasant in the book.  The repulsiveness
of the scheme of the story, and the manner in which it is bound up with impossibilities and
absurdities, discourage the reader at the outset, and it needs an effort to take it as seriously
as it deserves.  And yet when we judge it deliberately, it will be seen that, here again, the
story is admirably adapted to the moral.  The constructive ingenuity exhibited throughout is
almost morbid.  Nothing could be more happily imagined, as a REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM of the aristocratic
principle, than the adventures of Gwynplaine, the itinerant mountebank, snatched suddenly out
of his little way of life, and installed without preparation as one of the hereditary legislators
of a great country.  It is with a very bitter irony that the paper, on which all this depends,
is left to float for years at the will of wind and tide.  What, again, can be finer in conception
than that voice from the people heard suddenly in the House of Lords, in solemn arraignment
of the pleasures and privileges of its splendid occupants?  The horrible laughter, stamped
for ever "by order of the king" upon the face of this strange spokesman of democracy, adds
yet another feature of justice to the scene; in all time, travesty has been the argument of
oppression; and, in all time, the oppressed might have made this answer: "If I am vile, is
it not your system that has made me so?" This ghastly laughter gives occasion, moreover, for
the one strain of tenderness running through the web of this unpleasant story: the love of
the blind girl Dea, for the monster.  It is a most benignant providence that thus harmoniously
brings together these two misfortunes; it is one of those compensations, one of those afterthoughts
of a relenting destiny, that reconcile us from time to time to the evil that is in the world;
the atmosphere of the book is purified by the presence of this pathetic love; it seems to be
above the story somehow, and not of it, as the full moon over the night of some foul and feverish
city.

