THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 19, No. 548.] SATURDAY, MAY 26, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

This handsome structure has lately been completed, and was opened on Easter Monday last, April
24, by their Majesties and the Court passing over with suitable ceremony. This was a gala day
for Staines and its vicinity; for, independently of the enthusiasm awakened by the visit of
the popular Sovereign, the completion of so useful and ornamental a fabric must have been an
occasion of no ordinary interest to every inhabitant of the district.

The programme, as the French would say, of the day's fête has been so recently given in the
"chronicles of the times," that we need not repeat it. A few descriptive particulars of the
Bridge, from The Times Journal, may be found to possess a more permanent value:--

    "It consists of three very flat segmental arches of granite. The
    middle arch of 74 feet span, and the two side arches of 66 feet
    each; besides two side arches of 10 feet each for the
    towing-paths, and six brick arches of 20 feet span each, two on
    the Surrey side, and four on the Middlesex side, to allow the
    floods to pass off. The whole is surmounted by a plain, bold
    cornice, and block parapet of granite, with pedestal for the
    lamps, and a neat toll-house. The approaches to the Bridge on
    either side form gentle curves of easy ascent. The cost of the
    Bridge and approaches has been about 41,000l. The appearance of
    the whole is very light and elegant. This is owing chiefly to
    the slight dimensions of the piers, which are smaller in
    proportion to the span of the arches they support than those of
    any other bridge in England; but this slight appearance does
    not, we understand, detract in any degree from their strength,
    or from the durability of the superincumbent structure."

From the same authority we gather this circumstantial account of the Bridges erected at Staines
from the year 1262:

    "The first erection mentioned in the archives of Staines, was a
    wooden bridge, said to have been erected in the year 1262; it
    was constructed of piles of oak driven into the bed of the river
    and covered with planks. We hear of no new erection from that
    period down to the year 1794; but from that year to the present,
    there have been not less than four new bridges in succession,
    and on nearly the same site. In the year 1794 and 1795, a new
    bridge, of three semicircular arches of stone, from the design
    of the celebrated Paul Sandby, was erected, but, from some
    defect in its construction, it lasted only five years, when it
    was replaced by a very elegant bridge of one arch, of 180 feet
    span, of cast iron, from the design of Mr. Thomas Wilson, the
    architect of the celebrated bridge over the river Weir, at
    Sunderland. The design was attributed to the noted author of the
    Rights of Man; but the arch designed by him was cast in the
    year 1790, by Messrs. Walkers, at Rotherham, whence it was
    brought to London, and erected at the bowling-green of the
    Yorkshire Stingo public-house, where it was exhibited to the
    public; Paine not being able to defray the expense, the arch was
    taken down and carried back to Rotherham; part of it was
    afterwards used in the Sunderland bridge, and part, it is
    supposed, in the Staines bridge. This last, like its immediate
    predecessor, was not destined to last long, for it had scarcely
    been opened one month, when it was found necessary to close it
    to the public, the arch having sunk in a very alarming degree.
    His late Majesty King George the Third was said to have been
    among the last to pass over it. In this emergency the late Mr.
    Rennie was consulted, who pronounced the bridge altogether
    dangerous, in consequence of the weakness of the abutments. No
    alternative remained but to remove the iron bridge entirely, and
    patch up the old wooden bridge until a new one of wood was
    built. That bridge, which is the present old bridge, continued
    to stand, with various repairs and alterations, until the year
    1828, when, in consequence of the decay of the piles, and the
    continual heavy expenses required to uphold it, the
    Commissioners determined to build a new one of more durable
    materials. Messrs. Rennie were therefore applied to for designs,
    and a bill was brought into Parliament to authorize the
    Commissioners to raise funds. The works were commenced in the
    spring of 1829, and on the 14th of September following the first
    stone was laid by their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of
    Clarence (their present Majesties). Since then, the works have
    been carried on to their present completion under the direction
    of Mr. G. Rennie and Mr. Brown, the superintendents, and Messrs.
    Jolliffe and Banks, the contractors."

The Engraving is from a Sketch by our obliging Windsor Correspondent: it was taken from the
old bridge, whence the spectator enjoys a delightful view of Windsor Castle, through the centre
arch of the new fabric.

By the way, we noticed the project of this new stone bridge, in connexion with our Engraving
of the new church at Staines, in vol. xii. of The Mirror, August 30, 1828.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WRECK.

(FOR THE MIRROR.)

  No mare, no more, o'er the dark blue sea,
    Will the gallant vessel bound,
  Fearless and proud as the warrior's plume
    At the trumpet's startling sound;
  No more will her banner assert its claim
    To empire on the foam,
  And the sailors cheer as the thunder rolls
    From the guns of their wave-girt home!

  Her white sails gleam'd like the sunny dawn
    On the brow of the sapphire sky,
  And her thunder echoed along the cliffs,
    Awaking the seamew's cry;
  Oh! it was glorious to see her glide
    Triumphantly over the sea,
  With her blue flag fluttering in the wind,
    The symbol of victory.

  But she lies forlorn in the breakers now,
    Her stately masts are gone,
  And cold are the hearts of the dauntless crew
    That yielded their swords to none;
  The gun is hush'd in her lofty sides,
    And the flute on her silent deck;
  Alas! that a queenly form like hers
    Should ever have been a wreck!

  Thus Hope's illusions droop away
    From the heart which their beauty won,
  And leave it forlorn as the gallant ship,
    Ere its summer of life is begun.
  It is peopled with lovely images,
    As o'er the sea it glides,
  But wreck'd is its deep idolatry
    On the dark and stormy tides.
    Deal.           G.R.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARBALEST OF ROBIN HOOD.

(TO THE EDITOR.)

In No. 538, of The Mirror, is described an elegant Cross-bow, and a desire expressed for information
where such things are now to be seen. I have lived many years in Yorkshire, and have seen several
kinds of these bows at Kirklees Hall, the seat of Sir George Armitage, a few miles from Huddersfield.
Amongst those bows I saw one, at least six feet long; but some of them were not more than two
or three feet in length. There were also a variety of weapons of war, with helmets, and some
curious boots, which buttoned on the leg from top to the bottom, and had wooden soles. They
were then kept in an attic on the top of the leads over the hall. Many of these relics are
said to have belonged to the famous "Robin Hood," who lies buried in the park; the remains
of the ancient grave-stone having been surrounded with a handsome iron railing, by the late
Sir George Armitage; in the wall is an old inscription on brass; it is situated in a very gloomy
place. Not far distant from his grave are the remains of a Nunnery, and a burial-ground, with
tombs in it; but I could find no date, either in the house or on these tombs. One of the tombs
has this inscription round its edge:

    "Sweet Jesus of Nazareth, show mercy to Elizabeth Stainton, late
    Prioress of this place."

If an intelligent person were to call at the Hall, he would be able to gather much information
of an authentic nature respecting Robin Hood.[1]

    [1] We hope this note may meet the eye of some of our Yorkshire
    correspondents.

JOHN BATEMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS, FOUND IN THE ALBUM OF A DELIA CRUSCAN POET.

(FOR THE MIRROR.)

THE HUMMING-BIRD.

BY T. MOORE, ESQ.

  Thou winged gem, whose starlike splendour
    Gleams on the bosom of the rose,
  I lore thy light when skies are tender,
    And winds are wandering to repose.
  The Grecian lute, the Moorish song,
    And Crockford's home, with all that's in it,
  May challenge fame from many a throng,
    But thou, alone, fair bird, canst win it!

  I've often watch'd thy plumage glancing
    So evanescent in thy bower,
  And heard thy silver voice entrancing
    Soothe me, as music soothes the flower.
  Although diminutive as me,
    Thy song is sweeter, who can doubt it?
  So, as I cannot sing like thee,
    I'll break my lute, and live without it.

  G.R.C.

THE SKYLARK.

BY L.E.L.

  Thou minstrel of the sunny air,
    Thy vocal fount is rich with song,
  And fragrant breezes softly bear
    Its silver melody along.

  I love to hear thy liquid note
    When bees are humming on the rose,
  And in their sapphire ocean float
    The stars prophetic of repose.

  Thou feel'st the sunny influence
    Like Memnon's fabled lyre of old,
  And wanderest in the beam intense
    Which turns the liquid air to gold.

  The spirit's bright imaginings
    Ne'er soar'd to loftier spheres than thee,
  And if I had, thy fairy wings,
    Afar from earthly haunts I'd flee.

  Insipid are the weekly themes
    Of ----'s imbecile review,
  Whose page with adulation teems,
    And makes me "beautifully blue."

  But cockney praise is ebbing fast,
    And Sappho's lute has lost its power,
  And surely my career is past
    Like Summer's brightest, loveliest flower.

  Arcades ambo, Moore and me
    Are Delia Crusca's sweetest doves,
  And ours too is the poetry
    Which meditative beauty loves.

  Sweet bird, farewell! and be it thine
    To thrill the blue air with thy song;
  But fame will wreathe this brow of mine,
    If I am right, and Pope is wrong.

G.R.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESTIC LIFE IN AMERICA.

(IN A LETTER FROM A CORRESPONDENT AT CINCINNATI.)

This town is far superior to our late place of sojourn, Pittsburgh, being spacious and clean,
with handsome houses and wood for fuel. Pittsburgh, on the contrary, is dirty and confined,
abounding in iron works burning coal, which gives forth a denser smoke than English coal. The
houses in this place, when we visited it in 1818, were mostly of wood; these have been in general
removed on wheels drawn by oxen and horses, and placed in the suburbs, whence they are now
removing once more. Here are four markets well supplied with the necessaries, and even the
luxuries, of life, including almost everything you can think of, and many things which you
have never thought of. Apple butter, for instance, is one of the latter, and is made by stewing
apples in new cider, after it has been boiled down to one-third of its bulk. It is sold at
6-1/4 cts. per quart, and is very delicious. The fruits of this country are abundant: apples
are excellent, and in profusion; peaches are plentiful in most seasons, but sometimes totally
fail; grapes grow wild and tame, i.e. cultivated or imported; cherries are not very good, and
dearer than at Pittsburgh; pears, strawberries, and raspberries are not so choice as with you;
quinces are plentiful and fine; wild plums perfume the whole house, like jessamine or mignionette,
and are excellent for pies and tarts. The persimon is a fruit to which you are a stranger;
it may be ranked with the plums, but has four stones, and is not fit to eat till bitten by
the frost, when its austere and astringent taste disappears, and it becomes nearly transparent,
and as rich and sweet as Guava jelly. The May-apple, or Mandrake, a wild fruit, is a favourite
with our young folks; it grows on a single-steemed plant, usually one foot high, and is about
the size of a plum, but with seeds, and in taste resembling a highly flavoured pear. The custard-apple,
or paw-paw, is my favourite, and my boys go with me into the woods to gather them when ripe.
In the summer, water melons, musk melons, nutmeg melons, and Cantaloupes may be seen in large
heaps in the market, or in carts or wagons, at 6-1/4 to 25 and 50 cts. each, some weighing 40 lbs.

Egg-plants, which you have seen as curiosities, are here brought to market; some of them of
purple colour, are as large as a child's carpet-ball: they are sliced and fried in butter,
and I am told have the flavour of fried oysters. Cucumbers are unfortunately superabundant,
and the free use of them induces a variety of diseases which are attributed to the climate.
Squashes, cimolins, and cushas, are gourds which are mashed up with butter like turnips; pumpkins
of this country are very sweet, and make delicious pies, or rather cheesecakes; cranberries
are brought from a distance, and pine-apples are not very expensive, being brought up the river
from Bermuda.

Among the natural curiosities of the country, are the Stone Mountain in Carolina, which may
rank in antiquity with Stonehenge. It is remarkable for a circular wall of stone of great thickness,
probably built by a people distinct from the present race of Indians, who are quite incapable
of erecting any building except a wigwam, or a pile of loose stones over a grave. Next is the
Kentucky Cavern, or as it is called, on account of its magnitude, the Mammoth Cave. I have
an account before me of its being explored by a party in 1826, who penetrated into this gloomy,
though spacious, hollow for fifteen miles, and were prevented from proceeding from extreme
fatigue; they found the names of persons written at the farthest part. There are numbers of
rooms as they are called, which are yet unexplored. In one of these, a few miles from the entrance,
there was discovered many years since, a female figure sitting with a mat wrapped round her
shoulders; she was quite dried to a mummy, and has for many years been exhibited in a caravan,
through the United States.

The river Ohio is here a quarter of a mile wide, and, as there is no bridge, the traffic into
Kentucky is accommodated with steam ferry boats. Newport and Covington opposite, are pretty
objects to look at from this side, but will not bear a nearer inspection. Big Bone Lick, where
abundance of Mammoth bones have been discovered, is not far hence. Mr. Bullock of the London
Museum is here, and has at the Lick discovered many rare specimens of bones, amongst which
is a mammoth's head, with evidence of its having been furnished with a trunk, and of course
having been an elephant of immense size. He has also found hoofs of horses with their bones
in a fossil state, proving that the horse has been indigenous. The horses in this town being
a mixture from those of South America, where they are wild--are of various colours. Some are
brown and white, like pointer dogs, others are spotted like Danish dogs, and some with curled
hair. I saw one which was white as far us the fore-quarter, and the rest sorel.

An eye-witness has just related to me the following, which lately occured in New Harmony:

    A snake about two feet long, was seen to enter the hole
    inhabited by a crawfish,[2] from which he soon retreated,
    followed by the rightful tenant, who stopped in defensive
    attitude at the mouth of his habitation, raising his claws in
    defiance. The snake turned quickly round, and seized the head of
    the crawfish, as if to swallow him; but the crawfish soon put an
    end to the conflict by clasping the snake's neck with his claws,
    and severing the head completely from his body. This may appear
    marvellous; but Audubon tells a story of a rattle-snake chasing
    and over-taking a squirrel, which folks in America doubt.

    [2] Is not this a species of land-crab?--ED. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

POTTERY.[3]

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 284.)

CHINA.

The name China, by which the ware that I am about to describe is known in England, shows sufficiently
the country from which we have received it. The term porcelain, which is applied to it on the
continent of Europe, is Italian; porcellana being in that language the name of those univalve
shells forming the genus cypraea of the conchologist, which have a high arched back like that
of the hog (porco, Ital.), and are remarkable for the white, smooth, vitreous glossiness of
the surface about the mouth of the shell, and sometimes, as in the common cowry (Cypraea moneta),
over the whole surface.

    [3] By Mr. A. Aikin, in Trans. Soc. Arts.

The introduction of the Chinese porcelain soon excited a strong desire in the various countries
of Europe to imitate it; but as the establishment of experimental manufactories for this purpose
required the expenditure of considerable sums, and at a risk beyond the means of private persons,
it is chiefly to the munificence of the sovereigns of Europe that the public are indebted for
the first steps made in this interesting art. In Germany, chemists and mineralogists were set
to work; the latter to seek for the most appropriate raw materials, and the former to purify
and to combine them in the most advantageous proportions. The French government adopted the
very sensible plan of instructing some of the Jesuit missionaries, who at that time had penetrated
to the court of China, and into most of the provinces of that empire, to collect on the spot
specimens of the materials employed by the Chinese themselves, together with the particulars
of the process. The precise result thus obtained is not known; for as a considerable rivalry
existed between the different royal manufactories of this ware, the most valuable information
would of course be kept as secret as possible.

Of the European manufactories of porcelain, that established at Miessen, near Dresden, by Augustus
Elector of Saxony and King of Poland, in the early part of the 17th century, was the first
that aspired to a competition with the Chinese. In compactness of texture and infusibility
it was reckoned perfect a hundred years ago. It is not quite so white as some of the French
and English porcelains, but is inferior to none in its painting, gilding, and other decorations.

The French royal manufactory at Sevrès, near Paris, has been for several years in a gradually
advancing state, with regard to the whiteness, compactness, and infusibility of the body, the
elegance of the forms, the brilliancy of the colours, the elaborateness of the drawing, and
the superb enrichments of the gilding. The private manufactories of porcelain in France imitate
and approach more or less near to the royal establishment.

At Berlin and at Vienna are royal porcelain manufactories in high esteem, as well as in some
of the smaller states of Germany.

BRITISH PORCELAIN.

The first manufactories of porcelain in England were those at Bow, and at Chelsea, near London.
In these, however, nothing but soft porcelain was made. This was a mixture of white clay and
fine white sand from Alum bay, in the Isle of Wight, to which such a proportion of pounded
glass was added as, without causing the ware to soften so as to lose its form, would give it
when exposed to a full red heat a semi-transparency resembling that of the fine porcelain of
China. The Chelsea ware, besides bearing a very imperfect similarity in body to the Chinese,
admitted only of a very fusible lead glaze; and in the taste of its patterns, and in the style
of their execution, stood as low perhaps as any on the list. The china works at Derby come,
I believe, the next in date; then those of Worcester, established in 1751: and the most modern
are those of Coalport, in Shropshire; of the neighbourhood of Newcastle, in Staffordshire,
and in other parts of that county.

The porcelain clay used at present in all the English works is obtained in Cornwall, by pounding
and washing over the gray disintegrated granite which occurs in several parts of that county:
by this means the quartz and mica are got rid of, and the clay resulting from the decomposition
of the felspar is procured in the form of a white, somewhat gritty powder. This clay is not
fusible by the highest heat of our furnaces, though the felspar, from the decomposition of
which it is derived, forms a spongy milk-white glass, or enamel, at a low white heat. But felspar,
when decomposed by the percolation of water, while it forms a constituent of granite, loses
the potash, which is one of its ingredients to the amount of about 15 per cent, and with it
the fusibility that this latter substance imparts.

The siliceous ingredient is calcined flint; and in some of the porcelain works, (particularly,
I believe, those at Worcester,) the soapstone from the Lizard-point, in Cornwall, is employed.
These are all the avowed materials; but there is little doubt that the alkalies, or alkaline
earths, either pure or in combination, are also used, in order to dispose the other ingredients
to assume that state of semi-fusion characteristic of porcelain.

(The principal processes are) the grinding and due mixture of the ingredients, in order to
obtain a mass sufficiently plastic; the forming this mass on the wheel; the subsequent drying
of the ware; the first firing, by which it is brought to the state of biscuit; the application
of the firmer colours occasionally on the surface of the biscuit; the dipping the biscuit in
the glaze; the second firing, by which the glaze is vitrified; the pencilling in of the more
tender colours on the surface of the glaze; and the third and last firing that is given to
the porcelain.

It is not for me to determine which of our English porcelains is the best; probably, indeed,
one will be found superior in hardness, another in whiteness, a third in the thinness and evenness
of the glaze, a fourth in the form of the articles, a fifth in the design, and a sixth in the
colours. In hardness and in fusibility, they are probably all inferior to the Dresden and to
the Sevres porcelain; for pieces in biscuit and in white glaze, from both these manufactories,
are imported in considerable quantities, in order to be painted and finished here. But it is
equally certain, that the last ten years have seen the commencement, and, in part, the completion,
of such improvements in this fabric, as will probably place the English porcelains on an equality
with the best of the continental European ones.

Advantage has recently been taken of the semi-transparency of porcelain biscuit to form it
into plates, and to delineate upon it some very beautiful copies of landscapes and other drawings,
by so adapting the various thicknesses of the plate as to produce, when held between the eye
and the light, the effects of light and shadow in common drawings. The invention originated
in the ingenuity of our French neighbours.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER

IMPROVEMENT OF LANCASHIRE.

The west of England has considerably the advantage over the eastern side of the island. One
way or another nature did much more for it. It is true, that the eastern side was civilized
much earlier; yet human ingenuity and industry have of late years been much more successfully
employed in turning the gifts of nature to the best possible account. Ireland and America are
customers, for whom, though they were long in coming, it was worth while to wait. After all,
Lancashire is the most remarkable and characteristic feature in the comparison. From being
among the most backward parts of England, this county has worked its way into the front rank.
The contrast between its condition up to the middle of the last century, and the astonishing
spectacle which it exhibits at present, belongs to the transformation which a hundred years
create in a newly settled country like America, far more than to the gradual improvements and
changes of an old English county.

It would be curious to analyze the concurrent causes, and marshal the successive steps, by
which Lancashire has advanced;--not only succeeding in appropriating to itself a leading interest
in the creative inventions of Watt and Arkwright, but connecting its name in honourable alliance
with literature and science. The very circumstances from which a contrary presumption would
originally have been drawn, have (singularly enough) principally contributed to its extraordinary
progress. Lancashire owes the canals, by which the commercial thoroughfare of that end of England
has been turned from the Humber to the Mersey, to the enterprise of a Peer. It owes the docks,
which have about them almost a Roman presentiment of future greatness, to the spirit of a Corporation.
It owes the taste and accomplishments, by which the character of its wealth has been raised
above the drudgery and fanaticism of money-getting, almost entirely to the zeal of a few Dissenters.
The name of Governor Clinton is not so pre-eminently united with the canal policy of America,
as is the name of the Duke of Bridgewater with the canals of England. He staked his last shilling
on the chance of thus cutting out an inland north-west passage to the Atlantic. The corporation
of Liverpool, by an enlightened application of their vast resources, have accelerated, consolidated,
and secured the realization, of every expectation and contingency which fortune threw in their
way. They have hastened, not to say, anticipated, events. There can be as little doubt of the
effect which the light radiating from the assemblage of Priestley, Wakefield, Aikin, &c. at
Warrington; from the presence of Percival, Henry, Ferriar, and Dalton, at Manchester; and from
that of Roscoe and Currie at Liverpool, spread over their circle. The literary attainments
and cultivation of the manufacturers and merchants of Lancashire, as a body, seem otherwise
likely long to have lagged behind their general powers of understanding, and their real station
in society.--Edinburgh Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENNUI OF FASHION.

