OUR YOUNG FOLKS.

                   An Illustrated Magazine

                      FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

VOL. I.                  JANUARY, 1865.

Harriet Beecher Stowe.

THE VOLUNTEER'S THANKSGIVING.

    The last days of November, and everything so green!
    A finer bit of country my eyes have never seen.
    'Twill be a thing to tell of, ten years or twenty hence,
    How I came down to Georgia at Uncle Sam's expense.

    Four years ago this winter, up at the district school,
    I wrote all day, and ciphered, perched on a white-pine stool;
    And studied in my atlas the boundaries of the States,
    And learnt the wars with England, the history and the dates.

    Then little I expected to travel in such haste
    Along the lines my fingers and fancy often traced,
    To bear a soldier's knapsack, and face the cannon's mouth,
    And help to save for Freedom the lovely, perjured South.

    That red, old-fashioned school-house! what winds came sweeping through
    Its doors from bald Monadnock, and from the mountains blue
    That slope off south and eastward beyond the Merrimack!
    O pleasant Northern river, your music calls me back

    To where the pines are humming the slow notes of their psalm
    Around a shady farm-house, half hid within their calm,
    Reflecting in the river a picture not so bright
    As these verandahed mansions,--but yet my heart's delight.

    They're sitting at the table this clear Thanksgiving noon;
    I smell the crispy turkey, the pies will come in soon,--
    The golden squares of pumpkin, the flaky rounds of mince,
    Behind the barberry syrups, the cranberry and the quince.

    Be sure my mouth does water,--but then I am content
    To stay and do the errand on which I have been sent.
    A soldier mustn't grumble at salt beef and hard-tack:
    We'll have a grand Thanksgiving if ever we get back!

    I'm very sure they'll miss me at dinner-time to-day,
    For I was good at stowing their provender away.
    When mother clears the table, and wipes the platters bright,
    She'll say, "I hope my baby don't lose his appetite!"

    But oh! the after-dinner! I miss that most of all,--
    The shooting at the targets, the jolly game of ball,
    And then the long wood-ramble! We climbed, and slid, and ran,--
    We and the neighbor-children,--and one was Mary Ann,

    Who (as I didn't mention) sat next to me at school:
    Sometimes I had to show her the way to work the rule
    Of Ratio and Proportion, and do upon her slate
    Those long, hard sums that puzzle a merry maiden's pate.

    I wonder if they're going across the hills to-day;
    And up the cliffs I wonder what boy will lead the way;
    And if they'll gather fern-leaves and checkerberries red,
    And who will put a garland of ground-pine on her head.

    O dear! the air grows sultry: I'd wish myself at home
    Were it a whit less noble, the cause for which I've come.
    Four years ago a school-boy; as foolish now as then!
    But greatly they don't differ, I fancy,--boys and men.

    I'm just nineteen to-morrow, and I shall surely stay
    For Freedom's final battle, be it until I'm gray,
    Unless a Southern bullet should take me off my feet.--
    There's nothing left to live for, if Rebeldom should beat;

    For home and love and honor and freedom are at stake,
    And life may well be given for our dear Union's sake;
    So reads the Proclamation, and so the sermon ran;
    Do ministers and people feel it as soldiers can?

    When will it all be ended? 'Tis not in youth to hold
    In quietness and patience, like people grave and old:
    A year? three? four? or seven?--O then, when I return,
    Put on a big log, mother, and let it blaze and burn,

    And roast your fattest turkey, bake all the pies you can,
    And, if she isn't married, invite in Mary Ann!
    Hang flags from every window! we'll all be glad and gay,
    For Peace will light the country on that Thanksgiving Day.

Lucy Larcom.

THUMBLING:

A STORY FOR CHILDREN.

The Introduction.

DEAR OLD FRIEND:--We were all sitting round the fire the other evening after dinner. The evening
paper had been read and explained, and the Colonel was now nursing his wounded arm, and musingly
smoking his old camp-pipe, browned to a rich mahogany in many marches among the sands of Folly
Island, through the rose-gardens of Florida, and over the hills and valleys of battle-worn
old Virginia; I myself, who have never yet taken kindly to pipes,--though I suppose I shall
have to ere many days,--was dreaming over a fragrant Cabañas; Madame was hard at work over
a pile of the week's stockings; and the children taking their last frolic about the parlor,
preparatory to their unwilling Good-night and fearful departure to the hated regions above
stairs;--when our neat-handed Bridget entered the room, staggering under the weight of the
monthly parcel of French books, just arrived by express.

You, who live where you can see all the new books as soon as they appear, can hardly imagine
the eagerness with which we poor country people, far away from publishing-houses and foreign
bookstores, welcome the sight of this monthly parcel. We passed over the green and yellow duodecimos,
glancing at Féval, About, Berthel, Sand, and the rest, each looking for his particular favorite
among the authors, when the children, whose busy fingers had helped to untie the knots and
unwrap the packages, and who were rummaging with as much eagerness as we, suddenly discovered
a sober octavo, that seemed to promise well; for, after a hasty look at it, they carried it
away to the library-table, and examined it, for a time, in profound silence. After a while,
one little boy spoke out:--

"O, papa! this must be a real old-fashioned fairy-book, for it is full of pictures of fairies,
and knights, and giants, and dwarfs, and dragons! Do read it to us, please!"

Now, my dear friend, you know that my youngsters have a most insatiate appetite for, and a
most thorough appreciation of, real fairy stories, as they call them. But they are pitiless
judges; they can hardly tire of Blue Beard, and Beauty and the Beast, and the Arabian Nights;
but they turn up their little noses in contempt at the moral fairy stories, which some of their
kind aunts have attempted to impose upon them. I myself have a secret dislike for those sham
stories which deceive you into believing you are hearing about real fairies and giants, only
to tell you, at the end, that the good fairy is no other than Cheerfulness, Industry, or some
sister virtue, and that the giant is Luxury, Ill-Temper, or some kindred vice. Yet the children
are severer critics than I. They will have nothing whatever to do with the good fairies who
have no magical power, and who live in their own little bodies; nor with the wicked giants
who, they can see at once, have none of the attributes of the giants of old. They swallow the
pill once, thinking it a sugar-plum; but after finding it to be a pill, no amount of sugar
coating will make it anything but medicine. And all boys and girls are alike in this, and will
be so, let us hope, to the end of time. Even we old fellows recall those old-time stories with
something of the same awe-struck admiration, and something of the same unquestioning belief,
with which we listened to them, I don't know how many years ago. We sneer at the improbabilities
and inconsistencies of modern fiction; but who thinks of being startled at the charming incongruities,
the bold but fascinating impossibilities, of Cinderella, and Aladdin, and Puss in Boots? Don't
we in our heart of hearts still believe that, a long time ago, before men grew too wicked for
them, the gentle fairies really lived in their jewelled palaces under ground, and came out,
now and then, to protect the youth and beauty they loved from giants, and dragons, and malicious
genii, and all manner of evil things? I declare I should be ashamed of myself if I did not;
and I am sure that none of us, who are good for anything, have altogether lost that old belief;
and when we look back at those days of young romance, and remember the thrill with which we
read of Bluebeard's punishment, and Beauty's reward, we feel that it would be better for us
if they had more of that old childlike faith. And so I encourage my youngsters to read and
listen to, over and over again, the same old stories that, when I was a boy, warmed my young
imagination, and to eschew the dismal allegories with which well-meaning but short-sighted
writers try to supply the places of Jack the Giant-killer and all his marvellous family. And
so I was almost as pleased as the children, when I saw, from its quaint and grotesque pictures,
that their treasure-trove was really a book of real old-fashioned fairy stories.

Of course, nothing would do but that the bedtime should be put off, and that I should read
one, at least, of the stories to the young folks. As my selection won their unqualified admiration,
and they are, as I have said, good critics, I send it to you for the benefit of your little
people. Your studies in the Norse languages have perhaps made you familiar with the original
of it; but I think it will be new to most boys and girls.

Your old chum,

PHILIP.

The Story.

I.

Once upon a time there was a peasant, who had three sons, Peter, Paul, and John. Peter was
tall, stout, rosy and good-natured, but a stupid fellow; Paul was thin, yellow, envious, and
surly; while Jack was full of mischief, pale as a girl, but so small that he could stow himself
away in his father's jack-boots; and so he was called Thumbling.

All the wealth the poor peasant had was his family; and so poor was he, that it was a very
feast-day in his cottage if only a penny happened to jingle there. Food was very high then,
and wages low; so, as soon as the three boys were big enough to work for themselves, the good
father was obliged to urge them to leave the cottage where they were born, and to go out into
the world to seek their fortune.

"In foreign lands," he said, "across the sea, bread could always be had, even if it took hard
work to get it; while at home, in spite of all their toil, they were never sure of a crust
for the morrow."

Now it happened that, not a mile from the woodman's hut, there was a magnificent wooden palace,
with twenty balconies and six beautiful windows. And directly opposite these windows there
sprang up, one fine summer's night, without the least warning, an immense oak, whose leaves
and branches were so thickly clustered together, that one could hardly see in the king's house.
It was no easy task to cut down this enormous tree, for it was so tough that it turned the
edge of every axe that was wielded against it; and for every branch that was lopped off, or
root that was plucked up, two instantly grew in its place. In vain did the king promise three
bags of golden crowns to any one who would rid him of his troublesome neighbor; it was of no
use at all; and he had at last to light his palace with candles, in broad daylight.

Nor was this the poor king's only trouble. Although the surrounding country was so rich in
springs and brooks, that they frequently gushed out of the solid rock itself, yet in the royal
gardens they couldn't get a drop of water. In summer time, the king and all his court had to
wash their hands in beer, and their faces with mead, which was not convenient, if it was pleasant.
So that at last the king promised broad lands, heaps of money, and the title of Lord Marquis,
to anybody who would dig a well in his court-yard deep enough to give a supply of water all
the year round. In spite, however, of these magnificent promises, no one could get the reward;
for the palace was on a lofty hill, and after digging a foot under ground there was a solid
granite rock, as hard as flint.

Now these two troubles disturbed the king so much, that he couldn't get them out of his head.
Although he was not a very great monarch, yet he was as obstinate as the Emperor of China himself.
So one fine day he hit upon this wise plan. He caused an enormous placard to be prepared, with
the royal arms magnificently displayed at the top; and in it he promised, to whoever would
cut down the troublesome oak-tree, and dig him a satisfactory well, no less rewards than the
hand of his only daughter, and the half of his kingdom. This placard was posted up on the palace-gate,
and copies all over the kingdom. Now, as the princess was as beautiful as the morning, and
the half of a kingdom by no means to be despised, the offer was enough to tempt any one; and
there shortly came to the palace, from Sweden and Norway, from Denmark and Russia, from the
continent and from the islands, a host of sturdy suitors, with axe on shoulder and pick in
hand, ready to undertake the task. But all that they hacked and hewed, picked and hollowed,
was labor lost. At every stroke the oak grew harder, and the granite no softer; so that the
most persevering had at last to give up in despair.

II.

One fine day, about this time, when everybody all over the land was talking of this wonderful
affair, and everybody's head was full of it, our three brothers began to ask each other why,
since their father wished them to do so, they shouldn't go out into the world to seek their
fortune. They didn't hope for any great success, nor did they expect the hand of the princess,
or the half of the kingdom. All they wished for was a good place and a kind master; and who
could say they wouldn't find them both somewhere at the court? So they decided to try their
luck; and after receiving the blessing of their good father, they started off, with stout hearts,
on their way to the king's palace.

Whilst the two older brothers were slowly trudging along, Thumbling scampered up and down the
road like a wild thing, running backwards and forwards like a sportive dog, spying here, there,
and everywhere, and noticing everything that was to be noticed. Nothing was too small for his
sharp little eyes, and he kept constantly stopping his brothers to ask the why and the wherefore
of everything: why the bees dived into the fragrant flower-cups? why the swallows skimmed along
the rivers? why the butterflies zigzagged capriciously along the fields? To all these questions
Peter only answered with a burst of stupid laughter; while the surly Paul shrugged his shoulders,
and crossly bade the little Thumbling hold his tongue, telling him he was an inquisitive little
simpleton.

As they were going along, they came to a dense forest of pines, that covered the crest of a
mountain, on the top of which they heard the sound of a woodman's axe, and the crackling of
branches as they fell to the ground.

"That is a very strange thing," said Thumbling, "to be cutting trees on the top of a mountain
like this."

"It would astonish me very much to find that you were not astonished at everything," answered
Peter, in a sour tone; "everything is wonderful to simpletons. I suppose you never heard of
woodcutters."

"It's all the same to me what you say," said Thumbling; "but I am going to see what is going
on up there."

"Be off with you!" cried Paul; "tire yourself all out, and that will be a good lesson to you,
for wanting to know more than your big brothers."

Thumbling didn't trouble himself much with what his big brothers said, but started for the
place whence the noise seemed to come, and, after much hard climbing and running, he arrived
at the top of the mountain. And what do you suppose he found there? You would never guess,
and so I will tell you. A MAGIC AXE, that all by itself was hacking away at one of the tallest
trees on the mountain.

"Good morning, Mistress Axe," cried Thumbling. "Doesn't it tire you to be chopping all alone
there at that old tree?"

"Many long years I have been waiting for you, my son," replied the axe.

"Very well, ma'am, here I am!" said Thumbling; and without being astonished at anything, he
seized the axe, put it in the stout leather bag he carried over his shoulder, and gayly descended
to overtake his brothers.

"What marvel did Master Moonstruck see up there?" asked Paul, looking at Thumbling with a very
scornful air.

"It was an axe that we heard," answered Thumbling, slyly.

"I could have told you so beforehand," said Peter; "and here you are now, all tired out, for
nothing. You had better stay with us another time."

A little farther along, they came to a place where the road was hollowed with extreme difficulty
out of a mass of solid rock; and here, in the distance, the brothers heard a sharp noise, like
that of iron striking against stone.

"It is very wonderful that anybody should be hammering away at rocks away up there!" remarked
Thumbling.

"Truly," said Paul, "you must have been fledged yesterday! Didn't you ever hear a woodpecker
pecking at the trunk of an old tree?"

"He is right," added Peter, laughing; "it must be a woodpecker. Stay with us, you foolish fellow."

"It's all the same to me," answered Thumbling; "but I am very curious to see what is going
on up there." So he began to climb the rocks on his hands and knees, while his two brothers
trudged along, making as much fun of him as possible.

"Good morning, Mistress Pickaxe," said Thumbling. "Doesn't it tire you to be delving alone
there, hollowing away at that old rock?"

"Many long years I have been waiting for you, my son," answered the pickaxe.

"What miracle did his Worship see this time?" asked Paul, in a surly tone.

"It was a pickaxe that we heard," answered Thumbling, slyly; and he plodded along, without
any more words.

A little farther along, they came to a brook. The water was clear and fresh, and, as the travellers
were thirsty, they all stopped to drink out of the hollows of their hands.

"It is very wonderful," said Thumbling, "that there should be so much water in this little
valley. I should like to see where this brook starts from."

But to this the only answer was from Paul, who said gruffly to his brother, "We shall soon
see this inquisitive fellow climbing up to Heaven, and asking questions of the angels themselves."

"Very well!" says Thumbling; "it's all the same; and I am very curious to see where all this
water comes from."

So saying, he began to follow up the streamlet, in spite of the jeers and scoldings of his
brothers. And lo and behold! the farther he went, smaller and smaller grew the brook, and less
and less the quantity of water. And when he came to the end, what do you think he found? A
simple nut-shell, from the bottom of which a tiny stream of water burst out and sparkled in
the sun.

"Good morning, Mistress Spring," cried Thumbling. "Doesn't it tire you to be gushing away there
all alone in your little corner?"

"Many long years I have been waiting for you, my son," replied the spring.

"Do you know now where the brook starts from?" shouted Peter, as soon as he saw him.

"Yes, brother Peter," replied Thumbling; "it came out of a little hole."

"This boy is too bright to live," grumbled Peter.

But Thumbling quietly said to himself, and rubbed his hands meanwhile, "I have seen what I
wanted to see, and I know what I wanted to know; let those laugh who wish."

III.

Shortly after this, the brothers arrived at the king's palace. The oak was stouter and thicker
than ever; there was no sign of a well in the court-yard; and at the gate of the palace still
hung the imposing placard that promised the hand of the princess, and the half of the kingdom,
to whoever, noble, gentleman, or peasant, should accomplish the two things his Majesty so ardently
desired. Only, as the king was weary of so many fruitless attempts, which had only resulted
in making him more despairing than before, he had ordered a second and smaller placard to be
pasted directly above the large one. On this placard was written, in red letters, the following
terrible words:

"Be it known, by these presents, that, in his inexhaustible goodness, his Majesty, the King,
has deigned to order, that whosoever does not succeed in cutting down the oak, or in digging
the well, shall have his ears promptly stricken off, in order to teach him the first lesson
of wisdom,--TO KNOW HIMSELF."

And, in order that everybody should profit by this wise and prudent counsel, the king had caused
to be nailed around this placard thirty bleeding ears, belonging to the unfortunate fellows
who had proved themselves ignorant of the first lesson of wisdom.

When Peter read this notice, he laughed to himself, twisted his mustaches, looked proudly at
his brawny arms, whose swollen veins looked like so many pieces of blue whipcord, swung his
axe twice around his head, and with one blow chopped off one of the biggest branches of the
enchanted tree. To his horror and dismay, however, there immediately sprang forth two more
branches, each bigger and thicker than the first; and the king's guards thereupon immediately
seized the unlucky woodcutter, and, without any more ado, sliced off both his ears.

"You are an awkward booby, and deserve your punishment," said Paul to his brother. Saying this,
he took his axe, walked slowly around the tree, and, seeing a large root that projected from
the soil, he chopped it off with a single blow. At the same instant, two enormous new roots
broke from the ground; and, wonderful to relate, each one immediately shot out a trunk, thickly
covered with foliage.

"Seize this miserable fellow," shouted the furious king; "and, since he did not profit by the
example of his brother, shave off both his ears, close to his head!"

No sooner said than done. But now Thumbling, undismayed by this double misfortune, stepped
bravely forward to try his fortune.

"Drive this little abortion away," cried the king; "and if he resists, chop off his ears. He
will have the lesson all the same, and will spare us the sight of his stupidity."

"Pardon, gracious Majesty!" interrupted Thumbling. "The king has passed his word, and I have
the right to a trial. It will be time enough to cut off my ears when I fail."

"Away, then, to the trial," said the king, with a heavy sigh; "but be careful that I don't
have your nose cut off to boot."

Thumbling now drew his magic axe from the bottom of his stout leather bag. It was almost as
big as he was, and he had no little difficulty and trouble in standing it up, with the handle
leaning against the enchanted tree. At last, however, all was accomplished; and stepping back
a few steps, he cried out, "Chop! chop!! chop!!!" And lo and behold! the axe began to chop,
hew, hack, now right, now left, and up and down! Trunk, branches, roots, all were speedily
cut to bits. In fact, it only took a quarter of an hour, and yet there was such a heap, a monstrous
heap of wood, that the whole court had nothing else to burn for a whole year.

When the tree was entirely cut down and cleared away, Thumbling approached the king, (who,
in the mean time, had sent for the princess, and caused her to sit down by his side, to see
the wonderful thing,) and, making them both a low bow, said:--

"Is your Majesty entirely satisfied with his faithful subject?"

"Yes, so far so good," answered the king; "but I must have my well, or look out for your ears!"

