    "But when he is baffled in the cause, he hath a reserve,--that
    Venerable Bede, and Gildas, and Foxe in his Acts and Monuments, do
    brand the Britons for wicked men, making them 'as good as Atheists; of
    which gang if this Dinoth were one,' he 'will neither wish the Pope
    such friends, nor envy them to the Protestants.'

    "What needeth this, when he hath got the worst of the cause, to defend
    himself like a pinece with a stink? We read no other character of
    Dinoth, but as of a pious, learned, and prudent man."

Can any of your readers furnish an explanation?

R. BLAKISTON.

Soiled Parchment Deeds.--Having in my possession some old and very dirty parchment deeds, and
other records, now almost illegible from the accumulation of grease, &c., on the surface of
the skins, I am desirous to know if there be any "royal road" to the cleansing and restoration
of these otherwise enduring MSS.?

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Roger Wilbraham, Esq.'s Cheshire Collection.--Can any of your correspondents say where the
original collection made by the above-named gentleman, or a copy of them, referred to in Dr.
Foote Gower's Sketch of the Materials for a Cheshire History, may now be met with?

CESTRIENSIS.

Cambridge and Ireland.--In the first volume of the Pictorial History of England, p. 270., it
is stated that--

    "Martin skins are mentioned in Domesday Book among the commodities
    brought by sea to Chester; and this appears from other authorities to
    have been one of the exports in ancient times from Ireland. Notices are
    also found of merchants from Ireland landing at Cambridge with
    cloths, and exposing their merchandise to sale."

The authority quoted for this statement is Turner, vol. iii. p. 113.

Mr. Turner refers to Gale, vol. ii. p. 482.

I do not know to what work Mr. Turner refers, unless to Gale's Rerum Anglicarum Scriptores
{271} Veteres; on examining this I can find no passage at the page and volume indicated, on
the subject.

Can any of your readers state where it is to be found? It appears remarkable that the merchants
from Ireland should land at the inland town of Cambridge, and it seems a probable conjecture
that Cambridge is a mistake for Cambria.

William of Malmesbury speaks of a commerce between Ireland and the neighbourhood of Chester,
and it seems much more probable that the merchants of Ireland landed in Wales than in Cambridge.

JOHN THRUPP.

Derivation of Celt.--What is the proper derivation of the word celt, as applied to certain
weapons of antiquity? A good authority, in Dr. Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities,
p. 351., obtains the term from--

    "Celtes, an old Latin word for a chisel, probably derived from cælo, to
    engrave."

Mr. Wright (The Celt, Roman, and Saxon, p. 73.) says that Hearne first applied the word to
such implements in bronze, believing them to be "Roman celtes or chisels;" and that--

    "Subsequent writers, ascribing these instruments to the Britons, have
    retained the name, forgetting its origin, and have applied it
    indiscriminately, not only to other implements of bronze, but even to
    the analogous instruments of stone."

And he objects to the term "as too generally implying that things to which it is applied are
Celtic." On the other hand, Dr. Wilson (Prehistoric Annals, p. 129.) prefers to retain the
word, inasmuch as the Welsh etymologists, Owen and Spurrell, furnish an ancient Cambro-British
word celt, a flint stone. M. Worsaae (Primeval Antiq., p. 26.) confines the term to those instruments
of bronze which have a hollow socket to receive a wooden handle; the other forms being called
paalstabs on the Continent. It seems clear that there is no connexion between this word and
the name of the nation (Celtæ); but its true origin may perhaps be elicited by a little discussion
in the pages of "N. & Q."

Rishanger's words are:

    "Rex [Henricus III.] autem, capta Norhamptun., Leycestr. tendens, in ea
    hospitatus est, quam nullus regni præter eum etiam videre,
    prohibentibus quibusdam superstitiose, præsumpsit."--P. 26.

It is also mentioned by Matthew of Westminster. (Vide Bohn's edition, vol. ii. p. 412.) The
statement, that no king before Henry III. had entered the town, is however incorrect, as William
the Conqueror and King John are instances to the contrary.

Can any of your correspondents explain the origin of this superstition, or favour me with any
farther notices respecting it?

It is not unworthy of observation that very many of the royal personages who have visited Leicester,
have been either unfortunate in their lives, or have met with tragical deaths.

We may, however, hope, for the credit of the town, that their misfortunes may be attributed
to other causes, rather than to their presence within its time-hallowed walls.

WM. KELLY.

Leicester.

Burton.--Is there any family of this name who can make out a descent from, or connexion with,
a Mr. John Burton, alderman of Doncaster, who died 1718?

C. J.

The Camera Lucida.--I should feel much obliged to any reader of "N. & Q." who would be kind
enough to answer the following questions, and refer me to any work treating of the handling
and management of the Camera Lucida. I have one made by King of Bristol, and purchased about
thirty years ago: it draws out, like a telescope, in three pieces, each six inches long; and
at full length will give a picture of the dimensions of twenty inches by twelve. The upper
piece is marked from above downwards, thus: at two inches below the lens, "2;" at an inch below
that point, "3;" at half an inch lower, "4;" at half an inch lower still, "5;" half an inch
below the point "5," a "7" is marked; and half an inch below the "7," there is a "10;" at seven-eighths
below this last, "D" is marked. What reference have these nicely graduated points to the distance
of an object from the instrument? Do the figures merely determine the size of the picture to
be taken? How is one to be guided in their use and application to practice?

CARET.

Francis Moore.--Francis Moore was born at Bakewell about the year 1592, and was Proctor of
Lichfield Cathedral at the time of the Great Rebellion. I am anxious to know who were his parents,
and what their place of abode.

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors, Kirton-in-Lindsey.

Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle.--What were the family arms of Dr. John Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle,
who died October 29, 1734? Was he of a Scotch family, and are any of his descendants now living?

RUFUS.

Palace at Enfield.--We read that there was formerly a royal palace at Enfield in Middlesex,
ten miles north from London; and one room still {272} remains in its original state. Can you,
or any of your subscribers, inform me whereabouts in the town it is situated? Also, the date
of erection of the church?

HAZELWOOD.

"Solamen miseris," &c.--Please to state in what author is the following line? No one knows.

    "Solamen miseris socios habuisse doloris."

A CONSTANT READER.

Soke Mills.--Correspondents are requested to communicate the names of "Soke" or Manorial Mills,
to which the suit is still enforced.

S. M.

Second Wife of Mallet.--The second wife of Mallet was Lucy Elstob, a Yorkshire lady, daughter
of a steward of the Earl of Carlisle. Can any of your readers inform me at what place in Yorkshire
her father resided, and where the marriage with Mallet in 1742 took place? She survived her
husband, and lived to the age of eighty years. Where did she die, and what family did Mallet
leave by his two wives?

F.

Leamington.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Of this work it is said, in a note in the Catalogue of Geo. Chalmers' library (fourth day's
sale, Sept. 30, 1841), that--

    "On June 30, 1703, the Scotch parliament ordered this book to be burned
    by the hands of the common hangman, and that the magistrates of
    Edinburgh should see it carried into effect at eleven o'clock on the
    following day."

Will any correspondent of yours furnish me with some notice of Dr. Drake, the author, and also
explain the ground of offence upon which his book was condemned? I confess to be unable to
discover anything to offend; neither, as it seems, could Mr. Surtees, for he says:

    "I quote Drake's Historia Anglo-Scotica, 1703, a book which, for what
    reason I never could discover, was ordered to be burned by the common
    hangman."--History of Durham, vol. iv. p. 55. note l.

Any notices of books which have been signalised by being subjected to similar condemnation,
would much interest me, and perhaps others of your readers.

BALLIOLENSIS.

    [The ground of offence for burning the Historia Anglo-Scotica is
    stated in The Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, vol. xi. p. 66.,
    viz.: "Ordered, that a book published by the title of Historia
    Anglo-Scotica, by James Drake, M.D., and dedicated to Sir Edward
    Symour containing many false and injurious reflections upon the
    sovereignty and independence of this crown and nation, be burnt by the
    hand of the common hangman at the mercat Cross of Edinburgh, at eleven
    o'clock to-morrow (July 1, 1703), and the magistrates of Edinburgh
    appointed to see the order punctually executed." It would appear from
    the dedication prefixed to this work, that Drake merely pretended to
    edit it, for he says, that "upon a diligent revisal, in order, if
    possible, to discover the name of the author, and the age of his
    writing, he found that it was written in, or at least not finished
    till, the time of Charles I." But he says nothing more of the MS., nor
    how it came into his hands. A notice of Dr. Drake is given in
    Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary, and in the preface to The
    Memorial of the Church of England, edit. 1711, which was also burnt by
    the common hangman in 1705. See "N. & Q.," Vol. iii., p. 519.]

Captain George Cusack.--It appears by an affidavit made by a Mr. Thomas Nugent in the year
1674, and now of record in the Exchequer Record Office, Dublin, that--

    "He, being on or about the 20th of September preceding in London, was
    by one Mr. Patrick Dowdall desired to goe along with him to see one
    George Cusack, then in prison there for severall hainous offences
    alleadged to have beene by him committed, which he could not do by
    reason of other occasions; but having within two or three days
    afterwards mett with Mr. Dowdall, was told by him that he had since
    their last meeting seene the said Cusack in prison (being the
    Marshalsea in Southwark) with bolts on, and that none of Cusack's men
    who were alsoe in prison were bolted:"

that on the 11th of November Cusack was still in restraint, and not as yet come to his trial:

    "That there were bookes written of the said Cusack's offences, which
    he heard cryed about in the streets of London to be sold, and that y^e
    generall opinion and talke was that the said Cusack should suffer death
    for his crimes."

By a fragment of an affidavit made by a Mr. Morgan O'Bryen, of the Middle Temple, London, it
appears that this man was a Captain George Cusack, who, I presume, was a pirate. May I take
leave to ask, are the above-mentioned books in existence, and where are they to be found?

JAMES F. FERGUSON.

Dublin.

    [In the British Museum is the following pamphlet:--"The Grand Pyrate:
    or the Life and Death of Captain George Cusack, the Great Sea-Robber,
    with an Accompt of all his notorious Robberies both at Sea and Land;
    together with his Tryal, Condemnation, and Execution. Taken by an
    Impartial Hand." London, 1676, pp. 24. 4to.]

Sir Ralph Winwood.--I am particularly desirous of obtaining some information respecting {273}
Sir Ralph Winwood, private secretary to James I., and should feel much obliged if any of your
numerous correspondents would favour me with anything they may know concerning him, or with
the titles of any works in which his name is mentioned.

H. P. W. R.

    [Biographical notices of Sir Ralph Winwood will be found in Biographia
    Britannica, Supplement; Lloyd's State Worthies; Wood's Athenæ;
    Granger and Chalmers' Biographical Dictionaries. Sir F. Drake's Voyage,
    by T. Maynarde, is dedicated to him. Letters to him from Sir Thomas
    Roe, in 1615, 1616, are in the British Museum, Add. MS. 6115. fol. 71.
    75. 146. And a letter to him from Sir Dudley Carlton will be found in
    the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lvii. p. 143. The Diaries of the time
    of James I. may also be consulted; a list of them is given in "N. &
    Q.," Vol. vi., p. 363.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

BOOKS CHAINED TO DESKS IN CHURCHES.

(Vol. viii., p. 93.)

The authority for this ancient custom appears to be derived from an act of the Convocation
which assembled in 1562. Strype informs us (Annals, vol. i. c. 27.) that at this Convocation
the following injunctions were given:

    "First, That a Catechism be set forth in Latin, which is already done
    by Mr. Dean of Paul's [Dean Nowell], and wanteth only viewing.
    Secondly, That certain Articles [the Thirty-nine Articles], containing
    the principal grounds of Christian religion, be set forth much like to
    such Articles as were set forth a little before the death of King
    Edward, of which Articles the most part may be used with additions and
    corrections as shall be thought convenient. Thirdly, That to these
    Articles also be adjoined the Apology, writ by Bishop Jewell, lately
    set forth after it, hath been once again revised and so augmented and
    corrected as occasion serveth. That these be joined in one book; and
    by common consent authorised as containing true doctrine, and be
    enjoined to be taught the youth in the Universities and grammar schools
    throughout the realm, and also in cathedral churches, and collegiate,
    and in private houses: and that whosoever shall preach, declare, write,
    or speak anything in derogation, depraving or despising of the said
    book, or any doctrine therein contained, and be thereof lawfully
    convicted before any ordinary, &c., he shall be ordered as in case of
    heresy, or else shall be punished as is appointed for those that offend
    and speak against the Book of Common Prayer, set forth in the first
    year of the Queen's Majesty's reign that now is: that is to say, he
    shall for the first offence forfeit 100 marks; for the second offence,
    400 marks; and for the third offence, all his goods and chattels, and
    shall suffer imprisonment during life."

It is probable that this book found a place in churches as affording a standard of orthodoxy
easy of reference to congregations in times not sufficiently remote from the Reformation, to
render the preaching of Romish doctrines unlikely. This, if the surmise be correct, would be
emphatically to bring the officiating minister to book. In Prestwich Church, the desk yet remains,
together with the "Book of Articles," bound up as prescribed with Jewel's Apology (black-letter,
1611), but the chain has disappeared. The neighbouring church of Bingley has also its desk,
to which the chain is still attached; but the "Book of Articles" has given place to some more
modern volume.

JOHN BOOKER.

Prestwich.

MR. SIMPSON will find some account of the Paraphrase of Erasmus so chained (of which he says
he cannot recal an instance) at Vol i., p. 172., and Vol. v., p. 332.

The following list (remains of which more or less perfect, with chains appended, are still
extant) will probably be interesting to many of your readers:

 "Books chayned in the Church, 25th April, 1606.

  Dionisius Carthusian vpon the New Testament, in two volumes.
  Origen vpon St. Paules Epistle to the Romanes.
  Origen against Celsus.
  Lira vpon Pentathucke of Moses.
  Lira vpon the Kings, &c.
  Theophilact vpon the New Testam^t.
  Beda vpon Luke and other P^{ts} of the Testam^t.
  Opuscula Augustini, thome x.
  Augustini Questiones in Nou[=u] Testament[=u].
  The Paraphrase of Erasmus.
  The Defence of the Apologye.
  Prierius Postill vpon the Dominicall Gospells."
          From Ecclesfield Church accounts.

J. EASTWOOD.

In Malvern Abbey Church is a copy of Dean Comber's Companion to the Temple, chained to a desk,
and bearing a written inscription to the effect that it should never be removed out of the
church; but should remain chained to its desk for ever, for the use of any parishioner who
might choose to come in and read it there.

N. B. I have mislaid my copy of this inscription: and should feel greatly obliged to any of
your correspondents who may be residing in or near Great Malvern, for a transcript of it. As
it may be thought somewhat long for your pages, perhaps some correspondent would kindly copy
it out for me, and inclose it to Rev. H. T. GRIFFITH, Hull.

University Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPHS.

(Vol. vii. passim.)

A goodly collection of singular epitaphs has appeared in "N. & Q."; but I believe it yet lacks
{274} a specimen of the following tomfoolery--an initial epitaph. Green, in his History of
Worcester, gives the following inscription from a monument under the north-west window of St.
Andrew's Church in that city:

 "Short of Weight.
      H L T B O
         R W
     I H O A J R
    A D 1780 A 63."

Green adds the following explanation of this riddle:

    "In full measure it would have stood thus: 'Here Lieth The Body Of
    Richard Weston, In Hopes Of A Joyful Resurrection. Anno Domini 1780.
    Aged 63.'"

Richard Weston was a baker, and the "Short of weight" gives the clue to the nature of his dealings,
and also to the right reading of the epitaph.

The following is from Ombersley Churchyard, Worcestershire:

 "Sharp was her wit,
    Mild was her nature;
  A tender wife,
    A good humoured creature."

From the churchyard of St. John, Worcester:

 "Honest John's
  Dead and gone."

From the churchyard of Cofton Hackett, Worcestershire, are the two following:

    "Here lieth the body of John Galey, sen., in expectation of the Last
    Day. What sort of man he was that day will discover. He was clerk of
    this parish fifty-five years. He died in 1756, aged 75."

The next is also to a Galey. Your correspondent PICTOR (Vol. viii., p. 98.) gives the same
epitaph, slightly altered, as being at Wingfield, Suffolk:

 "Pope boldly asserts (some think the maxim odd),
  An honest man's the noblest work of GOD.
  If this assertion is from error clear,
  One of the noblest works of GOD lies here."

From Alvechurch, Worcestershire; to a man and wife:

    "He, an honest, good-natured, worthy man; she, as eminent for conjugal
    and maternal virtues during her marriage and widowhood, as she had been
    before for amiable delicacy of person and manners."

The following, which is probably not to be surpassed, appeared in one of the earliest numbers
of Household Words. It is from the churchyard of Pewsey, Wiltshire:

    "Here lies the body of Lady O'Looney, great-niece of Burke, commonly
    called the Sublime. She was bland, passionate, and deeply religious:
    also, she painted in water-colours, and sent several pictures to the
    Exhibition. She was first cousin to Lady Jones: and of such is the
    kingdom of heaven."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

If epitaphs of recent date are admitted in "N. & Q.," perhaps the following, upon an editor,
which lately appeared in the Halifax Colonist, may not be out of place in your publication:

 "Here lies an editor!
    Snooks if you will;
  In mercy, kind Providence,
    Let him lie still.
  He lied for his living: so
    He lived, while he lied,
  When he could not lie longer,
    He lied down, and died."

W. W.

Malta.

 "Here lies a Wife, a Friend, a Mother,
  I believe there never was such another;
  She had a head to earn and a heart to give,
  And many poor she did relieve.
  She lived in virtue and in virtue died,
  And now in Heaven she doth reside.
  Yes! it is true as tongue can tell,
  If she had a fault, it was loving me too well.
  And when I am lying by her side,
  Who was in life her daily pride,
  Tho' she's confined in coffins three,
  She'd leave them all and come to me!"

The above lines, written on a tablet in a church at Exeter, were composed by Mr. Tuckett, tallow-chandler,
to the memory of his wife. An old subscriber of "N. & Q." thinks this epitaph more strange
and curious than any which has yet appeared in the columns of that valuable publication.

ANON.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAROCHIAL LIBRARIES.

(Vol. vii., p. 507.)

I copy the following from the fly-leaf of A Treatise of Ecclesiastical Benefices and Revenues,
by the learned Father Paul, translated by Tobias Jenkins, 8vo., Westminster, 1736:

    "Bibliotheca de Bassingbourn in Com. Cant. Dono dedit Edvardus
    Nightingale de Kneeseworth Armiger Filius et Hares Fundatoris. Feb.
    1^{mo}, 1735^{to}."

How the volume got out of the library I know not: it was purchased some years since at a sale
in Oxford.

Y. B. N. J.

To the list of parochial libraries allow me to add that of Denchworth, near Wantage, Berks.
In a small apartment over the porch, the parvise, I recollect, some years since, to have seen
a very fair collection of old divinity, the books being, all of them, confined by chains, according
to the ancient usage, an instance of which I never saw elsewhere. {275}

At St. Peter's Church, Tiverton, there is also a collection of books, mostly the gift of the
Newtes, Richard (rejected in 1646 and restored in 1660), and John his son, rectors of the portions
of Tidcombe and Clare in that church. The books are preserved in a room over the vestry.

BALLIOLENSIS.

Another venerable archdeacon now living permitted the churchwardens of Swaffham to give him
a fine copy of Cranmer's Bible belonging to the church library.

S. Z. Z. S.

Add to the list Finedon, in Northamptonshire, where there is a collection of upwards of 1000
volumes in the parvise over the porch.

E. H. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

"UP, GUARDS, AND AT THEM!"

(Vol. v., p. 426.; Vol. viii., pp. 111. 184.)

The authority for the Duke of Wellington having used these words at the battle of Waterloo
is Capt. Batty, of the Grenadier Guards, in a letter written a few days after the battle, published
in Booth's Battle of Waterloo, and illustrated by George Jones, Esq., R.A., who is believed
to have superintended the whole publication. I append the extract:--

