Towards the close of an afternoon in the dreary month of December, a small vessel was descried
in the offing, from the pier of a romantic little hamlet on the coast of ----. The pier was
this evening nearly deserted by those bold spirits, who, when sea and sky conspire to frown
together, loved to resort there to while away their idle hours. Only a few "out-and-outers"
were now to be seen at their accustomed station, defying the rough buffetings of the blast,
which on more tender faces might have acted almost with the keenness of a razor. Though the
evening certainly looked wild and stormy to an unpractised eye, still to those who "gauge the
weather" it was unaccompanied with those unerring symptoms which usually usher in a gale. However,
the appearance of the night was so uninviting, as to have induced the local craft to run some
time before along shore for shelter; and the movements of the strange vessel were consequently
a matter of speculation to those on land. There is something to our minds exceedingly interesting
in a solitary vessel at sea--it is a point on which you may hinge your attention--a living
thing on the desert-bosom of the main. For sometime her movements were apparently very undecided,
but though the weather seemed to be looking up, she suddenly put about helm, and ran without
further wavering right for the shelter held out at Lanport. In less than twenty minutes she
was safe alongside the pier. She was one of the larger class of fishing vessels and was well
manned. The attention of the bystanders was now directed to an individual who seemed to be
a passenger, and who immediately landed after conversing for a short while with the master.
The gentleman brought ashore an immoderately large carpet-bag, and forthwith marched for the
chief street of Lanport. When we say chief, we, perhaps, ought to add that it was the only
assemblage of buildings in the village, which by the comparative uniformity of their arrangement,
could lay claim to such a title. On reaching the foot of the declivity, the traveller, who
was evidently much jaded with his marine excursion, espied with symptoms of satisfaction, the
antiquated sign-post of an "hostelrie" swinging before him in the breeze. Without further investigation,
but with "wandering steps and slow," he decided on taking up his quarters at the "Mermaid Inn
and Tavern, by Judith, (or Judy as she was called by some) Teague." This determination of the
traveller would, however, have turned out to be "Hobson's choice" had his eyes wandered in
quest of a rival establishment, for here Mrs. Judy Teague reigned supreme amongst "licensed
victuallers," no rival having hitherto been found bold enough to enter the field against her.
The leisurely advance of the traveller up the street, had given all the old gossips and that
numerous class who esteem other people's business of infinitely greater consequence than their
own, full opportunity to remark on his dress and appearance; in which as faithful chroniclers
we have not gathered that there was anything remarkable--save and except the enormous carpet-bag
aforesaid, about which its owner seemed as solicitous as the traveller in Rob Roy. A stranger
was, at the period we are describing, a rara avis in terris indeed at Lanport; and it may be
conceived that the news of this arrival was discussed round every hearth in the place within
half an hour at the utmost. Mrs. Teague is recorded to have advanced to the door with unwonted
rapidity (bearing in mind that she had halted a little since she was on the wrong side of forty,
from a rheumatic affection,) to meet such an "iligant-looking guest;" and certain it is that
he had not been two hours in the house, before it was evident that both parties were on an
excellent footing together. The old lady was seen to come from the best--the parlour we mean
to say--of the Mermaid, with very unusual symptoms of good humour on her countenance, considering
(as Betsy the "maid of all work" whispered to "Jack Ostler,") that her visage had generally
a "vinegar cruet" association; though we would not take upon ourselves to assert that brandy
had not a greater share in its composition.

The strange gentleman continued in close occupation of the parlour during the entire evening.
The mysterious carpet bag was secured in an upper room, and its owner chased away the damps
and cold of the season by unusually liberal potations; in short, Mrs. Judith declared to the
numerous party of customers who had assembled from chance or curiosity on her hearth, that
he was the most liberal gentleman that had ever crossed her threshold in the way of business,
since Julius O'Brien (commonly called the tippling exciseman,) had unexpectedly departed this
life by mistaking the steep staircase of the Mermaid for a single step, one night when his
brain was more than usually beclouded. The arrival of the stranger, however, had nearly caused
a schism between the hostess and her leading customers; for the former had whilst he honoured
the Mermaid with his presence, engaged the parlour for his exclusive accommodation--an arrangement
contrary to all the rules of Lanport etiquette; and he might have experienced rather a rude
reception had not Mrs. Judy given up her sanctum sanctorum for the temporary use of the "elect."

Next day, the morning had passed away, nay, the sun was fast careering towards the western
horizon, and yet the stranger exhibited no inclination to explore the locality of Lanport.
Night at last set in, but still he remained in close quarters as before.

This appeared the more strange, as the situation of Lanport was singularly wild and interesting.
The prospect from the wooded and rocky heights of the coast was of great and commanding beauty;
and the inland view presented many scenes and objects highly calculated to invite the attention
of the lover of nature or the curious traveller. It was evident that the stranger was deficient
in both these points.

The history of the next day closely corresponded with that of the preceding. There he sat.
That night there was again a strong muster around the capacious hearth of the Mermaid. If the
stranger was deficient in that inherent passion of the human mind--curiosity--not so the villagers.
But one sentiment seemed to pervade the assembled party, and that may be summed up in the words
"Who is he?" An echo responded "Who is he?" Conjecture was literally at a fault. His very appearance
was unknown to all except the fortunate few that had beheld him in his march from the pier;
the fishing boat had put to sea before any one thought of making inquiry as to the freight
it had delivered, but every one agreed that there was something of an extraordinary character
about the said freight. Ever and anon the parlour door opened, and a lusty ring of the hand-bell
summoned the hostess into that now mysterious room: and the volley of questions which assailed
her on her return were enough to overturn the very moderate stock of patience which she possessed,
had it been centupled. She declared that "the jintleman was like other jintlemen, and barring
that he seemed the b'y for the brandy," she saw nothing amiss in him. In the midst of this
excitement in walked the officer commanding the preventive service of the district. He was
soon closeted in the sanctum, and after a due discussion of the singular proceedings of the
stranger, on the part of each member of the Lanport smoking club, the worthy lieutenant declared
"it was not only d----d odd, but very suspicious;" and that he would beard the foe who had
so unceremoniously taken possession of their own proper apartment, face to face, even though
he should turn out to be Beelzebub, in propriâ personâ. This determination was received with
a vast and simultaneous puff of exultation from every pipe in the room, so that the cloud was
for a short space so great as completely to envelope the ample proportions of Mrs. Judy Teague,
who had been an unnoticed witness of this bold proposal. The lieutenant was striding onwards
in full career towards the parlour, which lay at the opposite side of the intervening kitchen,
when he somewhat roughly encountered the fair form of Mrs. Teague, which was extended halfway
through the doorcase with a view to prevent his egress.

"Och! murder, Lafetennant ----, and is this the way you'd be sarving a lone woman, and she
a widow these twelve year agon, since Michael Tague's (Heaven rest his sowl!) been laid aneath
the turf!"

The lieutenant apologized for the rather unceremonious way in which he had run foul of Mrs. Teague.

"Och! Lafetennant," she responded, "its not that agra! (here she gave a twinge) that Judy Tague
would ever spake of from the like of you--but its against your goin' and insulting the jintl'm
in the parlour that I was spaking of--and a rale jintl'm he is, I'll be bail."

But it was all of no avail. After holding forth for several minutes, now at the top of her
voice, now in a beseeching whine--the lieutenant again got under weigh, and soon reached the
parlour door; which after giving a slight tap, he entered fully prepared to take its inmate
by storm. But, lo! he had vanished! It appeared impossible that any portion of the previous
conversation could have been wafted to his ears, but certain it was, that in place of a living
occupant of flesh and blood, nothing but the wavering shadow of an ancient high-backed chair
near the fire--which cast a faint and uncertain light through the apartment--met the eyes of
the angry lieutenant. A heavy step overhead announced that he had just retired to his sleeping-room.
Thus was the now greatly increased curiosity of the smoking club doomed to receive an unexpected
check. The stranger was evidently no ordinary person--the conversation gradually sank away--and
more than one individual of the company started in the course of the evening as the wind now
wailed with a strange unearthly sound up the silent street, and now blew in violent gusts which
made the old house creak and groan to its very foundations. Our gallant friend, the lieutenant,
was perhaps the only individual absolutely unmoved in the party; and his proposal to retake
possession of the parlour met with a general negative. Nettled at this, he declared that another
sun should not go down over his head, without obtaining some satisfactory account of this mysterious
visitant.

The third day came, and with it a partial change in the conduct of the stranger. He appeared
to have in some measure shaken off his indolence, and sallied forth betimes in the morning,
apparently to examine the beauties of the coast, towards the rocky wilds of which he was seen
to wend his way. About noon he again returned to the Mermaid. This conduct partially disarmed
the suspicion which had been excited; however it was agreed that though nothing had hitherto
occurred which could authorize any direct interference with his movements, yet that a watch
should be kept over them for the present.

The afternoon threatened to turn out stormy. Vast masses of clouds were continually driven
across the sky: and the increasing agitation and deep furrows of the ocean foretold a night
fraught with peril and disaster to the seaman. Drear December seemed about to assume his wildest
garb. This day of the week always brought the county paper. A solitary copy of this journal
was taken by Mrs. Teague, and it formed the sole channel (alas! for the march of intellect,)
by which the smoking club and other worthies of Lanport were enlightened on the sayings and
doings of the great world. It must not be inferred from this that the demon of politics was
unknown in this retired spot; on the contrary, the arrival of the ---- Journal, was looked
for with the utmost impatience from week to week; and as long as its tattered folio hung together,
its contents formed a never ending subject of conversation. On the day of its arrival, therefore,
the "club" invariably met many hours before their wonted time, to discuss politics and pigtail,
revolutions and small beer.

This circumstance, and the state of the weather, had drawn a numerous party around the hearth
at the Mermaid. The delay which took place in the arrival of the newspaper seemed unusual;
the "spokesman" had cleared his throat, the pipes had long been lit, but still it was not forthcoming.
Mrs. Teague at last announced that it was engaged by the "jintleman in the parlour." The patience
of the party lasted half an hour longer, when the clamorous calls for news dictated the step
of sending a message to the stranger. It met with an ungracious reception. At this moment some
one came in with the intelligence that a suspicious looking craft was hovering off the coast,
and that the lieutenant (whose absence was thus accounted for) was about to put off in his
galley to bring her to and overhaul her.

A second and a third message to the parlour having met with the same success as the first,
the ire of all began to rise, and after a clamorous discussion it was at last resolved, (it
was now broad daylight,) that they should go in a body and storm the enemy's quarters. The
room was situated at the other end of the house, and thither they proceeded, after a few preliminary
difficulties had been arranged as to who should first lead the way. But if the lieutenant had
been astonished at the disappearance of the stranger the preceding night, much greater was
the surprise evinced on the present occasion on finding the room again tenantless. It had evidently
only just been vacated; but what created the greatest sensation was the discovery of the smoking
remains of the ---- Journal, on the hood of the fireplace! Every one crowded around, and presently
intelligence was brought that the stranger, carrying his enormous carpet bag had been seen
walking at a great speed towards Shorne Cove, a retired little spot within a short distance
of the harbour. As is often the case on such occasions, several minutes elapsed before any
plan was determined upon, but some one at last wisely suggested that if he was to be pursued,
no time ought to be lost. The appearance of the strange vessel on the coast, and the day's
occurrence, were connected together, as they hurried onwards in the pursuit; but when they
arrived at the seashore, the mysterious man and his carpet bag were no longer visible, unless
a large boat which was pulling out to sea as fast as wind and tide would permit, gave a clue
to his invisibility. Every eye was now cast out for the strange sail.

About a mile from the pier-head, a large lugger under a press of canvass was seen coming down
the wind, with the galley in close pursuit. From the freshness of the wind and the quantity
of sail she was able to carry, it was evident that the king's boat had little chance with her.
As the chase came careering along, dropping the galley rapidly astern, the interest hinged
on the apparent connexion between her and the boat which had just left Shorne Cove with its
unknown freight. From their relative situations it was evident she must bring to for a short
space if she intended to pick up the fugitive; and this delay might possibly enable the galley
to draw her. For a few minutes the scene was one of exciting interest. The lugger broached
to as had been anticipated, and she had scarcely shipped the strange boat's crew, when the
galley pitching bows under was close in her wake. But it was too late. The lugger had no sooner
paid off, so as to get the wind again abaft the beam, than she rapidly got way on her, and
the wind continuing to freshen, in half an hour she was all but hull down.

The night passed not over the heads of the good folks of Lanport, without numberless recriminations
on the stupidity which had been displayed in not arresting the stranger before it was too late;
and the ferment was not lessened on the arrival of another copy of the ---- Journal, which
contained a paragraph headed with the glittering words, "ONE THOUSAND POUNDS REWARD."

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spirit of Discovery.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ISLAND OF ROTUMA.[10]

    "A new Cythera emerges from the bosom of the enchanted wave. An
    amphitheatre of verdure rises to our view; tufted groves mingle
    their foliage with the brilliant enamel of meadows; an eternal
    spring, combining with an eternal autumn, displays the opening
    blossoms along with the ripened fruit."--Maltebrun.

This is one of the beautiful islands of Polynesia, in the South Pacific Ocean. It was discovered
in the year 1791, and has been since occasionally visited by English and American whalers,
and a few other ships, for the purpose of procuring water and a supply of vegetable productions,
with which it abounds. It is situated in latitude 12° 30' south, and longitude 177° east, and
is distant about 260 miles from the nearest island of the Fidji group. It is of a moderate
height, densely wooded, and abounding in cocoa-nut trees, and is about from thirty to thirty-five
miles in circumference. Its general appearance is beautifully picturesque, verdant hills gradually
rising from the sandy beach, giving it a highly fertile appearance. It is surrounded by extensive
reefs, on which at low water the natives may be seen busily engaged in procuring shell and
other fish, which are abundantly produced on them, and constitute one of their articles of
daily food. At night, they fish by torch-light, lighting fires on the beach, by which the fish
are attracted to the reefs. The torches are formed of the dried spathe or fronds of the cocoa-nut
tree, and enable them to see the fish, which they take with hand-nets. It is by these lights
that the fish are attracted, but not so in the opinion of the natives, who say, "they come
to the reef at night to eat, then sleep, and leave again in the morning."

[Mr. George Bennett, in his account of his recent visit, says:--]

We made this island on the 21st of February, 1830: it bore west by south-half-south, about
twenty-five miles distant; at 11 A.M. when close in, standing for the anchorage, we were boarded
by several natives, who came off in their canoes, and surprised us by their acquaintance with
the English language; this it seems they had acquired from their occasional intercourse with
shipping, but principally from the European seamen, who had deserted from their ships and were
residing on the island in savage luxury and indolence. When at anchor, the extremes of the
land bore from east by north to west by compass. An island rather high, quoin shaped, and inhabited,
situated at a short distance from the main land, (between which there is a passage for a large
ship,) was at some distance from our present anchorage, and bore west-half-north by compass;
it was named Ouer by the natives. Close to us were two rather high islands, or islets, of small
extent, planted with cocoa-nut trees, and almost connected together by rocks, and to the main
land by a reef; they shelter the bay from easterly winds. Their bearings are as follow:--the
first centre bore east-half-north; the second centre bore east-half-south, extreme of the main
land east-south-east by compass. One of the chiefs, on our anchoring, addressing the Commander
made the following very humane observation, "If Rótuma man steal, to make hang up immediately."
Had this request been complied with, there would have been a great depopulation during our
stay, and it is not improbable that a few chiefs might have felt its effects.

On a second visit to this island in March, 1830, we anchored in a fine picturesque bay, situated
on the west side of the island, named Thor, in fourteen fathoms, sand and coral bottom, about
three miles distant from the centre. A reef extends out some distance from the beach at this
bay, almost dry at low water, and with much surf at the entrance, from which cause the procuring
of wood and water is attended with more difficulty than at Onhaf Bay.

On landing, the beautiful appearance of the island was rather increased than diminished; vegetation
appeared most luxuriant, and the trees and shrubs blooming with various tints, spread a gaiety
around; the clean and neat native houses were intermingled with the waving plumes of the cocoa-nut,
the broad spreading plantain, and other trees peculiar to tropical climes. That magnificent
tree the callophyllum inophyllum, or fifau of the natives, was not less abundant, displaying
its shining, dark, green foliage, contrasted by beautiful clusters of white flowers teeming
with fragrance. This tree seemed a favourite with the natives, on account of its shade, fragrance,
and ornamental appearance of the flowers. When I extended my rambles more inland, through narrow
and sometimes rugged pathways, the luxuriance of vegetation did not decrease, but the lofty
trees, overshadowing the road, defended the pedestrian from the effects of a fervent sun, rendering
the walk under their umbrageous covering cool and pleasant. The gay flowers of the hibiscus
tiliaceus, as well as the splendid huth or Barringtonia speciosa, covered with its beautiful
flowers, the petals of which are white, and the edges of the stamina delicately tinged with
pink, give to the trees when in full bloom a magnificent appearance; the hibiscus rosa-chinensis,
or kowa of the natives also grows in luxuriance and beauty. The elegant flowers of these trees,
with others of more humble and less beautiful tints, everywhere meet the eye near the paths,
occasionally varied by plantations of the ahan or taro, arum esculentum, which, from a deficiency
of irrigation, is generally of the mountain variety. Of the sugar-cane they possess several
varieties, and it is eaten in the raw state; a small variety of yam, more commonly known by
the name of the Rótuma potato, the ulé of the natives, is very abundant; the ulu or bread-fruit,
pori or plantain and the vi, (spondias dulcis, Parkinson,) or, Brazilian plum, with numerous
other kinds, sufficiently testify the fertility of the island. Occasionally the mournful toa
or casuarina equisetifolia, planted in small clumps near the villages or surrounding the burial-places,
added beauty to the landscape.

The native houses are very neat; they are formed of poles and logs, the roof being covered
with the leaves of a species of sagus palm, named hoat by the natives, and highly valued by
them for that purpose on account of their durability; the sides are covered with the plaited
sections of the cocoa-nut branches, which form excellent coverings.

The natives are a fine-looking and well-formed people; they are of good dispositions, but are
much addicted to thieving, which seems indeed to be a national propensity; they are of a light
copper colour, and the men wear the hair long and stained at the extremities of a reddish brown
colour; sometimes they tie the hair in a knot behind, but the most prevailing custom is to
permit it to hang over the shoulders. The females may be termed handsome, of fine forms, and
although possessing a modest demeanour, flocked on board in numbers on the ship's arrival.
The women before marriage have the hair cut close and covered with the shoroi, which is burnt
coral mixed with the gum of the bread-fruit tree; this is removed after marriage and their
hair is permitted to grow long, but on the death of a chief or their parents it is cut close
as a badge of mourning. Both sexes paint themselves with a mixture of the root of the turmeric
plant (curcuma longa) and cocoa-nut oil, which frequently changed our clothes and persons of
an icteroid hue, from our curiosity to mingle with them in the villages--theirs to come on
board the ship.

On visiting the king, who resided at the village of Fangwot, we found him a well-formed and
handsome man, apparently about thirty years of age; the upper part of his body was thickly
covered with the Rang, or paint of turmeric and oil, which had been recently laid on in honour
of the visit from the strangers. There was somewhat of novelty, but little of "regal magnificence"
in our reception. In the open air, under the wide-spreading branches of their favourite Fifau,
(Callophyllum Inophyllum) sat his Majesty squatted on the ground, and surrounded by a crowd
of his subjects. The introduction was equally unostentatious; one of the natives who had accompanied
us from the ship, pointing towards him, said, in tolerably pronounced English, "That the king."
His Majesty not being himself acquainted with our language, one of his attendants, who spoke
it with considerable fluency, acted as interpreter. After some common-place questions, such
as where the ship came from, where bound to, what provisions we stood in need of, &c., we adjourned
to the royal habitation, which differed in no respect from the other native houses. Yams, bread-fruit,
and fish, wrapped in the plantain leaves in which they had been cooked, were here placed before
us, with cocoa-nut water for our beverage; plantain leaves serving also as plates.

The chiefs are elected kings in rotation, and the royal office is held for six months, but
by the consent of the other chiefs, it may be retained by the same chief for two or three years.
The royal title is Sho: the king to whom we had been introduced, as a chief, is named Mora.
We had an interview also with the former king, named Riemko; he is a chief of high rank, and
a very intelligent man: he spoke the English language with much correctness. Being naturally
of an inquisitive disposition, and possessing an exceedingly retentive memory, he had acquired
much information; this he displayed by detailing to us many facts connected with the history
of Napoleon Buonaparte, Wellington, &c., which had been related to him by various European
visiters, and which he appeared to retain to the most minute particulars. He surprised us by
inquiring if we resided in "Russell-square, London?"

An innate love of roaming seems to exist among these people; they set sail without any fixed
purpose in one of their large canoes: few ever return, some probably perish, others drift on
islands either uninhabited, or if inhabited, they mingle with the natives, and tend to produce
those varieties of the human race which are so observable in the Polynesian Archipelago. I
frequently asked those of Rótuma what object they had in leaving their fertile island to risk
the perils of the deep? the reply invariably was, "Rótuma man want to see new land:" they thus
run before the wind until they fall in with some island, or perish in a storm. Cook and others
relate numerous instances of this kind.

As an evidence of the great desire of the natives of both sexes to leave their native land,
I may mention the offers which were made to the commander of the ship, of baskets of potatoes
and hogs, as an inducement to be carried to the island of Erromanga, where our vessel was next
bound to. Two hundred were taken on board for the purpose of cutting Sandal wood, but from
the unhealthy state in which we found the island on our arrival, and the numerous deaths that
had occurred among native gangs that had been brought by other vessels for a similar purpose,
we returned to Rótuma and landed them all safely. The perfect apathy with which they leave
parents and connexions, departing with strangers to a place respecting which they are in total
ignorance, is quite surprising, placing an unbounded confidence in those differing in colour,
language, and customs from themselves: the young, timid females, to whom a ship was a novelty,
those who had never before seen a ship, were all anxious to visit foreign climes,--even, they
said, London.

Much wonder was excited, when I exhibited to the natives of this island coloured engravings
of flowers, birds, butterflies, &c.; they imagined them to be the original plant or butterfly
attached to the paper--no mean compliment to the artist. The engravings in Charles Bell's Anatomy
of Expression always excited much interest when shown to the Polynesians; the plate representing
Laughter never failed of exciting sympathy. A caricature representation of one of the fashionable
belles of 1828 puzzled them exceedingly; some thought it "a bird," others that it was a nondescript
of some kind, but when they were told that it was a Haina London, or English lady, they laughed,
and said Parora, "you are in joke," so incredible did it seem to their unsophisticated minds.[11]

    [10] From a drawing, obligingly furnished by Mr. George Bennett,
         Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, &c.

    [11] Abridged from the United Service Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOUNT ARARAT.

A short time since there were given in the St. Petersburgh Academical Journal some authentic
particulars of Professor Parrot's journey to Mount Ararat. After being baffled in repeated
attempts, he at length succeeded in overcoming the obstacles which beset him, and ascertained
the positive elevation of its peak to be 16,200 French feet: it is, therefore, more than 1,500
feet loftier than Mount Blanc. He describes the summit as being a circular plane, about 160
feet in circumference, joined by a gentle descent, with a second and less elevated one towards
the east. The whole of the upper region of the mountain, from the height of 12,750 English
feet, being covered with perpetual snow and ice. He afterwards ascended what is termed "The
Little Ararat," and reports it to be about 13,100 English feet high.--W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAILING UP THE ESSEQUIBO.

(Concluded from page 360.)

A family of Indians was seen crossing the river in their log canoe, and disappearing under
the bushes on the opposite side; my companion and myself paddled after them, and we landed
under some locust trees, and found an Indian settlement. The logies were sheds, open all round,
and covered with the leaves of the trooly-palm, some of them twenty-four feet long; and suspended
from the bamboo timbers of the roof were hammocks of net-work, in which the men were lazily
swinging. One or two of those who were awake were fashioning arrow-heads out of hard wood.
The men and children were entirely naked, with the exception of the blue lap or cloth for the
loins; the women in their blue petticoat and braided hair were scraping the root of the cassava
tree into a trough of bark; it was then put into a long press of matting, which expresses the
poisonous juice; the dry farina is finally baked on an iron plate. The old women were weaving
the square coëoo or lap of beads, which they sometimes wear without a petticoat; also armlets
and ankle ornaments of beads. Some were fabricating earthen pots, and all the females seemed
actively employed. They offered us a red liquor, called caseeree, prepared from the sweet potato;
also piwarry, the intoxicating beverage made by chewing the cassava, and allowing it to ferment.
At their piwarry feasts the Indians prepare a small canoe full of this liquor, beside which
the entertainers and their guests roll together drunk for two or three days. Their helpmates
look after them, and keep them from being suffocated with the sand getting into their mouths:
but piwarry is a harmless liquor, that is to say, it does not produce the disease and baneful
effects of spirits, for after a sleep the Indians rise fresh and well, and only occasionally
indulge in a debauch of this kind. Fish, which the men had shot with their arrows, and birds,
were brought out of the canoe, and barbacoted or smoke-dried on a grating of bamboos over a
fire; and we followed an old man with a cutlass to their small fields of cassava, cleared by
girdling and burning a part of the forest behind the logies. These Indians were of the Arrawak
nation; we afterwards saw Caribs, Accaways, &c.

The rivers and creeks, and the whole of the interior of British Guiana at a distance from the
sea, are unknown and unexplored. October and November are the driest months in the year, and
the best for expeditions into the interior. I was unable to go as far up the river as I wished,
from the great freshes; the rain fell every day, yet I penetrated in all directions as far
as I could, and I trust to be able, at some more favourable season, to return to that interesting
country.

Two years ago, a Mr. Smith, a mercantile man from Caraccas, was joined at George Town by a
Lieutenant Gullifer, R.N. They proceeded down the Pomeroon river, then up the Wyeena creek,
travelled across to the Coioony, sailed down it, and then went up the Essequibo to the Rio
Negro, which, it appears, connects the Amazons and Oroonoco rivers. At Bara, on the Rio Negro,
Mr. Smith, from sitting so long cramped up in coorials or canoes, became affected with dropsy;
and allowing himself to be tapped by an ignorant quack, died after a fortnight's illness. Lieutenant
Gullifer sailed down the Rio Negro to the Amazons, and remained at Para for some months, till
he heard from England. From domestic details he received at Para, he fell into low spirits,
and proceeded to Trinidad, where, one morning, he was found suspended to a beam under the steeple
of the Protestant church! His papers, and Mr. Smith's, consisting of journals of their travels,
were sent to a brother of Lieutenant Gullifer's, on the Marocco coast of Essequibo, where I
went and saw the papers, and was most anxious to obtain them for the Geographical Society;
but Mr. Gullifer said that he must consult first with the other relatives.

