The language of Utopia will no doubt be one and indivisible; all mankind will, in the measure
of their individual differences in quality, be brought into the same phase, into a common resonance
of thought, but the language they will speak will still be a living tongue, an animated system
of imperfections, which every individual man will infinitesimally modify. Through the universal
freedom of exchange and movement, the developing change in its general spirit will be a world-wide
change; that is the quality of its universality. I fancy it will be a coalesced language, a
synthesis of many. Such a language as English is a coalesced language; it is a coalescence
of Anglo-Saxon and Norman French and Scholar's Latin, welded into one speech more ample and
more powerful and beautiful than either. The Utopian tongue might well present a more spacious
coalescence, and hold in the frame of such an uninflected or slightly inflected idiom as English
already presents, a profuse vocabulary into which have been cast a dozen once separate tongues,
superposed and then welded together through bilingual and trilingual compromises. [Footnote:
Vide an excellent article, La Langue Francaise en l'an 2003, par Leon Bollack, in La Revue,
15 Juillet, 1903.] In the past ingenious men have speculated on the inquiry, "Which language
will survive?" The question was badly put. I think now that this wedding and survival of several
in a common offspring is a far more probable thing.

Section 6

This talk of languages, however, is a digression. We were on our way along the faint path that
runs round the rim of the Lake of Lucendro, and we were just upon the point of coming upon
our first Utopian man. He was, I said, no Swiss. Yet he would have been a Swiss on mother Earth,
and here he would have the same face, with some difference, maybe, in the expression; the same
physique, though a little better developed, perhaps--the same complexion. He would have different
habits, different traditions, different knowledge, different ideas, different clothing, and
different appliances, but, except for all that, he would be the same man. We very distinctly
provided at the outset that the modern Utopia must have people inherently the same as those
in the world.

There is more, perhaps, in that than appears at the first suggestion.

That proposition gives one characteristic difference between a modern Utopia and almost all
its predecessors. It is to be a world Utopia, we have agreed, no less; and so we must needs
face the fact that we are to have differences of race. Even the lower class of Plato's Republic
was not specifically of different race. But this is a Utopia as wide as Christian charity,
and white and black, brown, red and yellow, all tints of skin, all types of body and character,
will be there. How we are to adjust their differences is a master question, and the matter
is not even to be opened in this chapter. It will need a whole chapter even to glance at its
issues. But here we underline that stipulation; every race of this planet earth is to be found
in the strictest parallelism there, in numbers the same--only, as I say, with an entirely different
set of traditions, ideals, ideas, and purposes, and so moving under those different skies to
an altogether different destiny.

There follows a curious development of this to anyone clearly impressed by the uniqueness and
the unique significance of individualities. Races are no hard and fast things, no crowd of
identically similar persons, but massed sub-races, and tribes and families, each after its
kind unique, and these again are clusterings of still smaller uniques and so down to each several
person. So that our first convention works out to this, that not only is every earthly mountain,
river, plant, and beast in that parallel planet beyond Sirius also, but every man, woman, and
child alive has a Utopian parallel. From now onward, of course, the fates of these two planets
will diverge, men will die here whom wisdom will save there, and perhaps conversely here we
shall save men; children will be born to them and not to us, to us and not to them, but this,
this moment of reading, is the starting moment, and for the first and last occasion the populations
of our planets are abreast.

We must in these days make some such supposition. The alternative is a Utopia of dolls in the
likeness of angels--imaginary laws to fit incredible people, an unattractive undertaking.

For example, we must assume there is a man such as I might have been, better informed, better
disciplined, better employed, thinner and more active--and I wonder what he is doing!--and
you, Sir or Madam, are in duplicate also, and all the men and women that you know and I. I
doubt if we shall meet our doubles, or if it would be pleasant for us to do so; but as we come
down from these lonely mountains to the roads and houses and living places of the Utopian world-state,
we shall certainly find, here and there, faces that will remind us singularly of those who
have lived under our eyes.

There are some you never wish to meet again, you say, and some, I gather, you do. "And One----!"

It is strange, but this figure of the botanist will not keep in place. It sprang up between
us, dear reader, as a passing illustrative invention. I do not know what put him into my head,
and for the moment, it fell in with my humour for a space to foist the man's personality upon
you as yours and call you scientific--that most abusive word. But here he is, indisputably,
with me in Utopia, and lapsing from our high speculative theme into halting but intimate confidences.
He declares he has not come to Utopia to meet again with his sorrows.

What sorrows?

I protest, even warmly, that neither he nor his sorrows were in my intention.

He is a man, I should think, of thirty-nine, a man whose life has been neither tragedy nor
a joyous adventure, a man with one of those faces that have gained interest rather than force
or nobility from their commerce with life. He is something refined, with some knowledge, perhaps,
of the minor pains and all the civil self-controls; he has read more than he has suffered,
and suffered rather than done. He regards me with his blue-grey eye, from which all interest
in this Utopia has faded.

"It is a trouble," he says, "that has come into my life only for a month or so--at least acutely
again. I thought it was all over. There was someone----"

It is an amazing story to hear upon a mountain crest in Utopia, this Hampstead affair, this
story of a Frognal heart. "Frognal," he says, is the place where they met, and it summons to
my memory the word on a board at the corner of a flint-dressed new road, an estate development
road, with a vista of villas up a hill. He had known her before he got his professorship, and
neither her "people" nor his--he speaks that detestable middle-class dialect in which aunts
and things with money and the right of intervention are called "people"!--approved of the affair.
"She was, I think, rather easily swayed," he says. "But that's not fair to her, perhaps. She
thought too much of others. If they seemed distressed, or if they seemed to think a course
right----" ...

Have I come to Utopia to hear this sort of thing?

Section 7

It is necessary to turn the botanist's thoughts into a worthier channel. It is necessary to
override these modest regrets, this intrusive, petty love story. Does he realise this is indeed
Utopia? Turn your mind, I insist, to this Utopia of mine, and leave these earthly troubles
to their proper planet. Do you realise just where the propositions necessary to a modern Utopia
are taking us? Everyone on earth will have to be here;--themselves, but with a difference.
Somewhere here in this world is, for example, Mr. Chamberlain, and the King is here (no doubt
incognito), and all the Royal Academy, and Sandow, and Mr. Arnold White.

But these famous names do not appeal to him.

My mind goes from this prominent and typical personage to that, and for a time I forget my
companion. I am distracted by the curious side issues this general proposition trails after
it. There will be so-and-so, and so-and-so. The name and figure of Mr. Roosevelt jerks into
focus, and obliterates an attempt to acclimatise the Emperor of the Germans. What, for instance,
will Utopia do with Mr. Roosevelt? There drifts across my inner vision the image of a strenuous
struggle with Utopian constables, the voice that has thrilled terrestrial millions in eloquent
protest. The writ of arrest, drifting loose in the conflict, comes to my feet; I impale the
scrap of paper, and read--but can it be?--"attempted disorganisation? ... incitements to disarrange?
... the balance of population?"

The trend of my logic for once has led us into a facetious alley. One might indeed keep in
this key, and write an agreeable little Utopia, that like the holy families of the mediaeval
artists (or Michael Angelo's Last Judgement) should compliment one's friends in various degrees.
Or one might embark upon a speculative treatment of the entire Almanach de Gotha, something
on the lines of Epistemon's vision of the damned great, when

  "Xerxes was a crier of mustard.
   Romulus was a salter and a patcher of patterns...."

That incomparable catalogue! That incomparable catalogue! Inspired by the Muse of Parody, we
might go on to the pages of "Who's Who," and even, with an eye to the obdurate republic, to
"Who's Who in America," and make the most delightful and extensive arrangements. Now where
shall we put this most excellent man? And this? ...

But, indeed, it is doubtful if we shall meet any of these doubles during our Utopian journey,
or know them when we meet them. I doubt if anyone will be making the best of both these worlds.
The great men in this still unexplored Utopia may be but village Hampdens in our own, and earthly
goatherds and obscure illiterates sit here in the seats of the mighty.

That again opens agreeable vistas left of us and right.

But my botanist obtrudes his personality again. His thoughts have travelled by a different route.

"I know," he says, "that she will be happier here, and that they will value her better than
she has been valued upon earth."

His interruption serves to turn me back from my momentary contemplation of those popular effigies
inflated by old newspapers and windy report, the earthly great. He sets me thinking of more
personal and intimate applications, of the human beings one knows with a certain approximation
to real knowledge, of the actual common substance of life. He turns me to the thought of rivalries
and tendernesses, of differences and disappointments. I am suddenly brought painfully against
the things that might have been. What if instead of that Utopia of vacant ovals we meet relinquished
loves here, and opportunities lost and faces as they might have looked to us?

I turn to my botanist almost reprovingly. "You know, she won't be quite the same lady here
that you knew in Frognal," I say, and wrest myself from a subject that is no longer agreeable
by rising to my feet.

"And besides," I say, standing above him, "the chances against our meeting her are a million
to one.... And we loiter! This is not the business we have come upon, but a mere incidental
kink in our larger plan. The fact remains, these people we have come to see are people with
like infirmities to our own--and only the conditions are changed. Let us pursue the tenour
of our inquiry."

With that I lead the way round the edge of the Lake of Lucendro towards our Utopian world.

(You figure him doing it.)

Down the mountain we shall go and down the passes, and as the valleys open the world will open,
Utopia, where men and women are happy and laws are wise, and where all that is tangled and
confused in human affairs has been unravelled and made right.

CHAPTER THE SECOND

Concerning Freedoms

Section 1

Now what sort of question would first occur to two men descending upon the planet of a Modern
Utopia? Probably grave solicitude about their personal freedom. Towards the Stranger, as I
have already remarked, the Utopias of the past displayed their least amiable aspect. Would
this new sort of Utopian State, spread to the dimensions of a world, be any less forbidding?

We should take comfort in the thought that universal Toleration is certainly a modern idea,
and it is upon modern ideas that this World State rests. But even suppose we are tolerated
and admitted to this unavoidable citizenship, there will still remain a wide range of possibility....
I think we should try to work the problem out from an inquiry into first principles, and that
we should follow the trend of our time and kind by taking up the question as one of "Man versus
the State," and discussing the compromise of Liberty.

The idea of individual liberty is one that has grown in importance and grows with every development
of modern thought. To the classical Utopists freedom was relatively trivial. Clearly they considered
virtue and happiness as entirely separable from liberty, and as being altogether more important
things. But the modern view, with its deepening insistence upon individuality and upon the
significance of its uniqueness, steadily intensifies the value of freedom, until at last we
begin to see liberty as the very substance of life, that indeed it is life, and that only the
dead things, the choiceless things, live in absolute obedience to law. To have free play for
one's individuality is, in the modern view, the subjective triumph of existence, as survival
in creative work and offspring is its objective triumph. But for all men, since man is a social
creature, the play of will must fall short of absolute freedom. Perfect human liberty is possible
only to a despot who is absolutely and universally obeyed. Then to will would be to command
and achieve, and within the limits of natural law we could at any moment do exactly as it pleased
us to do. All other liberty is a compromise between our own freedom of will and the wills of
those with whom we come in contact. In an organised state each one of us has a more or less
elaborate code of what he may do to others and to himself, and what others may do to him. He
limits others by his rights, and is limited by the rights of others, and by considerations
affecting the welfare of the community as a whole.

Individual liberty in a community is not, as mathematicians would say, always of the same sign.
To ignore this is the essential fallacy of the cult called Individualism. But in truth, a general
prohibition in a state may increase the sum of liberty, and a general permission may diminish
it. It does not follow, as these people would have us believe, that a man is more free where
there is least law and more restricted where there is most law. A socialism or a communism
is not necessarily a slavery, and there is no freedom under Anarchy. Consider how much liberty
we gain by the loss of the common liberty to kill. Thereby one may go to and fro in all the
ordered parts of the earth, unencumbered by arms or armour, free of the fear of playful poison,
whimsical barbers, or hotel trap-doors. Indeed, it means freedom from a thousand fears and
precautions. Suppose there existed even the limited freedom to kill in vendetta, and think
what would happen in our suburbs. Consider the inconvenience of two households in a modern
suburb estranged and provided with modern weapons of precision, the inconvenience not only
to each other, but to the neutral pedestrian, the practical loss of freedoms all about them.
The butcher, if he came at all, would have to come round in an armoured cart....

It follows, therefore, in a modern Utopia, which finds the final hope of the world in the evolving
interplay of unique individualities, that the State will have effectually chipped away just
all those spendthrift liberties that waste liberty, and not one liberty more, and so have attained
the maximum general freedom.

There are two distinct and contrasting methods of limiting liberty; the first is Prohibition,
"thou shalt not," and the second Command, "thou shalt." There is, however, a sort of prohibition
that takes the form of a conditional command, and this one needs to bear in mind. It says if
you do so-and-so, you must also do so-and-so; if, for example, you go to sea with men you employ,
you must go in a seaworthy vessel. But the pure command is unconditional; it says, whatever
you have done or are doing or want to do, you are to do this, as when the social system, working
through the base necessities of base parents and bad laws, sends a child of thirteen into a
factory. Prohibition takes one definite thing from the indefinite liberty of a man, but it
still leaves him an unbounded choice of actions. He remains free, and you have merely taken
a bucketful from the sea of his freedom. But compulsion destroys freedom altogether. In this
Utopia of ours there may be many prohibitions, but no indirect compulsions--if one may so contrive
it--and few or no commands. As far as I see it now, in this present discussion, I think, indeed,
there should be no positive compulsions at all in Utopia, at any rate for the adult Utopian--unless
they fall upon him as penalties incurred.

Section 2

What prohibitions should we be under, we two Uitlanders in this Utopian world? We should certainly
not be free to kill, assault, or threaten anyone we met, and in that we earth-trained men would
not be likely to offend. And until we knew more exactly the Utopian idea of property we should
be very chary of touching anything that might conceivably be appropriated. If it was not the
property of individuals it might be the property of the State. But beyond that we might have
our doubts. Are we right in wearing the strange costumes we do, in choosing the path that pleases
us athwart this rock and turf, in coming striding with unfumigated rucksacks and snow-wet hobnails
into what is conceivably an extremely neat and orderly world? We have passed our first Utopian
now, with an answered vague gesture, and have noted, with secret satisfaction, there is no
access of dismay; we have rounded a bend, and down the valley in the distance we get a glimpse
of what appears to be a singularly well-kept road....

I submit that to the modern minded man it can be no sort of Utopia worth desiring that does
not give the utmost freedom of going to and fro. Free movement is to many people one of the
greatest of life's privileges--to go wherever the spirit moves them, to wander and see--and
though they have every comfort, every security, every virtuous discipline, they will still
be unhappy if that is denied them. Short of damage to things cherished and made, the Utopians
will surely have this right, so we may expect no unclimbable walls and fences, nor the discovery
of any laws we may transgress in coming down these mountain places.

And yet, just as civil liberty itself is a compromise defended by prohibitions, so this particular
sort of liberty must also have its qualifications. Carried to the absolute pitch the right
of free movement ceases to be distinguishable from the right of free intrusion. We have already,
in a comment on More's Utopia, hinted at an agreement with Aristotle's argument against communism,
that it flings people into an intolerable continuity of contact. Schopenhauer carried out Aristotle
in the vein of his own bitterness and with the truest of images when he likened human society
to hedgehogs clustering for warmth, and unhappy when either too closely packed or too widely
separated. Empedocles found no significance in life whatever except as an unsteady play of
love and hate, of attraction and repulsion, of assimilation and the assertion of difference.
So long as we ignore difference, so long as we ignore individuality, and that I hold has been
the common sin of all Utopias hitherto, we can make absolute statements, prescribe communisms
or individualisms, and all sorts of hard theoretic arrangements. But in the world of reality,
which--to modernise Heraclitus and Empedocles--is nothing more nor less than the world of individuality,
there are no absolute rights and wrongs, there are no qualitative questions at all, but only
quantitative adjustments. Equally strong in the normal civilised man is the desire for freedom
of movement and the desire for a certain privacy, for a corner definitely his, and we have
to consider where the line of reconciliation comes.

The desire for absolute personal privacy is perhaps never a very strong or persistent craving.
In the great majority of human beings, the gregarious instinct is sufficiently powerful to
render any but the most temporary isolations not simply disagreeable, but painful. The savage
has all the privacy he needs within the compass of his skull; like dogs and timid women, he
prefers ill-treatment to desertion, and it is only a scarce and complex modern type that finds
comfort and refreshment in quite lonely places and quite solitary occupations. Yet such there
are, men who can neither sleep well nor think well, nor attain to a full perception of beautiful
objects, who do not savour the best of existence until they are securely alone, and for the
sake of these even it would be reasonable to draw some limits to the general right of free
movement. But their particular need is only a special and exceptional aspect of an almost universal
claim to privacy among modern people, not so much for the sake of isolation as for congenial
companionship. We want to go apart from the great crowd, not so much to be alone as to be with
those who appeal to us particularly and to whom we particularly appeal; we want to form households
and societies with them, to give our individualities play in intercourse with them, and in
the appointments and furnishings of that intercourse. We want gardens and enclosures and exclusive
freedoms for our like and our choice, just as spacious as we can get them--and it is only the
multitudinous uncongenial, anxious also for similar developments in some opposite direction,
that checks this expansive movement of personal selection and necessitates a compromise on privacy.

Glancing back from our Utopian mountain side down which this discourse marches, to the confusions
of old earth, we may remark that the need and desire for privacies there is exceptionally great
at the present time, that it was less in the past, that in the future it may be less again,
and that under the Utopian conditions to which we shall come when presently we strike yonder
road, it may be reduced to quite manageable dimensions. But this is to be effected not by the
suppression of individualities to some common pattern, [Footnote: More's Utopia. "Whoso will
may go in, for there is nothing within the houses that is private or anie man's owne."] but
by the broadening of public charity and the general amelioration of mind and manners. It is
not by assimilation, that is to say, but by understanding that the modern Utopia achieves itself.
The ideal community of man's past was one with a common belief, with common customs and common
ceremonies, common manners and common formulae; men of the same society dressed in the same
fashion, each according to his defined and understood grade, behaved in the same fashion, loved,
worshipped, and died in the same fashion. They did or felt little that did not find a sympathetic
publicity. The natural disposition of all peoples, white, black, or brown, a natural disposition
that education seeks to destroy, is to insist upon uniformity, to make publicity extremely
unsympathetic to even the most harmless departures from the code. To be dressed "odd," to behave
"oddly," to eat in a different manner or of different food, to commit, indeed, any breach of
the established convention is to give offence and to incur hostility among unsophisticated
men. But the disposition of the more original and enterprising minds at all times has been
to make such innovations.

This is particularly in evidence in this present age. The almost cataclysmal development of
new machinery, the discovery of new materials, and the appearance of new social possibilities
through the organised pursuit of material science, has given enormous and unprecedented facilities
to the spirit of innovation. The old local order has been broken up or is now being broken
up all over the earth, and everywhere societies deliquesce, everywhere men are afloat amidst
the wreckage of their flooded conventions, and still tremendously unaware of the thing that
has happened. The old local orthodoxies of behaviour, of precedence, the old accepted amusements
and employments, the old ritual of conduct in the important small things of the daily life
and the old ritual of thought in the things that make discussion, are smashed up and scattered
and mixed discordantly together, one use with another, and no world-wide culture of toleration,
no courteous admission of differences, no wider understanding has yet replaced them. And so
publicity in the modern earth has become confusedly unsympathetic for everyone. Classes are
intolerable to classes and sets to sets, contact provokes aggressions, comparisons, persecutions
and discomforts, and the subtler people are excessively tormented by a sense of observation,
unsympathetic always and often hostile. To live without some sort of segregation from the general
mass is impossible in exact proportion to one's individual distinction.

Of course things will be very different in Utopia. Utopia will be saturated with consideration.
To us, clad as we are in mountain-soiled tweeds and with no money but British bank-notes negotiable
only at a practically infinite distance, this must needs be a reassuring induction. And Utopian
manners will not only be tolerant, but almost universally tolerable. Endless things will be
understood perfectly and universally that on earth are understood only by a scattered few;
baseness of bearing, grossness of manner, will be the distinctive mark of no section of the
community whatever. The coarser reasons for privacy, therefore, will not exist here. And that
savage sort of shyness, too, that makes so many half-educated people on earth recluse and defensive,
that too the Utopians will have escaped by their more liberal breeding. In the cultivated State
we are assuming it will be ever so much easier for people to eat in public, rest and amuse
themselves in public, and even work in public. Our present need for privacy in many things
marks, indeed, a phase of transition from an ease in public in the past due to homogeneity,
to an ease in public in the future due to intelligence and good breeding, and in Utopia that
transition will be complete. We must bear that in mind throughout the consideration of this
question.

Yet, after this allowance has been made, there still remains a considerable claim for privacy
in Utopia. The room, or apartments, or home, or mansion, whatever it may be a man or woman
maintains, must be private, and under his or her complete dominion; it seems harsh and intrusive
to forbid a central garden plot or peristyle, such as one sees in Pompeii, within the house
walls, and it is almost as difficult to deny a little private territory beyond the house. Yet
if we concede that, it is clear that without some further provision we concede the possibility
that the poorer townsman (if there are to be rich and poor in the world) will be forced to
walk through endless miles of high fenced villa gardens before he may expand in his little
scrap of reserved open country. Such is already the poor Londoner's miserable fate.... Our
Utopia will have, of course, faultless roads and beautifully arranged inter-urban communications,
swift trains or motor services or what not, to diffuse its population, and without some anticipatory
provisions, the prospect of the residential areas becoming a vast area of defensively walled
villa Edens is all too possible.

This is a quantitative question, be it remembered, and not to be dismissed by any statement
of principle. Our Utopians will meet it, I presume, by detailed regulations, very probably
varying locally with local conditions. Privacy beyond the house might be made a privilege to
be paid for in proportion to the area occupied, and the tax on these licences of privacy might
increase as the square of the area affected. A maximum fraction of private enclosure for each
urban and suburban square mile could be fixed. A distinction could be drawn between an absolutely
private garden and a garden private and closed only for a day or a couple of days a week, and
at other times open to the well-behaved public. Who, in a really civilised community, would
grudge that measure of invasion? Walls could be taxed by height and length, and the enclosure
of really natural beauties, of rapids, cascades, gorges, viewpoints, and so forth made impossible.
So a reasonable compromise between the vital and conflicting claims of the freedom of movement
and the freedom of seclusion might be attained....

And as we argue thus we draw nearer and nearer to the road that goes up and over the Gotthard
crest and down the Val Tremola towards Italy.

What sort of road would that be?

Section 3

Freedom of movement in a Utopia planned under modern conditions must involve something more
than unrestricted pedestrian wanderings, and the very proposition of a world-state speaking
one common tongue carries with it the idea of a world population travelled and travelling to
an extent quite beyond anything our native earth has seen. It is now our terrestrial experience
that whenever economic and political developments set a class free to travel, that class at
once begins to travel; in England, for example, above the five or six hundred pounds a year
level, it is hard to find anyone who is not habitually migratory, who has not been frequently,
as people say, "abroad." In the Modern Utopia travel must be in the common texture of life.
To go into fresh climates and fresh scenery, to meet a different complexion of humanity and
a different type of home and food and apparatus, to mark unfamiliar trees and plants and flowers
and beasts, to climb mountains, to see the snowy night of the North and the blaze of the tropical
midday, to follow great rivers, to taste loneliness in desert places, to traverse the gloom
of tropical forests and to cross the high seas, will be an essential part of the reward and
adventure of life, even for the commonest people.... This is a bright and pleasant particular
in which a modern Utopia must differ again, and differ diametrically, from its predecessors.

We may conclude from what has been done in places upon our earth that the whole Utopian world
will be open and accessible and as safe for the wayfarer as France or England is to-day. The
peace of the world will be established for ever, and everywhere, except in remote and desolate
places, there will be convenient inns, at least as convenient and trustworthy as those of Switzerland
to-day; the touring clubs and hotel associations that have tariffed that country and France
so effectually will have had their fine Utopian equivalents, and the whole world will be habituated
to the coming and going of strangers. The greater part of the world will be as secure and cheaply
and easily accessible to everyone as is Zermatt or Lucerne to a Western European of the middle-class
at the present time.

On this account alone no places will be so congested as these two are now on earth. With freedom
to go everywhere, with easy access everywhere, with no dread of difficulties about language,
coinage, custom, or law, why should everyone continue to go to just a few special places? Such
congestions are merely the measure of the general inaccessibility and insecurity and costliness
of contemporary life, an awkward transitory phase in the first beginnings of the travel age
of mankind.

No doubt the Utopian will travel in many ways. It is unlikely there will be any smoke-disgorging
steam railway trains in Utopia, they are already doomed on earth, already threatened with that
obsolescence that will endear them to the Ruskins of to-morrow, but a thin spider's web of
inconspicuous special routes will cover the land of the world, pierce the mountain masses and
tunnel under the seas. These may be double railways or monorails or what not--we are no engineers
to judge between such devices--but by means of them the Utopian will travel about the earth
from one chief point to another at a speed of two or three hundred miles or more an hour. That
will abolish the greater distances.... One figures these main communications as something after
the manner of corridor trains, smooth-running and roomy, open from end to end, with cars in
which one may sit and read, cars in which one may take refreshment, cars into which the news
of the day comes printing itself from the wires beside the track; cars in which one may have
privacy and sleep if one is so disposed, bath-room cars, library cars; a train as comfortable
as a good club. There will be no distinctions of class in such a train, because in a civilised
world there would be no offence between one kind of man and another, and for the good of the
whole world such travelling will be as cheap as it can be, and well within the reach of any
but the almost criminally poor.

