Plaintiff urged that he was a labouring-man, who worked eight hours a day. The court was at
once adjourned, while restoratives were applied to the Bench.

On the resumption of the proceedings it was explained that since the passing of the Two Hours
Maximum Day Bill the supply of labour had been inadequate to meet the demands made upon it,
and plaintiff had patriotically filled four posts, at the minimum rate of fifteen shillings
an hour. It was while he was hurrying from one sphere of activity to another that the collision
occurred, resulting in injury to the plaintiff's mud-guard and loss of valuable time.

Defendant, who admitted negligence, pleaded poverty and threw himself upon the mercy of the Court.

The Bench, in summing up, called the jury's attention to the fact that defendant was not a
labourer, but only a professional man; at the same time he reminded them of the impartiality
of British justice, which did not admit that there was one law for the rich and another for
the poor. Even the wealthiest labouring-man must be protected in the exercise of his inalienable
right to work.

The accompanying photograph shows the plaintiff in the act of assisting to build a wall.; He
is a self-made man, having started life as a solicitor and by sheer perseverance raised himself
to the lucrative and responsible' position of an unskilled bricklayer's labourer.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO M. GEORGES CLEMENCEAU.

  Strong son of France, whose words were ever lit
  By lightning flashes of ironic wit;
  More fond of power than of pelf or place,
  Eternal foeman of the mean and base,
  And always ready in a righteous cause
  To suffer odium and contemn applause--
  Men call you still the "tiger," but the name
  Has long outworn the faintest hint of blame,
  Since in your country's direst hour of need
  You have revealed your true heroic breed;
  A tiger--yes, to enemies and Huns,
  But trusted, idolised, by France's sons.
  So when of late a traitor's felon blow
  Was like to lay you, old and ailing, low,
  And France was sorely stricken in her Chief,
  The wide world shared her anguish--and relief;
  For the assassin, resolute to kill,
  Was foiled by your indomitable will.
  Immortal France! she cannot spare you yet,
  Till you have paid in full your filial debt,
  And by the great Redemption and Release
  Stamped Victory with the final seal of Peace.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, February 24th.--The mantle of the lamented Mr. JOSEPH KING, whose taste in protégés
was so remarkable, seems to have descended upon Colonel WEDGWOOD. His request for the return
to this country of LAJPAT RAI, "the Indian patriot," aroused a storm of objection from other
hon. Members, who considered the description inapplicable to a person deported for sedition.
But it was quickly quelled by the SPEAKER with the unanswerable assertion that "everybody calls
himself a patriot in these days."

Mr. RAPER sought an assurance that no "wrack"--which appears to be a term of art in the timber
trade--should be used in the houses to be erected under the Government's new housing scheme.
If these were not to be "the unsubstantial fabric of a vision," he implied, the official builders
had better leave the wrack behind.

Something is at last to be done to reduce the growing plague of Questions. Hitherto each Member
has been entitled to put down eight Questions for oral reply on any one day. But in future
no one is to be permitted to "star" more than four Questions per diem. Even that is regarded
by some Members as an extravagant allowance. Major HENNESSY, I understand, thinks "three stars"
enough for any man.

"The Government is not a trustee for one class, but for all," was the leading theme of the
PRIME MINISTER'S firm and tactful speech in introducing the Coal Industry Commission Bill.
He was studiously conciliatory to the miners, but made it plain that they could not be allowed
to put a pistol at the head of the general community.

The miners appear, however, to be in the mood of the little girl who said, "I don't want to
go to bed; I want to be in bed." The gist of eloquent speeches delivered on their behalf by
Mr. HARTSHORN and Mr. RICHARDS was that the Government already possessed all the relevant facts,
and should give the desired relief at once. But they mustered only 43 in the Division Lobby
against 257 for the Second Reading.

Tuesday, February 25th.--Their Lordships resumed their debate on Industrial Unrest. Lord RUSSELL
attributed it mainly to ignorance--on the part of the capitalists and the newspapers, who,
with few exceptions, never gave fair play to Labour. He was supported to some extent by His
Grace of YORK, who declared that, after a perusal of the Labour Press and the non-Labour Press,
he could hardly believe they were dealing with the same subject.

Up to almost the eleventh hour the Committee stage of the Coal Commission Bill in the Commons
was not encouraging. The Labour representatives moved amendment after amendment, designed either
to wreck the measure or to make the Commission a mere registration-office to approve their
own cut-and-dried plans.

Mr. RICHARDS moved to omit wages and hours from its purview, but the House, brought up in the
belief that Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark is but a poor play, voted him down by 270 to 40.

Then came another question-begging amendment from Mr. ADAMSON, suggesting that the Commission's
inquiries into the possibilities of reorganising the mines should be limited to the single
question of "nationalization"--the "blessed word" of Labour just now. This was supported in
a capital maiden speech by Mr. SPOOR, an ex-pitman, whose father and son are both in the mines,
and by Mr. CLYNES, who rather unreasonably complained that the HOME SECRETARY made SHORTT speeches;
but it shared the same fate.

Not till the Bill was nearly through Committee was there any sign of rapprochement. Then, in
response to the persuasive purring of Mr. BRACE, who had urged that the Commission should issue
an interim report on wages and hours by March 12th, the PRIME MINISTER declared that, after
consultation with Mr. Justice SANKEY, he was prepared to promise that the report should be
ready on March 20th. A smile, extending almost to the extreme limits of his moustache, spread
over Mr. BRACE'S benevolent countenance. Thenceforward all was peace, and the Third Reading
was carried without a division.

Wednesday, February 26th.--The Lords passed the Coal Industry Commission Bill through all its
stages without a pause. Then Lord DEVONPORT expatiated on the mistakes of the Food Controllers
with such a wealth of illustration that the LORD CHANCELLOR, who is fond of Classical "tags,"
was heard to murmur, "Omnium consensu capax imperil nisi imperasset."

A Second Reading was given to the Re-election of Ministers Bill, on the plea of the LORD CHANCELLOR
that until it is passed several of his Ministerial colleagues will be nantes in gurgite vasto--or,
in other words, all at sea.

Rumours that a new Department of Public Information was to be set up excited much curiosity
in the Commons, but only negative replies were received. The Department, if, and when, it comes
into existence, is not to advertise the virtues of the Coalition, nor is it to publish a newspaper
of its own; though, to judge by the leaflets, circulars and communiqués issued by the existing
Ministries in the course of the week, such an organ would certainly not perish for lack of copy.

The so-called Ten Minutes' Rule was originally intended for the introduction of comparatively
unimportant Bills. This after-noon Mr. SHORTT employed it for the purpose of explaining the
provisions of one of the most revolutionary and comprehensive measures ever brought forward
in any country. Briefly it is to put under the control of a single Minister of Ways and Communications
our railways, our canals, our roads, and also our supply of electricity, hitherto in the hands
of hundreds of public companies and local authorities. Only on one point did the Bill meet
with opposition. I do not know whether Mr. JOYNSON HICKS claims any connection with Hicks's
Hall, which stands in the old road-books as the starting-point of the great highway to the
North, but he became almost lyrical in his denunciation of the proposal to put all the roads
in the country in charge of a railwayman like Sir ERIC GEDDES. They ought, in his opinion,
to be under the care of someone "born on roads" and "trained on roads"--a sort of super-tramp,
I suppose.

Thursday, February 27th.--To an appeal for an increase in the pensions of Crimea and Mutiny
veterans, to meet the rise in the cost of living, response was made that such an increase would
be granted in the case of those not over seventy years of age. It is not thought that the concession
will cause a heavy drain on the national resources, few of the veterans having joined up before
entering their 'teens.

As a retort, "Yah! German!" is, I am told, already considered vieux jeu by the wits of the
pavement. But Ulstermen and Nationalists still think it effective to twit one another with
having been supplied with rifles from the arsenals of the Bosch. They bandied charges and contradictions
so vigorously this afternoon that the SPEAKER had to intervene to put an end to these "nonsensical
bickerings."

The SECRETARY OP THE TREASURY scouted the suggestion that County cricket-matches should be
exempted from the entertainment tax. It is believed that his answer was based solely upon financial
considerations, and that he must not be held to have expressed the opinion that first-class
cricket, as played by certain counties, is, in point of fact, entertaining.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "German residents in South-west Africa have forwarded the
    Administrator a petition for transmission to President Wilson,
    claiming permission to erect a republic union with the Republic
    of Germany. The petitioners claim that they not only represent a
    majority of the white inhabitants, but interpret the views of
    the wishes of the majority of the majority of the ahmbahmbahmbah
    natives."

    New Zealand Paper.

We should like to know more of this remarkable tribe, which, inter alia, seems to have evolved
a new method of proportional representation.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RED WINE OF THE COUNTRY.

"Did I iver tell ye," asked ex-Sergeant O'Reilly, filling his pipe from my tobacco-jar, "about
the red wine?"

"I remember a story about sparkling Burgundy," I said.

"Och, that wouldn't be it at all. 'Twas another time altogither."

"Well," I said, "tell me about the red wine."

"'Twas this way." O'Reilly leant back in his chair, covered his maimed hand with a pocket-handkerchief--a
curious way he had--and looked at me with that expression of openness and simplicity which
demands confidence. "We was 'way back o' the line at the time, at a place where ye'd expect
to get a taste o' rest; but what wid fancy attacks an' 'special coorses' (thim 's the divil
an' all!) there wasn't enough rest for an honest man to get into mischief. Well, there was
to be a grand inshpection by a tremenjus brass-hat, one o' thim soort all over ribbons that
rides wid a shtiff back. 'Twas the mornin' before the great day whin the O.C. comes to me all
of a flutter, an' says he, 'Sergint, ye've a chanct now to do me a good turn.'

"'I'll do it, Sorr,' says I, 'if it costs me my shtripes.'

"'The fact is,' says he, 'we've run out o' claret, an' there's no dacent shtuff to be had for
twinty miles round; annyway, that's what I'm tould. Now the Gin'ral has a great fancy for red
wine.'

"''Tis a sad business,' says I.

"'I've heard it whispered,' says the poor man, an' he wid the D.S.O. an' all, 'that where there's
a good dhrop o' dhrink you're the man to find it. An',' says he, 'there's no discredit to ye
in that, O'Reilly.'

"'Indeed no, Sorr,' says I; ''tis a gift.'

"'Well,' says he, 'would ye use that same gift of yours for the honour o' the Rig'mint?'"

O'Reilly felt in his pocket for a tobacco-stopper, attended carefully to his pipe and again
fixed me with his candid gaze.

"'There's a bit of a place 'way back,' says I, 'where I've a fancy I might find somethin'.'

"Wid that he shtuck a bunch o' notes in me hand. 'Don't shpare the cost,' says he, 'but get
it. 'Tis up to you, Sergint, to save a disp'rit situation.'"

"It was a terrible responsibility," I said.

"Ye may say that. Whin I was alone wid thim notes bulgin' in me tunic, I'd a notion I might
let down the Rig'mint afther all, an' that would have bruk me heart. But off I wint to see
Achille. 'Twas four miles to the village, an' I wint on my blessed feet, an' by the time I
got to the place I was as nervous as a mouse in a thrap. Achille's shop wasn't a café or an
estaminet or a buvette or anny o' thim places. He had a bit of a brass plate on his door wid
'Marchand de Vins' on it. I knew him by raison of a fancy that took me wan day for a dhrop
o' brandy. So I wint in through Achille's door wid thim notes as hot in me pocket as Patsy
Donelly's pipe.

"Achille hopped out o' the little room at the hack same's a bird out of a cage. 'Ah,' says
he, 'that was good cognac, eh? You shall have more, me son.'

"'Achille,' says I, ''tis a shtrange thing, but there's niver a thought o' cognac in me mind
at all. 'Tis red wine, the best, that I'm afther.'

"'Red wine!' says he. 'I haven't a litre o' red wine in the cellars.'

"'Holy Powers!' says I, 'an' you wid "Marchand de Vins" on yer door.' The shock of it took
the breath out o' me entirely. So I sat up on the counter to think.

"''Tis a matther,' says I, 'that concerns the Rig'mint, a rig'mint that was niver bate yet.'
An' I explained about the Gin'ral an' what the O.C. tould me. An' thin I tuk the notes from
me pocket an' put thim on the counther undher his eyes.

"'Ach,' says he, ''tisn't money I want from ye, but to hilp a frind.' Then he folded his arms
an' his forehead wint up into a puzzle o' wrinkles.

"'An' why wouldn't white wine do?' says he.

"'Is it offer white wine to a Gin'ral an' him wid a taste for red?' says I. 'It might rouse
him terrible. Now, Achille,' says I, 'would there be no way of makin' the white red?'"

O'Reilly put a persuasiveness into the last words that revealed Achille to me as an honest
merchant confronted with the most subtle of temptations.

"O'Reilly," I said, "was that fair?"

"Maybe not, but I'd the Gin'ral an' the honour o' the Rig'mint fixed in me mind. 'That's a
good joke, very good,' says Achille; but thore was niver a smile on his face.

"'I 'd no intintion to make anny joke,' says I. 'Come, Achille, you're a knowin' man. Would
there be no way at all?'

"Now it happened that he'd lift the door o' the little room open, an' I could see a bit o'
a garden through the window. 'What's the shtuff growin' out there,' says I, 'wid the dark red
leaves to it, or maybe ye'd call thim purple?'

"'That's beet,' says he with a kind of a groan.

"'Beet,' says I. 'An' isn't beet a red kind of a thing an' mighty full o' juice?'

"'It is that,' says he, wid the eyes of him almost out o' his head.

"'Then how would it be,' says I, 'to touch up the white wine wid some o' that same juice?'

"'The thought was in me mind, God help me,' says he, an' wid that he sat up on the counther
forninst me, an' we shtared into the garden like two men in a play.

"'Would it make the wine cloudy?' says I.

"'I could filter it so's it'd come as clear as sunshine,' says he.

"'An' how would it be for taste?' says I.

"Achille put a hand on me arm an' I could feel him shakin' like a man wid the ague.

"'Heaven forgive me,' says he, 'but ye might say it was the wine o' the counthry, an' that
taste was the mark of it.' 'Tis my belief he was near cryin', for he was an honest man, an'
'twas for me he was lowerin' himself to deceit."

"You were a nice pair," I said.

"'Twas a beautiful schame," O'Reilly went on. "I was niver concerned in a betther."

"Did it come off?" I asked.

"To a turn," said O'Reilly. "We was docthorin' that blissed wine for the best part o' the day,
an' I tuk back a dozen bottles to camp. The O.C. was hangin' round, as anxious as a dog for
his master.

"'Have ye the wine, O'Reilly?' says he.

"'I have, sorr,' says I; 'but I'd be glad if ye'd ask me no questions about it.'

"'Not for the world,' says he, givin' me a queer look, an' was off like a mountain hare."

"Did the General recover?" I asked.

"That wine made a new man of him. He praised the Rig'mint up to the heighths. We was the pink
o' the Army, bedad! The throuble was he wanted to know where he'd get more o' that same wine.

"'There's no more to be had,' says I to the O.C., for I was done wid the job.

"'He says it has a powerful bouquet,' says the O.C.

"'That may be,' says I, 'but he'll niver taste the like of it agin. 'Twas an ould wine o' the
counthry, an' there's niver been the match of it before or since.'

"'Couldn't it be managed annyhow?' says the O.C.

"'Not for all the Gin'rals in the British army,' says I. 'Twas for the love o' the Rig'mint
I got that wine, an' I 'm done wid the job.'"

"Is that the end?" I asked.

"Barrin' this," said O'Reilly. And he produced from his pocket a silver cigarette case, inside
which was engraved, "To Sergeant Dennis O'Reilly, who saved the situation, October 15th, 1917."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "No, thank you; I hate publicity.--Lord Jellicoe, in reply to a
    request for a farewell massage."--Provincial Paper.

We agree with the gallant Admiral that such operations are better conducted in private.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It was stated that the cow took ill, and died on 23rd June last,
    and the purser now claimed the value of the animal, namely, £5O,
    and also a further sum of £5, being the loss which he sustained
    through the want of milk, butter, and cheese, supplied by said
    cow from the date of her death to the date of the raising of the
    action."--Scots Paper.

"Faithful unto death"--and a bit over.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ART OF LEAVING.

If I had a son one of the first things I should teach him would be the art of leaving. I would
have him swift in all ways, but swiftest when the time came to go. And when he went he should
go absolutely. For although the people who leave slowly are bad enough, they are as nothing
compared with the people who make false exits and return with afterthoughts.

The other day the necessity came for me to visit a house agent. Life has these chequered moments.
There is something of despatch and order wanting about most house-agents, possibly the result
of their very odd and difficult business, which is for the greater part carried on with people
who don't know their own minds and apparently are least likely to take an eligible residence
when they most profess satisfaction with it. Be that as it may, house agents' offices in general
have a want of definiteness unknown to, say, banks or pawnbrokers'. There is no exact spot
for you to stand or sit; you are unaware as to which of the clerks is going to attend to you,
and the odds are heavy that the one you approach will transfer you to another. There is also
a certain air of familiarity or friendliness: not, of course, approaching the camaraderie of
the dealer in motor cars, who leans against the wall with his hands in his pockets and talks
to customers through a cigarette; but something much more human than the attitude of a female
clerk in a post-office.

Being pressed for time and having only the very briefest transaction to perform, it follows
that I was kept waiting for my turn with "our Mr. Plausible," in whose optimistic hands my
affairs at the moment repose.

Occupying his far too tolerant ear was another client, whose need was a country house surrounded
by enough grass-land for a small stud farm.

This is what happened (he had, by the way, the only chair at that desk):--

Our Mr. Plausible (for the fortieth time). I understand perfectly. A nice house, out-buildings
and about twenty acres of meadow.

Client. Twenty to thirty.

Our Mr. P. Yes, or thirty.

C. You see, what I want is to breed stock--cattle and horses too.

Our Mr. P. Exactly. Well, the three places I have given you are all well-adapted.

C. When a man gets to my age and has put a little money by he may just as well take it quietly
as not. I don't want a real farm; I want just a smallish place where I can play at raising
pedigree animals.

Our Mr. P. That's just the kind of place I've given you. The one near Newbury is probably the
most suitable. I should see that first, and then the one near Alton.

C. You understand, I don't want a big farm. Anybody else can have the arable. Just a comfortable
house and some meadows; about twenty acres or even thirty.

Our Mr. P. The biggest one I've given you is thirty. The place near Newbury is twenty-three.

C. Well, I'11 go and see them as soon as I can. [Gets up.

Our Mr. P. The sooner the better, I should advise. There's a great demand for country-houses
just now.

C.(sitting solidly down again). Ah, yes, but this is different. What I want is not so much
a country-house in the ordinary meaning of the term as a farm-house, but without possessing
a farm. Just enough buildings and meadow-land to breed a few shorthorns and a yearling or two.
The house must be comfortable, you know, roomy, but not anything pretentious. [Gets up again.

Our Mr.P. I quite understand. That's just what I've given you.

C. (again seating himself). The whole scheme may be foolishness. My wife says it is. But (here
I believe I groaned audibly; at any rate all the other clerks looked up) there it is. When
a man has enough to retire on and pay the piper he's entitled to call the tune; isn't he?

[At this point I resist the temptation to take him by the shoulders and push him out.

Our Mr. P. Quite, quite. Well, Sir, if you take my advice you'11 go to Newbury as quickly as
you can. It's a first-rate place--most highly recommended.

[Here the client very deliberately puts the three "orders to view" in his inside pocket and
slowly buttons his coat. I flutter on tiptoe, eager for his chair.

C. If these won't do you'11 find me some more?

Our Mr. P. With pleasure.

C. Very well; good morning.

[Moves away. I have just begun to speak when he returns.

C. Don't forget what I want it for. And not too far from London or my wife will dislike it.

Our Mr. P. Yes, you told me that. I've got a note of it here.

C. And you won't forget about the acreage?

Our Mr. P. No."

C.(addressing me). I'm afraid I've kept you waiting.

I (like the craven liar I am). It's all right.

[Client ultimately withdraws, but still with reluctance, and after two or three hesitations
and half-turns back.

And the tragic part of it is that his name is Legion.

That is why if I had a boy I should teach him the art of leaving. Almost nothing else matters.

       *       *       *       *       *

OFFICIAL EUPHEMISM.

DR. ADDISON has stated that for some time past it has been the practice riot to use the word
"pauper" in official documents when it was possible to use another expression; and no well-conditioned
person will cavil at the spirit which has prompted the use of a less invidious substitute.
But surely the process might be carried a good deal further. The practice of giving a dog a
bad name is not only condemned by the proverbial philosophy of the ancients but by the most
emancipated of the orthopsychical educationists of to-day.

If you keep on calling a man a "criminal," you will end by making him one. How much wiser it
would be to refer to the impulses which occasionally bring him into conflict with the custodians
of law and order as emanating from a dynamic individualism! In that way you may very possibly
convert him into a static individualist and sterilize his potential malignance by a subliminal
serum..

The amount of harm done by disparaging nomenclature is incalculable. Take the word "thief,"
for example. Its meaning can be expressed with infinitely greater precision and delicacy in
the phrase, "one who is unable to discriminate between meum and tuum." Here you have in place
of one mean little word a well-cadenced phrase of ten. Euphony as well as humanity prompts
the variation.

Classical writers may have objected to the use of sesquipedalian words, but we know better,
and Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL'S famous synonym for "lie" is permanently enshrined in the annals
of circumlocution. One of the most offensive words in the language is "idiot"; yet it can be
shorn of nearly all its sting when replaced by the definition, "a person of infra-normal mentality."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "London, Dec. 16.--At a meeting of the County Cricket Advisory
    Committee it was decided to run the County Championship during
    1919, the matches to be limited to two days. There will be no
    change in the number of balls in the over.--Reuter's.

    The Soviets are preparing the sharpest
    counter-measure.--Reuter's."--Canton Times.

But we are confident that whatever the Soviets' little game is it will not be cricket.

       *       *       *       *       *

STATE LOTTERIES.

    [An Equality Theatre is being-run in Munich, where the public pays
    a fixed price and is allotted by chance a seat in the stalls or
    the gallery.]

  The Equality plan we will run if we can
    So that never a man or a woman need grumble--
  If theatres, should the idea not include
    Books, clothing and food for the great and the humble?
  You will pay a fixed sum and accept what may come,
    Be it loser or plum; and, to shun all that vexes,
  We'll even eliminate what modern women hate,
    And will not discriminate as to the sexes.

  The question of dress may at first, I confess,
    Make a sort of a mess of our smart Small-and-Earlies,
  Where the First Footman John wears the garb of a don,
    And Lord CURZON comes on from the House in his pearlies;
  But when our char kneels on the steps and reveals
    The last word in "Lucilles," will she not put her heart more
  And more in her duties while great social beauties
    Slink by in "pampooties" and arrows from Dartmoor?

  Our tastes and our breeding no more will be leading
    The paths of our reading; we'll read what we've got to
  (And it will be a sell for Mamma if her Nell
    Gets the last ETHEL DELL, when Mamma told her not to);
  It may be a worry to poor GILBERT MURRAY
    To read Hints on Curry and Blouses and Batter
  In Home Chat, it's true; but still more of a stew
    The Occult Review may appear to his hatter.

