INTRODUCTION AND ANALYSIS.

The Critias is a fragment which breaks off in the middle of a sentence. It was designed to
be the second part of a trilogy, which, like the other great Platonic trilogy of the Sophist,
Statesman, Philosopher, was never completed. Timaeus had brought down the origin of the world
to the creation of man, and the dawn of history was now to succeed the philosophy of nature.
The Critias is also connected with the Republic. Plato, as he has already told us (Tim.), intended
to represent the ideal state engaged in a patriotic conflict. This mythical conflict is prophetic
or symbolical of the struggle of Athens and Persia, perhaps in some degree also of the wars
of the Greeks and Carthaginians, in the same way that the Persian is prefigured by the Trojan
war to the mind of Herodotus, or as the narrative of the first part of the Aeneid is intended
by Virgil to foreshadow the wars of Carthage and Rome. The small number of the primitive Athenian
citizens (20,000), 'which is about their present number' (Crit.), is evidently designed to
contrast with the myriads and barbaric array of the Atlantic hosts. The passing remark in the
Timaeus that Athens was left alone in the struggle, in which she conquered and became the liberator
of Greece, is also an allusion to the later history. Hence we may safely conclude that the
entire narrative is due to the imagination of Plato, who has used the name of Solon and introduced
the Egyptian priests to give verisimilitude to his story. To the Greek such a tale, like that
of the earth-born men, would have seemed perfectly accordant with the character of his mythology,
and not more marvellous than the wonders of the East narrated by Herodotus and others: he might
have been deceived into believing it. But it appears strange that later ages should have been
imposed upon by the fiction.

Timaeus concludes with a prayer that his words may be acceptable to the God whom he has revealed,
and Critias, whose turn follows, begs that a larger measure of indulgence may be conceded to
him, because he has to speak of men whom we know and not of gods whom we do not know. Socrates
readily grants his request, and anticipating that Hermocrates will make a similar petition,
extends by anticipation a like indulgence to him.

Critias returns to his story, professing only to repeat what Solon was told by the priests.
The war of which he was about to speak had occurred 9000 years ago. One of the combatants was
the city of Athens, the other was the great island of Atlantis. Critias proposes to speak of
these rival powers first of all, giving to Athens the precedence; the various tribes of Greeks
and barbarians who took part in the war will be dealt with as they successively appear on the
scene.

In the beginning the gods agreed to divide the earth by lot in a friendly manner, and when
they had made the allotment they settled their several countries, and were the shepherds or
rather the pilots of mankind, whom they guided by persuasion, and not by force. Hephaestus
and Athena, brother and sister deities, in mind and art united, obtained as their lot the land
of Attica, a land suited to the growth of virtue and wisdom; and there they settled a brave
race of children of the soil, and taught them how to order the state. Some of their names,
such as Cecrops, Erechtheus, Erichthonius, and Erysichthon, were preserved and adopted in later
times, but the memory of their deeds has passed away; for there have since been many deluges,
and the remnant who survived in the mountains were ignorant of the art of writing, and during
many generations were wholly devoted to acquiring the means of life...And the armed image of
the goddess which was dedicated by the ancient Athenians is an evidence to other ages that
men and women had in those days, as they ought always to have, common virtues and pursuits.
There were various classes of citizens, including handicraftsmen and husbandmen and a superior
class of warriors who dwelt apart, and were educated, and had all things in common, like our
guardians. Attica in those days extended southwards to the Isthmus, and inland to the heights
of Parnes and Cithaeron, and between them and the sea included the district of Oropus. The
country was then, as what remains of it still is, the most fertile in the world, and abounded
in rich plains and pastures. But in the course of ages much of the soil was washed away and
disappeared in the deep sea. And the inhabitants of this fair land were endowed with intelligence
and the love of beauty.

The Acropolis of the ancient Athens extended to the Ilissus and Eridanus, and included the
Pnyx, and the Lycabettus on the opposite side to the Pnyx, having a level surface and deep
soil. The side of the hill was inhabited by craftsmen and husbandmen; and the warriors dwelt
by themselves on the summit, around the temples of Hephaestus and Athene, in an enclosure which
was like the garden of a single house. In winter they retired into houses on the north of the
hill, in which they held their syssitia. These were modest dwellings, which they bequeathed
unaltered to their children's children. In summer time the south side was inhabited by them,
and then they left their gardens and dining-halls. In the midst of the Acropolis was a fountain,
which gave an abundant supply of cool water in summer and warm in winter; of this there are
still some traces. They were careful to preserve the number of fighting men and women at 20,000,
which is equal to that of the present military force. And so they passed their lives as guardians
of the citizens and leaders of the Hellenes. They were a just and famous race, celebrated for
their beauty and virtue all over Europe and Asia.

And now I will speak to you of their adversaries, but first I ought to explain that the Greek
names were given to Solon in an Egyptian form, and he enquired their meaning and translated
them. His manuscript was left with my grandfather Dropides, and is now in my possession...In
the division of the earth Poseidon obtained as his portion the island of Atlantis, and there
he begat children whose mother was a mortal. Towards the sea and in the centre of the island
there was a very fair and fertile plain, and near the centre, about fifty stadia from the plain,
there was a low mountain in which dwelt a man named Evenor and his wife Leucippe, and their
daughter Cleito, of whom Poseidon became enamoured. He to secure his love enclosed the mountain
with rings or zones varying in size, two of land and three of sea, which his divine power readily
enabled him to excavate and fashion, and, as there was no shipping in those days, no man could
get into the place. To the interior island he conveyed under the earth springs of water hot
and cold, and supplied the land with all things needed for the life of man. Here he begat a
family consisting of five pairs of twin male children. The eldest was Atlas, and him he made
king of the centre island, while to his twin brother, Eumelus, or Gadeirus, he assigned that
part of the country which was nearest the Straits. The other brothers he made chiefs over the
rest of the island. And their kingdom extended as far as Egypt and Tyrrhenia. Now Atlas had
a fair posterity, and great treasures derived from mines--among them that precious metal orichalcum;
and there was abundance of wood, and herds of elephants, and pastures for animals of all kinds,
and fragrant herbs, and grasses, and trees bearing fruit. These they used, and employed themselves
in constructing their temples, and palaces, and harbours, and docks, in the following manner:--First,
they bridged over the zones of sea, and made a way to and from the royal palace which they
built in the centre island. This ancient palace was ornamented by successive generations; and
they dug a canal which passed through the zones of land from the island to the sea. The zones
of earth were surrounded by walls made of stone of divers colours, black and white and red,
which they sometimes intermingled for the sake of ornament; and as they quarried they hollowed
out beneath the edges of the zones double docks having roofs of rock. The outermost of the
walls was coated with brass, the second with tin, and the third, which was the wall of the
citadel, flashed with the red light of orichalcum. In the interior of the citadel was a holy
temple, dedicated to Cleito and Poseidon, and surrounded by an enclosure of gold, and there
was Poseidon's own temple, which was covered with silver, and the pinnacles with gold. The
roof was of ivory, adorned with gold and silver and orichalcum, and the rest of the interior
was lined with orichalcum. Within was an image of the god standing in a chariot drawn by six
winged horses, and touching the roof with his head; around him were a hundred Nereids, riding
on dolphins. Outside the temple were placed golden statues of all the descendants of the ten
kings and of their wives; there was an altar too, and there were palaces, corresponding to
the greatness and glory both of the kingdom and of the temple.

Also there were fountains of hot and cold water, and suitable buildings surrounding them, and
trees, and there were baths both of the kings and of private individuals, and separate baths
for women, and also for cattle. The water from the baths was carried to the grove of Poseidon,
and by aqueducts over the bridges to the outer circles. And there were temples in the zones,
and in the larger of the two there was a racecourse for horses, which ran all round the island.
The guards were distributed in the zones according to the trust reposed in them; the most trusted
of them were stationed in the citadel. The docks were full of triremes and stores. The land
between the harbour and the sea was surrounded by a wall, and was crowded with dwellings, and
the harbour and canal resounded with the din of human voices.

The plain around the city was highly cultivated and sheltered from the north by mountains;
it was oblong, and where falling out of the straight line followed the circular ditch, which
was of an incredible depth. This depth received the streams which came down from the mountains,
as well as the canals of the interior, and found a way to the sea. The entire country was divided
into sixty thousand lots, each of which was a square of ten stadia; and the owner of a lot
was bound to furnish the sixth part of a war-chariot, so as to make up ten thousand chariots,
two horses and riders upon them, a pair of chariot-horses without a seat, and an attendant
and charioteer, two hoplites, two archers, two slingers, three stone-shooters, three javelin-men,
and four sailors to make up the complement of twelve hundred ships.

Each of the ten kings was absolute in his own city and kingdom. The relations of the different
governments to one another were determined by the injunctions of Poseidon, which had been inscribed
by the first kings on a column of orichalcum in the temple of Poseidon, at which the kings
and princes gathered together and held a festival every fifth and every sixth year alternately.
Around the temple ranged the bulls of Poseidon, one of which the ten kings caught and sacrificed,
shedding the blood of the victim over the inscription, and vowing not to transgress the laws
of their father Poseidon. When night came, they put on azure robes and gave judgment against
offenders. The most important of their laws related to their dealings with one another. They
were not to take up arms against one another, and were to come to the rescue if any of their
brethren were attacked. They were to deliberate in common about war, and the king was not to
have the power of life and death over his kinsmen, unless he had the assent of the majority.

For many generations, as tradition tells, the people of Atlantis were obedient to the laws
and to the gods, and practised gentleness and wisdom in their intercourse with one another.
They knew that they could only have the true use of riches by not caring about them. But gradually
the divine portion of their souls became diluted with too much of the mortal admixture, and
they began to degenerate, though to the outward eye they appeared glorious as ever at the very
time when they were filled with all iniquity. The all-seeing Zeus, wanting to punish them,
held a council of the gods, and when he had called them together, he spoke as follows:--

No one knew better than Plato how to invent 'a noble lie.' Observe (1) the innocent declaration
of Socrates, that the truth of the story is a great advantage: (2) the manner in which traditional
names and indications of geography are intermingled ('Why, here be truths!'): (3) the extreme
minuteness with which the numbers are given, as in the Old Epic poetry: (4) the ingenious reason
assigned for the Greek names occurring in the Egyptian tale: (5) the remark that the armed
statue of Athena indicated the common warrior life of men and women: (6) the particularity
with which the third deluge before that of Deucalion is affirmed to have been the great destruction:
(7) the happy guess that great geological changes have been effected by water: (8) the indulgence
of the prejudice against sailing beyond the Columns, and the popular belief of the shallowness
of the ocean in that part: (9) the confession that the depth of the ditch in the Island of
Atlantis was not to be believed, and 'yet he could only repeat what he had heard', compared
with the statement made in an earlier passage that Poseidon, being a God, found no difficulty
in contriving the water-supply of the centre island: (10) the mention of the old rivalry of
Poseidon and Athene, and the creation of the first inhabitants out of the soil. Plato here,
as elsewhere, ingeniously gives the impression that he is telling the truth which mythology
had corrupted.

The world, like a child, has readily, and for the most part unhesitatingly, accepted the tale
of the Island of Atlantis. In modern times we hardly seek for traces of the submerged continent;
but even Mr. Grote is inclined to believe in the Egyptian poem of Solon of which there is no
evidence in antiquity; while others, like Martin, discuss the Egyptian origin of the legend,
or like M. de Humboldt, whom he quotes, are disposed to find in it a vestige of a widely-spread
tradition. Others, adopting a different vein of reflection, regard the Island of Atlantis as
the anticipation of a still greater island--the Continent of America. 'The tale,' says M. Martin,
'rests upon the authority of the Egyptian priests; and the Egyptian priests took a pleasure
in deceiving the Greeks.' He never appears to suspect that there is a greater deceiver or magician
than the Egyptian priests, that is to say, Plato himself, from the dominion of whose genius
the critic and natural philosopher of modern times are not wholly emancipated. Although worthless
in respect of any result which can be attained by them, discussions like those of M. Martin
(Timee) have an interest of their own, and may be compared to the similar discussions regarding
the Lost Tribes (2 Esdras), as showing how the chance word of some poet or philosopher has
given birth to endless religious or historical enquiries. (See Introduction to the Timaeus.)

In contrasting the small Greek city numbering about twenty thousand inhabitants with the barbaric
greatness of the island of Atlantis, Plato probably intended to show that a state, such as
the ideal Athens, was invincible, though matched against any number of opponents (cp. Rep.).
Even in a great empire there might be a degree of virtue and justice, such as the Greeks believed
to have existed under the sway of the first Persian kings. But all such empires were liable
to degenerate, and soon incurred the anger of the gods. Their Oriental wealth, and splendour
of gold and silver, and variety of colours, seemed also to be at variance with the simplicity
of Greek notions. In the island of Atlantis, Plato is describing a sort of Babylonian or Egyptian
city, to which he opposes the frugal life of the true Hellenic citizen. It is remarkable that
in his brief sketch of them, he idealizes the husbandmen 'who are lovers of honour and true
husbandmen,' as well as the warriors who are his sole concern in the Republic; and that though
he speaks of the common pursuits of men and women, he says nothing of the community of wives
and children.

It is singular that Plato should have prefixed the most detested of Athenian names to this
dialogue, and even more singular that he should have put into the mouth of Socrates a panegyric
on him (Tim.). Yet we know that his character was accounted infamous by Xenophon, and that
the mere acquaintance with him was made a subject of accusation against Socrates. We can only
infer that in this, and perhaps in some other cases, Plato's characters have no reference to
the actual facts. The desire to do honour to his own family, and the connection with Solon,
may have suggested the introduction of his name. Why the Critias was never completed, whether
from accident, or from advancing age, or from a sense of the artistic difficulty of the design,
cannot be determined.

CRITIAS.

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Critias, Hermocrates, Timaeus, Socrates.

TIMAEUS: How thankful I am, Socrates, that I have arrived at last, and, like a weary traveller
after a long journey, may be at rest! And I pray the being who always was of old, and has now
been by me revealed, to grant that my words may endure in so far as they have been spoken truly
and acceptably to him; but if unintentionally I have said anything wrong, I pray that he will
impose upon me a just retribution, and the just retribution of him who errs is that he should
be set right. Wishing, then, to speak truly in future concerning the generation of the gods,
I pray him to give me knowledge, which of all medicines is the most perfect and best. And now
having offered my prayer I deliver up the argument to Critias, who is to speak next according
to our agreement. (Tim.)

CRITIAS: And I, Timaeus, accept the trust, and as you at first said that you were going to
speak of high matters, and begged that some forbearance might be shown to you, I too ask the
same or greater forbearance for what I am about to say. And although I very well know that
my request may appear to be somewhat ambitious and discourteous, I must make it nevertheless.
For will any man of sense deny that you have spoken well? I can only attempt to show that I
ought to have more indulgence than you, because my theme is more difficult; and I shall argue
that to seem to speak well of the gods to men is far easier than to speak well of men to men:
for the inexperience and utter ignorance of his hearers about any subject is a great assistance
to him who has to speak of it, and we know how ignorant we are concerning the gods. But I should
like to make my meaning clearer, if you will follow me. All that is said by any of us can only
be imitation and representation. For if we consider the likenesses which painters make of bodies
divine and heavenly, and the different degrees of gratification with which the eye of the spectator
receives them, we shall see that we are satisfied with the artist who is able in any degree
to imitate the earth and its mountains, and the rivers, and the woods, and the universe, and
the things that are and move therein, and further, that knowing nothing precise about such
matters, we do not examine or analyze the painting; all that is required is a sort of indistinct
and deceptive mode of shadowing them forth. But when a person endeavours to paint the human
form we are quick at finding out defects, and our familiar knowledge makes us severe judges
of any one who does not render every point of similarity. And we may observe the same thing
to happen in discourse; we are satisfied with a picture of divine and heavenly things which
has very little likeness to them; but we are more precise in our criticism of mortal and human
things. Wherefore if at the moment of speaking I cannot suitably express my meaning, you must
excuse me, considering that to form approved likenesses of human things is the reverse of easy.
This is what I want to suggest to you, and at the same time to beg, Socrates, that I may have
not less, but more indulgence conceded to me in what I am about to say. Which favour, if I
am right in asking, I hope that you will be ready to grant.

SOCRATES: Certainly, Critias, we will grant your request, and we will grant the same by anticipation
to Hermocrates, as well as to you and Timaeus; for I have no doubt that when his turn comes
a little while hence, he will make the same request which you have made. In order, then, that
he may provide himself with a fresh beginning, and not be compelled to say the same things
over again, let him understand that the indulgence is already extended by anticipation to him.
And now, friend Critias, I will announce to you the judgment of the theatre. They are of opinion
that the last performer was wonderfully successful, and that you will need a great deal of
indulgence before you will be able to take his place.

HERMOCRATES: The warning, Socrates, which you have addressed to him, I must also take to myself.
But remember, Critias, that faint heart never yet raised a trophy; and therefore you must go
and attack the argument like a man. First invoke Apollo and the Muses, and then let us hear
you sound the praises and show forth the virtues of your ancient citizens.

CRITIAS: Friend Hermocrates, you, who are stationed last and have another in front of you,
have not lost heart as yet; the gravity of the situation will soon be revealed to you; meanwhile
I accept your exhortations and encouragements. And now, making no more excuses, I will proceed.
The progress of the history will unfold the various nations of barbarians and families of Hellenes
which then existed, as they successively appear on the scene; but I must describe first of
all the Athenians of that day, and their enemies who fought with them, and then the respective
powers and governments of the two kingdoms. Let us give the precedence to Athens.

In the days of old, the gods had the whole earth distributed among them by allotment (Cp. Polit.)
There was no quarrelling; for you cannot rightly suppose that the gods did not know what was
proper for each of them to have, or, knowing this, that they would seek to procure for themselves
by contention that which more properly belonged to others. They all of them by just apportionment
obtained what they wanted, and peopled their own districts; and when they had peopled them
they tended us, their nurselings and possessions, as shepherds tend their flocks, excepting
only that they did not use blows or bodily force, as shepherds do, but governed us like pilots
from the stern of the vessel, which is an easy way of guiding animals, holding our souls by
the rudder of persuasion according to their own pleasure;--thus did they guide all mortal creatures.
Now different gods had their allotments in different places which they set in order. Hephaestus
and Athene, who were brother and sister, and sprang from the same father, having a common nature,
and being united also in the love of philosophy and art, both obtained as their common portion
this land, which was naturally adapted for wisdom and virtue; and there they implanted brave
children of the soil, and put into their minds the order of government; their names are preserved,
but their actions have disappeared by reason of the destruction of those who received the tradition,
and the lapse of ages. For when there were any survivors, as I have already said, they were
men who dwelt in the mountains; and they were ignorant of the art of writing, and had heard
only the names of the chiefs of the land, but very little about their actions. The names they
were willing enough to give to their children; but the virtues and the laws of their predecessors,
they knew only by obscure traditions; and as they themselves and their children lacked for
many generations the necessaries of life, they directed their attention to the supply of their
wants, and of them they conversed, to the neglect of events that had happened in times long
past; for mythology and the enquiry into antiquity are first introduced into cities when they
begin to have leisure (Cp. Arist. Metaphys.), and when they see that the necessaries of life
have already been provided, but not before. And this is the reason why the names of the ancients
have been preserved to us and not their actions. This I infer because Solon said that the priests
in their narrative of that war mentioned most of the names which are recorded prior to the
time of Theseus, such as Cecrops, and Erechtheus, and Erichthonius, and Erysichthon, and the
names of the women in like manner. Moreover, since military pursuits were then common to men
and women, the men of those days in accordance with the custom of the time set up a figure
and image of the goddess in full armour, to be a testimony that all animals which associate
together, male as well as female, may, if they please, practise in common the virtue which
belongs to them without distinction of sex.

Now the country was inhabited in those days by various classes of citizens;--there were artisans,
and there were husbandmen, and there was also a warrior class originally set apart by divine
men. The latter dwelt by themselves, and had all things suitable for nurture and education;
neither had any of them anything of their own, but they regarded all that they had as common
property; nor did they claim to receive of the other citizens anything more than their necessary
food. And they practised all the pursuits which we yesterday described as those of our imaginary
guardians. Concerning the country the Egyptian priests said what is not only probable but manifestly
true, that the boundaries were in those days fixed by the Isthmus, and that in the direction
of the continent they extended as far as the heights of Cithaeron and Parnes; the boundary
line came down in the direction of the sea, having the district of Oropus on the right, and
with the river Asopus as the limit on the left. The land was the best in the world, and was
therefore able in those days to support a vast army, raised from the surrounding people. Even
the remnant of Attica which now exists may compare with any region in the world for the variety
and excellence of its fruits and the suitableness of its pastures to every sort of animal,
which proves what I am saying; but in those days the country was fair as now and yielded far
more abundant produce. How shall I establish my words? and what part of it can be truly called
a remnant of the land that then was? The whole country is only a long promontory extending
far into the sea away from the rest of the continent, while the surrounding basin of the sea
is everywhere deep in the neighbourhood of the shore. The consequence is, that in comparison
of what then was, there are remaining only the bones of the wasted body, as they may be called,
as in the case of small islands, all the richer and softer parts of the soil having fallen
away, and the mere skeleton of the land being left. But in the primitive state of the country,
its mountains were high hills covered with soil, and the plains, as they are termed by us,
of Phelleus were full of rich earth, and there was abundance of wood in the mountains. Of this
last the traces still remain, for although some of the mountains now only afford sustenance
to bees, not so very long ago there were still to be seen roofs of timber cut from trees growing
there, which were of a size sufficient to cover the largest houses; and there were many other
high trees, cultivated by man and bearing abundance of food for cattle. Moreover, the land
reaped the benefit of the annual rainfall, not as now losing the water which flows off the
bare earth into the sea, but, having an abundant supply in all places, and receiving it into
herself and treasuring it up in the close clay soil, it let off into the hollows the streams
which it absorbed from the heights, providing everywhere abundant fountains and rivers, of
which there may still be observed sacred memorials in places where fountains once existed;
and this proves the truth of what I am saying.

Such was the natural state of the country, which was cultivated, as we may well believe, by
true husbandmen, who made husbandry their business, and were lovers of honour, and of a noble
nature, and had a soil the best in the world, and abundance of water, and in the heaven above
an excellently attempered climate. Now the city in those days was arranged on this wise. In
the first place the Acropolis was not as now. For the fact is that a single night of excessive
rain washed away the earth and laid bare the rock; at the same time there were earthquakes,
and then occurred the extraordinary inundation, which was the third before the great destruction
of Deucalion. But in primitive times the hill of the Acropolis extended to the Eridanus and
Ilissus, and included the Pnyx on one side, and the Lycabettus as a boundary on the opposite
side to the Pnyx, and was all well covered with soil, and level at the top, except in one or
two places. Outside the Acropolis and under the sides of the hill there dwelt artisans, and
such of the husbandmen as were tilling the ground near; the warrior class dwelt by themselves
around the temples of Athene and Hephaestus at the summit, which moreover they had enclosed
with a single fence like the garden of a single house. On the north side they had dwellings
in common and had erected halls for dining in winter, and had all the buildings which they
needed for their common life, besides temples, but there was no adorning of them with gold
and silver, for they made no use of these for any purpose; they took a middle course between
meanness and ostentation, and built modest houses in which they and their children's children
grew old, and they handed them down to others who were like themselves, always the same. But
in summer-time they left their gardens and gymnasia and dining halls, and then the southern
side of the hill was made use of by them for the same purpose. Where the Acropolis now is there
was a fountain, which was choked by the earthquake, and has left only the few small streams
which still exist in the vicinity, but in those days the fountain gave an abundant supply of
water for all and of suitable temperature in summer and in winter. This is how they dwelt,
being the guardians of their own citizens and the leaders of the Hellenes, who were their willing
followers. And they took care to preserve the same number of men and women through all time,
being so many as were required for warlike purposes, then as now--that is to say, about twenty
thousand. Such were the ancient Athenians, and after this manner they righteously administered
their own land and the rest of Hellas; they were renowned all over Europe and Asia for the
beauty of their persons and for the many virtues of their souls, and of all men who lived in
those days they were the most illustrious. My great-grandfather, Dropides, had the original
writing, which is still in my possession, and was carefully studied by me when I was a child.
Therefore if you hear names such as are used in this country, you must not be surprised, for
I have told how they came to be introduced. There were also in the interior of the temple other
images which had been dedicated by private persons.

I have described the city and the environs of the ancient palace nearly in the words of Solon,
and now I must endeavour to represent to you the nature and arrangement of the rest of the
land. Nevertheless I must say what I was told. Such was the military order of the royal city--the
order of the other nine governments varied, and it would be wearisome to recount their several
differences. Now the order of precedence among them and their mutual relations were regulated
by the commands of Poseidon which the law had handed down. These were inscribed by the first
kings on a pillar of orichalcum, which was situated in the middle of the island, at the temple
of Poseidon, whither the kings were gathered together every fifth and every sixth year alternately,
thus giving equal honour to the odd and to the even number. Now on the pillar, besides the
laws, there was inscribed an oath invoking mighty curses on the disobedient. When therefore,
after slaying the bull in the accustomed manner, they had burnt its limbs, they filled a bowl
of wine and cast in a clot of blood for each of them; the rest of the victim they put in the
fire, after having purified the column all round. And when he had called them together, he
spake as follows--[*]

     * The rest of the Dialogue of Critias has been lost.

