It was wonderfully pleasant to be able to give such pleasure. Darrow was not rich, but it was
almost impossible for him to picture the state of persons with tastes and perceptions like
his own, to whom an evening at the theatre was an unattainable indulgence. There floated through
his mind an answer of Mrs. Leath's to his enquiry whether she had seen the play in question.
"No. I meant to, of course, but one is so overwhelmed with things in Paris. And then I'm rather
sick of Cerdine--one is always being dragged to see her."

That, among the people he frequented, was the usual attitude toward such opportunities. There
were too many, they were a nuisance, one had to defend one's self! He even remembered wondering,
at the moment, whether to a really fine taste the exceptional thing could ever become indifferent
through habit; whether the appetite for beauty was so soon dulled that it could be kept alive
only by privation. Here, at any rate, was a fine chance to experiment with such a hunger: he
almost wished he might stay on in Paris long enough to take the measure of Miss Viner's receptivity.

She was still dwelling on his promise, "It's too beautiful of you! Oh, don't you THINK you'll
be able to get seats?" And then, after a pause of brimming appreciation: "I wonder if you'll
think me horrid?--but it may be my only chance; and if you can't get places for us all, wouldn't
you perhaps just take ME? After all, the Farlows may have seen it!"

He had not, of course, thought her horrid, but only the more engaging, for being so natural,
and so unashamed of showing the frank greed of her famished youth. "Oh, you shall go somehow!"
he had gaily promised her; and she had dropped back with a sigh of pleasure as their cab passed
into the dimly-lit streets of the Farlows' quarter beyond the Seine...

This little passage came back to him the next morning, as he opened his hotel window on the
early roar of the Northern Terminus.

The girl was there, in the room next to him. That had been the first point in his waking consciousness.
The second was a sense of relief at the obligation imposed on him by this unexpected turn of
everts. To wake to the necessity of action, to postpone perforce the fruitless contemplation
of his private grievance, was cause enough for gratitude, even if the small adventure in which
he found himself involved had not, on its own merits, roused an instinctive curiosity to see
it through.

When he and his companion, the night before, had reached the Farlows' door in the rue de la
Chaise, it was only to find, after repeated assaults on its panels, that the Farlows were no
longer there. They had moved away the week before, not only from their apartment but from Paris;
and Miss Viner's breach with Mrs. Murrett had been too sudden to permit her letter and telegram
to overtake them. Both communications, no doubt, still reposed in a pigeon-hole of the loge;
but its custodian, when drawn from his lair, sulkily declined to let Miss Viner verify the
fact, and only flung out, in return for Darrow's bribe, the statement that the Americans had
gone to Joigny.

To pursue them there at that hour was manifestly impossible, and Miss Viner, disturbed but
not disconcerted by this new obstacle, had quite simply acceded to Darrow's suggestion that
she should return for what remained of the night to the hotel where he had sent his luggage.

The drive back through the dark hush before dawn, with the nocturnal blaze of the Boulevard
fading around them like the false lights of a magician's palace, had so played on her impressionability
that she seemed to give no farther thought to her own predicament. Darrow noticed that she
did not feel the beauty and mystery of the spectacle as much as its pressure of human significance,
all its hidden implications of emotion and adventure. As they passed the shadowy colonnade
of the Francais, remote and temple-like in the paling lights, he felt a clutch on his arm,
and heard the cry: "There are things THERE that I want so desperately to see!" and all the
way back to the hotel she continued to question him, with shrewd precision and an artless thirst
for detail, about the theatrical life of Paris. He was struck afresh, as he listened, by the
way in which her naturalness eased the situation of constraint, leaving to it only a pleasant
savour of good fellowship. It was the kind of episode that one might, in advance, have characterized
as "awkward", yet that was proving, in the event, as much outside such definitions as a sunrise
stroll with a dryad in a dew-drenched forest; and Darrow reflected that mankind would never
have needed to invent tact if it had not first invented social complications.

It had been understood, with his good-night to Miss Viner, that the next morning he was to
look up the Joigny trains, and see her safely to the station; but, while he breakfasted and
waited for a time-table, he recalled again her cry of joy at the prospect of seeing Cerdine.
It was certainly a pity, since that most elusive and incalculable of artists was leaving the
next week for South America, to miss what might be a last sight of her in her greatest part;
and Darrow, having dressed and made the requisite excerpts from the time-table, decided to
carry the result of his deliberations to his neighbour's door.

It instantly opened at his knock, and she came forth looking as if she had been plunged into
some sparkling element which had curled up all her drooping tendrils and wrapped her in a shimmer
of fresh leaves.

"Well, what do you think of me?" she cried; and with a hand at her waist she spun about as
if to show off some miracle of Parisian dress-making.

"I think the missing trunk has come--and that it was worth waiting for!"

"You DO like my dress?"

"I adore it! I always adore new dresses--why, you don't mean to say it's NOT a new one?"

She laughed out her triumph.

"No, no, no! My trunk hasn't come, and this is only my old rag of yesterday--but I never knew
the trick to fail!" And, as he stared: "You see," she joyously explained, "I've always had
to dress in all kinds of dreary left-overs, and sometimes, when everybody else was smart and
new, it used to make me awfully miserable. So one day, when Mrs. Murrett dragged me down unexpectedly
to fill a place at dinner, I suddenly thought I'd try spinning around like that, and say to
every one: 'WELL, WHAT DO YOU THINK OF ME?' And, do you know, they were all taken in, including
Mrs. Murrett, who didn't recognize my old turned and dyed rags, and told me afterward it was
awfully bad form to dress as if I were somebody that people would expect to know! And ever
since, whenever I've particularly wanted to look nice, I've just asked people what they thought
of my new frock; and they're always, always taken in!"

She dramatized her explanation so vividly that Darrow felt as if his point were gained.

"Ah, but this confirms your vocation--of course," he cried, "you must see Cerdine!" and, seeing
her face fall at this reminder of the change in her prospects, he hastened to set forth his
plan. As he did so, he saw how easy it was to explain things to her. She would either accept
his suggestion, or she would not: but at least she would waste no time in protestations and
objections, or any vain sacrifice to the idols of conformity. The conviction that one could,
on any given point, almost predicate this of her, gave him the sense of having advanced far
enough in her intimacy to urge his arguments against a hasty pursuit of her friends.

Yes, it would certainly be foolish--she at once agreed--in the case of such dear indefinite
angels as the Farlows, to dash off after them without more positive proof that they were established
at Joigny, and so established that they could take her in. She owned it was but too probable
that they had gone there to "cut down", and might be doing so in quarters too contracted to
receive her; and it would be unfair, on that chance, to impose herself on them unannounced.
The simplest way of getting farther light on the question would be to go back to the rue de
la Chaise, where, at that more conversable hour, the concierge might be less chary of detail;
and she could decide on her next step in the light of such facts as he imparted.

Point by point, she fell in with the suggestion, recognizing, in the light of their unexplained
flight, that the Farlows might indeed be in a situation on which one could not too rashly intrude.
Her concern for her friends seemed to have effaced all thought of herself, and this little
indication of character gave Darrow a quite disproportionate pleasure. She agreed that it would
be well to go at once to the rue de la Chaise, but met his proposal that they should drive
by the declaration that it was a "waste" not to walk in Paris; so they set off on foot through
the cheerful tumult of the streets.

The walk was long enough for him to learn many things about her. The storm of the previous
night had cleared the air, and Paris shone in morning beauty under a sky that was all broad
wet washes of white and blue; but Darrow again noticed that her visual sensitiveness was less
keen than her feeling for what he was sure the good Farlows--whom he already seemed to know--would
have called "the human interest." She seemed hardly conscious of sensations of form and colour,
or of any imaginative suggestion, and the spectacle before them--always, in its scenic splendour,
so moving to her companion--broke up, under her scrutiny, into a thousand minor points: the
things in the shops, the types of character and manner of occupation shown in the passing faces,
the street signs, the names of the hotels they passed, the motley brightness of the flower-carts,
the identity of the churches and public buildings that caught her eye. But what she liked best,
he divined, was the mere fact of being free to walk abroad in the bright air, her tongue rattling
on as it pleased, while her feet kept time to the mighty orchestration of the city's sounds.
Her delight in the fresh air, in the freedom, light and sparkle of the morning, gave him a
sudden insight into her stifled past; nor was it indifferent to him to perceive how much his
presence evidently added to her enjoyment. If only as a sympathetic ear, he guessed what he
must be worth to her. The girl had been dying for some one to talk to, some one before whom
she could unfold and shake out to the light her poor little shut-away emotions. Years of repression
were revealed in her sudden burst of confidence; and the pity she inspired made Darrow long
to fill her few free hours to the brim.

She had the gift of rapid definition, and his questions as to the life she had led with the
Farlows, during the interregnum between the Hoke and Murrett eras, called up before him a queer
little corner of Parisian existence. The Farlows themselves--he a painter, she a "magazine
writer"--rose before him in all their incorruptible simplicity: an elderly New England couple,
with vague yearnings for enfranchisement, who lived in Paris as if it were a Massachusetts
suburb, and dwelt hopefully on the "higher side" of the Gallic nature. With equal vividness
she set before him the component figures of the circle from which Mrs. Farlow drew the "Inner
Glimpses of French Life" appearing over her name in a leading New England journal: the Roumanian
lady who had sent them tickets for her tragedy, an elderly French gentleman who, on the strength
of a week's stay at Folkestone, translated English fiction for the provincial press, a lady
from Wichita, Kansas, who advocated free love and the abolition of the corset, a clergyman's
widow from Torquay who had written an "English Ladies' Guide to Foreign Galleries" and a Russian
sculptor who lived on nuts and was "almost certainly" an anarchist. It was this nucleus, and
its outer ring of musical, architectural and other American students, which posed successively
to Mrs. Farlow's versatile fancy as a centre of "University Life", a "Salon of the Faubourg
St. Germain", a group of Parisian "Intellectuals" or a "Cross-section of Montmartre"; but even
her faculty for extracting from it the most varied literary effects had not sufficed to create
a permanent demand for the "Inner Glimpses", and there were days when--Mr. Farlow's landscapes
being equally unmarketable--a temporary withdrawal to the country (subsequently utilized as
"Peeps into Chateau Life") became necessary to the courageous couple.

Five years of Mrs. Murrett's world, while increasing Sophy's tenderness for the Farlows, had
left her with few illusions as to their power of advancing her fortunes; and she did not conceal
from Darrow that her theatrical projects were of the vaguest. They hung mainly on the problematical
good-will of an ancient comedienne, with whom Mrs. Farlow had a slight acquaintance (extensively
utilized in "Stars of the French Footlights" and "Behind the Scenes at the Francais"), and
who had once, with signs of approval, heard Miss Viner recite the Nuit de Mai.

"But of course I know how much that's worth," the girl broke off, with one of her flashes of
shrewdness. "And besides, it isn't likely that a poor old fossil like Mme. Dolle could get
anybody to listen to her now, even if she really thought I had talent. But she might introduce
me to people; or at least give me a few tips. If I could manage to earn enough to pay for lessons
I'd go straight to some of the big people and work with them. I'm rather hoping the Farlows
may find me a chance of that kind--an engagement with some American family in Paris who would
want to be 'gone round' with like the Hokes, and who'd leave me time enough to study."

In the rue de la Chaise they learned little except the exact address of the Farlows, and the
fact that they had sub-let their flat before leaving. This information obtained, Darrow proposed
to Miss Viner that they should stroll along the quays to a little restaurant looking out on
the Seine, and there, over the plat du jour, consider the next step to be taken. The long walk
had given her cheeks a glow indicative of wholesome hunger, and she made no difficulty about
satisfying it in Darrow's company. Regaining the river they walked on in the direction of Notre
Dame, delayed now and again by the young man's irresistible tendency to linger over the bookstalls,
and by his ever-fresh response to the shifting beauties of the scene. For two years his eyes
had been subdued to the atmospheric effects of London, to the mysterious fusion of darkly-piled
city and low-lying bituminous sky; and the transparency of the French air, which left the green
gardens and silvery stones so classically clear yet so softly harmonized, struck him as having
a kind of conscious intelligence. Every line of the architecture, every arch of the bridges,
the very sweep of the strong bright river between them, while contributing to this effect,
sent forth each a separate appeal to some sensitive memory; so that, for Darrow, a walk through
the Paris streets was always like the unrolling of a vast tapestry from which countless stored
fragrances were shaken out.

It was a proof of the richness and multiplicity of the spectacle that it served, without incongruity,
for so different a purpose as the background of Miss Viner's enjoyment. As a mere drop-scene
for her personal adventure it was just as much in its place as in the evocation of great perspectives
of feeling. For her, as he again perceived when they were seated at their table in a low window
above the Seine, Paris was "Paris" by virtue of all its entertaining details, its endless ingenuities
of pleasantness. Where else, for instance, could one find the dear little dishes of hors d'oeuvre,
the symmetrically-laid anchovies and radishes, the thin golden shells of butter, or the wood
strawberries and brown jars of cream that gave to their repast the last refinement of rusticity?
Hadn't he noticed, she asked, that cooking always expressed the national character, and that
French food was clever and amusing just because the people were? And in private houses, everywhere,
how the dishes always resembled the talk--how the very same platitudes seemed to go into people's
mouths and come out of them? Couldn't he see just what kind of menu it would make, if a fairy
waved a wand and suddenly turned the conversation at a London dinner into joints and puddings?
She always thought it a good sign when people liked Irish stew; it meant that they enjoyed
changes and surprises, and taking life as it came; and such a beautiful Parisian version of
the dish as the navarin that was just being set before them was like the very best kind of
talk--the kind when one could never tell before-hand just what was going to be said!

Darrow, as he watched her enjoyment of their innocent feast, wondered if her vividness and
vivacity were signs of her calling. She was the kind of girl in whom certain people would instantly
have recognized the histrionic gift. But experience had led him to think that, except at the
creative moment, the divine flame burns low in its possessors. The one or two really intelligent
actresses he had known had struck him, in conversation, as either bovine or primitively "jolly".
He had a notion that, save in the mind of genius, the creative process absorbs too much of
the whole stuff of being to leave much surplus for personal expression; and the girl before
him, with her changing face and flexible fancies, seemed destined to work in life itself rather
than in any of its counterfeits.

The coffee and liqueurs were already on the table when her mind suddenly sprang back to the
Farlows. She jumped up with one of her subversive movements and declared that she must telegraph
at once. Darrow called for writing materials and room was made at her elbow for the parched
ink-bottle and saturated blotter of the Parisian restaurant; but the mere sight of these jaded
implements seemed to paralyze Miss Viner's faculties. She hung over the telegraph-form with
anxiously-drawn brow, the tip of the pen-handle pressed against her lip; and at length she
raised her troubled eyes to Darrow's.

"I simply can't think how to say it."

"What--that you're staying over to see Cerdine?"

"But AM I--am I, really?" The joy of it flamed over her face.

Darrow looked at his watch. "You could hardly get an answer to your telegram in time to take
a train to Joigny this afternoon, even if you found your friends could have you."

She mused for a moment, tapping her lip with the pen. "But I must let them know I'm here. I
must find out as soon as possible if they CAN, have me." She laid the pen down despairingly.
"I never COULD write a telegram!" she sighed.

"Try a letter, then and tell them you'll arrive tomorrow."

This suggestion produced immediate relief, and she gave an energetic dab at the ink-bottle;
but after another interval of uncertain scratching she paused again. "Oh, it's fearful! I don't
know what on earth to say. I wouldn't for the world have them know how beastly Mrs. Murrett's
been."

Darrow did not think it necessary to answer. It was no business of his, after all. He lit a
cigar and leaned back in his seat, letting his eyes take their fill of indolent pleasure. In
the throes of invention she had pushed back her hat, loosening the stray lock which had invited
his touch the night before. After looking at it for a while he stood up and wandered to the window.

Behind him he heard her pen scrape on.

"I don't want to worry them--I'm so certain they've got bothers of their own." The faltering
scratches ceased again. "I wish I weren't such an idiot about writing: all the words get frightened
and scurry away when I try to catch them." He glanced back at her with a smile as she bent
above her task like a school-girl struggling with a "composition." Her flushed cheek and frowning
brow showed that her difficulty was genuine and not an artless device to draw him to her side.
She was really powerless to put her thoughts in writing, and the inability seemed characteristic
of her quick impressionable mind, and of the incessant come-and-go of her sensations. He thought
of Anna Leath's letters, or rather of the few he had received, years ago, from the girl who
had been Anna Summers. He saw the slender firm strokes of the pen, recalled the clear structure
of the phrases, and, by an abrupt association of ideas, remembered that, at that very hour,
just such a document might be awaiting him at the hotel.

What if it were there, indeed, and had brought him a complete explanation of her telegram?
The revulsion of feeling produced by this thought made him look at the girl with sudden impatience.
She struck him as positively stupid, and he wondered how he could have wasted half his day
with her, when all the while Mrs. Leath's letter might be lying on his table. At that moment,
if he could have chosen, he would have left his companion on the spot; but he had her on his
hands, and must accept the consequences.

Some odd intuition seemed to make her conscious of his change of mood, for she sprang from
her seat, crumpling the letter in her hand.

"I'm too stupid; but I won't keep you any longer. I'll go back to the hotel and write there."

Her colour deepened, and for the first time, as their eyes met, he noticed a faint embarrassment
in hers. Could it be that his nearness was, after all, the cause of her confusion? The thought
turned his vague impatience with her into a definite resentment toward himself. There was really
no excuse for his having blundered into such an adventure. Why had he not shipped the girl
off to Joigny by the evening train, instead of urging her to delay, and using Cerdine as a
pretext? Paris was full of people he knew, and his annoyance was increased by the thought that
some friend of Mrs. Leath's might see him at the play, and report his presence there with a
suspiciously good-looking companion. The idea was distinctly disagreeable: he did not want
the woman he adored to think he could forget her for a moment. And by this time he had fully
persuaded himself that a letter from her was awaiting him, and had even gone so far as to imagine
that its contents might annul the writer's telegraphed injunction, and call him to her side
at once...

V

At the porter's desk a brief "Pas de lettres" fell destructively on the fabric of these hopes.
Mrs. Leath had not written--she had not taken the trouble to explain her telegram. Darrow turned
away with a sharp pang of humiliation. Her frugal silence mocked his prodigality of hopes and
fears. He had put his question to the porter once before, on returning to the hotel after luncheon;
and now, coming back again in the late afternoon, he was met by the same denial. The second
post was in, and had brought him nothing.

A glance at his watch showed that he had barely time to dress before taking Miss Viner out
to dine; but as he turned to the lift a new thought struck him, and hurrying back into the
hall he dashed off another telegram to his servant: "Have you forwarded any letter with French
postmark today? Telegraph answer Terminus."

Some kind of reply would be certain to reach him on his return from the theatre, and he would
then know definitely whether Mrs. Leath meant to write or not. He hastened up to his room and
dressed with a lighter heart.

Miss Viner's vagrant trunk had finally found its way to its owner; and, clad in such modest
splendour as it furnished, she shone at Darrow across their restaurant table. In the reaction
of his wounded vanity he found her prettier and more interesting than before. Her dress, sloping
away from the throat, showed the graceful set of her head on its slender neck, and the wide
brim of her hat arched above her hair like a dusky halo. Pleasure danced in her eyes and on
her lips, and as she shone on him between the candle-shades Darrow felt that he should not
be at all sorry to be seen with her in public. He even sent a careless glance about him in
the vague hope that it might fall on an acquaintance.

At the theatre her vivacity sank into a breathless hush, and she sat intent in her corner of
their baignoire, with the gaze of a neophyte about to be initiated into the sacred mysteries.
Darrow placed himself behind her, that he might catch her profile between himself and the stage.
He was touched by the youthful seriousness of her expression. In spite of the experiences she
must have had, and of the twenty-four years to which she owned, she struck him as intrinsically
young; and he wondered how so evanescent a quality could have been preserved in the desiccating
Murrett air. As the play progressed he noticed that her immobility was traversed by swift flashes
of perception. She was not missing anything, and her intensity of attention when Cerdine was
on the stage drew an anxious line between her brows.

After the first act she remained for a few minutes rapt and motionless; then she turned to
her companion with a quick patter of questions. He gathered from them that she had been less
interested in following the general drift of the play than in observing the details of its
interpretation. Every gesture and inflection of the great actress's had been marked and analyzed;
and Darrow felt a secret gratification in being appealed to as an authority on the histrionic
art. His interest in it had hitherto been merely that of the cultivated young man curious of
all forms of artistic expression; but in reply to her questions he found things to say about
it which evidently struck his listener as impressive and original, and with which he himself
was not, on the whole, dissatisfied. Miss Viner was much more concerned to hear his views than
to express her own, and the deference with which she received his comments called from him
more ideas about the theatre than he had ever supposed himself to possess.

With the second act she began to give more attention to the development of the play, though
her interest was excited rather by what she called "the story" than by the conflict of character
producing it. Oddly combined with her sharp apprehension of things theatrical, her knowledge
of technical "dodges" and green-room precedents, her glibness about "lines" and "curtains",
was the primitive simplicity of her attitude toward the tale itself, as toward something that
was "really happening" and at which one assisted as at a street-accident or a quarrel overheard
in the next room. She wanted to know if Darrow thought the lovers "really would" be involved
in the catastrophe that threatened them, and when he reminded her that his predictions were
disqualified by his having already seen the play, she exclaimed: "Oh, then, please don't tell
me what's going to happen!" and the next moment was questioning him about Cerdine's theatrical
situation and her private history. On the latter point some of her enquiries were of a kind
that it is not in the habit of young girls to make, or even to know how to make; but her apparent
unconsciousness of the fact seemed rather to reflect on her past associates than on herself.

When the second act was over, Darrow suggested their taking a turn in the foyer; and seated
on one of its cramped red velvet sofas they watched the crowd surge up and down in a glare
of lights and gilding. Then, as she complained of the heat, he led her through the press to
the congested cafe at the foot of the stairs, where orangeades were thrust at them between
the shoulders of packed consommateurs and Darrow, lighting a cigarette while she sucked her
straw, knew the primitive complacency of the man at whose companion other men stare.

On a corner of their table lay a smeared copy of a theatrical journal. It caught Sophy's eye
and after poring over the page she looked up with an excited exclamation.

"They're giving Oedipe tomorrow afternoon at the Francais! I suppose you've seen it heaps and
heaps of times?"

He smiled back at her. "You must see it too. We'll go tomorrow."

She sighed at his suggestion, but without discarding it. "How can I? The last train for Joigny
leaves at four."

"But you don't know yet that your friends will want you."

"I shall know tomorrow early. I asked Mrs. Farlow to telegraph as soon as she got my letter."
A twinge of compunction shot through Darrow. Her words recalled to him that on their return
to the hotel after luncheon she had given him her letter to post, and that he had never thought
of it again. No doubt it was still in the pocket of the coat he had taken off when he dressed
for dinner. In his perturbation he pushed back his chair, and the movement made her look up at him.

"What's the matter?"

"Nothing. Only--you know I don't fancy that letter can have caught this afternoon's post."

"Not caught it? Why not?"

"Why, I'm afraid it will have been too late." He bent his head to light another cigarette.

She struck her hands together with a gesture which, to his amusement, he noticed she had caught
from Cerdine.

"Oh, dear, I hadn't thought of that! But surely it will reach them in the morning?"

"Some time in the morning, I suppose. You know the French provincial post is never in a hurry.
I don't believe your letter would have been delivered this evening in any case." As this idea
occurred to him he felt himself almost absolved.

"Perhaps, then, I ought to have telegraphed?"

"I'll telegraph for you in the morning if you say so."

The bell announcing the close of the entr'-acte shrilled through the cafe, and she sprang to
her feet.

"Oh, come, come! We mustn't miss it!"

Instantly forgetful of the Farlows, she slipped her arm through his and turned to push her
way back to the theatre.

As soon as the curtain went up she as promptly forgot her companion. Watching her from the
corner to which he had returned, Darrow saw that great waves of sensation were beating deliciously
against her brain. It was as though every starved sensibility were throwing out feelers to
the mounting tide; as though everything she was seeing, hearing, imagining, rushed in to fill
the void of all she had always been denied.

Darrow, as he observed her, again felt a detached enjoyment in her pleasure. She was an extraordinary
conductor of sensation: she seemed to transmit it physically, in emanations that set the blood
dancing in his veins. He had not often had the opportunity of studying the effects of a perfectly
fresh impression on so responsive a temperament, and he felt a fleeting desire to make its
chords vibrate for his own amusement.

