At length, after somewhat more than an hour's walk, the most harassing that can be imagined,
we arrived at the top just as the day began to dawn. To paint the feelings at this dizzy height,
requires the pen of poetic inspiration; or to describe the scene presented to mortal gaze,
when thus looking down with fearful eye on the almost boundless prospect beneath! The blue
expanded ocean, fields, woods, cities, rivers, mountains, and all the wonted charms of the
terrestrial world, had a magic effect, when viewed by the help of the nascent light; while
hard by yawned that dreadful crater of centuries untold, evolving thick sulphureous clouds
of white smoke, which rolling down the mountain's side in terrific grandeur, at length formed
one vast column for many miles in extent across the sky. Anon the mountain growled awfully
in its inmost recesses, and the earth was slightly convulsed! We now attempted to descend a
short distance within the crater; the guides, timid of its horrors, did not relish the undertaking,
but were induced at length, and conducted the party behind some heaps of lava, from whence
was a grand view of this awful cavern. The noise within the gulf resembled loud continuous
thunderings, and after each successive explosion, there issued columns of white, and sometimes
of black smoke.

The crater presents the appearance of an inverted cone, the interior part of which is covered
with crystallizations of salts and sulphur, of various brilliant hues--red appeared to predominate,
or rather a deep orange colour. Writers vary much in their accounts as to the circumference
of the crater. Captain Smyth, R.N., who had an opportunity to ascertain it correctly, describes
it as an oval, stretching from E. and by N. to W., and by S. with a conjugate diameter of four
hundred and ninety-three yards; the transverse he was prevented from ascertaining by a dense
cloud that arose before his operations were completed. It was soon requisite for us to retire
from this spot, as the smoke began to increase, and our guides said that some adventurous travellers
had lost their lives by approaching too near, and were either blown into the abyss below by
the violence of the wind, which is generally very strong at this elevation, or suffocated by
a sudden burst of the sulphureous vapour.

The Regione Deserta, or desolate region of Etna, first attracts the eye, marked in winter by
a circle of ice and snow, but now (July) by cinders and black sand. In the midst the great
crater rears its burning head, and the regions of intense heat and extreme cold shake hands
together. The eye soon becomes satiated with its wildness, and turns with delight on the Sylvana
region, which, with its magnificent zone of forest trees, embraces the mountain completely
round: in many parts of this delightful tract are seen hills, now covered with the most luxuriant
vegetation, that have been formed by different eruptions of Etna. This girdle is succeeded
by another still richer, called the Regione Culta, abundant in every fruit or grain that man
can desire: the small rivers Semetus and Alcantara intersect these fertile fields; beyond this
the whole of Sicily, with its cities, towns, and villages, its corn-fields and vineyards in
almost endless perspective, charm and delight the senses.

The summit of the mountain is composed of scoria, and crystallizations of sulphur, with here
and there heaps of lava; wherever a stick is thrust in, the opening immediately emits a volume
of white smoke, and if the hand be applied to the aperture, it is soon withdrawn on account
of the great heat. The mean temperature of the summit, during the months of July and August,
is 37° Fahr. After having remained about an hour, descended to the Casa Inglese. After an hour's
repose, proceeded downwards, visited the Philosopher's Tower, as it is called, which tradition
says was constructed by Empedocles while he was studying the various phenomena of Etna.

About a mile or two from this spot, there is a grand view of the Val di Bove. The foreground
consists of lava, forming the face of an enormous precipice, at the bottom of which is seen
a lovely valley, gradually sloping down towards the coast, embracing the three several regions
of the mountain, to which the purple wave of the Mediterranean forms a noble boundary: nothing
can be more varied, rich, and beautiful than this scene, as it comprises every object necessary
to form a perfect landscape.

It was interesting to notice the gradual increase of vegetation during the descent. The Senecio
Christhenifolius grows at the elevation of 8,830 feet, the Juniperus Communis commences at
6,800. Then follow the Pinus Sylv., Betula Alba, Quercus Robur, and the Fagus Sylvaticus. The
olive is seen at the altitude of 3,000 feet, and the vines flourish as high as 5,000 feet.--United
Service Journal.

    [In a clever paper on the geographical position and history of
    Active Volcanoes, contributed by W.M. Higgins, Esq. F.G.S. and
    J.W. Draper, Esq. to the Magazine of Natural History, is the
    following outline of Etna.]

Etna is entirely composed of volcanic rocks, and rises in imposing grandeur to the height of
10,000 ft. above the level of the sea. It is about 180 miles in circumferences, and is surrounded
on every hand by apparently small volcanic cones, though of no inconsiderable size, which tend
in a great degree to increase the apparent dimensions of the central mountain. Some of these
cones are covered with vegetation, but others are arid and bare. From this variety in the progress
of vegetation, some persons have endeavoured to calculate the relative ages of the cones; but
these opinions are exceedingly vague, as it requires a longer period to form a soil on some
lavas than on others. The earliest historical notice we have of this mountain is by Thucydides,
who states that there were three eruptions previous to the Peloponnesian war (431 B.C.), to
one of which Pindar alludes in his first Pythian Ode. In the year 396 B.C. the volcano was
again active; and according to Diodorus Siculus, the Carthaginian army was stopped in its march
against Syracuse by the flowing lava. But let it suffice to say, that ten eruptions previous
to, and forty-eight subsequent to, the Christian era, have been recorded; some when the mountain
was in the phase of moderate activity, and others when in the phase of prolonged intermittence.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SECRET LOVER.

FROM THE PERSIAN OF JAUMI.

  Lives there the soulless youth, whose eye
  That ruby tinted lip could see,
  Nor long for thee to live or die?
                               How unlike me!

  Or see that cheek's pomegranate glow;
  Yet think of anything but thee,
  Cold as that bosom heaving snow?
                               How unlike me!

  Or see thee o'er the golden wire
  Bend with such lovely witchery,
  Nor feel each tone like living fire?
                               How unlike me!

  Or see thee in the evening dance
  Float, like the foam upon the sea,
  Nor drink sweet poison from thy glance?
                               How unlike me!

  Or hear thy hymn, at moonlight rise,
  Soft as the humming of the bee,
  Nor think he sits in Paradise?
                               How unlike me!

  Or see thee in thy simplest hour,
  Sweet as the rose upon the tree,
  Nor long to plant thee in his bower?
                               How unlike me!

  But lives there one who vainly tries
  To look the freest of the free,
  And hide the wound by which he dies?
                               Ah! how like me!

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

ROBIN HOOD.

    (Concluded from page 182.)

With respect to the personal character of Robin Hood, it is generally agreed that he was active,
brave, prudent, patient, possessed of uncommon bodily strength, and considerable military skill;
just, generous, and beloved by his followers. As proofs of his singular popularity, his story
and exploits have been made the subject of various dramatic exhibitions, as well of innumerable
poems, lyrics, songs, and ballads; he has given rise to divers proverbs, and to swear by him
was a common practice. Some writers say his songs have been preferred on solemn occasions,
not only to the Psalms of David, but to the New Testament, and his service to the word of God.
We have the opinion of Bishop Latimer on this head:--"I came," says the bishop (in his sixth
sermon before King Edward VI.) "to a place, riding on a journey homeward from London, and I
sent word over night into the town, that I would preach there in the morning, because it was
a holyday, and methought it was a holydayes worke; the churche stode in my way, and I toke
my horse and my companye and went thither. I thought I should have found a great companye in
the churche, and when I came there, the churche dore was faste locked; I tarried halfe an houre
and more, and at last the keye was founde, and one of the parishe commes to me, and sayes,
'Syr, thys ys a busye day with us, we cannot heare you; it is Robyn Hoode's day; the parishe
is gone abroad to gather for Robyn Hoode.' I pray you let them not, I was fayne there to geve
place to Robyn Hoode. I thought my rochet should have been regarded thoughe I were not; but
it woulde not serve, it was fayne to give place to Robyn Hoode's men. It is no laughyng matter,
my friendes, it is a wepynge matter, a heavy matter under a pretence for gatherynge for Robyn
Hoode, a traytoure and a thefe, to put out a preacher, to have his office lesse esteemed, to
prefer Robyn Hoode before the mynystration of God's word, and all thys hath come of unpreachynge
prelates. Thys realme hath been il provided, for that it hath had suche corrupte judgementes
in it, to prefer Robyn Hode to Godde's worde. Yf the bysshoppes had bene preachers, there sholde
never have bene any such thynge," &c.

Robin Hood was believed to possess supernatural powers. In the parish of Halifax is an immense
stone or rock, supposed to be a Druidical monument, there called Robin Hood's penny-stone,
which he is said to have used to pitch with at a mark, for his amusement. There was likewise
another of these stones of several tons weight, which the country people would say he threw
off an adjoining hill with a spade, as he was digging. At Bitchover, where it was said he lived,
among several groups of rocks, were some stones called Robin Hood's Stride, being two of the
highest and most remarkable. He obtained also the distinction of sainthood, in having a festival
allotted to him, and solemn games instituted in honour of his memory; a short account of which
will be found in The Mirror, No. 544, p. 259. These games were celebrated till the latter end
of the sixteenth century, not by the populace only, but by kings and princes, and grave magistrates,
in Scotland and in England; being considered in the former country of the highest political
importance, and essential to the civil and religious liberties of the people; the efforts of
government to suppress them frequently producing tumult and insurrection.

In Ray's Itineraries, 1760, we are told that Robin Hood's bow, one of his arrows, his chair,
his cap, and one of his slippers, were preserved till within the above century. In Brome's
Travels, is the following notice of his relics: "having pleased ourselves with the antiquities
of Nottingham, we took horse and went to visit the well, and ancient chair, of Robin Hood,
which is not far from hence, within the Forest of Sherwood. Being placed in the chair, we had
a cap which they say was his, very formally put upon our heads, and having performed the usual
ceremonies befitting so great a solemnity, we received the freedom of the chair, and were incorporated
into the society of that renowned brotherhood." In Hutton's Journey from Birmingham to London,
1785, he states, "I was much pleased with a slipper, belonging to the famous Robin Hood, shown
me, fifty years ago, at St. Ann's Well, near Nottingham, a place upon the borders of Sherwood
Forest, to which he resorted." Over a spring called Robin Hood's Well, four miles north of
Doncaster, is a handsome stone arch, erected by Lord Carlisle, where passengers from the coach
used to drink of the fair water, and give alms to two people who attended.

Thus, not only did those places retain his name which afforded him security or amusement, but
even the well at which he quenched his thirst. There is also Robin Hood's Bay, on the coast
of Yorkshire. It is mentioned by Leland as "a fischer tounlet of 20 bootes caulled Robyn Huddes
Bay, a dok or bosom of a mile yn length:" in this bay he often went fishing in the summer season,
and not far from this he had butts or marks set up, where he used to exercise his men in shooting
with the long bow.

After Robin's death, his company dispersed, and are supposed to have been distinguished from
the name of their gallant leader, by the title of Roberdsmen. It may not be uninteresting to
subjoin a short account of the last days of Robin's friend and favourite, Little John. The
honour of his death and burial is contended by rival nations, first by England. At the village
of Hathersage, about six miles from Castleton, in Derbyshire, is Little John's grave. Tradition
states, some curious person caused it to be opened, when there were found several bones of
uncommon size, which he preserved; but meeting afterwards with many unlucky accidents, he carefully
replaced them, partly at the intercession of the sexton who had taken them up for him, and
who had in like manner been visited with misfortunes, but upon restoring the bones all these
troubles ceased. Secondly, by Scotland. In Murray-land, according to the historian, Hector
Boece, is "the Kirke of Pette, quhare the banis of Lytill Johne remainis in grete admiratioun
of pepill. He hes bene fourtene feet of hycht with square membris effering thairto VI zeris,"
continues he, "afore the cumyng of this werk to lycht we saw his hanche-bane, als mekill as
the hail bane of ane man, lor we schot our arme in the mouth thairof. Be quhilk apperis how
strang and square pepill grew in our regioun afore they were effeminat with lust and intemperance
of mouth." Thirdly, by Ireland. "There stood," as Stanihurst relates, "in Ostmantowne greene
an hillocke, named Little John his shot. The occasion," he says, proceeded of this--"In the
yeere one thousand one hundred foure score and nine, there ranged three robbers and outlaws
in England, among which Robert Hood and Little John weere cheefeteins, of all theeves doubtlesse
the most courteous. Robert Hood being betrayed at a nunrie in Scotland, called Bricklies, the
remnant of the crue was scattered, and everie man forced to shift for himselfe; whereupon Little
John was faine to flee the realme by sailing to Ireland, where he sojornied for a few daies
at Dublin. The citizens beeing doone to understand the wandering outcast to be an excellent
archer, requested him hartilie to trie how far he could shoote at random; who yeelding to their
behest, stood on the bridge of Dublin, and shot to that mole hill, leaving behind him a monument,
rather by his posteritie to be woondered, than possiblie by anie man living to be counterscored.
But as the repaire of so notorious a champion to anie countrie would soone be published, so
his abode could not be long concealed, and therefore to eschew the danger of laws, he fled
into Scotland, where he died at a town or village called Moravie." But, Mr. Walker, after observing,
that "poor Little John's great practical skill in archery could not save him from an ignominious
fall," says "it appeared from some records in the Southwell family, that he was publicly executed
for robbery on Arbor-hill, Dublin."

A bow, said to have belonged to Little John, with the name of Nayler upon it, is now in the
possession of a gentleman in the West Riding of Yorkshire.[6] SWAINE.

    [6] Sir George Armitage, of Kirklees Hall.--See Mirror, vol.
    xix. p. 322.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY.

    [This is one of the Naturo-Philosophical volumes of the
    Cabinet Cyclopaedia, and is therefore to be viewed as a
    portion of that series rather than as a substantive work. Its
    preparation has been entrusted to Mr. M. Donovan, Professor of
    Chemistry to the Company of Apothecaries in Ireland; so that
    it comes to us with some share of recommendatory experience
    on the part of the editor. It would, however, be difficult to
    point out the advantages of Mr. Donovan's volume over others
    of the same description. Neither will such distinction be
    looked for but in a scientific journal. The arrangement is
    clear and satisfactory; the manner plain and illustrative; and
    the matter in accordance with the science of the present day;
    though in a few cases the nomenclature is somewhat overloaded
    with hard names, and presumes more previous acquaintance with
    the subject than is consistent. We subjoin a few extracts of
    popular interest.]

Caloric, or the matter of Heat.

Heat is admitted by the philosophers of the present day to be the principle concerned in repulsion;
and heat and cold are known to produce expansion and contraction in all bodies. Heat is, therefore,
the antagonist of cohesion. Chemists have thought it necessary to make a distinction between
the senses in which the word heat may be taken. In its usual acceptation, it merely means the
effect excited on the organs of sensation by a hot body. But as this must be produced by a
power in the hot body independent of sensation, that power is what chemists understand by the
word heat: and to distinguish between the effect and its cause, the term caloric has been substituted.
The introduction of this term appears altogether unnecessary, when the sense in which the word
heat should be understood is explained. Caloric means the cause of the sensation heat: and
there seems no reason to fear that the perception of heat by the organs of sensation can ever
be misunderstood to be the agent in chemical phenomena.

Omniscience displayed in the constitution of the Atmosphere.

In the constitution of the atmosphere we have ample scope to admire the design and execution
of a structure calculated, with such wondrous precision, to fulfil its purposes. Were the atmosphere
to consist wholly of oxygen; and the different kinds of objects which compose, and are found
upon, the globe, to remain what they are; the world would run through its stages of decay,
renovation, and final destruction, in a rapid cycle. Combustion, once excited, would proceed
with ungovernable violence; the globe, during its short existence, would be in a continual
conflagration, until its ashes would be its only remains: animals would live with hundred-fold
intensity, and terminate their mortal career in a few hours. On the other hand, were the atmosphere
wholly composed of azote, life could never have existed, whether animal or vegetable, and the
objects of the Creator in forming this world would not be fulfilled. But the atmosphere is
a wholesome mixture of these two formidable elements, each neutralizing the other's baneful
influence. The life of animals quietly runs through its allotted space; and the current of
nature flows within prescribed limits, manageably and moderately.

Tartaric Acid.

Every one knows, that when a large quantity of the juice of grapes is left to spontaneous fermentation,
the result is wine. When wine has been kept some time to depurate in wooden vessels, it deposits,
on the side of the vessel, a hard crust of dark coloured matter, the taste of which is sour.
This matter is impure; but, when purified by various crystallizations, it becomes perfectly
white and crystalline; and then it is known in commerce by the name of cream of tartar. The
etymology of the singular name, tartar, is uncertain: it is derived from tártaros, as some
say, because it occasions pains equal to those endured in the infernal regions; and, as others
say, merely because this substance deposits itself in the inferior parts of the cask. Tartaric
acid may be obtained from cream of tartar by a process analogous to that given for obtaining
citric acid. It has an exceedingly acid taste: it dissolves readily in water, and is soluble
in alcohol. Its crystals are of a very irregular shape. In 100 parts, by weight, there are
12 of water; the remaining 88 parts are the pure anhydrous acid, composed of 32-39 parts of
carbon, 52-97 of oxygen, and 2-64 of hydrogen. This acid exists abundantly in other fruits,
but especially in the tamarind; in the grape it exists along with citric, malic, and an acid
called vinic, which resembles tartaric acid in many respects, but differs from it in others,
and concerning the nature of which almost nothing is known: these four constitute the agreeable
tartness of the juice of that fruit.

Oxalic Acid.

The plant called sorrel is valued for its acidulous taste. This acidity is owing to the presence
of a peculiar acid, which may be separated from the juice, and from the potash with which it
is combined, by a process analagous to that described for the preparation of citric acid. It
has obtained the name of oxalic acid, from the generic name of the plant, oxalis acetosella.
This acid forms readily into regular crystals, of which one half the weight is water, the other
half being pure acid. It is a remarkable circumstance in its constitution, that it contains
no hydrogen, and that it consists merely of carbon and oxygen--there being twice as much oxygen
as there is carbon. So that it differs from carbonic acid merely in the relative quantities
of its ingredients. Oxalic acid can be prepared by an artificial process, with great ease,
from sugar, and six times its weight of nitric acid,--the former affording the carbon necessary
to its formation, and the latter the oxygen. It is only necessary to heat the nitric acid on
the sugar; the sugar dissolves, and there is a violent effervescence, which must be moderated
by immersion in cold water: when the mixture cools, crystals of oxalic acid form in abundance,
which may be purified by a second crystallization.

Oxalic acid is an active poison; many persons have fallen victims to its virulence, by having
swallowed it in mistake for Epsom salt, which it resembles in appearance. In all probability,
this would not prove to be the only vegetable acid capable of acting as a poison. Chalk finely
powdered, and diffused in water, is the proper antidote to the poison of oxalic acid.

    [The chapter on Combustion contains some new facts; and that
    on the Atomic Theory is more attractive than might have been
    expected.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

       *       *       *       *       *

The Plain Truth.--Sir John Trevor, cousin to Lord Chancellor Jefferies, was an able man, but
as corrupt as he was able. He was twice Speaker of the House of Commons, and officially had
the mortification to put the question to the house, "whether himself ought to be expelled for
bribery." The answer was "Yes."

Freaks of Royalty.--James I. in a capricious mood, threatened the Lord Mayor with removing
the seat of royalty, the meetings of parliament, &c. from the capital. "Your Majesty at least,"
replied the Mayor, "will be graciously pleased to leave us the River Thames."

The Original Strand.--In the reign of Edward III. the Strand was an open highway. A solitary
house occasionally occurred; but in 1353, the ruggedness of the highway was such, that Edward
appointed a tax on wool, leather, &c. for its improvement.

On the laying the first stone of the church of St. Martin's in the Fields, the king (George
I.) gave one hundred guineas to be distributed among the workmen.

A swampy Kingdom.--In the reign of Charles II. at the east end of St. James's Park, there was
a swampy retreat for the ducks, thence denominated Duck Island, which, by Charles was erected
into a government, and a salary annexed to the office, in favour of the celebrated French writer,
M. de St. Evremond, who was the first and last governor.

The gold embroidery of the chair of state in Carlton Palace is stated to have cost 500l.

The horse rode by the Champion in the coronation of George the Third was the same that bore
George the Second at the memorable battle of Dettingen. Winstanley.

A Pastor.--The Rev. Andrew Marvell, A.M. father of the patriot, was born at Mildred, in Cambridgeshire,
in 1586. He was a student of Emanuel College in that University, where he took his degree of
Master of Arts in 1608. Afterwards he was elected master of the grammar school at Hull, and
in 1624, lecturer of Trinity Church in that town. "He was a most excellent preacher," says
Fuller, "who, like a good husband, never broached what he had new-brewed, but preached what
he had studied some competent time before: insomuch that he was wont to say that he would cross
the common proverb, which called 'Saturday the working day, and Monday the holiday, of preachers.'"

SIR WALTER SCOTT.

The long-expected death of this good and great man took place at Abbotsford on Friday, September
21. Our seventh volume contains a Portrait and Memoir of his life to the year 1826; and it
is our intention to prepare for our ensuing number, a brief memoir continued to his last days,
with a wood-cut portrait from the latest painting.

Eating Goose on Michaelmas Day.--Although this custom can be traced through upwards of three
centuries, its origin has not been decided by antiquaries. The commonly received belief is
that a goose forming part of the royal dinner when the news was brought to Queen Elizabeth
of the defeat of the Spanish Armada, her chivalrous majesty commanded that the dish (a goose)
then before her, might be served up on every 29th of September, to commemorate the above glorious
event. Mr. Douce, the learned antiquarian illustrator, saw the above reason "somewhere" (such
is his expression); but Mr. Brand thinks this rather to be a stronger proof that the custom
prevailed at court in Queen Elizabeth's time. Its origin, however, is referable to the previous
century: since, bringing a goose "fit for the lord's dinner," on this day appears to have been
customary even in the time of Edward IV.; and, that it was common before the Armada victory,
is shown the following passage in Gascoigne, who died in 1577, or eleven years before the above
event:--

  "And when the tenauntes come to pay their quarter's rent,
  They bring some fowle at Midsummer, a dish of fish at Lent;
  At Christmasse a capon, at Michaelmas a goose,
  And somewhat else at New Yere's-tide, for feare their leave flies
    loose."

The reason given by Blount, in his Tenures, is considered far from satisfactory. Beckwith,
his editor, says, "Probably no other reason can be given for this custom, but that Michaelmas
Day was a great festival, and geese at that time were most plentiful." The origin of the saying
that "if you eat goose on Michaelmas Day, you will never want money all the year round," is
explained, in the British Apollo, as follows:--

  The custom came up from the tenants presenting
  Their landlords with geese to incline their relenting
  On following payments.

Again:--

  For doubtless 'twas at first design'd
  To make the people seasons mind,
  That so they might apply their care
  To all those things which needful were;
  And by a good industrious hand,
  Know when and how t' improve their land.

Ellis, in his notes to Brand, says, "the practice of eating goose on Michaelmas Day does not
appear to prevail in any part of France. Upon St. Martin's Day, they eat turkey at Paris. They
likewise eat geese upon St. Martin's Day, Twelfth Day, and Shrove Tuesday, at Paris." In Denmark,
where the harvest is later than here, every family has a roasted goose for supper on St. Martin's
Eve. PHILO.

The reason why Pennsylvania was settled.

  "Penn refused to pull his hat off
  Before the king, and therefore set off,
  Another country to light pat on,
  Where he might worship with his hat on."  H.H.

"Mollissima tempora fandi."

A translation of the above is requested, in one line, which shall rhyme with the original. H.H.

Motto for a Cigar Smoker.

"Non fumum ex fulgore, sed ex fumo dare lucem cogita." H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

St. Cross, Winchester, received some weeks since, shall appear next week.

       *       *       *       *       *

           THE LATE SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.
             No. 203, price Twopence, of
                      THE MIRROR,
      Contains a STEEL-PLATE PORTRAIT and MEMOIR
                      of the late
                SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.

       *       *       *       *       *