The shields were erected on timber cradles in the shaft, and were shoved forward to the face
of the excavation. Concrete bulkheads, with the necessary air-locks, were then built across
the tunnels behind the shields. The shields were erected before the dividing walls between
the two contracts were placed. Rings of iron tunnel lining, backed by timbers spanning the
openings on the west side, were erected temporarily across the shafts in order to afford a
bearing for the shield jacks while shoving into the portals. The movement of the shield eastward
was continued in each tunnel for a distance of about 60 ft., and the permanent cast-iron tunnel
lining was erected as the shield advanced. Before breaking out of rock, it was necessary to
have air pressure in the tunnels. This required the building of bulkheads with air-locks inside
the cast-iron linings just east of the portals. Before erecting the bulkheads it was necessary
to close the annular space between the iron tunnel lining and the rock. The space at the portal
was filled with a concrete wall. After about twenty permanent rings had been erected in each
tunnel, two rings were pulled apart at the tail of the shield and a second masonry wall or
dam was built. The space between the two dams was then filled with grout. To avoid the possibility
of pushing the iron backward after the air pressure was on, rings of segmental plates, 5/8
in. thick and 13-7/8 in. wide, were inserted in eighteen circumferential joints in each tunnel
between the rings as they were erected. The plates contained slotted holes to match those in
the segments. After the rings left the shield, the plates were driven outward, and projected
about 5 in. When the tunnel was grouted, the plates were embedded.

The bulkheads were completed, and the tunnels were put under air pressure on the following dates:

Line D, on October 5th, 1905; Line C, on November 6th, 1905; Line B, on November 25th, 1905;
Line A, on December 1st, 1905.

This marked the end of the preparatory period.

In the deepest part of the river, near the pier-head line on the Manhattan side, there was
only 8 ft. of natural cover over the tops of the tunnels. This cover consisted of the fine
sand previously described, and it was certain that the air would escape freely from the tunnels
through it. To give a greater depth of cover and to check the loss of air, the contractor prepared
to cover the lines of the tunnels with blankets of clay, which, however, had been provided
for in the specifications. Permits, as described later, were obtained at different times from
the Secretary of War, for dumping clay in varying thicknesses over the line of work. The dumping
for the blanket allowed under the first permit was completed in February, 1906. The thickness
of this blanket varied considerably, but averaged 10 or 12 ft. on the Manhattan side. The original
blanket was of material advantage, but the depth of clay was insufficient to stop the loss of air.

The essential parts of the shields in the four tunnels were exactly alike. Those in Tunnels
B and D, however, were originally fitted with sectional sliding hoods and sliding extensions
to the floors of the working chambers, as shown by Fig. 1, Plate LXV. The shields in Tunnels
A and C were originally fitted with fixed hoods and fixed extensions to the floors, as shown
in Fig. 2, Plate LXV. A full description of the shields will be found in Mr. Japp's paper.

The shields in each pair of tunnels were advanced through the solid rock section about abreast
of each other, until test holes from the faces indicated soft ground within a few feet. As
the distance between the sides of the two tunnels was only 14 ft., it was thought best to let
Tunnels B and D gain a lead of about 100 ft. before Tunnels A and C opened out into soft ground,
in order that a blow from one tunnel might not extend to the other. Work in Tunnel C was shut
down on December 23d, 1905, after exposing sand to a depth of 3 ft. at the top, and it remained
closed for seven weeks. Work in Tunnel A was suspended on September 29th, 1905. By the time
Tunnel B had made the required advance, it, together with Tunnels C and D, was overtaxing the
capacities of the compressor plant. Only a little work was done in Tunnel C until July, 1906,
and work in Tunnel A was not resumed until October 22d, 1906.

TUNNELS DRIVEN WESTWARD FROM LONG ISLAND CITY.

Materials and Inception of the Work.--The materials met in Tunnel A are typical of all four
tunnels. From the Long Island shafts westward, in succession, there were 124 ft. of all-rock
section, 125 ft. of part rock and part earth section, 22 ft. of all-rock section, 56 ft. of
part rock and part earth section, 387 ft. of all-rock section, 70 ft. of part earth and part
rock section, and 1,333 ft. of all-earth section.

The materials passed through are indicated on Plate XIII. The rock was similar to that of the
Blackwell's Island Reef, and was likewise covered by a layer of sand and boulders. The remainder
of the soft ground was divided into three classes. The first was a very fine red sand, which
occurred in a layer varying in thickness from 6 ft. to at least 15 ft. It may have been much
deeper above the tunnel. It is the quicksand usually encountered in all deep foundations in
New York City. The following is the result of the sifting test of this sand:

                  Held on No.  30 sieve 0.6%
Passed  No.  30,   "   "  No.  40   "   0.4%
  "     No.  40,   "   "  No.  50   "   0.7%
  "     No.  50,   "   "  No.  60   "   2.4%
  "     No.  60,   "   "  No.  80   "  14.9%
  "     No.  80,   "   "  No. 100   "  54.0%
  "     No. 100,   "   "  No. 200   "   8.0%
  "     No. 200                     "  19.0%
                                      ------
                                      100.0%

This means that grains of all but 4% of it were less than 0.0071 in. in diameter. The 19% which
passed the No. 200 sieve, the grains of which were 0.0026 in. or less in diameter, when observed
with a microscope appeared to be perfectly clean grains of quartz; to the eye it looked like
ordinary building sand, sharp, and well graded from large to small grains. This sand, with
a surplus of water, was quick. With the water blown out of it by air pressure, it is stable,
stands up well, and is very easy to work. It appears to be the same as the reddish quicksand
found in most deep excavations around New York City.

The second material was pronounced "bull's liver" by the miners as soon as it was uncovered.
"Bull's liver" seems to be a common term among English-speaking miners the world over. It is
doubtful, however, if it is always applied to the same thing. In this case it consisted of
layers of blue clay and very fine red sand. The clay seemed to be perfectly pure and entirely
free from sand. It would break easily with a clean, almost crystalline, fracture, and yet it
was soft and would work up easily. The layers of clay varied in thickness from 1/16 in. to
1 in., while the thickness of the sand layer varied from 1/4 in. to several inches. The sand
was the same as the quicksand already described.

The "bull's liver" was ideal material in which to work a shield. It stood up as well and held
the air about as well as clay, and was much easier to handle.

The third material was a layer of fine gray sand which was encountered in the top of all the
tunnels for about 400 ft. just east of Blackwell's Island Reef. It was very open, and had grains
of rather uniform size.

During the starting out of the tunnels from the shafts, and for more than a year afterward,
the roof of the working chamber in the caissons and the locks previously described under the
Long Island shafts took the place of the bulkhead across the tunnels for confining the air
pressure.

The first work in air pressure was to remove the shield plug closing the opening in the side
of the shaft. This being done, the shield was shoved through the opening, and excavation begun.

At the start the shields were fitted with movable platforms, but no hoods of any kind were
placed until after the rock excavation was completed.

METHODS OF EXCAVATION.

The distribution of materials to be excavated, as previously outlined, divided the excavation
into three distinct classes, for which different methods had to be developed.

These three classes were:

First.--All-rock section. Second.--Rock in the bottom, earth in the top. Third.--All-earth section.

The extent of the second and third classes was much greater than that of the first, and they,
of course, determined the use of the shield. Shields had not previously been used extensively
in rock work, either where the face was wholly or partly in rock, and it was necessary to develop
the methods by experience. The specifications required that where rock was present in the bottom,
a bed of concrete should be laid in the form of a cradle on which to advance the shield.

All Rock.--At different times, three general methods were used for excavating in all-rock sections.
They may be called: The bottom-heading method; the full-face method; and the center-heading method.

The bottom-heading method was first tried. A heading, about 8 ft. high and 12 ft. wide, was
driven on the center line, with its bottom as nearly as possible on the grade line of the bottom
of the tunnel. It was drilled in the ordinary manner by four drills mounted on two columns.
The face of the headings varied from 10 to 30 ft. in advance of the cutting edge. After driving
the heading for about 10 ft., the bottom was cleared out and a concrete cradle was set. The
width of the cradles varied, but was generally from 8 to 10 ft.

The excavation was enlarged to full size as the shield advanced, the drills being mounted in
the forward compartments of the shield, as shown by Fig. 1, Plate LXVII, which represents the
conditions after the opening had been cut in the bulkhead, but before the new methods, mentioned
later, had been developed.

The sides and top were shot downward into the heading. The area of the face remaining behind
the heading was large, and a great number of holes and several rounds were required to fire
the face to advantage. As soon as firing was started at the face, the heading was completely
blocked, and operations there had to be suspended until the mucking was nearly completed. The
bottom-heading method was probably as good as any that could be devised for use with the shields
as originally installed. All the muck had to be taken from the face by hand and handled through
the chutes or doors. By drilling from the shield, some muck was blasted on to the extensions
of the floors and could be handled from the upper compartments. At best, however, the shield
with the closed transverse bulkhead was a serious obstacle to rapid work in rock sections.

The full-face method was only used where the rock was not considered safe for a heading. A
cut was fired at the bottom, together with side holes, in a manner quite similar to that adopted
in the first set of holes for a bottom heading. The cradle was then placed, in lengths of either
2.5 or 5 ft., after which the remainder of the face was fired in the same manner as for the
bottom-heading method. The closed transverse bulkhead with air-locks, as shown in Fig. 1, Plate
LXVI, was placed in the shield in the hope that it would only be necessary to maintain the
full air pressure in the working compartments in front of the bulkhead. It was also thought
that some form of bulkhead which could be closed quickly and tightly would be necessary to
prevent flooding the tunnel in case of blows. While no attempt was ever made to reduce the
pressure behind the shield bulkhead, it was obvious from the experience with Tunnels B and
D, while working in the sand between Manhattan and the reef, that the plan was not practicable,
and that the closed bulkhead in the bottom was a hindrance instead of a safeguard. As soon
as rock was encountered in those tunnels at the west edge of the reef, the contractor cut through
the bulkheads and altered them, as shown in Fig. 2, Plate LXVI.

Taking advantage of the experience gained, openings were cut through the bulkheads in Shields
A and C, while they were shut down near the edge of the Manhattan ledge. In erecting the shields
at Long Island City in May and June, 1906, openings were also provided. These shields had to
pass through about 700 ft. of rock at the start, the greater portion of which was all-rock
section. It was at that point that openings were first used extensively and methods were developed,
which would not have been possible except where ears could be passed through the shield. The
bottom-heading method was first tried, but the working space in front of the shield was cramped,
and but few men could be employed in loading the cars. To give more room, the heading was gradually
widened. The enlargement at the top, when made from the shield, blocked all work at the face
of the heading while the former operation was in progress. To reduce the delays, the heading
was raised, thus reducing the quantity of rock left in the top, and the bottom was taken out
as a bench. To avoid blocking the tracks when firing the top, a heavy timber platform was built
out from the floors of the middle working compartments. Most of the muck from the top was caught
on the platform and dropped into cars below. This method of working is shown by Fig. 2, Plate
LXVII. The platforms were not entirely satisfactory, and, later, the drills in the heading
were turned upward and a top bench was also drilled and fired, as shown by Fig. 3, Plate LXVII.
There was then so little excavation left in the top that the muck was allowed to fall on the
tracks and was quickly cleared away. The method just outlined is called the center-heading
method, and was the most satisfactory plan devised for full-rock sections.

Excavation in Part Rock and Part Earth.--This was probably the most difficult work encountered,
particularly when the rock was covered with boulders and coarse sharp sand which permitted
a free escape of air. It was necessary, before removing the rock immediately under the soft
ground, to excavate the earth in advance of the shield to a point beyond where the rock was
to be disturbed, and to support, in some way, the roof, sides, and face of the opening thus
made. The hoods were designed mainly for the purpose of supporting the roof and the sides.
With the fixed hood it was necessary either to excavate for the distance of the desired shove
in front of it or else to force the hood into the undisturbed material. To avoid this difficulty,
the sliding hoods were tried as an experiment.

In using the sliding hood, which will be described in detail in Mr. Japp's paper, the segments
commencing at the top were forced forward by the screw rod, one at a time, as far as possible
into the undisturbed material. Just enough material was then removed from underneath and in
front of the section to free it, and it was again forced forward. These operations were repeated
until the section had been extended far enough for a shove. As soon as two or three sections
had been pushed forward in this way, the face near the advance end of the sliding hood was
protected by a breast board set on edge and braced from the face. Gradually, all the segments
were worked forward, and, at the same time, the whole soft ground face was sheeted with timber.
At times polings were placed over the extended segments in order to make room for a second
shove, as shown on Plate LXVIII. When the shield was advanced the nuts on the screw rods were
loosened and the sections of the hoods were telescoped on to the shield. The idea was ingenious,
but proved impracticable, because of the unequal relative movements of the top and bottom of
the shield in shoving, bringing transverse strains on the hood sections.

With the fixed hood, poling boards were used to support the roof and sides, and the face was
supported in the manner described for the sliding hoods. The polings were usually maple or
oak planks, 2 in. thick, about 8 in. wide, and 6-1/2 ft. long. In advancing the face, the top
board of the old breast was first removed, then the material was carefully worked out for the
length of the poling. The latter was then placed, with the rear end resting over the hood and
the forward end forced as far as possible into the undisturbed material. When two or three
polings had been placed, a breast board was set. After several polings were in position, their
forward ends were supported by some form a cantilever attached to the hood. Plate LXIX shows
one kind of supports. In this way all the soft material was excavated down to the rock surface,
and the roof, sides, and face were sheeted with timber. In shoving, the polings in the roof
and sides were lost. It was found that the breast could usually be advanced 5 ft. with safety.
The fixed hood made it possible to set the face about 7 or 8 ft. in front of the cutting edge
without increasing the length of the polings. This distance was ample for two shoves, and was
generally adopted, although a great many faces were set for one shove only.

Fixed hoods were substituted for those of the sliding type, originally placed on Shields B
and D at Manhattan, at about the time the latter encountered the rock at the reef.

In placing the polings and breasting, all voids behind them were filled as far as possible
with marsh hay or bags of sawdust or clay. To prevent loss of air in open material, the joints
between the boards were plastered with clay especially prepared for the purpose in a pug mill.
The sliding extensions to the floors of the working compartments were often used, in the early
part of the work, to support the timber face or loose rock, as shown in Fig. 1, Plate LXVIII.
At such times the front of the extensions was held tightly against the planking by the pressure
of the floor jacks. While shoving, the pressure on the floor jacks was gradually released,
allowing the floors to slide back into the shield and still afford support to the face. The
extensions also afforded convenient working platforms. They were subject to severe bending
strains while the shield was being shoved, however, and the cast-iron rams were frequently
broken or jammed. The extensions did not last beyond the edge of the ledge at Manhattan, nor
more than about half through the rock work at Long Island City. The fixed extensions originally
placed on Shields A and C at Manhattan were not substantial enough, and lasted only a few days.

Wherever the rock face was sufficiently sound and high, a bottom heading was driven some 20
or 30 ft. in advance of the shield. The heading was driven and the cradle placed independently
of the face of the soft ground above, and in the manner described for all-rock sections. The
remainder of the rock face was removed by firing top and side rounds into the bottom heading
after the soft ground had been excavated. Great care had to be taken in firing in order not
to disturb the timber work or break the rock away from under the breast boards. If either occurred,
a serious run was likely to follow. The bottom-heading method is shown by Figs. 1, 2, and 3,
Plate LXVIII, and the breasting and poling by Fig. 2, Plate LXX.

In the early part of the work, where a bottom heading was impracticable, the soft ground was
first excavated as described above, and the rock was drilled by machines mounted on tripods,
and fired as a bench. By this plan no drilling could be done until the soft ground was removed.
This is called the rock-bench method.

Later the rock-cut method was devised. Drills were set up on columns in the bottom compartments
of the shield, and the face was drilled while work was in progress on the soft ground above.
The drilling was done either for a horizontal or vertical cut and side and top rounds. The
drillers were protected while at work by platforms of timber built out from the floors of the
compartments above. This plan, while probably not quite as economical of explosives, saved
nearly all the delay due to drilling the bench.

All-Earth Section.--As described by Messrs. Hay and Fitzmaurice, in a paper on the Blackwall
Tunnel,[C] the contractor had used, with marked success, shutters in the face of the shield
for excavating in loose open material. He naturally adopted the method for the East River work.
When the shields in Tunnels B and D, at Manhattan, the first to be driven through soft ground,
reached a point under the actual bulkhead line, work was partly suspended and shutters were
put in place in the face of the top and center compartments. The shutters in the center compartments
in Shield D are shown in Fig. 3, Plate LXX, while the method of work with the shutters is shown
by Figs. 4, 5, 6, and 7, Plate LXVIII. Fig. 4 on that plate shows the shield ready for a shove.
As the pressure was applied to the shield jacks, men loosened the nuts on the screws holding
the ends of the shutters, and allowed the latter to slide back into the working compartments.
At the end of the shove, the shutters were in the position shown in Fig. 5, Plate LXVIII. In
preparing for a new shove, the slides in the shutters were opened, and the material in front
was raked into the shield. At the same time, the shutters were gradually worked forward. The
two upper shutters in a compartment were generally advanced from 12 to 15 in., after which
the muck could be shoveled out over the bottom shutters, as shown on Fig. 6, Plate LXVIII,
and Fig. 3, Plate LXX. No shutters were placed in the bottom compartments, and as the air pressure
was not generally high enough to keep the face dry at the bottom, these compartments were pretty
well filled with the soft, wet quicksand. Just before shoving, this material was excavated
to a point where it ran in faster than it could be taken out. Much of the excavation in the
bottom compartment was done by the blow-pipe. During the shove the material from the bottom
compartment often ran back through the open door in the transverse bulkhead, as shown by Fig.
5, Plate LXVIII.

In the Blackwall Tunnel the material was reported to have been loose enough to keep in close
contact with the shutters at all times. In the East River Tunnels this was not the case. The
sand at the top was dry and would often stand with a vertical face for some hours. In advancing
the shutters, it was difficult to bring them into close contact with the face at the end of
the operation. The soft material at the bottom was constantly running into the lower compartment
and undermining the stiff dry material at the top. The latter gradually broke away, and, at
times, the actual face was some feet in advance of the shutters. Under those circumstances,
the air escaped freely through the unprotected sand face. The joints of the shutters were plastered
with clay, but this did not keep the air from passing out through the lower compartments. This
condition facilitated the formation of blows, which were of constant occurrence where shutters
were used in the sand. In Tunnels B and D, at Manhattan, the shutters were used in the above
manner clear across to the reef. In Tunnel C, which was considerably behind Tunnels B and D,
the shutters, although placed, were never used against the face, and the excavation was carried
on by poling the top and breasting the face. The change resulted in much better progress and
fewer blows. The excavation through the soft material in Tunnel C had just been completed when
Tunnel A was started, and the gangs of workmen were exchanged.

The work in soft ground in Tunnel A thus gained the benefit of the experience in Tunnel C.
Shutters were placed only in the top compartments in this tunnel, and, as in Tunnel C, were
never used in contact with the face. The method of work is shown by Figs. 1, 2, and 3, Plate
LXXI. The result was still more rapid progress in Tunnel A, and although the loss of air was
fully as great in this tunnel as in the other three, there was only one blow which caused any
considerable loss of pressure. In Tunnels A and C the diaphragms in the rear of the center
compartments of the lower tiers of working chambers were removed before the shields entered
the soft ground. The change was not of as much advantage in soft ground as in rock, but it
facilitated the removal of the soft wet sand in the bottom. In Tunnel A, after encountering
gravel, a belt conveyor was suspended from the traveling stage with one end projecting through
the opening into the working compartment. The use of the conveyor made it possible to continue
mucking at the face while the bottom plates of the iron lining were being put in place, and
resulted in a material increase in the rate of progress.

The shutters were not placed on the Long Island shields at all. Just before the shields passed
into all soft ground, a fixed hood was attached to each.

The method of working in soft ground from Long Island City is illustrated by Plate LXXII. The
full lines at the face of the shield show the position of the earth before a shove of the shield,
and the dotted lines show the same after the shove. The face was mined out to the front of
the hood and breasted down to a little below the floor of the top pockets of the shield. In
the middle pocket the earth was allowed to take its natural slope back on the floor. Toward
the rear of the bottom pockets it was held by stop-planks. The air pressure was always about
equal to the hydrostatic head at the middle of the shield, so that the face in the upper and
middle pockets was dry. In the lower pockets it was wet, and flowed under the pressure of shoving
the shield. By this method 4,195 lin. ft. of tunnel was excavated by the four Long Island shields
in 120 days, from November 1st, 1907, to March 1st, 1908. This was an average of 8.74 ft. per
day per shield.

The rate of progress, the nature of the materials, and the methods adopted are shown in Table 2.

