NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, JULY 3, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

THE ART SEASON.

Returning with the circling year, and advancing pari passu with the multitude of metropolitan
musical attractions, comes the more silent reign of the picture exhibitions--those great art-gatherings
from thousands of studios, to undergo the ultimate test of public judgment in the dozen well-filled
galleries, which the dilettante, or lounging Londoner, considers it his recurring annual duty
strictly to inspect, and regularly to gossip in. As places where everybody meets everybody,
and where lazy hours can be conveniently lounged away, the exhibitions in some sort supply
in the afternoon what the Opera and parties do in the evenings. Nearly all through the summer-day,
they are crowded with a softly-rustling, humming, buzzing crowd, coming and going perhaps,
taking little heed of the nominal attraction, but sauntering from room to room, or ensconcing
themselves in colonies or clusters of chairs, and lounging vacantly in cool lobbies. At energetic
sight-seers, who are labouring away, catalogue and pencil in hand, they stare languidly. They
really thought everybody had seen the pictures; they know they have: they have stared at them
until they became a bore. But this sort of people, who only come once, why, of course, they
suppose this sort of people must be allowed to push about as they please. But it is a confounded
nuisance; it is really.

The great army of art amateurs, connoisseurs, and the body who are regarded in the artistic
world with far greater reverence--the noted picture buyers and dealers, have come and seen,
and gone away again; after having lavishly expended their approbation or disapprobation, and
possibly in a less liberal degree, their cash. After the first week or so, the galleries begin
to clear of gentlemen of the class in question; even artists have got tired of coming to see
their own pictures, particularly if they be not well hung; and so the exhibition is generally
handed over during the greater part of its duration to the languid far niente elegant crowd
we have seen thronging its corridors. The grand day for the moneyed amateurs, who come to increase
their collections, is, however, that of the private view. This generally occurs on a Saturday,
and the public is admitted on the following Monday. Within an hour of the opening on the former
day, the rooms are crowded with a multitude of notabilities. You see that you are in a special
class of society, or rather, in two special classes--literary and artistic on the one hand;
wealthy and socially elevated on the other. The fact is evident in the general mutual acquaintanceship
which prevails, principally within each respective circle, but by no means exclusively so.
First, you are sure to observe a cluster of those peers and members of parliament who busy
themselves most in social, literary, and artistic questions. Bishops, too, are regular private-view
men; capital judges, moreover, and liberal buyers; and we seldom miss catching a glimpse of
some dozen faces, whose proprietors are men standing at the very top of our historic, philosophic,
and critical literature, and who move smilingly about, amid the keen but concealed inspection
of the crowd, who pass their names in whispers from group to group.

But the class of regular picture-buyers is quite sui generis. You may pitch upon your man in
a moment. Ten to one, he is old, and has all the shrivelled, high-dried appearance of the most
far-gone and confirmed bachelorism. Everything about him looks old and old-fashioned. His hair
is thin and gray, and he shuffles along on a couple of poor old shanks, which will never look
any stouter unless it be under the influence of a fit of the gout. He wears a white neckcloth,
arranged with the celebrated wisp-tie--shoes a great deal too big for him--and to his keen,
twinkling eyes he applies a pair of heavy horn or silver-set glasses. These old gentlemen appear
to know each other as if by magic. They cluster in groups like corks in a basin of water, and
then go hobbling eagerly along, peering closely into the more promising works, jerking their
heads from side to side, so as to get the painting in as many lights as possible; and full
of talk--good critical talk--about the productions in course of inspection. True, there may
be something in their observations speaking too much of the technical, and too little of the
more ideal faculty. They are greater upon flesh-tints and pearly grays, middle distances and
chiaroscuro, than upon conception, expression, or elevation or magnificence of sentiment. Nevertheless,
they know thoroughly what appertains to a good picture. They give a work its place in a moment,
and assign it to its author by internal evidence, with an unfailing accuracy, which speaks
of long training and constant familiarity with all the main studios of London. Perhaps you
observe one of our friends apparently fascinated before a particular canvas: he dances about,
so as to get it in every angle of light. Then he shuffles off, and brings two other skilful
old foggies, holding each by an arm; and the three go through the former ceremony as to the
lights, and then lay their heads together; and then our original personage glides softly up
to the table where the secretary's clerk sits with pen and ink before him, and whispers. The
clerk smiles affably--turns up a register: there are two or three confidential words interchanged;
and then he rises and sticks into the frame of the lucky picture a morsel of card, labelled
'Sold;' and leaves the purchaser gloating over his acquisition.

And where do these pictures go? Frequently to some quiet, solemn old house in the West End,
or to some grange or manor far down in the country. The picture-gallery is the nursery of that
house--its pride and its boast. Year after year has the silent family of canvas been increasing
and multiplying. Their proprietor is, as it were, their father. He has most likely no living
ties, and all his thoughts and all his ambitions are clustered round that silent gallery, where
the light comes streaming down from high and half-closed windows. The collection gradually
acquires a name. Descriptions of it are found in guide-books and works upon art. Strangers
come to see it with tickets, and a solemn housekeeper shews them up the silent stairs, and
through the lonesome mansion to its sanctum sanctorum. At length, perhaps, the old man takes
his last look at his pictures, and then shuts his eyes for ever. It may be, that within six
weeks the laboriously collected paintings are in a Pall-Mall auction-room, with all the world
bidding and buzzing round the pulpit; or it may also chance that a paragraph goes the round
of the papers, intimating that his celebrated and unrivalled collection of modern works of
art has been bequeathed by the late Mr So-and-so to the nation--always on the condition, that
it provides some fitting place for their preservation. The government receives bequests of
this kind oftener than it complies with the stipulation.

In the beginning of March, the first of the galleries opens its portals to the world. This
is the British Institution, established at the west end of Pall-Mall, and now in existence
for the better part of a half century. The idea of the establishment was to form a sort of
nursing institution for the Royal Academy. Here artists of standing and reputation were to
exhibit their sketches and less important works; and here more juvenile aspirants were to try
their wings before being subjected to the more severe ordeal of Trafalgar Square. The idea
was good, and flourished apace; so much so, that you not unfrequently find in the British Institution
no small proportion of works of a calibre hardly below the average of the Great Exhibition;
while the A. R. A.'s, and even the aristocratic R. A.'s[1] themselves, do not by any means
disdain to grace the humble walls of the three rooms in Pall-Mall. This year, the only picture
of Sir Edwin Landseer's exhibited--a wild Highland corry, with a startled herd of red deer--is
to be found in the British Institution. But the merit of the works is wonderfully unequal.
They are of all classes and all sizes, in water-colour and in oils. Clever sketches by clever
unknowns, rest beside sprawling frescos by youths whose ambition is vaster than their genius;
and finished and accomplished works of art are set off by the foils of unnumbered pieces of
unformed and not very promising mediocrity. Among them are the productions of many of the more
humble painters of genre subjects--the class who delight in portraying homely cottage interiors,
or troops of playing children, or bits of minutely-finished still life--or careful academical
studies of groups with all the conventions duly observed: this class of pictures musters strong,
and connoisseurs, without so much remarking their imperfections, carefully note their promise.

A month after the opening of the British Institution, three galleries become patent on the
same morning: the Old Water Colour, in Pall-Mall East, the New Water Colour, in Pall-Mall West,
and a still more recently founded society, called, somewhat pompously, the National Institution
of Fine Arts. These are mainly composed of dissenters from the other associations--gentlemen
who conceive that they have been ill-treated by Hanging Committees, and a large class of juvenile
but promising artists, who resort to the less crowded institutions in the hope of there meeting
with better places for their works than in the older and more established bodies. The two water-colour
galleries are both highly favoured exhibitions, and present works of an importance quite equal
to those of the Academy itself. Water-colour painting is indeed a national branch of art in
England. Neither French, Germans, nor Italians, can presume for a moment to cope with us in
the matter of aquarelles. They have no notion of the power of the medium, of the strong and
rich effects it is capable of producing, and the transparency of the tints which a great water-colour
artist can lay on. Nearly twenty years ago, there was but one water-colour society; but increasing
numbers, and the usual artistic feuds, produced a partly natural, partly hostile, separation.
The ladies and gentlemen who withdrew were mainly figure painters; those who stayed were mainly
landscape artists; and thus it happens, that while in the new society you are principally attracted
by historic and genre groups and, scenes, in the old you are fascinated by landscape and city
pictures of the very highest order of art. The painters, too, you observe, are very industrious.
The fact is, they can work more quickly in water than in oil. Copley Fielding will perhaps
exhibit a score of landscapes, blazing with summer sunshine; David Cox, half as many--stern
and rugged in tone and style; George Tripp will have painted his fresh river and meadow scenes
by the dozen; and the two brothers Callum will each have poured in old Gothic streets and squares,
and ships in calm and storm, which catch your eye scores of times upon the walls. As in the
other society, many of the finest 'bits' contributed by the water-colourists are not much above
miniature size. The screens on which these gems are hung attract fully as much as the walls
with their more ambitious freight; and Jenkin's rustic lasses, and Topham's Irish groups, and
Alfred Fripp's dark-eyed Italian monks and Campagna peasants, are as much gazed at as Richardson's
sunny landscapes or Bentley's breezy seas.

Five minutes' walk takes us to the new society. No lack of landscape here; but it is inferior
to that in the rival institution, and its attractions are eclipsed by ambitious pictures of
historic or fictitious interest; the scene almost always laid in the picturesque streets or
rooms of a mediæval city, and the groups marvels of display in the matter of the painting of
armour, arms, and the gorgeous velvets, minivers, and brocades of feudal grande tenue. See
Mr Edward Corbould. He is sure to be as picturesque and chivalrous as possible. There is the
very ring of the rough old times in his caracoling processions of ladies and knights, or his
fierce scenes of hand-to-hand fight, with battered armour, and flashing weapons, and wounded
men drooping from their steeds. Or he paints softer scenes--passages of silken dalliance and
love; ladies' bowers and courtly revels in alcoved gardens. Mr Haghe is equally mediæval, but
more sternly and gloomily so. He delights in sombre, old Flemish rooms, with dim lights streaming
through narrow Gothic windows, upon huge chimney-pieces and panellings, incrusted with antique
figures, carved in the black heart of oak--knights, and squires, and priests of old. Then he
peoples these shadowy chambers with crowds of stern burghers, or grave ecclesiastics, or soldiers
'armed complete in mail;' and so forms striking pieces of gloomy picturesqueness. Figure-paintings
of a lighter calibre also abound. There is Mr John Absolon, who is in great request for painting
figures in panoramic pictures; Mr Lee, whose graceful rural maidens are not to be surpassed:
Mr Warren, whose heart is ever in the East; and Mr Mole, who loves the shielings of the Highland
hills. Landscape, though on the whole subordinate to genre pictures, is very respectably represented;
and the lady-artists usually make a good show on the screens, particularly in the way of graceful
single figures, and the prettinesses of flower and fruit painting.

We can merely mention the Society of British Artists and the National Institution of Fine Art.
Both are mainly composed of the natural overgrowth of artists who prefer a speedy and favourable
opportunity for the display of their works in minor galleries, to waiting for years and years
ere they can work themselves up to good positions on the walls of the Academy. Many of these
gentlemen, however, exhibit both in the smaller and the greater collection; but here and there
an artist will be found obstinately confining his contributions to one pet establishment--possibly
entertaining a notion that he has been deeply wronged by the Hanging Committee of another.

Both of the exhibitions under notice are very various in merit; but each generally contains
some able works, and the specialties of one or two painters distinguished by notable peculiarities.
Thus the president of the British Artists, Mr Hurlstone, has for several seasons confined himself
to Spanish subjects; Mr West paints Norwegian landscape; Mr Pyne sends to this gallery only
his very splendid lake-pictures; and Mr Woolmer's curious sketches, which seem compounded of
the styles of Turner and Watteau, blaze almost exclusively upon the walls. The best men of
the National Institution contribute also to the Royal Academy--as, for example, Mr Glass, with
his capital groups of hunters or troopers, so full of life and movement; and Mr Parker, with
his smugglers and coast-boatmen. In this exhibition--and, indeed, in all the London exhibitions--a
family, or rather a race or clan of artists, connected at once by blood and style, and rejoicing
in the name of Williams, abound and flourish exceedingly. These Williamses are dreadful puzzlers
to the students of the catalogue; they positively swarm upon every page, and the bewildered
reader is speedily lost in a perfect chaos of undistinguishable initials. Sometimes, indeed,
the Williamses come forth under other appellations--they appear as Percies and Gilberts; but
the distinguishing mark is strong, and a moment's inspection convinces the amateur that the
landscape before him, attributed to Mr So-and-so, is the work of 'another of these everlasting
Williamses.'

But the first Saturday of May arrives, and with it many a rumour, true and false, of the state
of matters within the Royal Academy--of the academicians who exhibit, and of what are to be
'the' pictures. From early morning, St Martin's bells have been ringing, and a festival flag
flies from the steeple; no great pomp, to be sure, but it marks the occasion. About noon, the
Queen's party arrives, and Her Majesty is conducted about the rooms by the leading members
of the Academy. Between one and two, she departs; and immediately after, the crowd of ticket-holders
for the private view cluster before the closed gratings. Punctually as the last stroke of the
hour strikes, the portals are flung open, and a cataract of eager amateurs rush up the staircases,
and make their way straight to the inner room, or room of honour, all in quest of the picture,
to which the pas has been given, by its being hung upon the line in the centre of the eastern
wall of the apartment. The salons fill as by magic; in half an hour, you can hardly move through
a crowd of dignitaries of all kinds--hereditary, social, literary, scientific, and artistic.
Perhaps, indeed, there is no muster in London which collects a greater number of personages
famous in every point of view. The ladies of the aristocracy swarm as at a drawing-room. The
atmosphere is all one rustle of laces and silks; and it is anything but easy to make one's
way among the bevies of clustered beauties who flock round their chaperone, all one flutter
of ribbons, feathers, and flowers. And to the Academy, at all events, come all manner of political
notabilities: you find a secretary of state by your elbow, and catch the muttered criticism
of a prime-minister. Ordinary peers and members of parliament are thicker than blackberries.
Bishops prevail as usual; and apropos of ecclesiastical costumes, peculiar looped-up beavers
and single-breasted greatcoats, the odds are, that you will be attracted by the portly figure
and not very refined face of the Romish dignitary whose pretensions, a couple of years ago,
set the country in a blaze. The muster of literary men is large and brilliant. Mr Hallam is
most likely there as Professor of Ancient History to the Academy; and Mr Macaulay as Professor
of Ancient Literature. Sir George Staunton puts in an appearance as Secretary for Foreign Correspondence;
and blooming Sir Robert Harry Inglis, with the largest of roses at his button-hole, looks the
most genial and good-humoured of 'antiquaries.' The Academicians--lucky Forty!--muster early.
Happy fellows! they have no qualms of doubt, or sick-agonies of expectation as they mount the
broad flight of steps. They have been giving hints to the Hanging Committee, or they have been
on the Hanging Committee themselves. Well they know that their works have been at least provided
for--all on the line, or near it; all in the best lights; and all titivated and polished up
and varnished on the walls, and adapted, as it were, to the situation. You may know an R. A.
on the private view-day by the broad, expanding jollity of his visage, if he be a man of that
stamp, or by a certain quiet, self-satisfied smile of self-complacence, if he be a man of another.

But he looks and bears himself as a host. He cicerones delighted parties of lady-friends with
his face all one smile of courtesy, or he does the honours with dignity and a lofty sense of--we
do not speak disrespectfully--of being on his own dunghill, in respect to the more important
exigeant connoisseurs, whom he thinks it right to patronise. He always praises his brethren's
works, and discovers in them hidden virtues. For the Associates, he has minor smiles and milder
words. The ordinary mob of exhibiters he looks down upon with a calm and complacent gaze, as
though from the summit of a Mont Blanc of superiority. At any bold defier of the conventions
and traditions of the Academy drawing-school, he shakes his head. The pre-Raphaelite heresy
was a sore affliction to him. He looked upon Millais and Hunt as a Low-church bishop would
regard Newman and Pusey. He prophesied that they would come to no good. He called them 'silly
boys;' and he looks uneasily at the crowds who throng before this year's picture of the Huguenot
Couple--not recovering his self-complacency until his eye catches his own favourite work, when
he feels himself gradually mollified, and smiles anew upon the world.

Not so the nameless artist, whose work of many toiling days, and many sleepless nights, has
been sent in unprotected to take its chance. He knows nothing of its fate until he can get
a catalogue. It may be on the line in the east room; it may be above the octagon-room door;
it may not be hung at all. Only the great artistic guns are invited to the private view, the
rest must wait till Monday. Possibly a stray catalogue puts him so far out of his pain on Sunday.
If not, he passes a feverish and unhappy time till the afternoon of Monday; and then, first
among the crowd, rushes franticly up stairs. We had an opportunity the other day of seeing
the result of a case of the kind. The picture--a work of great fancy and high feeling, but
deficient in manipulative skill--the artist, a poet in the true sense of the word, had spent
months in dreaming and in joying over. He found it in the dingiest corner of the octagon-room.
His lip quivered and his chest heaved. He pulled his hat further down on his face, and walked
quickly and quietly out.

We would gladly, indeed, see the octagon-room abolished. A picture is degraded, and an artist
is insulted, by a painting being hung in this darksome and 'condemned cell.' The canvas gets
a 'jail-bird' stamp, and its character is gone. In France, at the Palais-Royal, the young artists
have a far better chance. After a stated time, the pictures, which, as the best have primarily
had the best places, change stations with their inferiors; so that everybody in turn enjoys
the advantages of the brightest lights and the most favourable points of view.

No need, of course, of attempting even the most summary sketch of the styles and ordinary subjects
of the great painters who bear aloft the banner of the British school of art--of Landseer's
glimpses of the Highlands; or Stanfield's skyey, breezy landscapes; of the quiet pieces of
English rural scenery--meadows, and woodland glades, and river bits, fresh and rich, and green
and natural--of our Lees, our Creswicks, our Coopers, our Witheringtons, our Redgraves, our
Ausdills; of the classic elegance and elevated sentiment of groups by our Dyces and our Eastlakes;
of the abundance of clever genre subjects--scenes from history or romance--poured in by our
Wards, our Friths, our Pooles, our Elmores, our Eggs; or of--last, not least--the strange but
clever vagaries of that new school, the pre-Raphaelites, who are startling both Academy and
public by the quaintness of their art-theories, and the vehement intensity of their style of
execution. All the summer long, the world is free to go and gaze upon them. All the summer
long, the salons are crowded from morning till night--in the earlier hours, by artists and
conscientious amateurs, the humbler sort of folks, who have daily work to do; in the later,
by our old friends, the staring, insouciant, lounging, fashionable mob, whose carriages and
Broughams go creeping lazily round and round Trafalgar Square. And at parties and balls, and
all such reunions, the exhibition forms a main topic of discourse. Bashful gentlemen know it
for a blessing. Often and often does it serve as a most creditable lever to break the ice with.
The newspapers long resound with critical columns apropos of Trafalgar Square. You see 'sixth
notice' attached to a formidable mass of print, and read on, or pass on, as you please. But
you distinctly observe, at any rate, the social and conversational, as well as the artistic
importance of the Royal Academy; and you confess, that a London season would be shorn of its
brightest feature if you shut the gates of the National Gallery.

                                             A. B. R.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Associates Royal Academy, and Royal Academicians.

BILL WILLIAMS:

A STORY OF CALIFORNIA.

It was in the first flush of the Californian fever, when moderate people talked of making one's
fortune in a fortnight, and the more sanguine believed that golden pokers would soon become
rather common, that the Betsy Jones from London to New Zealand, with myself on board as a passenger,
dropped anchor in the bay of San Francisco, and master and man turned out for the diggings.
It is my impression that not a soul remained on board but the surgeon, who was sick, and the
negro cook, who wouldn't leave him; and the first man I met on the deck of the Go-Ahead steamer,
which took as up to Sacramento, was our enterprising captain, clad in a canvas jacket and trousers,
with the gold-washing apparatus, two shirts, and a tin kettle, slung at his back. The crew
followed his example, and all the passengers. The latter were some thirty men, from every corner
of Britain, and of various birth and breeding. There were industrious farm-servants and spendthrift
sons of gentlemen among them. Some had sailed with money, to purchase land in the southern
colony, some were provided only with their hopes and sinews; but California was an irresistible
temptation to them all, and by general desire, they had come to try their luck at the washing.
We had mere boys and men of grizzling hair in our company. Two were married, but they wisely
left their wives in San Francisco, where, having brought with them some spare blankets and
crockery, the ladies improvised a boarding-house, and I believe realised more than their wandering
lords. Nevertheless, we, one and all, went up the broad river with loftier expectations than
the prudent among us cared to make public.

There was one who made no secret of his hopes. The man's name was Bill Williams. I had had
a loose acquaintance with Bill from school-time, for we had been brought up in the same good
town of Manchester, where his father was a respectable tradesman, and his three brothers were
still in business. Many a town and many a trade had Bill tried to little purpose. Never doing
what his relatives could call well, he had gone through a series of failures, which tired out
both kinsmen and creditors, and at length shipped for New Zealand, leaving a wife and seven
children to the care of the said three brothers, till he should see how the climate agreed
with him, and find a home for them. Bill did not belong to the extended fraternity of scapegraces.
He was neither wild nor worthless, in the ordinary sense of those terms, but there was a faith
in him, the origin of which baffled his most penetrating friends, that he was to get money
somehow without working for it by any of the common methods. Unlike many a professor of better
principles, Bill had carried that faith into practice. Under its influence, he had engaged
in every scheme for making fortunes with incredible rapidity which coffee-house acquaintances
or advertising sheets brought to his knowledge. There was not a banking bubble by which he
had not lost, nor a mining company of vast promise and brief existence in which he had not
held shares. Uncompromisingly averse to the jog-trot work of ordinary mortals. Bill was neither
indolent nor timid in his own peculiar fashion of seeking riches. He would have gone up in
a balloon to any height, or down in a diving-bell to depths yet unsounded, had the promise
been large enough; and there was something so suitable to his inclinations in the Californian
reports, that he was the prime mover of our visit to San Francisco, and the entire desertion
of the ship. Strange to say, every man on board believed in Bill; from the captain to the cabin-boy,
they had all listened to his tales. Where he had learned such a number, fortune knows, concerning
found treasures, and wealth suddenly obtained by unexpected and rather impracticable ways.
That was the whole circle of Bill's literature, and going over it appeared his chief joy; but
the gem of the collection was a prophecy which a gipsy woman, whom his mother met once in a
country excursion, had uttered concerning himself--that he should find riches he never wrought
for, and leave a great fortune behind him. In the faith of that prediction Bill had lived;
and it was a curious illustration of the sympathetic force inherent in a firm belief, that
both passengers and seamen, even those who affected to laugh at the rest of what they called
his wonderful yarns, entertained a secret conviction in favour of that tale, and felt secure
of gold-gathering in Bill's company.

I am not certain that my own mind was entirely clear of a similar impression, but the two among
us who contemned loudest and believed most devoutly, were the captain and his mate. They were
brothers, and of Jewish parentage; the rest of the family still hang about an old-clothes and
dyeing establishment in the neighbourhood of Houndsditch. I made that discovery by an accidental
glance at a torn and mislaid letter before we left the Thames, and thought proper to reserve
it for private meditation. The relationship of the two was kept a profound secret, for reasons
best known to themselves; but to the eye at least it was revealed by their striking resemblance,
both being small, spare, dingy-complexioned men, with keen, cunning eyes, and faces that looked
as hard and sharp as steel. Ever since they first heard of the prophecy, they had half ridiculed,
half flattered, and kept remarkably familiar with Bill. That familiarity rather increased as
we went up the Sacramento. A goodly number we made on the deck of the Go-Ahead, our only place
of accommodation; and at length we reached the new town, the golden city, which takes its name
from the river, christened in old times of Spanish voyaging by some discoverer for his Catholic
majesty, and which was to be the metropolis of the diggings. When I first saw it, it consisted
of some hundred huts and tents, a large frame-house, in which an advertising board informed
us there was an ordinary, a gaming-table, and all manner of spirits; and a timber wharf, somewhat
temporarily put together, at which we landed. Yet the city was rising, as cities rise only
in the western hemisphere: broad streets and squares were marked out; building was going forward
on all sides; while bullock-wagons, canoes, and steamers, brought materials by land and water.
The enterprise and vagrancy of all nations were there, as we had seen them at San Francisco;
and those not engaged in building the town, were going off in caravans to the gold-gathering.

We fraternised with a company of Americans, who said they knew 'a bluff that flogged creation
for the real metal,' and sold us two spare tents and a wagon, at a price marvellous to ask
or pay. Our journey was not far. It led along the course of the Sacramento, and towards evening
we came in sight of the diggings. A strange sight it was for one accustomed to London streets
and shops. The Sacramento runs through a great inclined plane, sloping from the hill-country
to the sea. Here and there, it is covered with low coppice or underwood; but the greater part
is bare and sandy, or sprinkled over with thin, dry waving grass. As far as the eye could reach
upon the plain, and up the river-banks, the smoke of fires was rising from hut, tent, and upturned
wagon, which served for temporary dwellings. Groups of men were hard at work in small trenches,
and numbers more stood with pan and cradle, washing out the gold in the shallow creeks of the
river. 'Our location,' as the Americans called it, was an earthy promontory jutting far out
into the water. Close by its landward base we pitched our tents, turned up our wagon--the bullocks
that brought it belonged to the Americans, who promised to sell us a share when they were killed--and
commenced operations. Digging out tenacious clay, and washing its sandy particles for minute
grains of gold, sleeping under canvas at night, and living on half-cooked and not very choice
provisions, have little in them of interest worth relating. The first thing that struck me,
was the silence that prevailed among the workers. In a district so populous, scarcely a sound
was heard from tent, trench, or river. Caravan after caravan, as it arrived, pitched its tents,
and fell to work in the same quiet fashion. A cynical character might have attributed this
to the absence of all feminine faces, for in my time there was not a woman at the diggings.
Incredible as it may seem to the fair ones themselves, they were not missed; but nobody missed
anything except gold. Relations parted; old comrades left each other with scarcely a leave--taking
in search of better gatherings; our American friends began to get tired of the bluff that flogged
creation; for although we were getting gold, it was but little, and the more impatient spirits
of our company departed with them to find another.

I wondered that Bill did not join their company. He was long ago weary of gold-washing; the
work was too regular, and the returns far too slow for him. He used to declare that shopkeeping
was better; and it is probable that most of us had similar convictions regarding the vocations
we had left in Britain; but except occasionally cooking for the rest, smoking the tobacco he
had providently brought with him, and suggesting wild projects of digging down the bluff, and
dredging the river for lamps of gold, which, he said, all the grains we found came off, Bill
at last did nothing at all. With hard labour and harder fare, we had collected some of us more
and some less of the precious dust; but nobody's fortune was yet made, and the rainy season set in.

