For while the least fortunate sort of children have at any rate the protection of the police
and school inspectors, and the baser sort of parent has all sorts of public and quasi-public
helps and doles, the families that make the middle mass of our population are still in the
position of the families of a hundred years ago, and have no help under heaven against the
world. It matters not how well the home of the skilled artisan's wife or the small business
man's wife has been managed--she may have educated her children marvellously, they may be clean,
strong, courteous, intelligent--if the husband gets out of work or suffers from business ill-luck
or trade depression, or chances to be killed uninsured, down they all go to want. Such insurance
as they are able to make, and it needs a tremendously heavy premium to secure an insurance
that will not mean a heavy fall of income with the bread-winner's death--must needs be in a
private insurance office, and there is no effectual guarantee for either honesty or solvency
in that. In most of the petty insurance business the thrifty poor are enormously overcharged
and overreached. Rumour has been busy, and I fear only too justly, with the financial outlook
of some of the Friendly Societies upon which the scanty security of so many working-class families
depends. Such investments as the lower and middle-class father makes of surplus profits and
savings must be made in ignorance of the manœuvres of the big and often quite ruthless financiers
who control the world of prices. If he builds or trades, he does so as a small investor, at
the highest cost and lowest profit. Half the big businesses in the world have been made out
of the lost savings of the small investor; a point to which I shall return later. People talk
as though Socialism proposed to rob the thrifty industrious man of his savings. He could not
be more systematically robbed of his savings than he is at the present time. Nowhere beyond
the limit of the Post Office Savings' Bank is there security--not even in the gilt-edged respectability
of Consols, which in the last ten years have fallen from 114 to under 82. Consider the adventure
of the thrifty well-meaning citizen who used his savings-bank hoard to buy Consols at the former
price, and now finds himself the poorer for not having buried his savings in his garden. The
middling sort of man saves for the sake of wife and child; our State not only fails to protect
him from the adventures of the manipulating financier, but it deliberately avoids competition
with banker, insurance agent and promoter. In no way can the middle-class or artisan parent
escape the financier's power and get real security for his home or his children's upbringing.

Not only is every parent of any but the richest classes worried and discouraged by the universal
insecurity of outlook in this private adventure world, but at every turn his efforts to do
his best for his children are discouraged. If he has no children, he will have all his income
to spend on his own pleasures; he need only live in a little house, he pays nothing for school,
less for doctor, less for all the needs of life, and he is taxed less; his income tax is the
same, no bigger; his rent, his rates, his household bills are all less....

The State will not even help him to a tolerable home, to wholesome food, to needed fuel for
the new citizens he is training for it. The State now-a-days in its slow awakening does show
a certain concern in the housing of the lowest classes, a concern alike stimulated and supplemented
by such fine charities as Peabody's for example, but no one stands between the two-hundred-a-year
man and his landlord in the pitiless struggle to get. For every need of his children whom he
toils to make into good men and women, he must pay a toll of owner's profits, he must trust
to the anything but intelligent greed of private enterprise.

The State will not even insist that a sufficiency of comfortable, sanitary homes shall be built
for his class; if he wants the elementary convenience of a bathroom, he must pay extra toll
to the water shareholder; his gas is as cheap in quality and dear in price as it can be; his
bread and milk, under the laws of supply and demand, are at the legal minimum of wholesomeness;
the coal trade cheerfully raises his coal in mid-winter to ruinous prices. He buys clothes
of shoddy and boots of brown paper. To get any other is nearly impossible for a man with three
hundred pounds a year. His newspapers, which are supported by advertisers and financiers, in
order to hide the obvious injustice of this one-man-fight against the allied forces of property,
din in his ears that his one grievance is local taxation, his one remedy "to keep down the
rates"--the "rates" which do at least repair his roadway, police his streets, give him open
spaces for his babies and help to educate his children, and which, moreover, constitute a burthen
he might by a little intelligent political action shift quite easily from his own shoulders
to the broad support of capital and land.

If the children of the decent skilled artisan and middle-class suffer less obviously than the
poorer sort of children, assuredly the parents in wearing anxiety, in toil and limitation and
disappointment, suffer more. And in less intense and dramatic, but perhaps even more melancholy
ways, the children of this class do suffer. They do not die so abundantly in infancy, but they
grow up, too many of them, to shabby and limited lives; in Britain they are still, as a class,
extraordinarily ill educated--many of them still go to incompetent, understaffed and ill-equipped
private adventure schools--they are sent into business prematurely, often at fourteen or fifteen,
they become mechanical "respectable" drudges in processes they do not understand. They may
escape want and squalor for a while, perhaps, but they cannot escape narrowness and limitation
and a cramped and anxious life. If they get to anything better than that, it is chiefly through
almost heroic parental effort and sacrifice.

The plain fact is that the better middle-class parents serve the State in this matter of child-rearing,
the less is their reward, the less is their security, the greater their toil and anxiety. Is
it any wonder then that throughout this more comfortable but more refined and exacting class,
the skilled artisan and middle-class, there goes on something even more disastrous, from the
point of view of the State, than the squalor, despair and neglect of the lower levels, and
that is a very evident strike against parentage? While the very poor continue to have many
children who die or grow up undersized, crippled or half-civilized, the middle mass, which
can contrive with a struggle and sacrifice to rear fairly well-grown and well-equipped offspring,
which has a conscience for the well-being and happiness of the young, manifests a diminishing
spirit for parentage, its families fall to four, to three, to two--and in an increasing number
of instances there are no children at all.

With regard to the struggling middle-class and skilled artisan class parent, even more than
to the lower poor, does the Socialist insist upon the plain need, if only that our State and
nation should continue, of endowment and help. He deems it not simply unreasonable but ridiculous
that in a world of limitless resources, of vast expenditure, of unparalleled luxury, in which
two-million-pound battleships and multi-millionaires are common objects, the supremely important
business of rearing the bulk of the next generation of the middling sort of people should be
left almost entirely to the unaided, unguided efforts of impoverished and struggling women
and men. It seems to him almost beyond sanity to suppose that so things must or can continue.

§ 4.

And what I have said of the middle-class parent is true with certain modifications of all the
classes above it, except that in a monarchy you reach at last one State-subsidized family--in
the case of Britain a very healthy and active group, the Royal family--which is not only State
supported, but also beyond the requirements of any modern Socialist, State bred. There are
enormous handicaps at every other social level upon efficient parentage, and upon the training
of children for any public and generous end. Parentage is treated as a private foible, and
those who undertake its solemn responsibilities are put at every sort of disadvantage against
those who lead sterile lives, who give all their strength and resources to vanity and socially
harmful personal indulgence. These latter, with an ampler leisure and ampler means, determine
the forms of pleasure and social usage, they "set the fashion" and bar pride, distinction or
relaxation to the devoted parent. The typical British aristocrat is not parent bred, but class
bred, a person with a lively sense of social influences and no social ideas. The one class
that is economically capable of making all that can be made of its children is demoralized
by the very irresponsibility of the wealth that creates this opportunity. This is still more
apparent in the American plutocracy, where perhaps half the women appear to be artificially
sterilized spenders of money upon frivolous things.

No doubt there is in the richer strata of the community a certain proportion of families with
a real tradition of upbringing and service; such English families as the Cecils, Balfours and
Trevelyans, for example, produce, generation after generation, public-spirited and highly competent
men. But the family tradition in these cases is an excess of virtue rather than any necessary
consequence of a social advantage; it is a defiance rather than a necessity of our economic
system. It is natural that such men as Lord Hugh and Lord Robert Cecil, highly trained, highly
capable, but without that gift of sympathetic imagination which releases a man from the subtle
mental habituations of his upbringing, should idealize every family in the world to the likeness
of their own--and find the Socialist's Over-Parent of the State not simply a needless but a
mischievous and wicked innovation. They think--they will, I fear, continue to think--of England
as a world of happy Hatfields, cottage Hatfields, villa Hatfields, Hatfields over the shop,
and Hatfields behind the farmyard--wickedly and wantonly assailed and interfered with by a
band of weirdly discontented men. It is a dream that the reader must not share. Even in the
case of the rich and really prosperous it is an illusion. In no class at the present time is
there a real inducement to the effectual rearing of trained and educated citizens; in every
class are difficulties and discouragements.

This state of affairs, says the Socialist, is chaotic or indifferent to a sea of wretchedness
and failure, in health, vigour, order and beauty. Such pleasure as it permits is a gaudy indulgence
filched from children and duty; such beauty--a hectic beauty stained with injustice; such happiness--a
happiness that can only continue so long as it remains blind or indifferent to a sea of wretchedness
and failure. Our present system of isolated and unsupported families keeps the mass of the
world beyond all necessity painful, ugly and squalid. It stands condemned, and it must end.

§ 5.

Let me summarize what has been said in this chapter in a compact proposition, and so complete
the statement of the First Main Generalization of Socialism.

The ideas of the private individual rights of the parent and of his isolated responsibility
for his children are harmfully exaggerated in the contemporary world. We do not sufficiently
protect children from negligent, incompetent, selfish or wicked parents, and we do not sufficiently
aid and encourage good parents; parentage is too much a matter of private adventure, and the
individual family is too irresponsible. As a consequence there is a huge amount of avoidable
privation, suffering and sorrow, and a large proportion of the generation that grows up, grows
up stunted, limited, badly educated and incompetent in comparison with the strength, training
and beauty with which a better social organization could endow it.

The Socialist holds that the community as a whole should be responsible, and every individual
in the community, married or single, parent or childless, should be responsible for the welfare
and upbringing of every child born into that community. This responsibility may be entrusted
in whole or in part to parent, teacher or other guardian--but it is not simply the right but
the duty of the State--that is to say of the organized power and intelligence of the community--to
direct, to inquire, and to intervene in any default for the child's welfare.

Parentage rightly undertaken is a service as well as a duty to the world, carrying with it
not only obligations but a claim, the strongest of claims, upon the whole community. It must
be provided for like any other public service; in any completely civilized State it must be
sustained, rewarded and controlled. And this is to be done not to supersede the love, pride
and conscience of the parent, but to supplement, encourage and maintain it.

§ 6.

This is the first of the twin generalizations upon which the whole edifice of modern Socialism
rests. Its fellow generalization we must consider in the chapter immediately to follow.

But at this point the reader unaccustomed to social questions will experience a difficulty.
He will naturally think of this much of change we have broached, as if it was to happen in
a world that otherwise was to remain just as the world is now, with merchants, landowners,
rich and poor and all the rest of it. You are proposing, he may say, what is no doubt a highly
desirable but which is also a quite impossible thing. You propose practically to educate all
the young of the country and to pay at least sufficient to support them and their mothers in
decency--out of what? Where will you get the money?

That is a perfectly legitimate question and one that must be answered fully if our whole project
is not to fall to the ground.

So we come to the discussion of material means, of the wherewithal, that is to say to the "Economics"
of Socialism. The reader will see very speedily that this great social revolution we propose
necessarily involves a revolution in business and industry that will be equally far reaching.
The two revolutions are indeed inseparable, two sides of one wheel, and it is scarcely possible
that one could happen without the other.

Of course the community supports all its children now--the only point is that it does not support
them in its collective character as a State "as a whole." All the children in the world are
supported by all the people in the world, but very unfairly and irregularly, through the intervention
of that great multitude of small private proprietors, the parents. When the parents fail, Charity
and the Parish step in. If the reader will refer to those ten cases from Edinburgh I have already
quoted in Chapter III., § 1, he will note that in eight out of the ten there comes in the eleemosynary
element; in the seventh case especially he will get an inkling of its waste. A change in the
system that diminished (though it by no means abolished) this separate dependence of children
upon parents, each child depending upon those "pieces" from its particular parental feast,
need not necessarily diminish the amount of wheat, or leather, or milk in the world; the children
would still get the bread and milk and boots, but through different channels and in a different
spirit. They might even get more. The method of making and distribution will evidently have
to be a different one and run counter to currently accepted notions; that is all. Not only
is it true that a change of system need not diminish the amount of food in the world; it might
even increase it. The Socialist declares that his system would increase it. He proposes a method
of making and distribution, a change in industrial conditions and in the conventions of property,
that he declares will not only not diminish but greatly increase the production of the world,
and changes in the administration that he is equally convinced will insure a far juster and
better use of all that is produced.

This side of his proposals we will proceed to consider in our next chapter.

CHAPTER IV

THE SECOND MAIN GENERALIZATION OF SOCIALISM

§ 1.

We have considered the Socialist criticism of the present state of affairs in relation to the
most important of all public questions, the question of the welfare and upbringing of the next
generation. We have stated the general principle of social reconstruction that emerges from
that criticism. We have now to enter upon the question of ways and means, the economic question.
We have to ask whether the vision we have conjured up of a whole population well fed, well
clad, well educated--in a word, well brought-up--is, after all, only an amiable dream. Is it
true that humanity is producing all that it can produce at the present time, and managing everything
about as well as it can be managed; that, as a matter of fact, there isn't enough of food and
care to go round, and hence the unavoidable anxiety in the life of every one (except in the
case of a small minority of exceptionally secure people), and the absolute wretchedness of
vast myriads of the poorer sort?

The Socialist says, No! He asserts that our economic system is as chaotic and wasteful as our
system of rearing children--is only another aspect of the same planlessness--that it does its
work with a needless excess of friction, that it might be far simpler and almost infinitely
more productive than it is.

Let us detach ourselves a little from our everyday habits of thinking in these matters; let
us cease to take customary things for granted, and let us try and consider how our economic
arrangements would strike a disinterested intelligence that looked at them freshly for the
first time. Let us take some matter of primary economic importance, such as the housing of
the population, and do our best to criticize it in this spirit of personal aloofness.

In order to do that, let us try to detach ourselves a little from our own personal interest
in these affairs. Imagine a mind ignorant of our history and traditions, coming from some other
sphere, from some world more civilized, from some other planet perhaps, to this earth. Would
our system of housing strike it as the very wisest and most practical possible, would it really
seem to be the attainable maximum of outcome for human exertion, or would it seem confused,
disorderly, wasteful and bad? The Socialist holds that the latter would certainly be the verdict
of such an impartial examination.

What would our visitor find in such a country as England, for example? He would find a few
thousand people housed with conspicuous comfort and sumptuousness, in large, airy and often
extremely beautiful homes equipped with every convenience--except such as economize labour--and
waited on by many thousands of attendants. He would find next, several hundreds of thousands
in houses reasonably well built, but for the most part ill designed and unpleasant to the eye,
houses passably sanitary and convenient, fitted with bathrooms, with properly equipped kitchens,
usually with a certain space of air and garden about them. And the rest of our millions he
would find crowded into houses evidently too small for a decent life, and often dreadfully
dirty and insanitary, without proper space or appliances to cook properly, wash properly or
indeed perform any of the fundamental operations of a civilized life tolerably well--without,
indeed, even the privacy needed for common decency. In the towns he would find most of the
houses occupied by people for whose needs they were obviously not designed, and in many cases
extraordinarily crowded, ramshackle and unclean; in the country he would be amazed to find
still denser congestion, sometimes a dozen people in one miserable, tumble-down, outwardly
picturesque and inwardly abominable two-roomed cottage, people living up against pigsties and
drawing water from wells they could not help but contaminate. Think of how the intimate glimpses
from the railway train one gets into people's homes upon the outskirts of any of our large
towns would impress him. And being, as we assume, clear minded and able to trace cause and
effect, he would see all this disorder working out in mortality, disease, misery and intellectual
and moral failure.

All this would strike our visitor as a very remarkable state of affairs for reasonable creatures
to endure, and probably he would not understand at first that millions of people were content
to regard all this disorder as the permanent lot of humanity. He would assume that this must
be a temporary state of affairs due to some causes unknown to him, some great migration, for
example. He would suppose we were all busy putting things right. He would see on the one hand
unemployed labour and unemployed material; on the other, great areas of suitable land and the
crying need for more and better homes than the people had, and it would seem the most natural
thing in the world that the directing intelligence of the community should set the unemployed
people to work with the unemployed material upon the land to house the whole population fairly
and well. There exists all that is needed to house the whole population admirably, the building
material, the room, the unoccupied hands. Why is it not being done?

Our answer would be, of course, that he did not understand our difficulties; the land was not
ours to do as we liked with, it did not belong to the community but to certain persons, the
Owners, who either refused to let us build upon it or buy it or have anything to do with it,
or demanded money we could not produce for it; that equally the material was not ours, but
belonged to certain other Owners, and that, thirdly, the community had insufficient money or
credit to pay the wages and maintenance and equipment of the workers who starved and degenerated
in our streets--for that money, too, was privately owned.

This would puzzle our visitor considerably.

"Why do you have Owners?" he would ask.

We might find that difficult to answer.

"But why do you let the land be owned?" he would go on. "You don't let people own the air.
And these bricks and timber you mustn't touch, the mortar you need and the gold you need--they
all came out of the ground--they all belonged to everybody or nobody a little while ago!"

You would say something indistinct about Property.

"But why?"

"Somebody must own the things."

"Well, let the State own the things and use them for the common good. It owns the roads, it
owns the foreshores and the territorial seas--nobody owns the air!"

If you entered upon historical explanations with him, you would soon be in difficulties. You
would find that so recently as the Feudal System--which was still living, so to speak, yesterday--the
King, who stood for the State, held the land as the Realm, and the predecessors of the present
owners held under him merely as the administrative officials who performed all sorts of public
services and had all sorts of privileges thereby. They have dropped the services and stuck
to the land and the privileges; that is all.

"I begin to perceive," our visitor would say as this became clear; "your world is under the
spell of an exaggerated idea, this preposterous idea there must be an individual Owner for
everything in the world. Obviously you can't get on while you are under the spell of that!
So long as you have this private ownership in everything, there's no help for you. You cut
up your land and material in parcels of all sorts and sizes among this multitude of irresponsible
little monarchs; you let all the material you need get distributed among another small swarm
of Owners, and clearly you can only get them to work for public ends in the most roundabout,
tedious and wasteful way. Why should they? They're very well satisfied as they are! But if
the community as a whole insisted that this idea of private Ownership you have in regard to
land and natural things was all nonsense--and it is all nonsense!--just think what you might
not do with it now that you have all the new powers and lights that Science has given you.
You might turn all your towns into garden cities, put an end to overcrowding, abolish smoky
skies----"

"Hush!" I should have to interrupt; "if you talk of the things that are clearly possible in
the world to-day, they will say you are an Utopian dreamer!"

But at least one thing would have become clear, the little swarm of Owners and their claims
standing in the way of any bold collective dealing with housing or any such public concern.
The real work to be done here is to change an idea, that idea of ownership, to so modify it
that it will cease to obstruct the rational development of life; and that is what the Socialist
seeks to do.

§ 2.

Now the argument that the civilized housing of the masses of our population now is impossible
because if you set out to do it you come up against the veto of the private owner at every
stage, can be applied to almost every general public service. Some little while ago I wrote
a tract for the Fabian Society about Boots;[3] and I will not apologize for repeating here
a passage from that. To begin with, this tract pointed out the badness, unhealthiness and discomfort
of people's footwear as one saw it in every poor quarter, and asked why it was that things
were in so disagreeable a state. There was plenty of leather in the world, plenty of labour.

    [3] This Misery of Boots. It is intended as an
        introductory tract explaining the central idea of Socialism
        for propaganda purposes, and it is published by the Fabian
        Society, of 3 Clement's Inn, London, at 3d. That, together
        with my tract Socialism and the Family (A. C. Fifield, 44
        Fleet Street, London, 6d.), gives the whole broad outline
        of the Socialist attitude.

    "Here on the one hand--you can see for yourself in any
    unfashionable part of Great Britain--are people badly,
    uncomfortably, painfully shod in old boots, rotten boots, sham
    boots; and on the other great stretches of land in the world,
    with unlimited possibilities of cattle and leather and great
    numbers of people who, either through wealth or trade
    disorder, are doing no work. And our question is: 'Why cannot
    the latter set to work and make and distribute boots?'

    "Imagine yourself trying to organize something of this kind of
    Free Booting expedition and consider the difficulties you
    would meet with. You would begin by looking for a lot of
    leather. Imagine yourself setting off to South America, for
    example, to get leather; beginning at the very beginning by
    setting to work to kill and flay a herd of cattle. You find at
    once you are interrupted. Along comes your first obstacle in
    the shape of a man who tells you the cattle and the leather
    belong to him. You explain that the leather is wanted for
    people who have no decent boots in England. He says he does
    not care a rap what you want it for; before you may take it
    from him you have to buy him off; it is his private property,
    this leather, and the herd and the land over which the herd
    ranges. You ask him how much he wants for his leather, and he
    tells you frankly, just as much as he can induce you to give.

    "If he chanced to be a person of exceptional sweetness of
    disposition, you might perhaps argue with him. You might point
    out to him that this project of giving people splendid boots
    was a fine one that would put an end to much human misery. He
    might even sympathize with your generous enthusiasm, but you
    would, I think, find him adamantine in his resolve to get just
    as much out of you for his leather as you could with the
    utmost effort pay.

    "Suppose, now, you said to him: 'But how did you come by this
    land and these herds so that you can stand between them and
    the people who have need of them, exacting this profit?' He
    would probably either embark upon a long rigmarole, or, what
    is much more probable, lose his temper and decline to argue.
    Pursuing your doubt as to the rightfulness of his property in
    these things, you might admit he deserved a certain reasonable
    fee for the rough care he had taken of the land and herds. But
    cattle breeders are a rude violent race, and it is doubtful if
    you would get far beyond your proposition of a reasonable fee.
    You would, in fact, have to buy off this owner of the leather
    at a good thumping price--he exacting just as much as he could
    get from you--if you wanted to go on with your project.

    "Well, then you would have to get your leather here, and to do
    that you would have to bring it by railway and ship to this
    country. And here again you would find people without any
    desire or intention of helping your project, standing in your
    course resolved to make every possible penny out of you on
    your way to provide sound boots for every one. You would find
    the railway was private property and had an owner or owners;
    you would find the ship was private property with an owner or
    owners, and that none of these would be satisfied for a moment
    with a mere fee adequate to their services. They too would be
    resolved to make every penny of profit out of you. If you made
    inquiries about the matter, you would probably find the real
    owners of railway and ship were companies of shareholders, and
    the profit squeezed out of your poor people's boots at this
    stage went to fill the pockets of old ladies, at Torquay,
    spendthrifts in Paris, well-booted gentlemen in London clubs,
    all sorts of glossy people....

    "Well, you get the leather to England at last; and now you
    want to make it into boots. You take it to a centre of
    population, invite workers to come to you, erect sheds and
    machinery upon a vacant piece of ground, and start off in a
    sort of fury of generous industry, boot-making.... Do you?
    There comes along an owner for that vacant piece of ground,
    declares it is his property, demands an enormous sum for rent.
    And your workers all round you, you find, cannot get house
    room until they too have paid rent--every inch of the country
    is somebody's property, and a man may not shut his eyes for an
    hour without the consent of some owner or other. And the food
    your shoe-makers eat, the clothes they wear, have all paid
    tribute and profit to land-owners, cart-owners, house-owners,
    endless tribute over and above the fair pay for work that has
    been done upon them....

