The Communist Manifesto is the first declaration of an International Workingmen's Party. Its
fine peroration is a call to the workers to transcend the petty divisions of nationalism and
sectarianism: "The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to
win. Workingmen of all countries, unite!" These concluding phrases of the Manifesto have become
the shibboleths of millions. They are repeated with fervor by the disinherited workers of all
the lands. Even in China, lately so rudely awakened from the slumbering peace of the centuries,
they are voiced by an ever increasing army of voices. No sentences ever coined in the mint
of human speech have held such magic power over such large numbers of men and women of so many
diverse races and creeds. As a literary production, the Manifesto bears the unmistakable stamp
of genius.

But it is not as literature that we are to consider the historic document. Its importance for
us lies, not in its form, but in its fundamental principle. This is the materialistic, or economic,
conception of history which distinguishes scientific Socialism from all the Utopian Socialisms
which preceded it. Socialism is henceforth a theory of social evolution, not a scheme of world-building;
a spirit, not a thing. Thus, twelve years before the appearance of "The Origin of Species,"
nearly twenty years after the death of Lamarck, the authors of the Communist Manifesto formulated
a great theory of social evolution as the basis of the mightiest proletarian movement in history.
Socialism had become a science instead of a dream.

IV

Naturally, in view of its historic rôle, the joint authorship of the Manifesto has been much
discussed. What was the respective share of each of its creators? What did Marx contribute,
and what Engels? It may be, as Liebknecht says, an idle question, but it is a perfectly natural
one. The pamphlet itself does not assist us. There are no internal signs pointing now to the
hand of the one, now to the hand of the other. We may hazard a guess that most of the programme
of ameliorative measures was the work of Engels, and perhaps the final section. It was the
work of Engels throughout his life to deal with present social and political problems in the
light of the fundamental theories to the systematization and elucidation of which Marx was devoted.

Beyond this mere conjecture, we have the word of Engels with regard to the basal principle
which he has summarized in the passage already quoted. "The Manifesto being our joint production,"
he says, "I consider myself bound to state that the fundamental proposition which forms its
nucleus belongs to Marx.... This proposition, which, in my opinion, is destined to do for history
what Darwin's theory has done for biology, we, both of us, had been gradually approaching for
some years before 1845. How far I had progressed toward it is best shown by my 'Condition of
the Working Class in England.'[57] But when I again met Marx at Brussels, in spring, 1845,
he had it ready worked out, and put it before me in terms almost as clear as those in which
I have stated it here."[58]

Engels has lifted the veil thus far, but the rest is hidden. Perhaps it is well that it should
be; well that no man should be able to say which passages came from the mind of Marx and which
from the mind of Engels. In life they were inseparable, and so they must be in the Valhalla
of history. The greatest political pamphlet of all time must forever bear, with equal honor,
the names of both. Their noble friendship unites them even beyond the tomb.

     "Twin Titans! Whom defeat ne'er bowed,
     Scarce breathing from the fray,
     Again they sound the war cry loud,
     Again is riven Labor's shroud,
     And life breathed in the clay.
     Their work? Look round--see Freedom proud
     And confident to-day."[59]

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Cf. Social Democracy Red Book, edited by Frederic Heath (1900), page 79.

[43] History of Socialism in the United States, by Morris Hillquit, pages 161-162.

[44] E. Belfort Bax, article on Friederich Engels, in Justice (London), No. 606, Vol. XII,
August 24, 1895.

[45] Disclosures about the Communists' Process, Herr Vogt, etc.

[46] Cf. G. Adler, Die Grundlagen der Karl Marx'schen Kritik der bestehenden Volkswirthschaft
(1887), page 226.

[47] Karl Marx: Biographical Memoirs, by Wilhelm Liebknecht, page 14.

[48] Idem, page 164.

[49] Cf. F. Mehring's Aus dem literarischen Nachlass von Karl Marx, Friederich Engels, und
Ferdinand Lassalle, 1902; the Neue Beitrage zur Biographie von Karl Marx und Friederich Engels,
in Die Neue Zeit, 1907, and Mehring's Geschichte der deutschen Sozialdemokratie, 1903.

[50] Memoirs of Marx, by Wilhelm Liebknecht, page 164.

[51] Karl Kautsky, article on F. Engels, Austrian Labor Almanac, 1887.

[53] Cf. Reminiscences of Karl Marx, by W. Harrison Riley, in The Comrade, Vol. III, No. 1,
pages 5-6.

[54] Marx opposed the "Alliance de la Démocratic Socialiste," formed by Bakunin, with its headquarters
at Geneva, almost as vigorously for its atheistic plank as for its denial of political methods.
The first plank in the programme of the "Alliance" was as follows:--

"The Alliance declares itself Atheist; it demands the abolition of all worship, the substitution
of science for faith, and of human justice for Divine justice; the abolition of marriage, so
far as it is a political, religious, juridical, or civil institution."

This programme is frequently quoted against the Socialist propaganda,--as, for example, by
George Brooks, in God's England or the Devil's?--in spite of the fact that the "Alliance" was
an Anarchist organization, bitterly opposed by Marx, and, in turn, bitterly opposing him.

In this connection, it may be well to call attention to an alleged "quotation from Marx" which
is frequently used by the opponents of Socialism. It appears in the work of Brooks, quoted
above, and in Professor Peabody's Jesus Christ and the Social Question (1907), page 16. Used
in a public discussion by a New York labor union official, in April, 1908, it was widely discussed
by the press, and, according to that same press, drew from the President of the United States
enthusiastic praise of the labor-union official in question. The passage reads: "The idea of
God must be destroyed. It is the keystone of a perverted civilization. The true root of liberty,
of equality, of culture, is Atheism. Nothing must restrain the spontaneity of the human mind."
Had the opponents of Socialism been familiar with the teachings of Marx, they would have known
that he could not have said anything like this, that it is absolutely at variance with all
his teaching. The man who formulated the materialist conception of history could not by any
possibility utter such balderdash. The fact is, the quotation is not from Karl Marx at all,
but from a very different writer, an Anarchist, Wilhelm Marr, who was a most bitter opponent
of Socialism. As given, the quotation is a free translation of a passage contained in Marr's
Das junge Deutschland in der Schweiz, pages 131-134. Marr's programme, as given in the Report
of the Royal Commission on Labor (Vol. V, Germany), was the abolition of Church, State, property,
and marriage, with the one positive tenet of "a bloody and fearful revenge upon the rich and
powerful."

[55] See F. Engels, Socialism, Utopian and Scientific, page 16 (London edition, 1892).

[56] F. Engels, Introduction to the Communist Manifesto (English translation, 1888). The italics
are mine. J. S.

[57] F. Engels, The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844. See, for instance, pages
79, 80, 82, etc.

[58] Introduction to the Communist Manifesto (English edition, 1888).

[59] From Friederich Engels, a poem by "J. L." (John Leslie), in Justice (London), August 17, 1895.

CHAPTER IV

THE MATERIALISTIC CONCEPTION OF HISTORY

I

Socialism, then, in the modern, scientific sense, is a theory of social evolution. Its hopes
for the future rest, not upon the genius of some Utopia-builder, but upon the inherent forces
of historical development. The Socialist state will never be realized except as the result
of economic necessity, the culmination of successive epochs of industrial evolution. Thus the
existing social system appears to the Socialist of to-day, not as it appeared to the Utopians
and as it still must appear to mere ideologist reformers, as a triumph of ignorance or wickedness,
the reign of false ideas, but as the result of an age-long evolutionary process, determined,
not wholly indeed, but mainly, by certain methods of producing the necessities of life in the
first place, and secondly, of effecting their exchange.

Not, let it be understood, that Socialism has become a mere mechanical theory of economic fatalism.
The historical development, the social evolution, upon the laws of which the theories of Socialism
are based, is a human process, involving all the complex feelings, emotions, aspirations, hopes,
and fears common to man. To ignore this fundamental fact, as they must who interpret the Marx-Engels
theory of history as a doctrine of economic fatalism, is to miss the profoundest significance
of the theory. While it is true that the scientific spirit destroys the idea of romantic, magic
transformations of the social system and the belief that the world may be re-created at will,
rebuilt upon the plans of some Utopian architect, it still, as we shall see, leaves room for
the human factor. Otherwise, indeed, it would only be a new kind of Utopianism. They who accept
the theory that the production of the material necessities of life is the main impelling force,
the geist, of human evolution, may rightly protest against social injustice and wrong just
as vehemently as any of the ideologists, and aspire just as fervently toward a nobler and better
state. The Materialistic Conception of History does not involve the fatalist resignation summed
up in the phrase, "Whatever is, is natural, and, therefore, right." It does not involve belief
in man's helplessness to change conditions.

II

The idea of social evolution is admirably expressed in the fine phrase of Leibnitz, "The present
is the child of the past, but it is the parent of the future."[60] The great seventeenth-century
philosopher was not the first to postulate and apply to society that doctrine of flux, of continuity
and unity, which we call evolution. In all ages of which record has been preserved to us, it
has been sporadically, and more or less vaguely, expressed. Even savages seem to have dimly
perceived it. The saying of the Bechuana chief, recorded by the missionary, Casalis, was probably,
judging by its epigrammatic character, a proverb of his people. "One event is always the son
of another," he said--a saying strikingly like that of Leibnitz.

Since the work of Lyell, Darwin, Wallace, Spencer, Huxley, Youmans, and their numerous followers--a
brilliant school embracing the foremost historians and sociologists of Europe and America--the
idea of evolution as a universal law has made rapid and certain progress. Everything changes;
nothing is immutable or eternal. Whatever is, whether in geology, astronomy, biology, or sociology,
is the result of numberless, inevitable, related changes. Only the law of change is changeless.
The present is a phase only of a great transition process from what was, through what is, to
what will be.

The Marx-Engels theory is an exploration of the laws governing this process of evolution in
the domain of human relations: an attempt to provide a key to the hitherto mysterious succession
of changes in the political, juridical, and social relations and institutions of mankind. Whence,
for instance, arose the institution of chattel slavery, so repugnant to our modern ideas of
right and wrong, and how shall we explain its defense and justification in the name of religion
and morality? How account for the fact that what Yesterday regarded as righteous, To-day condemns
as wrong; that what at one period of the world's history is regarded as perfectly natural and
right--the practice of polygamy, for example--becomes abhorrent at another period; or that
what is regarded with horror and disgust in one part of the world is sanctioned by the ethical
codes, and freely practiced elsewhere? Ferri gives two examples of this kind: the cannibalism
of Central African tribes, and the killing of parents, as a religious duty, in Sumatra.[61]
To reply "custom" is to beg the whole question, for customs do not exist without reason, however
difficult it may be to discern the reason for any particular custom. To reply that these things
are mysteries, as the old theologians did when the doctrine of the Trinity was questioned,
is to leave the question unanswered and to challenge doubt and investigation. The human mind
abhors a mystery as nature abhors a vacuum. Despite Spencer, the human mind has never admitted
the existence of the Unknowable. To explore the Unknown is man's universal impulse; and with
each fresh discovery the Unknown is narrowed by the expansion of the Known.

The theory that ideas determine progress, that, in the words of Professor Richard T. Ely, "all
that is significant in human history may be traced back to ideas,"[62] is only true in the
sense that a half truth is true. It is true, nothing but the truth, but it is less than the
whole truth. Truly all that is significant in human history may be traced back to ideas, but
in like manner the ideas themselves can be traced back to material sources. For ideas have
histories, too, and the causation of an idea must be understood before the idea itself can
serve fully to explain anything. We must go back of the idea to the causes which gave it birth
if we would interpret anything by it. We may trace the American Revolution, for example, back
to the revolutionary ideas of the colonists, but that will not materially assist us to understand
the Revolution. For that, it is necessary to trace the ideas themselves to their source, the
economic discontent of an exploited people. This is the spirit which illumines the works of
historians like Green, McMaster, Morse Stephens, and others of the modern school, who emphasize
social forces rather than individual facts, and find the geist of history in social experiences
and institutions.

What has been called the "Great Man theory," the theory according to which Luther created the
Protestant Reformation, to quote only one example, and which ignored the great economic changes
consequent upon the break-up of feudalism and the rise of a new industrial order, long dominated
our histories. According to this theory, an idea, developed in the mind of Luther, independent
of external circumstances, changed the political and social life of Europe. Had there been
no Luther, there would have been no Reformation; or had Luther died before giving his idea
to the world, the Reformation would have been averted. The student who seeks in the bulk of
the histories written prior to, say, 1870, what he has a legitimate reason for seeking, namely,
a picture of the actual life of the people at any period, will be sadly disappointed. He will
find records of wars and treaties of peace, royal genealogies and gossip, wildernesses of names
and dates. But he will not find such careful accounts of the jurisprudence of the period, nor
any hint of the economical conditions of its development. He will find splendid accounts of
court life, with its ceremonials, scandals, intrigues, and follies; but no such pictures of
the lives of the people, their social conditions, and the methods of labor and commerce which
obtained. He will be unable to visualize the life of the period. In other words, the histories
lack realism; they are unreal, and, therefore, deceptive. The new spirit, in the development
of which the materialist conception of Marx and Engels has been an important creative influence,
is concerned less with the chronicle of notable events and dates than with their underlying
causes and the manner of life of the people. Had it no other bearing, the Marx-Engels theory,
considered solely as a contribution to the science of history, would have been one of the greatest
intellectual achievements of the nineteenth century. By emphasizing the importance of the economic
factors in social evolution, it has done much for economics and more for history.[63]

III

While the Materialistic Conception of History bears the names of Marx and Engels, as the theory
of organic evolution bears the names of Darwin and Wallace, it is not claimed that the idea
had never before been expressed. Just as thousands of years before Darwin and Wallace the theory
which bears their names had been dimly perceived, so the idea that economic conditions dominate
historical developments had its foreshadowings. The famous dictum of Aristotle, that only by
the introduction of machines would the abolition of slavery ever be made possible, is a conspicuous
example of many anticipations of the theory. It is true that "In dealing with speculations
so remote, we have to guard against reading modern meanings into writings produced in ages
whose limitations of knowledge were serious, whose temper and standpoint are wholly alien to
our own,"[64] but the Aristotelian saying admits of no other interpretation. It is clearly
a recognition of the fact that the supreme politico-social institution of the time depended
upon hand labor.

In later times, the idea of a direct connection between economic conditions and legal and political
institutions reappears in the works of various writers. Professor Seligman[65] quotes from
Harrington's "Oceana" the argument that the prevailing form of government depends upon the
conditions of land tenure, and the extent of its monopolization. Saint-Simon, too, as already
stated, taught that political institutions depend upon economic conditions. But it is to Marx
and Engels that we owe the first formulation into a definite theory of what had hitherto been
but a suggestion, and the beginnings of a literature, now of considerable proportions, dealing
with history from its standpoint. No more need be said concerning the "originality" of the theory.

A word as to the designation of the theory. Its authors gave it the name "historical materialism,"
and it has been urged that the name is, for many reasons, unfortunately chosen. Two of the
leading exponents of the theory, Professor Seligman and Mr. Ghent, the former an opponent,
the latter an advocate of Socialism, have expressed this conviction in very definite terms.
The last-named writer bases his objection to the name on the ground that it is repellent to
many persons who associate the word materialism with the philosophy "that matter is the only
substance, and that matter and its motions constitute the universe."[66] That is an old objection,
and undoubtedly contains much truth. It is interesting in connection therewith to read the
sarcastic comment of Engels upon it in the introduction to his "Socialism, Utopian and Scientific."
The objection of Professor Seligman is based upon another ground entirely. He impugns its accuracy.
"The theory which ascribes all changes in society to the influence of climate, or to the character
of the fauna and flora, is materialistic," he says, "and yet has little in common with the
doctrine here discussed. The doctrine we have to deal with is not only materialistic, but also
economic in character; and the better phrase is ... the 'economic interpretation' of history."[67]
For this reason he discards the name given to the theory by its authors and adopts the luminous
phrase of Thorold Rogers, without credit to that writer.

By French and Italian writers the term "economic determinism" has long been used, and it has
been adopted to some extent in this country by Socialist writers. But this term, as Professor
Seligman points out, is objectionable, because it exaggerates the theory, and gives it, by
implication, a fatalistic character, conveying the idea that economic influence is the sole
determining factor--a view which its authors specifically repudiated. While the reasoning of
Professor Seligman in the argument quoted against the name "historical materialism" is neither
very profound nor conclusive, since climate and fauna and flora are included in the term "economic"
as clearly as in the term "materialistic," much may be said in favor of his choice of the term
he borrows from Thorold Rogers, and it is used by many Socialist writers in preference to that
used by Marx and Engels.

Many persons have doubtless been deceived into believing that the theory involves the denial
of all influence to idealistic or spiritual factors, and the assumption that economic forces
alone determine the course of historical development. Much of the criticism of the theory,
especially by the Germans, rests upon that assumption. The theory is attacked, also, as being
sordid and brutal upon the same false assumption that it implies that men are governed solely
by their economic interests, that individual conduct is never inspired by anything higher than
the economic interest of the individual. These are misconceptions of the theory, due, no doubt,
to the overemphasis placed upon it by its authors--a common experience of new doctrines--and,
above all, the exaggerations of too zealous, unrestrained disciples. There is a wise saying
of Schiller's which suggests the spirit in which these exaggerations of a great truth--exaggerations
by which it becomes falsehood--should be regarded: "Rarely do we reach truth, except through
extremes--we must have foolishness ... even to exhaustion, before we arrive at the beautiful
goal of calm wisdom."[68] When it is contended that the "Civil War was at bottom a struggle
between two economic principles,"[69] we have the presentation of an important truth, the key
to the proper understanding of a great historical event. But when that important fact is exaggerated
and torn from its legitimate place to suit the propaganda of a theory, and we are asked to
believe that Garrison, Lovejoy, and other abolitionists were inspired solely by economic motives,
that the urge and passion of human freedom did not enter into their souls, we are forced to
reject it. But let it be clearly understood that it forms no part of the theory, that it is
even expressly denied in the very terms in which Marx and Engels formulated the theory, and
that its authors repudiated such perversions of it.

In no respect has the theory been more grossly exaggerated and misrepresented than in its application
to religion. True philosopher that he was, Marx realized the absurdity of attempting "to abstract
religious sentiment from the course of history, to place it by itself."[70] He recognized that
all religion is, fundamentally, man's effort to put himself into harmonious relation with,
and to discover an interpretation of, the forces of the universe. The more incomprehensible
those forces, the greater man's need of an explanation of them. He could not fail to see that
the religion of a people always bears a marked relation to their mental development and their
special environment. He knew that at various stages the Yahve of the Hebrews represented very
different conceptions, answering to changes in the social and political conditions of the people.
To the primitive Israelitish tribes, Yahve was, as Professor Rauschenbusch remarks,[71] a tribal
god, fortunately stronger than the gods of the neighboring tribes, but not fundamentally different
from them, and the way to win his favor was to sacrifice abundantly. Later, with the development
of a national spirit, the religious ideal became a theocracy, and Yahve became a King and Supreme
Lord. In times of oppression and war Yahve was a God of War, but under other conditions he
was a God of Peace. At every step the conception of Yahve bears a very definite relation to
the material life.[72]

Marx knew that primitive religions have often a celestial pantheon fashioned after the existing
social order, kings being gods, aristocrats being demigods, and common mortals occupying a
celestial rank equal to their terrestrial one. The celestial hierarchy of the Chinese, for
example, is an exact reproduction of the earthly hierarchy, and all the privileges of rank
are observed celestially as on earth. So in India we find the religions reproducing in their
concepts of heaven the degrees and divisions of the various castes,[73] while our own American
Indian conceived of a celestial hunting ground, with abundant reward of game, as his Paradise.
"The religious world is but the reflex of the real world," said Marx,[74] and the phrase has
been used, both by disciples and critics, as an attack upon religion itself; as showing that
the Marxian philosophy excludes the possibility of religious belief. Obviously, however, the
passage will not bear such an interpretation. To say that "the religious world is but the reflex
of the real world" is by no means to deny that men have been benefited by seeking an interpretation
of the forces of the universe, or to assert that the quest for such an interpretation is incompatible
with rational conduct. In his scorn for Bakunin's "Alliance" programme with its dogmatic atheism[75]
Marx was perfectly consistent. The passage quoted simply lays down, in bare outline, a principle
which, if well founded, enables us to study comparative religion from a new viewpoint.

It is not a denial of religion, then, which the famous utterance of Marx involves, but a recognition
of the fact that, even as all religions may be traced to the same fundamental instinct in mankind,
so the different forms which the religious conception assumes are, or may be, reflexes of the
material life of those making them. Thus man makes religion for himself under the urge of his
deepest instincts. The application of the theory to religion is analogous to its application
to historical events. To say that a given religion assumes the form it does as an unconscious
reflex of the environment in which it is produced, is no more a denial of that religion than
to say that the Reformation arose out of economic and social conditions, and not out of an
idea in Luther's mind, is a denial of the fact that there was a Reformation, or that the Reformation
benefited the people. The value of the theory to the study of religions and religious movements
is not less than to the study of history. Does anybody pretend that we can understand Christianity
without taking into account the Roman Empire; or that we can understand Catholicism without
knowing something of the economic life of medieval Europe; or Methodism without knowing the
social condition of England in Wesley's day?[76]

