Alice slipped down again to her companions below, but her daughter remained in the chamber.

It was a desolate room, as desolate as poverty and drink could make it; and now it looked doubly
desolate, as the scorched figure of the old collier lay motionless on the low, comfortless,
curtainless bed.  A dip in an old wine bottle standing on a box threw a gloomy light on the
disfigured features, which looked almost unearthly in the clear moonlight which struggled with
the miserable twinkling of the feeble candle, and fell just across the bed.  Betty sat gazing
at her father, full of anxious and sorrowful thoughts.  How solemn the contrast between the
stillness of that sick-chamber and the Babel of eager tongues in the house below!  She felt
unspeakably wretched, and yet there was a sense of rebuke in her conscience, for she knew how
great a mercy it was that her father's life was spared.  She sighed deeply, and then, suddenly
rising quietly, she lifted the lid of the box, and brought out a well- worn Bible.  She was
not much of a scholar, but she could make out a verse or a passage in the Holy Book with a
little pains.  She had put her mark against favourite passages, and now she turned to some
of these.

"`Come, unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'"

She paused on each word, uttering it half aloud, as she travelled carefully from one line to
another.

"Ah, that's what I want," she said to herself, but in an audible whisper.  "It means, Come
to Jesus, I know."

She stopped, and put the book aside, resting her head on her hands.  She was startled by hearing
her father say,--

"It's very good.  Read on, Betty, my lass."

"Oh, fayther, I didn't think you could hear me!  What shall I read?"

"Read about some poor sinner like me, that got his sins pardoned by Jesus Christ."

"I can't justly say where it is, fayther; but I know there's one place where it tells of a
sinful man as had his sins pardoned by Jesus Christ, even when he hung upon the cross.  I know
well it was when the Lord were a-dying.

"Do you think, Betty," asked Johnson very earnestly, "I should go to be with Jesus, if I were
to die now?  Oh, if this pain's so bad, what must hell-fire be?"

"Fayther," replied his daughter quietly, "the Lord's spared you for summat.  I prayed him to
spare you, and he'll not cast you off now as he's heard my prayer.  If you take him at his
word, he'll not tell you as you're mistaken--he'll not say he hasn't pardon in his heart for you."

"I believe it, I will believe it," said the poor man, the tears running down his cheeks.  "O
God, be merciful to me a sinner, for Jesus Christ's sake,"--there was a pause; then, after
a while, he added, "I think as he'll hear me, Betty."

"I am sure he will," she answered; "but you must lie still, fayther, or maybe you'll do yourself
harm.  The doctor'll be here just now."

It was a night of darkness and terror, yet even on that sad night there was glorious light
which man's eye could not see, for there was joy in the presence of the angels of God over
at least one penitent sinner in Langhurst.  But how full of gloom to most!  Many had been cut
off in the midst of their sins, and those who mourned their loss sorrowed as those who have
no hope.  Two of poor Johnson's persecutors were suddenly snatched away in their impenitence
and hardness of heart, a third was crippled for life.  Yet the drink kept firm hold of its
victims--the very night of the explosion the "George" gathered a golden harvest. Death in its
ghastliest forms only seemed to whet the thirst for the drink.  At one house, while the blackened
corpse lay in its clothes on the outside of the bed, preparatory to its being laid out, the
dead man's widow and her female helpers sat refreshing themselves, and driving away care, with
large potations of tea, made palatable with rum, and that so near the corpse that any one of
the party could have touched it without rising from her seat.

The shock caused by the explosion was a terrible one, but its stunning effects passed away,
only to leave the most who felt that shock harder and more indifferent than ever.  Yet in one
house that awful blow was found to be a messenger of mercy.  Thomas Johnson rose from his bed
of pain a changed and penitent man.  Oh, what a happy day it was to Ned Brierley and his little
band of stanch Christian abstainers, when Thomas came forward, as he soon did, and manfully
signed the pledge, as resolved henceforth to be, with God's help, consistent and uncompromising
in his entire renunciation of all intoxicating drinks!

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

MIDNIGHT DARKNESS.

When Thomas Johnson signed the pledge, a storm of persecution broke upon him which would have
rather staggered an ordinary man; but, as we have said before, Thomas was no ordinary character,
but one of those men who are born to do good service under whatever banner they may range themselves.
He had long served in Satan's army, and had worked well for him.  But now he had chosen another
Captain, even the Lord Jesus Christ himself, and he was prepared to throw all the energy and
decision of his character into his work for his new and heavenly Master, and to endure hardness
as a good soldier of the Captain of his salvation.  For he had need indeed to count the cost.
He might have done anything else he pleased, except give up the drink and turn real Christian,
and no one would have quarrelled with him.  He might have turned his wife and daughter out
to starve in the streets, and his old boon-companions would have forgotten all about it over
a pot of beer.  But to sign the pledge?--this was indeed unpardonable.  And why?  Because the
drunkard cannot afford to let a fellow-victim escape: he has himself lost peace, hope, character,
home, happiness, and is drinking his soul into hell, and every fellow-drunkard reformed and
removed from his side makes his conscience more bare, and exposed to the glare of that eternal
wrath which he tries to shut out from his consciousness, and partly succeeds, as he gathers
about him those like-minded with himself.  So every petty insult and annoyance was heaped upon
Johnson by his former companions: they ridiculed his principles, they questioned his sincerity,
they scoffed at the idea of his continuing firm, they attributed all sorts of base motives
to him.  He was often sorely provoked, but he acted upon the advice of that holy man who tells
us that, when people throw mud at us, our wisdom is to leave it to dry, when it will fall off
of itself, and not to smear our clothes by trying of ourselves to wipe it off.  He had hearty
helpers in Ned Brierley and his family; Ned himself being a special support, for the persecutors
were all afraid of him.  But his chief earthly comforter was Betty.  Oh, how she rejoiced in
her father's conversion and in his signing the pledge!  Oh, if Samuel would only write, how
happy she should be!  She would write back and tell him of the great and blessed change wrought
by grace in their father, and maybe he would come back again to them when he heard it.  But
he came not, he wrote not; and this was the bitterest sorrow to both Betty and her father.
Johnson knew that his own sin had driven his son away, and he tried therefore to take the trial
patiently, as from the hand of a Father who was chastening him in love.  Betty longed for her
brother's return, or at least to hear from him, with a sickening intensity, which grew day
by day; for though she was really convinced that he had not destroyed himself, yet dreadful
misgivings would cross her mind from time to time.  The knife, with its discoloured blade,
was still in her possession, and the mystery about it remained entirely unexplained.  But she
too prayed for patience, and God gave it to her; for hers was the simple prayer of a loving,
trusting, and believing heart.  Perhaps, however, the sorest trial to both Johnson and his
daughter was the conduct of Alice.  She was bitterly incensed at her husband's signing the
pledge.  No foul language was too bad for him; and as for Betty, she could hardly give her
a civil word.  They both, however, bore it patiently.  At one time she would be furious, at
another moodily silent and sulky for days.  But what made the miserable woman most outrageous
was the fact that her husband would not trust her with any money, but put his wages into the
hands of Betty, to purchase what was wanted for the family, and to pay off old scores.  She
was therefore at her wits' end how to get the drink, for the drink she would have.  Johnson,
with his characteristic decision, had gone round to the different publicans in Langhurst and
the neighbourhood, taking Ned Brierley with him as witness, and had plainly given them to understand
that he would pay for no more drink on his wife's account.  He then came home and told her
what he had done, when he was alone with her and Betty.  Poor miserable woman!  She became
perfectly livid with passion, and was about to pour out her rage in a torrent of furious abuse,
when Johnson rose from his seat, and looking her steadily in the face, said in a moderately
loud and very determined voice,--

"Alice, sit you down and hearken to me."

There was something in his manner which forced her to obey.  She dropped into a chair by the
fire, and burst into a hurricane of tears.  He let her spend herself, and then, himself sitting
down, he said,--

"Alice, you've known me long enough to be sure that I'm not the sort of man to be turned from
my purpose.  You and I have lived together many years now, and all on 'em's been spent in the
service of the devil.  I'm not laying the blame more on you nor on myself.  I've been the worse,
it may be, of the two.  But I can't go on as I have done.  The Lord has been very merciful
to me, or I shouldn't be here now.  I've served the old lad too long by the half, and I mean
now to serve a better Mayster, and to serve him gradely too, if he'll only help me--and our
Betty says she's sure he will, for the Book says so.  Now, if I'm to be a gradely servant of
the Lord Jesus Christ, I must be an honest man--I must pay my way if I can; but I can't pay
at all if my brass is to go for the drink--and you know, Alice, you can't deny it, that you'd
spend the brass in drink if I gave it yourself.  But, more nor that, if I'd as much brass as'd
fill the coal-pit, shaft and all, I'd not give my consent to any on it's going for the drink.
I know that you can do without the drink if you've a mind.  I know you'll be all the better
by being without it.  I know, and you know yourself, that it's swallowed up the clothes from
your own back, and starved and beggared us all.  If you'll give it up, and live without it
like a Christian woman should, you'll never have an afterthought; and as soon as I see that
you can be trusted with the brass, I'll give it you again with all my heart.  Come, Alice,
there's a good wench; you mustn't think me hard.  I've been a hard husband, and fayther too,
for years, but I must be different now; and I'll try and do my duty by you all, and folks may
just say what they please."

Alice did not reply a word; her passion had cooled, and she sat rocking herself backwards and
forwards, with her apron to her eyes, sobbing bitterly.  She knew her husband too well to think
of deliberately attempting to make him change his purpose, yet she was equally resolved that
the drink she would and must have.  At last she said, with many tears,--

"Well, Thomas, you must please yourself.  I know well, to my cost, that I might as well try
and turn the hills wrong side out as turn you from what you've set your heart on.  But you
know all the while that I can't do without my little drop of drink.  Well, it makes no odds
whether I starve to death or die for want of the drink--there'll be short work with me one
road or the other; and then you and Betty can fill up my place with some of them teetottal
chaps you're both so fond on, when I'm in the ground."

Johnson made no reply, but shortly after left for his work, as he was in the night-shift that week.

Alice sat for a long time turning over in her mind what steps to take in order to get the means
for satisfying her miserable appetite.  She had no money; she knew that none of the publicans
would trust her any longer; and as for pawning any articles, she had pawned already everything
that she dared lay her hands on.  Her only hope now was in Betty; she would speak her fair,
and see if she could not so work upon her feelings as to induce her to give her part of her
own wages.

"Betty," she said, softly and sadly, "you're all the wenches I have; ay, and all the childer
too, for our Sammul's as good as dead and gone, we shall never see him no more--ah, he was
a good lad to his poor mother; he'd never have grudged her the brass to buy a drop of drink.
You'll not do as your father's doing--break your old mother's heart, and let her waste and
die out for want of a drop of drink."

"Mother," replied Betty very quietly, but with a great deal of her father's decision in her
manner, "I can't go against what fayther's made me promise.  I've worked for you ever since
I were a little wench scarce higher nor the table; and I'll work for you and fayther still,
and you shall neither on you want meat nor drink while I've an arm to work with; but I can't
give you the brass yourself 'cos it'll only go into the publican's pocket, and we've nothing
to spare for him."

"You might have plenty to spare if you'd a mind," said her mother, gloomily.

"No, mother; all fayther's brass, and all my brass too, 'll have to go to pay old debts for
many a long week to come."

"Ah, but you might have as much brass as you liked, if you'd only go the right way to work."

"As much brass as I like.  I can't tell what you mean, mother; you must be dreaming, I think."

"I'm not dreaming," said Alice.  "There's Widow Reeves, she's no better wage nor you, and yet
she's always got brass to spare for gin and baccy."

"Widow Reeves! mother--yes, but it's other folks' brass, and not her own."

"Well, but she manages to get the brass anyhow," said her mother coolly.

"I know she does, mother, and she's the talk of the whole village. She's in debt to every shop
for miles round, and never pays nowt to nobody."

"Maybe she don't," said Alice carelessly, "but she's always brass to spare in her pocket, and
so might you."

"I couldn't do it," cried Betty vehemently, "I couldn't do it, mother. It's a sin and a shame
of Widow Reeves--she takes her brass for a bit to the last new shop as turns up, and then runs
up a long score, and leaves without paying."

"Well, that's her concern, not mine," said the other; "I'm not saying as it's just right; you
needn't do as she does--but you're not bound to pay all up at once, you might hold back a little
each now and then, and you'd have summat to spare for your poor old mother."

"But I've promised fayther, and he trusts me."

"Promised fayther!--you need say nowt to your fayther about it--he'll never be none the wiser."

"O mother, mother, how can you talk so, after all as is come and gone! How can you ask me to
cheat my own poor fayther, as is so changed? he's trying gradely to get to heaven, and to bring
you along with him too, and you're wanting to pull us all back.  Mother, mother, how can you
do it?  How can you ask me to go agen fayther when he leaves all to me? You're acting the devil's
part, mother, when you 'tice your own child to do wrong.  Oh, it's cruel, it's cruel, when
you know, if I were to deceive fayther it'd break his heart.  But it's the drink that's been
speaking.  Oh, the cursed drink! that can pluck a mother's heart out of her bosom, and make
her the tempter of her own child!  I must leave you, mother, now.  I durstn't stay.  I might
say summat as I shouldn't, for I am your child still.  But oh, mother, pray God to forgive
you for what you've said to me this night; and may the Lord indeed forgive you, as I pray that
I may have grace to do myself."  So saying, she hastily threw her handkerchief over her head
and left the cottage.

And what were Alice Johnson's thoughts when she was left alone?  She sat still by the fire,
and never moved for a long time.  Darkness, midnight darkness, a horror of darkness, was settling
down on her soul.  She had no false support now from the drink, and so her physical state added
to her utter depression.  Conscience began to speak as it had never spoken before; and then
came pressing on her the horrible craving, which she had no means now of gratifying.  The past
and the future fastened upon her soul like the fiery fangs of two fearful snakes.  She saw
the wasted past--her children neglected; her home desolate, empty, foul, comfortless; her husband
and herself wasting life in the indulgence of their common sin, living without God in the world;--she
saw herself the cause, in part at least, of her son's flight; she remembered how she had ever
set herself against his joining the band of total abstainers;--and now she beheld herself about
the vilest thing on earth--a mother deliberately tempting her daughter to deceive her father,
that herself might gratify her craving for the drink.  Oh, how she loathed herself! oh, what
a horror crept over her soul!  Could she really be so utterly vile? could she really have sunk
so low?  And then came up before her the yet more fearful future: her husband no longer a companion
with her in her sin--she must sin alone; her daughter alienated from her by her own act; and
then the drink, for which she had sold herself body and soul, she must be without it, she must
crave and not be satisfied--the thought was intolerable, it was madness.  But there was a farther
future; there was in the far distance the blackness of darkness for ever, yet rendered visible
by the glare of a coming hell.  Evening thickened round her, but she sat on.  The air all about
her seemed crowded with spirits of evil; her misery became deeper and deeper; she did not,
she could not repent--and what then?

An hour later Betty returned from Ned Brierley's.  Where was Alice? Betty looked for her, but
she was nowhere to be found; she called her, but there was no answer.  She concluded that she
had gone into a neighbour's, and sat down waiting for her till she grew weary: her heart was
softened towards her; she would pray for her, she would try still to win her back from the
bondage of Satan; she was her mother still.  Hour after hour passed, but still her mother did
not come.  Betty took a light, and went up into the chamber to fetch her Bible.  Something
unusual near the door caught her eye--with a scream of terror she darted forward.  Oh, what
a sight! her miserable mother was hanging behind the door from a beam!  Betty's repeated screams
brought in the neighbours; they found the wretched woman quite dead.  She had sinned away her
day of grace; and was gone to give in her account of body, soul, time, talents, utterly wasted,
and of her life taken by her own hands; and all--all under the tyranny of the demon of drink.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

PLOTTING.

When Betty's cries of horror brought the neighbours round her, they found the poor girl lying
insensible by the corpse of her mother, which was still suspended by the beam behind the door.
They cut down the wretched creature, and tried everything to restore her to consciousness;
but life was fled--the day of trial was over.  Johnson returned from the pit, from whence he
was summoned, to find his wife dead, destroyed by her own hand; and Betty utterly prostrate
on her bed with the terrible and agonising shock.

Oh, drink, drink! most heartless of all fiendish destroyers, thou dost kill thy victims with
a smile, plucking away from them every stay and support that keeps them from the pit of destruction;
robbing them of every comfort, while hugging them in an embrace which promises delight, and
yet crushes out the life-blood both of body and soul; making merriment in the eye and on the
tongue, while home, love, character, and peace are melting and vanishing away.  Wretched Alice!
she might have been a happy mother, a happy wife, with her children loving, honouring, and
blessing her; but she had sold herself for the drink, and a life of shame and a death of despair
were her miserable reward.

Poor Johnson's life was now a very weary one.  He had hope indeed to cheer him--a better than
any earthly hope, a hope full of immortality. Still he was but a beginner in the Christian
life, and had hard work to struggle on through the gloom towards the guiding light through
the deep shadows of earth that were thickening around him.  Betty tried to cheer him; but,
poor girl, she needed cheering herself.  Her brother's flight; the uncertainty as to what had
really become of him; the hope deferred of hearing from him which made her heart sick; and
now the dreadful death of her unhappy mother, and that, too, so immediately following on their
last miserable conversation;--all these sorrows combined weighed down her spirit to the very
dust.  She longed to flee away and be at rest; but she could not escape into forgetfulness,
and she would not fly from duty.  So a dark cloud hung over that home, and it was soon to be
darker still.  Ned Brierley was appointed manager of a colliery in Wales, at a place a hundred
miles or more from Langhurst, and a few months after Alice Johnson's death he removed to his
new situation, with all his family.  A night or two before he left he called upon Johnson.

"Well, my lad," he said, taking a seat near the fire, "I reckon you and I mayn't meet again
for many a long day.  But if you're coming our side at any time, we shall be right glad to
see you, and Betty too, and give you a hearty total abstainer's welcome."

"I'm afraid," said Betty, "that fayther nor me's not like to be travelling your road.  I'm
sure I'm glad you're a-going to better yourselves, for you desarve it; but it'll be the worse
for us."

"Ay," said Johnson despondingly; "first one prop's taken away, and then another; and after
a bit the roof'll fall in, and make an end on us."

"Nay, nay, man," said his friend reprovingly, "it's not come to that yet.  You forget the best
of all Friends, the Lord Jesus Christ.  He ever liveth; and hasn't he said, `I will never leave
thee nor forsake thee?'"

"That's true," replied the other; "but I can't always feel it.  He's helped me afore now, and
I know as he'll help me again--but I can't always trust him as I should."

"Ah, but you must trust him," said Brierley earnestly; "you must stick firm to your Saviour.
And you must stick firm to your pledge, Thomas-- promise me that."

"Yes; by God's help, so I will," was the reply; "only I see I shall have hard work.  But it's
no odds, they can't make me break if I'm resolved that I won't."

"No, fayther," said his daughter; "and they can't go the breadth of a thread further nor the
Lord permits."

"That's true, Betty, my lass," said Ned; "so cheer up, Thomas.  I feel sure--I can't tell you
why, but I do feel sure--that the Lord'll bring back your Sammul again.  He'll turn up some
day, take my word for it. So don't lose heart, Thomas; but remember how the blessed Book says,
`Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.'"

"God bless you," said Johnson, squeezing Ned's hand hard; "you're a gradely comforter."

And so they parted.

It was not long, however, before Thomas's patience was tried to the uttermost.  His enemies
let him alone for a short time after his wife's death--for there is a measure of rugged consideration
even among profligates and drunkards.  But a storm had been brewing, and it fell at last when
Ned Brierley had been gone from Langhurst about a month.  A desperate effort was made to get
Johnson back to join his old companions at the "George," and when this utterly failed, every
spiteful thing that malice could suggest and ingenuity effect was practised on the unfortunate
collier, and in a measure upon Betty also.  But, like the wind in the fable, this storm only
made Johnson wrap himself round more firmly in the folds of his own strong resolution, rendered
doubly strong by prayer.  Such a thought as yielding never crossed his mind.  His only anxiety
was how best to bear the cross laid on him.  There were, of course, other abstainers in Langhurst
besides the Brierleys, and these backed him up, so that by degrees his tormentors began to
let him alone, and gave him a space for breathing, but they never ceased to have an eye towards
him for mischief.

The month of October had now come, when one evening, as Johnson and Betty were sitting at tea
after their day's work, there was a knock at the door, and immediately afterwards a respectable-looking
man entered, and asked,--

"Does not Thomas Johnson live here?"

"Yes; he does," was Johnson's reply.

"And I suppose, then, you're Thomas Johnson yourself?" said the stranger.

"I reckon you're not so far wrong," was the answer.

"Ah, well; so it is for sure," broke out Betty.  "Why, you're the teetottal chap as came a-lecturing
when me and our poor Sammul signed the pledge."

"Sit ye down, sit ye down," cried her father; "you're welcome to our house, though it is but
a sorrowful one."

"I think, my friend," said the stranger, "that you are one of us now."

"You may well say now," replied the other, "for when you was here afore, you'd a gone out of
the door a deal quicker nor you came in; but, I bless the Lord, things are changed now."

"Yes, indeed," said the other, "it is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes; though,
indeed, he does work such wonderful things that we've daily cause to bless and praise him.
Well, my friend--for we are friends, I see, in the best of bonds now--I have not long to stay
now, but I just want to ask you one thing.  I should like to have a total abstinence meeting
next month in Langhurst.  Will you say a word for us?  We want some working man who has been
rescued, through God's mercy, from the chains of the drink, to stand up and tell, in a simple,
straightforward way, what he once was, and what God has done for him as a pledged abstainer;
and I judge, from what I hear, that you're just the man we want."

Johnson paused for a while.

"I don't know," he said, shaking his head; "I don't know.  I'm not so sure it'll do at all."

"Oh, fayther," cried Betty, "you must do what the gentleman axes you. It may do good to some
poor creatures, and lead 'em to sign.  It's only a small candle-end as the Lord's given such
as we are, but we must light it, and let it shine."

"Well," said her father, slowly, "maybe I oughtn't to say `No;' and yet you may be sure, if
it gets talked on in the village, it's little peace as I shall have."

"Well, my friend," said the stranger, "of course I don't wish to bring you into trouble.  Still
this is one of the ways in which you may take up a cross nobly for your Saviour, and he'll
give the strength to carry it."

"Say no more," replied Johnson; "if the Lord spares me, they shall hear a gradely tale from me."

