THREE ADDRESSES

TO

GIRLS AT SCHOOL

THREE ADDRESSES

TO

GIRLS AT SCHOOL

BY THE

REV. J. M. WILSON, M.A.

HEAD MASTER OF CLIFTON COLLEGE AND VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE CLIFTON HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS

London

PERCIVAL & CO. KING STREET, COVENT GARDEN 1890

PREFACE.

The following addresses were printed for private circulation among those to whom they were
delivered. But they fell also into other hands; and I have been frequently asked to publish
them. I hesitated, on account of the personal and local allusions; but I have found it impossible
to remove these allusions, and I have therefore reprinted the addresses in their original form.

                                                               J.M.W.

  CLIFTON COLLEGE,

   Sept. 1890.

CONTENTS.

                                          PAGE

I.

EDUCATION                                    1

October 25, 1887.

THE HIGH SCHOOL, CLIFTON.

II.

HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS             21

December, 1889.

THE HIGH SCHOOLS AT BATH AND CLIFTON.

III.

RELIGION                                    53

April 13, 1890.

ST. LEONARD'S SCHOOL, ST. ANDREWS, FIFE.

THREE ADDRESSES

TO

GIRLS AT SCHOOL

I.

EDUCATION.

EDUCATION.[1]

Now that I have given away the certificates it will be expected that I should make a few remarks
on that inexhaustible subject, Education. My remarks will be brief.

I take this opportunity of explaining to our visitors the nature of the Higher Certificate
examination. It is an examination instituted originally to test the efficiency of the highest
forms of our public schools, and to enable boys to pass the earlier University examinations
while still at school. The subjects of study are divided into four groups. In order to obtain
a certificate it is necessary to pass in four subjects taken from not less than three groups.
A certificate therefore ensures a sound and fairly wide education. The subjects of the groups
are languages, mathematics, English history, and lastly science. One concession is made to
girls which is not made to boys. They are allowed to pass in two subjects one year, and two
others the next, and thus obtain their certificates piecemeal. Boys have to pass in all four
subjects the same year. The High School sent in seventeen candidates for the examination in
two or three of the subjects--History, Elementary Mathematics, French, German, and Latin,--and
fifteen of these passed in two subjects at least: and, inasmuch as seven of them had in a previous
year passed in two other subjects, they obtained their certificates. The rest carry on their
two subjects, and will, we hope, obtain their certificates next summer; six of them appear
to be still in the school. This is a very satisfactory result. The value of these certificates
to the public is the testimony they give to the very high efficiency of the teaching. These
examinations are not of the standard of the Junior or Senior Local Examinations. They are very
much harder. And all who know about these matters see at a glance that a school that ventures
to send in its girls for this examination only is aiming very high. The certificates for Music,
given by the Harrow Music School examiners, are also recognised by the profession as having
a considerable value. But on this subject I cannot speak with the same knowledge.

The value of these examinations to the mistresses is that they serve as a guide and standard
for teaching. We are all of us the better for being thus kept up to the mark. Their value to
you is that they help to make your work definite and sound: and that, if it is slipshod, you
shall at any rate know that it is slipshod.

Therefore, speaking for the Council, and as the parent of a High School girl, and as one of
the public, I may say that we set a very high value on these examinations and their results.
They test and prove absolute merit. Now, you may have noticed that one of the characteristics
of this school is the absence of all prizes and personal competitions within the school itself;
all that only brings out the relative merit of individuals. I dare say you have wondered why
this should be so, and perhaps grumbled a little. "Other girls," you say, "bring home prizes:
our brothers bring home prizes; or at any rate have the chance of doing so--why don't we?"
And not only you, but some friends of the school who would like to give prizes--for it is a
great pleasure to give prizes--have sometimes wondered why Miss Woods says "No." I will tell
you why. Miss Woods holds--and I believe she is quite right--that to introduce the element
of competition, while it would certainly stimulate the clever and industrious to more work,
would also certainly tend to obscure and weaken the real motives for work in all, which ought
to outlive, but do not always outlive, the age at which prizes are won.

Intelligent industry, without the inducement of prizes, is a far more precious and far more
durable habit than industry stimulated by incessant competition. Teaching and learning are
alike the better for the absence of this element, when possible. I consider this to be one
of the most striking characteristics of our High School, and one of which you ought to be most
proud. It is a distinction of this school. And when you speak of it, as you well may do, with
some pride, you will not forget that it is due entirely to the genius and character of your
Head-mistress. I believe that one result will be, that you will be the more certain to continue
to educate yourselves, and not to imagine that education is over when you leave school.

Is it necessary to say anything to you about the value of education? I think it is; because
so many of the processes of education seem at the time to be drudgery, that any glimpses and
reminders of the noble results attained by all this drudgery are cheering and encouraging.
The reason why it is worth your while to get the best possible education you can, to continue
it as long as you can, to make the very most of it by using all your intelligence and industry
and vivacity, and by resolving to enjoy every detail of it, and indeed of all your school life,
is that it will make you--you yourself--so much more of a person. More--as being more pleasant
to others, more useful to others, in an ever-widening sphere of influence, but also more as
attaining a higher development of your own nature.

Let us look at two or three ways in which, as you may easily see, education helps to do some
of these things.

Education increases your interest in everything; in art, in history, in politics, in literature,
in novels, in scenery, in character, in travel, in your relation to friends, to servants, to
everybody. And it is interest in these things that is the never-failing charm in a companion.
Who could bear to live with a thoroughly uneducated woman?--a country milkmaid, for instance,
or an uneducated milliner's girl. She would bore one to death in a week. Now, just so far as
girls of your class approach to the type of the milkmaid or the milliner, so far they are sure
to be eventually mere gossips and bores to friends, family, and acquaintance, in spite of amiabilities
of all sorts. Many-sided and ever-growing interests, a life and aims capable of expansion--the
fruits of a trained and active mind--are the durable charms and wholesome influences in all
society. These are among the results of a really liberal education. Education does something
to overcome the prejudices of mere ignorance. Of all sorts of massive, impenetrable obstacles,
the most hopeless and immovable is the prejudice of a thoroughly ignorant and narrow-minded
woman of a certain social position. It forms a solid wall which bars all progress. Argument,
authority, proof, experience avail nought. And remember, that the prejudices of ignorance are
responsible for far more evils in this world than ill-nature or even vice. Ill-nature and vice
are not very common, at any rate in the rank of ladies; they are discountenanced by society;
but the prejudices of ignorance--I am sure you wish me to tell you the truth--these are not rare.

Think, moreover, for a moment how much the cultivated intelligence of a few does to render
the society in which we move more enjoyable: how it converts "the random and officious sociabilities
of society" into a quickening and enjoyable intercourse and stimulus: everybody can recall
instances of such a happy result of education. This can only be done by educated women. How
much more might be done if there were more of them!

And think, too, how enormously a great increase of trained intelligence in our own class--among
such as you will be in a few years--would increase the power of dealing with great social questions.
All sorts of work is brought to a standstill for want of trained intelligence. It is not good
will, it is not enthusiasm, it is not money that is wanted for all sorts of work; it is good
sense, trained intelligence, cultivated minds. Some rather difficult piece of work has to be
done; and one runs over in one's mind who could be found to do it. One after another is given
up. One lacks the ability--another the steadiness--another the training--another the mind awakened
to see the need: and so the work is not done. "The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers
are few." A really liberal education, and the influence at school of cultivated and vigorous
minds, is the cure for this.

Again, you will do little good in the world unless you have wide and strong sympathies: wide--so
as to embrace many different types of character; strong--so as to outlast minor rebuffs and
failures. Now understanding is the first step to sympathy, and therefore education widens and
strengthens our sympathies: it delivers us from ignorant prepossessions, and in this way alone
it doubles our powers, and fits us for far greater varieties of life, and for the unknown demands
that the future may make upon us.

I spoke of the narrowness and immovability of ignorance. There is another narrowness which
is not due to ignorance so much as to persistent exclusiveness in the range of ideas admitted.
Fight against this with all your might. The tendency of all uneducated people is to view each
thing as it is by itself, each part without reference to the whole; and then increased knowledge
of that part does little more than intensify the narrowness. Education--liberal education--and
the association with many and active types of mind, among people of your own age, as well as
your teachers, is the only cure for this. Try to understand other people's point of view. Don't
think that you and a select few have a monopoly of all truth and wisdom. "It takes all sorts
to make a world," and you must understand "all sorts" if you would understand the world and
help it.

You are living in a great age, when changes of many kinds are in progress in our political
and social and religious ideas. There never was a greater need of trained intelligence, clear
heads, and earnest hearts. And the part that women play is not a subordinate one. They act
directly, and still more indirectly. The best men that have ever lived have traced their high
ideals to the influence of noble women as mothers or sisters or wives. No man who is engaged
in the serious work of the world, in the effort to purify public opinion and direct it aright,
but is helped or hindered by the women of his household. Few men can stand the depressing and
degrading influence of the uninterested and placid amiability of women incapable of the true
public spirit, incapable of a generous or noble aim--whose whole sphere of ideas is petty and
personal. It is not only that such women do nothing themselves--they slowly asphyxiate their
friends, their brothers, or their husbands. These are the unawakened women; and education may
deliver you from this dreadful fate, which is commoner than you think.

In no respect is the influence of women more important than in religion. Much might be said
of the obstacles placed in the way of religious progress by the crude and dogmatic prepossessions
of ignorant women, who will rush in with confident assertion where angels might fear to tread:
but this is neither the time nor the place for such remarks. It is enough to remind you that
in no part of your life do you more need the width and modesty and courage of thought, and
the delicacy of insight given by culture, than when you are facing the grave religious questions
of the day, either for yourself or others.

But let me turn to a somewhat less serious subject. We earnestly desire that women should be
highly educated. And yet is there not a type of educated woman which we do not wholly admire?
I am not going to caricature a bluestocking, but to point out one or two real dangers. Education
is good; but perfect sanity is better still. Sanity is the most excellent of all women's excellences.
We forgive eccentricity and one-sidedness--the want of perfect sanity--in men, and especially
men of genius; and we rather reluctantly forgive it in women of genius; but in ordinary folk,
no. These are the strong-minded women; ordinary folk, who make a vigorous protest against one
or two of the minor mistakes of society, instead of lifting the whole: I should call these,
women of imperfect sanity. It is a small matter that you should protest against some small
maladjustment or folly; but it is a great matter that you should be perfectly sane and well-balanced.
Now education helps sanity. It shows the proportion of things. An American essayist bids us
"keep our eyes on the fixed stars." Education helps us to do this. It helps us to live the
life we have to lead on a higher mental and spiritual level it glorifies the actual.

And now, seeing these things are so, what ought to be the attitude of educated girls and women
towards pleasures, the usual pleasures of society? Certainly not the cynical one--"Life would
be tolerable if it were not for its pleasures." Pleasures do make up, and ought to make up,
a considerable portion of life. Now I have no time for an essay on pleasures. I will only offer
two remarks. One is that the pleasure open to all cultivated women, even in the pleasures that
please them least, is the pleasure of giving pleasure. Go to give pleasure, not to get it,
and that converts anything into a pleasure. The other remark is, Pitch your ordinary level
of life on so quiet a note that simple things shall not fail to please. If home, and children,
and games, and the daily routine of life--if the sight of October woods and the Severn sea,
and of human happy faces fail to please, then either in fact or in imagination you are drugging
yourself with some strong drink of excitement, and spoiling the natural healthy appetite for
simple pleasures. This is one of the dangers of educated women: but it is their danger because
they are imperfectly educated: educated on one side, that of books; and not on the other and
greater side, of wide human sympathies. Society seems to burden and narrow and dull the uneducated
woman, but it also hardens and dulls a certain sort of educated woman too, one who refuses
her sympathies to the pleasures of life. But to the fuller nature, society brings width and
fresh clearness. It gives the larger heart and the readier sympathy, and the wider the sphere
the more does such a nature expand to fill it.

What I am now saying amounts to this, that an educated intelligence is good, but an educated
sympathy is better.

There is something to remember: cultivate sympathy, gentleness, forgiveness, purity, truth,
love: and then, though you may have no other gifts, "until you're among the angels, you cannot
be commonplace."

And here I might conclude. But I should not satisfy myself or you, if I did so without paying
my tribute of genuine commendation to the High School, and of hearty respect for the Head-mistress
and her staff of teachers. Clifton owes Miss Woods a great debt for the tone of high-mindedness
and loyalty, for the moral and intellectual stamp that she has set on the School. She has won,
as we all know, the sincere respect and attachment of her mistresses and her old pupils; and
the older and wiser you grow the more you all will learn to honour and love her. And you will
please her best by thorough loyalty to the highest aims of the School which she puts before
you by her words and by her example.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: An Address given at the High School, Clifton, Oct. 25, 1887.]

II.

HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS.

HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION FOR GIRLS.[2]

It is a real pleasure to find myself in Bath on an educational mission. I have ancestral and
personal educational connections with Bath of very old standing. My father was curate of St.
Michael's before I was born; my grandfather and uncle were in succession head-masters of the
Grammar School here, fine scholars both, of the old school. My first visit to Bath was when
I was nine years old, and on that occasion I had my first real stand-up fight with a small
Bath Grammar School boy. I think that if the old house is still standing I could find the place
where we fought, and where a master brutally interrupted us with a walking-stick. Since those
days, my relations with Bath have been rare, but peaceful; unless, indeed, the honourable competition
between Clifton College and its brilliant daughter, Bath College, may be regarded as a ceaseless
but a friendly combat between their two head-masters whom you see so peaceably side by side.

I propose, first, to say a few words about the condition of schools twenty years ago, before
the present impulse towards the higher education of women gave us High Schools and Colleges
at the Universities, and other educational movements. There is a most interesting chapter in
the report of the Endowed Schools Commission of 1868 on girls' schools, and some valuable evidence
collected by the Assistant Commissioners. It is not ancient history yet, and therein lies its
great value to us. It shows us the evils from which we are only now escaping in our High Schools:
evils which still prevail to a formidable extent in a large section of girls' education, and
from which I can scarcely imagine Bath is wholly free.

The report speaks of the general indifference of parents to the education of their girls in
our whole upper and middle class, both absolutely and relatively to that of their boys. That
indifference in part remains. There was a strong prejudice that girls could not learn the same
subjects as boys, and that even if they could, such an education was useless and even injurious.
That prejudice still survives, in face of facts.

The right education, it was thought, for girls, was one of accomplishments and of routine work,
with conversational knowledge of French. The ideal of a girl's character was that she was to
be merely amiable, ready to please and be pleased; it was, as was somewhat severely said by
one of the Assistant Commissioners, not to be good and useful when married, but to get married.
There was no ideal for single women. They did not realize how much of the work of the world
must go undone unless there is a large class of highly educated single women. This view of
girls' education is not yet extinct.

Corresponding to the ideal on the part of the ordinary British parent was, of course, the school
itself. There was no high ideal of physical health, and but little belief that it depended
on physical conditions; therefore the schools were neither large and airy, nor well provided
with recreation ground; not games and play, but an operation known as "crocodiling" formed
the daily and wearisome exercise of girls. That defect also is common still. There was no ideal
of art, or belief in the effect of artistic surroundings, and therefore the schools were unpretending
even to ugliness and meanness. The walls were not beautified with pictures, nor were the rooms
furnished with taste. There was no high ideal of cultivating the intelligence, and therefore
most of the lessons that were not devoted to accomplishments, such as music, flower-painting,
fancy work, hand-screen making, etc., were given to memory work, and note-books, in which extracts
were made from standard authors and specimen sums worked with flourishes wondrous to behold.
The serious study of literature and history was almost unknown. The memory work consisted in
many schools in learning Mangnall's Questions and Brewer's Guide to Science--fearful books.
The first was miscellaneous: What is lightning? How is sago made? What were the Sicilian Vespers,
the properties of the atmosphere, the length of the Mississippi, and the Pelagian heresy? These
are, I believe, actual specimens of the questions; and the answers were committed to memory.
About twenty-five years ago I examined some girls in Brewer's Guide to Science. The verbal
knowledge of some of them was quite wonderful; their understanding of the subject absolutely
nil. They could rattle off all about positive and negative electricity, and Leyden jars and
batteries; but the words obviously conveyed no ideas whatever, and they cheerfully talked utter
nonsense in answer to questions not in the book.

Examinations for schools were not yet instituted; the education was unguided, and therefore
largely misguided. Do not let us imagine for an instant that these evils have been generally
cured. The secondary education of the country is still in a deplorable condition; and it behoves
us to repeat on all occasions that it is so. The schools I am describing from the report of
twenty years ago exist and abound and flourish still, owing to the widespread indifference
of parents to the education of their girls, to the qualifications and training of their mistresses,
and the efficiency of the schools. Untested, unguided, they exist and even thrive, and will
do so until a sounder public opinion and the proved superiority of well-trained mistresses
and well-educated girls gradually exterminates the inefficient schools. But we are, I fear,
a long way still from this desirable consummation.

What were the mistresses? For the most part worthy, even excellent ladies, who had no other
means of livelihood, and who had no special education themselves, and no training whatever.
Naturally they taught what they could, and laid stress on what was called the formation of
character, which they usually regarded as somehow alternative with intellectual attainments
and stimulus, and progress in which could not be submitted to obvious tests.

I suppose most of us think that there is no more valuable assistance in the formation of character
than any pursuit that leads the mind away from frivolous pursuits, egotistic or morbid fancies,
and fills it with memories of noble words and lives, teaches it to love our great poets and
writers, and gives it sympathies with great causes. But this was not the prevailing opinion
twenty years ago.

I have been describing the common type of what used to be called the "seminaries" and "establishments
for young ladies" of twenty years ago. And it may give you the impression that there was no
good education to be got in those days, and that the ladies of my generation were therefore
very ill-educated. Permit me to correct that impression. There were homes in which the girls
learned something from father or from mother, or, perhaps, something from a not very talented
governess; but in which they educated themselves with a hunger and thirst after knowledge,
and an enjoyment of literature that is rare in any school. Do not imagine that any school education
under mistresses however skilled, or resulting in certificates however brilliant, is really
as effective in the formation of strong intellectual tastes and clear judgment and ability
as the self-education which was won by the mothers of some of you, by the women of my generation
and those before. Such education was rare, but it was possible, and it is possible still. Under
such a system a few are educated and the many fail altogether. The advantage of our day is
that education is offered to a much larger number. But I cannot call it better than that which
was won by a few in the generation of your mothers. If we would combine the exceptional merits
of the old system with the high average merits of the new we must jealously preserve the element
of freedom and self-education.

To return to the report. The indifference of parents and the public, the inadequacy of school
buildings and appliances, the low intellectual ideals of mistresses, were the evils of twenty
years ago, prevailing very widely and lowering school education, and we must not expect to
have got rid of them altogether. An educational atmosphere is not changed in twenty years.

But our High Schools are a very real step in advance. The numbers of your school show that
there is a considerable and increasing fraction of residents in Bath who do care for the intellectual
quality of the education of their girls; and the report of the examiners is a most satisfactory
guarantee that the instruction given here is thoroughly efficient along the whole line. Bath
must be congratulated on its High School for Girls, as it must be congratulated on its College
for Boys.

But are we therefore to rest and be thankful in the complacent belief that we have now at length
attained perfection, at least in our High Schools? I am called in to bless High School education,
and I do bless it from my heart. I know something of it. My own daughter was at such a school;
I have been vice-president of a High School for ten years. I wish there were High Schools in
every town in England. They have done and are doing much to lift the standard of girls' education
in England. But I will again remind you that High Schools are educating but a fraction of the
population, and that the faults of twenty years ago still characterise our girls' education
as a whole.

