It is for that reason that Demeter is the Madonna of Greece, as her ethereal daughter was the
saviour. The myth of it all, brought by Pythagoras from Egypt is very old. Known in Memphis,
it was known too in Babylon, perhaps before Memphis was. But the legend of Isis and that of
Ishtar--both of whom descended into hell--lack the transparent charm which this idyl unfolds
and of which the significance was revealed only to initiate in epiphanies at Eleusis.

Before these sacraments Greece stood, a finger to her lips. Yet the whispers from them that
have reached us, while furtive perhaps, are clear. They furnished the poets with notes that
are resonant still. They lifted the drama to heights that astound. Even in the fancy balls
of Aristophanes, where men were ribald and the gods were mocked, suddenly, in the midst of
the orgy, laughter ceased, obscenities were hushed. Afar a hymn resounded. It was the chorus
of the Initiate going measuredly by.

The original mysteries were Hermetic. Enterable only after a prolonged novitiate, the adept
then beheld an unfolding of the theosophy of the soul. In visions, possibly ecstatic, he saw
the series of its incarnations, the seven cycles through which it passed, the Ship of a Million
Years on which the migrations are effected and on which, at last, from the Valley of the Shadow
of Death, it sails to its primal home.

That home was colour, its sustenance light. There, in ethereal evolutions, its incarnations
began. At first unsubstantial and wholly ineffable, these turned for it every object into beauty,
every sound into joy. Without needs, from beatitude to beatitude blissfully it floated. But,
subjected to the double attraction of matter and of sin, the initiate saw the memories and
attributes of its spirituality fade. He saw it flutter, and fluttering sink. He saw that in
sinking it enveloped itself in garments that grew heavier at each descent. Through the denser
clothing he saw the desires of the flesh pulsate. He saw them force it lower, still lower,
until, fallen into its earthly tenement, it swooned in the senses of man. From the chains of
that prison he learned that the soul's one escape was in a recovery of the memory of what it
had been when it was other than what it had become.

That memory the mysteries provided. Those of Eleusis differed from the Egyptian only in detail.
At Eleusis, in lieu of visions, there were tableaux. Persephone, beckoned by desire, straying
then from Olympos, afterward fainting in the arms of Pluto, but subsequently, while preparing
her own reascension, saving and embellishing all that approach, was the symbol, in an Hellenic
setting, of the fall and redemption of man.

The human tragedy thus portrayed was the luminous counterpart of the dark dramas that Athens
beheld. There, in the theatre--which itself was a church with the stage for pulpit--man, blinded
by passions, the Fates pursued and Destiny felled.

The sombre spectacle was inexplicable. At Eleusis was enlightenment. "Eskato Bebeloï"--Out
from here, the profane--the heralds shouted as the mysteries began. "Konx ompax"--Go in peace--they
called when the epiphanies were completed.

In peace the initiate went, serenely, it is said, ever after. From them the load of ignorance
was lifted. But what their impressions were is unrecorded. They were bound to secrecy. No one
could learn what occurred without being initiated, or without dying. For death too is initiation.

The mysteries were schools of immortality. They plentifully taught many a lesson that Christianity
afterward instilled. But their drapery was perhaps over ornate. Truth does not need any. Truth
always should be charming. Yet always it should be naked as well. About it the mysteries hung
a raiment that was beautiful, but of which the rich embroideries obscured. The mysteries could
not have been more fascinating, that is not possible, but, the myths removed, in simple nudity
they would have been more clear. Doubtless it was for that very reason, in order that they
might not be transparent, that the myths were employed. It is for that very reason, perhaps,
that Christianity also adopted a few. Yet at least from cant they were free. Among the multiple
divinities of Greece, hypocrisy was the unknown god. Consideration of the others is, to-day,
usually effected through the pages of Ovid. One might as well study Christianity in the works
of Voltaire. Christianity's brightest days were in the dark ages. The splendid glamour of them
that persists is due to many causes, among which, in minor degree, may be the compelling glare
of Greek genius. That glare, veiled in the mysteries, philosophy reflects.

Philosophy is but the love of wisdom. It began with Socrates. He had no belief in the gods.
The man who has none may be very religious. But though Socrates did not believe in the gods
he did not deny them. He did what perhaps was worse. He ignored their perfectly poetic existence.
He was put to death for it, though only at the conclusion of a long promenade during which
he delivered Athenian youths of their intelligence. Facility in the operation may have been
inherited. Socrates was the son of a midwife. His own progeny consisted in a complete transfiguration
of Athenian thought. He told of an Intelligence, supreme, ethical, just, seeing all, hearing
all, governing all; a creator made not after the image of man but of the soul, and visible
only in the conscience. It was for that he died. There was no such god on Olympos.

There was an additional indictment. Socrates was accused of perverting the jeunesse dorée.
At a period when, everywhere, save only in Israel, the abnormal was usual, Socrates was almost
insultingly chaste. The perversion of which he was accused was not of that order. It was that
of inciting lads to disobey their parents when the latter opposed what he taught.

"I am come to set a man against his father," it is written in Matthew. The mission of Socrates
was the same. Because of it he died. He was the first martyr. But his death was overwhelming
in its simplicity. Even in fairyland there has been nothing more calm. By way of preparation
he said to his judges: "Were you to offer to acquit me on condition that I no longer profess
what I believe, I would answer; 'Athenians, I honour and I love you, but a god has commanded
me and that god I will obey, rather than you.'"

In the speech was irony, with which Athens was familiar. But it also displayed a conception,
wholly new, that of maintaining at any cost the truth. The novelty must have charmed. When
Peter and the apostles were arraigned before the Sanhedrin, their defence consisted in the
very words that Socrates had used: "We should obey God rather than man."[38]

[Footnote 38: Acts v. 29.]

Socrates wrote nothing. The Buddha did not either. Neither did the Christ. These had their
evangelists. Socrates had also disciples who, as vehicle for his ideas, employed the nightingale
tongue of beauty into which the Law and the Prophets were translated by the Septuagint and
into which the Gospels were put.

It would be irreverent to suggest that the latter are in any way indebted to Socratic inspiration.
It would be irrelevant as well. For, while the Intelligence that Socrates preached differed
as much from the volage and voluptuous Zeus as the God of Christendom differs from the Jahveh
of Job, yet, in a divergence so wide, an idealist, very poor except in ideas; a teacher killed
by those who knew not what they did; a philosopher that drained the cup without even asking
that it pass from him; a mere reformer, though dangerous perhaps as every reformer worth the
name must be; but, otherwise, a mere man like any other, only a little better, could obviously
have had no share. For reasons not minor but major, Plato could have had none either.

It is related that a Roman invader sank back, stricken with deisidaimonia--the awe that the
gods inspired--at the sight of the Pheidian Zeus. It is with a wonder not cognate certainly,
yet in a measure relative, that one considers what Socrates must have been if millennia have
gone without producing one mind approaching that of his spiritual heir. It was uranian; but
not disassociated from human things.

Plato, like his master, was but a man in whom the ideal was intuitive, perhaps the infernal
also. In the gardens of the Academe and along the banks of the Ilissus, he announced a Last
Judgment. The announcement, contained in the Phædo, had for supplement a picture that may have
been Persian, of the righteous ascending to heaven and the wicked descending to hell. In the
Laws, the picture was annotated with a statement to the effect that whatever a man may do,
there is an eye that sees him, a memory that registers and retains. In the Republic he declared
that afflictions are blessings in disguise. But his "Republic," a utopian commonwealth, was
not, he said, of this world, adding in the Phædo, that few are chosen though many are called.

The mystery of the catholicism of the Incas, reported back to the Holy Office, was there defined
as an artifice of the devil. With finer circumspection, Christian Fathers attributed the denser
mystery of Greek philosophy to the inspiration of God.

Certainly it is ample. As exemplified by Plato it has, though, its limitations. There is no
charity in it. Plato preached humility, but there is none in his sermons. His thought is a
winged thing, as the thought of a poet ever should be. But in the expression of it he seems
smiling, disdainful, indifferent as a statue to the poverties of the heart. That too, perhaps,
is as it should be. The high muse wears a radiant peplum. Anxiety is banished from the minds
that she haunts. Then, also, if, in the nectar of Plato's speech, compassion is not an ingredient,
it may be because, in his violet-crowned city, it was strewn open-handed through the beautiful
streets. There, public malediction was visited on anyone that omitted to guide a stranger on
his way.

Israel was too strictly monotheistic to raise an altar to Pity, the rest of antiquity too cruel.
In Athens there was one. In addition there were missions for the needy, asylums for the infirm.
If anywhere, at that period, human sympathy existed, it was in Greece. The aristocratic silence
of Plato may have been due to that fact. He would not talk of the obvious, though he did of
the vile. In one of his books the then common and abnormal conception of sexuality was, if
not authorized, at least condoned. It is conjectural, however, whether the conception was more
monstrous than that which subsequent mysticity evolved.

Said Ruysbroeck: "The mystic carries her soul in her hand and gives it to whomsoever she wishes."
Said St. Francis of Sales: "The soul draws to itself motives of love and delectates in them."
What the gift and what the delectation were, other saints have described.

Marie de la Croix asserted that in the arms of the celestial Spouse she swam in an ocean of
delight. Concerning that Spouse, Marie Alacoque added: "Like the most passionate of lovers
he made me understand that I should taste what is sweetest in the suavity of caresses, and
indeed, so poignant were they, that I swooned." The ravishments which St. Theresa experienced
she expressed in terms of abandoned precision. Mme. Guyon wrote so carnally of the divine that
Bossuet exclaimed; "Seigneur, if I dared, I would pray that a seraph with a flaming sword might
come and purify my lips sullied by this recital."[39]

[Footnote 39: Relation sur le Quiétisme.]

Augustin pleasantly remarked that we are all born for hell. One need not agree with him. In
the presence of the possibly monstrous and the impossibly blasphemous, there is always a recourse.
It is to turn away, though it be to Zeus, a belief in whom, however stupid, is ennobling beside
the turpitudes that Christian mysticism produced.

At Athens, meanwhile, the religion of State persisted. So also did philosophy. When, occasionally,
the two met, the latter bowed. That was sufficient. Religion exacted respect, not belief. It
was not a faith, it was a law, one that for its majesty was admired and for its poetry was
beloved. In the deification of whatever is exquisite it was but an artistic cult. The real
Olympos was the Pantheon. The other was fading away. Deeper and deeper it was sinking back
into the golden dream from which it had sprung. Further and further the crystal parapets were
retreating. Dimmer and more dim the gorgeous host became. In words of perfect piety Epicurus
pictured them in the felicity of the ideal. There, they had no heed of man, no desire for worship,
no wish for prayer. It was unnecessary even to think of them. Decorously, with every homage,
they were being deposed.

But if Epicurus was decorous, Evemerus was devout. It was his endeavour, he said, not to undermine
but to fortify. The gods he described as philanthropists whom a grateful world had deified.
Zeus had waged a sacrilegious war against his father. Aphrodite was a harlot and a procuress.
The others were equally commendable. Once they had all lived. Since then all had died. Evemerus
had seen their tombs.

One should not believe him. Their parapets are dimmer, perhaps, but from them still they lean
and laugh. They are immortal as the hexameters in which their loves unfold. Yet, oddly enough,
presently the oracle of Delphi strangled. In his cavern Trophonios was gagged. The voice of
Mopsos withered.

That is nothing. On the Ionian, the captain of a ship heard some one calling loudly at him
from the sea. The passengers, who were at table, looked out astounded. Again the loud voice
called: "Captain, when you reach shore announce that the great god Pan is dead."[40]

[Footnote 40: Plutarch: de Oracul. defect. 14.]

It may be that it was true. It may be that after Pan the others departed. When Paul reached
Athens he found a denuded Pantheon, a vacant Olympos, skies more empty still.

VII

JUPITER

The name of the national deity of Israel is unpronounceable. The name of the national divinity
of Rome is unknown. To all but the hierophants it was a secret. For uttering it a senator was
put to death. But Tullius Hostilius erected temples to Fear and to Pallor. It may have been
Fright. The conjecture is supported by the fact that, as was usual, Rome had any number of
deified epithets, as she had also a quantity of little bits of gods. These latter greatly amused
the Christian Fathers. Among them was Alemona, who, in homely English, was Wet-nurse.

Tertullian, perhaps naïvely, remarked: "Superstition has invented these deities for whom we
have substituted angels." In addition to the diva mater Alemona was the divus pater Vaticanus,
the holy father Vatican, who assisted at a child's first cry. There was the equally holy father
Fabulin, who attended him in his earliest efforts at speech. Neither of them had anything else
to do.

Pavor had. At thunder, at lightning, at a meteor, at moisture on a wall, at no matter what,
at silence even, the descendants of a she-wolf's nursling quailed. They lived in a panic. In
panic the gods were born. It is but natural, perhaps, that Fright should have been held supreme.
The other gods, mainly divinities of prey and of havoc, were lustreless as the imaginations
that conceived them. Prosaic, unimaged, without poetry or myth, they dully persisted until
pedlars appeared with Hellenic legends and wares. To their tales Rome listened. Then eidolons
of the Olympians became naturalized there. Zeus was transformed into Jupiter, Aphrodite into
Venus, Pallas into Minerva, Demeter into Ceres, and all of them--and with them all the others--into
an irritable police. The Greek gods enchanted, those of Rome alarmed. Plutarch said that they
were indignant if one presumed to so much as sneeze.

Worship, consequently, was a necessary precaution, an insurance against divine risks, a matter
of business in which the devout bargained with the divine. Ovid represented Numa trying to
elude the exigencies of Jove. The latter had demanded the sacrifice of a head. "You shall have
a cabbage," said the king. "I mean something human." "Some hairs then." "No, I want something
alive." "We will give you a pretty little fish." Jupiter laughed and yielded. That was much
later, after Lucretius, in putting Epicurus into verse, had declared religion to be the mother
of sin. By that time Fear and Pallor had struck terror into the very marrow of barbarian bones.
Fright was a god more serviceable than Zeus. With him Rome conquered the world. Yet in the
conquest Fright became Might and the latter an effulgence of Jove's.

Jove was magnificent. In the Capitol he throned so augustly that we swear by him still. Like
Rome he is immortal. But Pavor, that had faded into him, was never invoked. The reason was
not sacerdotal, it was political. Rome never imposed her gods on the quelled. With superior
tact she lured their gods from them. At any siege, that was her first device. To it she believed
her victories were due. It was to avoid possible reprisals and to remain invincible, that her
own national divinity she so carefully concealed that the name still is a secret. With the
gods, Rome gathered the creeds of the world, set them like fountains among her hills, and drank
of their sacred waters. Her early deity is unknown. But the secret of her eternity is in the
religions that she absorbed. It was these that made her immortal.

To that immortality the obscure god of an obscure people contributed largely, perhaps, but
perhaps, too, not uniquely. Jahveh might have remained unperceived behind the veil of the sanctuary
had not his altar been illuminated by lights from other shrines. In the early days of the empire,
Rome was fully aware of the glamour of Amon, of the star of Ormuzd, Brahm's cerulean lotos
and the rainbow heights of Bel-Marduk. But in the splendour of Jove all these were opaque.

Jupiter, always imposing, was grandiose then. His thoughts were vast as the sky. In a direct
revelation to Vergil he said of his chosen people: "I have set no limits to their conquest
or its duration. The empire I have given them shall be without end."[41] Hebrew prophets had
spoken similarly. Vergil must have been more truly inspired. The Roman empire, nominally holy,
figuratively still exists. Yet fulfilment of the prophecy is due perhaps less to the God of
the Gentiles than to the God of the Jews. Though perhaps also it may be permissible to discern
in the latter a transfiguration of Jove, who originally Zeus, and primarily not Hellenic but
Hindu, ultimately became supreme. After the terrific struggle which resulted in that final
metamorphosis, Jerusalem, disinherited, saw Rome the spiritual capital of the globe.

[Footnote 41: Æneid i. 278.]

Jerusalem was not a home of logic. Rome was the city of law. That law, cold, inflexible, passionless
as a sword and quite as effective, Rome brandished at philosophy. It is said that the intellectual
gymnastics of Greece were displeasing to her traditions. It is more probable that augurs had
foreseen or oracles had foretold that philosophy would divest her of the sword, and with it
of her sceptre and her might. Ideas cannot be decapitated. Only ridicule can demolish them.
Philosophy, mistress of irony, resisted while nations fell. It was philosophy that first undermined
established creeds and then led to the pursuit of new ones. Yet it may be that a contributing
cause was a curious theory that the world was to end. Foretold in the Brahmanas, in the Avesta
and in the Eddas, probably it was in the Sibylline Books. If not, the subsequent Church may
have so assumed.

Not alone David and the Sibyl but Etruscan seers had seen in the skies that the tenth and last
astronomical cycle had begun.[42] Plutarch, in his life of Sylla, testified to the general
belief in an approaching cataclysm. Lucretius announced that at any moment it might occur.[43]
That was in the latter days of the republic. In the early days of the empire the theory persisting
may have induced the hope of a saviour. Suetonius said that nature in her parturitions was
elaborating a king.[44] Afterward he added that such was Asia's archaic belief.[45] Recent
discoveries have verified the assertion. In the Akkadian Epic of Dibbara a messiah was foretold.[46]
That epic, anterior to a cognate Egyptian prophecy,[47] anterior also to the Sibylline Books,
was anterior too to the Hebrew prophets and necessarily to those of Rome.

[Footnote 42: Censorinus: De die nat. 17.]

[Footnote 43: De rerum nat., v. 105.]

[Footnote 44: In Augusto, 74.]

[Footnote 45: In Vesp. 4.]

[Footnote 46: Jastrow: op. cit.]

[Footnote 47: See back, Chapter III.]

Among these was Vergil. In the fourth Eclogue he beheld an age of gold, preceded by the advent
on earth of a son of Jove, under whose auspices the last traces of sin and sorrow were to disappear
and a new race descend from heaven. "The serpent shall die," he declared, adding: "The time
is at hand."

The Eclogue was written 40 B.C., during the consulate of Pallio, whom the poet wished perhaps
to flatter. Then presently Ovid sang the deathless soul and Tibullus gave rendezvous hereafter.
The atmosphere dripped with wonders. The air became charged with the miraculous. At stated
intervals the doors of temples opened of themselves. Statues perspired visibly. There was a
book that explained the mechanism of these marvels. It interested nobody. Prodigies were matters
of course.

The people had a heaven, also a hell, both of them Greek, a purgatory that may have been Asiatic,
and, pending the advent of the son of Jove, in Mithra they could have had a redeemer. Had it
been desired, Buddhism could have supplied gospels, India the trinity, Persia the resurrection,
Egypt the life. From Iran could have been obtained an Intelligence, sovereign, unimaged, and
just. That was unnecessary. Long since Socrates had displayed it. In addition, Epicurus had
told of an ascension of heavens, skies beyond the sky, worlds without number, the many mansions
of a later faith.

Meanwhile, austerity was an appanage of the stoics, in whose faultless code the dominant note
was contempt for whatever is base, respect for all that is noble. A doctrine of great beauty,
purely Greek, as was everything else in Rome that was beautiful, its heights were too lofty
for the vulgar. It appealed only to the lettered, that is to the few, to the infrequent disciples
of Zeno and of Cicero, his prophet, who, Erasmus said, was inspired by God.

It may be that Cicero inspired a few of God's preachers. The latter were not yet in Rome. Christ
had not come. At that period, unique in history, man alone existed. The temples were thronged,
but the skies were bare. Cicero knew that. Elysium and Hades were as chimerical to him as the
Epicurean heavens. "People," he said, "talk of these places as though they had been there."
But that which was superstition to him he regarded as beneficial for others, who had to have
something and who got it, in temples where a sin was a prayer.

There was once a play of which there has survived but the title: The Last Will and Testament
of Defunct Jupiter. It appeared in the days of Diocletian, but it might have appealed when
Cicero taught. Faith then had fainted. Fright had ceased to build. Worship remained, but religion
had gone. The gods themselves were departing. The epoch itself was apoplectic. The tramp of
legions was continuous. Not alone the skies but the world was in a ferment. It was not until
a diadem, falling from Cleopatra's golden bed, rolled to the feet of Augustus, that the gods
were stayed and faith revived.

In the interim, prisoners had been deported from Judea. At first they were slaves. Subsequently
manumitted, they formed a colony that in the high-viced city resembled Esther in the seraglio
of Ahasuerus. Rome, amateur of cults, always curious of foreign faiths, might have been interested
in Judaism. It had many analogies with local beliefs. Its adherents awaited, as Rome did, a
messiah. They awaited too a golden age. For those who were weary of philosophy, they had a
religion in which there was none. For those to whom the marvellous appealed, they had a history
in which miracles were a string of pearls. For those who were sceptic concerning the post-mortem,
they offered blankness. In addition, their god, the enemy of all others, was adapted to an
empire that recognized no sovereignty but its own. Readily might Rome have become Hebrew. But
then, with equal ease, she might have become Egyptian.

For those who were perhaps afraid of going to hell and yet may have been equally afraid of
not going anywhere, Egypt held passports to a land of light. Then too, the gods of Egypt were
friendly and accessible. They mingled familiarly with those of Rome, complaisantly with the
deified Cæsars, as already they had with the pharaohs, a condescension, parenthetically, that
did not protect them from Tiberius, who, for reasons with which religion had nothing whatever
to do, persecuted the Egyptians, as he persecuted also the Jews. None the less, Rome, weary
of local fictions, might have become converted to foreign ideas. In default of Syrian or Copt,
she might have become Persian as already she was Greek.

Augustus had other views. Divinities, made not merely after the image of man but in symbols
of sin, he saluted. With a hand usually small, but in this instance tolerably large, he re-established
them on their pedestals. A relapse to spiritual infancy resulted. It was what he sought. He
wanted to be a god himself and he became one. His power and, after him, that of his successors,
had no earthly limit, no restraint human or divine. It was the same omnipotence here that elsewhere
Jupiter wielded.

Jupiter had flamens who told him the time of day. He had others that read to him. For his amusement
there were mimes. For his delectation, matrons established themselves in the Capitol and affected
to be his loves. But then he was superb. Made of ivory, painted vermillion, seated colossally
on a colossal throne, a sceptre in one hand, a thunderbolt in the other, a radiating gold crown
on his august head, and, about his limbs, a shawl of Tyrian purple, he looked every inch the god.

The Cæsars, if less imposing, were more potent. Their hands, in which there was nothing symbolic,
held life and death, absolute dominion over everything, over every one. Jupiter was but a statue.
They alone were real, alone divine. To them incense ascended. At their feet libations poured.
The nectar fumes confused. Rome, mad as they, built them temples, raised them shrines, creating
for them a worship that they accepted, as only their due perhaps, but in which their reason
fled. In accounts of the epoch there is much mention of citizens, senators, patricians. Nominally
there were such people. Actually there were but slaves. The slaves had a succession of masters.
Among them was a lunatic, Caligula, and an imbecile, Claud. There were others. There was Terror,
there was Hatred, there was Crime. These last, though several, were yet but one. Collectively,
they were Nero.

If philosophy ever were needed it was in his monstrous day. To anyone, at any moment, there
might be brought the laconic message: Die. In republican Rome, philosophy separated man from
sin. At that period it was perhaps a luxury. In the imperial epoch it was a necessity. It separated
man from life. The philosophy of the republic Cicero expounded. That of the empire Seneca produced.

The neo-stoicism of the latter sustained the weak, consoled the just. It was a support and
a guide. It preached poverty. It condemned wealth. It deprecated honours and pleasure. It inculcated
chastity, humility, and resignation. It detached man from earth. It inspired, or attempted
to inspire, a desire for the ideal which it represented as the goal of the sage, who, true
child of God,[48] prepared for any torture, even for the cross,[49] yet, essentially meek,[50]
sorrowed for mankind,[51] happy if he might die for it.[52]

[Footnote 48: De Provid. i.]

[Footnote 49: Cf. Lactantius vi. 17.]

[Footnote 50: Epit. cxx. 13.]

[Footnote 51: Lucanus ii. 378.]

[Footnote 52: Ibidem.]

In iambics that caressed the ear like flutes, poets had told of Jupiter clothed in purple and
glory. They had told of his celestial amours, of his human and of his inhuman vices. Seneca
believed in Jupiter. But not in the Jove of the poets. That god dwelled in ivory and anapests.
Seneca's deity, nowhere visible, was everywhere present.[53] Creator of heaven and earth,[54]
without whom there is nothing,[55] from whom nothing is hidden,[56] and to whom all belongs,[57]
our Father,[58] whose will shall be done.[59]

[Footnote 53: Nemo novit Deum. Epit. xxxi. Ubique Deus. Epit. xli.]

[Footnote 54: Mundum hujus operis dominum et artificem. Quæst. nat. i.]

[Footnote 55: Sine quo nihil est. Quæst. nat. vii. 31.]

[Footnote 56: Nil Deo Clausam. Ep. lxxxx.]

[Footnote 57: Omnia habentem. Ep. xcv.]

[Footnote 58: Parens noster. Ep. cx.]

[Footnote 59: Placeat homini quidquid Deo placuit. Ep. lxxv.]

"Life," said Seneca, "is a tribulation, death a release. In order not to fear death," he added,
"think of it always. The day on which it comes judges all others."[60] Meanwhile comfort those
that sorrow.[61] Share your bread with them that hunger.[62] Wherever there is a human being
there is place for a good deed.[63] Sin is an ulcer. Deliverance from it is the beginning of
health--salvation, salutem."[64]

[Footnote 60: Ep. xxvi. 4.]

[Footnote 61: De Clem. ii. 6.]

[Footnote 62: Ep. xcv. 51.]

[Footnote 63: De Vita Beata, 14.]

[Footnote 64: Ep. xxviii. 9.]

Words such as these suggest others. They are anterior to those which they recall. The latter
are more beautiful, they are more ample, there is in them a poetry and a profundity that has
rarely been excelled. Yet, it may be, that a germ of them is in Seneca, or, more exactly, in
theories which, beginning in India, prophets, seers, and stoics variously interpreted and recalled.

However since they have charmed the world, their effect on Nero was curious. Seneca was his
preceptor. But so too was Art. The lessons of these teachers, fusing in the demented mind of
the monster, produced transcendental depravity, the apogee of the abnormal and the epileptically
obscene. What is more important, they produced Christianity.

Christianity already existed in Rome, but obscurely, subterraneanly, among a class of poor
people generally detested, particularly by the Jews. Christianity was not as yet a religion,
it was but the belief of a sect that announced that the world was to be consumed. Presently
Rome was. The conflagration, which was due to Nero, swept everything sacred away.

