It was soon evident they would not, or rather that they could not stand it. But it was not
alone his new reading in what regarded the person of Hamlet, that excited astonishment. Mr.
Stubbs had so many other new readings, that before he got to the end of his first speech, beginning
with, "Seems, madam! nay, it is," they were satisfied of what was to follow. When, however,
Mr. Stubbs stood alone upon the stage, in the full perfection of his figure, and concentrated
upon himself the undivided attention of the house--when he gathered up his face into an indescribable
aspect of woe--but, above all, when, placing his two hands upon his little round belly, he
exclaimed, while looking sorrowfully at it,

  "Oh, that this too, too solid flesh would melt,
      (Pat, went the right hand,)
  Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew,"
      (Pat, went the left hand,)

the effect was irresistible. One roar of laughter shook the theatre, from the back row of the
shilling gallery to the first row of the pit, mingled with cries of bravo! bravo! go on, my
little fellow--you shall have fair play--silence--bravo! silence!--Stubbs, meanwhile, looked
as if he were really wondering what they were all laughing at; and when at length silence was
partially restored, he continued his soliloquy. His delivery of the lines,

  "Fye on't oh fye! 'tis an unweeded garden
  That grown to seed: things rank and gross in nature," &c.

was one of his new readings--for holding up his finger, and looking towards the audience with
a severe expression of countenance, it appeared as though he were chiding their ill manners
in laughing at him, when he said, "Fye on't--oh, fye!"

He was allowed to proceed, however, with such interruptions only as his own original conceptions
of the part provoked from time to time; or when any thing he had to say was obviously susceptible
of an application to himself. Thus, for example, in the scene with Horatio and Marcellus, after
his interview with the ghost:--

  "Ham.           And now, good friends,
  As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
  Give me one poor request.

  Hor. What is it, my lord? We will.

  Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night."

"Let him, if he likes," exclaimed a voice from the pit--"he'll never see such a sight again."--Then,
in his instructions to the players, his delivery of them was accompanied by something like
the following running commentary:

"Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you, (that is impossible!) trippingly
on the tongue: but if you mouth it, as many of our players do, (laughter,) I had as lief the
town-crier spoke my lines. (Roars of laughter.)

It was thus Mr. Henry Augustus Constantine Stubbs enacted Hamlet; and it was not till the end
of the fourth act that he suffered a single observation to escape him, which indicated he thought
any thing was amiss. Then, indeed, while sitting in the green-room, and as if the idea had
just struck him, he said to Mr. Peaess, "Do you know, I begin to think I have some enemies
in the house, for when, in the scene with Ophelia, I said, 'What should such fellows as I do
crawling between earth and heaven?' somebody called out, loud enough for me to hear him, 'Ay!
what, indeed?' It's very odd. Did you notice it, ma'am?" he continued addressing the lady who
performed Ophelia. "I can't say I did," replied the lady, biting her lips most unmercifully,
to preserve her gravity of countenance.

This was the only remark made by the inimitable Mr. Stubbs during the whole evening, and he
went through the fifth act with unabated self-confidence. His dying scene was honoured with
thunders of applause, and loud cries of encore. Stubbs raised his head, and looking at Horatio,
who was bending over him, inquired, "Do you think they mean it?"

"Lie still, for God's sake!" exclaimed Horatio, and the curtain slowly descended amid deafening
roars of laughter, and shouts of hurrah! hurrah!

The next morning, at breakfast, Stubbs found all the daily papers on his table, pursuant to
his directions. He took up one, and read, in large letters--"THEATRE. FIRST AND LAST APPEARANCE
OF MR. HENRY AUGUSTUS CONSTANTINE STUBBS IN HAMLET."

He read no more. The paper dropped from his hands; and Mr. Stubbs remained nothing but a GENTLEMAN
all the rest of his life--Blackwood's Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES WRITTEN AT WARWICK CASTLE.[6]

BY CHARLES BADHAM, M.D. F.R.S.

Professor of Medicine in the University of Glasgow.

  I.

  I leave thee, Warwick, and thy precincts grey,
    Amidst a thousand winters still the same,
  Ere tempests rend thy last sad leaves away,
    And from thy bowers the native rock reclaim;
  Crisp dews now glitter on the joyless field,
    The gun's red disk now sheds no parting rays,
  And through thy trophied hall the burnished shield
    Disperses wide the swiftly mounting blaze.

  II.

  Thy pious paladins from Jordan's shore,
    And all thy steel-clad barons are at rest;
  Thy turrets sound to warder's tread no more;
    Beneath their brow the dove hath hung her nest;
  High on thy beams the harmless falchion shines;
    No stormy trumpet wakes thy deep repose;
  Past are the days that, on the serried lines
    Around thy walls, saw the portcullis close.

  III.

  The bitter feud was quell'd, the culverin
    No longer flash'd, us blighting mischief round,
  But many an age was on those ivies green,
    Ere Taste's calm eye had scann'd the gifted ground;
  Bade the fair path o'er glade or woodland stray,
    Bade Avon's swans through new Rialtos glide,
  Forced through the rock its deeply channell'd way,
    And threw, to Arts of peace, the portals wide.

  IV.

  But most to Her, whose light and daring hand
    Can swiftly follow Fancy's wildest dream!
  All times and nations in whose presence stand,
    All that creation owns, her boundless theme!
  And with her came the maid of Attic stole,
    Untaught of dazzling schools the gauds to prize,
  Who breathes in purest forms her calm control,
    Heroic strength, and grace that never dies!

  V.

  Ye that have linger'd o'er each form divine,
    Beneath the vault of Rome's unsullied sky,
  Or where Bologna's cloister'd walls enshrine
    Her martyr Saint--her mystic Rosary--
  Of Arragon the hapless daughter view!
    Scan, for ye may, that fine enamel near!
  Such Catherine was, thus Leonardo drew--
    Discern ye not the "Jove of painters" here?

  VI.

  Discern ye not the mighty master's power
    In yon devoted Saint's uplifted eye?
  That clouds the brow and bids already lour
    O'er the First Charles the shades of sorrows nigh?
  That now on furrow'd front of Rembrandt gleams,
    Now breathes the rose of life and beauty there,
  In the soft eye of Henrietta dreams,
  And fills with fire the glance of Gondomar?

  VII.

  Here to Salvator's solemn pencil true,
    Huge oaks swing rudely in the mountain blast;
  Here grave Poussin on gloomy canvass threw
    The lights that steal from clouds of tempest past;
  And see! from Canaletti's glassy wave,
    Like Eastern mosques, patrician Venice rise;
  Or marble moles that rippling waters lave,
    Where Claude's warm sunsets tinge Italian skies!

  VIII.

  Nor let the critic frown such themes arraign,
    Here sleep the mellow lyre's enchanting keys;
  Here the wrought table's darkly polish'd plain,
    Proffers light lore to much-enduring ease;
  Enamelled clocks here strike the silver bell;
    Here Persia spreads the web of many dies;
  Around, on silken couch, soft cushions swell,
    That Stambol's viziers proud might not despise.

  IX.

  The golden lamp here sheds its pearly light,
    Within the cedar'd panels, dusky pale;
  No mirror'd walls the wandering glance invite,
    No gauzy curtains drop the misty veil.
  And there the vista leads of lessening doors,
    And there the summer sunset's golden gleam
  Along the line of darkling portrait pours,
    And warms the polish'd oak or ponderous beam.

  X.

  Hark! from the depths beneath that proud saloon
    The water's moan comes fitful and subdued,
  Where in mild glory yon triumphant moon
    Smiles on the arch that nobly spans the flood--
  And here have kings and hoary statesmen gazed,
    When spring with garlands deck'd the vale below,
  Or when the waning year had lightly razed
    The banks where Avon's lingering fountains flow.

  XI.

  And did no minstrel greet the courtly throng?
    Did no fair flower of English loveliness
  On timid lute sustain some artless song,
    Her meek brow bound with smooth unbraided tress?
  For Music knew not yet the stately guise,
    Content with simplest notes to touch the soul,
  Not from her choirs as when loud anthems rise,
    Or when she bids orchestral thunders roll!

  XII.

  Here too the deep and fervent orison
    Hath matron whisper'd for her absent lord,
  Peril'd in civil wars, that shook the throne,
    When every hand in England, clench'd the sword:--
  And here, as tales and chronicles agree,
    If tales and chronicles be deem'd sincere,
  Fair Warwick's heiress smiled at many a plea
    Of puissant Thane, or Norman cavalier.

  XIII.

  Or dost thou sigh for theme of classic lore
    Midst arms and moats, and battlements and towers?
  Behold the Vase! that, erst on Anio's shore,
    Hath found a splendid home in Warwick's bowers:
  To British meads ere yet the Saxon came,
    The pomp of senates swept its pedestal,
  And kings of many an Oriental name
    Have seen its shadow, and are perish'd all!

  XIV.

  Haply it stood on that illustrious ground
    Where circling columns once, in sculptur'd pride,
  With fine volute or wreath'd acanthus crown'd,
    Rear'd some light roof by Anio's plunging tide;
  There, in the brightness of the votive fane
    To rural or to vintage gods addrest,
  Those vine clad symbols of Pan's peaceful reign
    Amidst dark pines their sacred seats possess'd.

  XV.

  Or, did it break with soft and silvery shower
    The silence of some marble solitude,
  Where Adrian, at the fire fly's glittering hour,
    Of rumour'd worlds to come the doubts review'd?
  Go mark his tomb!--in that sepulchral mole
    Scowls the fell bandit:--from its towering height
  Old Tiber's flood reflects the girandole,
    Midst bells, and shouts, and rockets' arrowy flight!

  XVI.

  Warwick, farewell! Long may thy fortunes stand,
    And sires of sires hold rule within thy walls,
  Thy streaming banners to the breeze expand,
    And the heart's griefs pass lightly o'er thy halls!
  May happier bards, on Avon's sedgy shore,
    Sustain on nobler lyre thy poet's vow,
  And all thy future lords (what can they more?)
    Wear the green laurels of thy fame, as now!

    [6] These lines will form a beautiful pendant to the picturesque
        Engraving of WARWICK CASTLE, in No. 357 of the MIRROR--as well as
        to the very interesting antiquarian description by our esteemed
        correspondent L.L.

NOTES.

One of the towers of Warwick Castle is complimented with the name of Guy's Tower; certain ponderous
armour and utensils preserved in the lodge are also attributed to Guy; nobody, in short, thinks
of Guy without Warwick, or of Warwick without Guy; "Arms and the Man" ought to have been emblazoned
on the castle banner; and why should I hesitate to say, that one of the most amiable of children
perpetuates the heroic name within its walls? Had this renowned adventurer been ambitious of
patriarchal honours, his descendants might have extended the ancestral renown, and have furnished
many a ballad of those good old times; but when the Saxon Ulysses had returned from his pilgrimage
to Jerusalem, and made an end of Colbrand and the Dun Cow, his fancy was to take alms in disguise
from his own fair lady, at his own castle gate, and then retire (tous les goúts sont respectables)
to a certain hole or cave called Guy's Cliff, where he amused himself (in the intervals of
rheumatism) for the rest of his natural life in counting his beads and ruminating on his sins,
which, as he was a great traveller and a hero, might have been considerable.

STANZA III.

The following interesting passage is copied from a book of ordinary occurrence, in which it
is cited without stating the authority. It is more than doubtful if any other nobleman in the
kingdom, at that time or since, has projected or executed so much on his own property as the
late Earl of Warwick:--

"I purchased a magnificent collection of pictures by Vandyke, Rubens, &c. The marbles are not
equalled, perhaps, in the kingdom. I made a noble approach to the castle through a solid rock,
built a porter's lodge, and founded a library full of books, some valuable and scarce, all
well chosen. I made an armoury, and built walls round the court and pleasure gardens. I built
a noble green-house, and filled it with beautiful plants. I placed in it a vase, considered
the finest remain of Grecian art, for its size and beauty. I made a noble lake, from 3 to 600
feet broad, and a mile long. I planted trees, now worth 100,000l., besides 100 acres of ash.
I built a stone bridge of 105 feet in span, every stone from 2,000 to 3,800 lbs in weight.
The weight of the first tier on the centre was estimated at 1,000 tons. I gave the bridge to
the town with no toll on it. I will not enumerate a great many other things done by me. Let
Warwick Castle speak for itself."

STANZA X.

There is a feeling of respect inspired by ancient buildings of importance. Such a castle as
Warwick, which has lodged a succession of generations of the most opposite characters--at one
time the "dulcis et quieti animi vir, et qui, cougruo suis moribus studio, vitam egit et clausit;"
at another by the assassin of Piers de Gaveston, the king's favourite, "whose head he cut off
upon Blacklow Hill, and gave the friars preachers the charge of his body, inasmuch as he had
called the said earl the Black Dog of Arderne"--is not to be approached as one visits a handsome
stone house of Palladian architecture!--such a house we know can never have been the scene
either of council or conspiracy; within such walls there can never have been "latens odium
inter regem et proceres, et præsecipuè inter comitem de Warwick et adhærentes ejusdem."

As to the river and its swans. I have learned from the bard to whom it has been long since
consecrated, (although he may not have had the right of fishing in it when alive,) that "discretion
is the better part of valour."

If I were to describe the walks, I should only say that they were contrived, as all walks ought
to be, to let in the sun or to shut him out by turns. Here you rejoice in the fulness of his
meridian strength, and here in the shadows of various depth and intensity, which a well disposed
and happily contrasted sylvan population knows how to effect. The senatorial oak, the spreading
sycamore, the beautiful plane, (which I never see without recollecting the channel of the Asopus
and the woody sides of Oeta,) the aristocratic pine running up in solitary stateliness till
it equal the castle turrets--all these, and many more, are admirably intermingled and contrasted,
in plantations which establish, as every thing in and about the castle does, the consummate
taste of the late earl, although it must be admitted he had the finest subjects to work upon,
from the happy disposition of the ground. I shall never forget the first time I walked over
them; a pheasant occasionally shifting his quarters at my intrusion, and making his noisy way
through an ether so clear, so pure, so motionless, that the broad leaves subsided, rather than
fell to the ground, without the least disturbance; the tall grey chimneys just breathing their
smoke upon the blue element, which they scarcely stained; every green thing was beginning to
wear the colour of decay, and many a tint of yellow, deepening into orange, made me sensible
that "there be tongues in trees," if not "good in every thing." But Montaigne says nothing
is useless, not even inutility itself.

STANZA XIII.

This superb work of antiquity must indeed be seen, to be sufficiently estimated: the great
failure of that branch of the fine arts which is employed to represent all the rest, is in
the inadequate idea of size which it must necessarily give where the objects to be represented
are large.

The marble vases now extant are, of course, comparatively few in number, and this is, perhaps,
excepting the Medicean, the finest of them all. The best representations of it are those in
Piranesi, three in number. One great, and conspicuous beauty of this vase consists in the elegantly
formed handles, and in the artful insertion of the extreme branches of the vine-stems which
compose them, into its margin, where they throw off a rich embroidery of leaves and fruit.
A lion's skin, with the head and claws attached, form a sort of drapery, and the introduction
of the thyrsus, the lituus, and three bacchanalian masks on each side, complete the embellishments.
The capacity of this vase is 103 gallons, its diameter 9 feet, its pedestal of course modern.
It was discovered in 1770, in the draining of a mephitic lake within the enclosure of the Villa
Adriana, called Laga di Pantanello. Lord Warwick had reason to be proud of his vase, which
had this peculiarity, that, whereas almost every other object of art in the kingdom has been
catalogued and sold over and over again, this vase passed (after a sufficiently long parenthesis
of time) immediately from the gardens of Adrian to his own!

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Manners & Customs of all Nations.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEAVING.

(For the Mirror.)

They have a ludicrous custom in Staffordshire, at Easter, which they call heaving. The males
claim Easter Monday, and the females Tuesday, and on this day a group of the latter assemble,
and every male they meet with they seize, and one of them salutes him with a kiss, after which
they all lay hold of him and heave him up as high as they can, for this they require some donation,
which, if refused, they will seize his hat, handkerchief, or any thing they can lay hold of.
This lasts till twelve o'clock. Sometimes old women collect together, and then woe be to the
person who does not present them with a trifle, and thus stop their proceedings; for if not,
their snuffy beaks might come in contact with their prisoners' lips. They often collect 10
or 12s. and spend it in carousing at night.

W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVICTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES.

The regular hours of work are from sun-rise to sun-set; but so few settlers get up to see that
this time is kept, that a much shorter period is generally employed in labour. The expense
of maintaining a convict is rather a difficult calculation: where there are many men, they
are, of course, supported at much less per man than where there are but few, from being able
to buy slop clothes, tea, and the other necessaries, at wholesale prices, of the importing
merchant. The waste, also, made by the convicts in their meat, &c. is a serious consideration:
the head and entrails of animals slaughtered for their use, and which an English labourer would
be glad of, are thrown away as only fit for the dogs; nothing but the body and legs are deemed
sufficiently good for these dainty characters. Taking all expenses into consideration, I think
that from 25l. to 30l. per man may be estimated as the annual cost--Widowson's Present State
of Van Dieman's Land.

       *       *       *       *       *

THROWING STONES AT THE DEVIL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COACHMAN.

The moment he has got his seat and made his start, you are struck at once with the perfect
mastership of his art. The hand just over his left thigh, the arm without constraint, steady,
and with a holding command that keeps his horses like clock-work; yet to a superficial observer
quite with loose reins; so firm and compact he is, that you seldom observe any shifting, only
to take a shorter purchase for a run down hill; his right hand and whip are beautifully in
unison; the crop, if not in a direct line with the box, over the near wheel, raised gracefully
up as it were to reward the near side horse; the thong--the thong after three twists, which
appears in his hand to have been placed by the maker never to be altered or improved ......
and if the off-side horse becomes slack, to see the turn of his arm to reduce a twist, or to
reverse, if necessary, is exquisite: after being placed under the rib, or upon the shoulder
point, up comes the arm, and with it the thong returns to the elegant position upon the crop!
I say elegant! the stick, highly polished yew--rather light--not too taper--yet elastic; a
thong in clean order, pliable. All done without effort--merely a turn of the wrist!

       *       *       *       *       *

At twelve o'clock at noon, on the day before Easter, the resurrection service begins at the
Quirinal Chapel at Rome; when a curtain is drawn back, which conceals a picture of our Lord:
bells ring, drums are beaten, guns are fired, and joy succeeds to mourning.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACROSTIC ON "THE MIRROR."

  MIRROR! methinks your name indeed is true
  In every other point, except that you,
  Resplendent with the wisdom of mankind,
  Reflect not to the sight, but to the mind.
  Oh! may success then to your pains accrue,
  Rewarding all your merit with its due.

D.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE.

  Love reigns the lord of every mortal heart;
  He wounds the beggar, wounds the king,
  And is the fairest, falsest thing,
  That e'er excited joy, or bade a bosom smart.
  Light as the wind, rough as the wave,
  He's both a tyrant and a slave;
  A fire that freezes, and a frost that's hot,
  A bitter sweet, a luscious sour,
  Wretched is he who knows his pow'r,
  But far more wretched still is he who knows it not.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRUTH, A FABLE.

At the gates of Sorbonne, Truth one day showed her face. The syndic met her. "What," said he,
"do you want?" "Alas! hospitality." "Your name?" "My name is Truth." "Flee," said he, in anger,
"flee, or I seek vengeance on your profaneness." "You chase me away," answered Truth; "but
I live in hope to have my turn, being the spoiled child of Time, and gaining every thing by
the means of my father."

       *       *       *       *       *

The initial letters of the Latin names of the kings of Bonaparte's family form the Latin word
Nihil, (nothing;) and this used to be called the genealogical acrostic:

  L udovicus.
  I osephus.
  H ieronymus.
  I oachim.
  N apoleo.

T.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUBTERFUGE.

  "I vow, my dear Strephon," said Chloe one day,
    While Damon lay hid in the bower,
  "Yon sun that now gazes shall see a kiss given
    To no one but thee from this hour."

  Now Strephon is gone--and with mournful eye
    Poor Damon upbraided the fair.
  "Hush! blockhead," said Chloe, "the sun's now on high,
    But d'ye think it will always be there?"

