   As to the evil will, of course there is an evil will in Prussia.
   Prussia isn't Paradise. I have been fighting that evil will, in
   myself and others, all my life. It is the will of the brave Barabbas,
   and of the militant Nationalists who admired him and crucified the
   pro-Gentile. But the Prussians must save their own souls. They also
   have their Shaws and Chestertons and a divine spark in them for these
   to work on. . . . What we have to do is to make ridiculous the cry of
   "Vengeance is mine, saith Podsnap," and, whenever anyone tells an
   Englishman a lie, to explain to the poor devil that it is a lie, and
   that he must stop cheering it as a splendid speech. For an Englishman
   never compares speeches either with facts or with previous speeches:
   to him a speech is art for art's sake, the disciples of our favoured
   politicians being really, if they only knew it, disciples of
   Whistler. Also, and equally important, we have to bear in mind that
   the English genius does not, like the German, lie in disciplined
   idealism. The Englishman is an Anarchist and a grumbler: he has no
   such word as Fatherland, and the idea which he supposes corresponds
   to it is nothing but the swing of a roaring chorus to a patriotic
   song. Also he is a muddler and a slacker, because tense and
   continuous work means thought; and he is lazy and fat in the head.
   But as long as he is himself, and grumbles, it does not matter. Given
   a furious Opposition screaming for the disgrace of tyrannical and
   corrupt ministers, and a press on the very verge of inviting Napoleon
   to enter London in triumph and deliver a groaning land from the
   intolerable burden of its native rulers' incapacity and rapacity and
   obsolescence, and the departments will work as well as the enemy's
   departments (perhaps better), and the government will have to keep
   its wits at full pressure. But once let England try what she is
   trying now: that is, to combine the devoted silence and obedience of
   the German system with the slack and muddle of Coodle and Doodle, and
   we are lost. Unless you keep up as hot a fire from your ink-bottle on
   the Government as the soldier keeps up from the trenches you are
   betraying that soldier. Of course they will call you a pro-German.
   What of that? They call ME a pro-German. We also must stand fire. As
   Peer Gynt said of hell, if the torture is only moral, it cannot be so
   very bad.

   I grieve to say that some fool has stolen my title, and issued a
   two page pamphlet called Uncommon Sense about the War. So I shall
   have to call mine More Common Sense About the War. It is not yet in
   type: I haven't yet quite settled its destination. Any chance of
   seeing you both if we drive over from Ayot to Beaconsfield some
   Sunday or other afternoon.

   Yours ever,

   G.B.S.

Wells too was rejoicing over his recovery--

   DEAR OLD G.K.C.,

   I'm so delighted to get a letter from you again. As soon as I can I
   will come to Beaconsfield and see you. I'm absurdly busy in bringing
   together the Rulers of the country and the scientific people of whom
   they are totally ignorant. Lloyd George has never heard of
   Ramsey--and so on, and the hash and muddle and quackery on our
   technical side is appalling. It all means boys' lives in Flanders and
   horrible waste and suffering. Well, anyhow if we've got only obscure
   and cramped and underpaid scientific men we have a bench of fine fat
   bishops and no end of tremendous lawyers. One of the best ideas for
   the Ypres position came from Robert Mond but the execution was too
   difficult for our officers to attempt. So we've got a row of wounded
   and mangled men that would reach from Beaconsfield to Great
   Marlow--just to show we don't take stock in these damned scientific
   people.

   Yours ever,

   H.G.

No one however mad could have called Gilbert a pro-German: it was perhaps the only accusation
the New Witness escaped. But while he largely agreed with Shaw's analysis of the Englishman
as a natural Anarchist and grumbler, while he believed in the voluntary principle and disliked
conscription, his general outlook was as different from Shaw's as were the pamphlets they both
wrote.

In a book addressed to a German professor G.K. frankly confessed the real Crimes of England,
for which she was now making reparation.

To any Englishman living in the native atmosphere the suggestion that England had been preparing
an aggression against Germany seemed more than faintly ludicrous. We were not engaged in plotting
in Europe--on the contrary we were far too careless of Europe. And the funds of the Liberal
Party (which was in power) actually depended chiefly on Quaker Millionaires who were noted
pacifists and at whose bidding national honour was jeopardised by our delay in declaring our
support of France. We were not prepared for war and probably only the shock of the invasion
of Belgium made certain our stand with France.

   . . . It may seem an idle contradiction to say that our strength in
   this war came from not being prepared. But there is a truth that
   cannot be otherwise expressed. The strongest thing in sane anger is
   surprise. If we had time to think we might have thought better--that
   is worse. Everything that could be instinctive managed to be strong;
   the instant fury of contempt with which the better spirit in our
   rulers flung back the Prussian bribe; the instant solidarity of all
   parties; above all, the brilliant instinct by which the Irish leader
   cast into the scale of a free Europe the ancient sword of Ireland.*

[* The Uses of Diversity.]

Our crimes were in the past, not the present. The first had been when we gave aid to Prussia
against Austria, Austria which was "not a nation" but "a kind of Empire, a Holy Roman Empire
that never came," which "still retained something of the old Catholic comfort for the soul."
We had helped to put Prussia instead of Austria at the head of the Germanies--Prussia which
in the person of Frederick the Great "hated everything German and everything good." Francophile
as Chesterton was, he yet had a certain tenderness for those old Germanies which "preserved
the good things that go with small interests and strict boundaries, music, etiquette, a dreamy
philosophy and so on."

Our next crimes had been in calling Prussia to our aid against Napoleon and in failing to assist
Denmark against her. And by far our worst had been the using of Prussian mercenaries with their
ghastly tradition of cruelty in Ireland in the '98.

There is in this little book one drawback from the historian's point of view: its view of the
past is so oddly selective. Doubtless it is lawful to examine your own nation's conscience
as you do your own--and not your neighbour's. Yet history should be rather an examination of
facts than an examination of conscience. And historically Richelieu's policies had had quite
something to say in the creation of Prussia; the conscript armies of the French Revolution
had first made Europe into an armed camp. It was an undue simplification to insist exclusively
on The Crimes of England.

But even while he did so Chesterton rejoiced that now at long last England was on the right
side, on the side of Europe and of sanity. The New Witness group had always seen the issue
as their countrymen were now suddenly beginning to see it. They had no sympathy with the "liberal"
thinking, made in Germany, that had in the name of biblical and historical criticism been undermining
the bases of Christianity. Their love of logic and of clarity had made German philosophy intolerable
to them--it was wind, and it was fog. Finally their love of France had always made them conceive
of Europe as centering in that country. For them there was one profound satisfaction even amid
the horrors of war: that the issues were so clear.

But were they as clear to the whole world? If not they must be made so.

There were two main problems to be overcome in this matter, one of which was less pronounced
at the time than it became later--the economic interpretation of history. Started by Karl Marx
the idea that all history can be interpreted solely by economic causes has come since to have
an extraordinary popularity even among those whose own philosophy and sociology are most widely
removed from Marx. It is a view which Chesterton would always have dismissed with the contempt
it deserves. Both he and Belloc saw as the determining factor in history, because it is the
determining factor in human life, the free will of man. This does not mean that they would
deny that the economic factor has often been powerful in conquering man's liberty, or a motive
in its exercise. But Chesterton regarded the present age as a diseased one precisely because
the money motive held so disproportionate a place in it. He looked back to the past and saw
the world of today as almost unique in that respect. He looked forward to the future and hoped
for a release from it.

And as he looked back into the past he saw something in the history of mankind far stronger
than the economic motive--whether that mean the strife for wealth or the mere struggle for
subsistence. He saw the all-pervading power of religion, which in bygone ages had presided
over man's activities and turned the exercise of that most noble faculty free-will to the building
of a civilization today undreamed of.

But in 1914 it was easier to get away from the economic interpretation of history than it was
to overcome another difficulty in the minds of those who had not the Chesterton vision of Europe,
and to whom it seemed that in a war between nations it was extremely likely that all parties
were more or less equally to blame. "History," said Chesterton, "tends to be a façade of faded
picturesqueness for most of those who have not specially studied it: a more or less monochrome
background for the drama of their own day." But the nature of that background and the vision
of today's drama will vary with the varying angle of historic vision.

There were two possible meanings for the statement that all nations were to blame for the world
war. All nations had gone away from God. Motives of personal and national greed had ousted
the old ideal of Christendom. It might roughly be said that no nation was seriously trying
to seek the Kingdom of God and His Justice. International Finance had become a shadow resting
on all the earth, and it could not have got this power if Governments had been governing solely
for the good of their peoples. "Bow down your heads before God," is the invocation constantly
used in the Missal during the penitential season of Lent and the government of every nation
needed this call to repentance.

With this interpretation Chesterton would have agreed. All nations were to blame for the predisposing
causes that made a world-war possible. But when we come to the question of actual responsibility
for making this particular war, the statement means something very different and something
with which Chesterton was prepared to join issue. Against him those who disliked France or
England, and saw the history of those two countries as a history of Imperialism, were saying:
if Germany had not attacked France, France would have attacked Germany; or: England would have
been equally treacherous if it had paid her--look at the Treaty of Limerick.

Chesterton kept imploring people simply to look at the facts. Germany had in fact broken her
word to France and attacked her. France had not attacked Germany. Germany had invaded Belgium.
Discussing divorce he claims as essential to manhood the right to bind oneself and to be taken
at one's word. The marriage vow was almost the only vow that remained out of the whole mediaeval
conception of chivalry and he could not endure to see it set at nought. But even in the modern
world there still remained some notion of the sacredness of a solemn promise. The vow is to
the man what the song is to the bird, or the bark to the dog; his voice whereby he is known."*
There were two chief marks whereby it seemed to Chesterton that the Prussian invasion of Belgium
was fundamentally an attack on civilization. Contempt for a promise was the first. He called
it the war on the word.

[* Ibid., 32-33.]

The other mark of barbarism he called the refusal of reciprocity. Thus the Kaiser at once violated
the Hague Convention openly himself and wrote to the President of the United States to complain
that the Allies were violating it. "For this principle of a quite unproved racial supremacy
is the last and worst of the refusals of reciprocity."**

[* Ibid., 37.]

[* Ibid., p. 60.]

If these two ideas were allowed to prevail they must destroy civilization and so to Chesterton
the war was a crusade and, to his profound joy, was understood as such by the people of England.
The democratic spirit of our country "is rather unusually sluggish and far below the surface.
And the most genuine and purely popular movement that we have had since the Chartists has been
the enlistment for this war." Chesterton loved the heroic humour of the trenches: the cry of
"Early Doors" from the boys rushing on death; the term Blighty for England and congratulations
on a severe wound as a "good Blighty one"; the song under showers of bullets, "When It's Raining
Keep Your Umbrella Up." The English, he once said, had no religion left except their sense
of humour but I think he meant that they hung out humour somewhat defiantly as a smoke-screen
for other things.

Anyhow he doubted neither that the war was worth winning nor that it could be won by our soldiers
and sailors. And with the soldiers and sailors stood the munition workers and the Trades Unions
which had sacrificed their cherished rights for the war period. If the only danger to England
was on the Home Front it was not, in his eyes, to be found in the mass of the nation. Nor was
he at first too apprehensive of the actions of the Government. Asquith and Sir Edward Grey
might have been slow in declaring war but both were patriotic Englishmen and with them stood
with equal patriotism the mass of the governing classes. If as has later been said the war
had really been brought about by English political and financial interests, it is strange that
Lord Desborough, head of the London house of J. P. Morgan and a leading financier of England,
should have lost his two elder sons and the Prime Minister his eldest.

But the New Witness did see two dangers at home which might jeopardise the success of our armies
in the field and bring about a premature and dishonourable peace. These were international
finance, and the Press magnates.

Nothing so reminds me of how we were all feeling about the Daily papers just then as finding
this letter to E. C. Bentley (dated July 20, 1915):

   I was delighted to hear from you though very sorry to hear you have
   been bad. I mean physically bad; morally and intellectually you have
   evidently been very good. Seriously, I think you have done something
   to save this country; for the Telegraph continues to be almost the
   only paper that the crisis has sobered and not tipsified. I take it
   in myself and know many others who do so. Part of the fun about
   'Armsworth is that quite a lot of old ladies of both sexes go about
   distinguishing elaborately between the Daily Mail and the Times.*
   It is a stagnant state of mind created in people who have never been
   forced by revolution or other public peril to distinguish between the
   things they are used to and the thoughts for which the things are
   supposed to stand. If you printed the whole of Ally Sloper's Half
   Holiday and called it the Athenaeum, they would read it with unmoved
   faces. So long as St. Paul's Cathedral stood in the usual place they
   would not mind if there was a Crescent on top of it instead of a
   Cross. By the way, I see the Germans have actually done what I
   described as a wild fancy in the Flying Inn; combined the Cross and
   the Crescent in one ornamental symbol. . . .

[* Both these papers were then owned by the same man--Alfred Harmsworth, who had become Lord
Northcliffe.]

I am inclined to think that the attack upon Harmsworth which the New Witness developed attributed
too much to purposed malice and did not allow enough for the journalistic craving for news
and for "scoops." Probably some of the posters and articles to which they objected were not
the work of Lord Northcliffe but of some young journalist anxious to sell his paper. Nevertheless
the New Witness attack was not only largely justified but was also remarkably courageous. The
staff of the New Witness were themselves journalists and men of letters. In both capacities
as powerful a newspaper owner as Lord Northcliffe could damage them severely--and did. Never
henceforward would any of them be able to write in one of his numerous papers, never would
one of their books receive a favourable review. For Belloc did not hesitate to call Lord Northcliffe
a traitor for the way in which he had attacked Kitchener, while Cecil amused himself by reviewing
and pointing out the illiteracy of that strange peer's own writing. Later too when the Harmsworth
papers were in full cry for the fall of Asquith and the substitution of Lloyd George, the New
Witness took a strong stand. They pointed out too the way in which censorship was exercised
against the smaller newspapers while the Northcliffe press seemed immune. Here was the fundamental
danger. Whatever the motive, some of the attacks and articles printed were undoubtedly calculated,
in military language, to cause alarm and despondency. It was appalling that in time of war
this should be permitted; and, as they saw it, permitted because the Harmsworth millions had
been used to secure a hold on certain politicians. To the New Witness "George" was simply Harmsworth's
man.

Meanwhile at Easter, 1916, came the awful tragedy of the Irish rising. Chesterton had fallen
into the sleep of his long illness soon after the splendid gesture in which Redmond had offered
the sword of Ireland to the allied cause. And there seems little doubt that in making this
offer Redmond had with him, for the last time, the people of Ireland. Recruiting began well
but that awful fate of stupidity that seems to overtake every Englishman dealing with Ireland
even now was overwhelming the two countries. Sir Francis Vane, an Irish officer in the British
Army, described in a series of articles in the New Witness the blunders made in the recruiting
campaign: such things as prominent Protestant Unionists being brought to the fore, national
sentiment discouraged, waving of Union Jacks, appeals to patriotism not for Ireland but for
England.

Vane himself found his attempt at recruiting on national lines unpopular with authority and
in the midst of his successful effort was recalled to England. Still, though recruiting slackened,
the cause of the Allies remained in Ireland the popular cause and the Easter Rising was the
work only of a handful of men. Its immediate cause was the fact that although the Home Rule
Bill had been passed and was on the Statute Book its operation was again deferred. All Irishmen
saw this as a breach of faith yet the majority were not at that time behind the rising. The
severity of its repression turned it almost overnight into a national cause and erected yet
another barrier against friendship between England and Ireland.

For this friendship Chesterton longed ardently and worked passionately, nor did he believe
the barriers insurmountable. He even held that there was between the people of the two countries
a natural amity. "There is something common to all the Britons, which even Acts of Union have
not torn asunder. The nearest name for it is insecurity, something fitting in men walking on
cliffs and the verge of things. Adventure, a lonely taste in liberty, a humour without wit,
perplex their critics and perplex themselves. Their souls are fretted like their coasts."*
The Irish and the English had suffered oppression at the same hands--those of the rulers of
England. If Prussian soldiers had been used against Irish peasants, so too had they been used
against English Chartists. A typical Englishman, William Cobbett, had suffered fine and long
imprisonment because of his protest against the flogging of an English soldier by a German
mercenary.

[* A Short History of England, p. 7.]

"Telling the truth about Ireland," wrote Chesterton, "is not very pleasant to a patriotic Englishman;
but it is very patriotic."* For the lack of the essential patriotism of admitting past sin
the rulers of England were perpetuating an evil that many of them sincerely desired to end.
For this was a case where the right road could only be found by retracing the steps of a long
road of wrong.

[* The Crimes of England, p. 57.]

Before the end of the war G.K. visited Ireland and in the book that he wrote after this visit
may be found his best analysis of all this matter. Ireland, he believed, was making a mistake
in not throwing herself into the cause of the defeat of Germany, not because she owed anything
to England but because of what Prussia was and of what Europe meant. Ireland had been the friend
of France and the enemy of Prussia long before England had been either; she would do well to
hold to her ancient allegiance.

It was true that Ireland had been betrayed by the Liberal promise of Home Rule--but the men
who betrayed her were the Marconi men! Redmond had made the great mistake of his career when
from motives of patriotism for Ireland he had helped the party hacks of the Government Committee
to whitewash these men, who had gone on to betray Ireland as they were then betraying England.
England too needed Home Rule. England too needed deliverance from her "degenerate and unworthy
governing class."

There are a few pages in Irish Impressions--now out of print-which find their place here in
illustration of what he meant by his championship of nationality:

   A brilliant writer . . . once propounded to me his highly personal
   and even perverse type of internationalism by saying, as a sort of
   unanswerable challenge, "Wouldn't you rather be ruled by Goethe than
   by Walter Long?" I replied that words could not express the wild love
   and loyalty I should feel for Mr. Walter Long, if the only
   alternative were Goethe. I could not have put my own national case in
   a clearer or more compact form. I might occasionally feel inclined to
   kill Mr. Long; but under the approaching shadow of Goethe, I should
   feel more inclined to kill myself. That is the deathly element in
   denationalisation; that it poisons life itself, the most real of all
   realities. . . .

Some people felt it an affectation that the Irish should put up their street signs in Gaelic
but G.K. defended it. "It is well to remember that these things, which we also walk past every
day, are exactly the sort of things that always have, in the nameless fashion, the national note."

   It is this sensation of stemming a stream, of ten thousand things
   all pouring one way, labels, titles, monuments, metaphors, modes of
   address, assumptions in controversy, that make an Englishman in
   Ireland know that he is in a strange land. Nor is he merely
   bewildered, as among a medley of strange things. On the contrary, if
   he has any sense, he soon finds them united and simplified to a
   single impression, as if he were talking to a strange person. He
   cannot define it, because nobody can define a person, and nobody can
   define a nation. He can only see it, smell it, hear it, handle it,
   bump into it, fall over it, kill it, be killed for it, or be damned
   for doing it wrong. He must be content with these mere hints of its
   existence; but he cannot define it, because it is like a person, and
   no book of logic will undertake to define Aunt Jane or Uncle William.
   We can only say, with more or less mournful conviction, that if Aunt
   Jane is not a person, there is no such thing as a person. And I say
   with equal conviction that if Ireland is not a nation, there is no
   such thing as a nation. . . .

*   *   *   *

In September 1916 Cecil Chesterton bade farewell to the New Witness. He was in the army as
a private in the East in the East Surreys, and G.K. took over the editorship.

   I like Chesterton's paper, the New Witness [wrote an American
   journalist in the New York Tribune (no, not yet Herald-Tribune)],
   since G.K.C. has taken it over. . . . Gilbert Chesterton seems to me
   the best thing England has produced since Dickens. . . . I like the
   things he believes in, and I hate sociological experts and
   prohibitionists and Uhlan officers, which are the things he hates. I
   feel in him that a very honest man is speaking. . . . I like his
   impudence to Northcliffe. . . . As a journalist Chesterton gets only
   about a quarter of himself into action. But even a quarter of
   Chesterton is good measure. . . . He works very hard at his
   journalism. That is why he doesn't do it as well as his careless
   things, which give him fun. But for all that there is no other
   editorial page in England or the United States written with the snap,
   wit and honest humanity of his paragraphs. I hope he won't blunt
   himself by overwork. It would be an international loss if that sane,
   jolly mind is bent to routine. England has need of him.

The overwork and the high quality of it were alike undeniable, but after the long repose of
his illness G.K. seemed like a giant refreshed and ready to run his course. Each week's New
Witness had an Editorial, besides the paragraphs of which the New York Tribune speaks (not
all of these however written by himself), and a signed article under the suggestive general
heading "At the Sign of the World's End." The difference between articles and a real book,
and the degree of work needed to turn the one into the other, may be seen if the essays on
Marriage in the paper be compared with The Superstition of Divorce for which they furnished
material, and those on Ireland with Irish Impressions. There were besides very many articles
in other papers English and American and he was also writing his History of England.

If all Englishmen had kept the same unwavering gaze at reality as Chesterton much of what he
called "the rather feeble-minded reaction" that followed the war might have been avoided and
with it the advent of Hitler. Particularly he opposed the tendency to call "Kaiserism" what
is now called "Hitlerism" and should always be called Prussianism. While agreeing that care
should be taken not to write of German atrocities that could not be substantiated he insisted
that there was no ground for forgetting or ignoring the findings of the American enquiry in
Belgium which had established more than enough. These horrors, the bombing of civilians, shelling
of open towns and sinking of passenger ships culminating with the Lusitania, were in the main
what brought America into the war. Here, as with England, Chesterton did not admit as primary
what has since been so exclusively stressed--the economic motive. Here as with England he took
the volunteer army as one great proof of the will of a Nation. And those of us who remember
can testify that in America as in England the will of the people was ahead of the decision
of the politicians.

On one point Chesterton's articles have a special interest: the question of reprisals. When
the Germans broke yet another of the promises of the Hague Convention and initiated the use
of poison gas there was much discussion as to the ethics of reprisals and G.K. used against
reprisals two arguments one of which was a rare example of a fallacy in his arguments. If a
wasp stings you, he said, you do not sting back. No, we might reply, but you squash it--you
have as a man an advantage over a wasp and so do not need to use its own weapons to defeat it.

His other argument is far more powerful--is indeed overwhelming. If you use, even as reprisals,
unlawful weapons, it is harder to prove you did not initiate them. And I remember well another
feeling at the time expressed by G.K. which was I believe that of the majority of English people--if
we use these things, if we accept the Prussian gospel of "frightfulness" then spiritually we
have lost the war. Spiritually Prussia has conquered: as she has engulfed the old Germanies
and, first imposing her rule, then gained acceptance of her ideas, so it may be with us. Ideas
are everything and the barbarians destroy more with ideas even than by material weapons, horrible
as these may be.

Inclined at first to hope for the fruits of democracy from the Russian revolution Chesterton
was soon being reproached by H. G. Wells for "dirty" suspiciousness about the Bolshevik leaders
and their motives. But the collapse of Russia and the defeat of Rumania alike only strengthened
the necessity of the fight to a finish with Prussia that became as the months passed the absorbing
aim of the New Witness. In the treaties respectively of Brest-Litovsk and Bukarest Germany
imposed upon these two countries incredibly harsh terms.

Thus wrote the New Witness after the Treaty of Bukarest:

