Transcriber's Note: Italicized text is indicated with underscores. Upright text used within
italicized passages for emphasis is indicated with +plus signs+. Blackletter text in the original
is shown here within \back slashes\. Greek has been transliterated and is shown as #word#.

Inconsistent or archaic spelling, punctuation, and capitalization have been retained as printed.
The spacing of chapters and sections matches that of the physical book, and no attempt has
been made to match the Table of Contents. A few obvious misprints, such as missing letters
or spaces, have been corrected. They are listed at the end of this document, along with more
detailed notes about this transcription.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Library of Old Authors.

INTRODUCTION.

The two very rare works reprinted in the present volume, written by two of the most celebrated
of the early American divines, relate to one of the most extraordinary cases of popular delusion
that modern times have witnessed. It was a delusion, moreover, to which men of learning and
piety lent themselves, and thus became the means of increasing it. The scene of this affair
was the puritanical colony of New England, since better known as Massachusetts, the colonists
of which appear to have carried with them, in an exaggerated form, the superstitious feelings
with regard to witchcraft which then prevailed in the mother country. In the spring of 1692
an alarm of witchcraft was raised in the family of the minister of Salem, and some black servants
were charged with the supposed crime. Once started, the alarm spread rapidly, and in a very
short time a great number of people fell under suspicion, and many were thrown into prison
on very frivolous grounds, supported, as such charges usually were, by very unworthy witnesses.
The new governor of the colony, Sir William Phipps, arrived from England in the middle of May,
and he seems to have been carried away by the excitement, and authorized judicial prosecutions.
The trials began at the commencement of June; and the first victim, a woman named Bridget Bishop,
was hanged. Governor Phipps, embarrassed by this extraordinary state of things, called in the
assistance of the clergy of Boston.

There was at this time in Boston a distinguished family of puritanical ministers of the name
of Mather. Richard Mather, an English non-conformist divine, had emigrated to America in 1636,
and settled at Dorchester, where, in 1639, he had a son born, who was named, in accordance
with the peculiar nomenclature of the puritans, Increase Mather. This son distinguished himself
much by his acquirements as a scholar and a theologian, became established as a minister in
Boston, and in 1685 was elected president of Harvard College. His son, born at Boston in 1663,
and called from the name of his mother's family, Cotton Mather, became more remarkable than
his father for his scholarship, gained also a distinguished position in Harvard College, and
was also, at the time of which we are speaking, a minister of the gospel in Boston. Cotton
Mather had adopted all the most extreme notions of the puritanical party with regard to witchcraft,
and he had recently had an opportunity of displaying them. In the summer of the year 1688,
the children of a mason of Boston named John Goodwin were suddenly seized with fits and strange
afflictions, which were at once ascribed to witchcraft, and an Irish washerwoman named Glover,
employed by the family, was suspected of being the witch. Cotton Mather was called in to witness
the sufferings of Goodwin's children; and he took home with him one of them, a little girl,
who had first displayed these symptoms, in order to examine her with more care. The result
was, that the Irish woman was brought to a trial, found guilty, and hanged; and Cotton Mather
published next year an account of the case, under the title of "Late Memorable Providences,
relating to Witchcraft and Possession," which displays a very extraordinary amount of credulity,
and an equally great want of anything like sound judgment. This work, no doubt, spread the
alarm of witchcraft through the whole colony, and had some influence on the events which followed.
It may be supposed that the panic which had now arisen in Salem was not likely to be appeased
by the interference of Cotton Mather and his father.

The execution of the washerwoman, Bridget Bishop, had greatly increased the excitement; and
people in a more respectable position began to be accused. On the 19th of July five more persons
were executed, and five more experienced the same fate on the 19th of August. Among the latter
was Mr. George Borroughs, a minister of the gospel, whose principal crime appears to have been
a disbelief in witchcraft itself. His fate excited considerable sympathy, which, however, was
checked by Cotton Mather, who was present at the place of execution on horseback, and addressed
the crowd, assuring them that Borroughs was an impostor. Many people, however, had now become
alarmed at the proceedings of the prosecutors, and among those executed with Borroughs was
a man named John Willard, who had been employed to arrest the persons charged by the accusers,
and who had been accused himself, because, from conscientious motives, he refused to arrest
any more. He attempted to save himself by flight; but he was pursued and overtaken. Eight more
of the unfortunate victims of this delusion were hanged on the 22nd of September, making in
all nineteen who had thus suffered, besides one who, in accordance with the old criminal law
practice, had been pressed to death for refusing to plead. The excitement had indeed risen
to such a pitch that two dogs accused of witchcraft were put to death.

A certain degree of reaction, however, appeared to be taking place, and the magistrates who
had conducted the proceedings began to be alarmed, and to have some doubts of the wisdom of
their proceedings. Cotton Mather was called upon by the governor to employ his pen in justifying
what had been done; and the result was, the book which stands first in the present volume,
"The Wonders of the Invisible World;" in which the author gives an account of seven of the
trials at Salem, compares the doings of the witches in New England with those in other parts
of the world, and adds an elaborate dissertation on witchcraft in general. This book was published
at Boston, Massachusetts, in the month of October, 1692. Other circumstances, however, contributed
to throw discredit on the proceedings of the court, though the witch mania was at the same
time spreading throughout the whole colony. In this same month of October, the wife of Mr.
Hale, minister of Beverley, was accused, although no person of sense and respectability had
the slightest doubt of her innocence; and her husband had been a zealous promoter of the prosecutions.
This accusation brought a new light on the mind of Mr. Hale, who became convinced of the injustice
in which he had been made an accomplice; but the other ministers who took the lead in the proceedings
were less willing to believe in their own error; and equally convinced of the innocence of
Mrs. Hale, they raised a question of conscience, whether the devil could not assume the shape
of an innocent and pious person, as well as of a wicked person, for the purpose of afflicting
his victims. The assistance of Increase Mather, the president or principal of Harvard College,
was now called in, and he published the book which is also reprinted in the present volume:
"A Further Account of the Tryals of the New England Witches.... To which is added Cases of
Conscience concerning Witchcrafts and Evil Spirits personating Men." It will be seen that the
greater part of the "Cases of Conscience" is given to the discussion of the question just alluded
to, which Increase Mather unhesitatingly decides in the affirmative. The scene of agitation
was now removed from Salem to Andover, where a great number of persons were accused of witchcraft
and thrown into prison, until a justice of the peace named Bradstreet, to whom the accusers
applied for warrants, refused to grant any more. Hereupon they cried out upon Bradstreet, and
declared that he had killed nine persons by means of witchcraft; and he was so much alarmed
that he fled from the place. The accusers aimed at people in higher positions in society, until
at last they had the audacity to cry out upon the lady of governor Phipps himself, and thus
lost whatever countenance he had given to their proceedings out of respect to the two Mathers.
Other people of character, when they were attacked by the accusers, took energetic measures
in self-defence. A gentleman of Boston, when "cried out upon," obtained a writ of arrest against
his accusers on a charge of defamation, and laid the damages at a thousand pounds. The accusers
themselves now took fright, and many who had made confessions retracted them, while the accusations
themselves fell into discredit. When governor Phipps was recalled in April, 1693, and left
for England, the witchcraft agitation had nearly subsided, and people in general had become
convinced of their error and lamented it.

But Cotton Mather and his father persisted obstinately in the opinions they had published,
and looked upon the reactionary feeling as a triumph of Satan and his kingdom. In the course
of the year they had an opportunity of reasserting their belief in the doings of the witches
of Salem. A girl of Boston, named Margaret Rule, was seized with convulsions, in the course
of which she pretended to see the "shapes" or spectres of people exactly as they were alleged
to have been seen by the witch-accusers at Salem and Andover. This occurred on the 10th of
September, 1693; and she was immediately visited by Cotton Mather, who examined her, and declared
his conviction of the truth of her statements. Had it depended only upon him, a new and no
doubt equally bitter persecution of witches would have been raised in Boston; but an influential
merchant of that town, named Robert Calef, took the matter up in a different spirit, and also
examined Margaret Rule, and satisfied himself that the whole was a delusion or imposture. Calef
wrote a rational account of the events of these two years, 1692 and 1693, exposing the delusion,
and controverting the opinions of the two Mathers on the subject of witchcraft, which was published
under the title of "More Wonders of the Invisible World; or the Wonders of the Invisible world
displayed in five parts. An Account of the Sufferings of Margaret Rule collected by Robert
Calef, merchant of Boston in New England." The partisans of the Mathers displayed their hostility
to this book by publicly burning it; and the Mathers themselves kept up the feeling so strongly
that years afterwards, when Samuel Mather, the son of Cotton, wrote his father's life, he says
sneeringly of Calef: "There was a certain disbeliever in Witchcraft who wrote against this
book" (his father's 'Wonders of the Invisible World'), "but as the man is dead, his book died
long before him." Calef died in 1720.

The witchcraft delusion had, however, been sufficiently dispelled to prevent the recurrence
of any other such persecutions; and those who still insisted on their truth were restrained
to the comparatively harmless publication and defence of their opinions. The people of Salem
were humbled and repentant. They deserted their minister, Mr. Paris, with whom the persecution
had begun, and were not satisfied until they had driven him away from the place. Their remorse
continued through several years, and most of the people concerned in the judicial proceedings
proclaimed their regret. The jurors signed a paper expressing their repentance, and pleading
that they had laboured under a delusion. What ought to have been considered still more conclusive,
many of those who had confessed themselves witches, and had been instrumental in accusing others,
retracted all they had said, and confessed that they had acted under the influence of terror.
Yet the vanity of superior intelligence and knowledge was so great in the two Mathers that
they resisted all conviction. In his Magnalia, an ecclesiastical history of New England, published
in 1700, Cotton Mather repeats his original view of the doings of Satan in Salem, showing no
regret for the part he had taken in this affair, and making no retraction of any of his opinions.
Still later, in 1723, he repeats them again in the same strain in the chapter of the "Remarkables"
of his father entitled "Troubles from the Invisible World." His father, Increase Mather, had
died in that same year at an advanced age, being in his eighty-fifth year. Cotton Mather died
on the 13th of February, 1728.

Whatever we may think of the credulity of these two ecclesiastics, there can be no ground for
charging them with acting otherwise than conscientiously, and they had claims on the gratitude
of their countrymen sufficient to overbalance their error of judgment on this occasion. Their
books relating to the terrible witchcraft delusion at Salem have now become very rare in the
original editions, and their interest, as remarkable monuments of the history of superstition,
make them well worthy of a reprint.

THE CONTENTS.                                           174

    Remarks upon the Three Remarkable Assaults of Temptations
        which the Devil visibly made upon our Lord                 175

            The First Temptation                                   175

            The Second Temptation                                  183

            The Third Temptation                                   192

  A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE TRYALS OF THE NEW-ENGLAND
  WITCHES:--

    A True Narrative, collected by Deodat Lawson, relating to
        Sundry Persons afflicted by Witchcraft, from the 19th
        of March to the 5th of April, 1692                         201

    Remarks of Things more than Ordinary about the Afflicted
        Persons                                                    211

    Remarks concerning the Accused                                 212

    A Further Account of the Tryals of the New-England
        Witches, sent in a Letter from thence, to a Gentleman
        in London                                                  214

  CASES OF CONSCIENCE CONCERNING EVIL SPIRITS PERSONATING
  MEN, ETC.:--

    An Address to the Christian Reader by Fourteen Influential
        Gentlemen                                                  221

  CASES OF CONSCIENCE CONCERNING WITCHCRAFTS                       225

    The First Case proposed, Whether or not may Satan appear in
        the Shape of an Innocent and Pious, as well as of a
        Nocent and Wicked Person, to afflict such as suffer by
        Diabolical Molestation?                                    225

    The Affirmative proved from Six Arguments:--

      1. From Several Scriptures                                   225

      2. Because it is possible for the Devil, in the Shape of
          Innocent Persons, to do other Mischiefs, proved by
          many Instances                                           234

      3. Because if Satan may not represent an Innocent Person
          as afflicting others, it must be either because he
          wants will or power to do this, or because God will
          never permit him so to do it; either of which may
          be affirmed                                              237

      4. It is certain, both from Scripture and History, that
          Magicians by their Inchantments and Hellish Conjurations
          may cause a False Representation of Persons
          and Things                                               243

      5. From the concurring Judgment of many Learned and
          Judicious Men                                            250

      6. Our own Experience has confirmed the Truth of what
          we affirm                                                253

    The Second Case considered, viz. If one bewitched be cast
        down with the look or cast of the Eye of another Person,
        and after that recovered again by a Touch from
        the same Person, is not this an infallible Proof that the
        party accused and complained of is in Covenant with
        the Devil?                                                 255

    Answer. This may be Ground of Suspicion and Examination,
        but not of Conviction                                      255

    The Judgment of Mr. Bernard and of Dr. Cotta produced      256

    Several Things offered against the Infallibility of this
        Proof:--

      1. 'Tis possible that the Persons in question may be
          possessed with Evil Spirits. Signs of such               258

      2. Falling down with the Cast of the Eye proceeds not
          from a natural, but an arbitrary Cause                   260

      3. That of the bewitched Persons being recovered with a
          Touch is various and fallible                            262

      4. There are that question the Lawfulness of the Experiment  264

      5. The Testimony of Bewitched or Possessed Persons is
          no Evidence as to what they see concerning others,
          and therefore not as to themselves                       266

      6. Bewitched Persons have sometimes been struck down
          with the Look of Dogs                                    267

      7. If this were an Infallible Proof, there would be
          difficulty in discovering Witches                        268

      8. Nothing can be produced out of the Word of God to
          shew, that this is any Proof of Witchcraft               268

      9. Antipathies in Nature have Strange and Unaccountable
          Effects                                                  268

    The Third Case considered, Whether there are any Discoveries
        of Witchcraft, which Jurors and Judges may
        with a safe Conscience proceed upon to the Conviction
        and Condemnation of the Persons under Suspicion?           269

    Two things premised:--

      1. That the Evidence in the Crime of Witchcraft ought
          to be as clear as in any other Crimes of a Capital
          Nature                                                   269

      2. That there have been ways of Trying Witches long
          used, which God never approved of. More particularly
          that of casting the Suspected Party into the
          Water, to try whether they will Sink or Swim. The
          Vanity and great Sin which is in that way of Purgation
          evinced by Six Reasons                                   270

    That there are Proofs for the Conviction of Witches, which
        Jurors may with a safe Conscience proceed upon, proved
        from Scripture                                             275

    That a Free and Voluntary Confession is a sufficient Ground
        of Conviction                                              276

    That the Testimony of confessing Witches against others, is
        not so clear an Evidence as against themselves             279

    That if two Credible Persons shall affirm upon Oath that they
        have seen the Person accused doing Things, which none
        but such as have familiarity with the Devil, ever did
        or can do, that's a sufficient ground of Conviction:
        and that this has often happened                           282

    Mr. Perkins his Solemn Caution to Jurors                     283

    Postscript                                                     285

  The Wonders of the Invisible World:

  Being an Account of the
  TRYALS
  OF
  \Several Witches\,
  Lately Excuted in
  NEW-ENGLAND:

  And of several remarkable Curiosities therein Occurring.

  Together with,

  I. Observations upon the Nature, the Number, and the Operations
     of the Devils.

  II. A short Narrative of a late outrage committed by a knot of
      Witches in Swede-Land, very much resembling, and so far
      explaining, that under which New-England has laboured.

  III. Some Councels directing a due Improvement of the Terrible things
       lately done by the unusual and amazing Range of Evil-Spirits
       in New-England.

  IV. A brief Discourse upon those Temptations which are the more
      ordinary Devices of Satan.

  By COTTON MATHER.

  Published by the Special Command of his EXCELLENCY the Govenour of the
  Province of the Massachusetts-Bay in New-England.

  Printed first, at Bostun in New-England; and Reprinted at London,
  for John Dunton, at the Raven in the Poultry. 1693.

THE AUTHOR'S DEFENCE.

'Tis, as I remember, the Learned Scribonius, who reports, That one of his Acquaintance, devoutly
making his Prayers on the behalf of a Person molested by Evil Spirits, received from those
Evil Spirits an horrible Blow over the Face: And I may my self expect not few or small Buffetings
from Evil Spirits, for the Endeavours wherewith I am now going to encounter them. The unaccountable
Frowardness, Asperity, Untreatableness, and Inconsistency of many Persons, every Day gives
a visible Exposition of that passage, An evil spirit from the Lord came upon Saul; and Illustration
of that Story, There met him two possessed with Devils, exceeding fierce, so that no man might
pass by that way. To send abroad a Book, among such Readers, were a very unadvised thing, if
a Man had not such Reasons to give, as I can bring, for such an Undertaking. Briefly, I hope
it cannot be said, They are all so: No, I hope the Body of this People, are yet in such a Temper,
as to be capable of applying their Thoughts, to make a Right Use of the stupendous and prodigious
Things that are happening among us: And because I was concern'd, when I saw that no abler Hand
emitted any Essays to engage the Minds of this People, in such holy, pious, fruitful Improvements,
as God would have to be made of his amazing Dispensations now upon us. THEREFORE it is, that
One of the Least among the Children of New-England, has here done, what is done. None, but
the Father, who sees in secret, knows the Heart-breaking Exercises, wherewith I have composed
what is now going to be exposed, lest I should in any one thing miss of doing my designed Service
for his Glory, and for his People; but I am now somewhat comfortably assured of his favourable
acceptance; and, I will not fear; what can a Satan do unto me!

Having performed something of what God required, in labouring to suit his Words unto his Works,
at this Day among us, and therewithal handled a Theme that has been sometimes counted not unworthy
the Pen, even of a King, it will easily be perceived, that some subordinate Ends have been
considered in these Endeavours.

