A cry of horror broke from the onlookers when a man and a woman suddenly appeared trying to
cross the White House grounds to reach a place of comparative safety, and were caught up by
the wind, clinging desperately to each other, and hurled against a wall, at whose base they
fell in a heap.

Then came another outburst of lightning, and a vicious bolt descended upon the Washington Monument,
and, twisting round it, seemed to envelop the great shaft in a pulsating corkscrew of blinding
fire. The report that instantly followed made the White House dance upon its foundations, and,
as if that had been a signal, the flood-gates of the sky immediately opened, and rain so dense
that it looked like a solid cataract of water poured down upon the earth. The raging water
burst into the basement of the building, and ran off in a shoreless river toward the Potomac.

The streaming rain, still driven by the wind, poured through the broken windows, driving the
President and the others to the middle of the room, where they soon stood in rills of water
soaking the thick carpet.

They were all as pale as death. Their eyes sought one another's faces in dumb amazement. Cosmo
Versal alone retained perfect self-command. In spite of his slight stature he looked their
master. Raising his voice to the highest pitch, in order to be heard, he shouted:

"These are the first drops of the Deluge! Will you believe now?"

CHAPTER IV

THE WORLD SWEPT WITH TERROR

The tempest of hail, snow, lightning, and rain, which burst so unexpectedly over Washington,
was not a local phenomenon. It leveled the antennae of the wireless telegraph systems all over
the world, cutting off communication everywhere. Only the submarine telephone cables remained
unaffected, and by them was transmitted the most astonishing news of the ravages of the storm.
Rivers had careered over their banks, low-lying towns were flooded, the swollen sewers of cities
exploded and inundated the streets, and gradually news came in from country districts showing
that vast areas of land had been submerged, and hundreds drowned.

The downfall of rain far exceeded everything that the meteorological bureaus had ever recorded.

The vagaries of the lightning, and the frightful power that it exhibited, were especially terrifying.

In London the Victoria Tower was partly dismantled by a bolt.

In Moscow the ancient and beautiful Church of St. Basil was nearly destroyed.

The celebrated Leaning Tower of Pisa, the wonder of centuries, was flung to the ground.

The vast dome of St. Peter's at Rome was said to have been encased during three whole minutes
with a blinding armor of electric fire, though the only harm done was the throwing down of
a statue in one of the chapels.

But, strangest freak of all, in New York a tremendous bolt, which seems to have entered the
Pennsylvania tunnel on the Jersey side, followed the rails under the river, throwing two trains
from the track, and, emerging in the great station in the heart of the city, expanded into
a rose-colored sphere, which exploded with an awful report, and blew the great roof to pieces.
And yet, although the fragments were scattered a dozen blocks away, hundreds of persons who
were in the stations suffered no other injury than such as resulted from being flung violently
to the floor, or against the walls.

Cosmo Versal's great ark seemed charmed. Not a single discharge of lightning occurred in its
vicinity, a fact which he attributed to the dielectric properties of levium. Nevertheless,
the wind carried away all his screens and electric fans.

If this storm had continued the predicted deluge would unquestionably have occurred at once,
and even its prophet would have perished through having begun his preparations too late. But
the disturbed elements sank into repose as suddenly as they had broken out with fury. The rain
did not last, in most places, more than twenty-four hours, although the atmosphere continued
to be filled with troubled clouds for a week. At the end of that time the sun reappeared, as
hot as before, and a spotless dome once more over-arched the earth; but from this time the
sky never resumed its former brilliant azure--there was always a strange coppery tinge, the
sight of which was appalling, although it gradually lost its first effect through familiarity.

The indifference and derision with which Cosmo's predictions and elaborate preparations had
hitherto been regarded now vanished, and the world, in spite of itself, shivered with vague
apprehension. No reassurances from those savants who still refused to admit the validity of
Cosmo Versal's calculations and deductions had any permanent effect upon the public mind.

With amusing inconsequence people sold stocks again, until all the exchanges were once more
swept with panic--and then put the money in their strong boxes, as if they thought that the
mere possession of the lucre could protect them. They hugged the money and remained deaf to
Cosmo's reiterated advice to build arks with it.

After all, they were only terrified, not convinced, and they felt that, somehow, everything
would come out right, now that they had their possessions well in hand.

For, in spite of the scare, nobody really believed that an actual deluge was coming. There
might be great floods, and great suffering and loss, but the world was not going to be drowned!
Such things only occurred in early and dark ages.

Some nervous persons found comfort in the fact that when the skies cleared after the sudden
downpour brilliant rainbows were seen. Their hearts bounded with joy.

"The 'Bow of Promise!'" they cried. "Behold the unvarying assurance that the world shall never
again be drowned."

Then a great revival movement was set on foot, starting in the Mississippi valley under the
leadership of an eloquent exhorter, who declared that, although a false prophet had arisen,
whose delusive prediction was contrary to Scripture, yet it was true that the world was about
to be punished in unexpected ways for its many iniquities.

This movement rapidly spread all over the country, and was taken up in England and throughout
Protestant Europe, and soon prayers were offered in thousands of churches to avert the wrath
of Heaven. Multitudes thus found their fears turned into a new direction, and by a strange
reaction, Cosmo Versal came to be regarded as a kind of Antichrist who was seeking to mislead
mankind.

Just at this juncture, to add to the dismay and uncertainty, a grand and fearful comet suddenly
appeared. It came up unexpectedly from the south, blazed brightly close beside the sun, even
at noonday, and a few nights later was visible after sunset with an immense fiery head and
a broad curved tail that seemed to pulsate from end to end. It was so bright that it cast shadows
at night, as distinct as those made by the moon. No such cometary monster had ever before been
seen. People shuddered when they looked at it. It moved with amazing speed, sweeping across
the firmament like a besom of destruction. Calculation showed that it was not more than 3,000,000
miles from the earth.

But one night the wonder and dread awakened by the comet were magnified a hundredfold by an
occurrence so unexpected and extraordinary that the spectators gasped in amazement.

The writer happens to have before him an entry in a diary, which is, probably, the sole contemporary
record of this event. It was written in the city of Washington by no less a person than Professor
Jeremiah Moses, of the Council of the Carnegie Institution. Let it tell its own story:

"A marvelous thing happened this night. I walked out into the park near my house with the intention
of viewing the great comet. The park on my side (the west), is bordered with a dense screen
of tall trees, and I advanced toward the open place in the center in order to have an unobstructed
sight of the flaming stranger. As I passed across the edge of the shadow of the trees--the
ground ahead being brilliantly illuminated by the light of the comet--I suddenly noticed, with
an involuntary start, that I was being preceded by a double shadow, with a black center, which
forked away from my feet.

"I cast my eyes behind me to find the cause of the phenomenon, and saw, to my inexpressible
amazement, that the comet had divided into two. There were two distinct heads, already widely
separated, but each, it seemed to me, as brilliant as the original one had been, and each supplied
with a vast plume of fire a hundred degrees in length, and consequently stretching far past
the zenith. The cause of the double shadow was evident at once--but what can have produced
this sudden disruption of the comet? It must have occurred since last evening, and already,
if the calculated distance of the comet is correct, the parts of the severed head are 300,000
miles asunder!"

Underneath this entry was scribbled:

"Can this have anything to do with Cosmo Versal's flood?"

Whether it had anything to do with the flood or not, at any rate the public believed that it
had. People went about with fear written on their faces.

The double shadows had a surprising effect. The phantasm was pointed out, and stared at with
superstitious terror by thousands every night. The fact that there was nothing really mysterious
about it made no difference. Even those who knew well that it was an inevitable optical result
of the division of the bright comet were thrilled with instinctive dread when they saw that
forked umbra, mimicking their every movement. There is nothing that so upsets the mind as a
sudden change in the aspect of familiar things.

The astronomers now took their turn. Those who were absolutely incredulous about Cosmo's prediction,
and genuinely desirous of allaying the popular alarm, issued statements in which, with a disingenuousness
that may have been unintentional, they tried to sidetrack his arguments.

Professor Pludder led the way with a pronunciamento declaring that "the absurd vaporings of
the modern Nostradamus of New York" had now demonstrated their own emptiness.

"A comet," said Professor Pludder, with reassuring seriousness, "cannot drown the earth. It
is composed of rare gases, which, as the experience of Halley's comet many years ago showed,
are unable to penetrate the atmosphere even when an actual encounter occurs. In this case there
cannot even be an encounter; the comet is now moving away. Its division is not an unprecedented
occurrence, for many previous comets have met with similar accidents. This comet happened to
be of unusual size, and the partition of the head occurred when it was relatively nearby--whence
the startling phenomena observed. There is nothing to be feared."

It will be remarked that Professor Pludder entirely avoided the real issue. Cosmo Versal had
never said that the comet would drown the earth. In fact, he had been as much surprised by
its appearance as everybody else. But when he read Professor Pludder's statement, followed
by others of similar import, he took up the cudgels with a vengeance. All over the world, translated
into a dozen languages, he scattered his reply, and the effect was startling.

"My fellow-citizens of the world in all lands, and of every race," he began, "you are face
to face with destruction! And yet, while its heralds are plainly signaling from the sky, and
shaking the earth with lightning to awaken it, blind leaders of blind try to deceive you!

"They are defying science itself!

"They say that the comet cannot touch the earth. That is true. It is passing away. I myself
did not foresee its coming. It arrived by accident, but every step that it has made through
the silent depths of space has been a proclamation of the presence of the nebula, which is
the real agent of the perdition of the world!

"Why that ominous redness which overcasts the heavens? You have all noticed it. Why that blinding
brightness which the comet has displayed, exceeding all that has ever been beheld in such visitors.
The explanation is plain: the comet has been feeding on the substance of the nebula, which
is rare yet because we have only encountered some of its outlying spirals.

"But it is coming on with terrible speed. In a few short months we shall be plunged into its
awful center, and then the oceans will swell to the mountaintops, and the continents will become
the bottoms of angry seas.

"When the flood begins it will be too late to save yourselves. You have already lost too much
precious time. I tell you solemnly that not one in a million can now be saved. Throw away every
other consideration, and try, try desperately, to be of the little company of those who escape!

"Remember that your only chance is in building arks--arks of levium, the metal that floats.
I have sent broadcast plans for such arks. They can be made of any size, but the larger the
better. In my own ark I can take only a selected number, and when the complement is made up
not another soul will be admitted.

"I have established all my facts by mathematical proofs. The most expert mathematicians of
the world have been unable to detect any error in my calculations. They try to dispute the
data, but the data are already before you for your own judgment. The heavens are so obscured
that only the brightest stars can now be seen." (This was a fact which had caused bewilderment
in the observatories.) "The recent outburst of storms and floods was the second sign of the
approaching end, and the third sign will not be long delayed--and after that the deluge!"

It is futile to try to describe the haunting fear and horror which seized upon the majority
of the millions who read these words. Business was paralyzed, for men found it impossible to
concentrate their minds upon ordinary affairs. Every night the twin comets, still very bright,
although they were fast retreating, brandished their fiery scimitars in the sky--more fearful
to the imagination now, since Cosmo Versal had declared that it was the nebula that stimulated
their energies. And by day the sky was watched with anxious eyes striving to detect signs of
a deepening of the menacing hue, which, to an excited fancy, suggested a tinge of blood.

Now, at last, Cosmo's warnings and entreaties bore practical fruit. Men began to inquire about
places in his ark, and to make preparations for building arks of their own.

He had not been interfered with after his memorable interview with the President of the United
States, and had pushed his work at Mineola with redoubled energy, employing night gangs of
workmen so that progress was continuous throughout the twenty-four hours.

Standing on its platform, the ark, whose hull was approaching completion, rose a hundred feet
into the air. It was 800 feet long and 250 broad--proportions which practical ship-builders
ridiculed, but Cosmo, as original in this as in everything else, declared that, taking into
account the buoyancy of levium, no other form would answer as well. He estimated that when
its great engines were in place, its immense stores of material for producing power, its ballast,
and its supplies of food stowed away, and its cargo of men and animals taken aboard, it would
not draw more than twenty feet of water.

Hardly a day passed now without somebody coming to Cosmo to inquire about the best method of
constructing arks. He gave the required information, in all possible detail, with the utmost
willingness. He drew plans and sketches, made all kinds of practical suggestions, and never
failed to urge the utmost haste. He inspired every visitor at the same time with alarm and
a resolution to go to work at once.

Some did go to work. But their progress was slow, and as days passed, and the comets gradually
faded out of sight, and then the dome of the sky showed a tendency to resume its natural blueness,
the enthusiasm of Cosmo's imitators weakened, together with their confidence in his prophetic
powers.

They concluded to postpone their operations until the need of arks should become more evident.

As to those who had sent inquiries about places in Cosmo's ark, now that the danger seemed
to be blowing away, they did not even take the trouble to answer the very kind responses that
he had made.

It is a singular circumstance that not one of these anxious inquirers seemed to have paid particular
attention to a very significant sentence in his reply. If they had given it a little thought,
it would probably have set them pondering, although they might have been more puzzled than
edified. The sentence ran as follows:

"While assuring you that my ark has been built for the benefit of my fellow men, I am bound
to tell you that I reserve absolutely the right to determine who are truly representative of
homo sapiens."

The fact was that Cosmo had been turning over in his mind the great fundamental question which
he had asked himself when the idea of trying to save the human race from annihilation had first
occurred to him, and apparently he had fixed upon certain principles that were to guide him.

Since, when the mind is under great strain through fear, the slightest relaxation, caused by
an apparently favorable change, produces a rebound of hope, as unreasoning as the preceding
terror, so, on this occasion, the vanishing of the comets, and the fading of the disquieting
color of the sky, had a wonderful effect in restoring public confidence in the orderly procession
of nature.

Cosmo Versal's vogue as a prophet of disaster was soon gone, and once more everybody began
to laugh at him. People turned again to their neglected affairs with the general remark that
they "guessed the world would manage to wade through."

Those who had begun preparations to build arks looked very sheepish when their friends guyed
them about their childish credulity.

Then a feeling of angry resentment arose, and one day Cosmo Versal was mobbed in the street,
and the gamins threw stones at him.

People forgot the extraordinary storm of lightning and rain, the split comet, and all the other
circumstances which, a little time before, had filled them with terror.

But they were making a fearful mistake!

With eyes blindfolded they were walking straight into the jaws of destruction.

Without warning, and as suddenly almost as an explosion, the third sign appeared, and on its
heels came a veritable Reign of Terror!

CHAPTER V

THE THIRD SIGN

In the middle of the night, at New York, hundreds of thousands simultaneously awoke with a
feeling of suffocation.

They struggled for breath as if they had suddenly been plunged into a steam bath.

The air was hot, heavy, and terribly oppressive.

The throwing open of windows brought no relief. The outer air was as stifling as that within.

It was so dark that, on looking out, one could not see his own doorsteps. The arc-lamps in
the street flickered with an ineffective blue gleam which shed no illumination round about.

House lights, when turned on, looked like tiny candles inclosed in thick blue globes.

Frightened men and women stumbled around in the gloom of their chambers trying to dress themselves.

Cries and exclamations rang from room to room; children wailed; hysterical mothers ran wildly
hither and thither, seeking their little ones. Many fainted, partly through terror and partly
from the difficulty of breathing. Sick persons, seized with a terrible oppression of the chest,
gasped, and never rose from their beds.

At every window, and in every doorway, throughout the vast city, invisible heads and forms
were crowded, making their presence known by their voices--distracted householders striving
to peer through the strange darkness, and to find out the cause of these terrifying phenomena.

Some managed to get a faint glimpse of their watches by holding them close against lamps, and
thus noted the time. It was two o'clock in the morning.

Neighbors, unseen, called to one another, but got little comfort from the replies.

"What is it? In God's name, what has happened?"

"I don't know. I can hardly breathe."

"It is awful! We shall all be suffocated."

"Is it a fire?"

"No! No! It cannot be a fire."

"The air is full of steam. The stones and the window-panes are streaming with moisture."

"Great Heavens, how stifling it is!"

Then, into thousands of minds at once leaped the thought of the flood!

The memory of Cosmo Versal's reiterated warnings came back with overwhelming force. It must
be the third sign that he had foretold. It had really come!

Those fateful words--"the flood" and "Cosmo Versal"--ran from lip to lip, and the hearts of
those who spoke, and those who heard, sank like lead in their bosoms.

He would be a bold man, more confident in his powers of description than the present writer,
who should attempt to picture the scenes in New York on that fearful night.

The gasping and terror-stricken millions waited and longed for the hour of sunrise, hoping
that then the stygian darkness would be dissipated, so that people might, at least, see where
to go and what to do. Many, oppressed by the almost unbreathable air, gave up in despair, and
no longer even hoped for morning to come.

In the midst of it all a collision occurred directly over Central Park between two aero-expresses,
one coming from Boston and the other from Albany. (The use of small aeroplanes within the city
limits had, for some time, been prohibited on account of the constant danger of collisions,
but the long-distance lines were permitted to enter the metropolitan district, making their
landings and departures on specially constructed towers.) These two, crowded with passengers,
had, as it afterward appeared, completely lost their bearings--the strongest electric lights
being invisible a few hundred feet away, while the wireless signals were confusing--and, before
the danger was apprehended, they crashed together.

The collision occurred at a height of a thousand feet, on the Fifth Avenue side of the park.
Both of the airships had their aeroplanes smashed and their decks crumpled up, and the unfortunate
crews and passengers were hurled through the impenetrable darkness to the ground.

Only four or five, who were lucky enough to be entangled with the lighter parts of the wreckage,
escaped with their lives. But they were too much injured to get upon their feet, and there
they lay, their sufferings made tenfold worse by the stifling air, and the horror of their
inexplicable situation, until they were found and humanely relieved, more than ten hours after
their fall.

The noise of the collision had been heard in Fifth Avenue, and its meaning was understood;
but amid the universal terror no one thought of trying to aid the victims. Everybody was absorbed
in wondering what would become of himself.

When the long attended hour of sunrise approached, the watchers were appalled by the absence
of even the slightest indication of the reappearance of the orb of day. There was no lightening
of the dense cloak of darkness, and the great city seemed dead.

For the first time in its history it failed to awake after its regular period of repose, and
to send forth its myriad voices. It could not be seen; it could not be heard; it made no sign.
As far as any outward indication of its existence was concerned the mighty capital had ceased
to be.

It was this frightful silence of the streets, and of all the outer world, that terrified the
people, cooped up in their houses, and their rooms, by the walls of darkness, more than almost
any other circumstance; it gave such an overwhelming sense of the universality of the disaster,
whatever that disaster might be. Except where the voices of neighbors could be heard, one could
not be sure that the whole population, outside his own family, had not perished.

As the hours passed, and yet no light appeared, another intimidating circumstance manifested
itself. From the start everybody had noticed the excessive humidity of the dense air. Every
solid object that the hands came in contact with in the darkness was wet, as if a thick fog
had condensed upon it. This supersaturation of the air (a principal cause of the difficulty
experienced in breathing) led to a result which would quickly have been foreseen if people
could have had the use of their eyes, but which, coming on invisibly, produced a panic fear
when at last its presence was strikingly forced upon the attention.

The moisture collected on all exposed surfaces--on the roofs, the walls, the pavements--until
its quantity became sufficient to form little rills, which sought the gutters, and there gathered
force and volume. Presently the streams became large enough to create a noise of flowing water
that attracted the attention of the anxious watchers at the open windows. Then cries of dismay
arose. If the water had been visible it would not have been terrible.

But, to the overstrained imagination, the bubbling and splashing sound that came out of the
darkness was magnified into the rush of a torrent. It seemed to grow louder every moment. What
was but a murmur on the ear-drum became a roar in the excited brain-cells.

Once more were heard the ominous words, "The flood!"

They spread from room to room, and from house to house. The wild scenes that had attended the
first awakening were tame in comparison with what now occurred. Self-control, reason--everything--gave
way to panic.

If they could only have seen what they were about!

But then they would not have been about it. Then their reason would not have been dethroned.

Darkness is the microscope of the imagination, and it magnifies a million times!

Some timorously descended their doorsteps, and feeling a current of water in the gutter, recoiled
with cries of horror, as if they had slipped down the bank of a flooded river. As they retreated
they believed that the water was rising at their heels!

Others made their way to the roofs, persuaded that the flood was already inundating the basements
and the lower stories of their dwellings.

Women wrung their hands and wept, and children cried, and men pushed and stumbled about, and
shouted, and would have done something if only they could have seen what to do. That was the
pity of it! It was as if the world had been stricken blind, and then the trump of an archangel
had sounded, crying:

"Fly! Fly! for the Avenger is on your heels!"

How could they fly?

This awful strain could not have lasted. It would have needed no deluge to finish New York
if that maddening pall of darkness had remained unbroken a few hours longer. But, just when
thousands had given up in despair, there came a rapid change.

At the hour of noon light suddenly broke overhead. Beginning in a round patch inclosed in an
iridescent halo, it spread swiftly, seeming to melt its way down through the thick, dark mass
that choked the air, and in less than fifteen minutes New York and all its surroundings emerged
into the golden light of noonday.

People who had expected at any moment to feel the water pitilessly rising about them looked
out of their windows, and were astonished to see only tiny rivulets which were already shriveling
out of sight in the gutters. In a few minutes there was no running water left, although the
dampness on the walls and walks showed how great the humidity of the air had been.

At the same time the oppression was lifted from the respiratory apparatus, and everybody breathed
freely once more, and felt courage returning with each respiration.

The whole great city seemed to utter a vast sigh of relief.

And then its voice was heard, as it had never been heard before, rising higher and louder every
moment. It was the first time that morning had ever broken at midday.

The streets became filled, with magical quickness, by hundreds of thousands, who chattered,
and shouted, and laughed, and shook hands, and asked questions, and told their experiences,
and demanded if anybody had ever heard of such a thing before, and wondered what it could have
been, and what it meant, and whether it would come back again.

Telephones of all kinds were kept constantly busy. Women called up their friends, and talked
hysterically; men called up their associates and partners, and tried to talk business.

There was a rush for the Elevated, for the Subways, for the street auto-cars. The great arteries
of traffic became jammed, and the noise rose louder and louder.

Belated aero-expresses arrived at the towers from East and West, and their passengers hurried
down to join the excited multitudes below.

In an incredibly brief time the newsboys were out with extras. Then everybody read with the
utmost avidity what everybody knew already.

But before many hours passed there was real news, come by wireless, and by submarine telephone
and telegraph, telling how the whole world had been swept by the marvelous cloak of darkness.

In Europe it had arrived during the morning hours; in Asia during the afternoon.

The phenomena had varied in different places. In some the darkness had not been complete, but
everywhere it was accompanied by extraordinary humidity, and occasionally by brief but torrential
rains. The terror had been universal, and all believed that it was the third sign predicted
by Cosmo Versal.

Of course, the latter was interviewed, and he gave out a characteristic manifesto.

"One of the outlying spirals of the nebula has struck the earth," he said. "But do not be deceived.
It is nothing in comparison with what is coming. And it is the LAST WARNING that will be given!
You have obstinately shut your eyes to the truth, and you have thrown away your lives!"

This, together with the recent awful experience, produced a great effect. Those who had begun
to lay foundations for arks thought of resuming the work. Those who had before sought places
with Cosmo called him up by telephone. But only the voice of Joseph Smith answered, and his
words were not reassuring.

"Mr. Versal," he said, "directs me to say that at present he will allot no places. He is considering
whom he will take."

The recipients of this reply looked very blank. But at least one of them, a well-known broker
in Wall Street, was more angered than frightened:

"Let him go to the deuce!" he growled; "him and his flood together!"

Then he resolutely set out to bull the market.

It seems incredible--but such is human nature--that a few days of bright sunshine should once
more have driven off the clouds of fear that had settled so densely over the popular mind.
Of course, not everybody forgot the terrors of the third sign--they had struck too deep, but
gradually the strain was relaxed, and people in general accepted the renewed assurances of
the savants of the Pludder type that nothing that had occurred was inexplicable by the ordinary
laws of nature. The great darkness, they averred, differed from previous occurrences of the
kind only in degree, and it was to be ascribed to nothing more serious than atmospheric vagaries,
such as that which produced the historic Dark Day in New England in the year 1780.

