"Well, it's obvious that a blood must be a bit of a rip; and Buller's is merely an asylum for
bloods!"

This rather perplexed Gordon. He ventured a question rather timidly: "But is it impossible
for a blood to be a decent fellow?"

"Decent fellow?" cried Jeffries. "Who on earth has said they were anything else? Johnson's
a simply glorious man. Only a bit fast; and that doesn't matter much."

In a farewell lecture, Gordon's preparatory school master had given him to believe that it
mattered a good deal, but he was doubtless old-fashioned. Times were changed; Gordon had ceased
to be shocked at what he heard; he was learning what life was, and how strange and beautiful
and ugly it was.

As the winter term drew to a close, Gordon grew more and more sure of himself. He had passed
by nearly all the other new boys. Foster, it is true, had got on well according to his lights,
and was on more than friendly terms with Evans, the school slow bowler. But he was not much
liked by his equals. Rudd was looked on quite rightly as an absolute buffoon; Collins got on
fairly well, but was generally admitted to be a bit eccentric. Gordon was, without doubt, the
pick of the crew. His position in form was a great help. Mansell's friends thought him a cheerful,
amusing and respectable-looking person, and were quite pleased to have him about the place.
Next term he was going to have a study with Jeffries. The Chief thought he had got on rather
too quick. But he was usually among the first three in his form, and there was nothing definite
to find fault with, and, after all, his friends were excellent fellows. There was nothing against
them. Jeffries was genially selfish, always ready for a rag, a keen footballer, and had, like
most other Public School boys, adopted a convenient broadmindedness with regard to cribbing
and other matters.

"If the master is such an arrant ass as to let you crib, it is his own lookout; and, after
all, we take the sporting chance."

Lovelace minor was rather a different sort of person. Very excitable, he despised and deceived
most of the masters; among his friends he was unimpeachably loyal. He loved games, but never
took them sufficiently seriously to please "the Bull." He played for his own pleasure, not
"the Bull's." He was a splendid companion.

Hunter was rather a nonentity; his chief attraction was that he usually had the last bit of
scandal at his finger-tips; he was safe to be consulted on any point of school politics. It
was his boast that he had sufficient evidence to expel half the Fifteen and the whole Eleven.

At this time Gordon found school life inexpressibly joyful. There were minor troubles, but
they were few. The only thing that really worried him was Corps Parade. This infliction occurred
once every week, and for two hours Gordon passed through hell. He was in a recruits' section
under a man from Rogers' house, who was a typical product of his house. He was oily, yellow
and unpleasant to look upon. He also loathed Gordon. There was a feud between the men from
Rogers' and the School House.

Rogers was the captain in command of the corps. To Gordon he seemed exactly like what Cicero
must have been, loud, contentious, smashing down pasteboard castles with a terrific din. He
was amazingly arrogant and conceited. In the pulpit and on the parade ground he was in his
element. The School House had for years been notorious for their slackness on parade. In drill
and musketry competitions they had invariably come out bottom, and Rogers hated them for it.
It was indeed a great sight to see the School House half company at work. Everyone was fed
to death, and took no pains to hide the fact. Once Rogers had said to the House colour-sergeant:

"Phillips, form up your men facing right."

Phillips looked round at them, thought for a second or two and then drawled: "Look here, you
fellows, shove round there." And the subsequent sarcastic comment was quite lost on him. He
was a good forward, but not too clever. He was proof against epigram.

It was truly a noble sight to see Lovelace minor come on parade. Every week exactly two seconds
late, in the dead silence that followed the sergeant-major's thundered "Parade!" he would dash
through the school gate, puffing and blowing, his drum knocking against his equipment, his
hat crooked, half his buttons undone. He would barge through two sections, rush to the School
House half-company, bang his rifle on the ground, and say to his companion in a stage whisper:
"I wasn't noticed, was I?"

But these were only incidents. As a whole everything connected with the corps was "a hell upon
earth." Field days consisted of a long march, a sublime mix-up, a speech from Rogers, a bad
tea, then a long march home. No one knew what was happening; no one cared. It was a sheer waste
of time. Only Rogers really enjoyed himself.

Then suddenly it occurred to Clarke that such a state of affairs was a disgrace to the House.
He had just been made a colour-sergeant, and determined to wake things up. He made a long speech
to the House, pointing out the necessity for National Service, the importance of militarism,
and its effect on citizenship. He finished by a patriotic outburst, telling them that they
were wearing the King's uniform, and that it must be kept clean, with the brass badges polished.
The House was mildly interested; its attitude was summed up in Turner's remark:

"The King's uniform will have to go buttonless as far as I am concerned. Damned if I'll waste
twopence to buy a rotten bone button."

On the next parade, however, Clarke inspected the company. Half the House had to call him the
next morning, dressed properly, at seven o'clock. That would mean getting up at six-thirty.
General consternation.

"It's a crying scandal," said Lovelace minor. "If I had not been reported for slacking at French
I'd jolly well go and complain to the Chief. How can anyone play football without proper sleep?"

Gordon laughed from the depths of his arm-chair. There were advantages in being a recruit,
even if one was ordered about by a man in Rogers' who didn't wash. Hunter and Jeffries raged
furiously; they swore that they would not turn up. "Who is Clarke, damn his eyes, to take on
the privileges of a brigadier-general? It's a House tradition that no one tries at parade."

Overnight Hunter was very full of rebellion; but seven o'clock saw him in shining brass, meekly
standing before Clarke, who examined them from his bed with an electric torch. But Jeffries
cut; he was ever "agin the government." He got six. His tunic was clean next week. The House
growled and cursed inwardly, but its appearance on parade was very different. Clarke was a man.

There is nothing so self-satisfying as to watch trouble from a safe distance. Gordon was thoroughly
happy. Mansell cursed heavily every Monday night before the Tuesday parade. Clarke became to
the House what Cromwell was to Ireland; even the feeble Davenham thought it was a bit thick.
But Gordon was a recruit, and such things did not worry him. Life was just then amazingly exciting.
He was developing into quite a useful forward. Mansell said he was certain for a place in the
House Thirds side. He was high up in form, and there was a good chance of his getting a prize,
but what perhaps counted more than anything else was the fact that he was getting a position
in the House. Prefects had ceased to ask him what his name was. He was no longer a nonentity;
he was looked on as a coming man.

As the term wore on, the thought of exams. brought to Gordon only a feeling of excitement.
There was little likelihood of disaster; there was the certainty of a good struggle for the
first place between himself and one Walford, a dull though industrious outhouse individual.
But to some of his friends exams. seemed as the day of reckoning. Lovelace minor was frankly
at his wits' end. He had slacked most abominably the whole term. He had prepared none of his
books, and his next-door neighbour had supplied him with all necessary information. Now the
news was about that IV. B was going to sit with the Sixth Form for exams. Terror reigned. There
could be no cribbing under the Chief's nose. Jeffries was in the same plight; but he was a
philosopher. "If I get bottled in every paper," he said, "it will only mean about two hours'
work on each subject. But if I am going to know enough to avoid being bottled, it will mean
a good eight hours' work at each subject: six hours wasted on each. In these times of bustle
it can't be done. Caruthers, pass me that red-backed novel on the second shelf!"

Lovelace, however, was perturbed, and set out to prepare himself for the ordeal. But his was
a temperament that forbade application on any subject other than horse racing. Every night
he paced up and down the study passages getting hints first from one person then another, and
always staying for a talk. By the end of preparation the result was always the same--nothing
done; and he and Jeffries both spent the last Saturday in exactly the same way.

But with Mansell it was different. If he got a promotion his pater had promised him a motor
bike. At first sight this seemed impossible. Hunter in fact laid a hundred to one against his
chances. But for once Mansell really tried at something besides games. For two halls he worked
solidly from seven till ten, preparing small slips of paper that contained all the notes he
could find in Gordon's notebook, and that could fit conveniently into the back of a watch.
Everything was in his favour. Claremont was taking exams. The first paper was Old Testament
history. Mansell looked at his watch repeatedly; but suddenly he came to an unexpected question.
He endeavoured to extract an answer from the man on his right.

Claremont spotted him.

"Well, Mansell, if I ask you if you are cribbing, I know you will deny it, and I don't want
you to tell me a lie; but I must beg of you not to talk quite so loudly."

Any ordinary master would have torn up the boy's paper. But Claremont was getting old.

At any rate for the rest of the exams. Mansell relied entirely on his notes. The Greek translation
paper, however, was more than he could do. Promotion did not count on a set subject, but only
on English and Latin; so Greek had gone by the board. After writing the most amazing nonsense
for two hours, Mansell decided that it was wiser not to enter into competition at all with
those low tricksters who had prepared their work. He showed up no papers at all.

Next day Claremont corrected the papers.

"Well, Mansell, I can't find your paper anywhere."

"I showed it up, sir."

"Well, I am sure I don't know where it is. You had better go and find Mr Douglas, and ask him
if he knows anything about it."

Mr Douglas was the mathematical master, to whom all marks were sent. He added them up, and
made out the orders.

After an unnecessarily long interval Mansell returned.

"I am sorry, sir; Mr Douglas has not seen them."

"Well, I suppose it must be all my fault. I shall have to give you an average on your papers,
which, strange to say, have been, for you, remarkably good."

Mansell was averaged sixth for the paper. A real good bluff gives more pleasure than all the
honest exercises of one's life put together.

There was laughter in No. 16 Study that evening. A few weeks ago Gordon would have been horrified
at such a thing; but now it seemed a splendid jest. He would not have cribbed himself. He preferred
to beat a man with his own brains, though Mansell would have protested that it was a greater
effort to pit one's brains against a master long trained in spotting tricks than against some
dull-headed scholar. The Public School system, at any rate, teaches its sons the art of framing
very ingenious theories with which to defend their faults; a negative virtue, perhaps, but
none the less an achievement.

The last days of term were now drawing in. The House supper was only a few days off and the
holidays very close. Everyone was glad on the whole to have finished the Christmas term, which
is invariably the worst of the three. And this year it had not been improved by Clarke's military
activities and the feeling of unrest that overhung the doings of the Fifteen, because of Lovelace
major's never-ending broils with "the Bull." Two strong men both wanted their own way. On the
whole, honours were even, though, if anything, slightly in Lovelace's favour, since he had
filled up the scrum with a School House forward and a member of Benson's, a small and rather
insignificant House, instead of giving the colours to men in Buller's.

But next term there would be fewer rows. There would be house matches, and each house captain
would run things in his own house as he wished. The school captain did little except post up
which grounds each house was to occupy. The School House always longed for the Easter term.
It was their chance of showing the rest of the school what they were made of. As they were
slightly bigger than any other house, they claimed the honour of playing the three best of
the outhouses in the great Three Cock House Match for the Senior Challenge Cup. This year,
with Lovelace and Meredith, a School House victory was looked on as almost certain. Besides
this big event there were the Two Cock and Thirds House Match. In the "Thirds" the School House
under sixteen house side played against the two best of the outhouses under sixteen sides,
for the Thirds Challenge Cup. And in the Two Cock, the second House Fifteen--that is, the House
Fifteen minus those with first and second Fifteen colours--played the two best of the outhouse
second Fifteens for the Junior Challenge Cup. The results of these last two matches were very
much on the knees of the gods. The House stood a fair chance, but the general opinion was that
Buller's would win the Thirds; and Christy's, a house that was full of average players who
were too slack to get their seconds, would pull off the Two Cock. At any rate, there would
be no lack of excitement. There was always far more keenness shown about house matches than
school matches, a fact which worried Buller immensely. He thought everything should be secondary
to the interests of Fernhurst.

On the last Saturday of the term there was the House Supper. It was a noble affair. The bloods
wore evening dress; even the untidiest junior oiled his hair and put on a clean collar. At
the Sixth Form table sat the Chief, some guests, Lovelace, Clarke, and a certain Ferguson,
who edited The Fernhurst School Magazine, and was to propose the health of the old boys, of
whom about twenty had come down, several having helped to defeat the school by twenty points
to sixteen in the afternoon. Never had so much food been seen before. Turner had boasted that
he always went into training a week before the event, so as to enjoy it more. But the real
triumph was the hot punch. As soon as dessert had begun the old boys trooped out, and brought
in a huge steaming bowl of punch, from which they filled all the glasses. Gordon did not like
it much. It seemed very hot and strong. But everyone else seemed to. Jeffries got a little excited.

Then speeches followed. The Chief proposed the fortune of the House, Clarke answered him. There
was the usual applause and clapping. But the real event was Lovelace's speech. It had been
a year of great success. The Three Cock had been lost by only a very small margin. The Two
Cock had been won in a walk-over, and the Thirds by two points. The Senior Cricket and the
Sports Cup had also been won. It was very nearly a record year. Lovelace was received with
terrific applause; he congratulated the House on its performance; he mentioned individual names;
each was the signal for a roar of cheering; and then, at the end, he said:

"And now I have a message to the House from the old boys. Let us have the Three Cock Cup back
again on the School House sideboard. It is the place where it should be, and that's the place
where we are going to put it! Gentlemen, The Three Cock!"

Amid a deafening noise the toast was drunk, and a voice from the back yelled out: "Three cheers
for Lovelace!" His health, too, was drunk, and they sang For he's a Jolly Good Fellow.

After this all else seemed tame. Ferguson made a speech that was meant to be very funny, but
rather missed fire. He had read Dorian Gray the whole of the evening before, underlining appropriate
aphorisms. But to the average boy Oscar Wilde is (rather luckily perhaps) a little too advanced.
The evening finished with Auld Lang Syne. Everyone stood on the table and roared himself hoarse.
The score in damage was twenty plates broken beyond repair, sixteen punch glasses in fragments,
fourteen cracked plates, two broken gas mantles. When the revellers had departed the hall looked
rather gloomy, as probably Nero's did when his guests fled after the murder of Britannicus.

Next morning there was early service for communicants. But the School House was entirely pagan.
Hardly a man went. On Sunday there was a great feed in Study 16. Somehow or other ten people
got packed into as many square feet of room. Gordon was there; and Mansell, of course; Collins
came to act as general clown; Fitzroy, a small friend of Jeffries, sat in a far corner looking
rather uncomfortable. Spence, Carey and Tiddy made up the number; the last were quite the ordinary
Public School type, their conversation ran entirely on games, scandal and the work they had
not done. Lovelace was mildly bored.

"It's pretty fair rot, you know. Here have I been fair sweating away at the exams, every minute
of my time, and Jeffries, who has not done a stroke, is above me."

Jeffries was bottom but one.

"Oh, rotten luck," said Mansell. "You should do like me. Old fool Claremont said I had done
damned well!"

"He hardly put it that way," came from Gordon; "but I believe Mansell has managed more or less
to deceive the examiners."

"Oh, I say, that's a bit thick, you know," said Mansell. "Oh, damn, who is that at the door?"

There was a feeble knock. "Come in!" shouted at least six voices simultaneously.

Davenham came in looking rather frightened.

"I'm sorry.... Is Caruthers in here?"

"Yes, young fellow, he is."

"Oh, Caruthers, Meredith wants you!"

"Damn him," said Gordon. "What a nuisance these prefects are."

Very unwillingly he got up and strolled upstairs.

He was away rather a long time. After twenty minutes' absence he returned rather moodily.

"Hullo, at last; you've been the hell of a long time," said Hunter. "What did he want?"

"Oh, nothing; only something about my boxing subscription."

"Well, he took long enough about it, I must say. Was that all?"

"Of course. Cake, please, Fitzroy!"

The subject was dropped.

But just before chapel Jeffries ran into Gordon in the cloister.

"Look here, Caruthers, what did Meredith really want you for? I swear I won't tell anyone."

"Oh, well, I don't mind you knowing.... You know what Meredith is, well--I mean--oh, you know,
the usual stuff. He wanted me to meet him out for a walk to-morrow. I told him in polite language
to go to the 'devil.'"

"Good Lord, did you really? But why? If Meredith gets fed up with you he could give you the
hell of a time."

"Oh, I know he could, but he wouldn't over a thing like that. Damn it all, the man is a gentleman."

"Of course he is, but all the same he is a blood, and it pays to keep on good terms with them."

"Oh, I don't know; it's risky--and well, I think the whole idea is damned silly nonsense."

Jeffries looked at him rather curiously.

"Yes," he said, "I suppose that is how the small boy always looks at it."

It was only for an hour or so, however, that Gordon let this affair worry him. The holidays
were only forty-eight hours off and he was longing to hear the results of the exams., and to
know whether he had a prize.

Prize-giving was always held at five o'clock on the last Monday. And the afternoon dragged
by very slowly. Mansell assumed a cheerful indifference. He thought his motor bike fairly certain.
Rumour had it there were going to be at least twelve promotions into the Lower Fifth. Jeffries
and Lovelace had also nothing to worry about; there was little doubt as to their positions.
Hunter specialised in chemistry, and had done no examination papers. But for Gordon the suspense
was intolerable. He could find nothing to do; he climbed up the Abbey tower, and wrote his
name on the big hand of the clock; he roped up his playbox, tipped the school porter; and still
there was an hour and a half to put in. Disconsolately he wandered down town. He strolled into
Gisson's, the school book-seller's: it contained nothing but the Home University Library series
and numerous Everymans. It was just like his first day over again. But at last five o'clock
came, and he sat with his four friends at the back of the big schoolroom. He grew more and
more tired of hearing the lists of the Second and Third Forms read out. What interest did he
take in the doings of Pappenheim and Guttridge tertius? IV. A was reached at length. The list
was read from the bottom.

Not placed--Hunter.

Slowly the names were read out; the single figures were now reached:

Mansell--term's work, eighteen. Exams., one. Combined order, four.

This difference of position caused a titter to run round among those of the School House who
knew the cause of it. The third name and then the second was reached:

Caruthers--Term's work, one. Exams., three. Combined order, one.

Term's Prize--Caruthers. Exams.--Mansell.

The latter's performance was the signal for an uproarious outburst of applause, in which laughter
played a large part. There was still more merriment when it was discovered that he had got
as a prize Sartor Resartus. As he crudely put it: "What the bloody hell does it mean?" Gordon
got the Indian Mutiny, by Malleson. Both books now repose, as do most prizes, in the owners'
book-cases, unread.

"Congrats, Mansell, old fellow," yelled Lovelace minor, as the school poured out at the end
of the prize-giving. "Glorious! What a School House triumph."

"Yes, you know," said Mansell. "But it doesn't seem quite fair, and I am damned if I want this
book. It looks the most utter rot. I say, shall I give it to that little kid in Buller's, I
forget his name, who was second? He looks a bit upset. Shall I, I say?"

"Don't be a silly fool, Mansell," said Lovelace major, who happened to overhear the conversation.
"You've just got the only prize you're ever likely to get for work; stick on to it."

The rest of the day was pure, unalloyed joy to Gordon. He rushed off after tea to wire the
news home; then he sat in the gallery and listened to the concert. He had expected to enjoy
it rather; but the seats were uncomfortable, the music too classical, and he soon stopped paying
any attention to the choir, and began a long argument with Collins as to the composition of
the Two Cock scrum.

The next morning as the train steamed out of Fernhurst, and he lay back in the carriage smoking
a cigarette, outwardly with the air of a connoisseur, inwardly with the timid nervousness of
a novice, he reflected that, in spite of the Rev. Rogers, school was a pretty decent sort of place.

CHAPTER IV: NEW FACES

"I say, it is true; Lovelace major has left."

"Good Lord, no; is it?"

"He's not on the House list?"

"I heard he'd passed into the army at last."

"I wonder who he was sitting next."

"And we shall have that silly ass Armour captain of the House."

"Ye gods!"

A small crowd had gathered in front of the studies on the first night of the Easter term. Consternation
reigned. The almost impossible had happened. Lovelace major had passed into Sandhurst at his
fifth attempt, and Armour would take his place as house captain. It was a disaster. Armour
was doubtless a most worthy fellow, a thoroughly honest, hard-working forward. But he had no
personality. When he passed by, fags did not suddenly stop talking, as they did when Clarke
or Meredith rolled past them. The term before, he had not even been a house prefect. The Three
Cock, which had once seemed such a certainty, now became a forlorn hope.

"It's rotten," said Lovelace minor that night in the dormitory. "My brother didn't think he
had the very ghost of a chance of passing. He'd mucked it up four times running, only the silly
ass had done both the unseens with "the Bull" the week before, and he was too damned slack
to alter them, and write them down wrong. He always was an ass, my brother."

Everyone was sorry. Even "the Bull" regarded him with a sort of indulgent sentimentality. He
never saw very much good in a School House captain as long as he was there; but as soon as
he left, all his faults were forgotten and virtues that he had never possessed were flung at
him in profusion. The result was that "the Bull" said to the School House captain of each generation:
"I have had more trouble with you than any Fernhurst boy I have ever met. You can't see beyond
the length of your own dining-hall. See big. See the importance of Fernhurst, and the insignificance
of yourself."

But no one was more sorry than Armour. He did not want responsibility; he had not sought for
it. He wished to have fought in the School House battles as a private, not as an officer. He
loved the House, and longed for its success, and trembled to think that he might ruin its chances
by a weak and vacillating captaincy. Moreover, he felt that he had no one to back him up. Meredith,
Robey and Simonds, the other members of the First Fifteen in the House, were all grousing and
wondering how large a score the outhouses would run up in the Three Cock. No one placed any
confidence in his abilities. He was entirely alone.

The next day was pouring wet; the ground was under water. Most house captains would have sent
their houses for a run. But Armour wanted to make his start as early as possible. He couldn't
bear to delay. That afternoon the probable Thirds side played against the rest of the House,
with the exception of the Second colours. Armour had never felt so nervous before; it was actually
the first time he had refereed on a game. Jeffries was captain of the Thirds, and kicked off.
It was, of course, a scrappy game. On such a day good football was impossible. The outsides
hardly touched the ball once. But the forwards, covered in mud from head to foot, had their
full share of work. Jeffries was ubiquitous; he led the "grovel" (as the scrum was called at
Fernhurst), and kept it together. Gordon had very little chance of distinguishing himself;
but he did one or two dribbles, and managed to collar Mansell the only time he looked like
getting away. Lovelace minor, who played fly-half, had nothing to do except stop forward rushes,
was kicked all over his body, got very cold and never had a chance once. He was utterly miserable
the whole hour. All this was in favour of Armour. He knew nothing about three-quarter work,
but he had played forward ever since he had gone to the Fernhurst preparatory at ten years
of age, and could always spot the worker and the slacker, which Lovelace major never could.
On the whole, taking a house game was not so terrifying after all; by half-time he had forgotten
his nervousness in his excitement at watching how his side was going to shape.

"You know, I don't think Armour so rotten as people said he would be," said Gordon, as they
came up after the game. "I thought he was all right."

"Oh yes, he's not so bad; but he does not seem much when you shove him next to Lovelace major."

"Well, you know," said Jeffries, "he does know something about forward play, which I am damned
if Lovelace did."

"Perhaps so; but all the same Lovelace was the man to win matches." Mansell was an outside,
and loved dash and brilliance, but the forwards were not sorry to have someone in command who
understood them. Armour had begun well.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are still people who will maintain that the ideal schoolboy in school hours thinks only
about Vergil and Sophocles, and in the field concentrates entirely on drop kicks and yorkers.
But that boy does not exist; and in the Easter term it is impossible to think of anything but
house matches. Those who were in the power of some form martinet had a terrible time this term.
But Gordon and Mansell found themselves safely at rest in Claremont's form and Greek set, and
made up their minds just to stay there and do only enough work to avoid being bottled.

For the Lower Fifth was certainly the refuge of many weather-beaten mariners. Pat Johnstone
had laboriously worked up from the bottom form, led on only by the hope that one day he would
reach V. B, and there repose at the back of the room, living his last terms in peace. Ruddock
had once set out with high hopes of reaching the Sixth; his first term he had won a Divinity
prize in the Shell. But under Claremont he had discovered the truth, learnt long ago in the
land of Lotus Eaters, "that slumber is more sweet than toil!" The back benches of that room
were strewn with shattered hopes. Small intelligent scholars came up and passed by on their
way to Balliol Scholarships; but the faces at the back of the room remained terribly somnolent
and happy. A certain Banbury had been there for three years and had earned the nickname of
"old Father Time," and Mansell, too, swore he would enrol himself with the Lost Legion, while
even Gordon said that nothing would shift him from there for at least a year.

Claremont had many strange ideas, the most striking of which was the belief that boys felt
a passionate love for poetry. The average boy has probably read all the poetry he will ever
read terms before he ever reaches the Fifth Form. By the time he is in Shell he has learnt
to appreciate Kipling, the more choice bits of Don Juan and a few plain-spoken passages in
Shakespeare. If English Literature were taught differently, if he were led by stages from Macaulay
to Scott, from Byron to Rossetti, he might perhaps appreciate the splendid heritage of song,
but as it is, swung straight from If to the Ode to the Nightingale he finds the "shy beauty"
of Keats most unutterable nonsense. Claremont, however, thought otherwise, and ran his form
accordingly. In repetition this was especially noticeable. Kennedy, a small boy with glasses,
who was always word-perfect, would nervously mumble through Henry V's speech (they always learnt
Shakespeare) in an accurate but totally uninspired way. Mansell would stand at the back of
the form and blunder out blank verse, much of which was his own, and little of which was Shakespeare,
but which certainly sounded most impressive.

"Well, Kennedy," Claremont would say, "you certainly know your words very well, but I can't
bear the way you say them. Five out of twenty. Mansell, you evidently have made little attempt
to learn your repetition at all, but I love your fervour. One so rarely finds anyone really
affected by the passion of poetry. Fifteen out of twenty."

