It was contended, among the reasons assigned by the Attorney for the United States for the
admission of those pamphlets in evidence to the jury, that some three or four of them were
endorsed with the words "read this and circulate," in the handwriting of the traverser, and
this was evidence of malice in the publication of the pamphlet charged in the first count,
and of which evidence of the publication has been offered to the jury. But this pamphlet last
spoken of had also the same words written on it: whatever evidence of malice may be inferred
from these words, is furnished by the said pamphlet itself, and therefore it is not necessary
to resort to other sources for such evidence. It is true that a multiplication of the same
inscriptions on other pamphlets may, and do, manifest greater zeal, and more intense interest
in the subject matter of the writings, and indicate an intention on the part of the writer
of such inscriptions to publish them. The malice which the law denounces is in the publication,
not in the writing or composition: a man may express his thoughts or opinions in writing with
impunity, and is as innocent in the eye of the law (provided he keeps such writings or compositions
locked up from the public eye) as if they were locked up in his own mind. Is not an indication
or manifestation of an intention to publish certain writings or printed compositions, and the
withholding the execution of such intention as strong evidence of change of purpose from fear
of the consequences or for other reasons, as of malice in the publication of one of them in
the way, and under the circumstances, in which the one charged to have been published in the
first count was published? It is very clear, it seems to me, that if there were no other evidence
of any other publication of any of the pamphlets in question, than the inscription on the corner
"read this and circulate," that the indictment could not be sustained, because such inscriptions,
if the pamphlets are never shown to any other person, is in the eye of the law harmless. If,
then, we are asked to admit such inscriptions or pamphlets never shown to, or seen by any other
person within this District, because there is evidence that one such pamphlet was permitted
to be seen and partly read by another, must we not look at the evidence which proves such exhibition
of such pamphlets, and connect that with such inscriptions on other pamphlets not published,
to see how far such inscriptions go to fortify and strengthen the evidence of malice as to
the published pamphlets? In other words, to see what legal inferences of additional evidence
such inscriptions afford? If this were a case of ordinary importance, I should say without
much hesitation, that they afford no such inferences. It is for the jury to draw inferences
of guilt or malice from circumstances; they are fully competent to do so in the present case
from the evidence now before them; but it is often and almost always a nice point for a court
to instruct a jury from what circumstances or facts inferences of guilt or malice may be drawn.
It is saying, Gentlemen of the jury, such and such a circumstance, if proved to your satisfaction,
is evidence from which you may and ought to find against the traverser. It satisfies our minds
and ought to satisfy yours. But juries ought and will judge for themselves in criminal cases;
and I have always thought it a delicate matter in criminal cases, to give such instructions
to juries. Here we are not asked to give an instruction; but we are asked to permit evidence
to go the jury, which, if allowed, carries with it the opinion of the court that such evidence
affords inference of malice. I must see such inference pretty clear myself, before I give my
sanction to the jury to draw such inference themselves. It is true the law denounces any published
writing having a tendency to produce a breach of peace, or insurrection, or to jeopardize the
general rights of property, whether the intent of the writer was wicked or innocent, as libellous.
The writing itself being of a libellous character, is of itself evidence of malice in the publication,
and it would be no excuse for the publisher to say, I meant no harm, I thought I was doing
good. In the eye of the law he is as guilty as if this intention was really wicked. This is
called implied malice, in the absence of any other proof of malice than what is offered by
the internal evidence of the writing itself. Now the object of the motion to lay before the
jury other libellous papers, can be for no other purpose than to prove express malice; for
the published libel charged in the first count, if it contain libellous matter, and was published,
is of itself, sufficient proof of implied malice, and if it be not libellous, no other libellous
writing can be introduced to make it so. Then, if it be libellous itself, it implies malice;
and if other similar writings be introduced to prove malice, what does it amount to but proving
the implied malice of one libel by the implied malice of other libels? Or, if it be said that
some evidence of express malice has been laid before the jury, can you make this evidence more
strong or clear by evidence of implied malice, contained in other similar writings not published?
Upon the whole, I do not distinctly see, under all the circumstances of this case, how the
unpublished writings can be admitted to prove the implied malice to be gathered from them if
they had been published, the implied malice in the libel charged and allowed to have been published,
or how such evidence of implied malice in them, can be brought to prove express malice in the
publication of the charged libel in the first count. I am against the motion.

Mr. Key, for the United States, then offered to prove the publication by the defendant of the
libels stated in the first, second, and third counts, by proving the following facts, viz:
that a large collection of libels, and among them several copies of those charged in those
counts, with the words "read and circulate" in his handwriting, were found upon the traverser--that
he undertook to account for their being in his possession, and gave untrue and contradictory
accounts--that he acknowledged that he had brought here those then shown to him, being the
same now in court, and that they comprehended all he brought here, except about a dozen; and
that prior to the traverser's arrest sundry similar publications had been privately sent to
various persons in this District by some unknown person or persons in this District.

After arguments which occupied nearly the whole of Saturday, in which the counsel on both sides
displayed great learning and ingenuity,

The Court delivered the opinion that the Attorney for the United States may give evidence of
the publication, in this District, of any copies of the libels charged in the first and second
counts of the indictment. That if he shall have given any evidence tending to show such a publication
here, he will be permitted to show that other copies of the same libels were found in the possession
of the defendant. He may then give evidence that a certain number of papers or pamphlets were
found in the possession of the defendant, together with the copies of the libels charged, and
of the publication of which in this District, he shall have given evidence; but he will not
be permitted to give in evidence to the jury the contents of any of the papers other than those
charged as libels in this indictment, unless such other papers have relation to the libels
charged in the indictment, and would not in themselves be substantive ground of prosecution.
He may then give evidence to the jury of any confessions or acknowledgments made by the defendant
in relation to any of the matters charged in the indictment.

The District Attorney then put in evidence as follows, to show that the prisoner had many similar
libels in his possession, and that others were distributed throughout the District.

H. B. Robertson, constable, deposed that he found some tracts on Dr. Crandall's table at his
office in Georgetown. Don't recollect how many. There were also a number of them at his lodgings,
in a trunk. He denied to me that he had distributed any, but did not conceal or deny that he
was in possession of them. He mentioned that he was formerly a subscriber to the Emancipator,
but they had stopped it, and he had taken them in its place. They were sent to him from New
York, and came in a box by water, and not by mail. Witness collected and brought them to the
jail, tied up in a handkerchief. Being fearful of some trouble when he got into the hack, he
proposed to Mr. Jeffers to take Crandall to the jail through the back streets, and keep him
there during the night, for fear he might be wrested from us and lynched. It was Dr. Crandall's
desire to be taken out of the way of the people, and be carried to the jail. Before they left
the office a crowd had collected, and they made an effort to get off as quick as possible,
being very apprehensive that Dr. Crandall would suffer some harsh treatment, and serious injury
from them. The event verified his expectations, for he found afterwards that the carriage was
waited for somewhere on the avenue, where it was expected to pass, by a numerous and excited
collection of people.

Cross examined.--Conversed with Dr. Crandall at his office and on the way to the jail. Went
to his lodgings, and found Emancipators there. Did not offer to carry him before a magistrate
in Georgetown. Told Dr. Crandall what my apprehensions were for his personal safety, and of
being waylaid, and proposed that he should stay at the jail that night. He attempted no concealment,
and gave witness free leave to search his papers, &c. Witness found Boston, New York, and Baltimore
newspapers, and a great many Telegraphs. Dr. Crandall opened the trunk himself and showed the
tracts. Don't remember whether they were loose, or tied together and enveloped. Those were
the pamphlets now in court. Don't recollect whether the letters were brought away. There were
many plants in the office. Don't know what they were put up in. Think it was pasteboard, or
something like it. Asked him if he was Dr. Crandall, to which he replied yes. Then told him
that he was charged with being an abolition agent and exhibited the warrant for his arrest.
He did not then say any thing about the tracts in his possession, but when they were found
he stated they were sent to him from New York, instead of the Emancipator, to which he had
formerly been a subscriber. He did remark that he had not distributed any tracts of the kind.

Question by Key. Which of the pamphlets did you find at the office, and which at the house?

Coxe objected to the question.

Key. I wish to know which kind were sent to Crandall in the box from New York.

Cranch, C. J., saw no objection to the question.

Witness then stated that he found the Anti-Slavery Reporters in the office. Did not recollect
any others in the office, except the newspapers. The other tracts, together with some books,
were found in his trunk at the house. Crandall did not say all the papers came in the box.
Did not endeavor to elicit any confessions from Dr. Crandall, and, in fact, reminded him that
he and Mr. Jeffers might be called on as witnesses. Witness recollected that, during the examination,
there was a paper produced by Dr. Crandall, who was too much agitated to read it. One of the
magistrates attempted to read it, but don't know whether it was read or not. Dr. Crandall was
much agitated. There was a great excitement outside the jail, and much alarm in it. Dr. Crandall
was arrested on the 10th, and examined on the 11th of August.

Witness remembers that there was a conversation in the hack, as they were coming from Georgetown
to the jail, in which the following question was asked Dr. Crandall:--"Don't you think it would
be rather dangerous, at the present time, to set all the negroes free?" Don't recollect the
precise words of the reply, but he inferred from it----

The Court interposed. We don't want your inferences, Mr. Robertson; give us the facts, if you
please.

Well, if it please the Court, continued Mr. Robertson, my impression was, at the time, that
Dr. Crandall's reply amounted to this--that he was for abolition, without regard to consequences.
Mr. Jeffers asked the Doctor if he did not think that abolition would produce amalgamation
and also endanger the security of the whites. The doctor did not object to these consequences.
He thought the negroes ought to be as free as we were.

M. Jeffers, constable, deposed that he saw some pamphlets endorsed "please read and circulate"
in Dr. Crandall's office. Witness, when he entered the office, said, "we want all your incendiary
tracts, Doctor." Witness looked into a large box and saw the pamphlets.

The box was without cover, and the pamphlets lay in a corner. At his lodgings, more pamphlets
were found. Don't know how many there were in the box. Those in the trunk, at the house, were
nearly all new. Dr. Crandall explained that they had stopped the Emancipator and sent the pamphlets
in lieu of it. Think he said they were sent around in a vessel, in a box. Witness asked him
what he was doing with so many of them. The reply was that he had procured them for information.
Don't recollect that any of the botanical specimens were in newspapers. He said they had stopped
sending papers weekly and sent them monthly. Witness asked what he was doing with so many of
the same numbers at the same time, to which he replied that they all came in the box, and that
he wanted them merely for information. Witness looked into, and not liking their language,
remarked that he did not see how any one could derive much improvement from such stuff.

Witness recollected that there was a paper which Dr. Crandall tried to read, but was prevented
from reading, by extreme agitation. Dr. Crandall rolled it up and put it in his pocket. He
was much agitated, and witness thought, at the time, that he was indiscreet in so freely expressing
his sentiments. No pamphlets with the endorsement "read and circulate" were found in the trunk.
When Crandall was asked why he wanted so many of the same number of the Anti-Slavery Reporter
for information, he made no reply. In the course of the conversation in the hack, Crandall
said he did not intend to deny his principles. Witness asked him if colonization would not
be better than abolition. He replied: No; he was in favor of immediate emancipation.

Question by Bradley. Did he not say, "I am for immediate preparation for emancipation." Witness
did not recollect precisely. That might have been the answer. Would not say it was not. When
he said he was in favor of immediate emancipation, witness remarked that it would be attended
with dreadful consequences. We should all have our throats cut, and the next thing would be
amalgamation.

Thruston, J. Would the amalgamation occur after our throats are cut, Mr. Jeffers?

Witness. Dr. Crandall in reply to this remark, said, "well let the law take care of all that."

B. K. Morsell, Esq., one of the justices who committed the traverser, stated that, at the examination
of the traverser in the jail, the witness just examined, Henry King, deposed that the pamphlet
which he took from Crandall's office had written upon it the words "please to read and circulate."
This deposition was made in the presence of Crandall, and Crandall did not pretend to deny
it, and admitted that the words were in his own handwriting. He said that when he was about
to take passage in the steamboat, at New York, there was a bundle of pamphlets brought to him.
Don't recollect whether he said they were brought to him before or after he went on board of
the boat. Don't remember whether Crandall said they were sent or brought to him. He stated
that he was then on his way to this city. A bundle of pamphlets were brought into the jail,
at the time of the examination. Crandall said that all he brought on were there, except twelve
or thirteen. Crandall did not state at what time the words "please read and circulate" were
written upon the pamphlets. There was no distinction drawn between those which were endorsed
and those which were not. They were all thrown together. Don't recollect that Crandall made
any distinction in regard to them. He was understood to speak of all the pamphlets together.
The only contradiction in Crandall's statement was that he, at first, said that pamphlets were
brought to him as he was leaving New York in the boat, and afterwards said they had been in
his possession for some time. Witness looked at some of them and saw that some were of older
date than others. Could not distinctly recollect which were of old and which of new date. There
was a considerable interval between the dates, but don't remember how long. While the examination
was going on, there was a great commotion outside of the jail, and a loud knocking at the door;
the prisoner seemed agitated, which was not wonderful, considering the circumstances. Don't
recollect that he said any thing about the time when the words "please read and circulate"
were written on the pamphlets.

Mr. Key here admitted that he recollected hearing the prisoner say, at the examination in the
jail, that the endorsements were written two years before.

Mr. Morsell continued. Don't remember that Crandall presented a written paper. Think it likely
he did. There were three magistrates sitting, and it might have been given to one of the other
two. He believed it appeared, on the examination, that Crandall had been in this District some
months.

Clement T. Coote, Esq., one of the magistrates who examined the traverser in the jail, deposed
that Henry King, upon his examination, stated that the words "please read and circulate" were
written upon the pamphlet when he got it from Crandall. A bundle of the tracts were brought
in. Crandall said he had received them just as he was leaving New York, on his way to this
District. He was going down to the boat when they were brought to him. Crandall stated, as
witness distinctly recollects, that the endorsements were made some time before. Witness did
not recollect that he stated the precise time, but that he said the endorsements were made
some time before. Did not recollect that he said he came on directly to Washington. After the
pamphlets were shown to King and Crandall, witness's impression was that Crandall had been
detained some where on the way, and in the interval had written the words. There was no contradiction
that he noticed in Crandall's statements. Crandall admitted that the words were in his handwriting,
but said they were written some time before. Crandall said they were all there except about
a dozen. He did not say whether he had distributed any; but witness did not understand him
to state that the number had been diminished since he came here, but that the bundle exhibited
embraced all the tracts which he brought with him from New York. Witness's impression that
they were all the pamphlets which witness brought to the District, except the one which he
lent to King; but Crandall did not in his statement except that one. He understood Crandall
that all that he received at New York were there, except about a dozen. He recollected that
Crandall said he had been a subscriber to some of the abolition publications. Witness or one
of the magistrates asked Crandall "whether he was aware of the nature of the pamphlets when
he left New York?" To which Crandall replied that he supposed them to be of the character with
those for which he had been in the habit of subscribing. Crandall was also asked "why he was
put in possession by the publishers of so many copies of the pamphlets, and whether it was
not because they supposed he would circulate them and be an efficient agent?" In reply to which
Crandall said "it might be so." He did not intimate that he had any knowledge of his appointment
as an agent.

The Court here asked witness whether the traverser intimated that the tracts were given to
him with his assent and approbation.

Witness. He admitted that the tracts contained his sentiments; but he was not understood to
say that he approved of his appointment as an agent, or considered himself as acting in that
capacity. When Crandall said the endorsements were written some time ago, witness called his
attention to the date of one which was not two years ago. Witness received a written statement
from Crandall at the examination. Does not know what became of it. Thinks it was returned to
Crandall. Crandall did not say he knew the contents of the tracts when he received them, but
said he supposed they were of similar character to those which he had subscribed for. Witness
read a paper which contained Crandall's statement on the subject, and recollects that it was
written in the jail. Has no recollection that it stated that Crandall was a member of an Abolition
or Emancipation Society. When witness called Crandall's attention to the endorsements on the
tracts, Crandall said they had been on some time. Believes he said something about two years,
and recollects that he then remarked to Crandall that one of them had not been published two years.

B. K. Morsell, Esq., (called again) stated that Crandall, when asked whether he was acquainted
with the nature of the pamphlets sent to him in New York, said he supposed that they contained
his sentiments, and were of the same character with those which he had taken some time before.
He used these very words, "I don't pretend to deny that I am an anti-slavery man, and profess
these sentiments." The pamphlets were then before us, and the examination referred to them.
He added, that when he came on here, he found he was too far South to circulate the tracts,
and that all he had received were those before us, except about a dozen. He did not deny that
he came direct to this city from New York. He said nothing which impressed witness with the
belief that he stopped on the road, if he said he stopped on the way, witness did not hear
it. There was considerable confusion in the jail during the examination. Crandall might have
said many things which witness did not hear. There were a great many people in the jail. He
recollected that Crandall said the words "please read and circulate" were written two years
before, and that Mr. Coote pointed to a pamphlet, so endorsed, which had been printed within
two years; but he understood that Crandall's statement was applied to all the pamphlets together.
He understood that some of the pamphlets were found at Crandall's office, and some at his lodgings,
and that they were found scattered about the office.

Does not recollect that there was any testimony about unpacking a box. There was nothing in
the testimony which made any impression that there was any distinction between the pamphlets.
They were all brought together. Recollects that Crandall handed him a written paper. Began
reading it, but could not get through with it; could not read it, and handed it back to Crandall;
supposed that it was written under some agitation.

Jacob Oyster knew the prisoner in Georgetown, and prisoner hired a shop of him. He was sick
some time after he hired it, but had a large box put into it. When he hired it he said he was
going to lecture on botany at different places. Witness was present when he opened the box,
and it contained books, surgical instruments, and pamphlets. He saw two or three such pamphlets
as were shown in court, which were thrown out of the box. Mr. King came in and picked up a
pamphlet and said he should like to have the reading of one; and the prisoner said he might.
When King saw it, he said it would not answer, it was too far South. A day or two after he
asked King what he thought of it, and he said he didn't like it, and asked witness if he had
seen the endorsement, which he showed, "read and circulate." Witness didn't see any writing
on the others. He had some conversation with Crandall when the news first came of the attempt
to murder Mrs. Thornton, and told prisoner nobody was to blame but the New Yorkers and their
aid de camps; and that the boy said he had made use of their abolition pamphlets. Crandall
replied, that he didn't approve of putting them into circulation, for the excitement was too
high already.

Cross-examined. He said he helped unpack the box--that he knew of no other pamphlets; but Crandall
had newspapers to put up his plants. Witness was in the shop almost every day, and never saw
more than two or three people there; and never saw Crandall talking with any colored people
or slaves. He was in the habit of going out into the fields, and brought back a great many
plants. He thought the prisoner conducted himself very well, and was a very steady man in every
respect. The papers in his office were of all sorts, and from different cities.

William Robinson saw the words "read and circulate," but had never seen the defendant write.
He had received similar publications but did not know where they came from. One came through
the post-office, but was not postmarked where it was sent from; and had no postage on it. He
returned it to New York to the publisher. He heard Crandall admit the handwriting to be his
in the jail.

Charles Gordon was in the War Department, and the whole building was flooded by them. He returned
his to New York to the agent with remarks, and had received none since. This was just before
Crandall's arrest.

Coxe remarked he had done the same; and it was no evidence against Crandall.

The Court was of opinion that the printing and publishing these pamphlets in New York, is not
evidence of their publication here, so as to fix upon the defendant here such a knowledge of
their publication as to make his possession alone, even with the words "read and circulate"
written upon them, evidence of the publication of them by him here.

That in order to show the evil intent with which the defendant published the paper charged
in this first count, it is not competent for the United States to give in evidence to the jury
other unpublished papers or pamphlets found in the defendant's possession, unless accompanied
by evidence of some acknowledgment or admission, by the defendant, that he knew and approved
their contents.

That the evidence did not appear to the Court to justify the inference that the defendant knew
and approved the contents of those pamphlets, unless it can be connected with evidence that
they were of the same nature with those which he had been a subscriber for.

Key then proposed, as he had shown that the traverser had by his declaration approved of the
publications, and had also implied approval by writing on the words read and circulate, to
put them in as evidence of intent, in relation to the one published, and given to the witness King.

The Court ruled that they could not be given in evidence, without proof of publication.

Key then proposed to read the Emancipator, as a paper he had subscribed for, instead of which
these had been sent.

