No. 52.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

CONTENTS.

                                                              Page

  NOTES:--

  Address to our Friends                                       353

  Shakspeare's Use of the Words "Captious" and "Intenible,"
  by S. W. Singer      354

  Oratories of the Nonjurors, by J. Yeowell                    354

  Hogarth's Illustrations of Hudibras                          355

  Folk Lore:--Overyssel Superstition--Death-bed Superstitions--Popular
  Rhyme--Death-bed Mystery--Bradshaw
  Family                                                       356

  Advice to the Editor, and Hints to his Contributors          357

  Minor Notes:--Rollin's Ancient History and History
  of the Arts and Sciences--Jezebel--Clarendon, Oxford
  Edition of 1815--Macaulay's Country Squire--Miching
  Mallecho                                                     357

  QUERIES:--

  The Inquisition: The Bohemian Persecution                    358

  Minor Queries:--Osnaburg Bishopric--Meaning of
 "Farlief"--Margaret Dyneley--Tristan d'Acunha--Production
  of Fire by Friction--Murderer hanged
  when pardoned--Passage from Burke--Licensing of
  Books--Le Bon Gendarme                                       358

  REPLIES:--

  Tasso translated by Fairfax                                  359

  Ale-Draper--Eugene Aram                                      360

  On the Word "Gradely," by B. H. Kennedy and
  G. J. Cayley                                                 361

  Collar of Esses      362

  Replies to Minor Queries:--Symbols of the Evangelists--Becket's
  Mother--Passage in Lucan--Combs buried
  with the Dead--The Norfolk Dialect--Conflagration
  of the Earth--Wraxen                                         363

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                       366

  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                                 367

  Notices to Correspondents                                    367

  Advertisements                                               367

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

ADDRESS TO OUR FRIENDS.

We this day publish our fifty-second Number. Every Saturday, for twelve months, have we presented
to our subscribers our weekly budget of "NOTES," "QUERIES," and "REPLIES;" and in so doing,
we trust, we have accomplished some important ends. We have both amused and instructed the
general reader; we have stored up much curious knowledge for the use of future writers; we
have procured for scholars now engaged in works of learning and research, many valuable pieces
of information which had evaded their own immediate pursuit; and, lastly, in doing all this,
we have powerfully helped forward the great cause of literary truth.

In our Prospectus and opening address we made no great promise of what our paper should be.
That, we knew, must depend upon how far the medium of intercommunication we had prepared should
be approved and adopted by those for whose special use it had been projected. We laid down
a literary railway: it remained to be seen whether the world of letters would travel by it.
They have done so: we have been especially patronised by first-class passengers, and in such
numbers that we were obliged last week to run an extra train.

At the end of our first twelvemonth we thank our subscribers for the patronage we have received.
We trust we shall go on week by week improving in our work of usefulness, so that at the end
of the next twelvemonth we may meet them with the same pleasure as on the present occasion.
We will continue to do whatever is in our power, and we rely upon our friends to help us.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE'S USE OF THE WORDS "CAPTIOUS" AND "INTENIBLE."

Johnson was perplexed about the word captious; "which (says he) I never found in this sense,
yet I cannot tell what to substitute, unless carious for rotten!" Farmer supposed captious
to be a contraction of capacious! Steevens believed that captious meant recipient, capable
of receiving; which interpretation Malone adopts. Mr. Collier, in his recent edition of Shakspeare,
after stating Johnson's and Farmer's suggestions, says, "where is the difficulty? It is true
that this sense of captious may not have an exact parallel; but the intention of Shakspeare
is very evident: captious means, as Malone says, capable of taking or receiving; and intenible
(printed intemible in the first folio, and rightly in the second) incapable of retaining. Two
more appropriate epithets could hardly be found, and a simile more happily expressive."

We no doubt all know, by intuition as it were, what Shakspeare meant; but "the great master
of English," as MR. HICKSON very justly calls him, would never have used captious, as applied
figuratively to a sieve, for capable of taking or receiving.

Intenible, notwithstanding the hypercriticism of Mr. Nares (that "it is incorrectly used by
Shakspeare for unable to hold;" and that "it should properly mean not to be held, as we now
use untenable") was undoubtedly used in the former sense, and it was most probably so accepted
in the poet's time; for in the Glossagraphia Anglicana Nova, 1719, we have "Untenable, that
will not or cannot hold or be holden long."

With regard to captious, it is not so much a matter of surprise that none of all these learned
commentators should fail in their guesses at the meaning, as that none of them should have
remarked that the sense of the Latin captiosus, and of its congeners in Italian and old French,
is deceitful, fallacious; and Bacon uses the word for insidious, ensnaring. There can be no
doubt that this is the sense in which Shakspeare used it. Helen speaks of her hopeless love
for Bertram, and says:

    "I know I love in vain, strive against hope; yet in this fallacious
    and unholding sieve I still pour in the waters of my love, and fail
    not to lose still."

When we speak of a captious person, do we mean one capable of taking or receiving? Then how
much more absurd would it be to take it in that impossible sense, when figuratively applied
in the passage before us! Bertram shows himself incapable of receiving Helena's love: he is
truly captious in that respect.

In French the word captieux, according to the Academy, is only applied to language, though
we may say un homme captieux to signify a man who has the art of deceiving or leading into
error by captious language.

It is not impossible that the poet may have had in his mind the fruitless labour imposed upon
the Danaïdes as a punishment, for it has been thus moralised:

    "These virgins, who in the flower of their age pour water into pierced
    vessels which they can never fill, what is it but to be always
    bestowing over love and benefits upon the ungrateful."

S. W. SINGER.

Mickleham, Oct. 4. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORATORIES OF THE NONJURORS.

As the nooks and corners of London in olden times are now engaging the quiet musings of most
of the topographical brotherhood, perhaps you can spare a nook or a corner of your valuable
periodical for a few notes on the Oratories of those good men and true--the Nonjurors. "These
were honourable men in their generation," and were made of most unbending materials.

{355} On the Feast of St. Matthias, Feb. 24, 1693, the consecrations of Dr. George Hickes and
Thomas Wagstaffe were solemnly performed according to the rites of the Church of England, by
Dr. William Lloyd, bishop of Norwich; Dr. Francis Turner, bishop of Ely; and Dr. Thomas White,
bishop of Peterborough, at the Bishop of Peterborough's lodgings, at the Rev. William Giffard's
house at Southgate in Middlesex: Dr. Ken, bishop of Bath and Wells, giving his consent.

Henry Hall was consecrated bishop in the oratory of the Rev. Father in Christ, John B---- [Blackburne?],
in Gray's Inn, on the festival of St. Barnabas, June 11, 1725.

Hilkiah Bedford was consecrated in the oratory of the Rev. R---- R---- [Richard Rawlinson],
in Gray's Inn, on the festival of St. Paul, Jan. 25, 1720. Ralph Taylor was also consecrated
at the same time and place.

Henry Gandy was consecrated at his oratory in the parish of St. Andrew's, Holborn, on the festival
of St. Paul, Jan. 25, 1716.

Grascome was interrupted by a messenger whilst he was ministering to his little congregation
in Scroope's Court, near St. Andrew's Church.

Jeremy Collier officiated at Broad Street, London, assisted by the Rev. Samuel Carte, the father
of the historian.

Mr. Hawkes officiated for some time at his own house opposite to St. James' Palace.

On Easter-day, April 13, 1718, at the oratory of his brother, Mr. William Lee, dyer, in Spitalfields,
Dr. Francis Lee read a touching and beautiful declaration of his faith, betwixt the reading
of the sentences at the offertory and the prayer for the state of Christ's church. It was addressed
to the Rev. James Daillon, Count de Lude, then officiating.

Charles Wheatly, author of A Rational Illustration of the Book of Common Prayer, in a letter
to Dr. Rawlinson, the nonjuring titular bishop of London, says:

    "I believe most of the books in Mr. Laurence's catalogue were really in
    his library. Most of his chapel furniture I had seen; but his pix, and
    his cruet, his box for unguent, and oil, I suppose you do not inquire
    after."

Roger Laurence was the learned author of Lay Baptism Invalid. Query, Where did he officiate?

The Rev. John Lindsay, the translator of Mason's Vindication of the Church of England, for
many years officiated as minister of a nonjuring congregation in Trinity Chapel, Aldersgate
Street, and is said to have been their last minister.

Thoresby, in his Diary, May 18, 1714, says, "I visited Mr. Nelson (author of the Fasts and
Festivals), and the learned Dr. George Hickes, who not being at liberty for half an hour, I
had the benefit of the prayers in the adjoining church, and when the Nonjuring Conventicle
was over, I visited the said Dean Hickes, who is said to be bishop of ----" [Thetford]. Both
Nelson and Hickes resided at this time in Ormond Street; probably the conventicle was at one
of their houses. It should be noted that Thoresby, having quitted the Conventicles of the Dissenters,
had only recently joined what he calls the Church established by law. He appears to have known
as much about the principles of the Nonjurors as he did of Chinese music.

Dr. Welton's chapel in Goodman's Fields being visited (1717) by Colonel Ellis and other justices
of the peace, with proper assistants, about two hundred and fifty persons were found there
assembled, of whom but forty would take the oaths. The doctor refusing them also, was ordered
to be proceeded against according to law.

This reminds me of another Query. What has become of Dr. Welton's famous Whitechapel altar-piece,
which Bishop Compton drove out of his church. Some doubts have been expressed whether that
is the identical one in the Saint's Chapel of St. Alban's Abbey. A friend has assured the writer
that he had seen it about twenty years ago, at a Roman Catholic meeting-house in an obscure
court at Greenwich. It is not there now. The print of it in the library of the Society of Antiquaries
is accompanied with these MS. lines by Mr. Mattaire:--

 "To say the picture does to him belong,
  Kennett does Judas and the painter wrong;
  False is the image, the resemblance faint,
  Judas, compared to Kennett, was a saint."

One word more. The episcopal seal of the nonjuring bishops was a shepherd with a sheep upon
his shoulders. The crozier which had been used by them, was, in 1839, in the possession of
John Crossley Esq., of Scaitcliffe, near Todmorden.

J. YEOWELL.

Hoxton.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOGARTH'S ILLUSTRATIONS OF HUDIBRAS.

    "Butler's Hudibras, by Zach. Grey, LL.D. 2 vols. 8vo. Cambridge,
    1744.

    "Best edition. Copies in fine condition are in considerable request.
    The cuts are beautifully engraved, and Hogarth is much indebted to the
    designer of them; but who he was does not appear."

The above remarks in Lowndes's Bibliographical Manual having caught my attention, they appeared
to me somewhat obscure and contradictory; and as they seemed rather disparaging to the fame
of Hogarth, of whose works and genius I am a warm admirer, I have taken some pains to ascertain
what may have been Mr. Lowndes's meaning.

On examining the plates in Dr. Grey's edition, they are all inscribed "W. Hogarth inv^t, J.
Mynde sc^t." {356} How, then, can Hogarth be said to be much indebted to the designer of them,
if we are to believe the words on the plates themselves--"W. Hogarth inv^t"?

It is clear that Mr. Lowndes supposes the designer of these plates to have been some person
distinct from Hogarth; and he was right in his conjecture; but he was ignorant of the name
of the artist alluded to.

Whoever he was, he can have little claim to be regarded as the original designer; he was rather
employed as an expurgator; for these plates are certainly copies of the two sets of plates
invented and engraved by Hogarth himself in 1726.

All that this second designer performed was, to revise the original designs of Hogarth's, in
order to remove some glaring indecencies; and this, no doubt, is what Mr. Lowndes means, when
he says that "Hogarth is much indebted to the designer of them."

The following passage in a letter from Dr. Ducaral to Dr. Grey, dated Inner Temple, May 10th,
1743, printed In Nichols's Illustrations, will furnish us with the name of the artist in question:--

    "I was at Mr. Isaac Wood's the painter, who showed me the twelve
    sketches of Hudibras, which he designs for you. I think they are
    extremely well adapted to the book, and that the designer shows how
    much he was master of the subject."

In the preface to this edition, Dr. Grey expresses his obligations "to the ingenious Mr. Wood,
painter, of Bloomsbury-square."

In the fourth volume of Nichols's Illustrations of Literature are some interesting letters
from Thos. Potter, Esq., to Dr. Grey, which throw much light on the subject of this edition
of Hudibras.

I cannot conclude these observations without expressing my dissent from the praise bestowed
upon the engravings in this work. Mr. Lowndes says "the cuts are beautifully engraved." With
the exception of the head of Butler by Vertue, the rest are very spiritless and indifferent
productions.

J. T. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Overyssel Superstition.--Stolen bees will not thrive; they pine away and die.

JANUS DOUSA.

Death-bed Superstitions.--When a child is dying, people, in some parts of Holland, are accustomed
to shade it by the curtains from the parent's gaze; the soul being supposed to linger in the
body as long as a compassionate eye is fixed upon it. Thus, in Germany, he who sheds tears
when leaning over an expiring friend, or, bending over the patient's couch, does but wipe them
off, enhances, they say, the difficulty of death's last struggle. I believe the same poetical
superstition is recorded in Mary Barton, a Tale of Manchester Life.

JANUS DOUSA.

Popular Rhyme.--The following lines very forcibly express the condition of many a "country
milkmaid," when influence or other considerations render her incapable of giving a final decision
upon the claims of two opposing suitors. They are well known in this district, and I have been
induced to offer them for insertion, in the hope that if any of your correspondents are possessed
of any variations or additional stanzas, they may be pleased to forward them to your interesting
publication.

 "Heigh ho! my heart is low,
  My mind runs all on one;
  W for William true,
  But T for my love Tom."

T. W.

Burnley, Lancashire

Death-bed Mystery.--It may, perhaps, interest MR. SANSOM to be informed that the appearance
described to him is mentioned as a known fact in one of the works of the celebrated mystic,
Jacob Behmen, The Three Principles, chap. 19. "Of the going forth of the Soul." I extract from
J. Sparrow's translations., London, 1648.

    "Seeing then that Man is so very earthly, therefore he hath none but
    earthly knowledge, except he be regenerated in the Gate of Deep. He
    always supposeth that the Soul (at the deceasing of the Body) goeth
    only out at the Mouth, and he understandeth nothing concerning its deep
    Essences above the Elements. When he seeth a blue Vapor go forth out
    of the Mouth of a dying Man (which maketh a strong smell all over the
    chamber), then he supposeth that is the Soul."

A. ROFFE.

Bradshaw Family.--There is a popular belief in this immediate part of the country, which was
formerly a stronghold of the Jacobites, that no Bradshaw has ever flourished since the days
of the regicide. They point to old halls formerly in possession of Bradshaws, now passed into
other hands, and shake their heads and say, "It is a bad name,--no Bradshaw will come to good."
I heard this speech only yesterday in connexion with Halton Hall (on the Lune); but the feeling
is common, and not confined to the uneducated classes.

Haigh Hall remains in the possession of the descendants of the family from which Judge Bradshaw
was descended, because, so said my informant, the heiress married a "loyal Lindsay" (the Earl
of Balcarras).

E. C. G.

Lancaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

{357} ADVICE TO THE EDITOR, AND HINTS TO HIS CONTRIBUTORS.

My signature [Greek: S]. having been adopted by another correspondent, I have been obliged
to discontinue it.

My other signature [Greek: Ph]., which I have used since your commencement, is in your last
number applied to the contribution of another gentleman, although the same number contains
two articles of mine with that signature.

As this is palpably inconvenient, pray accept the following

      ADVICE TO THE EDITOR

  A contributor sending a Note or a Query,
    Considers what signature's better;
  And lest his full name too oft should prove weary,
    He sometimes subscribes with a letter.

  This letter in English or Greek thus selected,
    As his personal mark he engages;
  From piracy, therefore, it should be protected,
    Throughout all the rest of your pages.

  By a contrary practice confusion is sown,
    And annoyance to writers of spirit,
  Who wish not to claim any Notes but their own,
    Or of less or superior merit.

  I submit in such cases no writer would grumble,
    But give you his hearty permission,
  When two correspondents on one mark should stumble,
    To make to the last an addition.

  You are bound to avoid ev'ry point that distresses,
    And prevent all collision that vexes,
  Preserving the right of each collar of SS,
    And warding the blows of cross XX. After having possessed several editions of
the work of Rollin, I now have got Blackie's edition of 1837, in 3 vols.
8vo., edited by Bell; and I learn from its preface that this is the only
edition published since 1740 containing the History of the Arts and
Sciences.

How comes it that the editions since 1740 have been so castrated?

IOTA.

Liverpool, October 16. 1850.

Jezebel.--The name of this queen is, I think, incorrectly translated in all the Bible Dictionaries
and Cyclopædias that have come under my notice. It was common amongst all ancient nations to
give compound names to persons, partly formed from the names of their respective divinities.
This observation applies particularly to the Assyrians, Babylonians, and their dependencies,
together with the Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Egyptians, and Greeks. Hence we find, both in
scripture and profane history, a number of names compounded of Baal, such as Baal-hanan, Gen.
xxxvi. 38., the gift, grace, mercy, or favour of Baal; the name of the celebrated Carthaginian
general, Hannibal, is the same name transposed. The father of the Tyrian prince, Hiram, was
called Abibal, my father is Baal, or Baal is my father. Eshbaal, the fire of Baal; Jerubbaal,
let Baal contend, or defend his cause; Meribaal, he that resists Baal, or strives against the
idol, were Hebrew names, apparently imposed to ridicule those given in honor of Baal. The father
of Jezebel was called Ethbaal, Kings xvi. 31., (classically, Ithobalus,) with Baal, towards
Baal, or him that rules. Lastly, Hasdrubal signifies help or assistance of Baal. Will some
of the talented contributors to "NOTES AND QUERIES" inform me what is the composition and meaning
of Jezebel, as it has hitherto baffled my own individual researches? Is it the contracted feminine
form of Hasdrubal?

W. G. H.

Clarendon, Oxford Edition of 1815.--The following curious fact, relating to the Oxford edition
of Lord Clarendon's History in 1815, was communicated to me by a gentleman who was then officially
interested in the publication, and personally cognisant of the circumstances.

In the year 1815, the University of Oxford determined to reprint Clarendon's History of the
Rebellion, and to add to it that of the Irish rebellion; but as it was suspected by one of
the delegates of the press, that the edition from which they were printing the "Irish Rebellion"
was spurious, as it attributed the origin of the rebellion to the Protestants instead of the
Catholics; a much earlier copy was procured from Dublin, through the chaplain of the then Lord
Lieutenant, which reversed the accusation which was contained in the copy from which the University
had been about to print.

J. T. A.

September 30. 1850.

Macaulay's Country Squire.--I suppose I may take it for granted that all the world has long
since been made merry by Mr. Macaulay's description of "the country squire on a visit to London
in 1685." (History of England, vol. i. p. 369.)

I am not aware that Steele's description of a country gentleman under similar circumstances
has ever been referred to; it is certainly far from being as graphic as Mr. Macaulay's; but
the one may at all events serve to illustrate the other, and to prove that Urbs had not made
any very great progress in urbanity between 1685 and 1712.

C. FORBES.

October 11.

Miching Mallecho.--The Writer of the review of Urquhart's Travels in the Quart. 2. Imagining
that I had seen this ingenious conjecture somewhere in print before, I referred to, and was
disappointed when I found it not in Knight's Shakspeare (library ed.). Recently, in looking
over Dr. Maginn's admirable dissections of Dr. Farmer's Essay on the Learning of Shakspeare,
I discovered what I was in search of, and beg to present it to the notice of your readers.

    "That the text is corrupt, I am sure; and I think Dr. Farmer's
    substitution of mimicking malhecco, a most unlucky attempt at
    emendation. In the old copies it is munching malicho, in which we
    find traces of the true reading, mucho malhecho, much mischief.

    "'Marry, mucho malhécho--it means mischief.'"--Fraser's Magazine,
    Dec. 1839, p. 654.

J. M. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

THE INQUISITION--THE BOHEMIAN PERSECUTION.

