Now what is "proof,"--a substantive or adjective? If the latter, no edition is rightly stopped;
for, of course, there should be a comma after "massy;" and then I somewhat doubt the propriety
of "proof" for "proved," unless joined with another word, as "star-proof," "rain-proof."

If "proof" is a substantive, "massy proof" is in apposition to "antique pillars," and is very
meaningless. Can any of your readers suggest an explanation?

H.A.B.

"Mooney's Goose."--As a pendant to "Ludlam's dog," I beg to insert the proverb of "Full of
fun and fooster, like Mooney's goose," with the hope that your acute and ingenious correspondent
D.V.S. may be able to throw some light upon "Mooney." Let me add that D.V.S. has perhaps somewhat
misconceived my brief comment on Ludlam, which my regard for conciseness has left some deal
obscure; and it does not appear worth while to go over the ground again. I repeatedly heard
"Dick's hat-band" quoted by Lancashire friends exactly as given by Southey. Does not the variation
"cobbler's dog" tend to prove the alliterative principle for which I had been contending?

J.M.B.

Translation of the Philobiblon.--Where can I procure a translation of Robert de Bury's Philobiblon?

L.S.{154}

Achilles and the Tortoise.--Where is the paradox of "Achilles and the Tortoise" to be found?
Leibnitz is said to have given it solution in some part of his works.

There is also a geometrical treatment of the subject by Gregoire de S. Vincent. Will some reading
man oblige me with information or reference concerning it.

[Greek: Idiotaes.]

Dominicals.--I am desirous of obtaining information on a subject of much interest to Exeter.

An ancient payment is made to the rectors of each parish within the city of Exeter, called
"Dominicals," amounting to 1d. per week from every householder within the parish. Payments
of a similar nature are made in London, Canterbury, and I believe Worcester. Can any of your
numerous readers state the origin of Dominicals, and give any information respecting them.

W.R.C.

Yorkshire Dales.--A Pedestrian would be much obliged by being informed if there is any map,
guide, or description published, that would serve as a hand-book to the Dales in the West Riding
of Yorkshire, between Lancashire and Westmoreland.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES

TOBACCO IN THE EAST.

In the Edinburgh Cabinet Library, vol. iii. p. 383., art. "China," it is stated that three
species of tobacco have been found in India and in China, under circumstances which can leave
no doubt of their being native plants.

Dr. Bigelow (American Botany, 4to., vol. ii. p. 171.) tells us that Nicot. fructicosa is said
to have been cultivated in the East prior to the discovery of America. Linnæus sets down the
same as a native of China and the Cape of Good Hope. Sir G. Staunton says that there is no
traditional account of the introduction of tobacco into China; nor is there any account of
its introduction into India[2]; though, according to Barrow, the time when the cotton plant
was introduced into the southern provinces of China is noted in their annals. Bell of Antermony,
who was in China in 1721, says,

    "It is reported the Chinese have had the use of tobacco for many
    ages," &c.--Travels, vol. ii. p. 73., Lond. ed. 4to. 1763.

Ledyard says, the Tartars have smoked from remote antiquity (Travels, 326.). Du Halde speaks
of tobacco as one of the natural productions of Formosa, whence it was largely imported by
the Chinese (p. 173. Lond. ed. 8vo. 1741).

The prevalence of the practice of smoking at an early period among the Chinese is appealed
to by Pallas as one evidence that in Asia, and especially in China, the use of tobacco for
smoking is more ancient than the discovery of the New World. (See Asiat. Journ., vol. xxii.
p. 137.)

The Koreans say they received tobacco from Japan, as also instructions for its cultivation,
about the latter end of the sixteenth century. (Authority, I think, Hamel's Travels, Pink.
Coll., vii. 532.) Loureiro states that in Cochin China tobacco is indigenous, and has its proper
vernacular name.

Java is said to have possessed it before 1496. Dr. Ruschenberg says,

    "We are informed the Portuguese met with it on their first visit
    to Java."--Voy. of U.S.S. Peacock, vol. ii. p. 456, Lond. ed.
    8vo. 1838.

Crauford dates its introduction into Java, 1601, but admits that the natives had traditions
of having possessed it long before. (Indian Archipelago, vol. i. pp. 104. 409, 410. 8vo.) Rumphius,
in the latter part of the seventeenth century, found it universal even where the Portuguese
and Spaniards had never been.

Savary, in his Parfait Négociant, states that the Persians have used tobacco 400 years, and
probably received it from Egypt. (See Med. Chir. Review, 1840, p. 335.)

Olearius found it fully established in Persia, 1637, only about fifty years after its arrival
in England. (Lond. 1662, in fol. p. 322.) Chardin states, the Persians smoked long before the
discovery of America, and had cultivated tobacco time immemorial.

    "Coffee without tobacco is meat without salt."--Persian Proverb,
    Sale's Koran, Preliminary Discourse, 169. ed. 8vo.

In 1634 Olearius found the Russians so addicted to tobacco that they would spend their money
on it rather than bread. (See edit. above quoted, lib. iii. p. 83.)

According to Prof. Lichtenstein, the Beetjuanen smoked and snuffed long before their intercourse
with Europeans. (Med. and Chir. Rev., 1840, p. 335.)

Liebault, in his Maison Rustique, asserts that he found tobacco growing naturally in the forest
of Ardennes. Libavius says that it grows in the Hyrcinian forest. (Ibid.)

Dr. Cleland shows the three last to be falsehoods(?).

Ysbrants Ides found tobacco in general use among the Ostiaks and other tribes passed in his
route to China, 1692. (Harris's Coll., fol. vol. ii. pp. 925. and 926.)

The story told of Amurath IV. punishing a Turk for smoking seems to be a mistake, since Amurath
only began to reign 1622; whereas Sandys relates the same story of a certain Morad Bassa, probably
Murat III., who began to reign {155} 1576, and ended 1594. If this be the case, the Turks were
smokers before tobacco was known in England.--In Persia smoking was prohibited by Shah Abbas.
There were two princes of this name. The first began his reign 1585 A.D., died 1628: the second
began 1641, died 1666. The proclamation against smoking was probably issued by the first, since
(as before mentioned) in 1634 Olearius found the custom firmly established. If so, the Persians
must have been early smokers. Smoking seems to have obtained at a very remote period among
several nations of antiquity. Dr. Clarke quotes Plutarch on Rivers to show that the Thracians
were in the habit of intoxicating themselves with smoke, which he supposes to have been tobacco.
The Quarterly Review is opposed to this.

Lafitau quotes Pomp. Mela and Solin to show the same; also Herodotus and Maximin of Tyre, as
evidences to the same custom prevailing amongst the Scythians, and thinks that Strabo alludes
to tobacco in India. (See, for the Scythians, the Universal History.) Logan, in his Celtic
Gaul, advances that smoking is of great antiquity in Britain. He says that pipes of the Celts
are frequently found, especially at Brannocktown, co. Kildare, where in 1784 they were dug
up in great numbers; that a skeleton dug out of an ancient barrow, actually had a pipe sticking
between its teeth when found. (From Anthol. Hibern., i. 352.) Halloran says Celtic pipes are
found in the Bog of Cullen. In form, these pipes were very similar to those in use at this day.

Eulia Effendi mentions having found a tobacco pipe, still in good preservation, and retaining
a smell of smoke, embeded in the wall of a Grecian edifice more ancient than the birth of Mahomet.
(Med. Chir. Rev. 1840, p. 335.) This Dr. Cleland proves to be a lie(?). He proves the same
of Chardin, Bell of Antermony, Mr. Murray, Pallas, Rumphius, Savary, &c.

Masson describes a "chillum," or smoking apparatus, found embedded in an ancient wall in Beloochistan.
(Travels, ii. 157.)

Dr. Yates saw amongst the paintings in a tomb at Thebes the representation of a smoking party.
(Travels in Egypt, ii. 412.)

There is an old tradition in the Greek Church, said to be recorded in the works of the early
Fathers, of the Devil making Noah drunk with tobacco, &c. (Johnson's Abyssinia, vol. ii. p. 92.)

Nanah, the prophet of the Sikhs, was born 1419. Supposing him fifty when he published his Ordinances,
it would bring us to 1469, or 23 years before the discovery of America by Columbus. In these
Ordinances he forbade the use of tobacco to the Sikhs; but found the habit so deeply rooted
in the Hindû that he made an exception in their favour. (Masson's Beloochistan, vol. i. p.
42.) Should this be true, the Hindû must have been in the habit of smoking long before the
discovery of America, to have acquired so inveterate a predilection for it.

If the prophecy attributed to Mahomet be not a fabrication of after times, it is strongly corroborative,
and goes to show that he was himself acquainted with the practice of smoking, viz.

    "To the latter day there shall be men who will bear the name of
    Moslem, but will not be really such, and they shall smoke a
    certain weed which shall be called tobacco."--See Sale's
    Koran, ed. 8vo. p. 169.

Query. Is tobacco the word in the original? If so, it is a stumbling-block.

Lieut. Burns, in his Travels, has the following curious statement:

    "The city of Alore was the capital of a great empire extending
    from Cachemere to the sea. This was conquered by the Mahomedans
    in the seventh century, and in the decisive battle they are
    reported to have brought fire, &c., in their pipes to frighten
    the elephants."

Lieut. Burns conjectures that they must have smoked bang, &c., tobacco being then unknown.

Buchanan's account of the cultivation and preparation of tobacco in Mysore, carries with it
a conviction that these elaborate processes were never communicated to them by Europeans, nor
brought in any way from America, where they have never been practised. They strike one as peculiarly
ancient and quite indigenous.

The rapid dissemination of tobacco, as also of forms and ceremonies connected with its use;
its already very extensive cultivation in the remotest parts of the continent and islands of
Asia, within a century of its introduction into Europe, amounts to the miraculous; and particularly
when we see new habits of life, and novelties in their ceremonies of state, at once adopted
and become familiar, to such otherwise unchangeable people as the orientals are known to be.
Extraordinary also is the fact that the forms and ceremonies adopted should so precisely coincide
(in most respects) with those in use among the American Indians, and should not be found in
any of the intermediate countries through which we must suppose them to have passed. Who taught
them the presentation of the pipe to guests, a form so strictly observed by the Red Men of
America, &c.? But the "narghile," the "kaleoon," the "hookah," the "hubble-bubble," whence
came they? They are indigenous.

Great stress is laid on the silence of Marco Polo, Rubruquis,--the two Mahomedans, Drake, Cavendish,
and Pigafelta; also of the Arabian Nights, on the subject of smoking,--and with reason; but,
after all, it is negative evidence: for we have examples of the same kind the other way. Sir
Henry Blount, who was in Turkey in 1634, describes manners and customs very minutely without
a single allusion to smoking, though we know {156} that twenty years previously to that date
the Turks were inveterate smokers. M. Adr. Balbi insists likewise on the prevalence of the
Haïtian name "tambaku" being conclusive as to the introduction of tobacco from America. This,
however, is not exactly the case: in many countries of the East it has vernacular names. In
Ceylon it is called "dun-kol" or smoke-leaf; in China, "tharr"--Barrow says, "yen."

The Yakuti (and Tungusi?) call it "schaar." The Crim Tartars call it "tütün." The Koreans give
it the name of the province of Japan whence they first received it. In the Tartar (Calmuc and
Bashkir?) "gansa" is a tobacco-pipe. In America itself tobacco has many names, viz. "goia,"
"gozobba" or "cohobba," "petun," "y'ouly," "yoly," and "uppwoc." Are there any proofs of its
growing wild in America? At the discovery it was every where found in a state of cultivation.
The only mention I have met with is in Drake's Book of the Indians[3], where he says it grew
spontaneously at Wingandacoa[4], and was called by the natives "uppewoc." Does not this very
notice imply something unusual? and might not this have been a deserted plantation?

The Indians have always looked to Europeans for presents of tobacco, which they economise by
mixing with willow-bark, the uva-ursi, &c., and there are some tribes totally unacquainted
with its use. M'Kenzie says, the Chepewyans learnt smoking from Europeans, and that the Slave
and Dogrib Indians did not even know the use of tobacco.

In mentioning the silence of early visitors to the East on the subject of smoking, I might
have added equally the silence of the Norwegian visitors to America on the same subject.

A.C.M.

Exeter, July 25. 1850.

[Footnote 2: There is no positive notice of its introduction into Turkey, Persia, or Russia?]

[Footnote 3: Book iv., p. 5., ed. 8vo., Boston.]

[Footnote 4: Virginia.]

The tobacco-plant does not appear to be indigenous to any part of Asia. Sir John Chardin, who
was in Persia about the year 1670, relates in his travels, that tobacco had been cultivated
there from time immemorial. "Honest John Bell" (of Antermony), who travelled in China about
1720, asserts that it is reported the Chinese have had the use of tobacco for many ages. Rumphius,
who resided at Amboyna towards the end of the seventeenth century, found it universal over
the East Indies, even in countries where Spaniards or Portuguese had never been. The evidence
furnished by these authors, although merely traditional, is the strongest which I am aware
of in favour of an Asiatic origin for the use of tobacco.

Mr. Lane, on the other hand, speaks of the "introduction of tobacco into the East, in the beginning
of the seventeenth century of our era," (Arabian Nights, Note 22. cap. iii.), "a fact that
has been completely established by the researches of Dr. Meyer of Konigsberg, who discovered
in the works of an old Hindostanee physician a passage in which tobacco is distinctly stated
to have been introduced into India by the Frank nations in the year 1609." (Vide An Essay on
Tobacco, by H.W. Cleland, M.D. 4to. Glasgow, 1840, to which I am indebted for the information
embodied in this reply to Z.A.Z., and to which I would beg to refer him for much curious matter
on the subject of tobacco.)

My own impression is, that the common use of hemp in the East, for intoxicating purposes, from
a very early period, has been the cause of much of the misconception which prevails with regard
to the supposed ante-European employment of "tobacco, divine, rare, super-excellent tobacco,"
in the climes of the East.

J.M.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

"JOB'S LUCK," BY COLERIDGE.

These lines (see Vol. ii., p. 102.) are printed in the collected editions of the poems of Coleridge.
In an edition now before me, 3 vols. 12mo., Pickering, 1836, they occur at vol. ii. p. 147.
As printed in that place, there is one very pointed deviation from the copy derived by Mr.
Singer from the Crypt. The last line of the first stanza runs thus:

  "And the sly devil did not take his spouse."

In the Gentleman's Magazine for February, 1848, there is a poem by Coleridge, entitled "The
Volunteer Stripling," which I do not find in the collected edition above mentioned. It was
contributed to the Bath Herald, probably in 1803; and stands there with "S.T. Coleridge" appended
in full.

I remember to have read the following version of the epigram descriptive of the character of
the world some twenty or thirty years ago; but where, I have forgotten. It seems to me to be
a better text than either of those given by your correspondents:

  "Oh, what a glorious world we live in,
  To lend, to spend, or e'en to give in;
  But to borrow, to beg, or to come at one's own,
  'Tis the very worst world that ever was known."

J. Bruce.

       *       *       *       *       *

ECCIUS DEDOLATUS.

Mr. S.W. Singer, for an agreeable introduction to whom I am indebted to "Notes and Queries,"
having expressed a wish (Vol. ii., {157} p. 122.) "to see and peruse" the rare and amusing
satire, entitled Eccius dedolatus, authore Joanne-francisco Cottalembergio, Poeta Laureato,
I shall willingly forward to him a quarto volume which contains two copies of it, at any time
that an opportunity may present itself. In the meanwhile, he may not have any objection to
hear that these are copies of distinct impressions; neither of them intentionally recording
place or printer.

Four separate and curious woodcuts decorate the title-page of one exemplar, which was certainly
printed at Basil, apud Andream Cratandrum. The topmost woodcut, dated 1519, is here misplaced;
for it should be at the bottom of the page, in which position it appears when employed to grace
the title of the facetious Responsio of Simon Hess to Luther. The second copy is in Gothic
letter, and has typographical ornaments very similar to those used at Leipsic in the same year.
A peculiar colophon is added in the Basle edition; and after the words "Impressum in Utopia,"
a quondam possessor of the tract, probably its contemporary, has written with indignation,
"Stulte mentiris!" The duplicate, which I suppose to be of Leipsic origin, concludes with "Impressum
per Agrippun Panoplium, Regis Persarum Bibliopolam L. Simone Samaritano et D. Juda Schariottide
Consulibus, in urbe Lacernarum, apud confluentes Rhenum et Istrum."

Professor Ranke, referred to by Mr. Singer, was mistaken in assigning "March, 1520," as the
date of Eccius dedolatus. The terms "Acta decimo Kalendas Marcii" are, I believe, descriptive
of Tuesday, the 20th of February, in that year.

Perhaps Mr. Singer may be able to communicate some tidings respecting the Apostolic Prothonotary
Simon Hess, of whom I have casually spoken. Natalis Alexander (Hist. Eccles., viii. 105. Paris,
1699) attributes the humorous production which bears his name ("Lege et ridebis," declares
the original title-page) to Luther himself, amongst whose works it may be seen (tom. ii, fol.
126-185. Witeb. 1551); and it is a disappointment to read in Seckendorf, "Hessus Simon. Quis
hic fuerit, compertum mihi non est." (Scholia sive Supplem ad Ind. i. Histor., sig. 1. 3. Francof.
1692.)

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Hiring of Servants (Vol. ii., p. 89.).--It was provided by several old statutes, the first
of which was passed in 1349, that all able-bodied persons who had no evident means of subsistence
should put themselves as labourers to any that would hire them. In the following year were
passed several other acts relating to labourers, by one of which, 25 Edward III. stat. i. c.
i., entitled, "The Year and Day's Wages of Servants and Labourers in Husbandry," it was enacted
that ploughmen and all other labourers should be hired to serve for the full year, or other
usual terms, and not by the day; and further,

    "That such labourers do carry openly in their hands, in market
    towns, their instruments of labour, and be there hired in a
    public place, and not privately."

For carrying into effect these provisions, it would be necessary to have certain days, and
a fixed place set apart for the hiring of servants. In the former particular, no days would
be so convenient as feast days: they were well known, and were days commonly computed from;
they were, besides, holidays, and days for which labourers were forbidden to receive wages
(see 34 Edw. III. c. 10. and 4 Henry IV. c. 14.); so that, although absent from labour, they
would lose no part of the scanty pittances allowed them by act of parliament or settled by
justices. As to the latter requirement, no place was so public, or would so naturally suggest
itself, or be so appropriate, as the market-place.

Thus arose in our own land the custom respecting which W.J. makes inquiry, and also our statute
fairs, or statutes; thus called on account of their reference to the various "Statutes of Labourers."
I was not aware that any usage to hire on all festivals (for to such, I take it, your correspondent
refers) still existed in England. As to France, I am unable to speak; but it is not improbable
that a similar custom in that country may be due to causes nearly similar.

Arun.

George Herbert.--J.R. FOX (Vol. ii., p. 103.) will find in Major's excellent edition of Walton's
Lives the information he requires.

And amongst the notes appended by Major to these Lives, is the following additional notice
of Herbert's burial-place. The parish register of Bemerton states that

    "Mr. George Herbert, Esq., parson of Inggleston and Bemerton,
    was buried the 3rd day of March, 1632."

Altered from a dirge written by Shirley, attached {158} to his Contention of Ajax and Ulysses
for the Armour of Achilles, Lond. 1659, 8vo. See Percy's Reliques of English Poetry, vol. i.
p. 284.

J.M.G.

Worcester, July 22.

Lord Delamere (Vol. ii., p. 104.).--In Mr. Thomas Lyte's Ancient Ballads and Songs, 12mo. 1827,
is a ballad, taken down from tradition, entitled Lord Delamere. It begins as follows, and though
different from the opening lines given by Mr. Peacock, I am inclined to think that it is another
version of the same ballad:

  In the parliament house,
  A great rout has been there,
  Betwixt our good king
  And the Lord Delamere;
  Says Lord Delamere
  To his Majesty full soon,
  Will it please you, my liege,
  To grant me a boon?

After nine more stanzas, the editor remarks,

    "We have not, as yet, been able to trace out the historical
    incident upon which the ballad appears to have been founded, yet
    those curious in such matters may consult, if they list,
    Proceedings and Debates in the House of Commons for 1621 and
    1622, where they will find that some stormy debatings in these
    several years have been agitated in Parliament regarding the
    corn laws, which bear pretty close upon the leading features of
    the above."

Edward F. Rimbault.

Execution of Charles I. (Vol. ii., p. 72.).--P.S.W.E. is referred to An exact and most impartial
Accompt of the Indictment, Arraignment, Trial, and Judgment (according to law), of twenty-nine
Regicides, &c., 1660.

Therein he will find minutes of the trial and conviction of one "William Hulett, alias Howlett,"
on the charge of having struck "the fatal blow." How far the verdict was consistent with the
evidence (or, indeed, the whole proceedings of that court with the modern sense of justice),
abler judges than I have long since determined.

On behalf of the prisoner Hulett, witnesses ("not to be admitted upon oath against the king")
deposed that the common hangman, Richard Brandon, had frequently confessed (though he had also
denied) that he had beheaded the king. One of these depositions, that of William Cox, is so
remarkable that I am induced to transcribe it. If it be true, "Matfelonensis" is certainly
justified in saying, "We need hardly question that Richard Brandon was the executioner."

    "William Cox examined.

    "When my Lord Capell, Duke Hamilton, and the Earl of Holland,
    were beheaded in the Palace-yard, in Westminster, my Lord Capell
    asked the common hangman, said he, 'Did you cut off my master's
    head?' 'Yes,' saith he. 'Where is the instrument that did it?'
    He then brought the ax. 'Is this the same ax; are you sure?'
    said my Lord. 'Yes, my Lord,' saith the hangman, 'I am very sure
    it is the same.' My Lord Capell took the ax and kissed it, and
    gave him five pieces of gold. I heard him say, 'Sirrah, wert
    thou not afraid?' Saith the hangman, 'They made me cut it off,
    and I had thirty pound for my pains.'"

William Franks Mathews.

Charade (Vol. ii., p. 120.).--I think I can answer Mr. Gatty's Query as to the authorship of
the charade in question. A schoolfellow of mine at Charterhouse wrote the following:

  "What's that which all love more than life,
  Fear more than death or mortal strife;
  That which contented men desire,
  The poor possess, the rich require,
  The miser spends, the spendthrift saves,
  And all men carry to their graves?"

This was taken from the original copy, and it was certainly his own invention while at school,
and was written about five years ago. I have not seen him since, and do not like therefore
to give his name.

While on the subject of charades, can any of your correspondents inform me of either the authorship
or the answer of the following:

  "Sir Hilary charged at Agincourt--
  Sooth! 'twas a fearful day!
  The Rufflers of the camp and court
  Had little time to pray.
  'Tis said Sir Hilary utter'd there
  Two syllables, by way of prayer--
  The first to all the young and proud
  Who'll see to-morrow's sun;
  The next, with its cold and quiet cloud,
  To those who'll meet a dewy shroud
  Before to-day's is gone:
  And both together to all bright eyes,
  That weep when a warrior nobly dies."

I quote from recollection, so perhaps have omitted part, but believe it to be pretty correct.
I heard it at the same time as the one quoted in No. 31., and believe both to be hoaxes, as
no answer I have heard (including that given in No. 35.) can be considered satisfactory. The
former charade was attributed at the time to the late Archbishop of Canterbury, and it was
reported that a reward of 100l. was promised for the correct answer, and I know that a clergyman
sent him an answer with that belief. Among the answers suggested was "Tapir," taken in its
various significations, which I think was as near the mark as "Church," as given in No. 35.

I have never heard any answer suggested to Sir Hilary's dissyllabic prayer.

B.H.C.

Discursus Modestus (Vol. i., pp. 142. 205.).--Such of your readers as have been making inquiries
and suggestions respecting Discursus Modestus will {159} be glad to hear that a copy exists
in the British Museum. Its title is as follows:

    "A Sparing Discoverie of ovr English Iesuits, and of Fa.
    Parson's proceedings vnder pretence of promoting the Catholick
    Faith in England: for a caueat to all true Catholicks, ovr very
    louing brethren and friends, how they embrace such very
    uncatholike, though Iesuiticall deseignments. Eccles. 4. Vidi
    calumnias quæ sub sole geruntur, et lachrymas innocentium, et
    neminem consolatorem.--Newly imprinted, 1601."

At the end of the Preface are the initials W.W., making it clear that Watson, the author of
Important Considerations and the Quodlibets, was the writer, and accounting for the connection
which seemed to exist between the Discursus and the Quodlibets.

The two passages quoted by Bishop Andrewes (Resp. ad Apol. pp. 7. 117.) are to be found in
p. 13. But the question now arises, from what earlier book the quotations are taken, as they
both appear in the Sparing Discovery in Latin, and not in English? Did the Jesuits publish
a work containing such statements? or are we to accept them as their opinions only on the authority
of so bitter an opponent as Watson?

James Bliss.

"Rapido contrarius orbi" (Vol. ii., p. 120.) is in one of the finest passages in Ovid:

  "Nitor in adversum nec me qui cætera vincit
  Impetus, et rapido contrarius evehor orbi."

C.B.

"Isabel" and "Elizabeth."--At pages 439. and 488. of Vol. i., "Notes and Queries," are questions
and answers on the names of "Isabel" and "Elizabeth."

The following, from the Epigrammaton Joannis Dunbari, Lond. 1616, may amuse some of your readers:

  "AD. FREDERICUM PRINCIPEM PALATIN. RH.

  "Selectam Elector sibi quando elegit Elisam:
  Verè Electoris nomine dignus erat."

  "AD ELISHABETHAM EIUS SPONSAM.

  "El Deus est, ish vir, requiem Beth denique donat:
  Hine meritò Elisabeth nobile nomen habet.
  Scilicet illa Deo est motore, et Principe primo,
  Principis una sui lausque, quiesque viri."

Scotus.

Hanap (Vol. i., p. 477.).--"A cup raised on a stem, either with or without a cover." (Arch.
Journ. vol. ii. 1846, p. 263., where may be found an interesting account of old drinking vessels,
&c., many of them curiously named.)

Jarltzberg.

Cold Harbour (Vol. ii., p. 60.).--There is a place bearing that designation at Gosport, running
along side of Portsmouth harbour, between the town of Gosport and the Royal Clarence Victualling-yard.
I am at present aware of none other.

J.R. Fox.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The "Percy Society" has just issued The Anglo-Saxon Passion of St. George, from a manuscript
in the Cambridge University Library. It is a work highly creditable to the Society; and in
the interesting Introduction prefixed to it by the Editor, the Rev. C. Hardwick, M.A., Fellow
of St. Catharine's Hall, he has gratified our national prejudices by showing the favour which
the Saint from whom we take

    "Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George"

enjoyed in England before the Norman Conquest. Mr. Hardwick's brief notice of the Anglo-Saxon
allusions to Saint George is complete and most satisfactory. We need scarcely add that the
autographs are classed and catalogued with Messrs. P. and S.'s usual tact. Old Street, St.
Luke's) Catalogue of Books connected with Wesleyan Methodism.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

THE NEWE LIFE OF VIRGINEA, DECLARING THE FORMER SUCCESSE AND PRESENT STATE OF THAT PLANTATION;
being the Second Part of Nova Britannia. Published by the Authoritie of His Majestie's Councell
of Virginea. London; imprinted by Felix Kyngston, for William Welby, dwelling at the Signe
of the Swan in Paul's Churchyard. 1612.

Our valued Correspondent at Cambridge is assured that we could afford some a satisfactory explanation
of the several points referred to in his friendly remonstrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMBRIAN ARCHÆOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION.

THE FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING will be held at DOLGELLAU, August 26th to 31st, 1850.

President.--W.W.E. Wynne, Esq., F.S.A. John Williams, Llanymowddwy, Mallwyd, W. Basil Jones,
Gwynfryn, Machynileth, General Secretaries.

       *       *       *       *       *{160}

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE AND HISTORICAL REVIEW.

An Historical Magazine has long been the great desideratum of our literature. Amongst many
periodical publications, each appealing to some peculiar or exclusive class, no one has given
special attention to that branch of knowledge which engages the feelings of all classes.

