The few drafted militia which had been sometime stationed there, under command of Lieutenant
Hough, were placed in the best directions to give an alarm in case a landing should be attempted.
During the night the volunteers and militia had assembled in considerable numbers; and the
non-combatant inhabitants had generally removed to the neighboring farm-houses, in the momentary
expectation of seeing their abandoned dwellings in flames. It was a night of inexpressible
anguish to many a widow and orphan, to many aged and infirm, whose little pittance they were
now apparently to lose forever. But Providence directed otherwise. This compact little village
of 100 buildings had been for four hours covered with flames of fire and bomb shells, and not
a single building was consumed nor a person injured.

At the dawn of day on the 10th, the approach of the enemy was announced by a discharge of Congreve
rockets from several barges and a launch, which had taken their station, on the east side of
the town, and out of reach of the battery. Several volunteers, with small arms and the four
pounder, hastened across the point, supposing the enemy were attempting a landing. Colonel
Randall of the 13th regiment, who at the time was moving towards the battery with a detachment
of militia, ordered them to assist the volunteers in drawing over one of the 18 pounders to
the extreme end of the point; the fire of which in a few minutes compelled the barges to seek
safety in flight. During this time the brig was working up towards the Point, and soon after
sunrise came to anchor, short of half a mile from the battery, (or more correctly, the breastwork).
Our ammunition being soon exhausted, the guns were spiked, and the men who fought them, being
only about 15 or 20,[5] retired, leaving them behind for want of strength to drag them off.

The brig now continued deliberately to pour her 32 pound shot and grape into the Village, without
our having the power of returning a shot, for an hour, and the bomb ketch occasionally threw
in shells. A fresh supply of ammunition being obtained, the 18 pounder was withdrawn from the
breastwork, the vent drilled, and the piece taken back again, when such an animated and well
directed fire was kept up, that at 3 o'clock the brig slipped her cable and hauled off, with
her pumps going, having received several shots below her water line, and considerable damage
in her spars, &c. During this action between the eighteen pounder and the brig, Mr. Frederick
Denison was slightly wounded in the knee,[6] by a fragment of a rock, and Mr. John Miner, badly
burnt in his face by the premature discharge of the gun. The flag, which was nailed to the
mast, was pierced with seven shot holes,[7] the breast-work somewhat injured, and 6 or 8 of
the dwelling-houses in the vicinity essentially injured. At this time a considerable body of
militia had arrived, and Brigadier-General Isham[8] had taken the command; the inhabitants
had recovered from the consternation of the first moments; and were deliberately moving off
their furniture and goods. At 1 o'clock the Ramilies and Pactolus had taken stations about
two and a half miles from the town, when resistance appearing hopeless, the Magistrates as
a last resort applied to the General for permission to send a flag off, being impressed with
the opinion that there must exist some latent cause of a peculiar nature to induce a commander
who had heretofore distinguished himself for a scrupulous regard to the claims of honorable
warfare,--to induce him to commit an act so repugnant to sound policy, so abhorrent to his
nature, so flagrant an outrage on humanity. The General, we understand, would not sanction,
nor did he absolutely prohibit, a flag being sent. They, therefore, on their own responsibility,
sent on board the Ramilies, Isaac Williams and Wm. Lord, Esquires, with the following letter.

Copy.)                                  Stonington August 10, 1814. TO SIR THOMAS M. HARDY,

SIR--Agreeable to notice received from you yesterday, this town is now cleared of "unoffending
inhabitants," and they feeling anxious about the fate of their village, are desirous to know
from you, your determination respecting it. Yours, &c.

                                             Amos Denison, Burgess.
                                             William Lord, Magistrate.

The deputation proceeded on board the Ramilies, and shortly after an officer informed the boatmen
that they might return to the shore, as the gentlemen would be landed in a boat from the ship;
and that Captain Hardy had declared that no further hostilities would be committed against
the town. After remaining on board an hour, or more, the deputation were conveyed in a flag
from the ship, which was met by one from the shore. They brought with them a very singular
and extraordinary communication. An exact copy cannot at present be obtained, as official etiquette
will not permit; but having read it when it was received on shore, as far as memory serves
us, it was as follows:

On board H. M. Ship Ramilies, off Stonington, Aug. 10.

GENTLEMEN--You having given assurances that no torpedoes have been fitted out from Stonington;
and having engaged to exert your influence to prevent any from being fitted out or receiving
any aid from your town: If you send on board this ship tomorrow at eight o'clock, Mrs. Stewart,
wife of James Stewart esq. late His Majesty's Consul at New London, and their children, I engage
that no further hostilities shall be committed against Stonington; otherwise I shall proceed
to destroy it effectually.--For which purpose I possess ample means.

                                                     T. M. HARDY, Capt.

This letter was received indignantly. No answer was given. It was a fact well known that no
torpedoes have been fitted out at Stonington, and that the inhabitants are unfriendly to the
system; but neither individuals nor the town have power to prevent their resorting to that
place. The condition sine qua non, is truly tragi-farcical. Neither the town of Stonington
or the State of Connecticut, had any legal power to comply with it, which Capt. Hardy well
knew. And if Stonington Point with its rocky foundations had been in danger of being blown
up, scarcely a voice would have been raised to have saved it on such disgraceful terms. The
first duty of a citizen we are taught in Connecticut, is to obey the laws. Mrs. Stewart is
under the protection of the government of the United States, and the petition of her husband
for a permission for a departure is in the hands of a proper authority, who will undoubtedly
decide correctly in the case.[9]

Our countrymen at a distance, from the importance Capt. Hardy has attached to the circumstance
of Mrs. Stewart's being sent off to the British squadron, may possibly apprehend that she has
received insult, or signified some fears for the personal safety of herself and children.--So
far from this being the fact, no lady ever experienced greater civilities from the citizens;
as no one has better deserved them. And her feelings during the proceedings at Stonington,
demanded the sympathy of her friends.

By the terms offered by Capt. Hardy, it was impossible to discover whether he was most doubtful
of his ability to accomplish the destruction of the town, or desirous of a pretext to save
it. He assured the gentlemen who accompanied the flag that this was the most unpleasant expedition
he had undertaken.

The truce on the part of the enemy having expired at 8 o'clock on Thursday morning, a flag
was soon after observed at the battery to be coming on shore, and there not being sufficient
time to give information of the fact at head quarters and receive instructions, it was determined
by the officer then commanding to send a boat off to receive the communication. Mr. Faxon,
of Stonington, took charge of the boat, met the flag, and offered to convey the dispatch agreeable
to its directions. The British officer, Lieut. Claxton, questioned his authority to receive
it; enquired whether Mrs. Stewart would be sent off; and said he would go on shore. Mr. Faxon
replied, that he knew nothing of Mrs. Stewart; and that if he attempted to proceed for the
shore, he would undoubtedly be fired on. He continued his course, when a centinel was directed
to fire forward of the boat, but the ball passed through the after sail. They immediately put
about and steered for the ship; the lieutenant swearing revenge, for what he termed an insult
to his flag.

An explanation of the circumstance was immediately transmitted by General Isham to Capt. Hardy,
which he received as satisfactory.

At the moment, a flag had started for the Ramilies,[10] from the civil authority of the town,
which was received on board; by which was sent the following letter:--

                                    Stonington Boro', Aug. 14, 1814.
TO THOMAS M. HARDY, Commander of H.B.M. Ship Ramilies.

Sir--Since the flag went into New London for Mrs. Stewart, and family, General Cushing, who
commands at New London, has written, we are informed, to the Secretary of War on the subject,
and it is our opinion that the request will be complied with. But whatever may be the result
of the communication from Gen. Cushing, you will be satisfied it is not in our power to enter
into any arrangement with you respecting her.

From yours, &c.

Isaac Williams,               } William Lord,                 } Magistrates. Alexander G. Smith,
} Joseph Smith,  Warden. Geo. Hubbard,} Burgesses. Amos Denison,}

To this letter, Capt. Hardy replied verbally, that he should allow till 12 o'clock for Mrs.
Stewart to be brought on board.[11] At this time the principal part of three regiments of militia
had arrived, and the town was perfectly secure against a landing.

At 3 o'clock, the bomb ship commenced throwing shells into the town; and being out of reach
of our cannon, the General withdrew the militia, excepting a guard of 50 men who were ordered
to patrol the streets for the extinguishment of fire, should any happen. The bombardment continued
till evening.

On Friday morning the bomb ship renewed her operations a little before sunrise, while the Ramilies
and Pactolus were warping in. At eight o'clock the frigate opened her fire and was soon followed
by the Ramilies. At this time the cannon were ordered to be moved to the north end of the town,
where they would have been serviceable if an attempt had been made to land under cover of the
ships. This was a very hazardous service, as the party would be entirely exposed to the fire
of the enemy. Volunteers in sufficient numbers instantly offered their services; among whom
were upwards of twenty of the Norwich artillery. The command of the party was entrusted to
Lieutenant Lathrop,[12] of that corps. They marched to the battery and brought off the pieces
without the smallest accident; exhibiting all the steadiness which characterises veteran soldiers.

This tremendous cannonade and bombardment continued till nearly noon, when it ceased; and about
four o'clock the ships hauled off to their former anchorage.

During the succeeding night a large force was kept on guard, in the expectation and hope that
a landing would be attempted. The militia during this afflicting scene discovered the very
best disposition, and were eager to take revenge of the enemy or sacrifice their lives in the
contest.

It may be considered miraculous that during the several attacks, while so many were exposed
to this terrible and protracted bombardment and cannonade, not a person was killed, and but
five or six wounded, and those but slightly. Among the wounded is Lieutenant Hough[13] of the
drafted militia.

On Saturday morning the enemy relinquished the hope of burning the town, weighed anchor, and
proceeded up Fisher's Island sound.

The volunteers who so gloriously fought in the battery, deserve the thanks of their country.
No men could have done better. Their example will have the happiest influence.

About forty buildings are more or less injured, 8 or 10 essentially so; and two or three may
be considered as ruined. The damage was principally done by the brig. Many shells did not explode,
several were extinguished. The Congreve Rockets which were frightful at first, lost their terrors,
and effected little.

The inhabitants, fearing another attack, have not returned to their dwellings, and their desolate
situation calls loudly upon the philanthropy of their fellow citizens. If a brief should be
granted for collections in the churches of the State we trust very essential aid will be furnished.
Nineteen-twentieths of the inhabitants, it is said, have no other property than their dwellings.

A Nantucket man has been on board the British fleet to redeem his boat, and learned that the
Dispatch had 2 men killed and 12 wounded; her loss was undoubtedly much greater.

       *     *     *     *     *

NAMES OF VOLUNTEERS.

[From the Conn. Gazette, Aug. 24th.]

The following is handed us as a list of the volunteers (tho' presumed not entirely perfect,)
of those who so bravely stood the brunt of the attack of Stonington Point:--

Of Stonington:--

Capt. George Fellows,       Gurdon Trumbull,
Capt. Wm. Potter,           Alex. G. Smith,
Dr. Wm. Lord,               Amos Denison jun.,
Lieut. H. G. Lewis,         Stanton Gallup,
Ensign D. Frink,            Eb. Morgan,
                 John Miner.

Of Mystic:--

Jesse Deane,                Jeremiah Holmes, Deane Gallup,               N. Cleft, Fred. Haley,
Jedediah Reed.

Of Groton:--

Alfred White,               Frank Daniels, Ebenezer Morgan,            Giles Moran.

Of New London:--

Major Simeon Smith, Capt. Noah Lester (formerly of the Army), Major N. Frink,             Lambert
Williams.

From Massachusetts:--

Capt. Leonard, and Mr. Dunham.

[From the Conn. Gazette, Aug. 31st.]

By an error of the compositor, the following names were omitted in the list published in our
last paper, of volunteers who so greatly contributed to the glorious defence and preservation
of Stonington, viz.:--

Simeon Haley,               Thomas Wilcox, Jeremiah Haley,             Luke Palmer, Frederick
Denison,          George Palmer, John Miner,                 Wm. G. Bush, Asa Lee.

There were probably others, whom we have not learnt.

[From the original in the Comptroller's office, at Hartford.]

MUSTER ROLL of the 8th Company of Infantry under the command of CAPTAIN WM. POTTER in the Thirtieth
Regiment of Con. Militia in service of the United States, at Stonington, commanded by Lieut.
Col. WM. RANDALL, from the 9th of August when last mustered, to the 27th of August 1814.--

Names and Rank.        Commencement    Expiration   Alterations and Remarks
                         of service.    of service.  Remarks since last
                                                     muster.

Captain, William Potter,      Aug. 9   Aug. 27
Lieut. Horatio G. Lewis,       "   9    "   27
                                                    {detached for service
Ensign, Daniel Frink,          "   9    "   23    { and ordered to N.
                                                    { London, Aug. 22.
  Sergeants:
Francis Amy,                     "  19    "   27
Charles H. Smith,                "   9    "   27
Peleg Hancox,                    "  22    "   27
Gurdon Trumbull,                 "   9    "   27
  Corporals:
Azariah Stanton jr.,             "  16    "   27
Junia Cheesebrough,              "   9    "   27
Joshua Swan jr.,                 "  22    "   27
  Privates:
                                                    {detached for service
Phineas Wilcox,                  "   9    "   23    { and ordered to N.
                                                    { London, Aug. 23.
Hamilton White,                  "   9    "   27
                                                    {detached for service
Henry Wilcox,                    "   9    "   23    { and ordered to N.
                                                    { London, Aug. 23.
Nathan Wilcox,                   "   9    "   27
Samuel Burtch,                   "   9    "   27
Jonathan Palmer,                 "   9    "   27
Andrew P. Stanton,               "   9    "   27
James Stanton,                  Aug. 9   Aug. 27
Thomas Breed,                    "   9    "         {Volunteer exempt,
                                                    {discharg., Aug. 17.
Amos Loper,                      "   9    "         {Volunteer exempt,
                                                    {discharg., Aug. 20.
Samuel Bottum, Jr.,              "   9    "   27
                                                    {Produced certificate
Benj. Merritt,                   "   9    "         {of parole on 15th
                                                    {Aug. & discharged.
Elisha Cheesebrough Jr.,         "   9    "   27
                                                    {detached for service
Christopr. Wheeler,              "   9    "   23    { & ordered to New
                                                    { London, Aug. 23.
Amos Hancox,                     "   9   "   27
Zebadiah Palmer,                 "  15   "   27
Nathl. Waldron,                  "  15   "   27
Thomas Spencer,                  "  19   "   27
Nathl. M. Pendleton,             "  20   "   27
Simon Carew,                     "  22   "   27
Elisha Faxon Jun.,               "  22   "   27
                                                    {detached for service
Ebenezer Halpin,                 "  22   "   23     { & ordered to New
                                                    { London, Aug. 23.
                                                    {detached for service
Asa Wilcox Jun.,                 "  22   "   23     { & ordered to New
                                                    { London, 23 Aug.
Warren Palmer,                   "  22   "   27
                                                    {Waiter to Capt.
Joseph Bailey Jun. }             "   9   "   27     {Wm. Potter.
                   }Waiters,   "       "   23     {Waiter to Lieut.
Nathl. Lewis,      }                                {G. Lewis

I certify, upon honor, that this Muster Roll exhibits a true statement of the 8th Company;
and that the remarks set opposite the men's names are accurate and just.

                                            WILLIAM POTTER, Capt.

We certify upon honor, that the foregoing Muster Roll exhibits a true statement of Captain
William Potter's Company; and that the remarks set opposite the men's names are accurate and just.

                       JOHN JAMIESON JR., Asst. Adjt. Genl. &
                                           Mustering Officer, per order.

                       WM LORD, Regimental Surgeon.

ACCOUNT OF THE ATTACK, FURNISHED FOR PUBLICATION, BY THE MAGISTRATES, WARDEN AND BURGESSES.[14]

[From the Conn. Gazette, Sept. 7th,]

                                Stonington Borough, Aug. 29, 1814.

Mr. Green--In relation to the extraordinary attack of the enemy, of the 9th inst., on this
village, the public have been furnished with various accounts; and though the circumstantial
and generally correct account given in your paper [of the 7th of August,] precludes the necessity
of a recapitulation of the whole transaction, yet this village having been the object of the
attack and resentment of Sir Thomas, the Magistrates, Warden and Burgesses residing therein,
feeling deeply interested that some official document comprehending a supply of some facts
not given, and alteration of others, and a general statement relative to the whole, should
be published,--offer the public the following statement:

On Tuesday afternoon of the 9th inst. anchored off our harbor, the frigate Pactolus, the Terror,
a bomb ship, and the brig Dispatch of 20 guns. From the difficulty of the navigation in Fisher's
Island Sound, we have been generally impressed that such ships of war dare not approach us;
but the presumption of the enemy has created new fears, and we think it our duty to say, that
further means of defence and protection ought to be afforded us; this we have often requested.
Various were the opinions respecting the object of the enemy, but soon all was settled. A flag
was discovered to leave the frigate and row towards the town.

                                      T. M. HARDY, Capt. of H. B. M.
                                               Ship RAMILIES.

To the Inhabitants of the Town of Stonington.

