The girl followed him into the hall. "Great work, boy, and take it from me, you'll go over.
Say, honest now, I'm glad clear down into my boots." She had both his hands again, and he could
see that her eyes were moist. She seemed to be an impressionable little thing, hysterical one
minute while looking at a bunch of good stills, and sort of weepy the next. But he was beginning
to like her, in spite of her funny talk and free ways.

"And say," she called after him when he had reached the top of the stairs, "you know you haven't
had much experience yet with a bunch of hard-boiled troupers; many a one will be jealous of
you the minute you begin to climb, and maybe they'll get fresh and try to kid you, see? But
don't you mind it--give it right back to them. Or tell me if they get too raw. Just remember
I got a mean right when I swing free."

"All right, thank you," he replied, but his bewilderment was plain.

She stared a moment, danced up to him, and seized a hand in both of hers. "What I mean son,
if you feel bothered any time--by anything--just come to me with it, see? I'm in this piece,
and I'll look out for you. Don't forget that." She dropped his hand, and was back in the office
while he mumbled his thanks for what he knew she had meant as a kindness.

So she was to be in the Baird piece; she, too, would be trying to give the public something
better and finer. Still, he was puzzled at her believing he might need to be looked out for.
An actor drawing forty dollars a week could surely look out for himself. He emerged into the
open of the Holden lot as one who had at last achieved success after long and gruelling privation.
He walked briefly among the scenes of this privation, pausing in reminiscent mood before the
Crystal Palace Hotel and other outstanding spots where he had so stoically suffered the torments
of hunger and discouragement.

He remembered to be glad now that no letter of appeal had actually gone to Gashwiler. Suppose
he had built up in the old gentleman's mind a false hope that he might again employ Merton
Gill? A good thing he had held out! Yesterday he was starving and penniless; to-day he was
fed and on someone's payroll for probably as much money a week as Gashwiler netted from his
entire business. From sheer force of association, as he thus meditated, he found himself hungry,
and a few moments later he was selecting from the food counter of the cafeteria whatever chanced
to appeal to the eye--no weighing of prices now.

Before he had finished his meal Henshaw and his so-called Governor brought their trays to the
adjoining table. Merton studied with new interest the director who would some day be telling
people that he had been the first to observe the aptitude of this new star--had, in fact, given
him a lot of footage and close-ups and medium shots and "dramatics" in The Blight of Broadway
when he was a mere extra--before he had made himself known to the public in Jeff Baird's first
worth-while piece.

He was strongly moved, now, to bring himself to Henshaw's notice when he heard the latter say,
"It's a regular Harold Parmalee part, good light comedy, plenty of heart interest, and that
corking fight on the cliff."

He wanted to tell Henshaw that he himself was already engaged to do a Harold Parmalee part,
and had been told, not two hours ago, that he would by most people be taken for Parmalee's
twin brother. He restrained this impulse, however, as Henshaw went on to talk of the piece in hand.

It proved to be Robinson Crusoe, which he had already discussed. Or, rather, not Robinson Crusoe
any longer. Not even Robinson Crusoe, Junior. It was to have been called Island Passion, he
learned, but this title had been amended to Island Love.

"They're getting fed up on that word 'passion,'" Henshaw was saying, "and anyhow, 'love' seems
to go better with 'island,' don't you think, Governor? 'Desert Passion' was all right--there's
something strong and intense about a desert. But 'island' is different."

And it appeared that Island Love, though having begun as Robinson Crusoe, would contain few
of the outstanding features of that tale. Instead of Crusoe's wrecked sailing-ship, there was
a wrecked steam yacht, a very expensive yacht stocked with all modern luxuries, nor would there
be a native Friday and his supposed sister with the tattooed shoulder, but a wealthy young
New Yorker and his valet who would be good for comedy on a desert island, and a beautiful girl,
and a scoundrel who would in the last reel be thrown over the cliffs.

Henshaw was vivacious about the effects he would get. "I've been wondering, Governor," he continued,
"if we're going to kill off the heavy, whether we shouldn't plant it early that besides wanting
this girl who's on the island, he's the same scoundrel that wronged the young sister of the
lead that owns the yacht. See what I mean?-it would give more conflict."

"But here--" The Governor frowned and spoke after a moment's pause. "Your young New Yorker
is rich, isn't he? Fine old family, and all that, how could he have a sister that would get
wronged? You couldn't do it. If he's got a wronged sister, he'd have to be a workingman or
a sailor or something. And she couldn't be a New York society girl; she'd have to be working
some place, in a store or office--don't you see? How could you have a swell young New Yorker
with a wronged sister? Real society girls never get wronged unless their father loses his money,
and then it's never anything serious enough to kill a heavy for. No--that's out." "Wait, I
have it." Henshaw beamed with a new inspiration. "You just said a sailor could have his sister
wronged, so why not have one on the yacht, a good strong type, you know, and his little sister
was wronged by the heavy, and he'd never known who it was, because the little girl wouldn't
tell him, even on her death-bed, but he found the chap's photograph in her trunk, and on the
yacht he sees that it was this same heavy--and there you are. Revenge--see what I mean? He
fights with the heavy on the cliff, after showing him the little sister's picture, and pushes
him over to death on the rocks below--get it? And the lead doesn't have to kill him. How about
that?" Henshaw regarded his companion with pleasant anticipation.

The Governor again debated before he spoke. He still doubted. "Say, whose show is this, the
lead's or the sailor's that had the wronged sister? You'd have to show the sailor and his sister,
and show her being wronged by the heavy--that'd take a big cabaret set, at least--and you'd
have to let the sailor begin his stuff on the yacht, and then by the time he'd kept it up a
bit after the wreck had pulled off the fight, where would your lead be? Can you see Parmalee
playing second to this sailor? Why, the sailor'd run away with the piece. And that cabaret
set would cost money when we don't need it--just keep those things in mind a little."

"Well," Henshaw submitted gracefully, "anyway, I think my suggestion of Island Love is better
than Island Passion--kind of sounds more attractive, don't you think?"

The Governor lighted a cigarette. "Say, Howard, it's a wonderful business, isn't it? We start
with poor old Robinson Crusoe and his goats and parrot and man Friday, and after dropping Friday's
sister who would really be the Countess of Kleig, we wind up with a steam-yacht and a comic
butler and call it Island Love. Who said the art of the motion picture is in its infancy? In
this case it'll be plumb senile. Well, go ahead with the boys and dope out your hogwash. Gosh!
Sometimes I think I wouldn't stay in the business if it wasn't for the money. And remember,
don't you let a single solitary sailor on that yacht have a wronged sister that can blame it
on the heavy, or you'll never have Parmalee playing the lead."

Again Merton Gill debated bringing himself to the notice of these gentlemen. If Parmalee wouldn't
play the part for any reason like a sailor's wronged sister, he would. It would help him to
be known in Parmalee parts. Still, he couldn't tell how soon they might need him, nor how soon
Baird would release him. He regretfully saw the two men leave, however. He might have missed
a chance even better than Baird would give him.

He suddenly remembered that he had still a professional duty to perform. He must that afternoon,
and also that evening, watch a Harold Parmalee picture. He left the cafeteria, swaggered by
the watchman at the gate-he had now the professional standing to silence that fellow-and made
his way to the theatre Baird had mentioned.

In front he studied the billing of the Parmalee picture. It was "Object, Matrimony-a Smashing
Comedy of Love and Laughter." Harold Parmalee, with a gesture of mock dismay, seemed to repulse
a bevy of beautiful maidens who wooed him. Merton took his seat with a dismay that was not
mock, for it now occurred to him that he had no experience in love scenes, and that an actor
playing Parmalee parts would need a great deal of such experience. In Simsbury there had been
no opportunity for an intending actor to learn certain little niceties expected at sentimental
moments. Even his private life had been almost barren of adventures that might now profit him.

He had sometimes played kissing games at parties, and there had been the more serious affair
with Edwina May Pulver-nights when he had escorted her from church or sociables to the Pulver
gate and lingered in a sort of nervously worded ecstasy until he could summon courage to kiss
the girl. Twice this had actually happened, but the affair had come to nothing, because the
Pulvers had moved away from Simsbury and he had practically forgotten Edwina May; forgotten
even the scared haste of those embraces. He seemed to remember that he had grabbed her and
kissed her, but was it on her cheek or nose?

Anyway, he was now quite certain that the mechanics of this dead amour were not those approved
of in the best screen circles. Never had he gathered a beauteous girl in his arms and very
slowly, very accurately, very tenderly, done what Parmalee and other screen actors did in their
final fade-outs. Even when Beulah Baxter had been his screen ideal he had never seen himself
as doing more than save her from some dreadful fate. Of course, later, if he had found out
that she was unwed--

He resolved now to devote special study to Parmalee's methods of wooing the fair creature who
would be found in his arms at the close of the present film. Probably Baird would want some
of that stuff from him.

From the very beginning of "Object, Matrimony" it was apparent that the picture drama would
afford him excellent opportunities for studying the Parmalee technique in what an early subtitle
called "The Eternal Battle of the Sexes." For Parmalee in the play was Hubert Throckmorton,
popular screen idol and surfeited with the attentions of adoring women. Cunningly the dramatist
made use of Parmalee's own personality, of his screen triumphs, and of the adulation lavished
upon him by discriminating fair ones. His breakfast tray was shown piled with missives amply
attesting the truth of what the interviewer had said of his charm. All women seemed to adore
Hubert Throckmorton in the drama, even as all women adored Harold Parmalee in private life.

The screen revealed Throckmorton quite savagely ripping open the letters, glancing at their
contents and flinging them from him with humorous shudders. He seemed to be asking why these
foolish creatures couldn't let an artist alone. Yet he was kindly, in this half-humorous, half-savage
mood. There was a blending of chagrin and amused tolerance on his face as the screen had him
murmur, casting the letter aside, "Poor, Silly Little Girls!"

From this early scene Merton learned Parmalee's method of withdrawing the gold cigarette case,
of fastidiously selecting a cigarette, of closing the case and of absently--thinking of other
matters--tamping the gold-tipped thing against the cover. This was an item that he had overlooked.
He should have done that in the cabaret scene. He also mastered the Parmalee trick of withdrawing
the handkerchief from the cuff of the perfectly fitting morning coat. That was something else
he should have done in The Blight of Broadway. Little things like that, done right, gave the
actor his distinction.

The drama progressed. Millionaire Jasper Gordon, "A Power in Wall Street," was seen telephoning
to Throckmorton. He was entreating the young actor to spend the week-end at his palatial Long
Island country home to meet a few of his friends. The grim old Wall Street magnate was perturbed
by Throckmorton's refusal, and renewed his appeal. He was one of those who always had his way
in Wall Street, and he at length prevailed upon Throckmorton to accept his invitation. He than
manifested the wildest delight, and he was excitedly kissed by his beautiful daughter who had
been standing by his side in the sumptuous library while he telephoned. It could be seen that
the daughter, even more than her grim old father, wished Mr. Throckmorton to be at the Long
Island country home.

Later Throckmorton was seen driving his high-powered roadster, accompanied only by his valet,
to the Gordon country home on Long Island, a splendid mansion surrounded by its landscaped
grounds where fountains played and roses bloomed against the feathery background of graceful
eucalyptus trees. Merton Gill here saw that he must learn to drive a high-powered roadster.
Probably Baird would want some of that stuff, too.

A round of country-house gaieties ensued, permitting Throckmorton to appear in a series of
perfectly fitting sports costumes. He was seen on his favourite hunter, on the tennis courts,
on the first tee of the golf course, on a polo pony, and in the mazes of the dance. Very early
it was learned that the Gordon daughter had tired of mere social triumphs and wished to take
up screen acting in a serious way. She audaciously requested Throckmorton to give her a chance
as leading lady in his next great picture.

He softened his refusal by explaining to her that acting was a difficult profession and that
suffering and sacrifice were necessary to round out the artist. The beautiful girl replied
that within ten days he would be compelled to admit her rare ability as an actress, and laughingly
they wagered a kiss upon it. Merton felt that this was the sort of thing he must know more about.

Throckmorton was courteously gallant in the scene. Even when he said, "Shall we put up the
stakes now, Miss Gordon?" it could be seen that he was jesting. He carried this light manner
through minor scenes with the beautiful young girl friends of Miss Gordon who wooed him, lay
in wait for him, ogled and sighed. Always he was the laughingly tolerant conqueror who had
but a lazy scorn for his triumphs.

He did not strike the graver note until it became suspected that there were crooks in the house
bent upon stealing the famous Gordon jewels. That it was Throckmorton who averted this catastrophe
by sheer nerve and by use of his rare histrionic powers--as when he disguised himself in the
coat and hat of the arch crook whom he had felled with a single blow and left bound and gagged,
in order to receive the casket of jewels from the thief who opened the safe in the library,
and that he laughed away the thanks of the grateful millionaire, astonished no one in the audience,
though it caused Merton Gill to wonder if he could fell a crook with one blow. He must practice
up some blows.

Throckmorton left the palatial country home wearied by the continuous adulation. The last to
speed him was the Gordon daughter, who reminded him of their wager; within ten days he would
acknowledge her to be an actress fit to play as his leading woman.

Throckmorton drove rapidly to a simple farm where he was not known and would be no longer surfeited
with attentions. He dressed plainly in shirts that opened wide at the neck and assisted in
the farm labours, such as pitching hay and leading horses into the barn. It was the simple
existence that he had been craving--away from it all! No one suspected him to be Hubert Throckmorton,
least of all the simple country maiden, daughter of the farmer, in her neat print dress and
heavy braid of golden hair that hung from beneath her sunbonnet. She knew him to be only a
man among men, a simple farm labourer, and Hubert Throckmorton, wearied by the adulation of
his feminine public, was instantly charmed by her coy acceptance of his attentions.

That this charm should ripen to love was to be expected. Here was a child, simple, innocent,
of a wild-rose beauty in her print dress and sunbonnet, who would love him for himself alone.
Beside a blossoming orange tree on the simple Long Island farm he declared his love, warning
the child that he had nothing to offer her but two strong arms and a heart full of devotion.

The little girl shyly betrayed that she returned his love but told him that he must first obtain
the permission of her grandmother without which she would never consent to wed him. She hastened
into the old farmhouse to prepare Grandmother for the interview.

Throckmorton presently faced the old lady who sat huddled in an armchair, her hands crooked
over a cane, a ruffled cap above her silvery hair. He manfully voiced his request for the child's
hand in marriage. The old lady seemed to mumble an assent. The happy lover looked about for
his fiance when, to his stupefaction, the old lady arose briskly from her chair, threw off
cap, silvery wig, gown of black, and stood revealed as the child herself, smiling roguishly
up at him from beneath the sunbonnet. With a glad cry he would have seized her, when she stayed
him with lifted hand. Once more she astounded him. Swiftly she threw off sunbonnet, blonde
wig, print dress, and stood before him revealed as none other than the Gordon daughter.

Hubert Throckmorton had lost his wager. Slowly, as the light of recognition dawned in his widening
eyes, he gathered the beautiful girl into his arms. "Now may I be your leading lady?" she asked.

"My leading lady, not only in my next picture, but for life," he replied.

There was a pretty little scene in which the wager was paid. Merton studied it. Twice again,
that evening, he studied it. He was doubtful. It would seem queer to take a girl around the
waist that way and kiss her so slowly. Maybe he could learn. And he knew he could already do
that widening of the eyes. He could probably do it as well as Parmalee did.

* * * * * * *

Back in the Buckeye office, when the Montague girl had returned from her parting with Merton,
Baird had said:

"Kid, you've brightened my whole day."

"Didn't I tell you?"

"He's a lot better than you said."

"But can you use him?"

"You can't tell. You can't tell till you try him out. He might be good, and he might blow up
right at the start."

"I bet he'll be good. I tell you. Jeff, that boy is just full of acting. All you got to do--keep
his stuff straight, serious. He can't help but be funny that way."

"We'll see. To-morrow we'll kind of feel him out. He'll see this Parmalee film to-day--I caught
it last night--and there's some stuff in it I want to play horse with, see? So I'll start him
to-morrow in a quiet scene, and find out does he handle. If he does, we'll go right into some
hokum drama stuff. The more serious he plays it the better. It ought to be good, but you can't
ever tell in our trade. You know that as well as I do."

The girl was confident. "I can tell about this lad," she insisted.

CHAPTER XIII. GENIUS COMES INTO ITS OWN

Merton Gill, enacting the part of a popular screen idol, as in the play of yesterday, sat at
breakfast in his apartments on Stage Number Five. Outwardly he was cool, wary, unperturbed,
as he peeled the shell from a hard-boiled egg and sprinkled salt upon it. For the breakfast
consisted of hard-boiled eggs and potato salad brought on in a wooden dish.

He had been slightly disturbed by the items of this meal; it was not so elegant a breakfast
as Hubert Throckmorton's, but he had been told by Baird that they must be a little different.

He had been slightly disturbed, too, at discovering the faithful valet who brought on the simple
repast was the cross--eyed man. Still, the fellow had behaved respectfully, as a valet should.
He had been quietly obsequious of manner, revealing only a profound admiration for his master
and a constant solicitude for his comfort. Probably he, like Baird, was trying to do something
distinctive and worth while.

Having finished the last egg--glad they had given him no more than three--the popular screen
idol at the prompting of Baird, back by the cameras, arose, withdrew a metal cigarette case,
purchased that very morning with this scene in view, and selected a cigarette. He stood negligently,
as Parmalee had stood, tapped the end of the cigarette on the side of the case, as Parmalee
had done, lighted a match on the sole of his boot, and idly smoked in the Parmalee manner.

Three times the day before he had studied Parmalee in this bit of business. Now he idly crossed
to the centre-table upon which reposed a large photograph album. He turned the pages of this,
pausing to admire the pictures there revealed. Baird had not only given him general instructions
for this scene, but now prompted him in low, encouraging tones.

"Turn over slowly; you like 'em all. Now lift the album up and hold it for a better light on
that one. It's one of the best, it pleases you a lot. Look even more pleased--smile! That's
good. Put down the album; turn again, slowly; turn twice more, that's it; pick it up again.
This one is fine--"

Baird took him through the album in this manner, had him close it when all the leaves were
turned, and stand a moment with one hand resting on it. The album had been empty. It had been
deemed best not to inform the actor that later close-ups of the pages would show him to have
been refreshed by studying photographs of himself--copies, in fact, of the stills of Clifford
Armytage at that moment resting on Baird's desk.

As he stood now, a hand affectionately upon the album, a trace of the fatuously admiring smile
still lingering on his expressive face, a knock sounded upon the door. "Come in," he called.

The valet entered with the morning mail. This consisted entirely of letters. There were hundreds
of them, and the valet had heaped them in a large clothes-basket which he now held respectfully
in front of him.

The actor motioned him, with an authentic Parmalee gesture, to place them by the table. The
valet obeyed, though spilling many letters from the top of the overflowing basket. These, while
his master seated himself, he briskly swept up with a broom.

The chagrined amusement of Harold Parmalee, the half-savage, half-humorous tolerance for this
perhaps excusable weakness of woman, was here accurately manifested. The actor yawned slightly,
lighted another cigarette with flawless Parmalee technique, withdrew a handkerchief from his
sleeve-cuff, lightly touched his forehead with it, and began to open the letters. He glanced
at each one in a quick, bored manner, and cast it aside.

When a dozen or so had been thus treated he was aroused by another knock at the door. It opened
to reveal the valet with another basket overflowing with letters. Upon this the actor arose,
spread his arms wide in a gesture of humorous helplessness. He held this briefly, then drooped
in humorous despair.

He lighted another cigarette, eyed the letters with that whimsical lift of the brows so characteristic
of Parmalee, and lazily blew smoke toward them. Then, regarding the smoke, he idly waved a
hand through it. "Poor, silly little girls!" But there was a charming tolerance in his manner.
One felt his generous recognition that they were not wholly without provocation.

This appeared to close the simple episode. The scenes, to be sure, had not been shot without
delays and rehearsals, and a good two hours of the morning had elapsed before the actor was
released from the glare of light and the need to remember that he was Harold Parmalee. His
peeling of an egg, for example, had not at first been dainty enough to please the director,
and the scene with the album had required many rehearsals to secure the needed variety of expressions,
but Baird had been helpful in his promptings, and always kind.

"Now, this one you've turned over--it's someone you love better than anybody. It might be your
dear old mother that you haven't seen for years. It makes you kind of solemn as you show how
fond you were of her. You're affected deeply by her face. That's it, fine! Now the next one,
you like it just as much, but it pleases you more. It's someone else you're fond of, but you're
not so solemn.

"Now turn over another, but very slow--slow--but don't let go of it. Stop a minute and turn
back as if you had to have another peek at the last one, see what I mean? Take plenty of time.
This is a great treat for you. It makes you feel kind of religious. Now you're getting it--that's
the boy! All right--"

The scene where he showed humorous dismay at the quantity of his mail had needed but one rehearsal.
He had here been Harold Parmalee without effort. Also he had not been asked to do again the
Parmalee trick of lighting a cigarette nor of withdrawing the handkerchief from its cuff to
twice touch his forehead in moments of amused perplexity. Baird had merely uttered a low "Fine!"
at beholding these bits.

He drew a long breath of relief when released from the set. Seemingly he had met the test.
Baird had said that morning, "Now we'll just run a little kind of test to find out a few things
about you," and had followed with a general description of the scenes. It was to be of no great
importance--a minor detail of the picture. Perhaps this had been why the wealthy actor breakfasted
in rather a plainly furnished room on hard-boiled eggs and potato salad. Perhaps this had been
why the costume given him had been not too well fitting, not too nice in detail. Perhaps this
was why they had allowed the cross-eyed man to appear as his valet. He was quite sure this
man would not do as a valet in a high-class picture. Anyway, however unimportant the scene,
he felt that he had acquitted himself with credit.

The Montague girl, who had made him up that morning, with close attention to his eyebrows,
watched him from back of the cameras, and she seized both his hands when he left the set. "You're
going to land," she warmly assured him. "I can tell a trouper when I see one."

She was in costume. She was apparently doing the part of a society girl, though slightly overdressed,
he thought.

"We're working on another set for this same picture," she explained, "but I simply had to catch
you acting. You'll probably be over with us to-morrow. But you're through for the day, so beat
it and have a good time."

"Couldn't I come over and watch you?"

"No, Baird doesn't like to have his actors watching things they ain't in; he told me specially
that you weren't to be around except when you're working. You see, he's using you in kind of
a special part in this multiple-reeler, and he's afraid you might get confused if you watched
the other parts. I guess he'll start you to-morrow. You're to be in a good, wholesome heart
play. You'll have a great chance in it."

"Well, I'll go see if I can find another Parmalee picture for this afternoon. Say, you don't
think I was too much like him in that scene, do you? You know it's one thing if I look like
him--I can't help that--but I shouldn't try to imitate him too closely, should I? I got to
think about my own individuality, haven't I?"

"Sure, sure you have! But you were fine--your imitation wasn't a bit too close. You can think
about your own individuality this afternoon when you're watching him."

 Late that day in the projection room Baird and the Montague girl
watched the "rush" of that morning's episode.

"The squirrel's done it," whispered the girl after the opening scene. It seemed to her that
Merton Gill on the screen might overhear her comment.

Even Baird was low-toned. "Looks so," he agreed.

"If that ain't Parmalee then I'll eat all the hard-boiled eggs on the lot."

Baird rubbed his hands. "It's Parmalee plus," he corrected.

"Oh, Mother, Mother!" murmured the girl while the screen revealed the actor studying his photographs.

"He handled all right in that spot," observed Baird.

"He'll handle right--don't worry. Ain't I told you he's a natural born trouper?"

The mail was abandoned in humorous despair. The cigarette lighted in a flawless Parmalee manner,
the smoke idly brushed aside. "Poor, silly little girls," the actor was seen to say. The girl
gripped Baird's arm until he winced. "There, old Pippin! There's your million, picked right
up on the lot!"

"Maybe," assented the cooler Baird, as they left the projection room.

"And say," asked the girl, "did you notice all morning how he didn't even bat an eye when you
spoke to him, if the camera was still turning? Not like a beginner that'll nearly always look
up and get out of the picture."

"What I bet," observed Baird, "I bet he'd 'a' done that album stuff even better than he did
if I'd actually put his own pictures in, the way I'm going to for the close-ups. I was afraid
he'd see it was kidding if I did, or if I told him what pictures they were going to be. But
I'm darned now if I don't think he'd have stood for it. I don't believe you'll ever be able
to peeve that boy by telling him he's good."

The girl glanced up defensively as they walked.

"Now don't get the idea he's conceited, because he ain't. Not one bit."

"How do you know he ain't?"

She considered this, then explained brightly, "Because I wouldn't like him if he was. No, no--now
you listen here" as Baird had grinned. "This lad believes in himself, that's all. That's different
from conceit. You can believe a whole lot in yourself, and still be as modest as a new--hatched
chicken. That's what he reminds me of, too."

 The following morning Baird halted him outside the set on which he
would work that day. Again he had been made up by the Montague girl,
with especial attention to the eyebrows so that they might show the
Parmalee lift.

"I just want to give you the general dope of the piece before you go on," said Baird, in the
shelter of high canvas backing. "You're the only son of a widowed mother and both you and she
are toiling to pay off the mortgage on the little home. You're the cashier of this business
establishment, and in love with the proprietor's daughter, only she's a society girl and kind
of looks down on you at first. Then, there's her brother, the proprietor's only son. He's the
clerk in this place. He doesn't want to work, but his father has made him learn the business,
see? He's kind of a no-good; dissipated; wears flashy clothes and plays the races and shoots
craps and drinks. You try to reform him because he's idolized by his sister that you're in
love with.

