Prof. CHRISTEN. Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, this is quite a novel experience to me. I do not
even know how these hearings are carried on, but I am entirely at your disposal and shall be
very glad to answer questions. If I had my own way I would like to speak for at least an hour
and a half or two hours, but I understand that you can not give me so much time. Therefore,
it will be rather difficult to put in all the information I would like to lay before you. I
should like to tell you something about the absurd and ridiculous linguistic chaos to which
the world has been brought through those great agencies of progress which have now practically
abolished distance and brought the ends of the earth nearer to each other than were the opposite
frontiers of the smallest kingdom 400 years ago; (1)[1] then about the advisability, nay, the
absolute necessity of an international language; how various attempts have been made to meet
this growing demand for a special international language, not for home consumption but only
for intercourse with all other nations, and why this one is, in my opinion and in that of many
wiser men, bound to succeed, and that is because it absolutely fills the bill and is fool-proof;
as a scientific and at the same time practical scheme, it can not be improved upon. Next, I
should like to speak about the reason why neither English, nor any other living language, can
ever become international. No living language can become international because they are all
too difficult, too complicated, and not neutral; (2) and then, perhaps, I ought to give you
a few outlines of the construction of Esperanto to show you why it is so easy, how it meets
all the requirements of the case, and is going to succeed. However, I do not suppose I shall
be able to do all of this, and, therefore, will merely take a few points.

   [1]See additions to verbatim report of hearing.

Dr. Bartholdt has mentioned to you the movement that is already in existence for Esperanto.
Here is the official yearbook of the Universala Esperanto-Asocio (3), the best-organized international
society that the movement has yet produced. This society is called the Universal Esperanto
Association. It is not a propaganda society, but purely a commercial league for the coordained
use of the language, not merely for the spread of it, but for its practical use among those
who have already learned it. This association has 698 branches throughout the world, and is
in its sixth year. Here is a map showing the places in which the society is represented, and
to-day, if I want any information on any industrial, commercial, educational, scientific, or
any other matter--say, in Portugal, Russia, Japan, Spain, Belgium, Holland, or China, etc.--I
look up the place nearest to the district from which I want that information and find the address
of the Esperanto center there. Then I write to the delegate and ask for the information in
Esperanto, and no matter what language he speaks at home I will get a reply in Esperanto, and
he will take any amount of trouble to satisfy my demands. This society has done a remarkable
amount of excellent work in the last five years, and Esperanto is more and more used for all
practical international purposes.

Now, Dr. Bartholdt told you about many commercial houses in different countries already using
Esperanto practically, that is to say, actually using it for their business purposes internationally,
printing their circulars, price lists, catalogues, and so on, in Esperanto, and using it for
correspondence.

I am reminded that seven years ago, in the north of Scotland, I saw a communication to a Scotch
railroad company from a French railroad company written in English, but across the communication
there were stamped the words, "We correspond in Esperanto." And that was six or seven years
ago, and since that time Esperanto has made very great strides.

I have here a number of trade catalogues in Esperanto, and you will see from the nature of
them that they are really very elaborate things and on which these firms have spent a great
deal of money, which they would not do if they did not think the thing was actually paying.
I have only about 40 such samples here because I can not carry them all about with me. For
instance, here is a very elaborate, costly, and handsome catalogue from the biggest firm of
photographic instrument makers in Germany, and, I believe, in the world.

Here is a pamphlet issued by the Chamber of Commerce of Los Angeles, a very attractive pamphlet.
That was published in order to attract European immigration to that portion of California,
and that same chamber of commerce has made large use of Esperanto for that purpose. Two years
ago they sent a man to lecture all over Europe and in some parts of Asia on the attractions
of California. That lecturer visited 27 different countries; he lectured in 120 different towns
during 18 months and every one of his lectures was given in Esperanto, and in several places
he was obliged to give his lecture two or three times, because the crowds that came were so
large that it was impossible for everybody who desired to hear the lecture to get in at the
same time. There were large numbers of people in every place who actually understood him; all
did not understand him, but a large number did in every town. For instance, in Paris and Barcelona
there are many thousands who understand Esperanto. Here is another German firm in Berlin. Here
is a bookseller in Paris issuing a catalogue entirely in Esperanto. Here is a leaflet about
the Panama Exposition published in Esperanto. Here is the town of Baden, a watering place near
Vienna. They publish a guide of their town in Esperanto. Here is a catalogue issued by the
Oliver Typewriter Co. printed in Esperanto. Cook's famous touring agency has used Esperanto
for the last seven years. Here is a Scotch tea firm publishing a circular in Esperanto. Here
is a bicycle-saddle maker in Germany using Esperanto for publicity. Here is a Berlin taximeter
catalogue in Esperanto. Two years ago there was held in Leipsic the greatest hygienic exposition
ever held anywhere. It was the most successful of its kind up to date, and hundreds of thousands
of people attended from all over the world. In that exposition Esperanto was used to a great
extent and the exhibition authorities published a guide to the exposition in Esperanto. Here
is a railroad company that uses Esperanto. A great many railroad companies in Europe already
use it. They issue regional guides to the most attractive parts of their districts in Esperanto.
Here is a Paris automobile company with a circular in Esperanto. Here is the biggest iron works
in England, the Consett Iron Co., of Durham, a firm that employs 30,000 hands, and that firm
publishes its catalogues and price lists in Esperanto. This is only one of their Esperanto
publications.

Here is a circular issued by a Paris department store. All the big department stores of Paris
not only use Esperanto in their publications, but actually have interpreters for Esperanto
in their stores. The biggest ink firm in the world--the Stephens Blue Ink Co., in London--use
this language for their correspondence. About six years ago they began to use Esperanto and
published their advertisements and their circulars for foreign trade entirely in Esperanto.
The town of Antwerp publishes an illustrated guide of the town in Esperanto. Here is a very
big Anglo-American firm of medical supplies, Burroughs, Wellcome & Co., and they use Esperanto
in many of their circulars. The Government of Brazil three years ago sent a man to lecture
in Europe as to the attractions of Brazil. That man lectured in Paris to an audience of 3,000
people entirely in Esperanto, and the Government published his lecture in that language. Here
is a curious document. This was issued by the anti-alcohol congress in Italy last year, and
you will notice that Esperanto is used, and that it is recommended as the only remedy against
the language trouble which entirely hampered the deliberations of this congress, as it does
all international conventions of every kind. I will hand this to Mrs. Crafts, because she will
be able to tell you more about it, since she was there.

That is the commercial side of it, and these are only a very few samples of the actual and
practical use being made of Esperanto in this one alone. I could produce, no doubt, a great
many more such examples, but I can not carry them all about with me. Here are some 60 to 70
guide leaflets published by so many different towns in France, in Italy, in Austria, in Germany,
in England, and in several other countries--leaflets printed in Esperanto for the use of foreigners
and tourists. They give them information in Esperanto about the various things they might first
need to know on arriving at those cities. For instance, here is Milan, Italy, and Poitiers,
France, and Insbruck. Austria, and Tavia, Italy, and Davos, Switzerland, and so on. In the
same line here are 20 more elaborate guidebooks to various towns in Europe, published entirely
in Esperanto by the local authorities. Of course, you will not have the time to look at all
these things just now, but I will leave them with you. Then, again, I think I can safely say
that there are over 100 periodicals published in Esperanto in different countries.

Esperanto is making very rapid progress in Japan and China; for instance, I have here an excellent
Esperanto paper published by a native society in Japan.

The CHAIRMAN. In what nation is it progressing most rapidly?

Prof. CHRISTEN. That is difficult to say, but seven years ago France was at the head, and Germany
did not take it up for a long time. Then about five or six years ago England shot ahead of
France, and then suddenly Germany took it up, and now I think Germany is ahead of all the other
countries in the practical use of Esperanto. But it is making good progress everywhere--in
France, in England, in Denmark, in Bulgaria, in Spain, in South America, in Germany, in India,
in China, and in Japan. In Germany the authorities and scientific people have very strongly
espoused Esperanto. For instance, the Government of Saxony sustains financially an Esperanto
institute in Dresden, and that does a great deal of good work. The Government of Saxony is
also a large contributor to an Esperanto library, which is the biggest in the world, as yet.
And in many towns in Spain, in Germany, and in France, especially in France, whenever an Esperanto
lecturer goes into a town he gets a stipend from the town; the town pays out of the city funds
the expenses of his propaganda, or partly pays them; they contribute 50 or 100 francs, and
frequently more, according to the size of the place. That is the practice in many places in
other countries besides France, but especially in France. Even the Russian Government gives
financial aid to Esperanto propaganda.

The CHAIRMAN. As I understand it, this is not supposed to be a universal language?

Prof. CHRISTEN. No; an international language.

The CHAIRMAN. But at the same time it is a language in which all the universe can meet upon
a common plane and converse?

Prof. CHRISTEN. That is the intention, to give the whole of the civilized world one and the
same secondary language.

The CHAIRMAN. In which they can all meet on a common plane?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes; no matter where you may go, if you know Esperanto, you shall not be a
foreigner anywhere. The intention is to do away with this terrible handicap of being unable
to converse with your fellow men of the various countries you may visit unless you learn all
or most of those languages, a thing which, as you know, is in most cases quite impossible.
It is the intention to have all the nations understand Esperanto, and by that means make it
possible for all the peoples of the world to commune directly with each other. The time has
come in the world's history when a common vehicle of human expression is absolutely necessary,
and the barrier of Babel must fall, as mostly all other obstacles to free intercourse have
already fallen, before the triumphant advance of modern science and technology. It is positively
fatuous and futile to ask the modern man, be he in commerce or science or what not, to become
an expert in his particular line of endeavor and a polyglot besides. It can not be done. Languages
are too many and each one too complicated for our crowded curricula. The obligatory study of
foreign languages belongs to a remote past when there existed no sciences and no industrial
arts, when life was less crowded and when there were fewer world languages. Even less than
a hundred years ago a man was an accomplished cosmopolitan if he knew French and his own mother
tongue. To-day he wants and ought to be conversant with French, German, and Spanish, at the
very least, besides English, and before long he will have to tackle Russian and Japanese. As
a matter of fact in some of the European countries and in South America the school children
actually spend from 35 to 60 per cent of the school time in acquiring that sort of an education,
which is really not education at all but only a means to an end.

The CHAIRMAN. What progress has Esperanto made in the United States?

Prof. CHRISTEN. In this matter the United States is behind all other progressive countries.
There have been many sporadic efforts made and there are Esperanto groups in different places
from New York and Boston to Chicago, San Francisco, Seattle, Portland, Tacoma, etc., but as
a national movement it is not what it should be, and the difficulty is, to far as I can make
it out, the enormous size of the country. It is difficult for a society, without very large
funds, to carry on an effective propaganda all over the country.

Then another difficulty is that Americans are not generally very much given to what I should
call ethical ideas of this kind, that offer no immediate and sudden cash returns, until they
really become a craze or until a certain class, perhaps, takes them up. (4) Let us not forget
also that the American people are not so much in touch with the language difficulty as are
other countries, and they do not yet appreciate the enormous use that Esperanto will be to
them, for, in my opinion, no white people will benefit more from Esperanto than will the American
people, chiefly because like all English-speaking nations they are very poor linguists. Then
it is becoming more and more acknowledged among educational people that the English language
is the only language that can not be taught. It is well known that if you put educated people
from different countries together the Anglo-Saxon will invariably be the one who understands
his own language least. That is due to the peculiar construction of the English language.

However, Esperanto would not be difficult for the American people because it is so scientific,
so logical, and entirely free of all irregularities. Prof. Mayer, of the University of Oxford,
learned Esperanto in his seventy-ninth year. I heard him make a speech in the language about
six or seven days after he took it up, and he declared that Esperanto ought to be introduced
into the educational system of the country. He was professor of the Latin language at the Oxford
University. He declared Esperanto ought to be introduced into the schools, into the kindergartens,
where children of 5 years of age should begin with Esperanto, and I hold with him, because
if children were to learn Esperanto it would be of help to them in their English. It is extremely
easy to learn and can be learned in a very pleasant fashion, because it is so scientific and
so simple. (5)

If children understood Esperanto, they would understand English better, and much of the time
we waste in trying to teach them English would be profitably spent, for they would have something
to go upon, something to compare English with, and that something so scientific and so logical
as Esperanto. Take, for instance, analysis. I will not say it is difficult but I will say it
is impossible to analyze an English word, because every word can be so many things. It can
generally be an adjective, a noun, a verb, a preposition, a conjunction, and an interjection,
that is, the same word, without any structural change, so that it is difficult for a child
to discriminate and label the word. Take the word "benefited." That might be used in the past
tense (I benefited), or as a past participle: (We may have benefited), and it is impossible
for a child to sense the difference, and such confusion occurs to a great extent with most
words in the English language.

I am a teacher of languages and have done nothing all my life but study and impart languages.
If I had to teach you gentlemen, say, French upon the theory that you were going on an important
mission this day 12 months, and that it was absolutely necessary that you should speak French
(or any other language that I could impart you) by that time, I would say it was impossible
for a number of busy men to acquire a new language inside one year; that I could not guarantee
useful results, but that if you would take two months to start with for the learning of Esperanto,
then I might be able to teach you the other language in the rest of the time, because Esperanto
is the best foundation for learning any language. And, as I say, an English-speaking student,
be he young or old, knowing Esperanto would more easily distinguish the parts of speech in
English and possess a real and valuable "linguistic feeling" (which he now entirely lacks)
because of his Esperanto.

The CHAIRMAN. Is Esperanto made up of the derivatives of the various languages?

Prof. CHRISTEN. I will explain that, if you like, in a very few words. Esperanto is the work
of a Polish scholar, Dr. Ludovico L. Zamenhof, who started with an inspired mind. I should
say he was a great genius. He had studied a large number of languages, for, as a boy, nay,
as a child in the cradle, he spoke four languages, because so many different languages were
actually spoken in his home town. Then at school he learned several more and it is due to this
polyglotic experience and the evils caused daily by Babel in his own circle that as a child,
almost, he conceived the idea of constructing a language that should at once and for all time
put an end to a foolish and intolerable situation. He must have been inspired in what he did,
because he at once hit upon the only possible solution of the thing, and he hit upon it without
knowing that scores of others, older and more learned, had tried the same thing and failed.
His first stroke of genius was in the composing of his entire vocabulary by borrowing all his
words from well-known sources. With the true insight of the genius he decided that the words
of an artificial international language must be taken from international sources, and so he
first of all hit upon the good idea to use first of all those words which are already common
to most languages, and there are a great many more such words than we have dreamed of. He decided
that that should be the starting point of his world tongue, because everybody would know those
words to start with. Take the names of animals and produce that come from certain parts of
the world and carry their names with them, such as elephant, tiger, lion, camel, and a great
many more. Take the rose: the rose is a rose in every language; so an orange, a lemon, a nut,
and tea, coffee, and tobacco, etc., are the same in most languages. They may not be spelled
the same or pronounced the same, but they are international, and therefore they are Esperanto.
That was the foundation of the vocabulary in Zamenhof's new language--take words that everybody
would know and use them in Esperanto (6).

Mr. TOWNER. How do you determine those common names?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Well, he formed his vocabulary; he selected these words because they were international--to
the exclusion of anything else.

Mr. TOWNER. Well, that was not definite; it might be enlarged?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Oh, yes.

Mr. TOWNER. What was the vocabulary that he first issued?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Offhand, I think, about 963 words.

Mr. TOWNER. What is the vocabulary now?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Probably about 3,000 words. Now, I have dealt with the so-called international
words; but the bulk of every language consists of what I would call home words, which every
country has for its own; and the only way to bring equivalents for such words into the language
was to select them from all the principal languages under consideration, which means, of course,
the European languages and to select these words on the principle of greatest internationality--that
is to say, such verbs as to come, to do, to write, etc., or the nouns, hand, knife, water,
table, etc., or adjectives, like good, bad, healthy, etc. Before he put these words into his
vocabulary, Zamenhof had their equivalents in all the European languages before him, and then
he took from the whole list the root which was the most prominent, the root that occurred oftenest,
and this became Esperanto, the idea being that the words selected should be common to at least
four or five different languages.

Mr. TOWNER. You do not mean that, do you? You do not mean that the only words you would put
into the Esperanto vocabulary would be those that might be common to at least four or five
of the principal languages?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes; whenever it is possible to find such words, and the words do not conflict
with the general harmony of the language.

Mr. TOWNER. That is what I thought you meant.

Prof. CHRISTEN. The consequence is that a language formed on these lines must be a Latin or
Romance language because Latin gave birth to at least six languages: French, Italian, Spanish,
Portuguese, Roumanian, and English, and besides, Latin and French have influenced and enriched
the literature and languages of every other modern nation. The dictionary of Latin words contained,
for instance, in Russian or German would be a very large volume indeed. It is a fact that all
modern attempts at making an artificial language, and their name is legion, especially since
the acknowledged success of Esperanto, are based on Latin. Consequently also, the international
language must be largely English, because mostly those Latin words will be chosen that are
common at least to French and English. I have lectured to hundreds of English audiences, and
I have given them numerous examples of Esperanto words in my lectures that could be easily
understood by everybody. Take the words "skribi," to write; "lerni," to learn; "mangxi," to
eat; "trinki," to drink; "tablo," a table; "glaso," a glass; "nazo," the nose, and "busxo,"
the mouth; "mano," the hand; take the adjectives, bona, bela, granda, kapabla, etc. Few, indeed,
are the Esperanto words that do not connect at all with the English; in most cases, in at least
87 cases out of 100, you will find those words connect with one or many English words.

Mr. TOWNER. You mean that 87 per cent of the words now in the Esperanto vocabulary are formative
words?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes: they are connected with the English language, and from each Esperanto
word you can form mechanically absolutely every word that sense and logic can possibly connect
with the one and only meaning of the original Esperanto word. I am accustomed to lecturing
before audiences and making this statement, which I make without fear of contradiction, that
"if all of you were to take up Esperanto now and carry it on until you were as expert in it
as I am, you would not in the whole of your studies come across more than 60 words, probably
not more than 50 words, which are entirely new to you."

Mr. TOWNER. Of course, a vocabulary of 3,000 words is a very limited vocabulary; it is a primitive
vocabulary?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes?

Mr. TOWNER. How are you going to increase it? For instance, how are you going to make it a
literary language? How are you going to write poems?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Personally I should not want an international language for poetry, although
Esperanto does in fact lend itself excellently to the purposes of the muses. But to answer
your question: First of all, the Esperanto language does not contain any words at all; I think
there are only 138 full-fledged words, prepositions, adverbs, and conjunctions, but the rest
of the vocabulary is formed of roots only. Let us take the words "to sew," "to stitch." The
root is "kudr." It is only a root, and that alone stands in the vocabulary. Now, if you want
to make this root into a noun "o" is added to it, "kudro": if you want to make it an adjective,
you add "a" to it, "kudra"; if you want to make it an adverb you add "e," kudre, which would
mean by or through sewing, "sewingly," if it could be so expressed in English; and if you want
to make it a verb it would be "kudri," because every infinitive ends in "i." You see, with
that root to begin with you can form four words, and you can express a great deal more in Esperanto
than anybody can possibly imagine; in fact Esperanto is, on account of its perfect and absolutely
complete flexibility, more precise and more comprehensive than any language under the sun.
As I said before, you can form four words from every root at the start if sense allows it,
and sense allows you a great deal more leeway in Esperanto than anybody can possibly know about,
because in no language are you allowed to proceed by sense. The English language does not allow
it, nor does any other, not oven German or Greek, but it is allowed in this most logical of
all languages, Esperanto. (7)

Mr. TOWNER. Take the illustration you have just used. We say "The sewing is beautiful." and
"We find her sewing assiduously." Now, we use the same word, but the formation of the sentence
determines whether or not it is a noun or a verb.

Prof. CHRISTEN. You mean the distinction between the participle and the noun?

Mr. TOWNER. Yes.

Prof. CHRISTEN. With your permission I will not answer that particularly, but will deal with
the whole subject. I want to say that from every root you form four words, the four principal
parts of speech. And the first thing to remember is this positive stroke of genius--that every
noun ends with "o," every adjective with "a," every derived adverb with "e," and every infinitive
with "i."

Mr. TOWNER. How would you carry that to proper names?

Prof. CHRISTEN. London would be Londono; Robert is Roberto, but proper names you are at liberty
to do with as you please; give them the Esperanto ending or leave them in the original form.

Mr. TOWNER. What about Washington?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Washingtono.

Mr. TOWNER. I mean, you would really change it?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes; if you prefer it; that is, if it sounds better.

Mr. TOWNER. In the language?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes.

Mr. TOWNER. For instance, if you were speaking about the city of Washington, you would not
say Washington, but Washingtono?

Prof. CHRISTEN. You will find it frequently printed as Washingtono.

Mr. TOWNER. Why do you do that, because Washingtono is not the name of the city?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Let me say that you say London in English, but that is not French.

Mr. TOWNER. But we always spell Paris the French way, although we do not pronounce it the same
way; that is, "Paree."

Prof. CHRISTEN. But London is not London in French; it is "Londres" in French.

Mr. TOWNER. Do you mean to say that if a letter were addressed to London from Paris the Frenchman
would not pronounce and write it London but Londres?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes.

Mr. TOWNER. He does not say London?

Prof. CHRISTEN. No, he says Londres. And the same is true with Dover; Dover is not French;
The French would be Douvres. However, I want to say this, that after the first three or four
years after I took up Esperanto geographical or proper names were left optional and they were
not given any particular spelling in the Esperanto language and are not now. Many Esperantists
now would say Washington and London. But you can make the change if you want to.

Mr. TOWNER. Internationally, has not that come to be the custom, to pronounce the geographical
names and proper names in the way they are pronounced in the country in which they originate?

Prof. CHRISTEN. I think so. As I said, there is no arbitrary rule about personal names or geographical
names. Now, let me proceed with this marvelous scheme and repeat that every part of speech
is distinctive in itself; that is the reason a child, when it follows Esperanto, will not find
English so hard and will understand English better than in any other way. Such a child will
understand English far better than if it did not understand Esperanto, and that is a statement
I often make in my lectures.

Mr. RIPLEY. We had a man here the other day who has a language which he claims is an improvement
on Esperanto.

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes?

Mr. RIPLEY. He is from Ohio, I believe.

Prof. CHRISTEN. I know. Since Esparanto began to move forward there have been at least 30 to
40 different schemes elaborated, and that is easily done. You can do it overnight. But there
is no scheme that has ever touched and no scheme that can ever touch Esperanto, because it
has hit the mark from the first. (8)

Mr. TOWNER. What do you do with adverbs? Do they have a definite form?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Every derived adverb ends in "e."

Mr. TOWNER. So you could not distinguish from the form between a verb and an adverb, could you?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Perfectly. The adverb ends in "e" and the infinitive ends in "i."

Mr. RIPLEY. It is your contention that children will do better in English if they acquire a
knowledge of Esperanto?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Undoubtedly; this is a statement I make in my lectures: If you gentlemen will
give me a number of children aged 4 or 5 years I will give them a quarter of an hour's pleasant
explanation about grammar, that is Esperanto grammar, and they will understand it after a quarter
of an hour's explanation; then I will jumble together a number of blocks, with various words
on these blocks, and I will say to these children "pick out every noun," and they will be able
to do it--that is, pick the nouns from the adjectives--and so with every part of speech.

The CHAIRMAN. Because they will know to a certainty?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes; every word tells its own tale on account of its distinctive ending. Now,
that is a thing you can not do in English; that nobody can do in English, because we can not
tell the parts of speech simply by the appearance of the words; we can only know from the context
and that is not always easy!

The CHAIRMAN. How does that apply to other languages?

Prof. CHRISTEN. The same thing applies more or less to all, because they are all irregular;
they were not formed; they have "growd" like Topsy.

Mr. TOWNER. The Latin language is more regular?

