PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

November 28, 1891.

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. VII.--TO VANITY.

DEAR VANITY,

Imagine my feelings when I read the following letter. It lay quite innocently on my breakfast-table
in a heap of others. It was stamped in the ordinary way, post-marked in the ordinary way, and
addressed correctly, though how the charming writer discovered my address I cannot undertake
to say; in fact, there was nothing in its outward appearance to distinguish it from the rest
of my everyday correspondence. I opened it carelessly, and this is what I read:--

RIDICULOUS BEING,--In the course of a fairly short life I have read many absurd things, but
never in all my existence have I read anything so absurd as your last letter. I don't say that
your amiable story about HERMIONE MAYBLOOM is not absolutely true; in fact, I knew HERMIONE
very slightly myself when everybody was raving about her, and I never could understand what
all you men (for, of course, you are a man; no woman could be so foolish) saw in her to make
you lose your preposterous heads. To me she always seemed silly and affected, and not in the
least pretty, with her snub nose, and her fuzzy hair. So I am rather glad, not from any personal
motive, but for the sake of truth and justice, that you have shown her up. No; what I do complain
of is, your evident intention to make the world believe that only women are vain. You pretend
to lecture us about our shortcomings, and you don't seem to know that there is no vainer creature
in existence than a man. No peacock that ever strutted with an expanded tail is one-half so
ridiculous or silly as a man. I make no distinctions--all men are the same; at least, that's
my experience, and that of every woman I ever met.

How do you suppose a woman like HERMIONE succeeds as she does? Why she finds out (it doesn't
take long, I assure you) the weak points of the men she meets; their wretched jealousies, affectations
and conceits, and then artfully proceeds to flatter them and make each of them think his particular
self the lord of creation, until she has all the weak and foolish creatures wound round her
little finger, and slavishly ready to fetch and carry for her. And all the time you go about
and boast of your conquest to one another, and imagine that you have subjugated her. But she
sits at home and laughs at you, and despises you all from the flinty bottom of her heart. Bah!
you're a pack of fools, and I've no patience with you. As for you personally, if you must write
any more, tell your fellow men something about their own follies. It won't be news to us, but
it may open their eyes. If you can't do that, you had better retire into your tub, and cease
your painful barking altogether. I've got my eye on you, so be careful. I remain (thank goodness)

A WOMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that was not altogether an agreeable breakfast dish. And the worst of it was that it was
so supremely unjustifiable. Had my indignant correspondent honoured me with her address, I
should have answered her at once. "Madam," I should have said, "your anger outstrips your reason.
I always intended to say something about men. I had already begun a second letter to my friend
VANITY on the subject. I can therefore afford to forgive your hard words, and to admit that
there is a certain amount of truth in your strictures on us. But please don't write to me again
so furiously. Such excessive annoyance is quite out of keeping with your pretty handwriting,
and besides, it takes away my appetite to think I have even involuntarily given you pain. Be
kind enough to look out for my next letter, but don't, for goodness' sake, tell me what you
think about it, unless it should happen to please you. In that case I shall, of course, be
proud and glad to hear from you again."

I now proceed, therefore, to carry out my intention, and, as usual, I address myself to the
fountain head. My dear VANITY, I never shall understand why you take so much trouble to get
hold of men. They are not a pleasing sight when you have got them, and after a time it must
cease to amuse even you to see yourself reproduced over and over again, and in innumerable
ridiculous ways. For instance, there is Dr. PEAGAM, the celebrated author of Indo-Hebraic Fairy
Tales: a new Theory of their Rise and Development, with an Excursus on an Early Aryan Version
of "Three Blind Mice." Dr. PEAGAM is learned; he has the industry of a beaver; he is a correspondent
of goodness knows how many foreign philosophical, philological, and mythological societies;
his record of University distinctions has never been equalled; his advice has been sought by
German Professors. Yet he carries all this weight of celebrity and learning as lightly as if
it were a wideawake, and seems to think nothing of it. But he has his weak point, and, like
Achilles, he has it in his feet.

This veteran investigator, this hoary and venerable Doctor, would cheerfully give years off
his life if only the various philosophers who from time to time sit at his feet would recognise
that those feet are small, and compliment him on the fact. They are small, there is no doubt
of it, but not small enough to be encased without agony in the tiny, natty, pointed boots that
he habitually wears. Let anybody who wants to get anything out of Dr. PEAGAM lead the conversation
craftily on to the subject of feet and their proper size. Let him then make the discovery (aloud)
that the Doctor's feet are extraordinarily small and beautiful, and I warrant that there is
nothing the Doctor can bestow which shall not be freely offered to this cunning flatterer.
That is why Dr. PEAGAM, a modest man in most respects, always insists on sitting in the front
row on any platform, and ostentatiously dusts his boots with a red silk pocket-handkerchief.

Then, again, who is there that has not heard of Major-General WHACKLEY, V.C., the hero who
captured the ferocious Ameer of Mudwallah single-handed, and carried him on his back to the
English camp--the man to whose dauntless courage, above all others, the marvellous victory
of Pilferabad was due? Speak to him on military matters, and you will find the old warrior
as shy as a school-girl; but only mention the word poetry, and you'll have him reciting his
ballads and odes to you by the dozen, and declaiming for hours together about the obtuseness
of the publishing fraternity.

I don't speak now of literary men who value themselves above LAMB, DICKENS, and THACKERAY,
rolled into one; nor of artists who sneer at TITIAN; nor of actors who hold GARRICK to be absurdly
overrated. Space would fail me, and patience you. But let me just for a brief moment call to
your mind ROLAND PRETTYMAN. Upon my soul, I think ROLAND the most empty-headed fribble, the
most affected coxcomb, and the most conceited noodle in the whole world. He was decently good-looking
once, and he had a pretty knack of sketching in water-colours.

But oh, the huge, distorted, overweening conceit of the man! I have seen him lying full length
on a couch, waving a scented handkerchief amongst a crowd of submissive women, who were grovelling
round him, while he enlarged in his own pet jargon on the surpassing merits of his latest unpublished
essay, or pointed out the beauties of the trifling pictures which were the products of his
ineffective brush. He will never accomplish anything, and yet to the end of his life, I fancy,
he will have his circle of toadies and flatterers who will pretend to accept him as the evangelist
of a glorious literary and artistic gospel. For unfortunately he is as rich as he is impudent
and incompetent. And when he drives out in a Hansom he never ceases to simper at his reflected
image in the little corner looking-glasses, by means of which modern cab-proprietors pander
to the weakness of men. Such is your handiwork, my excellent VANITY. Are you proud of it?

Yours, &c.,

DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.

"ONE WHO DOESN'T KNOW EVERYTHING."--You ask, What are the duties of "the Ranger"? Household
duties only. He has to inspect the kitchen-ranges in the kitchens of Buckingham Palace, Windsor
Castle, Balmoral, and Osborne. Hence the style and title. He also edits Cook's Guides.

"ANOTHER IDIOT" wishes to know if there is such an appointment in the gift of the Crown as
the office of "Court Sweep." Why, certainly; and, on State occasions, he wears the Court Soot,
and his broom is always waiting for him at the entrance! At Balmoral and Osborne there is a
beautiful sweep leading the visitor right up to the front door.

"ONE MORE UNFORTUNATE" writes us,--"Sir, in what poem of MILTON's does the following couplet
occur?--

  I'll light the gas soon,
  To play the bas-soon.

How are the lines to be scanned?" Ans.--On internal evidence, we question whether the lines
are MILTON's. In the absence of our Poet, who is out for a holiday, we can only reply, that
if shortsighted, you can scan them by the aid of a powerful glass--of your favourite compound.

       *       *       *       *       *

    ["The Associated Chamber of Commerce ask that the Coastguard
    stations, shore-lighthouses, rock lighthouses, and light-ships
    of the United Kingdom, should, as far as possible, be
    connected by telegraph or telephone with the general telegraph
    system of the country, 'as a means for the protection of life
    and property, as well as for national defence.'... France and
    America, Holland and Denmark, provide their seamen with this
    great safeguard in the hour of their utmost need. IS England
    content to let her sailors die by hundreds for want of a
    little money, or for want of a little care?"--Times.]

  Prospero. Why, that's my spirit!
        But was not this nigh shore?

  Ariel.      Close by, my master.

  Prospero. But are they, Ariel, safe?

  Ariel.      Not a hair perish'd.

          Tempest, Act I., Scene 2.

  CONTENT? There's many an English heart will hear with fierce amaze
  That England lags so far behind in these electric days--
  England, whose seamen are her shield, who vaunts in speech and song,
  The love she bears her mariners! Wake, CAMPBELL, swift and strong
  Of swell and sweep as the salt waves you sang as none could sing!
  Rouse DIBDIN, of the homelier flight, but steady waft of wing!
  Poetic shades, this question, sure, should pierce the ear of death,
  And make ye vocal once again with quick, indignant breath.
  Content? Whilst round our rocky coasts the souls who guard them sink,
  Death clutching from the clamorous brine, hope beaconing from the brink,
  With lifted hands toward the lights that beam but to betray,
  Because dull Britons fail to think, or hesitate to pay?
  No! With that question a fierce thrill through countless listeners went,
  And, hoarse with indignation, rings the answer, "Not Content!"

  When the Armada neared our coast in days now dubbed as "dark,"
  Pre-scientific Englishmen, whom no Electric Spark
  Had witched with its white radiance, yet sped from height to height
  Of Albion's long wild sea-coast line the ruddy warning Light.
  "Cape beyond Cape, in endless range, those twinkling points of fire"[1]
  Reveillé shot from sea to sea, from wave-washed shire to shire,
  Inland, from hill to hill, it flashed wherever English hand
  Helpful at need in English cause could grip an English brand.
  To-day? Well, round our jutting cliffs, across our hollowing bays
  Thicker the light-ship beacons flash, the lighthouse lanterns blaze.
  From sweep to sweep, from steep to steep, our shores are starred with light,
  Burning across the briny floods through the black mirk of night,
  Forth-gleaming like the eyes of Hope, or like the fires of Home,
  Upon the eager eyes of men far-straining o'er the foam.
  Good! But how greatly less than good to fear, to think, to know
  That inland England's less alert against a whelming foe
  Than when bonfire and beacon flared mere flame of wood and pitch,
  From Surrey hills to Skiddaw!
            Science-dowered, serenely rich,
  Safe in its snugly sheltered homes, our England lies at ease,
  Whilst round her cliffs gale-scourged to wrath the tiger-throated seas
  Thunder in ruthless ravening rage, with rending crash and shock,
  Through the dull night and blinding drift on leagues of reef and rock.
  More furious than the Spaniards they, more fierce, persistent foes,
  These deep-gorged, pallid, foaming waves. Yes, bright the beacon glows,
  Warmly the lighthouse wafts its blaze of welcome o'er the brine;
  The shore's hard by, but where the hands to whirl the rescuing line?
  To launch the boat?--to hurl the buoy? The lighthouse men look out
  Upon their wreck-borne brethren there, their hearts are soft as stout,
  But signals will not pierce this dark, shouts rise o'er this fierce roar,
  Rescue may wait at hand, but--there's no cable to the shore!

  Content with this? That symbol, quoted oft,
  Must find new form to fit the time. The Ariel of the Spark
  Must watch around our storm-lashed coast in tempest and in dark,
  Guardian of homeward-bound Poor JACK, to spread the news of fear,
  And tell him, battling with the storm, that rescuing hands, though near,
  Are not made helpless in his hour of agonising need,
  By ignorance that heeds not, and neglect that fails to heed.

[Footnote 1: MACAULAY's Armada.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL BERRY WELL.

SIR,--As there is so much talk just now about the best way in which to make Coffee, I will
mention the plan I adopt, in the hope that some of your readers may imitate it in their own
homes. It is very simple. You take some of the excellent "Coffee Mixture," sold by the "Arabo-Egyptian
Pure Parisian Berry Company, Limited," at sixpence the pound. You need not give more than one
tea-spoon to every four persons, as the coffee is very good and thick. Add condensed milk,
and fill with water, after which, let the pot stand on the hob an hour before use. You would
be surprised at the quality of the fluid which results. It gives general satisfaction in my
own circle. My nephew, who lives with me, declares that it is the only genuine coffee he has
drunk since he returned from the East. He usually, however, has his breakfast out. My General
Servant says that "she prefers it to beer" (though she takes both), and has asked me for some
to send to an Aunt of hers with whom she has quarrelled. I think this very nice and forgiving
of her, and have allowed her a quarter of a pound for that purpose. My son-in-law, who unfortunately
is rather addicted to drink, says it is "the finest tap he ever tasted," and adds that if he
could be sure of always having such Coffee, he would join the Blue Ribbon Army at once. Hitherto
he has not joined.

  Yours humbly,
  MARTHA HUSWIFE.

SIR,--At my "Home for Elderly Orphans of Defective Brain Power," I give an excellent Coffee,
made of five parts chicory, and one of Mocha, supplied at a cheap rate by a House in the City,
which owes me money, and is paying it off in this way, with skim-milk added, in moderation,
and no sugar. None of the orphans has ever complained of my Coffee. I should like to catch
them doing so. It is nonsense to say the art of coffee-making is unknown in England.

  Yours, indignantly,
  CLEOPATRA JONES.

SIR,--Here is the recipe for Coffee which we use at this Buffet:--

"Place one pound of the 'Nonpareil Turkish Pasha's Special Brand Extract of finest Mocha' in
the urn in the morning. Pour on boiling water to half-way up. Let it stew all day. Draw off
as wanted, and dilute with 'Anglo-African Condensed Cows' Milk.'"

Strange to say, we do not find great demand either for Coffee or Tea (made on similar principles);
but it is as well that the Public should know that we have both in constant readiness, and
of first-class quality. The traveller who has drunk a cup of this Coffee in conjunction with
one of our celebrated Home-made Pork Pies, does not require anything else till the end of the
very longest journey, and, probably, not even then.

  KEEPER OF THE REFRESHMENT ROOM, STARVEM JUNCTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GEORGIAN ERA AT THE ALHAMBRA.--Mrs. ABBOTT is an electric wonder. Not strong muscularly,
but with sufficient electric power to support four or five of the inferior sex heaped anyhow
on a chair. Such a woman is a crown to a husband--nay, any amount of crowns at £200 per week--and
capable of supporting a family, however large, all by her own exertions, or indeed, with scarcely
any exertion at all. At present, though married, she is a femme seule: but how long will she
remain the only electric wonder in London? Many years ago there was a one-legged dancer named
DONATO. Within sixteen weeks there were as many one-legged dancers. We don't speak by the card,
of course, but one-legged dancers became a drug in the market. Already we hear of "A Dynamic
Phenomenon" at the Pavilion. Little Mrs. ABBOTT is an active, spry little person, yet her "vis
inertiæ" is, at present, without a parallel.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. XVI.

    SCENE--Terrace and Grounds of the Grand Hôtel Villa d'Este,
    on Lake Como. PODBURY and CULCHARD are walking up and down
    together.

Podbury. Well, old chap, your resigning like that has made all the difference to me, I can
tell you!

Culchard. If I have succeeded in advancing your cause with Miss PRENDERGAST, I am all the better
pleased, of course.

Podb. You have, and no mistake. She's regularly taken me in hand, don't you know--she says
I've no intelligent appreciation of Italian Art; and gad, I believe she's right there! But
I'm pulling up--bound to teach you a lot, seeing all the old altar-pieces I do! And she gives
me the right tips, don't you see; she's no end of a clever girl, so well-read and all that!
But I say--about Miss TROTTER? Don't want to be inquisitive, you know, but you don't seem to
be much about with her.

Culch. I--er--the feelings I entertain towards Miss TROTTER have suffered no change--quite
the reverse, only--and I wish to impress this upon you, PODBURY--it is undesirable, for--er--many
reasons, to make my attentions--er--too conspicuous. I--I trust you have not alluded to the
matter to--well, to Miss PRENDERGAST, for example?

Podb. Not I, old fellow--got other things to talk about. But I don't quite see why--

Culch. You are not required to see. I don't wish it, that is all. I--er--think that should
be sufficient.

Podb. Oh, all right, I'll keep dark. But she's bound to know sooner or later, now she and Miss
TROTTER have struck up such a friendship. And HYPATIA will be awfully pleased about it--why
shouldn't she, you know?... I'm going to see if there's anyone on the tennis-court, and get
a game if I can. Ta-ta!

Culch. (alone). PODBURY knows very little about women. If HYP--Miss PRENDERGAST--once found
out why I renounced my suitorship, I should have very little peace, I know that--I've taken
particular care not to betray my attachment to MAUD. I'm afraid she's beginning to notice it,
but I must be careful. I don't like this sudden intimacy between them--it makes things so very
awkward. They've been sitting under that tree over there for the last half-hour, and goodness
only knows what confidences they may have exchanged! I really must go up and put a stop to
it, presently.

UNDER THE TREE.

Hypatia. I only tell you all this, sweetest one, because I do think you have rather too low
an opinion of men as a class, and I wanted to show you that I have met at least one man who
was capable of a real and disinterested devotion.

Maud. Well, I allowed that was about your idea.

Hyp. And don't you recognise that it was very fine of him to give up everything for his friend's
sake?

Maud. I guess it depends how much "everything" amounted to.

Hyp. (annoyed). I thought, darling, I had made it perfectly plain what a sacrifice it meant
to him. I know how much he--I needn't tell you there are certain symptoms one cannot be deceived
in.

Maud. No, I guess you needn't tell me that, love. And it was perfectly lovely of him to give
you up, when he was under vow for you and all, sooner than stand in his friend's light--only
I don't just see how that was going to help his friend any.

Hyp. Don't you, dearest? Not when the friend was under vow for me, too?

Maud. Well, HYPATIA PRENDERGAST! And how many admirers do you have around under vow, as a regular
thing?

Hyp. There were only those two. RUSKIN permits as many as seven at one time.

Maud. That's a vurry liberal allowance, too. I don't see how there'd be sufficient suitors
to go round. But maybe each gentleman can be under vow for seven distinct girls, to make things
sort of square now?

Hyp. Certainly not. The whole beauty of the idea lies in the unselfish and exclusive devotion
of every knight to the same sovereign lady. In this case I happen to know that the--a--individual
had never met his ideal until--

Maud. Until he met you? At Nuremberg, wasn't it? My! And what was his name? Do tell!

Hyp. You must not press me, sweetest, for I cannot tell that--even to you.

Maud. I don't believe but what I could guess. But say, you didn't care any for him, or you'd
never have let him go like that? I wouldn't. I should have suspected there was something behind!

Hyp. My feelings towards him were purely potential. I did him the simple justice to believe
that his self-abnegation was sincere. But, with your practical, cynical little mind, darling,
you are hardly capable of--excuse me for saying so--of appreciating the real value and meaning
of such magnanimity!

Maud. Oh, I guess I am, though. Why, here's Mr. CULCHARD coming along. Well, Mr. CULCHARD?

Culch. I--ah--appear to have interrupted a highly interesting conversation?

Maud. Well, we were having a little discussion, and I guess you're in time to give the casting
vote--HYPATIA, you want to keep just where you are, do you hear? I mean you should listen to
Mr. CULCHARD's opinion.

Culch. (flattered). Which I shall be delighted to give, if you will put me in possession of
the--er--facts.

Maud. Well, these are the--er--facts. There were two gentlemen under vow--maybe you'll understand
the working of that arrangement better than I do?--under vow for the same young lady. [HYPATIA
PRENDERGAST, sit still, or I declare I'll pinch you!] One of them comes up and tells her that
he's arrived at the conclusion the other admirer is the better man, and, being a friend of
his, he ought to retire in his favour, and he does it, too, right away. Now I say that isn't
natural--he'd some other motive. Miss PRENDERGAST here will have it he was one of those noble
unselfish natures that deserve they should be stuffed for a museum. What's your opinion now?

Culch. (perspiring freely). Why--er--really, on so delicate a matter, I--I-- [He maunders.

Hyp. MAUD, why will you be so headstrong! (In a rapid whisper.) Can't you see ... can't you
guess?...

Maud. I guess I want to make sure Mr. CULCHARD isn't that kind of magnanimous man himself.
I shouldn't want him to renounce me!

Hyp. MAUD! You might at least wait until Mr. CULCHARD has--

Maud. Oh, but he did--weeks ago, at Bingen. And at Lugano, too, the other day, he spoke out
tolerable plain. I guess he didn't wish any secret made about it--did you, Mr. CULCHARD?

Culch. I--ah--this conversation is rather ... If you'll excuse me-- [Escapes with as much dignity
as he can command.

Maud. Well, my dear,--that's the sort of self-denying hairpin he is! What do you think of him now?

Hyp. I do not think so highly of him, I confess. His renunciation was evidently less prompted
by consideration for his friend than by a recollection--tardy enough, I am afraid--of the duty
which bound him to you, dearest. But if you had seen and heard him, as I did, you would not
have doubted the reality of the sacrifice, whatever the true reason may have been. For myself,
I am conscious of neither anger nor sorrow--my heart, as I told you, was never really affected.
But what must it be to you, darling!

Maud. Well, I believe I'm more amused than anything.

Hyp. Amused! But surely you don't mean to have anything more to do with him?

Maud. My dear girl, I intend to have considerable more to do with him before I'm through. He's
under vow for me now, anyway, and I don't mean he should forget it, either. He's my monkey,
and he's got to jump around pretty lively, at the end of a tolerable short chain, too. And
I guess, if it comes to renouncing, all the magnanimity's going to be on my side this time!

IN AN AVENUE.

Culch. (to himself, as he walks hurriedly on). I only saved myself in time. I don't think MAUD
noticed anything--she couldn't nave been so innocent and indifferent if she had.... And HYPATIA
won't enlighten her any further now--after what she knows. It's rather a relief that she does
know.... She took it very well, poor girl--very well. I expect she is really beginning to put
up with PODBURY--I'm sure I hope so, sincerely!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"I dearly love reading a ghost-story," quoth the Baron, "when, as the song says, 'The lights
are low, And the flickering shadows, Softly come and go.' And I did hope that Cecilia de Noël
was going to be just the very sort of book for a winter's fireside. Disappointed. There is
a ghost in it, and there's Cecilia de Noël (good Christmassy name, isn't it?) who instructs
the ghost in his neglected Catechism; for the ghost is as much an Atheist as the unbelieving
Sadducee in this same story, who, after all, is not converted. 'Alas! Poor Ghost!' Very poor
ghost! Bring me another ghost!" cries the Baron. No other ghost is forthcoming to the invocation,
but a book is placed in his hands entitled Fourteen to One. The Baron was about to dismiss
it as a betting book--judging by its title--when his eye caught the name of ELIZABETH STUART
PHELPS as authoress. So he read many of the short stories therein. She has in many places the
touch of DICKENS. All are good; but for pathos, keen observation, and dramatic surprise, "give
me," says the Baron, emphatically, "the short story of The Madonna of the Tubs." Admirable!
Those who take and act upon the Baron's tip, will do well to ask for Fourteen to One, and see
that they get it.

What are the Baron's sentiments as to Christmas things? He refused to have anything to say
to games and cards. Cards--well, we all know whose books some puritanical party said they were.
But these comic and artistic Christmas Cards of RAPHAEL TUCK do not come into that category;
and same is to be said of Messrs. HILDESHEIMER's, so there's an end on't. Henceforth, says
the Baron, "No Cards."

