"Love couldn't make a man a traitor," said Marie, "nor yet a coward."

"I don't know, Mademoiselle, love is a very fearful thing when it doesn't go right. Perhaps
love never made you feel so angry that you'd like to eat your lover's heart?"

"Gracious goodness, no," said Marie; "why, Annot, where did you get such a horrid idea as that?"

"Ah! Mademoiselle, your lover's one in a hundred! So handsome, so noble, so good, so grand,
so amiable, so everything that a young lady could wish to dream about: one, too, that never
has vagaries and jealousies, and nasty little aggravating ways. Oh! Mademoiselle, I look upon
you as the happiest young lady in the world.

"What on earth, Annot, do you know about my lover, or how on earth can you know that I have
a lover at all? Why, child, I and my cousin Agatha are both going to be nuns at St. Laurent."

"The blessed Virgin forbid it," said Annot. "Not but what Mademoiselle Agatha would look beautiful
as a nun. She has the pale face, and the long straight nose, and the calm melancholy eyes,
just as a nun ought to have; but then she should join the Carmelite ladies at the rich convent
of our Blessed Lady at St. Maxent, where they all wear beautiful white dresses and white hoods,
and have borders to their veils, and look so beautiful that there need hardly be any change
in them when they go to heaven; and not become one of those dusty-musty black sisters of mercy
at St. Laurent."

"That's your idea of a nun, is it?" said Madame de Lescure.

"I'm sure, Madame, I don't know why any girl should try to make herself look ugly, if God has
made her as beautiful as Mademoiselle Agatha."

"And you think then Mademoiselle de Lescure is not fit for a nun at all?"

"Oh, Madame, we all know she is going to be married immediately to the finest, handsomest,
most noble young nobleman in all Poitou. Oh! I'd give all the world to have such a lover as
M. Henri just for ten minutes, to see him once kneeling at my feet."

"For ten minutes," said Marie. "What good would that do you? that would only make you unhappy
when the ten minutes were gone and past."

"Besides, what would you say to him in that short time?" said Madame de Lescure.

"Say to him! I don't know what I'd say to him. I don't think I'd say one word, but I'd give
him such a look, so full of affection and gratitude, and admiration, and--and--and downright
real true love; that, if he had any heart in him at all, I don't think he'd be so base as to
go away from me when the ten minutes were over."

"That's what you call borrowing a lover for ten minutes, is it?" said Marie; "and if, as you
say, this young gentleman is my property, what am I to do for a lover the while?"

"I was only wishing, Mademoiselle, and you know there's no harm in wishing. Besides, the finest
lady in the world couldn't rob you of your lover, let alone a poor girl like me. He is so true,
and so noble, and so good."

"And have not you a lover of your own, Annot?"

"Oh, indeed I have, and a very good one. For all my talking in that way, I was never badly
off for lovers, and now I've chosen one for good and all; and I love him dearly, Madame; dote
on him, and so does he on me, but for all that there was a time when I really would have eaten
his heart, if I could have got at it."

"But that was before you had accepted each other."

"Not at all, Mademoiselle; not long since. I loved then as dearly as I do now, but he let me
walk home by myself three long leagues without speaking a word to me, and all because I said
that a man in a picture had fine whiskers."

"A man in a picture! why this lover of yours must be a very jealous man, or else he must be
very badly off for whiskers himself?"

"No he's not, Mademoiselle; he's as nice a pair as you'd wish to see; that is, begging your
pardon, as nice a pair as I'd wish to see; and he's not a jealous man either about other things."

"And when do you mean to marry him, Annot?"

"Oh, Mademoiselle, we are only waiting for you."

"Waiting for me, child! What on earth do you mean? who told you I was going to be married at all?"

It was no wonder that Marie should be astonished at finding her wedding so confidently spoken
of by a stranger in Echanbroignes, considering that it was not yet twenty-four hours since
Henri had declared his love for her at Clisson.

"But you are going to be married to M. Henri, are you not, Mademoiselle?"

"Who told you all this? how is it you come to know so much about this young lady and M. Henri?"
said Madame de Lescure.

"Why, Jacques Chapeau told me. My own husband, that is, as is to be."

"Oh! that explains the mystery," said Marie; "and so Chapeau is your lover is he? Chapeau is
the man who couldn't bear the mention of the fine pair of whiskers you saw in the picture?
and did he tell you that his master was going to be married immediately?" and Marie blushed
as she asked the question.

"Indeed he did, Mademoiselle, and he said besides--"

"Well, what did he say besides?"

"Why, I hardly like to say now, Mademoiselle; it will look like asking a favour when I thought
you could not well refuse it; and perhaps Jacques was wrong to say anything at all about it."

Marie, however, was not long in inducing Annot to reveal to her Chapeau's little plan of taking
his own wife over to Durbelliere to wait upon his master's wife, and she, moreover, promised
that, as far as she herself was concerned, she would consent to the arrangement, if, which
she expressly inserted, she should ever marry M. Larochejaquelin.

"But an't you engaged to him, Mademoiselle?"

"Well, Annot," answered she, "as you have told me so much, I don't mind telling you that I
am. But it will be long, probably, before I am married, if ever I am. Men have other things
to think of now than marriage, and, alas! women too. We must wait till the wars are over, Annot."

"But I thought the wars were over now, Mademoiselle. Haven't they got that Santerre prisoner
up at Durbelliere?"

"There's much, very much, I fear to do yet, and to suffer, before the wars will be really over,"
said Madame de Lescure. "Heaven help us, and guide us, and protect us! Come, Marie, let us
go to rest, for I trust Charles will send for us early in the morning."

Annot gave such assistance to her two guests as they required, and was within her power, and
then seating herself in her father's large arm chair in the kitchen, pondered over the misery
of living in times when men were so busy fighting with their enemies, that they had not even
leisure to get married.

"And what, after all, is the use of these wars?" said she to herself "What do they get by taking
so many towns, and getting so many guns, and killing so many men? I don't know who's the better
for it, but I know very well who's the worse. Why can't they let the blues alone; and the blues
let them alone? I worked my poor fingers to the bone making a white flag before they went to
Saumur, and all they did was to leave it in the streets of Nantes. There's not so much as a
bottle of beer, and hardly a bushel of flour left in Echanbroignes. There's the poor dear lovely
Cathelineau dead and gone. There's M. Henri engaged to the girl of his heart, and he can't
so much as stay a day from fighting to get himself married; and there's Jacques just as bad.
If Jacques cares a bit for me, he must take himself off, and me with him, to some place where
there's not quite so much fighting, or else I'll be quit of him and go without him. I've no
idea of living in a place where girls are not, to be married till the wars are over. Wars,
wars, wars; I'm sick of the wars with all my heart."

CHAPTER XII

SENTENCE OF DEATH.

After parting with their companion, de Lescure and Henri were not long in reaching Durbelliere;
and on the road thither they also learnt that Santerre, and upwards of a hundred blue horsemen,
were prisoners in the chateau, or in the barns, out-houses, or stables belonging to it; and
that the whole place was crowded with peasants, guarding their captives. As they entered the
chateau gates, they met Chapeau, who was at the bottom of the steps, waiting for them; and
Henri immediately asked after his father.

"Monseigneur is much fatigued," said Chapeau, "but apparently well; he is, however, still in bed."

"And my sister?" said Henri.

"Mademoiselle has of course been much fatigued, but she is well; she is with your father, M.
Henri."

"And tell me, Chapeau, is it true, is it really true that M. Denot brought the blues here,
and that since he has been here he has treated my sister in the manner they describe?"

"It is true as gospel, M. Henri. I knew that this would be the worst of the whole affair to
you. I knew you would sooner the chateau should have been burnt than have heard this. We are
only waiting for you and M. de Lescure, to hang him as a traitor from the big chestnut out
on the road- side. You might have seen as you came in, that they have the ropes and everything
ready."

Henri shuddered as he followed his cousin into the house. The steps were crowded with his own
followers, who warmly welcomed him, and congratulated him on the safety of his father, his
sister, and his property; but he said very little to them; he was thinking of the friend whom
he had loved so well, who had so vilely disgraced himself, and whose life he now feared he
should be unable to save.

"Where is he?" said he to Chapeau.

"Who--Monseigneur?"

"No--M. Denot."

"He is in the great salon, with Santerre, and Father Jerome, and the Chevalier, and three or
four of the lads from Echanbroignes."

"Charles," said he, as he reached the door of the salon, "do you go in. You are better able
to say what should be said, and to do what must be done, than I am. I will go up to my father.
But, Charles," and he spoke into his ear, so that no one else should hear him, "save his life--for
my sake, save his life. He is mad, and does not know what he has been doing." De Lescure pressed
his cousin's hand, and as Henri ran up stairs to his father, he entered the room, where the
party abovementioned were sitting.

The occupants of the room certainly formed a very remarkable group. The first person whom de
Lescure saw was Adolphe Denot; he was seated in a large arm-chair, placed against the wall
immediately opposite the door, and between the stove and the folding-doors which opened into
the other room. His legs were stretched out to their full length before him his hands were
clasped together between his legs; his head was bent down, so that his chin rested on his breast;
he was scowling awfully, his eyebrows nearly met above his eyes, and he continued constantly
curling and twisting his lips, sometimes shewing his teeth, and sometimes completely covering
his under with his upper lip. He had sat twelve hours, since Agatha had left the room in the
morning, without speaking a word, or once changing his position. He had refused food when it
had been brought to him, with an indignant shake of the head; and when Santerre had once half
jocularly told him to keep up his spirits, and prove himself a man, he had uttered a horrible
sound, which he had meant for a laugh of derision, such as is sometimes heard to proceed from
dark-haired, diabolical, provincial tragedians.

There were three men from Echanbroignes in the room, distinguished by the notable red scarf,
acting as guards, to prevent the escape of the prisoners; but as the two objects of their care
during the whole day had made no attempt at escaping, the guards had by degrees laid aside
the eager watchfulness with which they had at first expressed their readiness to pounce upon
their captives, should they by any motion have betrayed an intention to leave their seats,
and were now resting on three chairs in a row, each man having his musket between his legs,
and looking as though they were peculiarly tired of their long inactive services. Santerre
and Father Jerome were seated together on a sofa, and the Chevalier occupied a chair on the
other side of a table on which the prisoner and the priest were leaning. When Santerre found
that he and his men were in the hands of the royalist peasants, he at first rather lost both
his temper and his presence of mind. He saw at once that resistance was out of the question,
and that there was very little chance that he would be able to escape; he began to accuse himself
of rashness in having accepted from the Convention the very disagreeable commission which had
brought him into his present plight, and to wish that he was once more among his legitimate
adherents in the Quartier St. Antoine. He soon, however, regained his equanimity. Those whom
he had in his rough manner treated well, returned the compliment; and he perceived that, though
he would probably be kept a prisoner, his life would not be in danger, and that the royalists
were not inclined to treat him either with insult or severity.

He by degrees got into conversation with the Chevalier; and before the day was over, even Father
Jerome, much as he abhorred a republican, and especially a leader of republicans, and an infidel,
as he presumed Santerre to be, forgot his disgust, and chatted freely with the captive Commissioner.
The three dined together in the afternoon, and when de Lescure entered the room, wine and glasses
were still on the table. A crowd of the royalist peasants followed de Lescure to the door of
the salon, and would have entered it with him, had not Chapeau, with much difficulty, restrained
them. They were most anxious to hear sentence pronounced on the traitor, who had betrayed their
cause, and insulted the sister of their favourite leader; and could not understand why the
punishment, which he had so richly merited, should be delayed. All that Chapeau and Father
Jerome had ventured to ask of them was to wait till Henri himself should arrive; and now, that
he had come, they conceived that judgment should at once be passed, and sentence of death immediately
executed.

When de Lescure entered the room, they all, except Denot, rose from their chairs; the three
guards stood up, and shouldered their muskets, the Chevalier ran up to him to shake hands with
him, and Father Jerome also came out into the middle of the room to meet him. He looked first
at Denot, who kept his eyes steadily fixed on the ground; and then at Santerre, whom he had
never, to his knowledge, seen before. Santerre, however, knew him, for he immediately called
him by his name.

"My soldiers have met with a reverse, General de Lescure," said he, "which has thrown me and
them into the power of your friends. I take the earliest opportunity of thanking you for the
kind treatment we have received."

"If, at some future time, when our soldiers may be in your power, you will remember it; the
Marquis de Larochejaquelin will feel himself amply repaid for such attention as he has been
able to shew you," said de Lescure.

"You know we were in General Santerre's power last night," said the Chevalier; "and he could
have shot us all had he pleased it; indeed we all expected it, when the blues came upon us."

"They shall not find that we will be less merciful, Arthur," said de Lescure. "General Santerre
knows that the Vendean royalists have never disgraced themselves by shedding the blood of the
prisoners whom the chance of war may have thrown into their hands. He knows that they can be
brave without being cruel. I grieve to say that the republicans have hitherto not often allowed
us to repay mercy with mercy. We shall now be glad to take advantage of the opportunity of
doing so."

"What will you do with him, M. de Lescure," said Father Jerome in a whisper, pointing to Denot.
"I never before saw the people greedy for blood; but now they declare that no mercy should
be shown to a traitor."

"We must teach them, Father Jerome, that it is God's will that those who wish to be pardoned
themselves must pardon others. You have taught them lessons more difficult to learn than this;
and I do not doubt that in this, as in other things, they will obey their priest." And as he
spoke de Lescure laid his hand on the Cure's shoulder.

"You won't hang him then?" whispered the Chevalier.

"You wouldn't have me do so, would you, Arthur?"

"Who--I?" said the boy. "No--that is, I don't know. I wouldn't like to have to say that anybody
should be hung; but if anybody ever did deserve it, he does."

"And you, Father Jerome?" said de Lescure, "you agree with me? You would not have us sully
our pure cause with a cold-blooded execution?"

The three were now standing at an open window, looking into the garden. Their backs were turned
to Santerre and Denot, and they were speaking in low whispers; but nevertheless Denot either
guessed or overheard that he was the subject of their conversation. The priest did not immediately
answer de Lescure's appeal. In his heart he thought that the circumstances not only justified,
but demanded the traitor's death; but, remembering his profession, and the lessons of mercy
it was his chief business to teach, he hesitated to be the first to say that he thought the
young man should be doomed.

"Well, Father Jerome," said de Lescure, looking into the priest's face, "surely you have no
difficulty in answering me?"

The Cure was saved the necessity of answering the appeal; for while he was still balancing
between what he thought to be his duty, and that which was certainly his inclination, Denot
himself interrupted the whisperers.

"M. de Lescure," said he, in the deep, hoarse, would-be solemn voice, which he now always affected
to use. De Lescure turned quickly round, and so did his companions. The words of a man who
thinks that he is almost immediately about to die are always interesting.

"If you are talking about me," said the unfortunate wretch, "pray spare yourself the trouble.
I neither ask, nor wish for any mercy at your hands. I am ready to die."

As de Lescure looked at him, and observed the alteration which a few weeks had made in his
appearance--his sunken, sallow cheeks; his wild and bloodshot eyes; his ragged, uncombed hair,
and soiled garments--as he thought of his own recent intimacy with him--as he remembered how
often he had played with him as a child, and associated with him as a man--that till a few
days since he had been the bosom friend of his own more than brother, Henri Larochejaquelin,
the tears rushed to his eyes and down his cheeks. In that moment the scene in the council-room
at Saumur came to his mind, and he remembered that there he had rebuked Adolphe Denot for his
false ambition, and had probably been the means of driving him to the horrid crime which he
had committed. Though he knew that the traitor's iniquity admitted of no excuse, he sympathized
with the sufferings which had brought him to his present condition. He turned away his head,
as the tears rolled down his cheeks, and felt that he was unable to speak to the miserable man.

Had de Lescure upbraided him, Denot's spirit, affected and unreal as it was, would have enabled
him to endure it without flinching. He would have answered the anger of his former friend with
bombast, and might very probably have mustered courage enough to support the same character
till they led him out to death. But de Lescure's tears affected him. He felt that he was pitied;
and though his pride revolted against the commiseration of those whom he had injured, his heart
was touched, and his voice faltered, as he again declared that he desired no mercy, and that
he was ready to die.

"Ready to die!" said the Cure, "and with such a weight of sin upon your conscience; ready to
be hurried before the eternal judgment seat, without having acknowledged, even in your own
heart, the iniquity of your transgressions!"

"That, Sir, is my concern," said Denot. "I knew the dangers of the task before I undertook
it, and I can bear the penalties of failure without flinching. I fear them not, either in this
world or in any other world to come."

De Lescure, overcome with distress, paced up and down the room tifi Chapeau entered it, and
whispered to him, that the peasants outside were anxious to know what next they were to do,
and that they were clamorous for Denot's execution. "They are determined to hang him," continued
Chapeau, who had induced de Lescure to leave the room, and was now speaking to him in the hall.
"They say that you and M. Henri may do what you please about Santerre and the soldiers, but
that Adolphe Denot has betrayed the cause, insulted Mademoiselle, and proved himself unfit
to live; and that they will not leave the chateau as long as a breath of life remains in his body."

"And you, Chapeau, what did you say to them in reply?"

"Oh, M. de Lescure, of course I said that that must be as you and M. Henri pleased."

"Well, Chapeau, now go and tell them this," said de Lescure: "tell them that we will not consent
that this poor wretch shall be killed, and that his miserable life has already been granted
to him. Tell them also, that if they choose to forget their duty, their obedience, and their
oaths, and attempt to seize Denot's person, neither I nor M. Henri will ever again accompany
them to battle, and that they shall not lay a hand upon him till they have passed over our
bodies. Do you understand?"

Chapeau said that he did understand, and with a somewhat melancholy face, he returned to the
noisy crowd, who were waiting for their victim in the front of the house. "Well, Jacques,"
said one of them, an elderly man, who had for the time taken upon himself the duties of a leader
among them, and who was most loud in demanding that sentence should be passed upon Denot. "We
are ready, and the rope is ready, and the gallows is ready, and we are only waiting for the
traitor. We don't want to hurry M. Henri or M. de Lescure, but we hope they will not keep us
waiting much longer."

"You need not wait any longer," said Chapeau, "for Adolphe Denot is not to be hung at all.
M. de Lescure has pardoned him. Yes, my friends, you will be spared an unpleasant job, and
the rope and the tree will not be contaminated."

"Pardoned him--pardoned Adolphe Denot--pardoned the traitor who brought Santerre and the republicans
to Durbelliere--pardoned the wretch who so grossly insulted Mademoiselle Agatha, and nearly
killed M. le Marquis," cried one after another immediately round the door. "If we pardon him,
there will be an end of honesty and good faith. We will pardon our enemies, because M. de Lescure
asks us. We will willingly pardon this Santerre and all his men. We will pardon everything
and anybody, if M. Henri or M de Lescure asks it, except treason, and except a traitor. Go
in, Jacques, and say that we will never consent to forgive the wretch who insulted Mademoiselle
Larochejaquelin. By all that is sacred we will hang him!"

"If you do, my friends," answered Chapeau, "you must kill M. de Lescure first, for he will
defend him with his own body and his own sword."

Chapeau again returned to the house, and left the peasants outside, loudly murmuring. Hitherto
they had passively obeyed their leaders. They had gone from one scene of action to another.
They had taken towns and conquered armies, and abstained not only from slaughter, but even
from plunder, at the mere request of those whom they had selected as their own Generals; now,
for the first time they shewed a determination to disobey. The offence of which their victim
had been guilty, was in their eyes unpardonable. They were freely giving all---their little
property, their children, their blood, for their church and King. They knew that they were
themselves faithful and obedient to their leaders, and they could not bring themselves to forgive
one whom they had trusted, and who had deceived them.

Chapeau returned to the house, but he did not go back to M. de Lescure. He went upstairs to
his master, and found him alone with his sister, and explained to them what was going on before
the front-door.

"They will never go away, Mademoiselle, as long as the breath is in the man's body. They are
angry now, and they care for no one, not even for M. Henri himself; and it's no wonder for
them to be angry. He that was so trusted, and so loved; one of the family as much as yourself,
M. Henri. Why, if I were to turn traitor, and go over to the republicans, it could hardly be
worse. If ever I did, I should expect them to pinch me to pieces with hot tweezers, let alone
hanging."

"I will go down to them," said M. Henri.

"It will be no use," said Chapeau, "they will not listen to you."

"I will try them at any rate, for they have never yet disobeyed me. I know they love me, and
I will ask for Adolphe's life as a favour to myself: if they persist in their cruelty, if they
do kill him, I will lay down my sword, and never again raise it in La Vendee."

"If it were put off for a week, or a day, M. Henri, so that they could get cool; if you could
just consent to his being hung, but say that he was to have four-and-twenty hours to prepare
himself, and then at the end of that time they wouldn't care about it: mightn't that do? Wouldn't
that be the best plan, Mademoiselle?"

"No," said Henri. "I will not stoop to tell them a falsehood; nor if I did so, would they ever
believe me again." And he walked towards the passage, intending to go down to the front-door.

"Stop, Henri, stop a moment!" said Agatha, "I will go down to them. I will speak to them. They
are not accustomed to hear me speak to them in numbers, as they are to you, and that of itself
will make them inclined to listen to me. I will beg them to spare the unfortunate man, and
I think they will not refuse me."

She got up and walked to the door, and her brother did not attempt to stop her.

"Let me go alone, Henri," said she. "You may, at any rate, be sure that they will not hurt
me." And, without waiting for his reply, she descended the stairs, and walked into the hall.
When Chapeau left them, the crowd were collected immediately in the front of the house and
on the steps, but none of them had yet forced their way into the chateau; since he had gone
upstairs, however, they had pushed open the door, and now filled the hall; although their accustomed
respect for the persons and property of those above them, had still kept them from breaking
into the room, in which they knew were M. de Lescure and Adolphe Denot. The foremost of them
drew back when they saw Agatha come among them, and as she made her way to the front-door,
they retreated before her, till she found herself standing on the top of the steps, and surrounded
by what seemed to her a countless crowd of heads. There was a buzz of many voices among them,
and she stood there silent before them a moment or two, till there should be such silence as
would enable them to hear her.

