Billsbury, Tuesday, 3rd June.--We had an immense meeting here last night, just to keep the
enthusiasm going. We had done our best to got a Cabinet Minister to come down, but they all
had some excuse or other, and we had to content ourselves with CARDEW, who, being an Undersecretary,
is the next best thing to the genuine Cabinet rose. VULLIAMY came too. A most extraordinary
chap that. Instead of being offended at what I did with reference to his proposals for wholesale
illegality, he merely delivered his soul of what he called "a gentle protest," and declared
himself ready to do all he could to help me to counteract the effects of my own obstinacy.
There was considerable difficulty, as there always is, in apportioning the various speeches,
so as not to leave any of the important local chiefs out of the proceedings. First of all TOLLAND,
as Chairman, opened the proceedings. Then came a vote of confidence in Her Majesty's Government,
proposed by Colonel CHORKLE, and seconded by VULLIAMY. To this CARDEW responded.

Then MOFFAT proposed, and JERRAM seconded, a vote of confidence in me, to which, of course,
I responded. Old DICKY DIKES proposed a vote of thanks to the Chairman. This was seconded by
BLISSOP, and after a few cordial words from TOLLAND, the gathering broke up. On the whole,
everything went off extremely well. VULLIAMY'S speech was a masterpiece. He said:--

"I turn from the larger questions of public policy to the private concerns of the borough of
Billsbury. On previous occasions I have had an opportunity of saying what I think of your Candidate,
Mr. PATTLE. I have known him for years. Ever since I first met him, I have been more and more
struck by the extraordinary intelligent interest he takes in political matters. His views are
enlightened, his judgment is sound, and his eloquence is of so high an order as to ensure to
him a brilliant success in the House he is destined to adorn. But what chiefly commends him
to my regard and to yours, is the honourable uprightness of his character. The contest here
will be a fierce and determined one; but, thank heaven, with such a Candidate as yours, it
will be kept free from all personal bitterness, and will be conducted in such a way that no
breath of suspicion will rest on the absolute and scrupulous legality of everything that may
be done. The conscience of the people demands this of the candidates who may appeal to its
suffrages, and, speaking as an old man, I can only say that I rejoice to see those who are
yet young bearing themselves so honourably, and maintaining the great traditions which have
made of England the greatest and proudest nation in the world, and have advanced Billsbury
to a position of glorious prosperity which other towns strive in vain to approach."

This from VULLIAMY was splendid, considering that if I had followed his advice, I should have
steeped myself in illegality. But the cheers that greeted the speech were deafening, the most
enthusiastic coming from MOFFAT, BLISSOP, and JERRAM, who had urged my compliance with VULLIAMY'S
suggestions.

Wednesday, June 4th.--The Meteor is furious about our meeting yesterday. It says, in a leader:--"Do
these gentlemen suppose that the froth blown by them over the addle-pates who cheered their
speeches is likely to shake sir THOMAS CHUBSON from the secure position in which the affection
of the Billsbury public has enthroned him? We have nothing to say against Mr. PATTLE except
this, that his youth, combined with the ridiculous immaturity of his views, absolutely disqualifies
him for the responsible post to which his foolish ambition aspires. Let him go back to the
briefs, which the vivid imagination of his supporters pictures as crowding his table in the
Temple. Let him join debating societies, and learn how to speak in public; let him eat, drink,
and be merry in London; let him, in fact, do anything except run the head which flattery has
turned against the sturdy stone of Billsbury Liberalism. We give him this advice in no unfriendly
spirit. Let him be wise in time, and take it."

The Guardian is of course jubilant. "Never," it says, "has it been our lot to hear the magnificent
principles of our cause expounded with an eloquence so convincing. Mr. CARDEW spoke, as he
always does, with that sturdy good sense which has not only made him a redoubtable foe in the
House of Commons, but has endeared his name to the masses of the English people. Mr. VULLIAMY
again showed himself a master of the great questions of finance, and held his audience enthralled
while he contrasted the futile extravagance of Liberal Governments with the wise, but generous
economies, established by those who now hold the reins of Government. Our popular and eloquent
young Candidate, Mr. PATTLE, showed himself not unworthy to take his place side by side with
the two great men we have mentioned upon the Government benches. Rarely has any meeting displayed
greater enthusiasm and unanimity. Our wretched opponents may well hide their diminished heads.
Another nail has been struck into the coffin of the CHUBSONS, and the rest of the gang whom
the unfortunate apathy of the Conservatives, at the last election, permitted to rise to high
places in Billsbury politics. They have earned their doom. Sic semper tyrannis!"

There's a curious paragraph in a little weekly sort of Society rag published in Billsbury.
It says:--"Mr. PATTLE has prolonged his stay in Billsbury for some time. Can it all be politics?
I say nothing. But others have been heard to whisper nothings which are sweet. What price bonnets?"
I suppose the idiot means to hint that there's something between me and Miss PENFOLD? Hope
MARY won't hear of this rubbish.

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN TYPES.

(By Mr. Punch's Own Type Writer.)

NO. XXVI.--THE LADY SHOPKEEPER.

Ladies who, in order to correct the inequalities of fortune, or to counteract a spendthrift
husband, have betaken themselves to the keeping of shops, form a large and rapidly-increasing
body. In times so ancient as to be scarcely within the memory of a juvenile dowager, it was
held by the high dry exponents of aristocratic privilege that to touch trade, even when it
proffered a bag of money in a well-gloved hand, was to be defiled beyond the restoring power
of a Belgravian Duchess. To be sure, even the highest and the driest of these censors contrived
to close an indulgent eye when a moneyless scion of nobility sought to prop his tottering house
by rebuilding it upon a commercial foundation, and cementing it with the dower of a "tradesman's"
daughter. But if these blameless ones, whose exclusive dust has long since been consigned to
family vaults with appropriate inscriptions, could have foreseen the dreadful inroads of the
trading spirit, if in a moment of prophetic rapture they could have watched the painful decay
of caste which permits a lady to dabble in bonnets, to toy with the making of fancy frames,
to cut dresses almost like a dressmaker, and, horror of horrors, to send in bills to her customers,
surely they would have refrained from the tomb in order to stem the tide of advancing demoralisation.
But they are dead, and we who remain are left to deal as best we may with the uncompromising
spirit of the age.

It is absolutely essential to the proper production of a Lady Shopkeeper that she should have
been at one time both affluent and socially distinguished. If to these qualities she can add
the supreme advantage of good looks and a modest demeanour, her career is certain to be a prosperous
and a rapid one. If, finally, she has been mated to a husband who, having long ago spent his
own cash, contrives in a short time to run a best on record through hers, if he is a good fellow
of a sort, with a capacity for making friends which is as large as his generosity in staking
money, she may be sure that no element will be wanting to her success. It is of course unnecessary
that she should have served any apprenticeship to the trade that she ultimately adopts. When,
after some glittering seasons of horses and footmen and brilliant parties, the crash comes
upon the little household, her friends will be called into council. Some will recommend a retired
life in a distant suburb, where it is currently reported that £250 a year may be made to play
the part of £2,000 in the heart of May Fair. Others will hint that governesses have been known,
after years of painful labour, to lay by a sufficiency for a short old age; others, again,
will dive into the storehouse of their reminiscences, in order to produce for inspection the
well-known example of a colonel and his wife, who defied both the fates and the rheumatism
in the modest pension of a Continental watering-place. All these suggestions, however, are
eventually put aside in favour of the advice that a shop should be started, a nom de commerce
adopted, and a circle of friendly customers be acquired by discreet advertisement. After these
matters have been decided, but not till then, it becomes necessary to determine to what special
branch the talents of the prospective Shopkeeper are to be devoted. At last even this is accomplished,
and in a few months more the world of fashion may learn by private circular or public paragraph,
that a new competitor for its favours has been launched into commercial activity under a sweetly
symbolical name.

After this everything depends upon the Lady herself. At first everything will go swimmingly.
Friends will rally round her, and she may perhaps discover with a touching surprise that the
staunchest and truest are those of whom, in her days of brilliant prosperity, she thought the
least. But a succès d'estime is soon exhausted. Unless she conducts her business on purely
business lines, delivers her goods when they are wanted, and, for her own protection, sends
in her accounts as they fall due, and looks carefully after their payment, her customers and
her profits will fall away. But if she attends strictly to business herself, or engages a good
business woman to assist her, and orders her affairs in accordance with the dictates of a proper
self-interest, she is almost certain to do well, and to reap the reward of those who face the
world without flinching, and fight the battle of life sturdily and with an honest purpose.
Some painful moments may fall to her lot. It may be that in a crowded assemblage of wealth
and fashion she may see one of her masterpieces in the dress-making art, torn into shreds under
the clumsy heel of a Cabinet Minister, or a Duchess may speak unkindly in her hearing of her
latest devices in floral decoration. Or, some brainless nincompoop may, in his ignorance of
her profession, cast aspersions on the general character and behaviour of all who keep shops.
And it may be that friends, after a prolonged period of non-payment, will desert her, and speak
ill of her business. But she will be able to console herself for those and similar bitternesses
by the knowledge that on the whole the world honours those who battle against ill-fortune without
complaint far above the needy crowd of spongers who strive to batten without effort on the
crumbs that fall from the tables of the rich.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT ON THE HEMPERER'S VISIT TO THE CITY.

Well, we are jest a going for to have a fine time of it in the old Citty, we are! On the werry
tenth of next month, which this year happens for to be Jewly, we are a going for to receive
to Lunshon, quite in a frendly way, the Hemperer and the Hempress of all GERMANY, not forgitting
Hellygoland which we so kindly guv 'em larst year, and, in addishun, about twenty other princes
and princesses from differing forren parts, as has all agreed for to cum at the same time to
do 'em honour, and as if that wasn't quite enuff for one day, the noble Prince of WHALES, and
the butiful Princess of WHALES, and all the Royal Family, will be werry much "hall there" for
to receeve 'em and shew 'em praps the luvlyest site in Urope, wiz., the butiful Gildhall made
into a bower of roses, and covered with reel dammarsk tablecloths from top to bottom, and them
all covered with such a fairy-like Lunshon as makes my pore old mouth water ony jest to think
upon! There's one thing as I'm afraid as His Himperial Madjesty will be werry angry at, and
that is, as they ain't a going for to make him free of the Citty, which is one of them grate
honners as all the celibryties of the World pines for. BROWN says it ain't commy fo, as the
French says, but BROWN don't know everythink, tho' he is a trying his werry best to learn a
few German words in case the Hemperer asks him for sumthink to eat, such as a little sour krowt.
The best of the fun is that he acshally spells sour, sauer! I ain't not a pertickler good speller
myself, but I reely shoud be artily ashamed of sich a blunder as that.

The pore Committee, as has to see to hewerythink, begins for to look jest a little pail and
worryed--and who can wunder at it, for I'm told as they is amost torn to peaces with applications
for Tickets, tho they ony has two a-peace for their friends, and won't have one for theirselves,
but will have to walk about all the time of the Lunch, with their long sticks of office, to
see as ewerybody xcept theirselves is nice and cumferal, and got plenty to eat and drink. And,
torking of drink, jest reminds me of the tasting Committee, pore fellers! who has got for to
go to all the werry best Wine sellers in the Citty, to taste all their werry best wines, and
decide which, of every kind and description, they shall select for their himperial royal gests.
Why it's amost enuff to give 'em all hedakes for the rest of their nateral lives.

I don't know of any further arrangements as is quite finally settled, so praps I may have jest
a few lines to add nex week.

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.--A FIRST READING.--Would some person kindly inform me of a good Recitation for
a Smoking Concert? I have been asked to recite "something telling" after the annual banquet
of a Club of local Licensed Victuallers. I am thinking of the First Book of Paradise Lost.
Or would parts of The Excursion be more likely to create a furore? I have never recited in
public before, and feel rather doubtful of my ability to "hold" the Victuallers.--WILLING TO
OBLIGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE DILEMMA."

(An old Irish Story newly applied.)

    ["On which horn of the dilemma will the Gladstonians elect
    to stand?"--Mr. Chamberlain, in his controversy with Sir
    W. Harcourt on the place of Home Rule in the Gladstonian
    programme.]

Faithful Unionist Sentry, loquitur:--

  Faith! yes, a dilemma, no doubt, is the thing
    To stagger Big Bounce, in a fashion Socratic.
  I fancy I know now to plant a sharp sting,
    The success of my bayonet-play is emphatic.
  Remember a picture I once chanced to see,
    A Pompeian sentinel posed at a portal,
  And "faithful to death" though fire threatened. That's Me!
    As my country's defender, my fame is immortal.

  Yes, the Sentinel's rôle suits my style passing well;
    The enemy won't find me napping or nodding.
  But what I most like as I do sentry spell,
    Is the fine opportunity offered for--prodding!
  I watch like a lynx, as a sentry should do,
    With an eye like a hawk, and a smile sweet as syrup;
  But when there's a chance for 'a thrust--whirraroo!
    My bayonet-point is agog for a stir up!
  JOE, the Sentry, you know, like Joe Bagstock, is sly,
    Ay, "devilish sly,"--if I may speak profanely.
  That swashbuckler H-RC-RT now, swaggering there--why,
    The big burly Bobadil's acting insanely.
  I do like to draw him. These ramparts are mine,
    But because we're old comrades he cheeks me. "Woa, EMMA!"
  As cads used to shout. I extremely incline
    To tickle him up with--a two-horned Dilemma!

  "Well, WILLIAM, what cheer?" He is struggling out there
    With a--Snark; 'tis a Boojum which shortly may vanish.
  Like Frankenstein's, his is a Monster, I fear,
    He would--did he dare--be delighted to banish.
  That big "Home-Rule" Bogey, my Bobadil, seems
    A "handful" with which you are destined to struggle,
  Which darkens your days as it haunts all your dreams;
    Which you cannot get rid of by force or by juggle.

  You've got him, you say? Well, then, bring him along!
    Ha! ha! Says "he can't!" That's exceedingly funny!
  It is very hard when your "captive"'s so strong,
    He won't do your bidding for love or for money.
  Like SAMSON he leads his DELILAH a dance.
    Like PAT'S prisoner--all know the old Irish story--
  He won't give his captor a ghost of a chance.
    Such "prisoners" do mar their conqueror's glory.

  "Well, leave him behind, then, and come on alone!"--
    Eh! "Captive won't let you?" That's just what I told you!
  Your trophy, "Home Rule," has an incubus grown;
    He's got you, my friend, and, my faith, he will hold you.
  'Tis PADDY'S Dilemma all over again,
    Only you're the true PAT. You can't take it or leave it.
  Your triumph was futile, your struggles are vain;
    Mine's the Sentinel's eye, and you cannot deceive it.

[Left chortling, but still "on duty."

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE"-- SUCCESSION?

"Supply--Army Estimates."

  General FRASER--not a phraser clearly--
  Military grumbling vents sincerely;
  House won't listen, and the cruel Times
  Summarised his tale of woes and crimes,
  As--great CÆSAR!--"a few observations."
  TANNER, always great on such occasions,
  Intimates that it is his impression
  Soldiers are "succeeding in succession"
  In the interest of more Expense.
  Well, "economists" make stir immense,
  But in spite of most Draconic manner,
  Hardly ever seem to save--a "tanner."
  So that one is prone to think indeed,
  In succession they do not--"succeed!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A LEGGE UP."--The new Bishop of LICHFIELD.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VOCES POPULI.

DILATORY DINNERS.

SCENE--The Grounds of a certain Exhibition. On this particular evening, there has been a slight
hitch in the culinary arrangements, and the relations between the Chef and the Waiters are
apparently strained. Enter an Egotistic Amphitryon, followed by a meek and youthful Guest.

The Egotistic Amphitryon (concluding an harangue). Well, all I've got to say is I've been here
half-an-hour--(with a bitter sense of the anomaly of the situation)--waiting about for You!!
(They seat themselves at one of the little tables under the verandah.) Oh, you're going to
sit that side, are you? It's all the same to me, except that there's a confounded draught here
which--well, you're young, and these things don't affect you--or oughtn't to. (They exchange
sides.) We shall have to hurry our dinner now, if we mean to hear anything of the music. That
was the reason I expressly told you seven sharp. Here, Waiter! (Waiter presents a carte, and
stands by with a proud humility.) Now, what are you going to have? (To Guest.) You don't mind?
I hate to hear a man say he doesn't care what he eats--he ought to care, he must care. What
do you say to this--"Potage Bisque d'écrivisses; Saumon Sauce Hollandaise; Brimborions de veau
farcis à l'imprévu; Ducklings and green peas; New Potatoes; Salad"? Simple and, ah, satisfying.
(To Waiter.) Let us have that as sharp as you can; do you hear?

Waiter. Quick? Yes, I dell zem. [He hurries off.

The E.A. Hang the fellow, he's forgotten the wine! (To Guest.) What will you drink?

The Guest (thinks it will look greedy if he suggests champagne). Oh--er--whatever you're going
to drink.

The E.A. Well, I'm going to have a glass of champagne myself. I want it after all this worry.
But if you prefer beer (considerately), say so. (The Guest, in a spirit of propitiation, prefers
beer.) Well, we could have managed a bottle of Pommery between us, and it's never so good to
my mind in the pints--but please yourself, of course. [The Guest feels that his moderation
has missed fire, but dares not retract; they sit in silence for some time, without anything
of importance happening, except that a strange Waiter swoops down and carries away their bread-basket.

A Meek Man (at an adjoining table, who, probably for family reasons, is entertaining his Sister-in-law,
a lady with an aquiline nose and remarkably thick eyebrows.) You know, HORATIA, I call this
sort of thing very jolly, having dinner like this in the fresh air, eh? [He rubs his hands
under the table.

Horatia (acidly). It may be so, AUGUSTUS, when we do have it. At present we have been sitting
here fifteen minutes, and had nothing but fresh air and small flies, and, as I don't pretend
to be a Chameleon myself, why-- [She fans herself vigorously.

Augustus. Well, you know, my dear, we were warned that the trout en papillotes might take some
little time. I suppose (with mild Jocularity)--it's a fashionable fish--wants to come in with
a "little head sunning over with curls," as the poet says.

Horatia. Please don't make jokes of that sort--unless you wish to destroy the little appetite
I have left!

Augustus (penitently). Never mind--I won't do it again. Here 's our Waiter at last. Now we're
all right! [The Waiter puts a dish down upon another table, and advances with the air of a
family friend who brings bad tidings.

Horatia. Will you kindly let us have that trout at once?

The Waiter (bending down to AUGUSTUS with pity and sympathy). Fery sôry to dell you, esbecially
after keebin you so long vaiting, bot (thinks how he can break it most gently) ve haf zo many
beople hier to-day, and zey haf shust dold me in ze gitchen zere is no more drout. Zis hote
vedder ze drout, he vill nod stay!

Augustus (mildly). No, of course not--well, let me see, now, what can you--?

The E.A. Here, you Kellner, come here, can't you? What the--

Waiter (to AUGUSTUS). Von minute. I gom back bresently. (To E.A.) You vant your pill, Sir, yes?

The E.A. (exploding). My bill! Confound it! I want something to eat first. When is that Bisque
coming?

Waiter. Ach, peg your bardon, ve haf peen so pusy all day. Your Bisque vill pe retty diregly.
I go to vetch him. [He goes.

Horatia. Now we're farther off from getting any food than ever! I suppose you mean to do something,
AUGUSTUS?

Augustus. Of course--certainly. I shall speak very strongly. (Bleating.) Waiter!

Horatia (with scorn). Do you imagine they will pay the least attention to a noise like a sixpenny
toy? Lot them see you insist upon being obeyed.

Augustus. I am--I mean, I will--I am very much annoyed. (Fiercely.) Wa-ai-ter!

A Stern Waiter (appearing suddenly.) You vant somsing, Sir?

Augustus (apologetically). Yes; we should--er--like something to eat--anything--so long as
you can bring it at once, if you don't mind. "We--this Lady is rather in a hurry, and we've
waited some little time already, you see.

The Waiter. Peg your bardon, zis is nod my daple. I send your Vaiter. [He vanishes.

The E.A. Scandalous! over twenty minutes we've been here! Ha! at last! (A Waiter appears with
a tureen, which he uncovers.) Here, what do you call this?

Waiter. Groûte au Bot--you order him, yes? No? I dake him away! [He whisks it away, to the
chagrin of Guest, who thought it smelt nice.

The E.A. I ordered Bisque--where is it? and I want some wine, too--a pint of Pommery '84, and
a small lager. If they're not here very soon, I'll--

The Guest (trying to make the best of things). Nothing for it but patience, I suppose.

The E.A. (with intention). I had very little of that left before I sat down, I can tell you!

A Sarcastic and Solitary Diner. Waiter, could you spare me one moment of your valuable time?
(The Waiter halts irresolutely.) It is so long since I had the pleasure of speaking to you,
that you may possibly have forgotten that about three-quarters of an hour ago I ventured to
express a preference for an Entrecôte aux pommes de terre with a half-bottle of Beaune. Could
you give me any idea how much longer those rare dainties may take in preparing, and in the
meantime enable me to support the pangs of starvation by procuring me the favour of a penny
roll, if I am not trespassing too much upon your good-nature? [The Waiter, in a state of extreme
mystification and alarm, departs to inform the Manager.

The E.A.'s Waiter (reappearing with a small plated bowl, champagne bottle and glass of lager.)
I regred fery moch to haf to dell you zat zere is only shust enough Bisque for von berson.
[He bows with well-bred concern.

The E.A. Confound it all! (To Guest.) Here, you'd better take this, now it's here. Afraid of
it, eh? Well, Bisque is apt to disagree with some people. (To Waiter.) Give it to me, and bring
this gentleman some gravy soup, or whatever else you have ready. (He busies himself with his
Bisque, while the Guest, in pure absence of mind, drinks the champagne with which the Waiter
has filled his glass.) Here, what are you doing? I didn't order lager. (Perceives the mistake.)
Oh, you've changed your mind, have you? (To Guest.) All right, of course, only it's a pity
you couldn't say so at once. (To W.) Another pint of Pommery, and take this lager stuff away.
(Exit W.; the unfortunate Guest, in attempting to pass the bottle, contrives to decant it into
his host's soup.) Hullo, what the--there--(controlling himself). You might have left me the
soup, at all events! Well--well--it's no use saying any more about it. I suppose I shall get
something to eat some day.

[General tumult from several tables; appeals to the Waiters, who lose their heads and upbraid
one another in their own tongue; HORATIA threatens bitterly to go in search of buns and lemonade
at a Refreshment Bar. Sudden and timely appearance of energetic Manager; explanations, apologies,
promises. Magic and instantaneous production of everybody's dinner. Appetite and anger appeased,
as Scene closes in.

N.B.--Mr. Punch wishes it to be understood that the above sketch is not intended as a reflection
upon any of the deservedly popular restaurants existing at present in either exhibition.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGAL AND MILITARY.--"Ancient Lights."--Retired Lancers.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MEDICINAL MUSIC.

(A Growl from a "Quiet Street.")

    ["There is a disposition just now to revive discussion upon
    a very old subject, namely the curative influence of Music in
    cases of mental and bodily disease."--Daily Telegraph.]

