DISCOVERY OF OXYGEN

PART 2

EXPERIMENTS BY

CARL WILHELM SCHEELE

(1777)

Re issue Edition:

Published for THE ALEMBIC CLUB

BY

E. & S. LIVINGSTONE LTD.

16 & 17 TEVIOT PLACE

EDINBURGH

1964

PREFACE

The portions of Scheele's "Chemical Treatise on Air and Fire" here reproduced in English are
intended to form a companion volume to No. 7 of the Club Reprints, which contains Priestley's
account of his discovery of oxygen. Not only have the claims of Scheele to the independent
discovery of this gas never been disputed, but the valuable volume of "Letters and Memoranda"
of Scheele, edited by Nordenskjöld, which was published in 1892, places it beyond doubt that
Scheele had obtained oxygen by more than one method at least as early as Priestley's first
isolation of the gas, although his printed account of the discovery only appeared about two
years after Priestley's. The evidence of this has been found in Scheele's laboratory notes,
which are still preserved in the Royal Academy of Science in Stockholm.

In his "Chemical Treatise" Scheele endeavours, at considerable length, to prove by experiments
his views as to the compound character of heat and of light. These portions of the work have
been entirely omitted from what is reproduced here. All the places where omissions have been
made are indicated.

Every care has been taken in the endeavour to make the translation a faithful reproduction
of the meaning of the original, whilst literal accuracy has been aimed at rather than literary
elegance.

L. D.

CHEMICAL TREATISE ON AIR AND FIRE.[A]

+1.+ It is the object and chief business of chemistry to skilfully separate substances into
their constituents, to discover their properties, and to compound them in different ways.

How difficult it is, however, to carry out such operations with the greatest accuracy, can
only be unknown to one who either has never undertaken this occupation, or at least has not
done so with sufficient attention.

+2.+ Hitherto chemical investigators are not agreed as to how many elements or fundamental
materials compose all substances. In fact this is one of the most difficult problems; some
indeed hold that there remains no further hope of searching out the elements of substances.
Poor comfort for those who feel their greatest pleasure in the investigation of natural things!
Far is he mistaken, who endeavours to confine chemistry, this noble science, within such narrow
bounds! Others believe that earth and phlogiston are the things from which all material nature
has derived its origin. The majority seem completely attached to the peripatetic elements.

+3.+ I must admit that I have bestowed no little trouble upon this matter in order to obtain
a clear conception of it. One may reasonably be amazed at the numerous ideas and conjectures
which authors have recorded on the subject, especially when they give a decision respecting
the fiery phenomenon; and this very matter was of the greatest importance to me. I perceived
the necessity of a knowledge of fire, because without this it is not possible to make any experiment;
and without fire and heat it is not possible to make use of the action of any solvent. I began
accordingly to put aside all explanations of fire; I undertook a multitude of experiments in
order to fathom this beautiful phenomenon as fully as possible. I soon found, however, that
one could not form any true judgment regarding the phenomena which fire presents, without a
knowledge of the air. I saw, after carrying out a series of experiments, that air really enters
into the mixture of fire, and with it forms a constituent of flame and of sparks. I learned
accordingly that a treatise like this, on fire, could not be drawn up with proper completeness
without taking the air also into consideration.

[Footnote A: Carl Wilhelm Scheele's Chemische Abhandlung von der Luft und dem Feuer. Upsala
and Leipzig, 1777.]

+4.+ Air is that fluid invisible substance which we continually breathe, which surrounds the
whole surface of the earth, is very elastic, and possesses weight. It is always filled with
an astonishing quantity of all kinds of exhalations, which are so finely subdivided in it that
they are scarcely visible even in the sun's rays. Water vapours always have the preponderance
amongst these foreign particles. The air, however, is also mixed with another elastic substance
resembling air, which differs from it in numerous properties, and is, with good reason, called
aerial acid by Professor Bergman. It owes its presence to organised bodies, destroyed by putrefaction
or combustion.

+5.+ Nothing has given philosophers more trouble for some years than just this delicate acid
or so called fixed air. Indeed it is not surprising that the conclusions which one draws from
the properties of this elastic acid are not favourable to all who are prejudiced by previously
conceived opinions. These defenders of the Paracelsian doctrine believe that the air is in
itself unalterable; and, with Hales, that it really unites with substances thereby losing its
elasticity; but that it regains its original nature as soon as it is driven out of these by
fire or fermentation. But since they see that the air so produced is endowed with properties
quite different from common air, they conclude, without experimental proofs, that this air
has united with foreign materials, and that it must be purified from these admixed foreign
particles by agitation and filtration with various liquids. I believe that there would be no
hesitation in accepting this opinion, if one could only demonstrate clearly by experiments
that a given quantity of air is capable of being completely converted into fixed or other kind
of air by the admixture of foreign materials; but since this has not been done, I hope I do
not err if I assume as many kinds of air as experiment reveals to me. For when I have collected
an elastic fluid, and observe concerning it that its expansive power is increased by heat and
diminished by cold, while it still uniformly retains its elastic fluidity, but also discover
in it properties and behaviour different from those of common air, then I consider myself justified
in believing that this is a peculiar kind of air. I say that air thus collected must retain
its elasticity even in the greatest cold, because otherwise an innumerable multitude of varieties
of air would have to be assumed, since it is very probable that all substances can be converted
by excessive heat into a vapour resembling air.

+6.+ Substances which are subjected to putrefaction or to destruction by means of fire diminish,
and at the same time consume, a part of the air; sometimes it happens that they perceptibly
increase the bulk of the air, and sometimes finally that they neither increase nor diminish
a given quantity of air; phenomena which are certainly remarkable. Conjectures can here determine
nothing with certainty, at least they can only bring small satisfaction to a chemical philosopher,
who must have his proofs in his hands. Who does not see the necessity of making experiments
in this case, in order to obtain light concerning this secret of nature?

+7. General properties of ordinary air.+

(1.) Fire must burn for a certain time in a given quantity of air. (2.) If, so far as can be
seen, this fire does not produce during combustion any fluid resembling air, then, after the
fire has gone out of itself, the quantity of air must be diminished between a third and a fourth
part. (3.) It must not unite with common water. (4.) All kinds of animals must live for a certain
time in a confined quantity of air. (5.) Seeds, as for example peas, in a given quantity of
similarly confined air, must strike roots and attain a certain height with the aid of some
water and of a moderate heat.

Consequently, when I have a fluid resembling air in its external appearance, and find that
it has not the properties mentioned, even when only one of them is wanting, I feel convinced
that it is not ordinary air.

+8. Air must be composed of elastic fluids of two kinds.+

+First Experiment.+--I dissolved one ounce of alkaline liver of sulphur in eight ounces of
water; I poured 4 ounces of this solution into an empty bottle capable of holding 24 ounces
of water, and closed it most securely with a cork; I then inverted the bottle and placed the
neck in a small vessel with water; in this position I allowed it to stand for 14 days. During
this time the solution had lost a part of its red colour and had also deposited some sulphur:
afterwards I took the bottle and held it in the same position in a larger vessel with water,
so that the mouth was under and the bottom above the water-level, and withdrew the cork under
the water; immediately water rose with violence into the bottle. I closed the bottle again,
removed it from the water, and weighed the fluid which it contained. There were 10 ounces.
After subtracting from this the 4 ounces of solution of sulphur there remain 6 ounces, consequently
it is apparent from this experiment that of 20 parts of air 6 parts have been lost in 14 days.

+9. Second Experiment.+--(a.) I repeated the preceding experiment with the same quantity of
liver of sulphur, but with this difference that I only allowed the bottle to stand a week,
tightly closed. I then found that of 20 parts of air only 4 had been lost. (b.) On another
occasion I allowed the very same bottle to stand 4 months; the solution still possessed a somewhat
dark yellow colour. But no more air had been lost than in the first experiment, that is to
say 6 parts.

+10. Third Experiment.+--I mixed 2 ounces of caustic ley, which was prepared from alkali of
tartar and unslaked lime and did not precipitate lime water, with half an ounce of the preceding
solution of sulphur which likewise did not precipitate lime water. This mixture had a yellow
colour. I poured it into the same bottle, and after this had stood 14 days, well closed, I
found the mixture entirely without colour and also without precipitate. I was enabled to conclude
that the air in this bottle had likewise diminished, from the fact that air rushed into the
bottle with a hissing sound after I had made a small hole in the cork.

+11. Fourth Experiment.+--(a.) I took 4 ounces of a solution of sulphur in lime water; I poured
this solution into a bottle and closed it tightly. After 14 days the yellow colour had disappeared,
and of 20 parts of air 4 parts had been lost. The solution contained no sulphur, but had allowed
a precipitate to fall which was chiefly gypsum. (b.) Volatile liver of sulphur likewise diminishes
the bulk of air. (c.) Sulphur, however, and volatile spirit of sulphur, undergo no alteration
in it.

+12. Fifth Experiment.+--I hung up over burning sulphur, linen rags which were dipped in a
solution of alkali of tartar. After the alkali was saturated with the volatile acid, I placed
the rags in a flask, and closed the mouth most carefully with a wet bladder. After 3 weeks
had elapsed I found the bladder strongly pressed down; I inverted the flask, held its mouth
in water, and made a hole in the bladder; thereupon water rose with violence into the flask
and filled the fourth part.

+13. Sixth Experiment.+--I collected in a bladder the nitrous air which arises on the dissolution
of the metals in nitrous acid, and after I had tied the bladder tightly I laid it in a flask
and secured the mouth very carefully with a wet bladder. The nitrous air gradually lost its
elasticity, the bladder collapsed, and became yellow as if corroded by aqua fortis. After 14
days I made a hole in the bladder tied over the flask, having previously held it, inverted,
under water; the water rose rapidly into the flask, and it remained only 2/3 empty.

+14. Seventh Experiment.+--(a.) I immersed the mouth of a flask in a vessel with oil of turpentine.
The oil rose in the flask a few lines every day. After the lapse of 14 days the fourth part
of the flask was filled with it; I allowed it to stand for 3 weeks longer, but the oil did
not rise higher. All those oils which dry in the air, and become converted into resinous substances,
possess this property. Oil of turpentine, however, and linseed oil rise up sooner if the flask
is previously rinsed out with a concentrated sharp ley. (b.) I poured 2 ounces of colourless
and transparent animal oil of Dippel into a bottle and closed it very lightly; after the expiry
of two months the oil was thick and black. I then held the bottle, inverted, under water and
drew out the cork; the bottle immediately became 1/4 filed with water.

+15. Eighth Experiment.+--(a.) I dissolved 2 ounces of vitriol of iron in 32 ounces of water,
and precipitated this solution with a caustic ley. After the precipitate had settled, I poured
away the clear fluid and put the dark green precipitate of iron so obtained, together with
the remaining water, into the before-mentioned bottle (§ 8), and closed it tightly. After 14
days (during which time I shook the bottle frequently), this green calx of iron had acquired
the colour of crocus of iron, and of 40 parts of air 12 had been lost. (b.) When iron filings
are moistened with some water and preserved for a few weeks in a well closed bottle, a portion
of the air is likewise lost. (c.) The solution of iron in vinegar has the same effect upon
air. In this case the vinegar permits the dissolved iron to fall out in the form of a yellow
crocus, and becomes completely deprived of this metal. (d.) The solution of copper prepared
in closed vessels with spirit of salt likewise diminishes air. In none of the foregoing kinds
of air can either a candle burn or the smallest spark glow.

+16.+ It is seen from these experiments that phlogiston, the simple inflammable principle,
is present in each of them. It is known that the air strongly attracts to itself the inflammable
part of substances and deprives them of it: not only this may be seen from the experiments
cited, but it is at the same time evident that on the transference of the inflammable substance
to the air a considerable part of the air is lost. But that the inflammable substance[B] alone
is the cause of this action, is plain from this, that, according to the 10th paragraph, not
the least trace of sulphur remains over, since, according to my experiments this colourless
ley contains only some vitriolated tartar. The 11th paragraph likewise shews this. But since
sulphur alone, and also the volatile spirit of sulphur, have no effect upon the air (§ 11.
c.), it is clear that the decomposition of liver of sulphur takes place according to the laws
of double affinity,--that is to say, that the alkalies and lime attract the vitriolic acid,
and the air attracts the phlogiston.

[Footnote B: "Das Brennbare."]

It may also be seen from the above experiments, that a given quantity of air can only unite
with, and at the same time saturate, a certain quantity of the inflammable substance: this
is evident from the 9th paragraph, letter b. But whether the phlogiston which was lost by the
substances was still present in the air left behind in the bottle, or whether the air which
was lost had united and fixed itself with the materials such as liver of sulphur, oils, &c.,
are questions of importance.

From the first view, it would necessarily follow that the inflammable substance possessed the
property of depriving the air of part of its elasticity, and that in consequence of this it
becomes more closely compressed by the external air. In order now to help myself out of these
uncertainties, I formed the opinion that any such air must be specifically heavier than ordinary
air, both on account of its containing phlogiston and also of its greater condensation. But
how perplexed was I when I saw that a very thin flask which was filled with this air, and most
accurately weighed, not only did not counterpoise an equal quantity of ordinary air, but was
even somewhat lighter. I then thought that the latter view might be admissible; but in that
case it would necessarily follow also that the lost air could be separated again from the materials
employed. None of the experiments cited seemed to me capable of shewing this more clearly than
that according to the 10th paragraph, because this residuum, as already mentioned, consists
of vitriolated tartar and alkali. In order therefore to see whether the lost air had been converted
into fixed air, I tried whether the latter shewed itself when some of the caustic ley was poured
into lime water; but in vain--no precipitation took place. Indeed, I tried in several ways
to obtain the lost air from this alkaline mixture, but as the results were similar to the foregoing,
in order to avoid prolixity I shall not cite these experiments. Thus much I see from the experiments
mentioned, that the air consists of two fluids, differing from each other, the one of which
does not manifest in the least the property of attracting phlogiston, while the other, which
composes between the third and the fourth part of the whole mass of the air, is peculiarly
disposed to such attraction. But where this latter kind of air has gone to after it has united
with the inflammable substance, is a question which must be decided by further experiments,
and not by conjectures.

We shall now see how the air behaves towards inflammable substances when they get into fiery
motion. We shall first consider that kind of fire which does not give out during the combustion
any fluid resembling air.

+17. First Experiment.+--I placed 9 grains of phosphorus from urine in a thin flask, which
was capable of holding 30 ounces of water, and closed its mouth very tightly. I then heated,
with a burning candle, the part of the flask where the phosphorus lay; the phosphorus began
to melt, and immediately afterwards took fire; the flask became filled with a white cloud,
which attached itself to the sides like white flowers; this was the dry acid of phosphorus.
After the flask had become cold again, I held it, inverted, under water and opened it; scarcely
had this been done when the external air pressed water into the flask; this water amounted
to 9 ounces.

+18. Second Experiment.+--When I placed pieces of phosphorus in the same flask and allowed
it to stand, closed, for 6 weeks, or until it no longer glowed, I found that 1/3 of the air
had been lost.

+19. Third Experiment.+--I placed 3 teaspoonfuls of iron filings in a bottle capable of holding
2 ounces of water; to this I added an ounce of water, and gradually mixed with them half an
ounce of oil of vitriol. A violent heating and fermentation took place. When the froth had
somewhat subsided, I fixed into the bottle an accurately fitting cork, through which I had
previously fixed a glass tube A (Fig. 1). I placed this bottle in a vessel filled with hot
water, B B (cold water would greatly retard the solution). I then approached a burning candle
to the orifice of the tube, whereupon the inflammable air took fire and burned with a small
yellowish-green flame. As soon as this had taken place, I took a small flask C, which was capable
of holding 20 ounces of water, and held it so deep in the water that the little flame stood
in the middle of the flask. The water at once began to rise gradually into the flask, and when
the level had reached the point D the flame went out. Immediately afterwards the water began
to sink again, and was entirely driven out of the flask. The space in the flask up to D contained
4 ounces, therefore the fifth part of the air had been lost. I poured a few ounces of lime
water into the flask in order to see whether any aerial acid had also been produced during
the combustion, but I did not find any. I made the same experiment with zinc filings, and it
proceeded in every way similarly to that just mentioned. I shall demonstrate the constituents
of this inflammable air further on; for, although it seems to follow from these experiments
that it is only phlogiston, still other experiments are contrary to this.

We shall now see the behaviour of air towards that kind of fire which gives off, during the
combustion, a fluid resembling air.

+20. Fourth Experiment.+--It is well known that the flame of a candle absorbs air; but as it
is very difficult, and, indeed, scarcely possible, to light a candle in a closed flask, the
following experiment was made in the first place:--I set a burning candle in a dish full water;
I then placed an inverted flask over this candle; at once there arose from the water large
air bubbles, which were caused by the expansion, by heat, of the air in the flask. When the
flame became somewhat smaller, the water began to rise in the flask; after it had gone out
and the flask had become cold, I found the fourth part filled with water. This experiment was
very undecisive to me, because I was not assured whether this fourth part of the air had not
been driven out by the heat of the flame; since necessarily in that case the external air resting
upon the water seeks equilibrium again after the flask has become cold, and presses the same
measure of water into the flask as of air had been previously driven out by the heat. Accordingly,
I made the following experiment:

+21. Fifth Experiment.+--(a.) I pressed upon the bottom of the dish A (Fig. 2) a tough mass,
of the thickness of two fingers, made of wax, resin, and turpentine metal together; in the
middle I fastened a thick iron wire which reached to the middle of the flask B; upon the point
of this wire C, I stuck a small wax candle, whose wick I had twisted together out of three
slender threads. I then lighted the candle, and at the same time placed over it the inverted
flask B, which I then pressed very deep into the mass. As soon as this was done, I filled the
dish with water. After the flame was extinguished and everything had become quite cold, I opened
the flask in the same position under the water, when 2 ounces of water entered; the flask held
160 ounces of water. Accordingly, there is wanting here so much air as occupies the space of
2 ounces of water. Has this air been absorbed by the inflammable substance, or has the heat
of the small flame driven it out even before I could press the flask into the tough mass? The
latter seems to have taken place in this case, as I conclude from the following:--I took a
small flask capable of holding 20 ounces of water; in this I caused a candle to burn as in
the preceding; after everything had become cold, I opened this flask likewise under water,
whereupon similarly nearly 2 ounces entered. Had the former 2 ounces measure of air been absorbed,
then there should have been only 2 drachms measure absorbed in this experiment.

(b.) I repeated the preceding experiment with the large flask in exactly the same way, except
that I employed spirit of wine in place of the candle. I fastened three iron wires, which were
of equal length and reached up to the middle of the flask, into the tough mass which was firmly
pressed on to the bottom of the dish. Upon these wires I laid a four-cornered plate of metal,
and upon this I placed a small vessel into which spirit of wine was poured. I set fire to this
and placed the flask over it. After cooling, I observed that 3 ounces measure of air had been
driven out by the heat of the flame.

(c.) Upon the same stand I placed a few small glowing coals, and allowed then go out in the
same way under the flask. I found after cooling that the heat of the coals had driven out three
and a half ounces measure of air.

The experiments seem to prove that the transference of phlogiston to the air does not always
diminish its bulk, which, however, the experiments mentioned in §§ 8.16 shew distinctly. But
the following will shew that that portion of the air which unites with the inflammable substance,
and is at the same time absorbed by it, is replaced by the newly formed aerial acid.

+22. Sixth Experiment.+--After the fire had gone out and everything had become cold in the
experiments mentioned above (§ 21. a. b. c.), I poured into each flask 6 ounces of milk of
lime (lime water which has in it more unslaked lime than the water can dissolve); I then placed
my hand firmly on the mouth of the flask and swung it several times up and down; then I held
the flask inverted under water and drew my hand a little to one side, so that a small orifice
might be made. Water immediately rose into the flask. Then I shut the mouth again very tightly
with my hand under water, and afterwards shook it several times up and down. I opened it again
under water; this operation I repeated twice more until no more water would rise into the flask,
or until no more aerial acid was present in it. I then perceived that in each experiment between
7 and 8 ounces of water rose into the flasks, consequently the nineteenth part of the air has
been lost. This was indeed something, but since in the combustion of phosphorus (§ 17) nearly
the third part of the air was lost, there must be another reason besides, why as much is not
absorbed in this case also. It is known that one part of aerial acid mixed with 10 parts of
ordinary air extinguishes fire; and there are here in addition, expanded by the heat of the
flame and surrounding the latter, the watery vapours produced by the destruction of these oily
substances. It is these two elastic fluids, separating themselves from such a flame, which
present no small hindrance to the fire which would otherwise certainly burn much longer, especially
since there is here no current of air by means of which they can be driven away from the flame.
When the aerial acid is separated from this air by milk of lime, then a candle can burn in
it again, although only for a very short time.

+23. Seventh Experiment.+--I placed upon the stand (§ 21. b.) a small crucible which was filled
with sulphur; I set fire to it and placed the flask over it. After the sulphur was extinguished
and everything had become cold, I found that out of 160 parts of air, 2 parts were driven out
of the flask by the heat of the flame. I next poured 6 ounces of clear lime water into the
flask and dealt with it by shaking, as already explained, and observed that the sixth part
of all the air had been lost in consequence of the combustion. The lime water was not in the
least precipitated in this case, an indication that sulphur gives out no aerial acid during
its combustion, but another substance somewhat resembling air; this is the volatile acid of
sulphur, which occupies again the empty space produced by the union of the inflammable substance
with air. It is not, as may be seen, a trifling circumstance that phlogiston, whether it separates
itself from substances and enters into union with air, with or without a fiery motion, still
in every case diminishes the air so considerably in its external bulk.

+24. Experiments which prove that ordinary air, consisting of two kinds of elastic fluids,
can be compounded again after these have been separated from each other by means of phlogiston.+

I have already stated in § 16 that I was not able to find again the lost air. One might indeed
object, that the lost air still remains in the residual air which can no more unite with phlogiston;
for, since I have found that it is lighter than ordinary air, it might be believed that the
phlogiston united with this air makes it lighter, as appears to be known already from other
experiments. But since phlogiston is a substance, which always presupposes some weight, I much
doubt whether such hypothesis has any foundation....

+25.+ How often must not chemists have distilled the fuming acid of nitre from oil of vitriol
and nitre, when it is impossible that they should not have observed how this acid went over
red in the beginning, white and colourless in the middle of the distillation, but at the end
red again; and indeed so dark-red that one could not see through the receiver? It is to be
noticed here that if the heat is permitted to increase too much at the end of the distillation,
the whole mixture enters into such frothing that everything goes over into the receiver; and,
what is of the greatest importance, a kind of air goes over during this frothing which deserves
no small attention. If one takes for such distillation a very black oil of vitriol, not only
does the acid go over at the beginning of a far darker red than when one takes a white oil
of vitriol, but further, when one introduces a burning candle into the receiver after about
an ounce has gone over, this goes out immediately. On the other hand, when one places a burning
candle in the receiver filled with blood-red vapours, towards the end of the distillation when,
as has been said, the mixture froths strongly, not only will it continue to burn, but this
will take place with a much brighter light than in ordinary air. The same thing occurs when
one attaches, at the close of the distillation, a receiver which is filled with an air in which
fire will not burn, for, when this has been attached for half an hour, a candle will likewise
continue to burn in the air.

In this case there now arises in the first place the question: Are the vapours of the acid
of nitre naturally red? I beg leave to raise this question here because I believe there are
people who advance the redness of this acid as a distinguishing characteristic. The colours
of the acid of nitre are accidental. When a few ounces of fuming acid of nitre are distilled
by a very gentle heat, the yellow separates itself from it and goes into the receiver, and
the residuum in the retort becomes white and colourless like water. This acid has all the chief
properties of acid of nitre, except that the yellow colour is wanting. This I call the pure
acid of nitre; as soon, however, as it comes into contact with an inflammable substance, it
becomes more or less red. This red acid is more volatile than the pure, hence heat alone can
separate them from one another; and, for exactly the same reason, the volatile spirit must
go over first in the distillation of Glauber's spirit of nitre. When this has gone over, the
colourless acid follows; but why does the acid make its appearance again so blood-red at the
end of the distillation? Why has not this redness already been driven over at the beginning?
Where does it now obtain its phlogiston? This is the difficulty.

+26.+ I intimated in the preceding paragraph that the candle went out in the receiver at the
beginning of the distillation. The reason is to be found in the experiment which I have cited
in § 13. In this case the acid of nitre, passing over in vapours, takes to itself the inflammable
substance, whose presence is indicated by the black colour of the oil of vitriol; as soon as
this has taken place it meets with the air, which again robs the now phlogisticated acid of
its inflammable substance; by this means a part of the air contained in the receiver becomes
lost, hence the fire introduced into it must go out (§ 15).

