"Then I went to cherchay a bookie, but I couldn't find one anywheres.

"'They don't 'ave 'em 'ere,' says Nigger. 'You invests at the sheds over there--the Paree Mutual.'

"'That's an insurance company,' answers I. 'I want to put a bit on, not take out a life policy.'

"'That's the place, I tells you,' says Nigger; 'the Paree Mutual or the Total Liza. If you
don't 'urry you won't get it on before the race starts.'

"So I fights my way through the surging mob to the counter.

"'What odds for Red Liz in the five-thirty?' says I.

"'Je ne comprong pas,' says the bet merchant, and before I could say another word the crowd
swept me away. I went back to Nigger.

"'Look 'ere, Nigger,' says I indignantly, 'I don't like this way. I likes to speckerlate with
a bookie--one with a wooden leg as can't run for preference--who tells you what odds 'e's going
to give an' doesn't 'ave to work it out in vulgar fractions afterwards.'

"'You 'eart-breaking turnip!' says Nigger; 'give me the money.'

"'E came back in a few minutes with a bit o' card that looked like a pawn-ticket.

"'That's done,' he says. 'If it wins we just takes this ticket an' 'e pays out on it. An' now
let's go an' see 'em come out.'

"There wus ten starters, and four changed their minds at the post. Perishing Percy did some
neat an' effective steps that would 'ave gone better with music, an' then stopped dead to listen
for the applause. Whips nor spurs weren't allowed in the race, an' peaceful persuasion don't
go far with a mule; but about five of 'em pursued the narrow and straight path that leads to
the winning-post. A big, raw-boned animal, named Gentle Maggot, floundering along with one
foot in the franc side an' tother in the enclosure, with two other feet that couldn't be simultaneously
located, was leading, an' a chestnut named Coughdrop was a good second. Red Liz was flapping
her long ears an' coming along very genteelly in the rear. When they wus nearly level to us,
Nigger whispers to me to get the cracker ready; but me hands were trembling so with excitement
that I couldn't light it.

"'Give 'em to me, you idjut!' says Nigger, and he plunked one neatly by Red Liz's ribs. She
started, and Nigger plants another one behind 'er. Then she put 'er 'ead down and tore along
like mad. She passed three, got level with Coughdrop, passed 'er, an' thirty yards from home
was neck with Gentle Maggot. Both Jocks were whooping like mad, but just as everyone was swearing
it was going to be a dead-heat, I thumped Nigger hard on the back an' yelled out, 'We've won!'

"Spruggy 'ad jerked Red Liz's head down just at the post, an' she 'ad won by an ear!"

"Well, that was good enough, wasn't it?" said Jimmy, as Docker finished his narrative with
a mournful downward inflexion of voice.

"It would 'ave been," replied Docker; "only Nigger 'ad put the ticket in 'is mouth while 'e
lighted the cracker, an' when I thumped 'im on the back it startled 'im, an'--'e swallered it."

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF SIMLA.

IV.--MRS. HAWKSBEE.

  Hazards beset her social groove;
    Dilemmas rise--she wriggles free;
  Landslip or earthquake cannot move
    Her imperturbability.

  Where 'er she goes her presence thrills,
    And in her youthfulness there shines
  The everlasting of our hills,
    The evergreenness of our pines.

  Hung in a poise that knows no law
    The kestrels watch above the trees,
  But never was kestrel yet that saw
    The half that Mrs. Hawksbee sees.

  Rosy and smiling mid her furs
    Along the Mall her way she trips
  With subalterns whose worship stirs
    The cynic swiftness of her lips.

  When Jakko-wards her rickshaw sweeps,
    The monkeys scamper o'er the grass,
  And breathlessly each rascal peeps
    To see the Queen of mischief pass.

  Our Viceroys know the call of Fate;
    Our Generals pass nor question why;
  Councils dissolve and Staffs migrate,
    But Mrs. Hawksbee shall not die.

  J.M.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "So far from the wage-earning classes being shown the necessity for
    a revival in our industry, the Prime Minister talks nonsense about
    'removing the sceptre of unemployment.'"--Morning Paper.

This will comfort those who were afraid that it was permanently enthroned.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POET.

In a distant country, at a remote epoch, was born of humble parents a poet. "Born" advisedly,
since the poet is always born, not made. Even before he could write he composed little poems,
which he would recite aloud. The simple pleasures of the poor, among whom he grew up--intoxication,
pugilism, funeral merry-makings--furnished the themes of his verse.

Upon reaching man's estate he adopted the calling of night-watchman, an occupation which provided
him at once with a livelihood and ample opportunities for meditation. It is to this period
that the "Nocturnes" belong.

Now it happened that the poet's work reached the eye of the Prince, who, anxious to encourage
genius, appointed him to some minor place about Court and endowed it with a pension. Moreover,
to complete his happiness he gave him in marriage a beautiful and accomplished maiden, for
whom the poet had long cherished an ardent but hopeless passion. So, as by enchantment, the
course of the poet's existence was changed. He no longer waked while others slept. On the contrary
he seldom left his couch until a late hour in the morning, and when at last he rose it was
often to pass the rest of the day in a Turkish bath.

Yet in spite of altered circumstances he still remained a poet, for the poet is born, not made,
or unmade. The tenor of his poetry however was changed. Instead of the rude and vigorous subjects
which formerly engaged his lyre he would now employ his art in verse of the daintiest, to celebrate
flowers, ladies' eyebrows and similar trivialities.

This style however was not altogether to the taste of the munificent Prince. He had expected
something stronger, something more in the grand manner. So he consulted a Wise Man, an adept
in the ways of poets, one greatly in demand as a writer of biographical prefaces to poetical
reprints.

The Wise Man heard him to the end and replied as follows: "Sire, you have been ill-advised.
Who ever heard of a happy poet? Poetry and prosperity are incompatible. Instead of trying to
make your protégé joyful you should have heaped sorrow upon him. It is well known that sorrow
ennobles a man and enlarges his emotional experience. 'Poets learn in suffering what they teach
in song' sang one of them who knew.

"However it is not too late. When next he seeks your Presence, indicate to him with that tact
which is the birthright of princes that he no longer enjoys your favour. At the same time stop
his pension and allow him to taste once more the life from which your bounty removed him. Could
you contrive that he loses the affection of his wife, and that he falls into a consumption,
so much the better. In addition, if it please your Highness, I will arrange that all his work
is unfavourably noticed in the Press and that calumnies concerning his private life are circulated
in the personal paragraph columns."

"Thanks very much," said the Prince, and dismissed the Wise Man with a handsome fee.

A few days later, when the poet presented himself at Court, the monarch rose from his throne,
took a short run and kicked him in a vulnerable part. Breathless the poet was borne by lackeys
from the royal presence, wherein he never again showed himself. At the next meeting of the
Council the Prince annulled his pension by a stroke of the pen. Thus the poet was thrust back
into the cold world.

Now began a period for him of intense unhappiness. Having lost his old business connection
he could no longer obtain employment in his original vocation. He had therefore no alternative
to avert starvation but to follow the precarious calling of a cab-runner. These events, it
will be recalled, happened in a bygone age, before the motor superseded the horse. Often, after
a weary trail half across the town behind a luggage-laden Cab, only to find that the family
kept a man-servant, he would return to the cellar that was now his home, penniless and exhausted.

Long hours spent over the washtub, to eke out their scanty earnings, had rendered his wife--once
the "Fay" of the "Love Songs"--both muscular and short-tempered. On such occasions she would
lay hands on the poet and thrash him till he wept. But throughout all he remained a poet, for
the poet is born not made. Every tear in falling turned to a sonnet. His sorrows were transmuted
into poems--poems now suffused with the concentrated emotions of the human race.

Nevertheless each one as it appeared was brutally slated in the organs controlled by the literary
adviser to the Crown, and himself belittled and ridiculed. When, as luck would have it, his
wife eloped with a wrestler, a flood of melody poured from his soul which, connoisseurs have
assured us, ranks high amongst the lyrical masterpieces of the world. These verses will be
found amongst the collection known as "Swan Songs," published posthumously, for, not long after,
the poet unfortunately developed phthisis and died.

But though he was thus cut-off in early manhood his name will live for ever. It is borne by
a square in the boarding-house quarter of the capital and by a cravat which, though, alas,
no longer in the fashion, is still worn every Sunday by countless artisans.

His poems too have achieved immortality. Showily bound they make a favourite school prize and
have given entertainment to generations of cultured refined persons, who have never paused
in their reading to give a thought to the author of their enjoyment, the sagacious Prince to
whose action they owe their emotional treat. His royal Highness's reward was his own aesthetic
satisfaction. "By Heaven, this is more like," he rapturously exclaimed as he laid down the
last volume of the collected works; "this verse has got some stuff in it." And on the occasion
of his next birthday he conferred the Companionship of a Household Order upon the poet's publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lord Basil's scratching is said to be due to soreness."--Daily
    Sketch.

It frequently is.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BIRD-LORE.

I.--THE CUCKOO.

  The Cuckoo is a tell-tale,
    A mischief-making bird;
  She flies to East, she flies to West
  And whispers into every nest
    The wicked things she's heard;
  She loves to spread her naughty lies;
  She laughs about it as she flies:
  "Cuckoo," she cries, "cuckoo, cuckoo,
      It's true, it's true."

  And when the fairies catch her
    Her busy wings they dock,
  They shut her up for evermore
  (She may not go beyond the door)
    Inside a German clock;
  Inside a wooden clock she cowers
  And has to tell the proper hours--
  "Cuckoo," she cries, "cuckoo, cuckoo,
      It's true, it's true."

  R.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE SILENT SERVICE."

    "Horace ----, labourer, was charged with using insulting language.
    He was said to be training for the Navy and the case was accordingly
    dismissed."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If people would wear the same underclothing all the year round,
    and with or without the aid of a thermometer against their bedroom
    window vary their outer garments only, they would never be
    inconvenienced by changes of temperature."--Letter in Daily Paper.

And they would make an appreciable saving in their laundry bills.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

"Gurr finny," says T. Atkins, and there seems no doubt about the well-known War being over
at last. Home-keeping folk, who imagine it ended when the whistle blew at the eleventh hour
of November 11th, are wide, very wide, of the mark. We have experienced some of its direst
horrors since then. Why, at one time (and not so long ago) we were without the bare necessities
of life itself.

I have seen hardy old soldiers; banded like zebras with wound-stripes and field-service chevrons,
offering to barter a perfectly good horse for a packet of Ruby Queen cigarettes, or swap a
battery of Howitzers for a flagon of Scotch methylated. Then came the Great Downfall. Nabobs,
who for years had been purring about back areas in expensive cars, dressed up like movie-kings,
were suddenly debussed and dismantled. Brigadiers sorrowfully plucked the bâtons from off their
shoulder-straps and replaced them in their knapsacks. The waste-paper baskets brimmed with
red flannelette and gilt edging. Field officers cast down their golden crowns and crept slowly
back to their original units as substantive lieutenants.

And now all are gone, some home to England to write for The Times (Appointments Required column)
and some to watch the Rhine and see that it gets up to no irregularities, such as running the
wrong way or dry. Here, on the fringe of the old battle-grounds, only the merest handful of
us remain, deserted by the field armies, apparently forgotten by the management.

It has happened before. Bob, our Camp Commandant, swears that a battalion of his regiment,
while garrisoning some ocean isle, got mislaid for years and years, and they would have been
there to this day, chatting to the crabs and watering the palm-trees with their tears, if some
junior subaltern had not sent his birthday-book to KITCHENER with the request that the Field-Marshal
would inscribe some verses therein.

Occasionally the boom of explosions coming from the devastated areas tells us that our brave
allies the Chinese are still on deck, salvaging ammunition after their own unique fashion of
rapping shells smartly over the nose-caps with sledge-hammers to test whether they be really
duds or no.

Although a very courageous man, I do not linger in their whereabouts unless I have to. I don't
follow their line of thought. One of them unearthed a MILLS bomb the other day. It gave off
blue smoke and fizzed prettily. When last seen he was holding it to the ear of a chum, who
was smiling entrancedly, as a child smiles at the croon of a conch-shell.

By the way, whilst we are on the subject, who is this MILLS? The illustrated papers have shown
us THE MAN WHO WON THE WAR, the thousand-and-one sole and only inventors of Tinribs the Tank;
their prattle-pages are crammed daily with portraits of war-worn flag-sellers, heroic O.B.E.'s,
and so on; but what of our other benefactors, the names of whom are far more familiar to the
average Atkins than are those of the Twelve Apostles or his own Generals? I confess, to a great
desire to behold the features of Mr. MILLS, the bombster (I picture him a benevolent-looking
old gentleman with a flowing white beard), Mr. STOKES of the gun, Mrs. AYRTON of the gas-fan,
and Messrs. ARMSTRONG and NISSEN, the hutters. Can no enterprising picture-paper supply the want?

But to return to ourselves. With the exception of the faithful Celestial, the land is empty
of human interest. The roads that once rumbled unceasingly with wheels and swarmed with merry
men now run bare under a sad sky. The deepway side drains, in which our lorries used to play
at submarines, now harbour nothing more exciting than tadpoles. We are hard-pressed to find
mischief for our idle hands to do.

Sherlock the Sleuth keeps himself in fair fettle by prowling round the countryside and trying
to restrain the aborigines from pinching what little British material they have not already
pinched. Yesterday he came upon a fatigue party of Gauls staggering down a by-way under the
shell of an Armstrong hut. He whooped and gave chase. The Gauls, sighting the A.P.M. brassard,
promptly dumped the hut and dived through a wire fence. Sherlock hitched his horse to a post
and followed afoot, snorting fire and brimstone. They led him at a smart trot over four acres
of boggy plough, through a brambly plantation, two prickly hedges and a richly-perfumed drain
and went to ground inextricably in some mine buildings. He returned, blown, battered and baffled,
to the starting-point, to find that some third party had in the meantime removed the Armstrong
hut--also his horse.

Ronald, our only remaining Red Hat, saves his soul from boredom by keeping all the H.Q. departments
open and conducting, on his own, a brisk correspondence between them. As there are about thirty
of these and he conducts them all himself it will be understood that this entails a certain
amount of movement on his part.

Bob, the Camp Commandant, spends his time trying to square his returns and interviewing Violet.
Violet is a middle-aged gentleman who came to us from some Labour unit and refuses to leave.
He has an enormous head, a walrus moustache, a hairy nose, and feet which flap as they walk.
His métier is to keep the place tidy and the incinerator fires burning. He prowls about at
night, accompanied by a large ginger tom-cat, harpooning loose scraps of paper. Any dust he
meets he deals with on the blotting-paper principle, by rolling in it and absorbing it. When
his clothes are so stiff with dirt that they will stand up without any inside assistance from
Violet, they are sawn off him and consigned to the incinerator and he is given a new suit.
Whenever his back hair has grown so long that it is liable to impede his movements, a posse
of grooms is despatched to his lair to rope, throw and shear him with horse-clippers. Last
time they did it they swear they lost the instrument twice and that two bats and an owl flew
out of his tresses.

He is allowed out only at night, because the German prisoners laugh at him, which is bad for
his moral and good for theirs. He lives, he and his cat, deep in the chateau woods in a tiny
semi-subterranean cabin he has constructed of odds and ends of tin and tar-paper. He was supposed
to have been demobilised ages ago, but we cannot get him off the premises.

Bob goes and interviews him on the subject about three times a day--all to no avail. "'Tain't
a bit o' use you comin' an' flappin' them there paperses at me, Mister" (all officers, irrespective
of rank, are "Mister" to Violet), says he to Bob; "you know very well I aren't no scholard
an' I won't sign nothin' I can't read, even if I could sign, which I can't, bein' no scholard;
so there's the end of it, as I've told you scores of times before, with all due respect, of
course, as the sayin' is."

He doesn't want to go home and he won't go home, he says. His wife beats him "somethink crool,"
he says; in fact he never knew what real peace meant until war broke out. Furthermore she has
been putting on a lot of muscle of late and demobilisation means certain death. He is going
to stay where he is. What with the ginger cat's poaching proclivities and the bully beef he
has buried in the plantation he can hold out almost indefinitely, he says; so there is no cause
for us to be anxious on his behalf. When we come back for the next war we shall find him on
the old stand, ready to resume business, he says, and for his part the next war can't break
out any too soon.

The remainder of Bob's time, as I said before, is occupied in trying to square his establishment
returns. Some time ago he discovered that he was a water-cart short. This was serious, very.
A water-cart is a large and expensive item, and as far as he could see it would end in his
having to make good the loss out of his own pocket, which at that moment contained ten centimes
and a corkscrew.

However he was determined he would see what a little applied cunning would do first. He locked
himself into his office and took thought. After an hour's violent mental disturbance he penned
a letter to the authorities, saying that his establishment was complete in all details, with
the exception of one water-bottle. As, however, he had come by several superfluous knives,
spoons and forks considerably exceeding the water-bottle in value, might they be taken in exchange
and the account squared? The Government would be greatly the gainer thereby.

Four days later he was notified that the transaction was approved. After waiting till he was
reasonably certain that the correspondence was safely lost, burnt or consigned to impenetrable
archives, he sent the following wire:--

"Reference my R.L.217, dated April 1st, for 'bottle' read 'cart.'"

The reply came back, "Noted."

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illus: Instructress. "ALL YOU WANT NOW IS A LITTLE POLISHING."]

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR WONDERFUL WORLD.

    "Three Geese and Gander, Four Chicks and Drake; all laying."--
    Bolton Evening News

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Marston, the President [of the Policemen's Union], stated
    that the time for action will arrive after the tripe alliance at
    Southport on June 24."----Provincial Paper

An offal prospect.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The pages were in the khaki uniform of the Cadet Corps of the
    1st-5th crepe de chine, trimmed with cream lace and blue crepe
    de chine, trimmed with cream lace and blue ribbons, and carried
    directoire silver-knobbed sticks, tied with blue ribbon and pink
    roses, gifts of the bridegroom."--Mid-Devon Times.

The 1st-5th have always been famous for their dressiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARCHAEOLOGISTS; OR, THE FIGHT AGAINST REACTION.

    MY DEAR KNOTT,--It has occurred to me that since the closing of our
    little V.A.D. depôt there is a good deal of energy in Filby without
    a suitable outlet, and I am writing to you on the matter as I feel
    sure you will have some helpful suggestion to make.

    Of course a great deal of this energy might be profitably expended
    on the ever-increasing spiritual needs of the parish, but I feel
    that if some society of a secular character were got up just now it
    would be helpful, especially to the female portion of our community.

    Miss Timlin has suggested a Philatelic Society, and I shall be
    pleased to hear your views on her proposal.

    Believe me,

    Yours ever sincerely,

    THEODORE BLAND.

    DEAR VICAR,--I have your letter and quite agree as to the
    advisability of starting some society for working off the latent
    energy which has accumulated since the demise of the War and the
    consequent closing down of War activities. I do not however fancy
    Philately as a safety-valve. I suppose one could stand up to
    stick stamps in a book, and would get a certain amount of physical
    exercise in going about swapping duds and duplicates, but generally
    speaking it is a sedentary occupation and, to my mind, a selfish
    one.

    As you ask for a suggestion from me, I propose an Archaeological
    Society. The pursuit of Archaeology has this advantage: it connotes
    digging, an aptitude for which has been distinctly fostered here by
    the allotment habit.

    As for our objective, without going further than Filby there is the
    alleged tunnel leading from the ruins of the nunnery to no one
    knows where. It would be interesting to know whether the
    thirteenth-century Lord of Filby had a private way (on the score of
    feudalities) to the Ursuline convent, or whether the good nuns had a
    back-way to the Old Swan for the conveyance of mead, sack and such
    other strong waters as the times and licensing laws afforded.
    But perhaps the tunnel, like most things, is controlled, and a
    mandamus (which, I take it, is a kind of ecclesiastical coupon)
    would be required before we could touch it.

    Of course there are a mound and the foundations of an old wall in
    my paddock which the Society are welcome to tackle. Don't you think
    they would do to begin on?

    Yours sincerely,

    ARCHIBALD C. KNOTT.

    MY DEAR KNOTT,--Many thanks for your valuable help. I think you may
    expect quite a good turn up of members on Tuesday. I have always
    thought that the tumulus in your field might yield some interesting
    archaeological find. The land and a former mansion were part of the
    Convent demesne, as you probably know. I am sorry that I shall not
    be present as I have to attend the Bishop's Conference at Bray
    Chester, which is expected to last a week or two.

    Wishing you all success and with kind regards to yourself and Mrs.
    Knott,

    I am,

    Yours ever sincerely,

    THEODORE BLAND.

    MY DEAR VICAR,--Thanks for yours. I am very sorry you have been
    called away at such a time.

    The first meeting was so successful that a second was fixed for
    Wednesday. But enthusiasm seemed to flag on Wednesday evening, as
    nothing of interest had been discovered.

    A few die-hards agreed to put in some hours' digging on Thursday,
    when Colonel Stacey and Mrs. Cottingham each dug up a Roman bronze
    coin (both denarii, I fancy) from the mound. This of course acted as
    a great stimulant, and we had a bumper meeting on Friday. Stacey, I
    understand, intends to read a paper, at the first indoor meeting of
    the society, on the Roman occupation of Filby-in-the-Wold. The mound
    is now levelled, and the wall foundations have all been dug up and
    carted away; but the latter yielded nothing of interest.

    Hoping that the Conference is going as you would wish,

    I am,

    Yours sincerely,

    ARCHIBALD C. KNOTT.

    P.S.--Couldn't you touch up the Bishop on the subject of the Convent
    tube?

    DEAR VICAR,--We have had an archaeological strike. The mound is
    levelled, the wall foundations have disappeared, and so have the
    diggers. I am afraid the Society are now awaiting your return to
    give them a lead. My grounds, alas, have produced nothing beyond the
    two denarii.

    Yours sincerely,

    ARCHIBALD C. KNOTT.

    [Extract.]

    DEAR BOY,--Your mother and I are delighted that you will be demobbed
    in about a week from now.... By the way you will be glad to hear
    that we can start making that second tennis-court in the paddock as
    soon as you get back. I have had the remains of what was known as
    Knott's Folly in your great-grandfather's day removed, at a total
    cost of two denarii (which had been lying in a drawer in my
    dressing-room for years); not so bad, considering the present cost
    of labour. But of this more anon.

    Your affectionate

    FATHER.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CRICKET BARGAIN.

(Before the match.)

  We meet as foes, my James, this summer weather,
    But sterner summers saw us twain in league;
  Shoulder to shoulder have we stood together
          On Q.M.S. fatigue.

  So, when (ninth wicket down) to-day I enter
    Upon my tenure of the crease and gaze
  Nervously at you, having taken centre,
          Remember bygone days.

