The Chinese have developed their theories of prehistoric life. Speculation as to the origin
and gradual evolution of their civilization has resulted in the expression of views by authors
who may have reconstructed their systems from remnants of ancestral life revealed by excavations,
or from observation of neighbouring nations living in a state of barbarism. This may account
for a good deal of the repetition found in the Chinese mythological and legendary narratives,
the personal and chronological part of which may have been invented merely as a framework for
illustrating social and cultural progress. The scene of action of all the prehistoric figures
from P'an-ku, the first human being, down to the beginning of real history has been laid in
a part of the world which has never been anything but Chinese territory. P'an-ku's epoch, millions
of years ago, was followed by ten distinct periods of sovereigns, including the "Heavenly emperors,"
the "Terrestrial emperors," and the "Human emperors," the Yu-ch'au or "Nest-builders," and
Sui-jön, the "Fire Producer," the Prometheus of the Chinese, who borrowed fire from the stars
for the benefit of man. Several of the characteristic phases of cultural progress and social
organization have been ascribed to this mythological period. Authors of less fertile imagination
refer them to later times, when the heroes of their accounts appear in shapes somewhat resembling
human beings rather than as gods and demigods.

The Chinese themselves look upon Fu-hi as their first historical emperor; and they place his
lifetime in the years 2852-2738 B.C. Some accounts represent him as a supernatural being; and
we see him depicted as a human figure with a fish tail something like a mermaid. He is credited
with having established social order among his people, who, before him, had lived like animals
in the wilds. The social chaos out of which Chinese society arose is described as being characterized
by the absence of family life; for "children knew only their mothers and not their fathers."
Fu-hi introduced matrimony; and in so doing he placed man as the husband at the head of the
family and abolished the original matriarchate. This quite corresponds with his views on the
dualism in natural philosophy, of which he is supposed to have laid the germs by the invention
of the so-called pa-kua, eight symbols, each consisting of three parallel lines, broken or
continuous. The continuous lines represented the male element in nature; the broken ones, the
female. It is characteristic that the same ruler who assigned to man his position as the head
of the family is also credited with the invention of that natural philosophy of the "male and
female principles," according to which all good things and qualities were held to be male,
while their less sympathetic opposites were female, such as heaven and earth, sun and moon,
day and night, south and north. If these traditions really represent the oldest prehistoric
creations of the popular mind, it would almost seem that the most ancient Chinese shared that
naïve sentiment which caused our own forefathers to invent gender. The difference is that,
with us, the conception survives merely in the language, where the article or suffixes mark
gender, whereas with the Chinese, whose language does not express gender, it survives in their
system of metaphysics. For all their attempts at fathoming the secrets of nature are based
on the idea that male or female powers are inherent in all matter.

To the same Emperor Fu-hi are ascribed many of the elementary inventions which raise man from
the life of a brute to that of a social being. He taught his people to hunt, to fish, and to
keep flocks; he constructed musical instruments, and replaced a kind of knot-writing previously
in use by a system of hieroglyphics. All this cannot of course be considered as history; but
it shows that the authors of later centuries who credited Fu-hi with certain inventions were
not quite illogical in starting from the matriarchal chaos, after which he is said to have
organized society with occupations corresponding to those of a period of hunting, fishing and
herding. This period was bound to be followed by a further step towards the final development
of the nation's social condition; and we find it quite logically succeeded by a period of agricultural
life, personified in the Emperor, Shön-nung, supposed to have lived in the twenty-eighth century
B.C. His name may be freely translated as "Divine Labourer"; and to him the Chinese ascribe
the invention of agricultural implements, and the discovery of the medicinal properties of
numerous plants.

The third historical emperor was Huang-ti, the "Yellow emperor," according to the literal translation.
Ssï-ma Ts'ién, the Herodotus of the Chinese, begins his history with him; but Fu-hi and Shön-nung
are referred to in texts much older than this historian, though many details relating to their
alleged reigns have been added in later times. Huang-ti extended the boundaries of the empire,
described as being originally confined to a limited territory near the banks of the Yellow
river and the present city of Si-an-fu. Here were the sites of cities used as capitals of the
empire under various names during long periods since remote antiquity. To Huang-ti, whose reign
is said to have commenced in 2704 according to one source and in 2491 according to another,
are ascribed most of the cultural innovations which historians were not able otherwise to locate
within historical times. Under Huang-ti we find the first mention of a nation called the Hun-yü,
who occupied the north of his empire and with whom he is represented to have engaged in warfare.
The Chinese identify this name with that of the Hiung-nu, their old hereditary enemy and the
ancestors of Attila's Huns. Even though the details of these legendary accounts may deserve
little confidence, there must have been an old tradition that a nation called the Hun-yü, occupying
the northern confines of China, were the ancestors of the Hiung-nu tribes, well known in historical
times, a scion of whose great khans settled in territory belonging to the king of Sogdiana
during the first century B.C., levied tribute from his neighbours, the Alans, and with his
small but warlike horde initiated that era of migrations which led to the overrunning of Europe
with Central-Asiatic Tatars.

Fu-hi, Shön-nung and Huang-ti represent a group of rulers comprised by the Chinese under the
name of San-huang, i.e. "The Three Emperors." Although we have no reason to deny their existence,
the details recorded concerning them contain enough in the way of improbabilities to justify
us in considering them as mythical creations. The chronology, too, is apparently quite fictitious;
for the time allotted to their reigns is much too long as a term of government for a single
human life, and, on the other hand, much too short, if we measure it by the cultural progress
said to have been brought about in it. Fu-hi's period of hunting life must have lasted many
generations before it led to the agricultural period represented by the name Shön-nung; and
this period in turn could not possibly have led within a little more than one hundred years
to the enormous progress ascribed to Huang-ti. Under the latter ruler a regular board of historians
is said to have been organized with Ts'ang-kié as president, who is known also as Shi-huang,
i.e. "the Emperor of Historians," the reputed inventor of hieroglyphic writing placed by some
authors into the Fu-hi period and worshipped as Tz'ï-shön, i.e. "God of writing," to the present
day. Huang-ti is supposed to have been the first builder of temples, houses and cities; to
have regulated the calendar, to which he added the intercalary month; and to have devised means
of traffic by cars drawn by oxen and by boats to ply on the lakes and rivers of his empire.
His wife, known as "the lady of Si-ling," is credited with the invention of the several manipulations
in the rearing of silkworms and the manufacture of silk. The invention of certain flutes, combined
to form a kind of reed organ, led to a deeper study of music; and in order to construct these
instruments with the necessary accuracy a system of weights and measures had to be devised.
Huang-ti's successors, Shau-hau, Chuan-hü, and Ti-k'u, were less prominent, though each of
them had their particular merits.

  The Model Emperors.--Most of the stories regarding the "Three
  Emperors" are told in comparatively late records. The Shu-king,
  sometimes described as the "Canon of History," our oldest source of
  pre-Confucian history, supposed to have been edited by Confucius
  himself, knows nothing of Fu-hi, Shön-nung and Huang-ti; but it begins
  by extolling the virtues of the emperor Yau and his successor
  Shun. Yau and Shun are probably the most popular names in Chinese
  history as taught in China. Whatever good qualities may be imagined of
  the rulers of a great nation have been heaped upon their heads; and
  the example of their lives has at all times been held up by
  Confucianists as the height of perfection in a sovereign's character.
  Yau, whose reign has been placed by the fictitious standard chronology
  of the Chinese in the years 2357-2258, and about 200 years later by
  the less extravagant "Annals of the Bamboo Books," is represented as
  the patron of certain astronomers who had to watch the heavenly
  bodies; and much has been written about the reputed astronomical
  knowledge of the Chinese in this remote period. Names like Deguignes,
  Gaubil, Biot and Schlegel are among those of the investigators. On the
  other side are the sceptics, who maintain that later editors
  interpolated statements which could have been made only with the
  astronomical knowledge possessed by their own contemporaries.
  According to an old legend, Shun banished "the four wicked ones" to
  distant territories. One of these bore the name T'au-t'ié, i.e.
  "Glutton"; called also San-miau. T'au-t'ié is also the name of an
  ornament, very common on the surface of the most ancient bronze
  vessels, showing the distorted face of some ravenous animal. The
  San-miau as a tribe are said to have been the forefathers of the
  Tangutans, the Tibetans and the Miau-tz'ï in the south-west of China.
  This legend may be interpreted as indicating that the non-Chinese
  races in the south-west have come to their present seats by migration
  from Central China in remote antiquity. During Yau's reign a
  catastrophe reminding one of the biblical deluge threatened the
  Chinese world. The emperor held his minister of works, Kun,
  responsible for this misfortune, probably an inundation of the Yellow
  river such as has been witnessed by the present generation. Its
  horrors are described with poetical exaggeration in the Shu-king.
  When the efforts to stop the floods had proved futile for nine years,
  Yau wished to abdicate, and he selected a virtuous young man of the
  name of Shun as his successor. Among the legends told about this
  second model emperor is the story that he had a board before his
  palace on which every subject was permitted to note whatever faults he
  had to find with his government, and that by means of a drum suspended
  at his palace gate attention might be drawn to any complaint that was
  to be made to him. Since Kun had not succeeded in stopping the floods,
  he was dismissed and his son Yü was appointed in his stead. Probably
  the waters began to subside of their own accord, but Yü has been
  praised up as the national hero who, by his engineering works, saved
  his people from utter destruction. His labours in this direction are
  described in a special section of the Confucian account known as
  Yü-kung, i.e. "Tribute of Yü." Yü's merit has in the sequel been
  exaggerated so as to credit him with more than human powers. He is
  supposed to have cut canals through the hills, in order to furnish
  outlets to the floods, and to have performed feats of engineering
  compared to which, according to Von Richthofen, the construction of
  the St Gotthard tunnel without blasting materials would be child's
  play, and all this within a few years.

The Hia Dynasty.--As a reward for his services Yü was selected to succeed Shun as emperor.
He divided the empire into nine provinces, the description of which in the Yü-kung chapter
of the "Canon of History" bears a suspicious resemblance to later accounts. Yü's reign has
been assigned to the years 2205-2198, and the Hia Dynasty, of which he became the head, has
been made to extend to the overthrow in 1766 B.C. of Kié, its eighteenth and last emperor,
a cruel tyrant of the most vicious and contemptible character. Among the Hia emperors we find
Chung-k'ang (2159-2147), whose reign has attracted the attention of European scholars by the
mention of an eclipse of the sun, which his court astronomers had failed to predict. European
astronomers and sinologues have brought much acumen to bear on the problem involved in the
Shu-king account in trying to decide which of the several eclipses known to have occurred about
that time was identical with the one observed in China under Chung-k'ang.

The Shang, or Yin, Dynasty.--This period, which preceded the classical Chóu dynasty, is made
to extend from 1766 to 1122 B.C. We must now be prepared to see an energetic or virtuous ruler
at the head of a dynasty and either a cruel tyrant or a contemptible weakling at the end of
it. It seems natural that this should be so; but Chinese historians, like the writers of Roman
history, have a tendency to exaggerate both good and bad qualities. Ch'öng-tang, its first
sovereign, is represented as a model of goodness and of humane feeling towards his subjects.
Even the animal world benefited by his kindness, inasmuch as he abolished all useless torture
in the chase. His great minister I Yin, who had greatly assisted him in securing the throne,
served two of his successors. P'an-köng (1401) and Wu-ting (1324) are described as good rulers
among a somewhat indifferent set of monarchs. The Shang dynasty, like the Hia, came to an end
through the reckless vice and cruelty of a tyrant (Chóu-sin with his consort Ta-ki). China
had even in those days to maintain her position as a civilized nation by keeping at bay the
barbarous nations by which she was surrounded. Chief among these were the ancestors of the
Hiung-nu tribes, or Huns, on the northern and western boundaries. To fight them, to make pacts
and compromises with them, and to befriend them with gifts so as to keep them out of the Imperial
territories, had been the rôle of a palatinate on the western frontier, the duchy of Chóu,
while the court of China with its vicious emperor gave itself up to effeminate luxury. Chóu-sin's
evil practices had aroused the indignation of the palatine, subsequently known as Wön-wang,
who in vain remonstrated with the emperor's criminal treatment of his subjects. The strength
and integrity of Wön-wang's character had made him the corner-stone of that important epoch;
and his name is one of the best known both in history and in literature. The courage with which
he spoke his mind in rebuking his unworthy liege lord caused the emperor to imprison him, his
great popularity alone saving his life. During his incarceration, extending over three years,
he compiled the I-king, or "Canon of Changes," supposed to be the oldest book of Chinese literature,
and certainly the one most extensively studied by the nation. Wön-wang's son, known as Wu-wang,
was destined to avenge his father and the many victims of Chóu-sin's cruelty. Under his leadership
the people rose against the emperor and, with the assistance of his allies, "men of the west,"
possibly ancestors of the Huns, overthrew the Shang dynasty after a decisive battle, whereupon
Chóu-sin committed suicide by setting fire to his palace.

Chóu Dynasty.--Wu-wang, the first emperor of the new dynasty, named after his duchy of Chóu
on the western frontier, was greatly assisted in consolidating the empire by his brother, Chóu-kung,
i.e. "Duke of Chóu." As the loyal prime-minister of Wu-wang and his successor the duke of Chóu
laid the foundation of the government institutions of the dynasty, which became the prototype
of most of the characteristic features in Chinese public and social life down to recent times.
The brothers and adherents of the new sovereign were rewarded with fiefs which in the sequel
grew into as many states. China thus developed into a confederation, resembling that of the
German empire, inasmuch as a number of independent states, each having its own sovereign, were
united under one liege lord, the emperor, styled "The Son of Heaven," who as high priest of
the nation reigned in the name of Heaven. The emperor represented the nation in sacrificing
and praying to God. His relations with his vassals and government officials, and those of the
heads of the vassal states with their subjects as well as of the people among themselves were
regulated by the most rigid ceremonial. The dress to be worn, the speeches to be made, and
the postures to be assumed on all possible occasions, whether at court or in private life,
were subject to regulations. The duke of Chóu, or whoever may have been the creator of this
system, showed deep wisdom in his speculations, if he based that immutability of government
which in the sequel became a Chinese characteristic, on the physical and moral immutability
of individuals by depriving them of all spontaneous action in public and private life. Originally
and nominally the emperor's power as the ruler over his vassals, who again ruled in his name,
was unquestionable; and the first few generations of the dynasty saw no decline of the original
strength of central power. A certain loyalty based on the traditional ancestral worship counteracted
the desire to revolt. The rightful heir to the throne was responsible to his ancestors as his
subjects were to theirs. "We have to do as our ancestors did," the people argued; "and since
they obeyed the ancestors of our present sovereign, we have to be loyal to him." Interference
with this time-honoured belief would have amounted to a rupture, as it were, in the nation's
religious relations, and as long as the people looked upon the emperor as the Son of Heaven,
his moral power would outweigh strong armies sent against him in rebellion. The time came soon
enough when central power depended merely on this spontaneous loyalty.

Not all the successors of Wu-wang profited by the lessons given them by past history. Incapacity,
excessive severity and undue weakness had created discontent and loosened the relations between
the emperor and his vassals. Increase in the extent of the empire greatly added to this decline
of central power. For the emperor's own dominion was centrally situated and surrounded by the
several confederate states; its geographical position prevented it from participating in the
general aggrandisement of China, and increase in territory, population and prestige had become
the privilege of boundary states. Tatar tribes in the north and west and the aboriginal Man
barbarians in the south were forced by warfare to yield land, or enticed to exchange it for
goods, or induced to mingle with their Chinese neighbours, thus producing a mixed population
combining the superior intelligence of the Chinese race with the energetic and warlike spirit
of barbarians. These may be the main reasons which gradually undermined the Imperial authority
and brought some of the confederate states to the front, so as to overshadow the authority
of the Son of Heaven himself, whose military and financial resources were inferior to those
of several of his vassals. A few out of the thirty-five sovereigns of the Chóu dynasty were
distinguished by extraordinary qualities. Mu-wang of the 10th century performed journeys far
beyond the western frontier of his empire, and was successful in warfare against the Dog Barbarians,
described as the ancestors of the Hiung-nu, or Huns. The reign of Süan-wang (827-782 B.C.)
was filled with warfare against the Tangutans and the Huns, called Hién-yün in a contemporaneous
poem of the "Book of Odes"; but the most noteworthy reign in this century is that of the lascivious
Yu-wang, the oppressiveness of whose government had caused a bard represented in the "Book
of Odes" to complain about the emperor's evil ways. The writer of this poem refers to certain
signs showing that Heaven itself is indignant at Yu-wang's crimes. One of these signs was an
eclipse of the sun which had recently occurred, the date and month being clearly stated. This
date corresponds exactly with August 29, 776 B.C.; and astronomers have calculated that on
that precise date an eclipse of the sun was visible in North China. This, of course, cannot
be a mere accident; and since the date falls into the sixth year of Yu-wang's reign, the coincidence
is bound to increase our confidence in that part of Chinese history. Our knowledge of it, however,
is due to mere chance; for the record of the eclipse would probably not have been preserved
until our days had it not been interpreted as a kind of tekel upharsin owing to the peculiarity
of the political situation. It does not follow, therefore, as some foreign critics assume,
that the historical period begins as late as Yu-wang's reign. China has no architectural witnesses
to testify to her antiquity as Egypt has in her pyramids and temple ruins; but the sacrificial
bronze vessels of the Shang and Chóu dynasties, with their characteristic ornaments and hieroglyphic
inscriptions, seem to support the historical tradition inasmuch as natural development may
be traced by the analysis of their artistic and paleographic phases. Counterfeiters, say a
thousand years later, could not have resisted the temptation to introduce patterns and hieroglyphic
shapes of later periods; and whatever bronzes have been assigned to the Shang dynasty, i.e.
some time in the second millennium B.C., exhibit the Shang characteristics. The words occurring
in their inscriptions, carefully collected, may be shown to be confined to ideas peculiar to
primitive states of cultural life, not one of them pointing to an invention we may suspect
to be of later origin. But, apart from this, it seems a matter of individual judgment how far
back beyond that indisputable year 776 B.C. a student will date the beginning of real history.

In the 7th century central authority had declined to such an extent that the emperor was merely
the nominal head of the confederation, the hegemony in the empire falling in turn to one of
the five principal states, for which reason the Chinese speak of a period of the "Five Leaders."
The state of Ts'i, corresponding to North Shan-tung, had begun to overshadow the other states
by unprecedented success in economic enterprise, due to the prudent advice of its prime minister,
the philosopher Kuan-tzï. Other states attained leadership by success in warfare. Among these
leaders we see duke Mu of T'sin (659 B.C.), a state on the western boundary which was so much
influenced by amalgamation with its Hunnic neighbours that the purely Chinese states regarded
it as a barbarian country. The emperor was in those days a mere shadow; several of his vassals
had grown strong enough to claim and be granted the title "king," and they all tried to annihilate
their neighbours by ruse in diplomacy and by force of arms, without referring to their common
ruler for arbitration, as they were in duty bound. In this bellum omnium contra omnes the state
of Ts'in, in spite of repeated reverses, remained in possession of the field.

  The period of this general struggle is spoken of by Chinese historians
  as that of "The Contending States." Like that of the "Five Leaders" it
  is full of romance; and the examples of heroism, cowardice, diplomatic
  skill and philosophical equanimity which fill the pages of its history
  have become the subject of elegant literature in prose and poetry. The
  political development of the Chóu dynasty is the exact counterpart of
  that of its spiritual life as shown in the contemporaneous literature.
  The orthodox conservative spirit which reflects the ethical views of
  the emperor and his royal partisans is represented by the name
  Confucius (551-479 B.C.). The great sage had collected old traditions
  and formulated the moral principles which had been dormant in the
  Chinese nation for centuries. His doctrines tended to support the
  maintenance of central power; so did those of other members of his
  school, especially Mencius. Filial love showed itself as obedience to
  the parents in the family and as loyalty to the emperor and his
  government in public life. It was the highest virtue, according to the
  Confucian school. The history of the nation as taught in the
  Shu-king was in its early part merely an illustration of
  Confucianist ideas about good and bad government. The perpetual advice
  to rulers was: "Be like Yau, Shun and Yü, and you will be right."
  Confucianism was dominant during the earlier centuries of the Chóu
  dynasty, whose lucky star began to wane when doctrines opposed to it
  got the upper hand. The philosophical schools built up on the
  doctrines of Lau-tzï had in the course of generations become
  antagonistic, and found favour with those who did not endorse that
  loyalty to the emperor demanded by Mencius; so had other thinkers,
  some of whom had preached morals which were bound to break up all
  social relations, like the philosopher of egotism, Yang Chu, according
  to Mencius disloyalty personified and the very reverse of his ideal,
  the duke of Chóu. The egotism recommended by Yang Chu to the
  individual had begun to be practised on a large scale by the
  contending states, their governments and sovereigns, some of whom had
  long discarded Confucian rites under the influence of Tatar
  neighbours. It appears that the anti-Confucian spirit which paved the
  way towards the final extinction of Wu-wang's dynasty received its
  chief nourishment from the Tatar element in the population of the
  northern and western boundary states. Among these Ts'in was the most
  prominent. Having placed itself in the possession of the territories
  of nearly all of the remaining states, Ts'in made war against the last
  shadow emperor, Nan-wang who had attempted to form an alliance against
  the powerful usurper, with the result that the western part of the
  Chóu dominion was lost to the aggressor.

