[131]
    Ed una donna involta in veste negra,
    Con un furor qual io non so se mai
    Al tempo de' giganti fosse a Flegra.
        Trionfo della Morte, cap. i. 31.

[132] On a scroll above these wretches is written this legend:--

    Dacchè prosperitade ci ha lasciati,
    O morte, medicina d'ogni pena,
    Deh vieni a darne omai l'ultima cena.

[133] This might be used as an argument against the Lorenzetti hypothesis; for their work at
Siena is eminently beautiful.

[134] The attitude and the eyes of this archangel have an imaginative potency beyond that of
any other motive used by any painter to suggest the terror of the Dies Irae. Simplicity and
truth of vision in the artist have here touched the very summit of intense dramatic presentation.

[135] The "Triumph of S. Thomas Aquinas," in this cloister-chapel, has long been declared the
work of Taddeo Gaddi. "The Triumph of the Church Militant," and the "Consecration of S. Dominic,"
used to be ascribed, on the faith of Vasari, to Simone Martini of Siena. Independently of its
main subject, this vast wall-painting is specially interesting on account of its portraits.
The work has a decidedly Sienese character; but recent critics are inclined to assign it to
a certain Andrea, of Florence. See Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. ii. p. 89. The same critics
doubt the hand of Taddeo Gaddi in the "Triumph of S. Thomas," vol. i. p. 374, and remark that
"these productions of the art of the fourteenth century are, indeed, second-class works, executed
by pupils of the Sienese and Florentine school, and unworthy of the high praise which has ever
been given to them." Whatever may be ultimately thought about the question of their authorship
and pictorial merit, their interest to the student of Italian painting in relation to mediaeval
thought will always remain indisputable. Few buildings in the length and breadth of Italy possess
such claims on our attention as the Cappella degli Spagnuoli.

[136] The amorous fere of the Christian faith, the holy athlete, gentle to his own, and to
his foes cruel.

[137] Everything outside this golden region is studded with stars to signify an epoyranios
topos or heaven of heavens. S. Thomas and the Greeks are inside the golden sphere of science,
and below on earth are the heresiarchs and faithful. Rosini gives a faithful outline of this
picture in his Atlas of Illustrations.

[138] "For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips."--Prov.
viii. 7.

[139] Gozzoli's picture is now in the Louvre. I think Guillaume de Saint Amour takes the place
of Averroes.

[140] Inf. iv. 144.

[141] Averroès et l'Averroïsme, pp. 236-316.

[142] In the chapel. They are the work of Taddeo di Bartolo, and bear this inscription: "Specchiatevi
in costoro, voi che reggete." The mediaeval painters of Italy learned lessons of civility and
government as willingly from classical tradition, as they deduced the lessons of piety and
godly living from the Bible. Herein they were akin to Dante, who chose Virgil for the symbol
of the human understanding and Beatrice for the symbol of divine wisdom, revealed to man in
Theology.

[143] He began his work in 1337.

[144] A similar mode of symbolising the Commune is chosen in the bas-reliefs of Archbishop
Tarlati's tomb at Arezzo, where the discord of the city is represented by an old man of gigantic
stature, throned and maltreated by the burghers, who are tearing out his hair by handfuls.
Over this figure is written "Il Comune Pelato."

[145] These were adopted as the ensign of Siena, in the Middle Ages.

[146] In the year 1336, just before Ambrogio began to paint, the Sienese Republic had concluded
a league with Florence for the maintenance of the Guelf party. The Monte de' Nove still ruled
the city with patriotic spirit and equity, and had not yet become a forceful oligarchy. The
power of the Visconti was still in its cradle; the great plague had not devastated Tuscany.
As early as 1355 the whole of the fair order represented by Ambrogio was shaken to the foundation,
and Siena deserved the words applied to it by De Commines. See Vol. L, Age of the Despots,
p. 162, note 2.

[147] Rio, perversely bent on stigmatising whatever in Italian art savours of the Renaissance,
depreciates this lovely form of Peace. L'Art Chrétien, vol. i. p. 57.

[148] See Muratori, vol. xxiii., or the passage translated by me in Vol. I., Age of the Despots,
p. 480.

[149] His "Madonna" in S. Domenico is dated 1221. For a full discussion of Guido da Siena's
date, see Crowe and Cavalcaselle, vol. i. pp. 180-185.

[150] On their coins the Sienese struck this legend: "Sena vetus Civitas Virginis." It will
be remembered how the Florentines, two centuries and a half later, dedicated their city to
Christ as king.

[151] Date of birth unknown; date of death, about 1320.

[152] He is better known as Simone Memmi, a name given to him by a mistake of Vasari's. He
was born in 1283 at Siena. He died in 1344 at Avignon. Petrarch mentions his portrait of Madonna
Laura, in the 49th and 50th sonnets of the "Rime in Vita di Madonna Laura." In another place
he uses these words about Simone: "Duos ego novi pictores egregios, nec formosos, Jottum Florentinum
civem, cujus inter modernos fama ingens est, et Simonem Senensem."--Epist. Fam. lib. v. 17,
p. 653. Petrarch proceeds to mention that he has also known sculptors, and asserts their inferiority
to painters in modern times.

[153] See above, Chapter IV, Theology and S. Dominic. Messrs. Crowe and Cavalcaselle reject,
not without reason, as it seems to me, the tradition that Simone painted the frescoes of S.
Ranieri in the Campo Santo at Pisa. See vol. ii. p. 83. What remains of his work at Pisa is
an altar-piece in S. Caterina.

[154] To Simone is also attributed the interesting portrait of Guidoriccio Fogliani de' Ricci,
on horseback, in the Sala del Consiglio. This, however, has been so much repainted as to have
lost its character.

[155] In S. Francesco at Pisa.

[156] Spinello degli Spinelli was born of a Ghibelline family, exiled from Florence, who settled
at Arezzo about 1308. He died at Arezzo in 1410, aged 92, according to some computations.

[157] South wall of the Campo Santo, on the left-hand of the entrance.

[158] In the Sala di Balia of the public palace at Siena.

[159] See Inferno, xxix. 121; the sonnets on the months by Cene dalla Chitarra, Poeti del Primo
Secolo, vol. ii. pp. 196-207; the epithet "Molles Senae," given by Beccadelli; and the remarks
of De Comines.

[160] I have not thought it necessary to distinguish between tempera and fresco. In tempera
painting the colours were mixed with egg, gum, and other vehicles dissolved in water, and laid
upon a dry ground. In fresco painting the colours, mixed only with water, were laid upon plaster
while still damp. The latter process replaced the former for wall-paintings in the fourteenth
century.

After the splendid outburst of painting in the first half of the fourteenth century, there
came a lull. The thoughts and sentiments of mediaeval Italy had been now set forth in art.
The sincere and simple style of Giotto was worked out. But the new culture of the Revival had
not as yet sufficiently penetrated the Italians for the painters to express it; nor had they
mastered the technicalities of their craft in such a manner as to render the delineation of
more complex forms of beauty possible. The years between 1400 and 1470 may be roughly marked
out as the second period of great, activity in painting. At this time sculpture, under the
hands of Ghiberti, Donatello, and Luca della Robbia, had reached a higher point than the sister
art. The debt the sculptors owed to Giotto, they now repaid in full measure to his successors,
in obedience to the law whereby sculpture, though subordinated, as in Italy, to painting, is
more precocious in its evolution. One of the most marked features of this period was the progress
in the art of design, due to bronze modelling and bas-relief; for the painters, labouring in
the workshops of the goldsmiths and the stone-carvers, learned how to study the articulation
of the human body, to imitate the nude, and to aim by means of graduated light and dark at
rendering the effect of roundness in their drawing. The laws of perspective and foreshortening
were worked out by Paolo Uccello and Brunelleschi. New methods of colouring were attempted
by the Peselli and the Pollajuoli. Abandoning the conventional treatment of religious themes,
the artists began to take delight in motives drawn from everyday experience. It became the
fashion to introduce contemporary costumes, striking portraits, and familiar incidents into
sacred subjects, so that many pictures of this period, though worthless to the student of religious
art, are interesting for their illustration of Florentine custom and character. At the same
time the painters began to imitate landscape and architecture, loading the background of their
frescoes with pompous vistas of palaces and city towers, or subordinating their figures to
fantastic scenery of wood and rock and seashore. Many were naturalists, delighting, like Gentile
da Fabriano, in the delineation of field flowers and living creatures, or, like Piero di Cosimo,
in the portrayal of things rare and curious. Gardens please their eyes, and birds and beasts
and insects. Whole menageries and aviaries, for instance, were painted by Paolo Uccello. Others,
again, abandoned the old ground of Christian story for the tales of Greece and Rome; and not
the least charming products of the time are antique motives treated with the freshness of romantic
feeling. We look in vain for the allegories of the Giottesque masters: that stage of thought
has been traversed, and a new cycle of poetic ideas, fanciful, idyllic, corresponding to Boiardo's
episodes rather than to Dante's vision, opens for the artist. Instead of seeking to set forth
vast subjects with the equality of mediocrity, like the Gaddi, or to invent architectonic compositions
embracing the whole culture of their age, like the Lorenzetti, the painters were now bent upon
realising some special quality of beauty, expressing some fantastic motive, or solving some
technical problem of peculiar difficulty. They had, in fact, outgrown the childhood of their
art; and while they had not yet attained to mastery, had abandoned the impossible task of making
it the medium of universal expression. In this way the manifold efforts of the workers in the
first half of the fifteenth century prepared the ground for the great painters of the Golden
Age. It remained for Raphael and his contemporaries to achieve the final synthesis of art in
masterpieces of consummate beauty. But this they could not have done without the aid of those
innumerable intermediate labourers, whose productions occupy in art the place of Bacon's media
axiomata in science. Remembering this, we ought not to complain that the purpose of painting
at this epoch was divided, or that its achievements were imperfect. The whole intellectual
conditions of the country were those of growth, experiment, preparation, and acquisition, rather
than of full accomplishment. What happened in the field of painting, was happening also in
the field of scholarship; and we have good reason to be thankful that by the very nature of
the arts, these tentative endeavours have a more enduring charm than the dull tomes of contemporary
students. Nor, again, is it rational to regret that painting, having started with the sincere
desire of expressing the hopes and fears that agitate the soul of man, and raise him to a spiritual
region, should now be occupied with lessons in perspective and anatomy. In the twofold process
of discovering the world and man, this dry ground had inevitably to be explored, and its exploration
could not fail to cost the sacrifice of much that was impassioned and imaginative in the earlier
and less scientific age of art.[161] The spirit of Cosimo de' Medici, almost cynical in its
positivism, the spirit of Sixtus IV., almost godless in its egotism, were abroad in Italy at
this period;[162] indeed, the fifteenth century presents at large a spectacle of prosaic worldliness
and unideal aims. Yet the work done by the artists was the best work of the epoch, far more
fruitful of results and far more permanently valuable than that of Filelfo inveighing in filthy
satires against his personal foes, or of Beccadelli endeavouring to inoculate modern literature
with the virus of pagan vices. Petrarch in the fourteenth century had preached the evangel
of humanism; Giotto in the fourteenth century had given life to painting. The students of the
fifteenth, though their spirit was so much baser and less large than Petrarch's, were following
in the path marked out for them and leading forward to Erasmus. The painters of the fifteenth,
though they lacked the unity of aim and freshness of their master, were learning what was needful
for the crowning and fulfilment of his labours on a loftier stage.

Foremost among the pioneers of Renaissance-painting, towering above them all by head and shoulders,
like Saul among the tribes of Israel, stands Masaccio.[163] The Brancacci Chapel of the Carmine
at Florence, painted in fresco almost entirely by his hand, was the school where all succeeding
artists studied, and whence Raphael deigned to borrow the composition and the figures of a
portion of his Cartoons. The "Legend of S. Catherine," painted by Masaccio in 8. Clemente at
Rome, though an earlier work, is scarcely less remarkable as evidence that a new age had begun
for art. In his frescoes the qualities essential to the style of the Renaissance--what Vasari
calls the modern manner--appear precociously full-formed. Besides life and nature they have
dignity and breadth, the grand and heightened manner of emancipated art. Masaccio is not inferior
to Giotto in his power of telling a story with simplicity; but he understands the value of
perspective for realising the circumstances of the scene depicted. His august groups of the
Apostles are surrounded by landscape tranquillising to the sense and pleasant to the eye. Mountain-lines
and distant horizons lend space and largeness to his compositions, and the figures of his men
and women move freely in a world prepared for them. In Masaccio's management of drapery we
discern the influence of plastic art; without concealing the limbs, which are always modelled
with a freedom that suggests the power of movement even in stationary attitudes, the voluminous
folds and broad masses of powerfully coloured raiment invest his forms with a nobility unknown
before in painting. His power of representing the nude is not less remarkable. But what above
all else renders his style attractive is the sense of aërial space. For the first time in art
the forms of living persons are shown moving in a transparent medium of light, graduated according
to degrees of distance, and harmonised by tones that indicate an atmospheric unity. In comparing
Masaccio with Giotto we must admit that, with so much gained, something has been sacrificed.
Giotto succeeded in presenting the idea, the feeling, the pith of the event, and pierced at
once to the very ground-root of imagination. Masaccio thinks over-much, perhaps, of external
form, and is intent on air-effects and colouring. He realises the phenomenal truth with a largeness
and a dignity peculiar to himself. But we ask whether he was capable of bringing close to our
hearts the secret and the soul of spiritual things. Has not art beneath his touch become more
scenic, losing thereby somewhat of dramatic poignancy?

Born in 1402, Masaccio left Florence in 1429 for Rome, and was not heard of by his family again.
Thus perished, at the early age of twenty-seven, a painter whose work reveals not only the
originality of real creative genius, but a maturity that moves our wonder. What might he not
have done if he had lived? Between his style in the Brancacci chapel and that of Raphael in
the Vatican there seems to be but a narrow gap, which might perchance have been passed over
by this man, if death had spared him.

Masaccio can by no means be taken as a fair instance of the painters of his age. Gifted with
exceptional powers, he overleaped the difficulties of his art, and arrived intuitively at results
whereof as yet no scientific certainty had been secured. His contemporaries applied humbler
talents to severe study, and wrought out by patient industry those principles which Masaccio
had divined. Their work is therefore at the same time more archaic and more pedantic, judged
by modern standards. It is difficult to imagine a style of painting less attractive than that
of Paolo Uccello.[164] Yet his fresco of the "Deluge" in the cloisters of S. Maria Novella,
and his battlepieces--one of which may be seen in the National Gallery--taught nearly all that
painters needed of perspective. The lesson was conveyed in hard, dry, uncouth diagrams, ill-coloured
and deficient in the quality of animation. At this period the painters, like the sculptors,
were trained as goldsmiths, and Paolo had been a craftsman of that guild before he gave his
whole mind to the study of linear perspective and the drawing of animals. The precision required
in this trade forced artists to study the modelling of the human form, and promoted that crude
naturalism which has been charged against their pictures. Carefully to observe, minutely to
imitate some actual person--the Sandro of your workshop or the Cecco from the marketplace--became
the pride of painters. No longer fascinated by the dreams of mediaeval mysticism, and unable
for the moment to invest ideals of the fancy with reality, they meanwhile made the great discovery
that the body of a man is a miracle of beauty, each limb a divine wonder, each muscle a joy
as great as sight of stars or flowers. Much that is repulsive in the pictures of the Pollajuoli
and Andrea del Castagno, the leaders in this branch of realism, is due to admiration for the
newly studied mechanism of the human form. They seem to have cared but little to select their
types or to accentuate expression, so long as they were able to portray the man before them
with fidelity.[165] The comeliness of average humanity was enough for them; the difficulties
of reproducing what they saw, exhausted their force. Thus the master-works on which they staked
their reputation show them emulous of fame as craftsmen, while only here and there, in minor
paintings for the most part, the poet that was in them sees the light. Brunelleschi told Donatello
the truth when he said that his Christ was a crucified contadino. Intent on mastering the art
of modelling, and determined above all things to be accurate, the sculptor had forgotten that
something more was wanted in a crucifix than the careful study of a robust peasant-boy.

A story of a somewhat later date still further illustrates the dependence of the work of art
upon the model in Renaissance Florence. Jacopo Sansovino made the statue of a youthful "Bacchus"
in close imitation of a lad called Pippo Fabro. Posing for hours together naked in a cold studio,
Pippo fell into ill health, and finally went mad. In his madness he frequently assumed the
attitude of the "Bacchus" to which his life had been sacrificed, and which is now his portrait.
The legend of the painter who kept his model on a cross in order that he might the more minutely
represent the agonies of death by crucifixion, is but a mythus of the realistic method carried
to its logical extremity.

Piero della Francesca, a native of Borgo San Sepolcro, and a pupil of Domenico Veneziano, must
be placed among the painters of this period who advanced their art by scientific study. He
carried the principles of correct drawing and solid modelling as far as it is possible for
the genius of man to do, and composed a treatise on perspective in the vulgar tongue. But these
are not his only titles to fame. By dignity of portraiture, by loftiness of style, and by a
certain poetical solemnity of imagination, he raised himself above the level of the mass of
his contemporaries. Those who have once seen his fresco of the "Resurrection" in the hall of
the Compagnia della Misericordia at Borgo San Sepolcro, will never forget the deep impression
of solitude and aloofness from all earthly things produced by it. It is not so much the admirable
grouping and masterly drawing of the four sleeping soldiers, or even the majestic type of the
Christ emergent without effort from the grave, as the communication of a mood felt by the painter
and instilled into our souls, that makes this by far the grandest, most poetic, and most awe-inspiring
picture of the Resurrection. The landscape is simple and severe, with the cold light upon it
of the dawn before the sun is risen. The drapery of the ascending Christ is tinged with auroral
colours like the earliest clouds of morning; and His level eyes, with the mystery of the slumber
of the grave still upon them, seem gazing, far beyond our scope of vision, into the region
of the eternal and illimitable. Thus, with Piero for mystagogue, we enter an inner shrine of
deep religious revelation. The same high imaginative faculty marks the fresco of the "Dream
of Constantine" in S. Francesco at Arezzo, where, it may be said in passing, the student of
art must learn to estimate what Piero could do in the way of accurate foreshortening, powerful
delineation of solid bodies, and noble treatment of drapery.[166] To Piero, again, we owe most
precious portraits of two Italian princes, Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta and Federigo of Urbino,
masterpieces[167] of fidelity to nature and sound workmanship.

In addition to the many great paintings that command our admiration, Piero claims honour as
the teacher of Melozzo da Forli and of Luca Signorelli. Little is left to show the greatness
of Melozzo; but the frescoes preserved in the Quirinal are enough to prove that he continued
the grave and lofty manner of his master.[168] Signorelli bears a name illustrious in the first
rank of Italian painters; and to speak of him will be soon my duty. It was the special merit
of these artists to elevate the ideal of form and to seek after sublimity, without departing
from the path of conscientious labour, in an age preoccupied on the one hand with technicality
and naturalism, on the other with decorative prettiness and pietism.

While the Florentine and Umbro-Tuscan masters were perfecting the arts of accurate design,
a similar direction toward scientific studies was given to the painters of Northern Italy at
Padua. Michael Savonarola, writing his panegyric of Padua about 1440, expressly mentions Perspective
as a branch of philosophy taught in the high school;[169] and the influence of Francesco Squarcione,
though exaggerated by Vasari, was not inconsiderable. This man, who began life as a tailor
or embroiderer, was early interested in the fine arts. Like Ciriac of Ancona, he had a taste
for travel and collection,[170] visiting the sacred soil of Greece and sojourning in divers
towns of Italy, everywhere making drawings, copying pictures, taking casts from statues, and
amassing memoranda on the relics of antiquity as well as on the methods practised by contemporary
painters. Equipped with these aids to study, Squarcione returned to Padua, his native place,
where he opened a kind of school for painters. It is clear that he was himself less an artist
than an amateur of painting, with a turn for teaching, and a conviction, based upon the humanistic
instincts of his age, that the right way of learning was by imitation of the antique. During
the course of his career he is said to have taught no less than 137 pupils, training his apprentices
by the exhibition of casts and drawings, and giving them instruction in the science of perspective.[171]
From his studio issued the mighty Andrea Mantegna, whose life-work, one of the most weighty
moments in the history of modern art, will be noticed at length in the next chapter. For the
present it is enough to observe that through Squarcione the scientific and humanistic movement
of the fifteenth century was communicated to the art of Northern Italy. There, as at Florence,
painting was separated from ecclesiastical tradition, and a new starting-point was sought in
the study of mathematical principles, and the striving after form for its own sake.

Without attempting the detailed history of painting in this period of divided energy and diverse
effort, it is needful here to turn aside and notice those masters of the fifteenth century
who remained comparatively uninfluenced by the scholastic studies of their contemporaries.
Of these, the earliest and most notable was Gentile da Fabriano, the last great painter of
the Gubbian school.[172] In the predella of his masterpiece at Florence there is a little panel,
which attracts attention as one of the earliest attempts to represent a sunrise. The sun has
just appeared above one of those bare sweeping hill-sides so characteristic of Central Italian
landscape. Part of the country lies untouched by morning, cold and grey: the rest is silvered
with the level light, falling sideways on the burnished leaves and red fruit of the orange
trees, and casting shadows from olive branches on the furrows of a new-ploughed field. Along
the road journey Joseph and Mary and the infant Christ, so that you may call this little landscape
a "Flight into Egypt," if you choose. Gentile, with all his Umbrian pietism, was a painter
for whom the fair sights of the earth had exquisite value. The rich costumes of the Eastern
kings, their train of servants, their hawks and horses, hounds and monkeys, are painted by
him with scrupulous fidelity; and nothing can be more true to nature than the wild flowers
he has copied in the framework of this picture. Yet we perceive that, though he felt in his
own way the naturalistic impulse of the age, he had scarcely anything in common with masters
like Uccello or Verocchio.

Still less had Fra Angelico. Of all the painters of this period he most successfully resisted
the persuasions of the Renaissance, and perfected an art that owed little to sympathy with
the external world. He thought it a sin to study or to imitate the naked form, and his most
beautiful faces seem copied from angels seen in visions, not from any sons of men. While the
artists around him were absorbed in mastering the laws of geometry and anatomy, Fra Angelico
sought to express the inner life of the adoring soul. Only just so much of realism, whether
in the drawing of the body and its drapery, or in the landscape background, as seemed necessary
for suggesting the emotion or for setting forth the story, found its way into his pictures.
The message they convey might have been told almost as perfectly upon the lute or viol. His
world is a strange one--a world not of hills and fields and flowers and men of flesh and blood,
but one where the people are embodied ecstasies, the colours tints from evening clouds or apocalyptic
jewels, the scenery a flood of light or a background of illuminated gold. His mystic gardens,
where the ransomed souls embrace, and dance with angels on the lawns outside the City of the
Lamb, are such as were never trodden by the foot of man in any paradise of earth.

Criticism has a hard task in attempting to discern the merit of the several painters of this
time. It is clear that we must look not to Fra Angelico but to Masaccio for the progressive
forces that were carrying art forward to complete accomplishment. Yet the charm of Masaccio
is as nothing in comparison with that which holds us spell-bound before the sacred and impassioned
reveries of the Fiesolan monk. Masaccio had inestimable value for his contemporaries. Fra Angelico,
now that we know all Masaccio can teach, has a quality so unique that we return again and again
to the contemplation of his visions. Thus it often happens that we are tempted to exaggerate
the historical importance of one painter because he touches us by some peculiar quality, and
to over-estimate the intrinsic value of another because he was a motive power in his own age.
Both these temptations should be resolutely resisted by the student who is capable of discerning
different kinds of excellence and diverse titles to affectionate remembrance. Tracing the history
of Italian painting is like pursuing a journey down an ever-broadening river, whose affluents
are Giotto and Masaccio, Ghirlandajo, Signorelli, and Mantegna. We have to turn aside and land
upon the shore, in order to visit the heaven-reflecting lakelet, self-encompassed and secluded,
called Angelico.

Benozzo Gozzoli, the pupil of Fra Angelico, but in no sense the continuator of his tradition,
exhibits the blending of several styles by a genius of less creative than assimilative force.
That he was keenly interested in the problems of perspective and foreshortening, and that none
of the knowledge collected by his fellow-workers had escaped him, is sufficiently proved by
his frescoes at Pisa. His compositions are rich in architectural details, not always chosen
with pure taste, but painted with an almost infantine delight in the magnificence of buildings.
Quaint birds and beasts and reptiles crowd his landscapes; while his imagination runs riot
in rocks and rivers, trees of all variety, and rustic incidents adopted from real life. At
the same time he felt an enjoyment like that of Gentile da Fabriano in depicting the pomp and
circumstance of pageantry, and no Florentine of the fifteenth century was more fond of assembling
the personages of contemporary history in groups.[173] Thus he showed himself sensitive to
the chief influences of the earlier Renaissance, and combined the scientific and naturalistic
tendencies of his age in a manner not devoid of native poetry. What he lacked was depth of
feeling, the sense of noble form, the originative force of a great mind. His poetry of invention,
though copious and varied, owed its charm to the unstudied grace of improvisation, and he often
undertook subjects where his idyllic rather than dramatic genius failed to sustain him. It
is difficult, for instance, to comprehend how M. Rio could devote two pages to Gozzoli's "Destruction
of Sodom," so comparatively unimpressive in spite of its aggregated incidents, when he passes
by the "Fulminati" of Signorelli, so tragic in its terrible simplicity, with a word.[174]

