    "'Memorandum of agreement made and entered into this second day of
    October, in the year of our Lord 1852, between William Charles Capas,
    of Charles-Henry Street, in the borough of Birmingham, in the county of
    Warwick, carpenter, of the one part, and Emily Hickson, of Hurst
    Street, Birmingham aforesaid, spinster, of the other part. Whereas the
    said William Charles Capas and Emily Hickson have mutually agreed with
    each other to live and reside together, and to mutually assist in
    supporting and maintaining each other during the remainder of their
    lives, and also to sign the agreement hereinafter contained to that
    effect: now, therefore, it is hereby mutually agreed upon, by and
    between the said William Charles Capas and Emily Hickson, that they the
    said, &c., shall live and reside together during the remainder of their
    lives, and that they shall mutually exert themselves by work and
    labour, and by following all their business pursuits, to the best of
    their abilities, skill, and understanding, and by advising and
    assisting each other, for their mutual benefit and advantage, and also
    to provide for themselves and each other the best supports and comforts
    of life which their means and income may afford. And for the true and
    faithful performance of this agreement, each of the said parties
    bindeth himself and herself unto the other finally by this agreement,
    as witness the hands of the said parties, this day and year first above
    written."

Here follow the signatures of the consenting parties. The girl Hickson was examined, and admitted
that she had signed the document at the office of a Mr. Campbell, the lawyer(!) who prepared
it, and that his charge for drawing up the same was, she believed, 1l. 15s. The latter promised
her, at the same time, that if the wife of Capas gave her any annoyance he would put in that
paper as evidence. The magistrates, considering the assault proved, fined Capas 2s. 6d., and
"commented in very strong terms on the document which had that day been brought before them."
(See Birmingham Journal, Jan. 5th, 1853.) Has a similar transaction come before the notice
of your correspondents?

I may add that we are informed by the Birmingham Argus for March, 1834, that in that month
a man led his wife by a halter to Smithfield Market in that town, and there publicly offered
her for sale.

WILLIAM BATES.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENOUGH.

(Vol. vii., p. 455.)

This word, when written or pronounced enow, is regarded as a plural, and relates to number.
In this sense it is employed in Northampton and other Midland counties, and is found in old
writers. If the word was always pronounced enow, it must be long since. The distinction above
hinted at prevailed in Waller's time, and he conforms to it in the examples quoted. Butler,
in Hudibras, has both:

 "This b'ing professed we hope enough,
  And now go on where we left off.'
                  Part i. canto 2. 44.

Again, line 1153. of the same canto:

 "For though the body may creep through,
  The hands in grate are enough;"

an apparent exception, but not really such. (See also canto 3. 117. 285., where it rhymes with
"off," as also line 809. At line 739. it written enow, and rhymes with "blow.")

And again, 873:

 "My loss of honour's great enough,
  Thou needst not brand it with a scoff."

Other examples may be quoted from the same author.

In a song, written upon the Restoration of Charles II., we have the following:

 "Were not contented, but grew rough,
  As though they had not won enough."
                  Loyal Arms, vol. i. p. 244.

In the Lamentable Tragedy of Cambises, written early in the reign of Elizabeth, the word occurs:

 "Gogs sides, knaves, seeing to fight ye be so rough,
  Defend yourselves, for I will give ye bothe inough."

In Lusty Juventus, a Morality, temp. Edward VI., is the following:

 "Call them Papistes, hipocrites, and joyning of the plough;
  Face out the matter, and then good ynough."

Here certainly the distinction disappears, as in the next and last example from Candlemas Day,
"Ao. Do. 1512," where Joseph is speaking:

 "Take hym in your armys, Mary, I you pray,
  And of your swete mylke let him sowke inowe,
  Mawger Herowd and his grett fray:
  And as your spouse, Mary, I shall go with you."

It would seem therefore, that this word has had its present pronunciation about three centuries.
{604} Its derivation is directly from the Saxon genoh, but the root is found in many other
languages, as the German, Dutch, Danish, &c.

B. H. C.

MR. WRIGHT supposes there has been a change in the pronunciation of this word, and inquires
when it took place. Now, if my conjecture be correct, there may have been no change, and these
are two words,--not one pronounced differently. Both the instances quoted by him are in conformity
with my opinion, viz. that where the sense is "a sufficient quantity," either in substance,
quality, or action, we should make use of enough; yet where a sufficient number is intended,
we should pronounce and write enow. I recollect (being a native of Suffolk) that I was laughed
at by the boys of a school in a western county, nearly seventy years ago: but I was not then
laughed out of my word, nor am I likely now to be argued out of it.

P.S.--I see that Johnson's Dictionary gives the same statement about enough and enow. This
answer is therefore superfluous. Johnson gives numerous instances of the use of enow from our
best authors.

H. C. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. Wilkinson's Mode of levelling Cameras.--As you have done me the honour to notice my simple
invention for levelling cameras, which I have since had an opportunity of trying in the open
air for a week, and find to succeed perfectly, I wish to correct some errors which appeared
in the Photographic Journal, from which you copied my remarks, and which arose from the notes
being taken down from my verbal observations. The first part is perfectly correct but after
l. 9. col. 2. "N. & Q." By this means a perfectly horizontal plane is obtained, as true as
with the best spirit-levels, and in less time. By tying three knots in the silk at twelve inches
distance from the one bullet and from each other, we have a measure for stereoscopic pictures;
and by making the thread thirty-nine inches and two-tenths long from one bullet to the centre
of the other, we obtain a pendulum vibrating seconds, which is useful in talking portraits;
as it will continue vibrating for ten minutes, if one bullet be merely hung over any point
of suspension."

Thus we obtain a levelling instrument, a chronometer, and a measure of distances, at a cost
considerably under one penny.

The above will more fully explain to your correspondent [Phi]. (Vol. vii., p. 505.) my reasons
for the length of thread stated; and with respect to the diagonal lines on the ground glass,
it is not material what may be the distance of the principal object, whether six feet or six
hundred: for if the cross lines, or any other lines drawn on the glass, cut the central object
in the picture at any particular part--for example, the window of any particular house, or
the branch of any tree,--then the camera may be removed to higher or lower ground, several
feet or inches, to the right or to the left, and the same lines be made to cut the same objects,
previously noted; the elevation will then be the same, which completes all that is required.

In most stereoscopic pictures, the distances are too wide. For a portrait, two inches and half
to three inches, at nine or twelve feet distant, is enough; and for landscapes much less is
required than is generally given, for no very great accuracy is necessary. Three feet, at three
hundred yards, is quite enough; and four to six feet, at a mile, will do very well. Let experiment
determine: for every photographer must learn his profession or amusement; there is no royal
road to be depended on. But a small aperture, a quarter of an inch diameter, may be considered
a good practical size for a lens of three and a quarter inches, depending on light and time:
the smaller the aperture, the longer the time; and no rules can be given by any one who does
not know the size and quality of the lenses employed. Every one can make a few trials for himself,
and find it out; which will be more satisfactory than any instructions derived from books or
correspondence. I obtain all the information I can from every source, then try, and judge for
myself. At worst, you only spoil a few sheets of paper, and gain experience.

I perfectly agree with DR. DIAMOND, that it is much better not to wash the collodion pictures
after developing; but pour on about one drachm of sat. sol. hypo. at once, and then, when clear,
plenty of water; and let water rest on the surface for an hour or more, before setting on edge
to dry.

HENRY WILKINSON.

Collodion Negative.--Can you inform me how a collodion negative may be made? that is, how you
can ensure the negative being always of a dense enough character to print from. This is rarely
the case.

F. M.

Developing Collodion Process.--I use to develope my collodion pictures M. Martin's plan, i.
e. a solution of common copperas made a little acid with sulphuric acid. This answers very
well and gives to the pictures, after they have been exposed an hour or two to the atmosphere,
a silver-like appearance: but this copperas solution seems to destroy the glass for using a
second time, inasmuch as a haziness is cast upon the glass, and its former enamel seems lost,
not to be regained even by using acids. The hyposulphite also seems to be affected by this
manner of developing the {605} pictures after a short time, which is not the case with pyrogallic
acid. The hypo., when thus affected with the copperas, appears also to throw a mist over the
picture, which new hypo. does not. I should esteem it a favour if any of your numerous readers
could inform me the cause of this.

A. A. P.

An iodizing Difficulty.--May I request the favour, from some one of your numerous photographic
correspondents, of a solution to the following apparent enigma, through the medium of "N. & Q."?

Being located in a neighbourhood where there is a scarcity of water in the summer months, I
lately took advantage of a pool in a running stream, which ran at the bottom of the grounds
of a friend, to soak my calotype papers in, subsequent to having brushed them over with the
solution of iodide of silver, according to the process recommended by SIR W. NEWTON. One-half
of the batch was removed in about two hours and a half, being beautifully clean, and of a nice
light primrose colour; and in consequence of an unexpected call and detention longer than I
had anticipated, the other half was left floating from two o'clock P.M. until seven or eight
in the evening (nearly six hours), when, much to my chagrin, I found on their removal that
they had all, more or less, become browned, or, rather, had taken on a dirty, deep, nankeen
colour, those that had been first floated being decidedly the worst. I had previously thought
that the papers must be left at least two and a half to three hours, a longer period having
no other effect than that of softening the papers, or, at most, of allowing some slight portion
of the iodide to fall off from their surface, whereas, from the above-described discoloration,
an evident decomposition must have commenced, which I am quite at a loss to account for; neither
can I conjecture what the chemical change can have been. I have several times before prepared
good papers in trays filled with water from the same stream, but from the quantity running
in the brook in the spring months, I never before have had the chance of floating them in the
stream itself.

An explanation of the above difficulty from some obliging and better-informed photographist
would be very thankfully received by

HENRY H. HELE.

Ashburton, Devon.

P.S.--The pool of water was well shaded, consequently not a ray of bright sunlight could possibly
impinge on the papers while floating.

I have always understood that pure iodide of silver was quite insensible to the action of light,
or to any other chemical change, as far as the action of atmospheric air was concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Bishop Frampton (Vol. iii., p 261.).--For some account of this excellent man, see chapter xxxi.
of Mr. Anderdon's Life of Bishop Ken, where are given some very interesting letters, that are
printed from the MSS. in the possession of Dr. Williams, Warden of New College, Oxford. Frampton
appears to have been at one time chaplain to the British Factory at Aleppo. Mandeville, in
the Dedication prefixed to his Journey from Aleppo to Jerusalem, makes honourable mention of
him, and attributes the highly creditable character of the society to the influence of that
incomparable instructor. When the funeral procession of Christian, Countess of Devonshire,
halted at Leicester, on the way to Derby, a sermon was preached on the occasion by Frampton,
who was then chaplain to the Earl of Elgin, the Countess's near relative. In sending these
scraps, allow me to express the hope that MR. EVANS has not laid aside his intention of favouring
us with a Life of Frampton.

E. H. A.

    [We cordially join in the wish expressed by our correspondent, that the
    Vicar of Shoreditch will before long favour us with the publication of
    the manuscript life of this amiable prelate, written, we believe, by
    his chaplain. It appears to us doubtful whether the bishop ever
    published any of his sermons, from what he states in a letter given in
    the Appendix to The Life of John Kettlewell. "I have often," he says,
    "been in the pulpit, in season and out of season, and also bold and
    honest enough there, God be praised; but never in the printing-house
    yet; and believe I never shall be." The longest printed account of this
    deprived bishop is given in Rudder's History and Antiquities of
    Gloucester; and no doubt many particulars respecting him and other
    Nonjurors may be found in the Rawlinson MSS. in the Bodleian Library.]

Parochial Libraries (Vol. vi., p. 432; Vol. vii. passim).--At Dunblane the collection of books
bequeathed by the amiable Leighton is still preserved. At All Saints, Newcastle-on-Tyne, I
once saw, among some old books in the vestry, a small quarto volume of tracts, including Archbishop
Laud's speech in the Star Chamber, at the censure of Bastwick, Burton, and Prynne. It had been
presented by the Rev. E. Moise, M. A., many years lecturer of that church.

The old library at St. Nicholas, Newcastle-on-Tyne, contains many curious books and MSS., particularly
the old Bible belonging to Hexham Abbey. This library was greatly augmented by the munificent
bequest of the Rev. Dr. Thomlinson, rector of Whickham, prebendary of St. Paul's, and lecturer
of St. Nicholas, who died at an advanced age, in 1748, leaving all his books to this church.
In 1825 Archdeacon Bowyer presented a series of lending libraries--ninety-three in all--to
the several parishes in the county of Northumberland. {606} They are in the custody of the
incumbent for the time being. Lastly, there is a very valuable library at Bamburgh Castle,
the bequest of Dr. Sharp: the books are allowed to circulate gratuitously amongst the clergy
and respectable inhabitants of the adjoining neighbourhood.

E. H. A.

The Honourable Mrs. Dudleya North died in 1712. Her choice collection of books in oriental
learning were "by her only surviving brother, the then Lord North and Grey, given to the parochial
library at Rougham, in Norfolk, founded by the Hon. Roger North, Esq., for the use of the minister
of that parish, and, under certain regulations and restrictions, of the neighbouring clergy
also, for ever. Amongst these there is, in particular, one very neat pocket Hebrew Bible in
12mo., without points, with silver clasps to it, and bound in blue Turkey leather, in a case
of the same materials, which she constantly carried to church with her.... In the first leaf
of all the books that had been hers, when they were deposited in that library," was a Latin
inscription, setting forth the names of the late owner, and of the donor of these books. (Ballard's
Memoirs of British Ladies. 8vo. 1775, p. 286.)

ANON.

Pierrepont (Vol. vii., p. 65.).--John Pierrepont, of Wadworth, near Doncaster, who died 1st
July, 1653, is described on a brass plate to his memory, in the church at Wadworth, as "generosus."
He was owner of the rectory and other property there. It appears from the register that he
married, 18th April, 1609, Margaret, daughter and coheir of Michael Cocksonn, Gent., of Wadworth
and Crookhill, and by her (who was buried 22nd July, 1620) he had

MARY (ultimately only daughter and heir), baptized at Wadworth, 27th July, 1612; married John
Battie, of Wadworth, Gent., and had issue,

    Francis Battie, of Wadworth, Gent., who died without issue, 1682;
    having married Martha, daughter of Michael Fawkes, Esq., of Farnley.

    Elizabeth, wife of John Cogan, of Hull.

    Margaret, wife of William Stephens, Rector of Sutton, Bedfordshire.

FRANCES, bap. 1st July, and bur. Aug. 12, 1616.

JOHN, bap. 19th Aug., 1617; bur. Feb. 10, 1629-30.

GEORGE, bur. 26th Jan., 1631-2.

The arms on the memorial to John Pierrepont are--A lion rampant within eight roses in orle.

N.B.--By the second wife of the above John Battie there was issue, now represented by William
Battie Wrightson, Esq., M.P. of Cusworth.

C. J.

Passage in Orosius (Vol. vii., pp. 399. 536.).--I cannot exactly subscribe to the three propositions
of MR. E. THOMSON, which he deduces from his observations on "twam tyncenum" in Alfred's Orosius.
In the first place, the sentence in which the word tyncenum occurs is perfectly gratuitous
on the part of Alfred, or whoever paraphrased Orosius in Anglo-Saxon. No such assertion appears
in Orosius, so that we have no means of comparing it with the original.

The occurrence, as recounted by both Orosius and Herodotus, is attributed to a horse (a sacred
horse, Herod.), not to a horseman, knight, or thane. What is meant by the Anglo-Saxon text
is, certainly, anything but clear, as it stands in Barrington's edition; and he himself confesses
this, and does not admit it into his English translation.

Dr. Bosworth seems to have wisely omitted the word in the second edition of his dictionary;
and Thorpe confesses he can make nothing of it, in his Analecta. We find no such word in Cædmon,
Beowulf, or the Saxon Chronicle; and the only reference made by Dr. Bosworth, in his first
edition, is to this very place in Alfred's Orosius, in which he seems to have followed Lye.

May it not have been an error in the earlier transcribers of the MS., and the real word have
been twentigum, i. e. he ordered his thane to pass over the river with twenty men, since the
thane, by himself, could have been but of little use on the other side the river? However this
may be, the fact is not historical at all, and therefore, as respects history, is of little
consequence.

JOHN ORMAN, M.A.

Cambridge.

Pugna Porcorum (Vol. vii., p. 528.).--The author of this poem, as is generally believed (though
its production has also been assigned to Gilbertus Cognatus or Cousin), was Joannes Leo Placentius,
or Placentinus, of whom the following account is given in the Biographie Universelle:

    "Jean-Leo Placentius ou Le Plaisant, n'est connu que comme l'auteur
    d'un petit poème tautogramme, genre de composition qui ne peut offrir
    que le frivole mérite de la difficulté vaincue. Né à Saint Trond, au
    pays de Liège, il fit ses études à Bois-le-Duc, dans l'école des
    Hiéronomytes; embrassa la vie religieuse, au commencement du seizième
    siècle, dans l'ordre des Dominicains, et fut envoyé à Louvain pour y
    faire son cours de théologie. Les autres circonstances de sa vie sont
    ignorées; et ce n'est que par conjecture qu'on place sa mort à l'année
    1548. On peut consulter sur cet écrivain, la Bibl. Belgica de
    Foppens, et les Scriptores ordin. Prædicator. des PP. Quétif et
    Echard."

[Greek: Alieus].

Dublin.

This production appears to have been merely designed as a display of the writer's skill. Dr.
Brown notices it in his Philosophy of the Mind, lect. 36; and Ebert: "PORCIUS, Pugna Porcorum,
per P. Porcium, Poetam (J. Leonem), without {607} place, 1530, 8vo., 8 leaves. Printed in Italics,
and probably at Cologne or in Holland." He enumerates several other editions, the last of which
is that of Walch, 1786.

B. H. C.

Oaken Tombs and Effigies (Vol. vii., p. 528.).--These are rare. Three of the latter exist at
Little Horkesley, Essex. Two are figures of cross-legged knights in chain armour and surcoats:
one is a female figure wimpled. They are supposed by Suckling to represent members of the Horkesley
family, who held that manor from 1210 to 1322.

Another instance is the effigy of a cross-legged knight in chain mail at Danbury in the same
county. An account of these will be found in vol. iii. of Weale's Architectural Papers.

At Ashwell, Rutland, is an effigy in wood of a cross-legged knight, also in chain mail, if
I remember rightly. It is not quite evident, from the description in Weale's book, whether
there are three effigies at Danbury or only one. Of the same material is the figure of Isabella
of Angoulême at Fontevrault. A catalogue of these wooden effigies would be interesting.

CHEVERELLS.

Bowyer Bible (Vol. vii., passim).--Relative to the history and various possessors of this curious
Bible, I find the following notice in The Times, Oct. 14, 1840:

    "There is at present, in the possession of Mrs. Parker of Golden
    Square, a copy of Macklin's Bible in forty-five large volumes,
    illustrated with nearly 7000 engravings from the age of Michael Angelo
    to that of Reynolds and West. The work also contains about 200 original
    drawings or vignettes by Loutherbourg.

    "The prints and etchings include the works of Raffaelle, Marc Antonio,
    Albert Durer, Callot, Rembrandt, and other masters, consisting of
    representations of nearly every fact, circumstance, and object
    mentioned in the Holy Scriptures. There are, moreover, designs of
    trees, plants, flowers, quadrupeds, birds, fishes, and insects; such
    as, besides fossils, have been adduced in proof of the universal
    Deluge. The most authentic Scripture atlasses are bound up with the
    volumes. The Bible was the property of the late Mr. Bowyer the
    publisher, who collected and arranged the engravings, etchings, and
    drawings at great expense and labour; and he is said to have been
    engaged for upwards of thirty years in rendering it perfect. It was
    insured at the Albion Insurance Office for 3000l."

In the British Museum are several large works, particularly British topography, illustrated
in a similar manner, and which thus contain materials of the rarest and most valuable description.
Of these I would only at present mention Salmon's Hertfordshire illustrated by Baskerville,
and Lysons's Environs, in the King's Library. A long list of such valuable works might be furnished
from the Museum catalogues.

One of the most laborious collectors of curious prints of every kind was John Bagford, whose
voluminous collections are amongst the Harleian MSS. in many folio volumes, in which will be
found illustrations of topography to be met with nowhere else.

E. G. BALLARD.

Longevity (Vol. vii., pp. 358. 504.).--Our friend A. J. is certainly not one of the "remnant
of true believers." By way of aiding in the crusade to convert him to the faith, I hereunder
quote a couple of instances, "within the age of registers," which I trust will in some degree
satisfy his pagan incredulity. The parish registers of the township of Church Minshull, in
Cheshire, begin in 1561, and in the portion for the year 1649 appears the following:

    "Thomas Damme, of Leighton, buried the 26th of February, being of the
    age of seven score and fourteen."

This entry was made under the "Puritan dispensation," when the parish scribe was at any rate
supposed to be an "oracle of truth." Here, however, is another instance, culled from the Register
of Burials for the parish of Frodsham, also in Cheshire:

 "1512/3. Feb. 12. Thomas Hough, cujus ætas CXLI."

And again, on the very next day after--

 "---- Feb. 13. Randle Wall, ætas 104."

I have met with other instances, but those now enumerated will probably suffice for my present
purpose.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

John Locke, baptized 17th December, 1716, in the parish of Coney Weston, was buried in Larling
parish, county of Norfolk, 21st July, 1823. He is registered as 110 years of age. He and his
family always said that he was three years old when he was baptized. I saw and conversed with
him in Jan. 1823.

F. W. J.

Lady Anne Gray (Vol. vii., p. 501.).--Referring to Sir John Harington's poem, I do not find
that the Christian name of the Lady Gray is set down at all; the words of the stanza are,--

 "First doth she give to Grey,
  The falcon's curtesse kind."

I find in the pedigrees, British Museum, a "Lady Anne Grey" (daughter to John Lord Grey of
Pirgo, brother to Henry Grey, Duke of Suffolk) married to "Henry Denny of Waltham," father
to the Earl of Norwich of that name. She was his first wife, and dying without issue, he married
again "Lady Honora Grey, daughter of Lord Grey de Wilton;" but I scarce think this Lady Anne
Grey could have been the maid of honour to the princess. The number of Greys of different stocks
and branches at that period, are beyond counting or distinguishing from each other, and yet
the fall of a queen's maid of honour should be {608} easily traceable. Isabella Markham, one
of the six ladies, married Sir John Harington himself.

On referring to Lodge's Illustrations, I find the Lord John Grey one of those noblemen appointed
to attend Queen Elizabeth on her entrée from Hatfield to London on her accession, so that his
daughter may well have been one of her maids of honour; yet from comparison of dates I think
she can scarce have been the wife of Henry Denny.

A. B. R.

Belmont.

Sir John Fleming (Vol. vii., p. 356.).--If CARET can obtain access to the pedigree of the Flemings
of Rydal Hall, Westmoreland, I anticipate he will find that this Sir John was the third son
of Sir Michael le Fleming, who came over at the instance of Baldwin, Earl of Flanders, to assist
King William in his conquest of England. I may add that the Rydal family, honoured with a baronetcy,
Oct. 4, 1704, bear for their arms--"Gules, a fret argent."

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Life (Vol. vii., p. 429.).--Campbell, in his lines entitled A Dream, writes:

 "Hast thou felt, poor self-deceiver!
    Life's career so void of pain,
  As to wish its fitful fever
    New begun again?"

Though everybody knows the line--

 "After life's fitful fever he sleeps well"--

I think Campbell might have acknowledged his adoption of the words by marking them, and might
have improved his own lines (with all deference be it said) if he had written--

 "Hast thou felt, poor self-deceiver!
    Thy career so void of pain,
  As to wish 'life's fitful fever'
    New begun again?"

F. JAMES.

    "I would not live my days over again if I could command them by a wish,
    for the snares of life are greater than the fears of death." (Penn's
    father, the Admiral.)

Penn himself said, that if he had to live his life over again, he could serve God, his neighbour,
and himself better than he had done. Considering the history of the father and son's respective
lives (and of those I before alluded to), though the latter's remarks may appear presumptuous,
which showed the most wisdom is an open question. Does not H. C. K.'s professional experience
enable him to give a more certain opinion of ordinary men's feelings than is expressed in "I
fear not?"

A. C.

Family of Kelway (Vol. vii., p. 529.).--In reply to the Query as to this family in "N. & Q."
of May 28, I beg to mention that in MS. F. 9. in the Heraldic MSS. in Queen's College library,
Oxford, is a pedigree of the family of Kelway of Shereborne, co. Dorset, and White Parish, Wilts.

The arms are beautifully tricked. There is a bordure engrailed to the Kelway coat. With it
are these quarterings: 2, a leopard's face g. entre five birds close s., three in chief, two
in base. 3, az. a camel statant arg. Crest, on a wreath arg. and g. a cock arg. crested, beaked,
wattled, az.

D. P.

Sir G. Browne, Bart. (Vol. vii., p. 528.).--The particulars given by NEWBURY, while introducing
his Query, are extremely vague and inaccurate. This gentleman, who would have been a valuable
acquisition to any nascent colony, married Elizabeth (not Eleanor), second daughter of Sir
Richard Blount, of Maple Durham, and had by her nineteen children, pretty evenly divided as
to sex: for I read that of the daughters, three at least died young; other three became nuns
and one married ---- Yates, Esq., a Berkshire gentleman. Of the sons, three, as NEWBURY relates,
fell gloriously fighting for Charles, their sovereign. Neither of these latter were married:
indeed, the only sons who ventured at all into the bonds of wedlock were George, the heir,
and John, a younger brother. George married Mary Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Francis Englefield,
Knt., a Popish recusant, and left two daughters, his co-heiresses. John, his brother, created
a baronet May 19th, 1665, married Mrs. Bradley, a widow, and had issue three sons and three
daughters. The sons, Anthony, John, and George, inherited the baronetcy in succession, the
two former dying bachelors: the third son, Sir George, married his sister-in-law, Gertrude
Morley, and left three sons, the first of whom, Sir John, succeeded his father; and with him
the baronetcy became dormant, if not indeed extinct.

T. HUGHES.

Chester.

Americanisms, so called (Vol. vi., p. 554.; Vol. vii., p. 51.).--Thurley Bottom, near Great
Marlow, dear to "the Fancy," may be added to the list of J. S.'s.

F. JAMES.

