Boyle your Quinces that you intend to keep, whole and unpared, in faire water, till they be
soft, but not too violently for feare you break them, when they are soft take them out, and
boyle some Quinces pared, quarter'd, and coar'd, and the parings of the Quinces with them in
the same liquor, to make it strong, and when they have boyled a good time, enough to make the
liquor of sufficient strength, take out the quartered Quinces and parings, and put the liquor
into a pot big enough to receive all the Quinces, both whole and quartered, and put them into
it, when the liquor is thorow cold, and so keep them for your use close covered.

To make Quince Cakes.

Prepare your Quinces, and take the just weight of them in Sugar, beaten finely, and searcing
halfe of it, then of the rest make a Syrupe, using the ordinary proportion of a pint of water
to a pound of Sugar, let your Quinces be well beaten, and when the Syrupe is cand height, put
in your Quince, and boyle it to a past, keeping it with continuall stirring, then work it up
with the beaten Sugar which you reserved, and these Cakes will tast well of the Quinces.

To make Printed Quidony of Quinces.

Take two pound of Quinces, paired, coared, and cut in small pieces, and put them into a faire
posnet, with a quart of faire water, and when they are boyled tender, put into them one pound
of Sugar clarified, with halfe a pint of faire water, let them boyle till all the fruit fall
to the bottom of the posnet, then let the liquid substance run through a faire linnen cloath
into a clean bason, then put it into a posnet, and let it boyle till it come to a jelly, then
Print it in your Moulds, and turne it into your boxes. You shall know when it is ready to Print,
by rouling it on the back of a Spoone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Roses.

To make sweet Bagges to lay Linnen in.

Take Damask Rose budds, pluck them, and dry the leaves in the shadow, the tops of Lavender
flowers, sweet Margerom, and Basill, of each a handfull, all dryed and mingled with the Rose
leaves, take also of Benjamin, Storax, Gallingall roots, and Ireos or Orris roots, twice as
much of the Orris as of any of the other, beaten in fine powder: a peece of cotten wool wetted
in Rose-water, and put to it a good quantity of Musk and Ambergreece made into powder, and
sprinkle them with some Civet dissolved in Rose-water, lay the Cotten in double paper, and
dry it over a chaffin dish of coales: Lastly, take halfe a handfull of Cloves, and as much
Cinamon bruised, not small beaten, mixe all these together, and put them up in your Bagge.

A very good Poultis for any Member swell'd and inflamed, and not broken, to take away the paine.

Take three pints of new milk, of stale Manchet crums two handfulls, or so much as shall make
the milk somewhat thick, and thereto put two handfulls of dryed red Rose leaves, and three
ounces of Oyle of Roses, boyle all these together to the thicknesse of a Poultisse, then let
it stand and coole, and while it cooleth rake a spoonfull of Oyle of Roses, and with a warm
hand rub the place grieved, till the Oyle be dryed in, and then lay the Poultisse as warm as
you may endure it, to the part inflamed; doe this morning and evening for three or four dayes,
as you shall see cause.

To make a sweet Cake, and with it a very sweet water.

Take Damask Rose leaves, Bay leaves, Lavinder tops, sweet Marjerome tops, Ireos powder, Damask
powder, and a little Musk first dissolved in sweet water, put the Rose leaves and hearbs into
a Bason, and sprinkle a quarter of a pint of Rose-water among them, and stirring them all together,
cover the Bason close with a dish, and let them stand so covered, all night, in the morning
Distill them, so shall you have at once an excellent sweet water, and a very fine sweet Cake
to lay among your finest linnen.

Oyle of Roses.

Take Sallet Oyle and put it into an earthen pot, then take Rose leaves, clip off all the white,
and bruise them a little, and put them into the Oyle, and then stop the top close with past,
and set it into a boyling pot of water, and let it boyle one hour, then let it stand al one
night upon hot embers, the next day take the Oyle, and straine it from the Rose leaves, into
a glasse, and put therein some fresh Rose leaves, clipt as before, stop it, and set it in the
Sun every day for a fortnight or three weeks.

Syrupe of Roses.

Take Damask Roses, clip off the white of them, and take six ounces of them to every pint of
faire water, first well boyled and scummed, let them stand so as abovesaid, twelve hours, as
you doe in the Syrupe of Violets, wringing out the Roses and putting in new eight times, then
wringing out the last put in onely the juice of four ounces of Roses, so make it up as before,
if you will put in Rubarb, take to every two drams, slice it, string it on a thred, hang it
within the pot after the first shifting, and let it infuse within your Roses: Some use to boyle
the Rubarb in the Syrupe, but it is dangerous, the Syrupe purgeth Choller and Melancholly.

A Conserve of Roses.

Take red Rose buds, clip of all the white, bruised, and withered from them, then weigh them
out, and taking to every pound of Roses three pound of Sugar, stamp the Roses by themselves
very small putting a little juice of Lemmons or Rose water to them as they wax dry, when you
see the Roses small enough, put the Sugar to them, and beat them together till they be well
mingled, then put it up in Gally pots or glasses; in like manner are the Conserverves of Flowers,
of Violets, Cowslips, Marigolds, Sage, and Sea boise made.

To Preserve Roses or any other Flowers.

Take one pound of Roses, three pound of Sugar, one pint of Rose water, or more, make your Syrupe
first, and let it stand till it be cold, then take your Rose leaves, having first clipt off
all the white, put them into the cold Syrupe, then cover them, and set them on a soft fire,
that they may but simper for two or three hours, then while they are hot put them into pots
or glasses for your use.

How to Preserve Barbaries.

First take the fairest Barbaries, and of them the greatest bunches you can get, and with a
needle take out the stones on the one side of them, then weigh out to every halfe pound of
them one pound of Sugar, put them into a Preserving pan, strow the Sugar on them, and let them
boyle a quarter of an hour softly, then taking out the Barbaries let the Syrupe boyle a quarter
of an hour more, then put in the Barbaries againe, and let them boyle a pretty while with the
Syrupe, then take them from the Syrupe, and let them both stand till they be cold, and so put
them up.

To keep Barbaries to garnish your Meat.

Take the worst of them, and boyle them in faire water, and straine the liquor from them, and
while the liquor is hot put it into your Barbaries, being clean picked, and stop them up, and
if they mould much, wash them throughly in the liquor, then boyle the liquor againe, and strayne
it, and let it coole, then put it to your Barbaries againe.

Conserve of Barbaries.

Take your Barbaries, pick them clean in faire branches, and wash them clean, and dry them on
a cloath, then take some other Barbaries, and boyle them in Clarret wine till they be very
soft, then straine them, and rub them so well through the strainer, that you may know the substance
of them, and boyle up this matter thus strained out, till it be very sweet, and somwhat thick,
then setting it by till it be cold, and then put in your branches of Barbaries into gally pots,
or glasses, and fill it up with the cold Syrupe, and so shall you have both Syrupe, and also
Barbaries, to use at your pleasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Almonds.

To make Almond Biscate.

Steepe one pound of Almonds so long in cold water, till they will blanch, then put them in
Rose-water, and beat them in so much Rose-water as will keep them from growing to an Oyle,
and no more; take one pound of Sugar beaten very fine, and sifted through a Searce, take the
whites of six Eggs beat to a froth, as you use to doe for other Bisket, with a spoonfull of
fine flower, set the Almonds and Sugar on a soft Charcoal fire, let them boyle together till
they be very thick, and so let them stand till they be almost cold, then beat the Eggs and
that together, put in a little Muske for the better tast, if you please, then lay them upon
papers, in what proportion you will, and dry them in an Oven, with a slack fire.

To make Almond Milke.

Take a rib of Mutton or Veale, or rather a Chicken, boyle it in faire water, put thereto French
Barley, a Fennill root, a Parsly root, Violet leaves, Strawberry leaves, and Cinquefoyle leaves,
and boyle them all together, till the meat be over boyled, then strayne out the liquor from
the rest, while they are boyling blanch a proportion of Almonds answerable to the liquor, beat
them well in a clean stone Morter, and then grind them therein with Rose water and Sugar, and
when they are well ground put in all your liquor by little and little, and grind with them
till they be all well Compounded, and then strayne it into a faire glasse, and use it at your
pleasure.

An approved Medicine for the running of the Reines.

Make Almond Milke of Plantine water, or else boyle Plantine in the liquor whereof you make
your Almond Milk, take a quart of it, and put thereto three spoonfulls of Lentive farine, and
three spoonfulls of Cinamon water, take of this at six in the morning, a good draught, two
hours before dinner another, at four of the clock in the afternoon, a third, and two hours
after supper a fourth; and twice or thrice between meals, eat a spoonfull of Conserve of Red
Roses at a time.

Oyle of Almonds.

Take Almonds, blanch them, and put them into a pot, and set that pot in another pot of water
that boyleth, and the steam of the seething pot will arise and enter into the pot with the
Almonds, and that will become Oyle when they are stamped and wringed through a cloath. Thus
they make Oyle of the kernels of Filberts, Walnuts, &c.

A Barley Cream to procure sleep, or Almond Milke.

Take a good handfull of French Barley, wash it cleane in warme water, and boyle it in a quart
of sayre water to the halfe, then put our the water from the Barley, and put the Barley into
a pottell of new clean water, with a Parsley, and a Fennell root, clean washed, and picked
with Bourage, Buglos, Violet leaves, and Lettice, of each one handfull, boyle them with the
Barley, till more then halfe be consumed; then strayne out the liquor, and take of blanched
Almonds a handfull, of the seeds of Melons, Cucumbers, Citralls, and Gourds, husked, of each
halfe a quarter of an ounce, beat these seeds, and the Almonds together, in a stone morter,
with so much Sugar, and Rose-water as is fit, and strayne them through a cleane cloath into
the liquor, and drink thereof at night going to bed, and in the night, if this doth not sufficiently
provoke sleep, then make some more of the same liquor, and boyle in the same the beads, or
a little of white Poppey.

An Oyntment to kill the Worms in little Children.

For stomach Wormes, annoynt the stomach with Oyle of Wormwood, and the belly with Oyle of sweet
Almonds, for belly Wormes take all of Wormwood, Oyle of Savine, and the Powder of Aloe Cicatrina,
finely beaten, annoynt the belly therewith, morning and evening. You must not use Savine in
Medicines for Mayden Children, but in stead of Oyle of Savine, take as much of an Oxes Gall.

To make the best white Puddings.

Take a pound of Almonds, blanch them, putting in a little Milk sometime to them in the stamping,
then put to them three handfulls of fine Flower, or as much grated bread first baked in an
Oven, six Eggs well beaten, a good deale of marrow cut in little pieces, season them with Nutmeg
and Sugar, three spoonfulls of Rose-water, and a little Salt; temper them all together, with
as much Cream as will serve to wet or mingle them; and so fill them up.

An Almond Candle.

Blanch Jordan Almonds, beat them with a little small Ale, and strayne them out with as much
more Ale as you minde to make your Caudle of, then boyle it as you doe an Egg Caudle, with
a little Mace in it, and when it is off the fire sweeten it with Sugar.

To make fine white Leach of Almonds.

Take halfe a pound of small Almonds, beat them, and strayne them with Rose water, and sweet
Milk from the Cow, and put into it two or three pieces of large Mace, one graine of Musk, two
ounces of Isinglasse, and so boyle it in a Chafin-dish of coales, a quarter of an hour, till
it will stand, which you shall try thus, set a saucer in a little cold water, so that none
come into it, and put a spoonfull of the Leach into it, and if you see that stand, rake the
other off the fire, then you may slice it in what fashion you please.

To make Almond Butter.

Blanch one pound of Almonds, or more; or lesse, as you please, lay them four hours in cold
water, then stamp them with some Rose water, as fine as you can, put them in a cloath, and
presse out as much Milk as you can, then if you think they be not enough beat them, and straine
them againe, till you get as much Milk of them, as you can, then set it on the fire, till they
be ready to boyle, putting in a good quantity of Salt and Rose water, to turne it after one
boyling, being turned, take it off, cast it abroad upon a linnen cloath, being holden between
two, then with a spoon take off the Whey under the cloath, so long as any will drop or run,
then take so much of the finest Sugar you can get, as will sweeten it, and melt it in as much
Rose-water as will serve to dissolve it, put thereto so much Saffron in fine powder, as will
colour it, and so steeping the Saffron and Sugar in Rose-water, season your Butter therewith,
when you make it up.

To make Almond Cakes.

Take of Jordan Almonds, one pound, beat them as you doe for Almond milk, draw them through
a strainer, with the yolks of two or three Eggs, season it well with Sugar, and make it into
a thick Batter, with fine flower, as you doe for Bisket bread, then powre it on small Trencher
plates, and bake them in an Oven, or baking pan, and these are the best Almond Cakes.

To make Paste of Almonds.

Take one pound of small Almonds, blanch them out of hot water into cold, then dry them with
a cloath, and beat them in a stone Morter, till they come to Past, putting now and then a spoonful
of Rose water to them, to keep them from Oyling, when they are beaten to fine past, take halfe
a pound of Sugar finely beaten and searsed, put it to your past, and beat it till it will twist
between your fingers and thumb, finely without knots, for then it is enough, then make thereof
Pyes, Birds, Fruits, Flowers, or any pretty things, printed with Molds, and so gild them, and
put them into your Stove, and use them at your pleasure.

To make a Marchpine.

Take a pound of small Almonds, blanch them, and beat them, as you doe your past of Almonds,
then drive it into a sheet of past, and spread it on a botome of wafers, according to the proportion,
or bignesse you please, then set an edge round about it, as you doe about a Tart, and pinch
it if you will, then bake it in a pan, or Oven, when it is enough, take it forth, and Ice it
with an Ice made of Rose-water and Sugar, as thick as batter, spread it on with a brush of
bristles, or with feathers, and put it in the Oven againe, and when you see the Ice rise white
and dry, take it forth, and stick long comfits in it, and set up a staddard in the middest
of it, so gild it, and serve it.

To make White-Broth with Almonds.

First look that the Meat be clean washed, and then set it on the fire, and when it boyleth,
scum it clean, and put some salt into the pot, then take Rosemary, Thyme, Hysop, and Marjerome,
bind them together, and put them into the pot, then take a dish of sweet Butter, and put it
also into the pot amongst the meat, and take whole Mase, and bind them in a cloath, and put
them into the pot, with a quantity of Verjuice, and after that take such a quantity of Almonds
as shall serve turne, blanch them, and beat them in the Morter, and then straine them with
the broth when your Meat is in, and when these Almonds are strained put them in a pot by themselves,
with some Sugar, a little Ginger, and also a little Rose water, then stir it while it boyle,
and after that take some sliced Oringes without the kernels, and boyle them with the broth
of the pot, upon a chafin-dish of coales, with a little Sugar, and then have some Sipits ready
in a platter, and serve the meat upon them, and put not your Almonds in till it be ready to
be served.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Straw-Berries.

A Tart of Straw-Berries.

Pick and wash your Straw-Berries clean, and put them in the past one by another, as thick as
you can, then take Sugar, Cinamon, and a little Ginger finely beaten, and well mingled together,
cast them upon the Straw Berries, and cover them with the lid finely cut into Lozenges, and
so let them bake a quarter of an houre, then take it out, stewing it with a little Cinamon,
and Sugar, and so serve it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Hartichoakes.

How to make a Hartichoake Pye.

Boyle your Hartichoakes, take off all the leaves, pull out all the strings, leaving only the
bottoms, then season them with Cinamon and Sugar, laying between every Hartichoake a good piece
of Butter; and when you put your Pye into the Oven, stick the Hartichoakes with slices of Dates,
and put a quarter of a pint of White-wine into the Pye, and when you take it out of the Oven,
doe the like againe, with some butter, and sugar, and Rose-water, melting the butter upon some
coales, before you put it into the Pye.

To keep Hartichoakes for all the yeare.

The fittest time is about Michaelmas, and then according to the proportion of Hartichoakes
you will keep, seeth a quantity of water in a pot or pan, seasoning it so with white salt that
it may have a reasonable tast, then put a fit quantity of white salt into the water, and boyle
them together, and scum them well; then put a good quantity of good Vineger to them, to make
the liquor somewhat sharp, and boyle it again, then parboyle your Hartichoakes that you mind
to keep, in another liquor, take them out of it, and let them coole, then set your first liquor
againe on the fire to boyle, and scumming it throughly, let it coole againe; when it is throughly
cold, put it up in some firkin, or large earthen pot, and put in your Hartichoakes to them
handsomely, for bruising them; then cover them close from the aire, and so keep them to spend
at your pleasure.

To Preserve Hartichoakes.

Heat water scalding hot first, then put in your Hartichoakes and scald them, and take away
all the bottomes, and leaves about them, then take Rose water and Sugar and boyle them alone
a little while, then put the Hartichoakes therein, and let them boyle on a soft fire till they
be tender enough, let them be covered all the time they boyle, then take them out and put them
up for your use.

To make a maid dish of Hartechoakes.

Take your Hartichoakes and pare away all the top, even to the Meat, and boyle them in sweet
Broth till they be somewhat tender, then take them oat, and put them in a dish, and seeth them
with Pepper, Cinamon, and Ginger, then put them in the dish you mean to bake them in and put
in marrow to them good store, and so let them bake, and when they be baked, put in a little
Vineger and Butter, and stick three or four leaves of the Hartichoakes in the dish when you
serve them up, and scrape Sugar upon the dish.

*OF MEDICINES.*

An Excellent Medicine or Salve for an Ache coming of cold, easie to be made by any Countrey
Housewife.

Take of good Neats-foot Oyle, Honey, and new Wax, like quantities, boyle them all well together,
then put to them a quarter so much of Aqua vitæ as was of each of the other, and then setting
it on the fire, boyle it till it be well incorporated together, then spread it upon a piece
of thin Leather, or thick linnen cloath, and so apply it to the place pained.

To cake the Ague out of any place.

Take Vervine and Black Hemlocke, of each an handfull, boyle them in a pint of fresh Butter
till they be soft, and begin to parch againe, then straine the Butter from the hearbs, and
put it into a gally pot, and two or three times annoynt the place grieved with a spoonfull
or two thereof, probat.

For the Ague in Children, or Women with Child.

Take Venice Terpentine, spread it on the rough side of a piece of thin Leather, two fingers
breadth, and strew thereon the powder of Frankincense finely beaten, and upon it some Nutmeg
grated, binde this upon the wrists an hour before the fit comes, and renew it still till the
fit be gone.

To strengthen the Back weak or diseased.

Take the pith of an Oxes back, wash it in Wine or Ale, and beating it very small straine it
through a course cloath, and make a Caudle of it, with Muskadine or strong Ale boyling it therein
a few Dates sliced, and the stones taken out, and drink it first and last as warm as you can,
walking well, but temperately after it. Toasted dates often eaten are very good for the same.

For a Paine or Ache in the Back.

Take Nepe, Archangel, Parsley, and Clarie, of each halfe a handfull wash them cleane, and cut
them small, and then fry them with a little sweet Butter, then take the yolks of three or four
Eggs, beat them well together, and put them to the Hearbs, fry them all together, and eat them
fasting every morning, with some Sugar; to take away the unsavorinesse of the Hearbs, some
use to take only Clary leaves, and Parsley washed, not cut, or Clary leaves alone, and powring
the yolks of the Eggs upon them, so fry them, and eat them.

For a suddain Bleeding at the Nose.

Burne an Egg shell in the fire till it be as black as a coale, then beat it to a fine powder,
and let the party snufle it up into his Nostrills.

A Medicine for Burning or Scalding.

Take Madenwort, stamp it, and seeth it in fresh Butter, and therewith anoynt the place grieved
presently.

For the Canker in Womens Breasts.

Take Goose-dung, Celedonie, stamp them well together, and lay it plaister-wise to the soare,
it will cleanse the Canker, kill the wormes, and heale the soare.

For the Canker in the Mouth.

Take the juice of Plantaine, Vineger and Rose water, of each a like quantity, mingle them together,
and wash the mouth often with them.

To make a Tooth fall out of it selfe.

Take wheat flower and mix it with the Milk of an Hearb called Spurge, make thereof a past,
and fill the hole of the Tooth therewith, and leave it there, changing it every two houres,
and the Tooth will fall out.

To take away the cause of the paine in the Teeth.

Wash the mouth two or three times together in the morning every moneth, with White-wine wherein
the root of Spurge hath been sodden, and you shall never have paine in your Teeth.

For A Consumption.

Take Ash-keyes so soon as they look wither'd, set them into an Oven, the bread being drawne,
in a pewter, or rather an earthen dish, and being so dryed pull off the out side, and reserving
the inner part, or the seed, or keyes, beat them to fine powder, and either mix it with good
English honey, and so eat of it, first and last, morning and evening, a pretty deale of it
at once, upon the point of a knife, or else drink of the powder in some posset Ale, or thin
broth. Mares milk, or Asses milk, which is best, being drunk warm morning and evening, is the
most soveraigne Medicine for it.

An excellent Medicine for the Cough of the Lungs.

Take Fennell and Angelica of each one handfull, the leaves in Summer, roots in Winter, sliced
figgs twelve, but if the body be bound, twenty at least, green Licorice if you can, two or
three good sticks scraped and sliced, Anniseed cleaved and bruised, two good spoonfulls, two
or three Parsley roots scraped, and the pith taken out, and twenty leaves of Foale-foot, boyle
all these in three pints of Hysop water, to a pint and halfe, then straine it out into a glasse,
putting to it as much white Sugar-candy as will make it sweet, drink hereof, being warmed,
five spoonfulls at a time, first in the morning, and last in the evening, taking heed that
you eat nor drink any thing two howres before nor after.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Violets.

The use of Oyle of Violets.

Oyle of Violets, Cammomile, Lillies, Elder flowers, Cowslips, Rue, Wormwood, and Mint, are
made after the same sort; Oyle of Violets, if it be rubbed about the Tempels of the head, doth
remove the extream heat, asswageth the head Ache, provoketh sleep, and moistneth the braine;
it is good against melancholly, dullnesse, and heavinesse of the spirits, and against swellings,
and soares that be over-hot.

The Syrupe of Violets.

Take faire water, boyle it, scum it, and to every ounce of it so boyled and scummed, take six
ounces of the blew of Violets, only shift them as before, nine times, and the last time take
nine ounces of Violets, let them stand between times of shifting, 12 houres, keeping the liquor
still on hot embers, that it may be milk warm, and no warmer; after the first shifting you
must stamp and straine your last nine ounces of Violets, and put in only the juice of them,
then take to every pint of this liquor thus prepared, one pound of Sugar finely beaten, boyle
it, and keep it with stirring till the Sugar be all melted, which if you can, let be done before
it boyle, and then boyle it up with a quick fire. This doth coole and open in a burning Ague,
being dissolved in Almond milk, and taken; especially it is good for any Inflamation in Children.
The Conserves are of the same effect.

The use of Conserve of Violets and Cowslips.

That of Cowslips doth marvelously strengthen the Braine, preserveth against Madnesse, against
the decay of memory, stoppeth Head-ache, and most infirmities thereof; for Violets it hath
the same use the Syrupe hath.

To make Paste of Violets, or any kind of Flowers.

Take your Flowers, pick them, and stamp them in an Alablaster morter, then steep them two howres
in a sauser of Rose-water, after straine it, and steep a little Gum Dragon in the same water,
then beat it to past, print it in your Moulds, and it will be of the very colour and tast of
the Flowers, then gild them, and so you may have every Flower in his owne colour, and tast
better for the mouth, then any printed colour.

Powder of Violets.

Take sweet Ireos roots one ounce, red Roses two ounces, Storax one ounce and a halfe, Cloves
two drams, Marjerome one dram, Lavinder flowers one dram and a halfe, make these into powder;
then take eight graines of fine Muske powdered, also put to it two ounces of Rose-water, stir
them together, and put all the rest to them, and stir them halfe an hour, till the water be
dryed, then set it by one day, and dry it by the fire halfe an houre, and when it is dry put
it up into bagges.

A good Plaister for the Strangury.

