"It is plain," he said, in the voice of one patiently rebuking a child, "that you do not know
what a German airship can do. Ah! ha! There goes Bristol!" he added, as further detonations
smote upon our ears.

And so the hideous carnage proceeded. Grasmere, Aberystwith, Stratford-on-Avon, Freshwater
Bay and the Lizard--with dreadful precision these teeming hives of English industry were laid
waste, incinerated, scattered to the winds in fine impalpable dust. I thought sadly of the
brave men in khaki that were being cut off by the thousand in their prime (for the gallant
Captain had taken the utmost precaution not to drop any of his bombs in the neighbourhood of
non-combatants). But, after all, I mused, they will soon be replaced by intelligent Germans,
a blessing that civilization will not be slow to appreciate.

At this moment the Captain approached me with an object in his hand. "You neutrals," he said,
"have been deceived before now by the ridiculous reports disseminated by our enemies as to
the results of these raids. But here is the proof." He then explained to me that to every Zeppelin
was attached a large sinker or plummet, which was covered with grease and lowered from a drum
to a few yards above the spot where the bomb was destined to fall. To this plummet adhered
fragments of various objects, animate or other, which the explosion of the missile hurled into
the air. Such a fragment the Captain was now extending for my observation. I admitted that
to my uninitiated eye it closely resembled a portion of the outer surface of a cow or some
kindred animal. "You are indeed ignorant," said my host, smiling in the same enigmatic way.
"The object is undoubtedly a fragment of the propeller shaft of a large vessel, which satisfies
me that at Swanage, where our last bomb was dropped, a portion of the High Seas Fleet was anchored.
And as a matter of fact," he added, producing a small dark object from his pocket, "here is
a part of Sir JOHN JELLICOE'S necktie. Notice how precisely it tallies with the descriptions
furnished by our secret agents, one of whom is actually engaged about the Admiral's person
disguised as a pastry-cook."

Here, then, was the proof. One could not doubt the evidence of one's senses. But mine had been
subjected to an unusual test that night, and when the Captain, well satisfied with his night's
work, courteously invited me to have another glass of schnapps with him I accepted with alacrity.
The glass was hardly at my lips when an orderly announced that we were at anchor in the shed.
Thanking the brave Captain for the most wonderful experience of a not uninteresting lifetime,
I hurried away to my hotel and fell into a deep slumber. When I awoke late that afternoon my
manservant placed in my hand the last edition of the London Times. It stated that there had
been a Zeppelin raid, and that 19 civilians, three cows, four churches, two rows of cottages,
one omnibus, and no soldiers had been destroyed.

I smiled--enigmatically.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Socialist Working Man, aged 25, would welcome companionship
    of Socialist exempted conscientious objector, chiefly for
    week-end cycling; or athletic lady holding similar views
    would suit, residing North Kent area."
                                               Socialist Paper.

It would be much better for him to meet an athletic lady not holding similar views.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OCC. POET'S APOLOGIA.

  Where the moon's unmitigated crescent,
    Sailing through the amethystine deeps,
  With a smile sardonic and senescent
    Down upon our Armageddon peeps;
  Thither, drawn by sympathy ecstatic,
    Like a shooting star my spirit flies
  From the company of gross, lymphatic
    Souls entangled by terrestrial ties.

  Where the sombre azimuths are booming,
    Flecked with argent elemental foam,
  And the stately colocynths are blooming
    In a salicylic monochrome;
  There, transported on pellucid pinions,
    Sick of common sense I seek repose,
  Far from the disconsolate dominions
    Tainted by the tyranny of prose.

  O'er the whole translunar gamut ranging.
    There my astral body slides and skims,
  Choriambic melodies exchanging
    With the apolaustic cherubims;
  Weaving in a polyphonic pattern
    Harmonies that mock at clefs and bars;
  Toying with the shining rings of Saturn,
    Throwing star-dust in the eyes of Mars.

  There, suspended in a sumptuous limbo,
    Like a happier version of the boy
  Drawn by Mr. BLACKWOOD in his Jimbo,
    I shall taste of bliss without alloy;
  Other minstrels may indulge in fighting,
    I myself cannot so far forget
  As to shun the raptures of inditing
    Occ. verse for the Bestspinster Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

For our "Glimpses of the Obvious":

    "An interesting feature in the prone trees was that they all
    fell in one direction, showing the direction from which the
    blast came."
                                                 Morning Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "So soft and loose was the earth that the trench walls had to
    be rivetted."
                                                  Daily Sketch.

A very curious treatment. Personally we always use a safety-pin.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Inquiries are being received at Lloyds for insurance to pay
    total loss in case of peace being declared during the present
    war."
                                              Montreal Gazette.

We ourselves should take our chance of this contingency.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The total import value of matches is less than £1,000,000
    per annum, and if £2,000,000 is to be collected, it will make
    matches 6d. or even more per dozen."--Daily Chronicle.

Mr. MCKENNA surely cannot have realized this.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S POTTED FILMS. THE SENTIMENTAL DRAMA.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE EYE-WASH.

  Whene'er I see some high brass-hatted man
    Inspect the Depôt with his ribboned train,
  When all seems spick and absolutely span
    And no man spits and nothing gives him pain,
  I think what blissful ignorance is theirs
    Who only see us on inspection days,
  And wonder, could they catch us unawares,
    Would they be still so eloquent of praise?

  They think the soldiers are a cleanly type,
    For all their brass is bright with elbow-fat,
  Burnished their bayonets and oiled their hyp;
    Do they suppose they always look like that?
  They see the quarters beautiful and gay,
    Yet never realise, with all their lore,
  Those bright new beds were issued yesterday
    And will to-morrow be returned to store.

  They doubtless say, "Was ever drill so deft?
    Were ever rifles so precisely sloped?
  Observe that section change direction left
    So much, much better than the best we hoped;"
  But little know with what grim enterprise
    For week on week that clever-looking crew
  Have practised up for their especial eyes
    The sole manoeuvre they can safely do.

  And I could tell where many a canker gnaws
    Within the walls they fancy free from sin;
  I know how officers infringe their laws,
    I know the corners where the men climb in;
  I know who broke the woodland fence to bits
    And what platoon attacked the Shirley cow,
  While the dull Staff, for all their frantic chits,
    Know not the truth of that distressing row.

  These are the things I think they should be taught,
    But, since I know what ages must elapse,
  What forms be filled, what signatures be sought,
    Ere I have speech with such exalted chaps,
  I here announce that they are much misled,
    That they should see us when we think them far,
  Should steal upon us, all unheralded,
    And find what frauds, what awful frauds we are.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I was astonished that not a Londoner raised a cheer for the
    fine Bankers' Battalion of the Fusiliers which marched
    through the City to-day. We are really absurdly shy."
                     "Quex Junior" in "Evening News," April 15.

    "The older comrades, who are keeping banks going in the
    absence of the younger patriots, turned out to cheer their
    comrades."
                                     "Evening News," same date.

The older bankers, we must presume, are all from the provinces, and not so shy.

       *       *       *       *       *

[With Mr. Punch's apologies to a noble animal.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

]

Monday, April 17th.--The hon. Member who described the present Parliamentary situation as "a
cabal every afternoon and a crisis every second day" is justified of his epigram. The lobbies
this afternoon were full of agitated whisperers, with much talk of a divided Cabinet and this
and that Minister on the brink of resignation, because they cannot agree upon the number of
men they want for the Army or the best method of obtaining them. All of which must be very
comforting to our enemies.

Some anxiety is felt on the Treasury Bench owing to the marked shortage of Members from Ireland.
Hitherto, whenever the Government has seemed to be in danger, Mr. REDMOND'S followers have
trooped over from Dublin to the rescue. But to-day most of them are absent. Some attribute
their defection to chagrin at their shortsightedness in resisting the appointment of Mr. CAMPBELL
as Lord Chancellor of Ireland. As Attorney-General they fear he will exert a much more potent
influence in Irish affairs.

Faithful among the faithless, Mr. GINNELL was in his place. He is not interested in the troubles
of the British Government. His present obsession is the alleged over-taxation of his own beloved
country. In order that he might have due verge and scope to expatiate upon that grievance be
pressed the PRIME MINISTER to arrange an early sitting on Wednesday and also to suspend the
eleven o'clock rule. At this naïve suggestion the House relieved its tension with a hearty laugh.

How much truth there may be in the stories of Ministerial dissension I do not know; but there
is undoubtedly a CAVE on the Treasury Bench. In the absence of the CHANCELLOR he took charge
of the Report Stage of the Finance Bill, and very well he acquitted himself. Incidentally the
SOLICITOR-GENERAL had the honour of bringing about a notable reconciliation. Among the few
occupants of the Nationalist benches were Mr. DILLON and Mr. TIMOTHY HEALY, who for some years
past have rarely met without a collision. Accordingly when Mr. DILLON had resisted a proposal
to fine any visitor to an entertainment who did not pay the Amusements-tax, it was confidently
expected that Mr. HEALY would find excellent reasons for asserting that this was the best clause
in the whole Bill, and that only a melancholy humbug would oppose it. Instead he vigorously
supported his former foe with an argument that I am sure Mr. DILLON would never have thought
of. "Was it not a weird proposal," he asked, "that a child who had unwittingly walked; through
a turnstile should forthwith become a convict and lose its Old-Age Pension?"

Tuesday, April 18th.--When one has at last screwed up one's courage to have a tooth out, there
is nothing more unnerving than to be told by the dentist that he cannot operate to-day and
that one must come again to-morrow. The House of Commons felt like that this afternoon. Members
had flocked from all parts of the kingdom--Nationalist Ireland excepted--to hear the PRIME
MINISTER'S promised statement. Col. CHURCHILL, Lord HUGH CECIL (with a patch on his lofty brow
denoting a recent casualty), and other warrior-statesmen had reluctantly torn themselves from
the attractions of the trenches to do their duty at Westminster. The Ladies' Gallery was filled
to overflowing.

Then the ominous word went round, "No statement to-day." Sure enough, when the PRIME MINISTER
rose and hushed the buzz of conversation that had rendered Questions inaudible, it was merely
to observe that there were still some points outstanding, that no statement would be adequate
without their adjustment, and that he would therefore postpone his motion for the Easter adjournment
until to-morrow. Sir EDWARD CARSON'S motion demanding compulsory service for all men of military
age would, if necessary, be discussed on Thursday.

Members hastened out into the Lobby to chatter about the new phase of the crisis and to speculate
as to what were the points outstanding, and whether the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS was or was not
the prickliest of them. To the noise and flurry created by their exit Mr. MCKENNA owes it that
his Finance Bill will appear in the Journals of the House as having been passed without a dissenting
voice. Mr. WHITLEY, who was in the Chair, has not the commanding tones of Mr. LOWTHER, and
when he put the question, "That this Bill be now read a Third time," nobody rose to speak.
Accordingly he declared that the "Ays" had it; and though several Members then protested that
they had not heard the question put, and urged that it should be put again, he politely but
firmly declined to oblige them.

In an incautious moment yesterday Mr. TENNANT advised Mr. SNOWDEN to use his imagination. I
should have thought the advice was superfluous, for, to judge by some of the stories that the
Member for Blackburn is in the habit of retailing to the House regarding the persecution of
conscientious objectors by callous N.C.O.'s, his imagination is working overtime. On the motion
for the adjournment Mr. TENNANT had to listen to several more of them. He was rewarded for
his patience by obtaining an unexpected testimonial from Mr. KING, who in his most patronising
tones declared that he was sorry for the UNDER SECRETARY, who was really "a great deal better
than the average man in the street."

In readiness for the PRIME MINISTER'S anticipated statement, Lord MILNER had put down a motion
in the House of Lords in favour of compulsory service for all men of military age; and, despite
the changed circumstances, he persisted in moving it, and made an admirable speech in its support.
Lord CREWE, indeed, found it unanswerable for the time being, as Downing Street was "still
thinking." He could not say when its thoughts would be resolved into decision, but hoped it
might be to-morrow--or, if not to-morrow, Thursday--or, if not Thursday, then perhaps Monday.
Lord CREWE has not sat at Mr. ASQUITH'S feet all these years without catching something of
his methods.

Wednesday, April 19th.--The House was even more crowded and anxious than yesterday. In the
Peers' Gallery a dim figure, carrying a bunch of primroses and looking astonishingly like Mr.
DENNIS EADIE, was heard to murmur, "I wonder whether England loves Coalitions any more than
she did in my time." The present PRIME MINISTER appears to think that she does, for, after
remarking that continued disagreement on material points threatened a breakup of the Government,
he ventured to describe that contingency as a national disaster. The Liberals thought so too,
and cheered loudly; the Unionists were not quite so sure, and Sir EDWARD CARSON, beside whom
sat Col. CHURCHILL, looking as if he had never heard of Ulster, indicated that, while he would
be the last man to refuse the Government time for repentance and reformation, he would in the
meantime keep his Resolution on the Paper for use if necessary when the House met again.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WANTED. Reliable Woman to Wash Mondays, 2s. 6d.
    daily."--Llanelly Star.

Some Mondays are so black.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "War Work for capable open-air Woman of leisure. Wanted to
    help sister of man called up to run sole grocery shop in
    lovely country."--Advt. in "The Times."

Why wasn't he called up to fight?

       *       *       *       *       *

The Observer rebuked The Daily News for unkindness in remarking that at a certain point in
the recent "Poets' Reading," Mr. BIRRELL, "who had been sitting with his head in his hands,
looked up delighted." But was it quite nice of The Observer itself to say in its account of
the same function that "the Prime Minister looked in when the readings were in progress, and
remained for some time talking with many friends"?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHILATELIST.

This was the day appointed, after considerable discussion, for our visit to London, and at
an early hour Frederick and I were ready for the journey. Frederick, who is tending slowly,
as it seems to me, towards an as yet sufficiently remote ninth birthday, had been vigorously
and successfully scrubbed till he shone with an unwonted absence of grime; his hair had been
temporarily battened down; his Eton collar was speckless, and his knickerbocker suit, while
not aggressively new, was appropriate and free from visible rents. I cannot say he was impressed
with the solemnity of the occasion, but he was eager and fully determined to purchase as many
stamps as could be secured for the generous prize of money bestowed upon him by a lady who
had observed his progress in the study of Nature--beetles, moths, tadpoles and the like--and
had noted his ever-growing passion for postage-stamps.

London he looked upon as one gigantic repository of stamps. I spoke to him of Trafalgar Square
and the Nelson Column and the Landseer Lions. He replied by informing me that there was a certain
issue of Mauritius which was valued at £1,200. "If," he said, "I could get that some day I
shouldn't want to collect any more."

"It seems," I said, "a lot of money to pay for a small piece of paper."

"Yes," he agreed, "it is; but perhaps I could get it cheap in some old shop which didn't know
much about it."

I then tried to divert his attention to the prospect of having luncheon with me at the Rhadamanthus
Club, but he begged me not to interrupt him, as he was endeavouring to calculate how many years
it would take him to get together the sum if he could manage to save two-pence a week out of
his pocket-money. After a short mental struggle, however, he gave it up and banished the blue
Mauritius, or whatever it is, from his ambitions and his conversation.

Before we started Francesca addressed a few earnest words to me about the proper care of a
boy in London.

"Be sure," she said, "to see that he keeps his hands clean. I should hate to think that he
was wandering about Piccadilly and Pall Mall with dirty hands."

"He'll have to wander," I said, "with such hands as Nature provides for him. No little boy
can ever keep his hands clean anywhere for more than half a minute at a stretch."

"But you might give him an occasional wash, you know."

"I will do everything," I said, "that may become a father, short of carrying about a wash-hand
basin and a jug of water and a piece of soap and a towel through Piccadilly and Pall Mall."

"And his hair," she said,--"you'll not let it got too untidy, will you?"

"I'll brush it when I can," I said; "but you must remember that a little boy without a Catherine-wheel
of hair on the back of his head is only fit for a museum. I must insist on his keeping his
Catherine-wheel substantially intact."

Well, at last we got off in the train on our adventure, I with a morning paper, and Frederick
deep in a stamp-catalogue, from which he occasionally brought forth things old and new. In
due time we reached our destination and stood triumphant in the stamp-shop. It was not a large
shop, but it was a rich shop, owning countless valuable varieties, and Frederick, whose hands
were now of the subfuse hue which Cambridge insists on for the garments of her candidates,
was soon engaged in an animated discussion with the affable and amused proprietor. At last
the five shillings were exhausted and the deal was complete, the last item consisting of a
perfectly terrific set of Gaboon stamps, each decorated with the fuzzy head of a spear-bearing
native warrior. It speaks volumes for the power and courage of our French allies that they
should have been able to overcome these savage and formidable tribesmen, and reduce them to
the order that is implied by the existence of a post-office and the possession of stamps.

We now found that we had about forty minutes to spare. It is hardly necessary to say that,
being in the immediate neighbourhood of the Strand, we devoted the time to a Cinema. The change
from the Gaboon and its truculent inhabitants to a highly sentimentalised fishing-village was
something of a wrench, but Frederick, clutching his purchases and his catalogue as if his life
depended on stamps, was equal to it. He bore without flinching the storms and the wrecks, and
the bodies of drowned men tossed upon the shore. Nor did he audibly disapprove when one fisherman,
rescued from death, lost his memory for many years, and eventually regained it in extreme old
age amid the rejoicings of his relatives and neighbours.

Thence we passed by a happy change to the detached and melancholy malice of Mr. CHARLES CHAPLIN,
of whom I can now say, Vidi tantum. Mr. CHAPLIN'S victim on this occasion was a well-dressed
foreign gentleman of perfect manners but fiery temper, who was compelled to suffer a series
of dreadful indignities. We left him struggling silently but furiously against an adhesive
lobster salad which Mr. CHAPLIN had, in an absent-minded moment, plastered over his face.

We now went on to the Rhadamanthus. Here the rite of washing and brushing was duly performed,
Frederick remarking with obvious regret that if it had only been on the Cinema he would have
had to throw the soap at me and splash the water in my face. "But," he added, "I shall be able
to do it to Alice when I get home." He was not at all overwhelmed by the marble and gilded
splendours of our palace, but sat himself down to luncheon as if he had an immemorial right
to be there. General Wilbraham (in khaki), Mr. Justice Black, and Mr. Trevor, the eminent publisher,
kind old gentlemen, my friends and contemporaries, came up to us and were introduced to the
little boy and smiled at him and patted his head, where the indomitable Catherine-wheel still
whirled in triumph, and all declared that it was hardly tolerable in another to be so young,
and asked him what it felt like, and said that growing up was the great mistake.

And then a strange thing happened. The luncheon-room suddenly became a
hall filled with boys. The General and the Judge and the Publisher
dwindled and changed. The long-lost hair came back to their heads in
great untidy tufts; they put on Eton jackets and collars and grubby
hands. In fact, they were little boys again; and Master Wilbraham said
he was keeping Cave, and Master Black said something was a regular
chouse, and Master Trevor declared violently that somebody was a sneak
and that somebody else must have tweaks for new clothes. It lasted for
a moment, and then, as with a puff of air, it all changed back, and we
were again in the luncheon-room of the club, four time-worn veterans
and one eager little boy tightly grasping a catalogue of stamps.
                                                            R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"THE SHOW SHOP."

The drama is almost the only religion I know that can expose the mysteries of its ritual to
the vulgar gaze and yet retain the devotion of its worshippers. There is nothing a British
audience so loves as to be taken behind the scenes and shown how it is done--or not done; and
then it will attend the next play and go on adoring with the blindest infatuation. Were it
not for this astounding gift of resilience one might deplore the prurient curiosity that wants
to peep into the hollow image of Isis and get at the machinery of the priesthood.

More human and wholesome is the satisfaction derived from the revelation of amateur foibles,
for here we are laughing at ourselves, as in A Pantomime Rehearsal. In The Show Shop this element
was supplied by a young plutocrat who took a small part with a travelling company in order
to be near his fiancée, the leading lady; and continued in it as jeune premier because she
refused to be made love to on the stage by anybody else. In assuming a rôle for which he was
incredibly ill-qualified he seemed likely to facilitate the achievement of his purpose, namely
to make the play a hopeless failure and so secure the deliverance of his lady from the thraldom
of her mother's ambitions and set her free to marry him.

However, the failure failed to come off, and although he forgot to remove his overcoat (containing
the stolen bonds) at a critical juncture on which the Great Situation turned--the error was
so deadly that the mother, who had stage-managed the thing and was witnessing the first performance
from a box, actually rose in her seat to correct it--the play was a roaring success; and there
was nothing for it but a secret marriage, marred by the prospect of a two years' run "on Broadway."

Mr. A. E. MATTHEWS, as the amateur, made extraordinarily good fun for us; and there was something
fresh in the idea of following up the dress rehearsal with a first night. It not only gave
the amateur his chance of making the big mistake against which he had been thoroughly warned,
but our own applause allowed the company to put into practice the lessons they had learned
in those sacred conventions which regulate the taking of a call.

There are those who say that Transatlantic humour should be interpreted exclusively by a native
cast, and that an Anglo-American alliance is a mistake. I trust President WILSON'S recent policy
will not be affected by this view. Certainly, though the combination was responsible for the
noisiest fun of the farce, the purely American performance of Miss MARGARET MOFFATT at the
opening of the First Act was as good as anything in the play. But happily this is not one of
those imported creations that overwhelm my uninstructed intelligence with exotic colour and
exotic slang.

Mr. EDMUND GWENN, as Max Rosenbaum, impresario, was in irresistible form. Miss MARIE LÖHR,
in the part of the leading lady, was at her lightest and therefore her best; but Lady TREE
(her designing mother), though she played very hard and incisively, could scarcely have satisfied
her own very nice sense of humour with what was to be got out of a character that resembled
nothing on earth (or the Eastern hemisphere anyhow).

In the midst of all the mirth there was a pathetic passage between a couple of impecunious
players, Johnny Brinkley (played by Mr. GEORGE ELTON, who had many good things to say and said
them well) and Effie, his wife, on the theme of the precariousness of their career. It must
have melted the cynical heart of many a critic in the audience, and I for one was almost persuaded
to confine myself for the future to encomium in these columns.

