In inviting our fellow citizens to join in the great cause of justice, and humanity, it seems
almost unnecessary to dwell upon the reasons which should influence their cordial co-operation.
It would be an insult to their feelings and understanding, to suppose them unmindful of the
rights of their fellow men, or indifferent to the honour of their country; yet it may be well
to direct their attention to some of the calamities inseparably connected with slavery, and
to strive to awaken the exertions requisite to effect its abolition.

By the Law of Nature, all men are entitled to equal privileges, and, although, the artificial
distinctions of society may have abrogated it in practice, they are unable to justify the destruction
of a right, which claims for the African that Freedom which the express and implied will of
the Almighty has declared to be inherent in every individual of the human race.

The barbarous policy which sanctified the introduction of slaves into this country, sacrificed
the injunctions of Revelation to mercenary ambition, and for temporary interest bestowed a
lasting disgrace upon posterity. Time and perseverance may eradicate the evil, which is increasing
in importance, and which not only has brought obloquy upon our national character, but threatens
to involve us in all disastrous results of civil discord.

There is nothing in our Republic so deeply calculated to promote sectional jealously as the
existence of slavery. The conflicting policy of slave-holding and non-slave-holding states,
will increase with its unhappy cause. We have already seen to what extent it may be carried,
and it requires no effort to imagine consequences, from future excitement, the most dangerous
to our political existence. There is also much to be feared, in many States, from the physical
superiority of the Black population. The innate principle which so strongly impels to the acquisition
of liberty, is, in itself, sufficient to arouse the energies of the slave; but, when the consciousness
of numerical power unites with the desire of vengeance, arising from long oppression, the influence
of example only, can be wanting to enkindle the exterminating rapacity that usually attends
successful insurrection.

One of the strongest reasons that should induce us to exert every power for the suppression
of slavery, is the indelible disgrace it brings upon our country. A people, enjoying the utmost
limit of rational liberty, who proudly claim the name and rights of freemen, tolerate in their
very bosom the most unnatural and cruel bondage. This glaring inconsistency, in part, justifies
the sneers which the advocates of arbitrary power are continually casting on the boasted liberality
of our political institutions.

We are trying the great experiment, whether liberal Government is best calculated for the happiness
of man, and its opposers seize with readiness the argument, that one portion of our population
is dependent for its luxuries, and even for its existence on the abject servitude of another.
The power of example is lessened, and patriotism turns with disgust from our practical application
of that splendid theory, which declares that all men should be free and equal.

The voice of humanity is loud in its appeal for the emancipation of the human race. The connection
between slavery and cruelty, which results from the rigid discipline necessary to exact unnatural
obedience, is alone sufficient inducement to excite the attention of the Philanthropist. It
is degrading to behold the image of God bending under the brutality of imperious dictation,
subject to the caprice of rude and ignorant authority, and liable to ignominious death for
seeking that liberty which nature has declared to be equally due to all men.

Is the participation of natural right to be graduated by shades of complexion? Shall one man
lead a life of thraldom, because his skin has darkened under a hotter sun? Shall he be the
perpetual servant of his fellow man, because deficiency of intellectual power, naturally resulting
from a want of education and opportunity, have given him less keenness of perception, disqualified
him to stand forth the vindicator of the oppressed, to assert his rights, and demand redress
for his injuries? No! We trust that there is a redeeming virtue in our fellow citizens, which
will urge them to unite with us in abolishing Domestic Slavery. We invite them, because we
believe it to be contradictory to the Law of Nature--in violation of the commands of Christianity--hostile
to our political union--dangerous to a portion of our white population--inconsistent with our
professed love of liberty--degrading to our national character--and in opposition to the feelings
of humanity. Then let not this appalling injustice bring down the wrath of offended Heaven
on our country--join with us in the endeavour to benefit mankind, and be determined that your
zeal shall not waver, nor your exertions diminish, while a single spot in our land is polluted
by a slave.

We respectfully invite a correspondence on the subject of this address, and the communication
of such facts as may, from time to time, come to your knowledge.

                                    OTIS AMMIDON, Chairman.[25]

  Isaac Barton, Secretary.
  Philadelphia, 22, 1825.

THE AMERICAN CONVENTION FOR PROMOTING THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, &C. TO THE CITIZENS OF THE
UNITED STATES.

Among the various subjects which have obtained our attention at this time, that of the education
of indigent colored children is considered one of primary importance. When we look around upon
the one hand, and see the incalculable advantages which have accrued to the children of white
persons in limited circumstances, from the instruction bestowed upon them by judicious benevolent
provisions; and upon the other, to observe the deplorable effects of the want of instruction,
in the case of the neglected children of colored parents, we feel a conviction that the period
has arrived, when the Abolitionist and the Philanthropist ought to renew and redouble their
efforts to remove the unpleasant contrast; and it is with much satisfaction we have learned
that in some parts of our country, the attention of benevolent individuals, and charitable
institutions, has been attracted to this subject, and the success which attended their endeavours,
furnishes a most powerful inducement to follow up so praiseworthy an undertaking by the united
efforts of all those who are one in sentiment with us, in improving the condition of the African
race. We trust it will be readily conceded, that whatever measures have the effect of enlightening
any portion of the community, are a public good; and upon this maxim, the education of the
children of what are called the lower classes, has often been recommended with a laudable zeal,
by statesmen eminent for their wisdom and foresight; from hence, and the acts of some of the
State Legislatures, much has been done to enlighten the minds of indigent children; unhappily,
in some parts of our country, colored children are deprived of the benefits of education by
ungenerous constructions of existing laws; in some, by the absence of all legal provision for
their instruction, and in others by the existence of legal prohibitions; thus leaving a wide
field open for the benevolent operations of those who feel an interest in raising the degraded
African from a state of ignorance which is a reproach to the age and country in which we live.

As regards the capacity of colored children to acquire knowledge, when the opportunity is afforded
them, many facts might be collected to shew that they are by no means deficient in intellect;
that the minds of many of them are of quick perception, and capable of arriving at considerable
degrees of eminence in scientific research; in short, that nothing but the means of instruction
are wanting to the poor colored child, to elevate him to that station in society which he is
entitled to upon every principle of justice and humanity; which his and our Creator, no doubt,
designed he should occupy, and from which he is debarred by the cruel hand of injustice and
oppression.

If these views are correct, it is much to be lamented that instruction has been so long withheld
from thousands of these objects of pity, and our efforts ought to be so directed as to repair
or remove the evil. Under these impressions, we earnestly recommend to the friends of emancipation
and equal rights, that they give to this subject the solemn consideration which its importance
so loudly demands, and adopt such measures as may appear best calculated to dissipate the cloud
of ignorance by which the present colored generation is enveloped, and succeeding ones threatened.
If those measures are pursued with a zeal worthy of such a cause, we trust your labors will
be crowned with success, and the benevolent heart will expect no richer reward.[26]

TO THE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.

It is doubtless well understood, by our fellow citizens generally, that this District is the
property of the nation--that the laws for the government thereof emanate from the representatives
of the people, in Congress assembled, and that all who are entitled to the elective franchise
in every State of the Union, have an equal right to express their sentiments, and urge the
adoption of measures, relative to the abolition of the system of Slavery therein.

We are well aware that some will contend for the legality of Slavery, as tolerated in some
parts of the United States, and insist that the question of its abolition should be left to
the decision of the people of the District, themselves. When we consider that slaves are, generally,
viewed as property, this kind of reasoning assumes a specious appearance: yet it must be borne
in mind, that the inhabitants of the District of Columbia are not represented in any legislative
body; but that the sovereignty over that particular section of the country is vested in the
people of the States--And when we reflect, that the question has long since been settled whether
a legislative body possesses the right to enact laws for the prohibition or extinction of Slavery--that
it has indeed been acted on, by several of the State Legislatures, and also by Congress--we
think that no reasonable doubt can be entertained as to the expediency of the measure in the
present case. It is well known that a very large proportion of the citizens of the United States
are inimical to the system of Slavery; and it is believed by many intelligent persons, who
are themselves residents of the District of Columbia, that a great majority of the inhabitants
thereof are desirous for its total abolition. Viewing the subject in this light, we cannot,
for a moment, hesitate in urging your attention to it.

The friends of Universal Emancipation, in several of the States, viz. North Carolina, Tennessee,
Maryland, &c. have for several years memorialized Congress upon this important subject; but
as a few, comparatively speaking, were thus heard to express their sentiments, little notice
has yet been taken of their petitions. At the last session, a memorial, against the perpetuation
of the cruel system, was presented to that body, by the people of the District, themselves.
This memorial was signed by about one thousand of the most respectable portion of the inhabitants,
among whom were several of the Judges of the District Courts, and even some holders of slaves.
Whatever may have been the doubts or scruples entertained by some of our citizens heretofore,
respecting the propriety of urging this subject upon the attention of the National Legislature,
we conceive that there is no longer cause for hesitation, since a very respectable number of
the people of the District have themselves raised their voice in its favour; and, as we have
before stated, it is also believed that by far the greater number are favourably disposed towards
it.

That the discussion of this question may excite a lively interest, both in and out of Congress,
and that whatever measures may be proposed, for promoting the object in view, will meet with
violent opposition, from the advocates of Slavery, we are well aware. All past experience teaches
us that this is to be expected. Not only the opponents of emancipation in the south may be
expected to throw impediments in our way, but the prejudice against the unfortunate and degraded
Africans, and the self-interest of many others will also be arrayed against us. Yet we would
calmly and dispassionately appeal to the good sense of the people of this nation--to those
who exercise the sovereign authority in this great republic--this boasted land of freedom and
equal rights--and recommend the serious consideration of this very important subject. We most
earnestly beseech them to weigh well the consequences of tolerating within the limits of this
District, a system that has uniformly proved destructive to every nation that long permitted
its continuance. But most especially, we would appeal to them as Christians and Philanthropists;
and urge them by all the feelings of humanity and benevolence--by all the ties of social affection
that binds man to his fellow man--by a due regard to the immutable principles of justice, mercy,
and consistency--and by every desire for the perpetuation of our free institutions and the
peace and happiness of our posterity,--to come forth in their might, and exert every moral
energy to arrest the march of this gigantic evil, ere it overwhelms us, and precipitates us
into the vortex of corruption and despotism.

Not only do we consider the honour of the nation as implicated by the toleration of Slavery
in the District of Columbia; but the example has a most deleterious and pernicious effect even
upon those whose education and habits have opposed it, when they come within the range of its
influence. As a proof of the correctness of this opinion, we need only advert to the conduct
of sundry persons who have acted in the capacity of representatives to Congress from non-slave
holding states. We have reason to believe that they have thus in some instances become so insensible
of the evils of the anti-christian practice as to disregard the will of their constituents,
and join with its advocates in the adoption of measures for its extension and perpetuation.
And we fear that this state of things cannot be remedied until the people of the United States
in general turn their attention to the subject, and adopt measures for the extinction of the
odious system, wheresoever it can be done, consistently with the Constitution of the Republic.

From statements submitted to this Convention, we are glad to find that this subject has already
arrested the attention of a respectable portion of our fellow citizens, in different parts
of the Union. Petitions and memorials, we learn, are preparing in many places for signatures,
which will, in due season be laid before Congress. It is also understood that efforts will
soon be made by some of the members of that body, to effect the great and desirable object.
Let, then, all who are sincerely desirous to wipe from our moral escutcheon this crimson stain,
come forward at this interesting crisis, and raise their voice in favour of the great principle
of universal liberty, and the inalienable rights of man.

We do not consider it necessary to enter into a detail of the history of our proceedings, in
this address; neither shall we attempt to adduce any argument to prove the justice of our cause.
The first is within the reach of those generally, who take an interest in the success of our
undertaking; the last stands undenied and undeniable, among men of the least pretensions to
virtue and candor. But having located this Convention at the seat of the National Government,
many of our fellow citizens, who have never acquainted themselves with our proceedings, may
be desirous to know the objects we have in view, as well as our prospects of success. A compliance
with a wish so reasonable, we deem incumbent on us; and we shall frankly state our views and
ultimate design.

The sole aim and end of this Convention ever has been, and now is, the abolition of slavery
and improvement of the African race, (as its title imports,) in the United States, upon the
principles of justice, equity and safety. The means by which it seeks to accomplish this great
work, are:

1st. To enlighten the public mind, relative to the actual state of the slave system.

2nd. To concentrate the opinions and labors of philanthropists in every portion of the country,
respecting the adoption of measure for its abolition.

3d. To give efficiency to the labors of individuals, and the various kindred associations in
different parts of the Union, by petitions and memorials to the constituted authorities, accompanied
by such information as may be useful to them.

4th. To point out the best and most practical modes of lessening the evils resulting from that
system, during its existence in this republic.

With these views the Convention was originally organized, and upon these principles it has
ever proceeded. It has been eminently successful in promoting the cause of emancipation in
that portion of the Union, where it was at first located; and we consider it strictly within
the bounds of reason to infer, from past experience, that it will exert a salutary influence
where it is now established. As the light of liberty advances, and the bright luminary of truth
shines through the mists of popular error, the labors of the advocates of emancipation will
be duly appreciated and their laudable exertions crowned with success.

If we may be allowed to compare the exertions of philanthropists at the present day, with those
of former periods in the history of our country, the most sanguine anticipations of future
success may be indulged. Within little more than half a century, few, very few, and most of
them possessed of comparatively little influence in the political circles, were known to advocate
our cause. Now thousands are enlisted in it, some of whom are among the most influential characters
in the nation. Then, the system of slavery was tolerated within the limits of the United States,
from the Mississippi to the western confines of Massachusetts, and from the Atlantic to the
farthest north-western frontier. And further, a law has been enacted and enforced, positively
prohibiting its extension beyond the line of thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes, north latitude,
in all the territory belonging to the republic. This great and important work has unquestionably
been accomplished by the active labors of those who have exerted themselves to show the impropriety
of continuing to tolerate the system, and the feasibility of its total extinction.

From this view of the subject we draw the conclusion, that as "like causes produce like effects,"
we have sufficient ground for the belief, that by a faithful perseverance in the same course
of benevolence, the same happy results will follow. We frankly admit that where the evil of
slavery is felt to a greater extent than in the states to which we have adverted, not only
must greater exertions be used, but even the plans of proceeding must be somewhat varied. Yet
we contend that the same grand object must be kept constantly in view, and the same leading
principles ever be acted on, to produce the desired result.

In locating this Convention at the city of Washington, we are actuated by the hope that influential
men from different parts of the Union, may thereby become more ultimately acquainted with our
proceedings, and so far as they may approve thereof, be induced to co-operate with us. From
the very nature of the principles which we profess, it will be seen that our success depends
wholly on the united exertions of the wise and virtuous. Our plans being entirely of a pacific
character and having nothing in view but what is consistent with the welfare and happiness
of all, we confidently rely on the wisdom of the patriot and philanthropist, and the good sense
of our free, enlightened fellow-citizens, for the realization of our hopes, and the consummation
of our important undertaking.[28]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] American Convention, Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1821-1829, pp. 42-48.

[2] Minutes of the Proceedings of the Fourth American Convention of Delegates from the Abolition
Societies, 1797, pp. 37-43.

[3] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1821, pp. 50-55.

[4] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1828, pp. 21-24.

[5] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1828, pp. 25-27.

[6] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1829, pp. 16-18.

[7] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1795-1804, pp. 24-29.

[9] Minutes of Proceedings, Convention of Abolition Societies, Philadelphia, 1821, pp. 41-42.

[10] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1821, pp. 46-48.

[11] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1827, pp. 29-30.

[12] Minutes of Proceedings, Convention of Abolition Societies, Baltimore, 1827, pp. 30-31.

[13] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1828, pp. 33-35.

[14] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1829, pp. 21-24. Common, vide 2. Blackstone,
p. 96.

[16] Two thousand slaves are said to be now offered to the Colonization Society for transportation.

[17] The slave population in 1810 was 1,191,364; in 1820, 1,531,436. Increasing in the same
ratio, in 1830 it will be 1,948,587.

[18] The increase in ten years is about twenty-eight per centum, but as the increase of the
latter portion of the period is much greater than that of the former portion, it will be evident
that our estimate for a single year is correct.

[19] In 1828 it was $24,789,463. See Treasury Report for 1829.

[22] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1801, pp. 37-41.

[23] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1821, pp. 57-58.

[24] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1825, pp. 31-32.

[25] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1825, pp. 33-35.

[26] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1827, p. 19.

[27] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1828, pp. 17-20.

[28] American Convention Abolition Societies, Minutes, 1829, pp. 37-40.

BOOK REVIEWS

     The Bantu, Past and Present. By S. M. MOLEMA. Edinburgh, W.
     Green and Son, Limited. Pp. 398. Price, 25/net.

This is an ethnographical and historical study of the native races of South Africa. The author
of the work is a member of the race whose life he has described. To some extent, then, he has
told here his own story, "relying somewhat on the life of the people in interpreting the psychological
aspect which must be invaluable to a foreigner." As this book, however, is replete with quotations
from various works of white men who have seen the country only from the outside, and the work
contains no evidence that the writer has extensively traveled in his own native land, it drifts
too much in the direction of a summary of what these various travelers have thought of Africa.
The book, moreover, is not altogether scientific; and fraught with too many of the opinions
of others who should know less about Africa than the native himself, it does not satisfy the
need for a definitive account of the life and history of the various peoples of South Africa.
On the whole, however, it is far in advance of most works bearing on the achievement of that
continent and is certainly a step in the right direction, when the story of Africa will be
told as it must be told by the native of Africa himself.

The book begins with an interesting introduction of that part of the work called The Revelation,
which consists of an account of the antiquity of man in Africa, prehistoric Africa, the unveiling
of South Africa and the distribution of the primitive races. In that portion of the work styled
The Past there is a valuable summary of African ethnology, setting forth the various stocks
of the southern part of the continent, their manners and customs, moral conduct, religious
beliefs and language. This portion of the work is valuable, because it is a brief summary of
valuable matter scattered through a large number of volumes.

In that part of the work styled The Present there is much matter which may be found in almost
any history of Africa. What is said about missionaries, missions, the South African wars, and
the like, may be found in various works, and in some more extensively treated. In those chapters
bearing on the education of the Bantu, the relation of the races and the attitude of the government
to the natives, there are adequately set forth the race problem in that part of the world and
the effort toward its solution as expressed in such strivings of the natives as the Bantu National
Congress and the Bantu Press. There is, moreover, the reaction of an intelligent native of
Africa to the impressions made upon him by the European civilization there implanted.

The author does not seem to be very hopeful. On the whole, the ring of the book is rather pessimistic.
Yet he mentions intellectual possibilities as well as impossibilities, bright prospects for
religious developments as well as an unfavorable religious outlook, social and economic prospects
favorable and unfavorable, and finally the hope that relations between the races may be amicably
adjusted so as to secure to the black and white the privileges of a common government.

       *       *       *       *       *

     An American History. By DAVIS SAVILLE MUZZEY, Ph.D. Revised
     edition. New York, Ginn and Company, 1920. Pp. 537.

This new edition of the author's former work brings the narrative down to the spring months
of the year 1920. The author has entirely recast that part of the book following the Spanish
war and has made considerable changes in the preceding chapters to emphasize the social and
economic factors in our history. Some illustrative material has been added, the maps have been
improved and the bibliographical references brought down to date.

This book follows the line of the most recent writers of American history in giving less attention
to the problems of the early periods to treat somewhat in detail movements culminating in our
day. It does not contain so much about the discovery and exploration of the new world and gives
only limited space to colonial history. The treatment of the birth of the nation, the development
of the Constitution and the rise of political parties, is more interesting. The author is more
elaborate in his discussion of the sectional struggle between the North and South, the crisis
of disunion and the Civil War. The drama of reconstruction, however, is decidedly neglected;
but the problems confronting the people thereafter are more extensively treated.

