(To the Editor.)

Perhaps some of your curious readers would oblige me with a little information concerning the
personage mentioned in these lines of Cowper:--

  "And Katerfelto, with his hair on end,
  At his own wonders wondering for his bread,"

Task--Winter Evening.

All that I could discover about him, I found accidentally in a pamphlet on Quackery, published
in 1805, at Kingston-upon-Hull. In a note to that little work, I am informed that Dr. Katerfelto
practised on the people of London in the influenza of 1782; that he added to his nostrum the
fascinations of hocus pocus; and that among other philosophical apparatus, he employed the
services of some extraordinary black cats, with which he astonished the ignorant, and confounded
the vulgar. But he was not, it seems, so successful in his practice when out of London: not
long before his death, he was committed by the Mayor of Shrewsbury to the common House of Correction
in that town, as a vagrant and impostor. When or how he died does not appear.

Cowper, when he mentions the name of Katerfelto, in the Task, in alluding to the advertisements
of the London newspapers--and probably wrote the passage in the year 1782. The Task was published
complete in 1785.

Whoever has easy access to the newspapers of 1782 or thereabout (as I, at this moment have
not) will most probably discover some amusing particulars about this Doctor, that may attract
your readers, few of whom will be more gratified than

Great Russell-st.

W.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHEROOT.

(To the Editor.)

In page 429, vol. xvi. of your amusing Miscellany, the Cheroot is called a China Cigar. The
writer, if he had given himself the trouble to inquire of any person who had ever been in that
country, would have ascertained that there is no such thing as a Cheroot manufactured in China;
and what are called Cigars there are nothing more than a small quantity of very fine cut yellowish
tobacco, wrapped up in white paper, and about two inches or rather more in length. These, the
Chinese sometimes smoke, but generally prefer a shallow cupped pipe of composition metal, of
which copper is the principal part; to which a long whanghee or small black bamboo is attached,
as a stem or stalk, sometimes more than a yard in length, and tipped with an ivory tube or
mouthpiece. They generally carry a piece of joss-stick or slow-match with them, and a flint,
steel, and punk; and when they are inclined to smoke, they strike fire on apiece of punk, and
light the joss-stick, which will continue burning a long while. As their tobacco is very fine
and dry, the pipeful seldom takes more than one or two whiffs to consume it, and they emit
the smoke through their nostrils in large volumes. In this manner they will smoke more than
a dozen pipesfull in a short time. Cigars are generally imported into China by the Americans,
or sent from Manilla; and Cheroots by the English and other trading vessels from Bengal or
from Madras.

In India, the lower orders use a hookah or hubble bubble, which is made of a cocoa-nut shell
well cleaned out, having a hole through the soft eye of the shell, and another on the opposite
side, a little lower down, the first of which is used for the chauffoir, and the other to suck
or draw the smoke from. The shell is nearly filled with water, and a composition of tobacco,
sugar, and sometimes a little opium, is put into the chauffoir, in shape of a ball, about the
size of a marble, which they call joggery. A live coal is then put on the ball in the chauffoir,
and the hubble-bubble is handed from one to another, with the best relish imaginable. Sometimes
a dozen natives, get squatting on their hams, in a group, and pass this delicate article of
luxury from one to another, each taking two or three good pulls at it as it goes round, and
chattering three or four at a time, like so many apes. They likewise emit the smoke through
their nostrils like the Chinese. The women are in the habit of enjoying the hubble-bubble,
in groups, in a similar manner.

The best Cheroots are manufactured at Chiusmab, near Calcutta, where likewise a great quantity
are made up; they vary in length from four to eight or nine inches. A great quantity are likewise
manufactured at Masulapatam, but they are considered as much inferior to those of Bengal. At
Masulapatam there is a very extensive manufactory of a black clammy snuff, which is sent all
over Hindostan.

Camden Town.

R.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORY OF A BOY.

(For the Mirror.)

Some years back a small party of children were amusing themselves upon the beach, near the
town of Conway, in North Wales. One of them a fine boy of three years old being much fatigued,
left his juvenile companions, and unperceived by them, got into a boat not far from the spot,
and fell asleep. The tide soon afterwards coming in, floated the boat, and carried it up the
river; and upon the return of tide it fell back, and subsequently the boat and infant were
carried out into the channel, between Puffin Isle, near the Anglesea Coast and the Lancashire
Shore, or I should say, in the Irish Channel. A trading vessel, in the grey of the morning,
perceiving a small boat so far from any land, bore down, and the crew to their great surprise,
found only the poor child in it, nearly heart broken at its unfortunate situation, and totally
unable to give any regular account of itself. The master of the vessel felt every wish and
anxiety to restore the poor child to its parents, but not being able to glean from it who they
were, and having no children of his own, he made up his mind to adopt the boy, congratulating
himself that Providence had in this singular manner thought proper to send him an heir to his
property, and a delight as he fondly hoped in his declining years. Accordingly after his return
back from Liverpool, where he was then bound, to his residence in the North of Ireland, he
introduced his little charge to his wife, who had never borne him any family; related the very
singular manner he had found him, and they mutually agreed to take him under their protection
until they could find out his parents, and if they were unsuccessful, to bring him up as their
own child.

Sometime afterwards the mother of the boy came to be made acquainted with what had happened
to him, and she caused a letter to be sent to his foster father, wishing her child to be given
up to her; her application was attended to, expressing much pleasure at being able to restore
the boy to her, but stated that he was doing well, and in good hands, they were reluctant to
part with him; and to induce his mother to suffer him to remain where he was, she was informed
that his protector had made his will, and upon his demise, had left the whole of his property
to the child. All this had no weight, she demanded her son, and the little fellow was afterwards
given up, with many tears and regrets by his foster parents, to his mother, at Liverpool. It
would be well could the narrative break off here in the manner it could be wished. But soon
afterwards, upon the return of the boy with his mother to their home, playing with some children
in the neighbourhood of Oakland Carding Manufactory, near Llanurst, he unfortunately fell into
a small sheet of water and was drowned before any assistance could be rendered him.

Paddington.

J.N.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

ANECDOTES OF A TAME HAWK.

(By a Correspondent of the Magazine of Natural History.)

About three years since a young sparrowhawk was purchased and brought up by my brother. This
was rather hazardous, as he, at the same time, had a large stock of fancy pigeons, which, in
consequence of their rarity and value, he greatly prized. It seems, however, that kindness
and care had softened the nature of the hawk, or the regularity with which he was fed, rendered
the usual habits of his family unnecessary to his happiness; for, as he increased in age and
size, his familiarity increased also, leading him to form an intimate acquaintance with a set
of friends who have been seldom seen in such society. Whenever the pigeons came to feed, which
they did often-times from the hand of their almoner, the hawk used also to accompany them.
At first the pigeons were shy, of course; but, by degrees, they got over their fears, and ate
as confidently as if the ancient enemies of their race had sent no representative to their
banquet. It was curious to observe the playfulness of the hawk, and his perfect good nature
during the entertainment; for he received his morsel of meat without that ferocity with which
birds of prey usually take their food, and merely uttered a cry of lamentation when the carver
disappeared. He would then attend the pigeons in their flight round and round the house and
gardens, and perch with them on the chimney-top, or roof of the mansion; and this voyage he
never failed to make early in the morning, when the pigeons always took their exercise. At
night he retired with them to the dovecote: and though for some days he was the sole occupant
of the place, the pigeons not having relished this intrusion at first, he was afterwards merely
a guest there; for he never disturbed his hospitable friends, even when their young ones, unfledged
and helpless as they were, offered a strong temptation to his appetite. He seemed unhappy at
any separation from the pigeons, and invariably returned to the dovehouse, after a few days
purposed confinement in another abode, during which imprisonment he would utter most melancholy
cries for deliverance; but these were changed to cries of joy on the arrival of any person
with whom he was familiar. All the household were on terms of acquaintance with him; and there
never was a bird who seemed to have won such general admiration. He was as playful as a kitten,
and, literally, as loving as a dove.

But that his nature was not altogether altered, and that notwithstanding his education, which,
as Ovid says,

  "Emolit mores, nec sinit esse feros,"[9]

he was still a hawk in spirit, was proved on an occasion of almost equal interest. A neighbour
had sent us a very fine specimen of the smaller horned owl (Strix brachyòtus,) which he had
winged when flying in the midst of a covey of partridges; and after having tended the wounded
limb, and endeavoured to make a cure, we thought of soothing the prisoner's captivity by a
larger degree of freedom than he had in the hen-coop which he inhabited. No sooner, however,
had our former acquaintance, the hawk, got sight of him, than he fell upon the poor owl most
unmercifully; and from that instant, whenever they came in contact, a series of combats commenced,
which equalled in skill and courage any of those which have so much distinguished that great
hero [?], who to the boldness and clearness of vision of the hawk unites the wisdom of the
bird of Athens. The defence of the poor little owl was admirably conducted: he would throw
himself upon his back, and await the attack of his enemy with patience and preparation; and,
by dint of biting and scratching, would frequently win a positive, as he often did a negative,
victory. Acquaintanceship did not seem, in this case, likely to ripen into friendship; and
when his wing had gained strength, taking advantage of a favourable opportunity, the owl decamped,
leaving the hawk in possession of his territory.

The fate of the successful combatant was, however, soon to be accomplished; for he was shortly
after found drowned in a butt of water, from which he had once or twice been extricated before,
having summoned a deliverer to his assistance by cries that told he was in distress. There
was great lamentation when he died, throughout the family; and it was observed by more than
one person, that that portion of the dovecote in which he was wont to pass the night was for
some time unoccupied by the pigeons with whom he had lived so peaceably, even during his wars
with the unfortunate owl.

    [9] "Softens the manners, nor permits to be cruel."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

NIGHT IN A TURKISH CEMETERY.

The scenery round Aleppo is varied and beautiful, and contains some of the richest objects,
peculiar to a land of eastern romance. When the sunset extends its purple flush around the
hills, and the city is gladdened by the sound of silver bells, announcing the return of some
Turkish caravan, a landscape of more extraordinary magnificence never entranced the imagination
of the traveller! At the brow of the sunny hill, on which the peaks of Aleppo glance in the
stainless azure of heaven, are suspended bowers of rose and cypress trees, through whose fragrant
solitudes the streamlet murmurs its liquid song; and the picturesque situation of the scattered
vales is so admirably calculated to inspire the musings of a contemplative mind, that Fancy
might there embody her dreams and phantasies without the fear of receiving intrusion from the
world. The scenes are decidedly distinguished by such attractive beauty, that I am disposed
to think with the poet--

  Methinks amid such scenes as this,
    Must they have dwelt--the bards of old,
  Whose numbers, of Arcadian bliss,
    And Tempe's beauteous vale, have told.[10]

Many an exquisite story has been embalmed in the spirit of song, or invested with the pleasing
garb of tradition, while the lighter incidents of life have faded into oblivion without a tongue
to record them. One of these, selected from the many which my heart has kept sacred among the
dim recollections of the past, sustains the interest of my present sketch; and a more amusing
recital I have never yet transmitted to the pages of The Mirror.

It was a night of deep and tranquil loveliness--a night that seldom fails to soften the excitement
produced by the feverish pursuits of day. The vivid glow of an eastern sunset quivered on the
mountains, and the clouds that displayed their crystal forms in its western glory, seemed coloured
with a tint of the richest crimson. In the azure vault above, emblazoned in the spirit of Byron's
splendid, intellectual coruscation, with--

  Hues that have words and speak to ye of heaven,

thousands of silver orbs sparkled and gleamed like fairy lamps of fire; and the bowers, in
which the "Sultana of the Nightingale" inspired a song from her minstrel lover, assumed the
dream-like repose which pervaded the surrounding scenes, and extended its influence to the
city of Aleppo.

At this silent hour I wandered among the tombs that lay within the cemetery at some distance
from the city: they were arranged with the most pleasing care, and the statuary exhibited on
many of them formed an ornamental grace to their sepulchral beauty. Some were wholly shrouded
in cypress, while others shone in the moonlight beneath a wreath of consecrated roses, designed
to embalm the mementos of mouldering marble. Here a sister's affection might be traced--one
who had lived long enough to lay her sacred offering upon the tomb, and bedew it with the tears
of grief. Notwithstanding its solemn associations, it was withal a place adapted to the most
exquisite feelings, and a sanctuary where the heart might forget its worldly aspirations. But
the Turks, in selecting their cemeteries, far transcend the boasted intellectual superiority
of Europeans; and the one which lay beneath the walls of Aleppo, was, in every point of view,
eminently calculated to confirm me in such an opinion. Its cypress trees,

  The only constant mourners o'er the dead,

when the hearts that deplored the destiny of their friends had mingled with them in the dust,
appeared perfectly congenial with the natural solemnity of the place; and the vortex of succeeding
events has not yet swept away the charm they impressed upon my memory.

As I stood in a state of silent abstraction, beside a tomb distinguished from the others by
a sculptured turban, the sound of a lute excited my attention, and instantly averting my head
from the object placed before it, I perceived the tall shadowy figure of a man, partially concealed
among the cypress trees.--This nocturnal wanderer, my only companion in the "City of the Dead,"
dispelled my gloomy reflections at once, and inspired some vivid ideas relative to his appearance
in such a place. Wishing to attain some means of elucidating the mystery, I concealed my person
behind a tomb attached to that portion of the cemetery, well adapted to shield me from observation,
and by the adoption of this judicious expedient, I succeeded in the accomplishment of my design;
but after the "unearthly phantom" had riveted my gaze for a few minutes, he sank into a sepulchre,
and left me to a series of vague and unprofitable conjectures. In a short time, however, I
observed him quietly proceeding amid the mingled ranks of rose-bowers and tombs, and as he
agitated the silent leaves, he accompanied the music of his lute with one of the sweetest melodies
which Nature has assigned to a human voice. His manner was decidedly captivating, and his fine
manly features produced in my mind a favourable impression of his urbanity. I advanced therefore
from the place of concealment, and explaining the object of my intrusion, expressed my sincere
regret at being obliged to witness the singular transaction in which he had been engaged. He
paused awhile, but at length replied in a strain of such agreeable language, that if I had
entertained any doubt of his cheerful disposition, his frank and persuasive humour would have
finally removed it.

"How the devil came you here?" ejaculated the stranger, putting aside the lute, which hung
suspended from his neck by a diamond chain. "You are deeply in love with the dead, cavalier,
to select such a place as this for the haunt of your meditative dreams."

"Your Turkish cemeteries," I replied, "possess an indisputable superiority over the sepulchral
gardens of Europe. To wander through these bowers of rose and cypress trees at this beautiful
hour of night, enchants the heart with imaginings that soar above our earthly sphere. But were
you inspired by the same lofty feelings when I first saw you?"

"Not I, cavalier; I came to these charnel vaults to exchange a kiss or two on the lovely lips
of the Pacha's daughter, though, the plague to my whiskers! if the gloomy Mahometans were in
possession of my secret, I should be impaled before sunrise, and my blue-eyed Sultana would
doubtless expiate the crime of "lighting up her heart" at the shrine of affection, by being
closed in a sack and thrown into the lake. But, I felt persuaded, there was something English,
in the tones of your voice. Did you forsake Old Albion for the sultry, pestilential deserts
of these infernal realms?"

"Not absolutely; my travels would have terminated at Constantinople--at the Gem of Turkish
Cities--if the Sultan had not commanded me to convey a message to the Pacha of Aleppo, relative
to the punishment of some refractory rebels."

"Oh! oh! then you will remain here. But the time of my departure is rapidly approaching, for
when the beams of to-morrow's sun again illumine the earth, I shall make my best bow to Aleppo--to
its angelic Peris, and retire with my beautiful Sultana--the charm and grace of this eastern
fairy land! But diable! you love a story, and I will tell you of every circumstance combined
with my singular adventure for a wife. Sit down, cavalier, and lend an ear to my romance."

I complied; and the associate of my solitude amused me by exhibiting his humorous loquacity.

"It was sunset, and the starry loveliness of the skies had not assumed the splendour which
now deepens around them with a tinge of purple, when I left the Turkish Divan, and, after dismissing
my companions, proceeded ad libitum along the streets of Aleppo. You may feel surprise at my
temerity, but, remember, that a person delegated by the Porte is as secure in the public walks
as if he were honoured with the chains and straw of a dungeon in the Pacha's palace. But, as
I pursued my path with sauntering steps, I heard the sound of a lute, accompanied by one of
the sweetest voices that ever beguiled a Peri, and turning to ascertain the cause of the music,
I caught a glimpse of the loveliest woman in Aleppo; but I forgot, in the fervour of the moment,
that my feet were treading on hallowed and forbidden ground--the gardens and seraglio of the
Pacha!--and if my beautiful visitant had not expressed her assurance of unalterable protection,
I should have resigned the rose of my story--the loadstar of my life. But why should I extend
my recital. I succeeded in captivating the affection of a Pacha's daughter, and, to brighten
my future hopes, she revealed her elevated rank to me;--yes, I obtained a triumph which far
transcends the energetic deeds of the warrior, and immortalized my adventure with vows of eternal
constancy! Since that period, we have selected this cemetery as a place more exclusively designed
for the effectual development of our concerted escape, and I have at length adopted the determination
of depriving the Divan of its brightest gem. To-morrow we shall quit this enchanted land, and
pursue our course to the Island of the West. But hark! I hear the sound of my Peri's lute among
the cypress trees--she is waiting to embrace me. Farewell! and if she is not my bride ere another
sunset, I will consent to have my body suspended, like the coffin of Mahomet, between earth
and sky."

Deal.

R.A.

    [10] Bernard Barton.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE  UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

(Library of Entertaining Knowledge, vol. viii.)

The concluding portion of this volume has lately appeared, and is entitled to equal commendation
with its predecessors. Among the most important of the anecdotical lives are, Roger Bacon,
Herschel, Watt, and Arkwright--names nearly and dearly allied with the triumphs of science
in this country. In Arkwright's Memoir are some important as well as interesting particulars
of the Cotton Manufacture in England. Our quotation is, however, from another portion of the
volume, illustrating, as we conceive it does, a species of character which can scarcely be
estimated in too amiable a light.

The wonderful Robert Walker, as he is still called in the district of the country where he
resided, was curate of Seathwaite in Cumberland during the greater part of last century. The
fullest account that has appeared of Mr. Walker is that given, in the notes to his series of
sonnets entitled "The River Duddon," by Mr. Wordsworth, in whose poem of the Excursion the
worthy clergyman is also noticed with the commendations due to his singular virtues. From this
memoir it appears that Walker was born in the parish of Seathwaite in 1709; that being of delicate
constitution, it was determined by his parents, whose youngest child he was, to breed him a
scholar; and that accordingly he was taught the elements of reading, writing, and arithmetic
by the clergyman of the parish, who also officiated as schoolmaster. He afterwards contrived
to acquire a knowledge of the classics; and, becoming in this manner qualified for taking holy
orders, was ordained, and appointed to the curacy of his native parish, which was at this time
(about the year 1735) of the value of five pounds per annum. On obtaining possession of this
living Walker married, his wife bringing him what he calls himself, in one of his letters,
"a fortune" of forty pounds. We must refer to Mr. Wordsworth's pages, and the documents which
will be found printed there, for a detail of all that the industry and economy of the curate
and his wife contrived to accomplish upon these scanty resources. Suffice it to say, that about
twenty years after Walker's entrance upon his living we find its value, according to his own
statement, increased only to the amount in all of seventeen pounds ten shillings. At a subsequent
period it received a further augmentation, to what amount is not stated; but it was not considerable.
One of his sons he afterwards maintained at the college of Dublin till he was ready for taking
holy orders. He was, like his predecessors in the same cure, schoolmaster as well as clergyman
of his parish; but "he made no charge," says his biographer, "for teaching school; such as
could afford to pay gave him what they pleased." His hospitality to his parishoners every Sunday
was literally without limitation; he kept a plentiful table for all who chose to come. Economical
as he was, no act of his life was chargeable with any thing in the least degree savouring of
avarice; on the contrary, many parts of his conduct displayed what in any station would have
been deemed extraordinary disinterestedness and generosity. Finally, at his death, in 1802,
he actually left behind him no less a sum than two thousand pounds.

There is in all this, as Mr. Wordsworth remarks, something so extraordinary, as to make some
explanatory details necessary. These we shall give in his own words.

       *       *       *       *       *

SACRIFICE OF A MORISCOE GIRL.

It would be unreasonable to expect analyses of Novel stories in a periodical sheet like our
Miscellany. We rarely attempt the task of giving them; but prefer giving occasionally a running
notice of a meritorious work of this class, and then leave the reader to indulge his taste
at the nearest library, upon the strength of our recommendation. To let him into the plot or
thread of the story would be ill-judged: for one of the greatest delights of reading, of all
ages, is to expect, hope, and despair, by turns, and thus become identified with the feelings
and actions of all parties concerned in the narrative. Every lover of novel, tale, and romance
must recollect the pleasure of reading Mr. Grattan's Highways and Byways, and how beautifully
the scenes and incidents were grouped in those little series of tales by the roadside. The
charming interest of one of them is worth a whole volume of lumbering history of a revolution
or royal line. Mr. Grattan, too, has taken all the Low Countries to himself, and the literature
of their life belongs to him. The other day he published a history of the Netherlands (noticed
in the last volume of the Mirror, page 257); and here we have him again, with The Heiress of
Bruges, a tale of the year 1600.

The main story needs not be told; but a scene may be easily detached, to show what spirit-stirring
scenes may be expected throughout the work. It needs only be premised that Beatrice, in our
extract, is the co-heroine of the Heiress of Bruges, and is sacrificed by the Inquisition in
Brussels:--

