    "When sinks the orb of day, a borrow'd light
    The moon displays, pale Regent of the night.
    Vain are her beams to bid the golden grain
    Spread plenty's blessings o'er the smiling plain;
    No power has she, except from shore to shore
    To bid the ocean's troubled billows roar.
    With hungry cries the wolf her coming greets;
    Then Rapine stalks triumphant through the streets;
    Avarice and Fraud in secret ambush lurk,
    And Treason's sons their desperate purpose work.
    But, lo! the Sun with orient splendour shines,"----
    &c. &c. &c.

We cannot indulge ourselves with any more of this loyal lucubration--we think that the slur
at the Regency was not quite fair; we were by no means aware that the moon was so mischievous;
and, as our general conclusion, we must admit that, if his lordship did not gain the Laureateship,
he amply deserved it. However, better times were at hand. Pitt, like all other eminent men,
had a keen insight into character, and he had long known the especial qualities of Addington.
This solves the difficulty of accounting at once for his continued personal intercourse, and
yet his apparent official neglect. He knew him to be well-informed, intelligent, and honest;
although his retiring habits had already given full evidence of his indisposition to face the
storms of party.

On Mr Grenville's promotion to the Home department, in 1789, Addington was proposed for the
Speaker's chair, and was elected by two hundred and fifteen to one hundred and forty-two, who
voted for the Opposition candidate, Sir Gilbert Elliot. In the private correspondence which
was so frequent between him and the minister, various suggestions had been thrown out by Pitt
of the Irish secretaryship, a seat at the treasury, &c. But the man and the place were now
found together, incomparably adapted to each other. The place implies an honourable neutrality,
and Addington was true to the trust. It requires the favourable opinion of the House to the
man as well as the officer; and Sheridan's first address to him, as the spokesman of the Opposition,
was, "we were all very sorry to have voted against you." It required considerable knowledge
of general and parliamentary law, and the new Speaker had devoted years to their acquisition.
Even the minor merits of a grave and commanding presence were there; for Addington, in his
early years, was of as striking a countenance and figure as in old age he was gentle and amiable.

Characteristic anecdotes are scattered through the volumes: these we think their most attractive
portion; and of such Addington's memory was full in his later years. One night, on his crying
out, in the usual form, to hush some chattering in the House, "Order, order, or I shall name
names!" Charles Fox, then standing beside the chair, told him that Wilkes once asked the Speaker,
Onslow, what would be the consequence of his naming names? "Heaven above only knows," was the
solemn reply.

One night Fox himself put the same question to Sir Fletcher Norton (the Speaker,) who nonchalantly
answered, "Happen! hang me, if I know or care!"

A substantial proof of the general approval was given to the new official, in the addition
of £1000 a-year to his salary; thus giving him £6000 a-year--which, besides a house, with some
other emoluments on public and private bills, and the sale of certain clerkships connected
with the business of the Commons, is generally calculated as equivalent to about £10,000 yearly.
For this, however, the Speaker is expected to keep up considerable state, to give occasional
banquets during the session to successive parties of the members; to have evening receptions
and levées; and, in general, to lead a rather laborious life; the least part of whose labour
is in the Speaker's chair. He has also the appointment of a chaplain to the House, which is
equivalent to the disposal of valuable church patronage, the chaplain being always provided
for, after a few years' attendance, by a request of the House to the crown. To complete this
accumulation of good things, the Speaker who exhibits intelligence, is frequently promoted
to the higher offices of the cabinet, and generally receives a peerage.

But those were the "piping times of peace;" times of trouble and terror were at hand. The French
democracy had already burst on Europe; and every throne was heaving on the surge which it had
raised. Pitt alone, of all the great ministers of Europe, seemed to disregard its hazards.
Customary as it is for the pamphleteers of later times to assail his memory, as the promoter
of hostilities, the chief outcry against Pitt in the year 1790, was his tardiness in thinking
that those hostilities could ever force England to take a share in the struggles of the Continent.
The whole aristocracy, the whole property, the whole mercantile interest, and even the whole
moral feeling of the empire, had become from hour to hour more convinced that a war was inevitable.
Even the Opposition, whose office it was to screen the atrocities of every national enemy,
and who, for a time, had looked to Jacobinism as an auxiliary in the march to power, had at
last shrunk from this horrible alliance--had felt the natural disgust of Englishmen for an
association with the undisguised vice and vileness of the Republic, and had at last sunk into
silence, if not into shame. Burke had published his immortal "Reflections," and their sound
had gone forth like the tolling of a vast funeral bell for the obsequies of European monarchy.
Still, nothing could move Pitt. By nature, a financier, and by genius the most magnificent
of all financiers, he calculated the force of nations by the depths of their treasuries; and
seeing France bankrupt, conceived that she was on the verge of conviction, and waited only
to see her sending her humbled Assembly to beg for a general loan, and for a general peace
at the same moment.

But those were days made to show the shortsightedness of human sagacity. The lesson was rapidly
given; it was proved in European havoc, that utter powerlessness for good was not merely compatible
with tremendous power for evil, but was actually the means of accumulating that power; that
the more wretched, famishing, and haggard a nation might become at home, the more irresistible
it might prove abroad: that, like the madman, it might be fevered and tortured by mental disease,
into preternatural strength of frame, and might spring out of the bed where it had lain down
to die, with a force which drove before it all the ordinary resistance of man. Pitt had still
to learn, that this was a war of Opinion; and had to learn also, that Opinion was a new material
of explosion, against whose agency all former calculation was wholly unprovided, and whose
force was made to fling all the old buttresses and battlements of European institutions like
dust and embers into the air.

It is not worth the trouble now to inquire, whether Pitt's sagacity equally failed him in estimating
the probable effect of the French Revolution on England. His expression at a dinner party,
where Addington, Grenville, and Burke formed the guests, "Never mind, Mr Burke, we shall go
on as we are until the day of judgment;" shows his feeling of the stability of the constitution.
As we have no love for discovering the

     "Fears of the brave, and follies of the wise,"

we are gratified by thinking that both were partly in the right: Burke, in regarding the Revolution
as destined to sweep the Continent with long and tremendous violence, and Pitt as believing
it likely to make but little permanent impression on the habits, the power, or the heart of
England. Burke argued from the weakness of the Continental governments; Pitt from the strength
of the British constitution: the former having no connexion with the national interests, the
latter being formed from those interests, for those interests, and being as much supported
by them as a tree by its roots. There was not a portion of that stately tree, from its solid
trunk to the highest ornament of its foliage, which was not fed from the ground. The truth
was, that the Jacobinisim of England was confined to adventurers, and never obtained any hold
on the great body of the proprietors and the people. Its spirit evaporated in tavern harangues,
to which the multitude went to listen, as to the chattering and grimaces of a mountebank.

No man of distinction, no man of birth, and no man of property was ever engaged in those coffee-house
conspiracies; their Jaffiers and Pierres were cobblers and tinkers, with a sprinkling of petty
pamphleteers, and ruined declaimers. When Hardy and Horne Took, were the priests, what must
be the worshippers at the Jacobin shrine? But in France, the temple of that idol of confusion
was crowded with the chiefs of the Noblesse, the Church, the Law; headed by the Prince of the
blood next to the throne; all stimulated by a ferocity of folly unexampled in the history of
infatuation, and all unconsciously urged to their ruin by a race of beings inferior in rank,
and almost objects of their scorn, yet, rather embodied malignities, and essential mischiefs,
than men. France in that fearful time reminded the spectator of Michael Angelo's great picture
of the "Last Judgment"--general convulsion above, universal torment below; the mighty of the
earth falling, kings, nobles, hierarchs, warriors, plunging down, and met by fiends, at once
their tempters, their taunters, and their torturers; a scene of desolation and destiny.

Pitt's sentiment on the safety of England from revolutionary movements was so decided, that
if France had not invaded Holland, and thus actually compelled a war, we should probably have
had none at this period.

A distinction between the state of France and England not less memorable, if not still more
effective, than in property, was religion. In France infidelity was not merely frequent, but
was the fashion. No man of any literary name condescended even to the pretence of religion;
but in England, infidelity was a stigma; when it began to take a public form, it was only in
the vilest quarter; and when it assailed religion, it was instantly put down at once by the
pen, by the law, and by the more decisive tribunal of national opinion. Paine, the chief writer
of the Satanic faction, was a bankrupt staymaker, and a notorious profligate: his pamphlet
had only the effect of making the public protest against its abominations; he was prosecuted,
was forced to leave the country, and finally died in beggary in America.

It is remarkable to find so cautious a man as Addington at this period speaking of the Church
as "an honest drone, who, if she did not stir herself very soon, would be stung by the wasps
of the conventicle." The metaphor is not good for much, for the drone can sting too, and does
nothing but sting. But what is it that, at any time, makes the church ineffective? The abuse
of the ministerial patronage. The clergy altogether depend on the guidance, the character,
and the activity of their bishops. If ministers regard the mitre as merely a sort of donative
for their own private tutors, or the chaplains of their noble friends, or as provision for
a relative, dependent, or the brother of a Treasury clerk, they not merely degrade the office,
but they paralyse the church. Of the living prelacy we do not speak: but it is impossible to
look upon the list of archbishops and bishops (a few excepted) during the last century, without
surprise that the inferior clergy have done so much, rather than that they have done so little.
Where there was no encouragement for literary exertion, ability naturally relaxed its efforts;
where preferment was lavished on heads "that could not teach, and would not learn," disgust
extinguished diligence; and where character for intelligence, practical capacity, and public
effect, were evidently overlooked in the calculation of professional claims, it is only in
the natural course of things that their exercise should be abandoned, in fastidiousness or
in contempt, in disgust or in despair. The church was never in a more ineffective condition
than at the close of the last century; and if the sin was to be laid at the right threshold,
it must have been laid at the door of Whitehall.

Addington certainly deserves the credit of having formed a just estimate of the French Revolution
from the beginning. In a letter to his brother he inserts this stanza,--

    "France shall perish, write that word
    In the blood that she has spilt;
    Perish hopeless and abhorr'd,
    Deep in ruin as in guilt."

He, however, fell into the common error of the time, and looked upon her overthrow as certain
in the first campaign.

It was on the second reading of the Alien Bill that the dagger scene, of which so much was
said at the time, occurred in the House of Commons--thus described by the Speaker: "Burke,
after a few preliminary remarks, the house being totally unprepared, fumbled in his bosom,
and suddenly drew out the dagger, and threw it on the floor. His extravagant gesture excited
a general disposition to smile, by which most men would have been disconcerted; but he suddenly
collected himself, and by a few brilliant sentences recalled the seriousness of the house.

As all partisanship hated Burke, who had trampled it in the mire, this dagger scene was sneered
at as a stage trick; but Burke was above all pantomime. The dagger was one which had been sent
from France to a Birmingham manufacturer, with an order for a large number of the same pattern:
and Burke had received it only on that day--and received it from Sir James Bland Burgess only
on his way down to the house--so that there could have been no preparation for public exhibition.
It was a natural impulse of the moment, in a time when all was emotion.

The murder of the unfortunate King of France, on the 21st of January 1793, perhaps the most
wanton murder in all royal history, instantly brought out a full display of the real feelings
of England. The universal sentiment was horror, mingled with indignation; and when the royal
message came down to the house on the 28th, stating that, in consequence of the regicide, the
king had ordered M. Chauvelin, minister from the late king, to leave the country, as being
no longer accredited by the sovereign, the message seemed rather the echo of the national voice
than the dictate of the government.

From this period the Whig party diminished day by day. They were chiefly the great landholders
of the kingdom, and they saw in this atrocious act a declaration against all property; but
they had also the higher motive of its being a declaration against all government. The chief
persons of the Opposition at once crossed the house; but as Horne Tooke, in his apt and short
style, described the party on his trial, "We all," said he, "entered the revolutionary coach
at Reading; but one got out at Maidenhead, another at Slough, a third at Hounslow, and a fourth
at Brentford. It was my misfortune, my lord, as it was also Mr Fox's, to go on to London."

The French now threw off all political form, and all diplomatic decorum, and exhibited the
whole savagism of republicanism. On the motion of a ruffian of the name of Garnier, the Convention
publicly resolved that "Pitt was an enemy to the human race." The same ruffian then proceeded
to move, "that every body had a right to assassinate him." This, however, was not carried;
but an order was sent, on the proposal of Robespierre, to the armies, that "no quarter should
be given to the English troops;" an order which was not repealed until his death by the guillotine.

Those were stirring times, and in every instance of success in the campaign, Pitt sent an immediate
courier to Addington when out of town, of which the Speaker gave the signal to the surrounding
country by lighting up his house. On one occasion of this kind, a friend of his, travelling
on the coach from Bath, heard the coachman say, "I'm sure there's good news come, for there's
the Speaker's house all in a blaze."

In this year Addington was offered the high promotion of Secretary of State, in the room of
Dundas. He consulted Huntingford, who strongly advised him against giving up his pleasant,
safe, and lucrative office, for the toilsome, hazardous, and unpopular office of the secretary.
A letter from the Solicitor-general Mitford, (afterwards Lord Redesdale,) confirmed the opinion.
It is justly observed by the biographer, that Mitford, who could be so wise for his friend,
was not equally so for himself; for, after having obtained the speakership in his own person,
he gave it up to assume the office of Irish Chancellor, a situation of great responsibility,
and great labour, in which he was assailed on all sides, and from which, on the first change
of the cabinet, he was insultingly recalled.

The war had now become almost wholly naval, and it was a war of successive triumphs. The dominion
of Europe seemed about to be divided between England and France: England mistress of the sea--France
sweeping every thing before her on the land. The famous battle of the 1st of June extinguished
the first revolutionary fleet, seven sail of the line being captured, and the remainder of
the fleet escaping with difficulty into the French ports.

The minister was also triumphant at home, and the chief persons of the Whig party were gazetted
as taking office under his administration. Earl Fitzwilliam as President of the Council, the
Duke of Portland as Secretary of State, Earl Spencer, Privy Seal, the Duke of Gordon, Privy
Seal of Scotland, and Windham, Secretary at War.

It had been frequently remarked, that Pitt never sought for coadjutors of any remarkable ability,
from confidence in his own extraordinary attainments. As Fox candidly and bitterly concluded
one of his speeches in Parliament, saying, "There is one point, and only one on which I entirely
agree with the right honourable gentleman, and that is, in the high opinion he entertains of
his own talents."

It is certain that those accessions to his cabinet were not likely to excite any jealousy on
his part, yet there was one whose absence from the cabinet may have been justly regretted as
detracting at once from the strength of the administration, and the glory of the minister.
The name of Burke was not found there, though no man had operated so powerfully in producing
the change; no man had so amply deserved the distinction; and no man would have thrown so permanent
a lustre round the councils in which he shared. There can be no doubt that Burke felt this
neglect, and that he was justified in feeling himself defrauded of an honour conferred before
his face on men who were not fit to be named in the same breath.

But he has had his noble revenge. Posterity, of all tribunals the most formidable, yet the
most faithful, has done him Justice. While the favourites of fortune have passed away into
the forgetfulness for which they were made, his services assume a higher rank in the records
of national preservation, and his genius continually fills a prouder place among the intellectual
triumphs of mankind.

In 1794 Burke closed his parliamentary career, by retiring from the borough of Malton, for
which his son became member. In this year, also, closed the memorable trial of Warren Hastings,
which had extended over ten sessions of parliament, (from February 1788 to 5th April 1795)--the
actual trial lasting for seven years, two months, and ten days. The legal expenses of the defence
amounted to seventy-one thousand and eighty pounds, which the proprietors of East India stock,
by a majority of three hundred, on a ballot, paid. What the expenses of the prosecution were,
is not told; probably twice the sum.

The whole holds forth an important lesson for the punishment of public delinquency. If, instead
of the masquerade of an impeachment before the peers and king, Hastings had been called on
to answer before the common law courts, for any one of the hundred acts of personal injury
alleged against him, the decision would have been secured as soon as the witnesses could have
been brought from Calcutta. Of course the world would have lost a great deal of parliamentary
parade and some capital speeches; all the poetic pomp would have been wanting; and the court-dresses
would have been left at the tailors. But justice would have been done, which no one now believes
to have been done.

The obvious fact is, that the country had grown tired of a trial which seemed likely to last
for life. After the first sounding of trumpets, the flourish excited curiosity no more. The
topic had been a toy in the great parliamentary nursery, and the children were grown weary
of their tinselled and painted doll. Even the horrors--and some of the details had all the
terrible atrocity of barbarism with its passions inflamed by impunity--had ceased to startle;
the eloquence of the managers had become commonplace by the repetition which had deprived the
horrors of their sting. The prosecution was yawned to death.

Perhaps there was not a peer in the seats of Westminster Hall, nor a member of the committee,
nor a man in the kingdom, except Burke and Pitt, who would not have forgiven Hastings twice
the amount of his offences, to have silenced the subject at once and for ever.

With Burke, the impeachment was a vision, half Roman, half Oriental--the august severity of
a Roman senate, combining with the mysterious splendour of the throne of Aurungzebe. He was
the Cicero impeaching Verres in the presence of the eighteenth century, or a high-priest of
some Indian oracle promulgating the decrees of eternal justice to the eastern world.

With Pitt, the whole event was a fortunate diversion of the enemy, a relief from the restless
assaults of a Whig opposition, a perpetual drain on Whig strength, and by a result more effective
still, a fruitful source of popular ridicule on the lingering impotence of Whig labours.

On the acquittal of Hastings, Burke wrote several letters to Addington as Speaker, which have
a tone of the deepest despondency. He writes in the impassioned anguish of a man to whom the
earth exhibited but one aspect of despair. They were letters such as Priam might have indited
on the night when his Troy was in a blaze. It was evident that the powerful genius of Burke
was partially bewildered by the bent of his feelings. He raised an imaginary sepulchre for
England on the spot where he had contemplated the erection of a dungeon for Indian crime through
all ages to come.

The Indian directors voted Hastings, an annuity of five thousand pounds, which he enjoyed to
a very advanced age: yet his acquittal has not received the seal of posterity. A calmer view
has regarded him as the daring agent of acts fitter for the meridian of Hindoo morality than
European. To serve the struggling interests of the Company seems to have been his highest motive,
and there can be no doubt that he served them with equal sagacity and success. That he was
a vigorous administrator, an enterprising statesman, and a popular governor, is beyond denial;
that he was personally unstained by avarice or extortion, is admitted. But history demands
higher proofs of principle; and no governor since his time has ever attempted to imitate his
example, or ever ventured to excuse his own errors, by alleging the conduct or the acquittal
of Hastings.

There are some men, whom no position can render ridiculous, and there are some quite the reverse:
of the latter class was Ferguson of Pitfour. Ferguson's notion of the essential quality of
a Lord Advocate was tallness. "We Scotch members," said he, "always vote with the Lord Advocate,
and we therefore require to see him in a division. Now I can see Mr Pitt, and I can see Mr
Addington, but I cannot see the Lord Advocate." His lordship evidently not rising to Ferguson's
regulation size of a statesman.

One evening as Ferguson was taking his dinner in the coffee-room, some one ran in, to say,
that "Pitt was on his legs." Every one rose to leave the room, except Ferguson. "What!" said
they, "won't you go to hear Mr Pitt?" "No," he replied, "Why should I? do you think Mr Pitt
would go to hear me?"

At a dinner given by Dundas, at Wimbledon, where Addington, Sheridan, and Erskine were present,
the latter was rallied on his not taking so prominent a part in the debates as his fame required.
Sheridan said (with a roughness unusual with him,) "I tell you how it happens: Erskine, you
are afraid of Pitt, and that's the flabby part of your character."

This piece of candour, however, was probably owing to the claret. But Erskine's comparative
taciturnity in the House may be accounted for on more honourable terms. Erskine was no poltroon:
he was the boldest speaker at the bar. But the bar was his place, and no man has ever attained
perfection in the two styles of oratory. It is true, that distinguished barristers have sometimes
been distinguished in the House of Commons, but they have not been of the race of orators;
they have been sharp, shrewd, bitter men, ready on vexatious topics, quick in peevish speech,
and willing to plunge themselves into subjects whose labour or license is disdained by higher
minds. But Erskine was an orator, vivid, high-toned, and sensitive; shrinking from the common-place
subjects which common-place men take up as their natural portion; rather indolent, as is common
with men of genius; and rather careless of fame in the senate, from his consciousness of the
unquestioned fame which he had already won at the bar.

Of Fox some pretty anecdotes are told, substantiating that eminent man's character for courtesy.
One day, as Addington was riding by the grounds of St Ann's Hill, he was seen over the palings
by Fox, who called out to him to stop, invited him in, and displayed the beauties of his garden,
to which he had always devoted a great deal of care. As Addington particularly admired some
weeping ash trees, Fox promised him some cuttings. Some months elapsed, when one evening, Fox,
after going through a stormy meeting, in Palace-yard, went up to the Speaker in the chair,
and said--"I have not forgotten your cuttings, but have brought them up to town with me," giving
him directions at the same time for their treatment. In a few minutes after, he was warmly
engaged in debate with Pitt and Burke.

Fox's enjoyment of St Ann's Hill was proverbial. On some one's asking General Fitzpatrick,
in the midst of one of the hottest periods of the debates on the French war--Where is Fox?
the answer was, "I daresay he is at home, sitting on a hay-cock, reading novels, and watching
the jays stealing his cherries."

