  They shall see what I can do, when ready,
    As Grand Old (Artillery) Man.
  Right, PARNELL! left, MORLEY! Now, steady!!!
    Stop! Just one last peep, whilst I can!
  I do hope, dear boys, there's no blunder;
    I think it is loaded all right.
  Are they horribly frightened, I wonder?
              Well, now for a sight!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD FRIENDS AND COUNSEL.

Our old friend MADDISON MORTON'S Box and Cox runs SHAKSPEARE'S works generally very near in
the matter of daily application. But fancy its being quoted as an authority by Sir HORACE DAVEY,
in his masterly reply to t'other side in the Bishop of LINCOLN'S case. Yet so it was. "Bishop
COSIN," said Sir HORACE, "had erroneously assumed that a letter had been written by CALVIN
to KNOX, whereas it had been really written to an Englishman named Cox." So it was a mistake
of the postman, after all, and it only wants the introduction of the name of Box to make the
whole thing perfect and satisfactory. "It will be within the recollection of the Court," Sir
HORACE might have continued, "that Cox was prevented from becoming the husband of PENELOPE
ANNE, relict of WILLIAM WIGGINS, Proprietor of Bathing Machines at Margate and Ramsgate, by
the sudden and totally unforeseen union of the lady in question with one KNOX, whose residence,
as the Musical Revised Version has it, was usually 'in the Docks'; and with this marriage of
PENELOPE ANNE WIGGINS with Mr. KNOX of the Docks, Messrs. BOX AND COX professed themselves
entirely and completely satisfied, as it is my earnest hope that Your Grace, and My Lords the
Bishops, will also be. And should this be the result, then I assure Your Grace that there will
not be a happier party sit down this night to supper than 'READ and others,' of which fact
you may take your Davey."

On the Learned Counsel resuming his seat, there would have been considerable applause, which,
of course, would have been instantly suppressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES "IN GLOBO."--Dorothy was long ago taken off the stage of the Prince of Wales's to make
room for Paul Jones. But another DOROTHY has recently reappeared at the Globe Theatre in the
pretty Shakspearian fairy-play entitled, A Midsummer Night's Dream, wherein DOROTHY DENE enacts
the part of Hippolyta. By the way, the lady who used to speak of that immortal work, Dixon's
Johnsonary, the other day referred to SHAKSPEARE as being "contemporaneous with that great
wit--dear me--what was his name?--who wrote Every Man in his own Humour--oh, I remember--JOHN
BENSON." Eminently satisfactory.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY TAILOR.

    "The St. Petersburgh tailors have hit upon an effectual device for
    obtaining payment of their bills. Immense black-boards are hung up
    in the most conspicuous place in the reception-room; thereon are
    chalked, in letters as big as arrow-headed inscriptions, the names
    of their hopelessly-indebted clients, and the amount of their
    indebtedness."

Daily Paper.

  Who always seemed serene and bland;
  Who never asked for "cash in hand,"
  Quite pleased that my account should "stand"?
                           My Tailor!

  Who catered for the gilded throng,
  Who chid me when my taste was wrong,
  Whose credit--and whose price--was long?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who chatted when I felt depressed,
  Who proffered wine with friendly zest,
  Whose weeds were ever of the best?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who with sartorial oil anoints
  My vanity, who pads my joints,
  And fortifies my weakest points?--
                           My Tailor!

  But who in future, much I fear,
  Will greet me with no words of cheer,
  But talk of "settling"--language queer?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who silently will point his hand
  To figures white on black-board grand.
  Where all my unpaid "items" stand?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who'll thus expose me to my peers,
  Bring on me jibes, and flouts, and sneers,
  Male sniggerings, and female tears?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who'll frown when I suggest a loan,
  And ne'er produce Clicquot or Beaune,
  But for his "checks" demand my own?--
                           My Tailor!

  Who'll take my "measures" when he wills,
  But only if I take his "bills,"
  And add one more to human ills?--
                           My Tailor!

       *       *       *       *       *

TAKEN AS YOU LIKE IT.

MY DEAR EDITOR,

It was most kind of you to ask me to go to the St. James's Theatre, the other evening, to see
Mrs. LANGTRY, after I had told you that since my recovery from the influenza, I had unfortunately
lost my memory. "Don't you know anything about As You Like It?" you asked. I pondered deeply,
and then replied, that I half fancied it was a GERMAN REED'S Entertainment, that would have
gone better had it included a part for Mr. CORNEY GRAIN. You told me I was wrong, but intimated
that my ignorance on the subject would make my notice the more impartial. So I went.

As to the play--was I pleased with As You Like It? Well, I have known worse, but I have seen
better. It seemed a mixture of prose and verse, with several topical allusions that appeared,
somehow or other, to have lost their point. For instance, a dull dog of a jester (played in
a funereal fashion by Mr. SUGDEN) stopped the action of the piece, for what seemed to me (no
doubt the time was actually less) some three-quarters of an hour, while he explained the difference
between the "retort courteous" and "the reproof valiant." The plot was as thin as a wafer,
but as it is, no doubt, generally known, I need not further refer to it. Mrs. LANGTRY was a
most graceful and pleasing Rosalind. She acted with an earnestness worthy of a better cause,
and afforded not a trace of the amateur. Of Miss VIOLET ARMBRUSTER as Hymen, I might say, with
a friend who spent several hours in knocking off the impromptu--

  TO A SEASONABLE VIOLET.

  Had always Hymen
    Such mien, such carriage,
  You ne'er would fly, men,
    The state of marriage!

Mr. LAWRENCE CAUTLEY, as Orlando, had an uphill part. At times (thanks to the author) he appeared
in situations that were absolutely ridiculous. For instance, he leaves an old retainer (capitally
played by that soundest of sound actors, Mr. EVERILL) dying of starvation, and, sword in hand,
appears at a pic-nic of the banished Duke, to demand refreshment. "I almost die for food, and
let me have it," says Orlando, and is welcomed by the Duke to his table. And what does Orlando
do? Does he seize the boar's head, or something equally attractive, and rush back to his fainting
servitor with the prize? Not a bit of it! He leisurely delivers fourteen lines of blank verse
about the "shade of melancholy boughs," "the creeping hours of time," and "blushing, hides
his sword!" In my neighbourhood happened to be one of the greatest advocates of our generation,
and I heard this legal luminary whisper, "while that fellow is talking, the old servant will
die of starvation," and the legal luminary was entirely and absolutely right. Adam would have
died of starvation while his garrulous master was posturing. A country wench called Audrey
was admirably impersonated by Miss MARION LEA, and the remainder of the cast was, on the whole,
satisfactory. Stay, it is only just that I should single out for special commendation Mr. ARTHUR
BOURCHIER, who played a character, to whom reference was frequently made as "the melancholy
Jaques," faultlessly. Here again the author committed an indiscretion. Jaques (by the way,
why was not Mr. SUGDEN'S rôle described as, "the more melancholy Touchstone?") is permitted
to stop the action of the piece to deliver some thirty lines commencing with the trite truism,
"all the world's a stage." Mr. BOURCHIER spoke his words with excellent discretion, but I cannot
help thinking that, in the cause of Art, the speech should have been cut out, and I have no
doubt, that Mr. BOURCHIER, as a true artist, will cordially agree with me.

And so, to quote Mrs. LANGTRY in the Epilogue, "farewell;" but in spite of what you have said
to the contrary, I am still of opinion, my dear Editor, that As You Like It must have been
originally intended for Mr. and Mrs. GERMAN REED'S Entertainment, minus Mr. CORNEY GRAIN.

  Sincerely Yours,
    A CORRESPONDENT WITHOUT A MEMORY.

       *       *       *       *       *

ART-AUCTIONEER'S RELIGION, "CHRISTIE-anity."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ASTRAL COMPLICATION.

  In periods of sleep, despair,
    Of aberration, we have guessed
  We were not altogether there,
    But seldom known where was the rest.

  Our Astral Bodies wander far,
    Whenever they will not be missed.
  Strange things in earth and heaven are
    For the devout theosophist.

  Young  WILFRID wooed the wealth of  CLARE;
    But ah, in spite of golden dearth,
  His mind and heart approved more fair
     KATE'S intellect and moral worth.

  "Prudence my steps inspire!" he said;
    And automatically to
  The residence of  CLARE he sped,
    And gained an instant's interview.

  "Fairest," he cried, "my homage deep
    Ah, not your rank, your wealth command!
  These idle baubles, lady, keep.
    Give me alone this lily hand!"

  "I will," she said. (The dinner gong
    That moment sounded.) "Haste away;
  But meet me in the social throng
    To-morrow--that is, Saturday."

  That self-same hour--the clock struck eight--
    In Holloway began to muse
  The charming and the gifted  KATE
    On logarithms most abstruse.

  Her door stood wide! Who entered there?
    'Twas WILFRID spoke in hollow tone.
  "With me life's logarithms share,
    KATE, that I cannot solve alone!"

  "I will," she answered. "But begone!
    Strange chaperons inspect, explore.
  The Principal, the stairs is on!"
    He sighed, and vanished from the door.

  Next eve, amid the social throng,
    Serene stood CLARE at WILFRID'S side;
  And dreaming not that aught was wrong,
    She gaily questioned and replied.

  Till WILFRID suddenly was 'ware,
    Close by, of a familiar face,
  And realised with wild despair
    All, all the horror of the case!

  "Oh, what is wrong?" cried CLARE in awe.
    Calmly, he answered. "It was He,
  My Astral Body, that she saw.
    Oh, which am I? Oh, woe is me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

EAST-ERN ART IN BOND STREET.--"So let the world jog along as it will, I'll be Japanese-y still!
Japanese-y, Japanese-y. I'll be Japanese-y still!" Can't help singing when we see Mr. EAST'S
pictures of Japan at the Fine Art Society's Gallery. This clever artist sojourned in that country
from March to September. He kept his eyes open and his hand ever busy, and has brought back
more than a hundred pictures--fresh, brilliant, and original. Such marvellous aspects of scenery,
such wealth of colour, such novelty do we behold, that we long to start off at once to Yokohama,
to Nikkô, to Hakone, to Tôkiyo, or any one of these delightful places--singing. "Let's quit
this cold climate so dull and Britannical, And revel in sunshine and colour Japanical!"

       *       *       *       *       *

PROBABLE PUBLICATION.--Companion work to Sardine and the Sardes, by the same author, to be
entitled Sardinia and the Sardines, illustrated in oils, and sold in tincases. Great reduction
(at lunch time) on taking a quantity.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT LINCOLN TRIAL STAKES.

Lambeth is in darkness. A Policeman with a bull's-eye prevents my driver's energetic endeavours
to drive through the Palace wall. I stumble into the large hall known as the Library. "Here,"
said I to myself, "is taking place the historic trial of the Bishop of LINCOLN." Archbishop
BANCROFT founded this library, so theatrical associations are natural. I can hear the voice
of JEUNE, Q.C., the JEUNE premier of this ecclesiastical drama.

They have commenced proceedings. In this, the Archbishop's Court, they, very properly, begin
with prayer. So does the House of Commons. "Any special form of orison?" I ask in a whisper
of the JEUNE premier, Q.C. "Yes," he answers in a subdued tone. "Look in your prayer-book for
'form of prayer to be used by those at sea.' That's it." Then he has to continue his argument.
But where's the Bishop of LINCOLN? Not among the Thames Policemen? Not in the Dock? Where?
Aha! I see him. I focus him. I sketch him. Veni, vidi, vici! I show result on paper to Official.
"Oh, no," he says; "that's not the Bishop, that's THINGUMMY," a Clerk of the Court, or something.
Hang THINGUMMY! Official disappears. Lights, ho! a link on Lincoln! I determine to find him.
The Bishops sit round three tables, on a raised platform. The Bishop of ROCHESTER sitting on
LONDON'S left, supplies the comedy element, so far as facial expression goes; his mouth is
wide open, and he holds some papers in front of him in an attitude which suggests that he will
presently break forth into song. But where, oh where, is the Bishop of LINCOLN? Ah, I see him.
I sketch him. I write his name under sketch, and show it to one of the Reporters. He scribbles
across it, "Wrong." I write, "Where is he?" He waves me away. I believe the Bishop is at the
other side of the long table, by his Counsel. There is a candle in front of him. I make my
way to the other side. I find the Bishop is an old lady! I write, "Where does the Bishop of
LINCOLN sit?" on a piece of paper, and take it to an Official. He cannot see to read it, so
some time is lost while he finds a convenient candle. He looks towards me, and points to a corner.

Good! At last! There is an old gentleman, in plain clothes it is true, but still otherwise
every inch a Bishop or a Butler, or perhaps both in one,--say Bishop BUTLER. I'll bide my time.
Are their Right Reverend Lordships engaged in writing their Sunday sermons?

But where is the Bishop? One o'clock! The Bishops rise for Lunch and Levée. "Where, oh where!
is the Bishop of LINCOLN?" I ask JEUNE premier. "Quick--I want to sketch him before he leaves!"

"The Bishop!" returns the First Ecclesiastical Young Man, smiling. "Oh, he never comes near
the place." Exit JEUNE premier. I appeal to the austere Sir HORACE DAVEY. "I can't tell you,"
says sir HORACE--"DAVEY sum, non OEdipus." And off he goes, to argue another sort of a case
about Baird language and the Pelican Club. He will say no more. On this occasion only, HORACE
is TACITUS. I do not find the Bishop, and quit Lambeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE DUC AND HIS BIG BILL.

The restaurateur evidently considered that he "didn't kill a pig every day," when he stuck
Le Petit Duc for this now historic bill, which, as given in full by the Figaro, Mr. Punch reproduces
here for general edification:--

    Un artichaut barigoule   12fr.
    Un châteaubriand         16 "
    1 sole                   10 "
    1 noix de veau           10 "
    1 homard                 25 "
    1 salade                  3 "
    1 caneton aux navets     25 "
    6 écrevisses             15 "
    Hors d'oeuvre             5 "
    Une assiette de fruits   16 "

Whenever it may be the lot of any distinguished Member of the Upper House to be sent to the
Tower of London, or a Member of the Lower to be shut up in the Clock Tower, the Provisional
Government for the time being will know what to charge for its provisions. The restaurateur
addressed his little account, "À Sa Magesté (sic) Louis Philippe-Robert ('ROBERT' was in it)
Duc d'Orléans." In styling Le Petit Duc "His Majesty" the artful restaurateur evidently had
in view a future restauration. The restaurateur, who expected to provide the young Duke of
ORLEANS with a second dinner, of course quoted SHAKSPEARE, and exclaimed enthusiastically--

    "I must go victual Orleans forthwith!"

Henry V., Part I., Act I., Sc. 5.

But the youthful Duc or Duckling wasn't to be caught and stuffed a second time.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SATURDAY SERIES.--"Hunters' Dams" was the heading of an article in last week's Saturday Review.
As the counter-jumper politely says, "What will be the next article?" We look forward with
interest to "Shooters' Swearings," "Anglers' Affirmations," "Coursers' Curses," and a few others
that may suggest themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL SOCIETY OF PAINTER-ETCHERS.--At the pleasant Gallery, 5A, Pall Mall East, is a good show
of needle-work. One of the most prolific contributors is a certain clever gentleman whose name
may possibly be familiar to some of our readers, one REMBRANDT VAN RHYN, who sends no less
than a hundred works.

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN TYPES.

(By Mr. Punch's Own Type-Writer.)

No. III.--THE YOUNG M.P.

For the proper production of the young M.P. there are many receipts, but only one is genuine.
Take a rickety boy, and provide him with a wealthy father, slightly flavoured with a good social
position and political tastes. Send him to a public school, having first eliminated as much
youthfulness as is compatible with continued existence. Add some flattering masters, and a
distaste for games. Season with the idea that he is born for a great career. Let him be, if
possible, verbose and argumentative, and inclined to contradict his elders. Eliminate more
youth and transfer hot to a University. Add more verbosity, and a strong extract of priggishness.
Throw in a degree, and two speeches at the Union. Set him to simmer for two years in a popular
constituency, and serve him up, a chattering pedant of twenty-four, at Westminster.

In the course of the contest which resulted in his return to the House of Commons, the young
M.P. will have tasted the sweets of advertisement by seeing his name constantly placarded in
huge letters on coloured posters. He will have been constantly referred to as "Our popular
young Candidate," and he will thus have become convinced that the welfare of his country imperatively
demands his immediate presence and permanent continuance in Parliament. When the genial butcher
who, besides retailing the carcases of sheep and oxen, sits in the Town Council, and presides
over one of the local political associations, declared, as he often has at other contests and
of other candidates, that never, in the course of his political career, had he listened to
more mature wisdom, adorned with nobler eloquence, than that which had fallen from "Our young
and popular Candidate," he was merely satisfying a burning desire for rhetorical expansion,
without any particular regard to accuracy of statement. But the candidate himself greedily
gulps that lump of flattery, and all the praise which is the conventional sauce for every political
gander. On this he grows fat, and being, in addition, puffed up by a very considerable conceit
of his own, he eventually presents an aspect which is not pleasing, and assumes (towards those
who are not voters in the Constituency) a manner which can scarcely be described as modest.

The majority of his Constituents regard him simply as an automatic machine for the regular
distribution of large subscriptions. He regards himself as a being of great importance and
capacity, and endowed with the power of acting as he likes, whilst the local wirepullers look
upon him as a convenient mask, behind which they may the more effectively carry on their own
petty schemes of personal ambition.

As a Candidate, moreover, the young M.P. will have discovered that the triumph of his party
depends not merely or even chiefly upon the due exposition of those political principles with
which he may have lately crammed himself by the aid of a stray volume of MILL, and a Compendium
of Political History, but rather upon the careful observance of local custom and local etiquette,
and the ceaseless effort to trump his adversary's every trick. He will thus have become the
President of the local Glee Club, the Patron of a Scientific Association, and a local Dog Show,
the Vice-President of four Cricket Clubs and of five Football Clubs, a Member of the Committee
of the Hospital Ball, and of the Society for Improving the breed of Grey Parrots; to say nothing
of the Guild for Promoting the happiness of Middle-aged Housemaids, and the local Association
for the Distribution of Penny Buns, at cheap prices, to the deserving poor. Moreover, before
he has discovered the true relation of benefit societies to politics, he will find himself
a Member of the Odd Fellows, the Foresters, the Hearts of Oak, the Druids, and the Loyal and
Ancient Order of Free and Accepted Buffaloes, with the right, conferred by the last-named Society,
of being addressed on lodge nights as if he were a Baronet, or, at least, a Knight.

Having thus met and shaken hands with the working-man during his hours of festive relaxation,
the young M.P. will be properly qualified for discussing those social questions which form
the chief part of every aspirant's political baggage. Being gifted with a happy power of enunciating
pompous platitudes with an air of profound conviction, and of spreading butter churned from
the speeches of his leaders on the bread of political economy, he will be highly thought of
at meetings of political leagues of either sex, or of both combined. It is necessary that he
should catch the eye of the Speaker during his first Session. He will afterwards talk to his
Constituents of the forms of the House in the tone of one who is familiar with mysteries, and
is accustomed to mingle on terms of equality with the great and famous. He will bring in a
Bill which an M.P. who was once young, has abandoned, and, finding his measure blocked, will
discourse with extreme bitterness of the obstruction by which the efforts of rising political
genius are oppressed.

In London Society the young M.P. may be recognised by an air of conscious importance as of
one who carries the burden of the State upon his shoulders, and desires to impress the fact
upon others. He may be flattered by being consulted as to the secret intentions of foreign
Cabinets or the prospects of party divisions. He will then speak at length of his leaders as
"we," and will probably announce, in a voice intended not so much for his immediate neighbours
as for the thoughtless crowd beyond, that "we shall smash them in Committee," and that "AKERS-DOUGLAS"
(or ARNOLD MORLEY, as the case may be) "has asked me to answer the fellows on the other side
to-morrow. I am not sure I shall speak," the MS. of his speech being already complete. On the
following day he will speak during the dinner-hour to an audience of four, and, having escaped
being counted out, will be greatly admired by his Constituents. He will assiduously attend
all social functions, and will not object to seeing his name in the paragraphs of Society papers.
It is not absolutely necessary that the young M.P. should be bald, but it is essential that
he should wear a frock-coat. It is well, also, that his dress should be neat, but not ostentatiously
spruce, lest the more horny-handed of his supporters should take umbrage at an offensive assumption
of superiority over those whose votes keep him in place.

Custom demands that the young M.P. should travel extensively, and that he should enlighten
his home-staying Constituents as to the designs of Barataria, the labour question in Lilliput,
and the prospects of federation in Laputa, by means of letters addressed to the local newspaper.
He will also interview foreign potentates and statesmen, and cause the fact to be published
through the medium of REUTER. On his return, he will write a book, and deliver a lecture before
the Mutual Improvement Society of the town he represents. He will then marry, in order that
he may attend Mothers' meetings by deputy, and cause his wife to make lavish purchases at a
local bazaar, which he will have opened. Shortly afterwards he will select an unpopular fad,
which certain members of his own party approve, and will take a vigorous stand against it on
principle, thus earning the commendation of all parties as a man of independent views, and
unswerving rectitude.

If, at a subsequent election, he should chance to be rejected at the poll, he will publicly
profess that he is delighted to be relieved of an uncongenial burden, whilst assuring his friends
in private that the country in which able and honest men are neglected must be in a very bad
way. He will, however, publish an address to the electors, in which he will claim a moral victory,
and will assure them that it will ever be one of his proudest memories to have been connected
with their constituency. He will spend his period of retirement on the stump, and, unless he
be speedily furnished with another Constituency, will entertain doubts as to the sanity of
his party leaders. Subsequently he will find himself again in the House of Commons, and, having
been spoken of as a young man for about a quarter of a century, will at last become an Under-Secretary
of State, and a grandfather, in the same year.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASTER SINGERS.--Sir,--In accordance with your request, I visited the Meistersingers' Club
(an institution which, seemingly from its name, has been established as a memorial to WAGNER),
where a "dramatic performance" was given last week that had many points of interest to the
languid pleasure-seeker, wearily thirsting for fresh sources of amusement. The evening's entertainment
commenced with a play obligingly described by the author as a farce, which was followed by
a new and original operetta, containing some very pretty music by Mr. PERCY REEVE, with the
exquisitely droll title of The Crusader and the Craven. The one lady and two gentlemen who
took part in this were, from a prompter's point of view, nearly perfect. Mr. R. HENDON as Sir
Rupert de Malvoisie (the Crusader) suggested, by his accent and gestures, that he must have
come from the East--how far East, it boots not to inquire. Miss FLORENCE DARLEY was a good
Lady Alice, and Mr. J. A. SHALE an efficient "Craven." Later on an operatic performance is
threatened. If the thrilling series of arrangements on the back of the Programme is to be accepted
as authentic, the members of the Club will be invited to have Patience. It would be difficult
to find a more appropriate accessory to a Night with the Meistersingers. No one asked me to
have any supper, Yours, A HAND AT CLUBS.