Far up the Mississippi and the Missouri the exploration of the country brings to light incontestable
proofs of the existence of the mysterious aboriginal race: wells artificially walled, and various
other structures for convenience or defense, are frequently seen; ornaments of silver, copper,
and even brass are found, together with various articles of pottery and sculptured stone; sepulchers
filled with vast numbers of human bones have often been discovered, and human bodies in a state
of preservation are sometimes exhumed. On one of these the hair was yellow or sandy, and it
is well known that an unvarying characteristic of the present red race is the lank black hair.
A splendid robe of a kind of linen, made apparently from nettle fibers, and interwoven with
the beautiful feathers of the wild turkey, encircled this long-buried mummy. The number and
the magnitude of the mounds bear evidence that the concurrent labors of a vast assembly of
men were employed in their construction.[226]

In the progress of early discovery and settlement, striking views were presented of savage
life among the Red Men inhabiting the Atlantic coast; but later researches along the banks
of the Mississippi and its tributaries, and by the great Canadian lakes, exhibited this people
under a still more remarkable aspect. The most prominent among the natives of the interior
for power, policy, and courage, were the Iroquois or Five Nations.[227] Their territory extended
westward from Lake Champlain, to the farthest extremity of Ontario, along the southern banks
of the St. Lawrence, and of the Great Lake. Although formed by the alliance of five independent
tribes, they always presented a united front to their foes, whether in defense or aggression.
Their enemies, the Algonquins, held an extensive domain on the northern bank of the St. Lawrence;
these last were at one time the masters of all that portion of America, and were the most polished
and mildest in manners of the northern tribes. They depended altogether for subsistence on
the produce of the chase, and disdained those among their neighbors who attempted the cultivation
of the soil. The Hurons[228] were a numerous nation, generally allied with the Algonquins,
inhabiting the immense and fertile territory extending westward to the Great Lake, from which
they take their name: they occupied themselves with a rude husbandry, which the fertile soil
of the west repaid, by affording them an abundant subsistence; but they were more effeminate
and luxurious than their neighbors, and inferior in savage virtue and independence. The above-named
nations were those principally connected with the events of Canadian history.

Man is less affected by climate in his bodily development than any other animal; his frame
is at the same time so hardy and flexible, that he thrives and increases in every variety of
temperature and situation, from the tropic to the pole; nevertheless, in extremes such as these,
his complexion, size, and vigor usually undergo considerable modifications.[229] Among the
Red Men of America, however, there is a remarkable similarity of countenance, form, manners,
and habits, in every part of the continent. No other race can show people speaking different
languages, inhabiting widely different climates, and subsisting on different food, who are
so wonderfully alike.[231] There are, indeed, varieties of stature, strength, intellect, and
self-respect to be found among them; but the savage of the frozen north, and the Indian of
the tropics, have the same stamp of person, and the same instincts.[232] There is a language
of signs common to all, conveying similar ideas, and providing a means of mutual intelligence
to every Red Man from north to south.

The North American Indians are generally of a fair height and proportion. Deformities or personal
defects[233] are rare among them; and they are never seen to fall into corpulency. Their features,
naturally pleasing and regular, are often distorted by absurd attempts to improve their beauty,
or render their appearance more terrible. They have high cheek bones, sharp and rather aquiline
noses, and good teeth. Their skin is generally described as red or copper-colored, approaching
to the tint of cinnamon bark, a complexion peculiar to the inhabitants of the New World. The
hair of the Americans, like that of their Mongolian ancestors, is coarse, black, thin, but
strong, and growing to a great length. Many tribes of both these races remove it from every
part of the head except the crown, where a small tuft is left, and cherished with care. It
is a universal habit among the tribes of the New World to eradicate every symptom of beard:
hence the early travelers were led to conclude that the smoothness of their faces resulted
from a natural deficiency. One reason for the adoption of this strange custom was to enable
them to paint themselves with greater ease. Among old men, who have become indifferent to their
appearance, the beard is again seen to a small extent.[234]

On the continent, especially toward the north, the natives were of robust and vigorous constitution.
Their sole employment was the chase of the numerous wild animals of the forest and prairies:
from their continual activity, their frame acquired firmness and strength;[235] but in the
islands, where game was rare, and the earth supplied spontaneously an abundant subsistence,
the Indians were comparatively feeble, being neither inured to the exertions of the chase nor
the labors of cultivation. Generally, the Americans were more remarkable for agility than strength,
and are said to have been more like beasts of prey than animals formed for labor. Toil was
hateful, and even destructive to them; they broke down and perished under tasks that would
not have wearied a European. Experience proves that the physical strength of civilized man
exceeds that of the savage.[236] Hand to hand in war, in wrestling, leaping, and even in running
for a short distance, this superiority usually appears. In a long journey, however, the endurance
of the Indian has no parallel among Europeans. A Red Man has been known to travel nearly eighty
miles between sunrise and sunset, without apparent fatigue. He performs a long journey, bearing
a heavy burden, and indulging in no refreshment or repose; an enemy can not escape his persevering
pursuit, even when mounted on a strong horse.

It has been already observed that the Americans are rarely or never deformed, or defective
in their senses, while in their wild state, but in those districts where the restraints of
law are felt, an extraordinary number of blind, deaf, dwarfs, and cripples, are observed. The
terrible custom among the savage tribes of destroying those children who do not promise a vigorous
growth, accounts for this apparent anomaly. Infancy is so long and helpless that it weighs
as a heavy burden upon a wandering people; food is scanty and uncertain of supply, hunters
and their families must range over extensive countries, and often remove from place to place.
Judging that children of feeble or defective formation are not likely to survive the hardships
of this errant life, they destroy all such unpromising offspring,[237] or desert them to a
slower and more dreadful fate. The lot of all is so hard that few born with any great constitutional
defect could long survive, and arrive at maturity.

In the simplicity of savage life, where labor does not oppress, nor luxury enervate the human
frame, and where harassing cares are unknown, we are led to expect that disease and suffering
should be comparatively rare, and that the functions of nature should not reach the close of
their gradual decay till an extreme old age. The decrepit and shriveled forms of many American
Indians would seem to indicate that they had long passed the ordinary time of life. But it
is difficult or impossible to ascertain their exact age, as the art of counting is generally
unknown among them, and they are strangely forgetful and indifferent to the past. Their longevity,
however, varies considerably, according to differences of climate and habits of life. These
children of nature are naturally free from many of the diseases afflicting civilized nations;
they have not even names in their language to distinguish such ills, the offspring of a luxury
to them unknown. The diseases of the savage, however, though few, are violent and fatal; the
severe hardships of his mode of life produce maladies of a dangerous description. From improvidence
they are often reduced for a considerable time to a state bordering on starvation. When successful
in the chase, or in the seasons when earth supplies her bounty, they indulge in enormous excesses.
These extremes of want and abundance prove equally pernicious, for, although habit and necessity
enable them at the time to tolerate such sudden transitions, the constitution is ultimately
injured: disorders arising from these causes strike down numbers in the prime and vigor of
youth, and are so common that they appear the necessary consequences of their mode of life.
The Indian is likewise peculiarly subject to consumption, pleurisy, asthma, and paralysis,
engendered by the fatigues and hardships of the chase and war, and constant exposure to extremes
of heat and cold. Experience supports the conclusion that the average life is greater among
people in an advanced condition of society than among those in a state of nature; among savages,
all are affected by circumstances of over-exertion, privation, and excess, but in civilized
societies the diseases of luxury only affect the few.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 200: "Driven by the European populations toward the northwest of North America,[201]
the savage tribes are returning, by a singular destiny, to expire on the same shore where they
landed, in unknown ages, to take possession of America. In the Iroquois language, the Indians
gave themselves the appellation of Men of Always (Ongoueonoue); these men of always have passed
away, and the stranger will soon have left to the lawful heirs of a whole world nothing but
the mold of their graves."--Chateaubriand's Travels in America (Eng. trans.), vol. ii., p. 93.]

[Footnote 201: De Tocqueville calculated that along the borders of the United States, from
Lake Superior to the Gulf of Mexico, extending a distance of more than 1200 miles, as the bird
flies, the whites advance every year at a mean rate of seventeen miles; and he truly observes
that there is a grandeur and solemnity in this gradual and continuous march of the European
race toward the Rocky Mountains. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 203: See Appendix, No. XLII. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 204: "Generally speaking, the American races of mankind were characterized by a want
of domestic animals, and this had considerable influence on their domestic life." (Cosmos,
note, vol. ii., p. 481.) Contrasting the Bedouin with the Red Indian, Volney observes, "the
American savage is, on the contrary, a hunter and a butcher, who has had daily occasion to
kill and slay, and in every animal has beheld nothing but a fugitive prey, which he must be
quick to seize. He has thus acquired a roaming, wasteful, and ferocious disposition; has become
an animal of the same kind with the wolf and tiger; has united in bands or troops, but not
into organized societies."]

[Footnote 205: On ne prit pas d'abord les Américains pour des hommes, mais pour des orang-otangs,
pour des grands singes, qu'on pouvoit détruire sans remords et sans reproche. Un pape fit une
Bulle originale dans laquelle il déclara qu' ayant envie de fonder des Evêchés dans les plus
riches contrées de l'Amérique, il plaisoit à lui et au Saint Esprit de reconnoitre les Américains
pour des hommes véritables; de sorte que, sans cette décision d'une Italien, les habitans du
Nouveau Monde seroient encore maintenant, aux yeux des fidèles, une race d'animaux équivoques....
Qui auroit cru que malgré cette sentence de Rome, on eut agité violemment au conseil de Lima,
1583, si les Américains avoient assez d'esprit pour être admis aux sacrements de l'Eglise.

"It can not be doubted that the greater part of the nations of America belong to a race of
men who, isolated ever since the infancy of the world from the rest of mankind, exhibit in
the nature and diversity of language, in their features, and the conformation of their skull,
incontestable proofs of an early and complete civilization."--Ibid., vol. i., p. 250.

On the American races in general, Humboldt refers to the beautiful work of Samuel George Morton,
Craniæ Americanæ, 1839, p. 62-86; and an account of the skulls brought by Pentland from the
Highlands of Titicaca, in the 'Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science,' vol. v., p.
475, 1834; also, Alcide d'Orbigny, L'Homme Américain considéré sous ses Rapports Physiol. et
Mor., p. 221, 1839; and, further, the work, so full of delicate ethnographical observations,
of Prinz Maximilian of Wied, Reise in das Innere von Nordamerika, 1839.]

[Footnote 208: "With regard to their origin, I have no doubt, independent of theological considerations,
but that it is the same with ours. The resemblance of the North American savages to the Oriental
Tartars renders it probable that they originally sprang from the same stock."--Buffon, Eng.
trans., vol. iii., p. 193.]

[Footnote 209: "The Ethiopians," sings the old tragedian, Theodectes of Phaselis, "are dyed
by the near sun-god in his course with a dark and sooty luster; the sun's heat crisps and dries
up their hair." The expeditions of Alexander, which were so influential in exciting ideas of
the physical cosmography, first fanned the dispute on the uncertain influence of climate upon
races of men. Humboldt's Cosmos, vol. i., p. 386. Volney, p. 506, and Oldmixon, vol. i., p.
286, assert that the savages are born white, and in their infancy continue so. An intelligent
Indian said to Volney, "Why should there be any difference of color between us and them? (some
Spaniards who had been bronzed in America). In them, as in us, it is the work of the father
of colors, the sun, that burns us. You whites yourselves compare the skin of your faces with
that of your bodies." This brought to my remembrance that, on my return from Turkey, when I
quitted the turban, half my forehead above the eyebrows was almost like bronze, while the other
half next the hair was as white as paper. If, as natural philosophy demonstrates, there be
no color but what originates from light, it is evident that the different complexions of people
are owing entirely to the various modifications of this fluid with other elements that act
on our skin, and even compose its substance. Sooner or later it will be proved that the blackness
of the African has no other source.--P. 408.

"Vespuce décrit les indigènes du Nouveau Continent dans sa première lettre comme des hommes
à face large et à physionomie tartare, dont la couleur rougeâtre n'étoit due qu'à l'habitude
de ne pas être vêtus. Il revient à cette même opinion en examinant les Brésiliens." (Canovai,
p. 87, 90.) "Leur teint, dit il, est rougeâtre, ce qui vient de leur nudité absolue et de l'ardeur
du soleil auquel ils sont constamment exposés. Cette erreur a été partagée par un des voyageurs
modernes les plus spirituels, mais des plus systématiques, par Volney." (Essai Politique sur
la Mexique.) Humboldt's Géog. du Nouv. Continent, vol. v., p. 25.]

[Footnote 210: On the influence of humidity much stress has been laid by M. D'Orbigny and Sir
R. Schomburgh, each of whom has made the remark as the result of personal and independent observation
on the inhabitants of the New World, that people who live under the damp shade of dense and
lofty forests are comparatively fair.]

[Footnote 211: See Appendix, No. XLI. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 212: Mr. Jarrold asserts that the negro becomes the most perfect specimen of the
human species, in consequence of his possessing the coarsest and most impassive integument.--Anthropologia.]

[Footnote 213: See Appendix, No. XLII. The savage and civilized man are like those animals
of the same species, several of which rove in the forest, while others connected with us share
in the benefits and evils that accompany civilization. The varieties of form and color are
frequent only in domestic animals. In the great family of nations, no other race unites these
advantages to a higher degree than that of Caucasus or the European. It must be admitted that
this insensibility of the features is not peculiar to every race of men of a very dark complexion:
it is much less apparent in the African than in the natives of America."--Humboldt's Personal
Narrative, vol. iii., p. 230.]

[Footnote 215: Tacitus, in his speculations on the peopling of Britain, distinguishes very
beautifully between what may belong to the ultimate influences of the country, and what may
pertain to an old, unalterable type in the immigrated race. "Britanniam qui mortales initio
coluerunt, indigenæ an advecti, ut inter barbaros, parum compertum. Habitus corporis varii,
atque ex eo argumenta; namque rutilæ Caledoniam habitantium comæ, magni artus Germanicam originem
adseverant. Among the early discoverers, Vespucius applies to them the epithet "rougeâtre."
Verazzano says, "sono di color berrettini e non molto dalli Saracini differenti."]

[Footnote 218: Cook's Narrative calls their color an effete white, like that of the southern
nations of Europe. Meares expressly says that some of the females, when cleaned, were found
to have the fair complexions of Europe.

Somewhat further north, at Cloak Bay, in lat. 54° 10', Humboldt remarks, that "in the midst
of copper-colored Indians, with small, long eyes, there is a tribe with large eyes, European
features, and a skin less dark than that of our peasantry."--New Spain, vol. i., p. 145.

Humboldt considers this as the strongest argument of an original diversity of race which has
remained unaffected by climate.]

[Footnote 219: See Appendix. No. XLV. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 220: Cochrane's Pedestrian Journey.]

[Footnote 221: Prescott remarks, that the progress made by the Mexicans in astronomy, and especially
the fact of their having a general board for education and the fine arts, proves more in favor
of their advancement than the noble architectural monuments which they and their kindred tribes
erected. "Architecture," he observes, "is a sensual gratification, and addresses itself to
the eye; it is the form in which the resources of a semi-civilized people are most likely to
be lavished."--Conquest of Mexico, vol. i., p. 155; Lyell's America, vol. i., p. 115.]

[Footnote 222: Dans les régions anciennement agricoles de l'Amérique méridionale les conquérans
Européens n'ont fait que suivre les traces d'une culture indigène. Les Indiens sont restés
attachés au sol qu'ils ont défriché depuis des siècles. Le Mexique seul compte un million sept
cent mille indigènes de race pure, dont le nonbre augmente avec la même rapidité que celui
des autres castes. Au Mexique, à Guatemala, à Quito, au Pérou, à Bolivia, la physionomie du
pays, à l'exception de quelques grandes villes, est essentiellement Indienne; dans les campagnes
la varieté des langues s'est conservée avec les moeurs, le costume et les habitudes de la vie
domestiqne. Il n'y a de plus que des troupeaux de vaches et de brebis, quelques céreales nouvelles
et les cérémonies d'une culte qui se mêlé à d'antiques superstitions locales. Il faut avoir
vécu dans les hautes plaines de l'Amérique Espagnole ou dans la conféderation Anglo-Américain
pour sentir vivement combien ce contraste entre des peuples chasseurs et des peuples agricoles,
entre des pays longtemps barbares ou des pays offrant d'anciennes institutions politiques et
une législation indigène très developpée, a facilité ou entravé la conquête, influé sur les
formes des premiers établissement européens, conservé même de nos jours aux différentes parties
de l'Amérique indépendante, un caractère ineffaçable. Déjà le père Joseph Acosta qui a étudié
sur les lieux mêmes les suites du grand drame sanguinaire de la conquête a bien saisi ces différences
frappantes de civilisation progressive et d'absence entière d'ordre social qu'offrait le nouveau-monde
à l'époque de Christopher Colomb, ou peu de tems après la colonisation par les Espagnols.--Hist.
Nat. y Moral. lib. vi., cap. ii.; Humboldt's Géographie du Nouveau Continent, tom. i., p. 130.]

[Footnote 223: See Appendix, No. XLVI. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 224: "In both Americas it is a matter of inquiry what was the intention of the natives
when they raised so many artificial hills, several of which appear to have served neither as
mounds, nor watch-towers, nor the base of a temple. A custom established in Eastern Asia may
throw some light on this important question. Two thousand three hundred years before our era,
sacrifices were offered in China to the Supreme Being, Chan-Ty, on four great mountains called
the Four Yo. The sovereigns, finding it inconvenient to go thither in person, caused eminences
representing these mountains to be erected by the hands of men near their habitations."--Voyage
of Lord Macartney, vol. i., p. 58; Hager, Monument of Yu, p. 10, 1802.]

[Footnote 225: Mr. Flint asserts, "that the greatest population clearly has been in those positions
where the most dense future population will be."--P. 166.]

[Footnote 226: "The bones of animals and snakes have sometimes been found mixed with human
bones in these tumuli, and out of one near Cincinnati were dug two large marine shells, one
of which was the Cassis cornulus of the Asiatic islands, the other the Fulgur perversus of
the coast of Georgia and East Florida; and this is an additional argument used in favor of
the alleged intercourse existing anciently between the Indians of this part of North America
and the inhabitants of Asia, and between them and those of the Atlantic. Many circumstances
still existing give probability to the popular belief that the American Indians had their origin
in Asia. In their persons, color, and reserved disposition, they have a strong resemblance
to the Malays of the Oriental Archipelago--that is to say, to some of the Tartar tribes of
Upper Asia; and it is a remarkable circumstance, that, like those, they shave the head, leaving
only a single lock of hair. The picture language of the Mexicans, as corresponding with the
ancient picture language of China, and the quipos of Peru with the knotted and party-colored
cords which the Chinese history informs us were in use in the early period of the empire, may
also be adduced as corroborative evidence. The high cheek bones and the elongated eye of the
two people, besides other personal resemblances, suggest the probability of a common origin."--Quarterly
Review, No. LVII., p. 13.

"The Iroquois and Hurons made hieroglyphic paintings on wood, which bear a striking resemblance
to those of the Mexicans."--Lafitau, vol. ii., p. 43, 225; La Houtan, p. 193.

"A long struggle between two religious sects, the Brahmans and the Buddhists, terminated by
the emigration of the Chamans to Thibet. Mongolia, China, and Japan. If tribes of the Tartar
race have passed over to the northwest coast of America, and thence to the south and the east,
toward the banks of Gila, and those of the Missouri, as etymological researches serve to indicate,
we should be less surprised at finding among the semi-barbarous nations of the New Continent
idols and monuments of architecture, a hieroglyphical writing, and exact knowledge of the duration
of the year, and traditions respecting the first state of the world, recalling to our minds
the arts, the sciences, and religious opinions of the Asiatic nations."--Humboldt's Researches.

In his description of a Mexican painting, Humboldt observes, "The slave on the left is like
the figure of those saints which we see frequently in Hindoo paintings, and which the navigator
Roblet found on the northwest coast of America, among the hieroglyphical paintings of the natives
of Cox's Channel."--Merchant's Voyage, vol. i., p. 312.

"It is probably by philosophical and antiquarian researches in Tartary that the history of
those civilized nations of North America, of whose great works only the wreck remains, will
alone be elucidated."--See Bancroft's History of the United States, vol. iii., chap. xxii.;
and Stephens's Central America, vol. i., p. 96; vol. ii., chap, xxvi., p. 186, 357, 413, 433.
See Appendix, No. XLVII. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 227: "The five nations were the Mohawks, the Oneidas, the Cayugas, the Onondagas,
and the Senecas. The Dutch called them Maquas, the French Iroquois; their appellation at home
was the Mingoes, and sometimes the Aganuschion, or United People."--Governor Clinton's Discourse
before New York Historical Society, 1811.

The Iroquois have often, among Europeans, been termed the Romans of the West. Leur nom propre
est Agonnonsionni, qui veut dire, Faiseurs de Cabannes; parcequ'ils les bâtissent beaucoup
plus solides, que la plupart des autres sauvages."--Charlevoix, tom. i., p. 421.

Lafitau gives the Iroquois the same name of Agonnonsionni; they used to say of themselves that
the five nations of which they were composed formed but one "Cabane."]

[Footnote 228: "Le Père Brebeuf comptoit environ trente mille âmes de vrais Hurons, distribués
en vingt villages de la nation. Il y avoit outre cela, douze nations sédentaires et nombreuses,
qui parloient leur langue. La plupart de ces nations ne subsistent plus, les Iroquois ces ont
detruites. Les vrais Hurons sont réduits aujourd'hui à la petite mission de Lorette, qui est
près de Quebec, où l'on voit le Christianisme fleurir avec l'édification de tous les Français,
à la nation des Tionnontatès qui sont établis au Détroit, et à une autre nation qui s'est refugiée
à la Carolina."--Charlevoix, 1721.

"The Tionnontatès mentioned above now bear the name of Wyandots, and are a striking exception
to the degeneracy which usually attends the intercourse of Indians with Europeans. The Wyandots
have all the energy of the savage warrior, with the intelligence and docility of civilized
troops. They are Christians, and remarkable for orderly and inoffensive conduct; but as enemies,
they are among the most dreadful of their race. They were all mounted (in the war of 1812-13),
fearless, active, enterprising; to contend with them in the forest was hopeless, and to avoid
their pursuit, impossible.

"It is worthy of remark, that the Wyandots are the only part of the Huron nation who ever joined
in alliance with the English. The mass of the Hurons were always the faithful friends of the
French during the times of the early settlement of Canada."--Quarterly Review.]

[Footnote 229: The extremes of heat and cold are as unfavorable to intellectual as to physical
superiority,[230] a fact which may be easily traced throughout the vast and varied extent of
the two Americas. "As far as the parallel of 53°, the temperature of the northwest coast of
America is milder than that of the eastern coasts: we are led to expect, therefore, that civilization
had anciently made some progress in this climate, and even in higher latitudes. Even in our
own times, we perceive that in the 59th degree of latitude, in Cox's Channel and Norfolk Sound,
the natives have a decided taste for hieroglyphical paintings on wood."--Humboldt on the Ancient
Inhabitants of America.

It has been ascertained that this western coast is populous, and the race somewhat superior
to the other Indians in arts and civilization.--Ramusio, tom. iii., p. 297-303; Venegas's California,
Part ii., §ii.

"From the happy coincidence of various circumstances, man raises himself to a certain degree
of cultivation, even in climates the least favorable to the development of organized beings.
Near the polar circle, in Iceland, in the twelfth century, we know the Scandinavians cultivated
literature and the arts with more success than the inhabitants of Denmark and Prussia."--Humboldt.]

[Footnote 230: The most temperate climate lies between the 40th and 50th degree of latitude,
and it produces the most handsome and beautiful people. It is from this climate that the ideas
of the genuine color of mankind and of the various degrees of beauty ought to be derived. The
two extremes are equally remote from truth and from beauty. The civilized countries situated
under this zone are Georgia, Circassia, the Ukraine, Turkey in Europe, Hungary, the south of
Germany, Italy, Switzerland, France, and the northern parts of Spain. The natives of these
territories are the most handsome and most beautiful people in the world.--Buffon, English
trans., vol. iii., p. 205.]

[Footnote 231: Mr. Flint says. "I have inspected the northern, middle, and southern Indians
for a length of ten years; my opportunities of observation have, therefore, been considerable,
and I do not undertake to form a judgment of their character without, at least, having seen
much of it. I have been forcibly struck by a general resemblance in their countenance, make,
conformation, manners, and habits. I believe that no race of men can show people who speak
different languages, inhabit different climes, and subsist on different food, and who are yet
so wonderfully alike."--(1831.)

Don Antonio Ulloa, who had extensive opportunities of forming an opinion on the natives of
both the continents of America, asserts that "If we have seen one American, we may be said
to have seen all, their color and make are so nearly the same."--Notic. Americanas, p. 308.
See, likewise, Garcia, Origin de los Indios, p. 55-242; Torquemada, Monarch. Indiana, vol.
ii., p. 571.

"If we except the northern regions, where we find men similar to the Laplanders, all the rest
of America is peopled with inhabitants among whom there is little or no diversity. This great
uniformity among the natives of America seems to proceed from their living all in the same
manner. All the Americans were, or still are, savages; the Mexicans and Peruvians were so recently
polished that they ought not to be regarded as an exception. Whatever, therefore, was the origin
of those savages, it seems to have been common to the whole. All the Americans have sprung
from the same source, and have preserved, with little variation, the characters of their race;
for they have all continued in a savage state, and have followed nearly the same mode of life.
Their climates are not so unequal with regard to heat and cold as those of the ancient continent,
and their establishment in America has been too recent to allow those causes which produce
varieties sufficient time to operate so as to render their effects conspicuous."--Buffon, Eng.
trans., vol. iii., p. 188.]

[Footnote 232: See Appendix, No. XLVIII. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 233: See Appendix, No. XLIX. Venet., p. 86, 1557; Humboldt's Personal Narrative,
vol. iii., p. 235.

"The Indians have no beard, because they use certain receipts to extirpate it, which they will
not communicate."--Oldmixon, vol. i., p. 286.

"Experience has made known that these receipts were little shells which they used as tweezers;
since they have become acquainted with metals, they have invented an instrument consisting
of a piece of brass wire rolled round a piece of wood the size of the finger, so as to form
a special spring; this grasps the hairs within its turns, and pulls out several at once. No
wonder if this practice, continued for several generations, should enfeeble the roots of the
beard. Did the practice of eradicating the beard, originate from the design of depriving the
enemy of such a dangerous hold on the face? This seems to me probable."--Volney, p. 412.]

[Footnote 235: When the statue of Apollo Belvedere was shown to Benjamin West on his first
arrival at Rome, he exclaimed, "It is a model from a young North American Indian."--Ancient
America.]

[Footnote 236: "It is a notorious fact, that every European who has embraced the savage life
has become stronger and better inured to every excess than the savages themselves. The superiority
of the people of Virginia and Kentucky over them has been confirmed, not only in troop opposed
to troop, but man to man, in all their wars."--Volney, p. 417.]

[Footnote 237: Yet infanticide is condemned among the Red Indians both by their theology and
their feelings. Dr. Richardson relates that those tribes who hold the idea that "the souls
of the departed have to scramble up a great mountain, at whose top they receive the reward
of their good or bad deeds, declare that women who have been guilty of infanticide never reach
the top of this mountain at all. They are compelled instead to travel around the scenes of
their crimes with branches of trees tied to their legs. The melancholy sounds which are heard
in the still summer evenings, and which the ignorance of the white people looks upon as the
screams of the goat-suckers, are really, according to my informant, the moanings of these unhappy
beings"--Franklin's Journey to the Polar Seas, p. 77, 78.]

CHAPTER VII.

The Indian is endowed with a far greater acuteness of sense than the European. Despite the
dazzling brightness of the long-continued snows, and the injurious action of the smoke of burning
wood to which he is constantly exposed, he possesses extraordinary quickness of sight. He can
also hear and distinguish the faintest sounds, alike through the gentle rustling of the forest
leaves and in the roar of the storm; his power of smell is so delicate that he scents fire
long before it becomes visible. By some peculiar instinct the Indian steers through the trackless
forests, over the vast prairies, and even across wide sheets of water with unerring certainty.
Under the gloomiest and most obscure sky, he can follow the course of the sun[238] as if directed
by a compass. These powers would seem innate in this mysterious race; they can scarcely be
the fruit of observation or practice, for children who have never left their native village
can direct their course through pathless solitudes as accurately as the experienced hunter.

In the early stages of social progress, when the life of man is rude and simple, the reason
is little exercised, and his wants and wishes are limited within narrow bounds; consequently,
his intellect is feebly developed, and his emotions are few but concentrated. These conditions
were generally observable among the rudest tribes of the American Indians.

