If they can avoid casualties, they die only of old age, and are buried in the obscurest places
that can be found, their friends and relations expressing neither joy nor grief at their departure;
nor does the dying person discover the least regret that he is leaving the world, any more
than if he were upon returning home from a visit to one of his neighbours.  I remember my master
having once made an appointment with a friend and his family to come to his house, upon some
affair of importance: on the day fixed, the mistress and her two children came very late; she
made two excuses, first for her husband, who, as she said, happened that very morning to shnuwnh.
The word is strongly expressive in their language, but not easily rendered into English; it
signifies, “to retire to his first mother.”  Her excuse for not coming sooner, was, that her
husband dying late in the morning, she was a good while consulting her servants about a convenient
place where his body should be laid; and I observed, she behaved herself at our house as cheerfully
as the rest.  She died about three months after.

They live generally to seventy, or seventy-five years, very seldom to fourscore.  Some weeks
before their death, they feel a gradual decay; but without pain.  During this time they are
much visited by their friends, because they cannot go abroad with their usual ease and satisfaction.
However, about ten days before their death, which they seldom fail in computing, they return
the visits that have been made them by those who are nearest in the neighbourhood, being carried
in a convenient sledge drawn by Yahoos; which vehicle they use, not only upon this occasion,
but when they grow old, upon long journeys, or when they are lamed by any accident: and therefore
when the dying Houyhnhnms return those visits, they take a solemn leave of their friends, as
if they were going to some remote part of the country, where they designed to pass the rest
of their lives.

I know not whether it may be worth observing, that the Houyhnhnms have no word in their language
to express any thing that is evil, except what they borrow from the deformities or ill qualities
of the Yahoos.  Thus they denote the folly of a servant, an omission of a child, a stone that
cuts their feet, a continuance of foul or unseasonable weather, and the like, by adding to
each the epithet of Yahoo.  For instance, hhnm Yahoo; whnaholm Yahoo, ynlhmndwihlma Yahoo,
and an ill-contrived house ynholmhnmrohlnw Yahoo.

I could, with great pleasure, enlarge further upon the manners and virtues of this excellent
people; but intending in a short time to publish a volume by itself, expressly upon that subject,
I refer the reader thither; and, in the mean time, proceed to relate my own sad catastrophe.

CHAPTER X.

The author’s economy, and happy life, among the Houyhnhnms.  His great improvement in virtue
by conversing with them.  Their conversations.  The author has notice given him by his master,
that he must depart from the country.  He falls into a swoon for grief; but submits.  He contrives
and finishes a canoe by the help of a fellow-servant, and puts to sea at a venture.

I had settled my little economy to my own heart’s content.  My master had ordered a room to
be made for me, after their manner, about six yards from the house: the sides and floors of
which I plastered with clay, and covered with rush-mats of my own contriving.  I had beaten
hemp, which there grows wild, and made of it a sort of ticking; this I filled with the feathers
of several birds I had taken with springes made of Yahoos’ hairs, and were excellent food.
I had worked two chairs with my knife, the sorrel nag helping me in the grosser and more laborious
part.  When my clothes were worn to rags, I made myself others with the skins of rabbits, and
of a certain beautiful animal, about the same size, called nnuhnoh, the skin of which is covered
with a fine down.  Of these I also made very tolerable stockings.  I soled my shoes with wood,
which I cut from a tree, and fitted to the upper-leather; and when this was worn out, I supplied
it with the skins of Yahoos dried in the sun.  I often got honey out of hollow trees, which
I mingled with water, or ate with my bread.  No man could more verify the truth of these two
maxims, “That nature is very easily satisfied;” and, “That necessity is the mother of invention.”
I enjoyed perfect health of body, and tranquillity of mind; I did not feel the treachery or
inconstancy of a friend, nor the injuries of a secret or open enemy.  I had no occasion of
bribing, flattering, or pimping, to procure the favour of any great man, or of his minion;
I wanted no fence against fraud or oppression: here was neither physician to destroy my body,
nor lawyer to ruin my fortune; no informer to watch my words and actions, or forge accusations
against me for hire: here were no gibers, censurers, backbiters, pickpockets, highwaymen, housebreakers,
attorneys, bawds, buffoons, gamesters, politicians, wits, splenetics, tedious talkers, controvertists,
ravishers, murderers, robbers, virtuosos; no leaders, or followers, of party and faction; no
encouragers to vice, by seducement or examples; no dungeon, axes, gibbets, whipping-posts,
or pillories; no cheating shopkeepers or mechanics; no pride, vanity, or affectation; no fops,
bullies, drunkards, strolling whores, or poxes; no ranting, lewd, expensive wives; no stupid,
proud pedants; no importunate, overbearing, quarrelsome, noisy, roaring, empty, conceited,
swearing companions; no scoundrels raised from the dust upon the merit of their vices, or nobility
thrown into it on account of their virtues; no lords, fiddlers, judges, or dancing-masters.

I had the favour of being admitted to several Houyhnhnms, who came to visit or dine with my
master; where his honour graciously suffered me to wait in the room, and listen to their discourse.
Both he and his company would often descend to ask me questions, and receive my answers.  I
had also sometimes the honour of attending my master in his visits to others. I never presumed
to speak, except in answer to a question; and then I did it with inward regret, because it
was a loss of so much time for improving myself; but I was infinitely delighted with the station
of an humble auditor in such conversations, where nothing passed but what was useful, expressed
in the fewest and most significant words; where, as I have already said, the greatest decency
was observed, without the least degree of ceremony; where no person spoke without being pleased
himself, and pleasing his companions; where there was no interruption, tediousness, heat, or
difference of sentiments.  They have a notion, that when people are met together, a short silence
does much improve conversation: this I found to be true; for during those little intermissions
of talk, new ideas would arise in their minds, which very much enlivened the discourse.  Their
subjects are, generally on friendship and benevolence, on order and economy; sometimes upon
the visible operations of nature, or ancient traditions; upon the bounds and limits of virtue;
upon the unerring rules of reason, or upon some determinations to be taken at the next great
assembly: and often upon the various excellences of poetry.  I may add, without vanity, that
my presence often gave them sufficient matter for discourse, because it afforded my master
an occasion of letting his friends into the history of me and my country, upon which they were
all pleased to descant, in a manner not very advantageous to humankind: and for that reason
I shall not repeat what they said; only I may be allowed to observe, that his honour, to my
great admiration, appeared to understand the nature of Yahoos much better than myself.  He
went through all our vices and follies, and discovered many, which I had never mentioned to
him, by only supposing what qualities a Yahoo of their country, with a small proportion of
reason, might be capable of exerting; and concluded, with too much probability, “how vile,
as well as miserable, such a creature must be.”

I freely confess, that all the little knowledge I have of any value, was acquired by the lectures
I received from my master, and from hearing the discourses of him and his friends; to which
I should be prouder to listen, than to dictate to the greatest and wisest assembly in Europe.
I admired the strength, comeliness, and speed of the inhabitants; and such a constellation
of virtues, in such amiable persons, produced in me the highest veneration.  At first, indeed,
I did not feel that natural awe, which the Yahoos and all other animals bear toward them; but
it grew upon me by decrees, much sooner than I imagined, and was mingled with a respectful
love and gratitude, that they would condescend to distinguish me from the rest of my species.

When I thought of my family, my friends, my countrymen, or the human race in general, I considered
them, as they really were, Yahoos in shape and disposition, perhaps a little more civilized,
and qualified with the gift of speech; but making no other use of reason, than to improve and
multiply those vices whereof their brethren in this country had only the share that nature
allotted them.  When I happened to behold the reflection of my own form in a lake or fountain,
I turned away my face in horror and detestation of myself, and could better endure the sight
of a common Yahoo than of my own person.  By conversing with the Houyhnhnms, and looking upon
them with delight, I fell to imitate their gait and gesture, which is now grown into a habit;
and my friends often tell me, in a blunt way, “that I trot like a horse;” which, however, I
take for a great compliment.  Neither shall I disown, that in speaking I am apt to fall into
the voice and manner of the Houyhnhnms, and hear myself ridiculed on that account, without
the least mortification.

In the midst of all this happiness, and when I looked upon myself to be fully settled for life,
my master sent for me one morning a little earlier than his usual hour.  I observed by his
countenance that he was in some perplexity, and at a loss how to begin what he had to speak.
After a short silence, he told me, “he did not know how I would take what he was going to say:
that in the last general assembly, when the affair of the Yahoos was entered upon, the representatives
had taken offence at his keeping a Yahoo (meaning myself) in his family, more like a Houyhnhnm
than a brute animal; that he was known frequently to converse with me, as if he could receive
some advantage or pleasure in my company; that such a practice was not agreeable to reason
or nature, or a thing ever heard of before among them; the assembly did therefore exhort him
either to employ me like the rest of my species, or command me to swim back to the place whence
I came: that the first of these expedients was utterly rejected by all the Houyhnhnms who had
ever seen me at his house or their own; for they alleged, that because I had some rudiments
of reason, added to the natural pravity of those animals, it was to be feared I might be able
to seduce them into the woody and mountainous parts of the country, and bring them in troops
by night to destroy the Houyhnhnms’ cattle, as being naturally of the ravenous kind, and averse
from labour.”

My master added, “that he was daily pressed by the Houyhnhnms of the neighbourhood to have
the assembly’s exhortation executed, which he could not put off much longer.  He doubted it
would be impossible for me to swim to another country; and therefore wished I would contrive
some sort of vehicle, resembling those I had described to him, that might carry me on the sea;
in which work I should have the assistance of his own servants, as well as those of his neighbours.”
He concluded, “that for his own part, he could have been content to keep me in his service
as long as I lived; because he found I had cured myself of some bad habits and dispositions,
by endeavouring, as far as my inferior nature was capable, to imitate the Houyhnhnms.”

I should here observe to the reader, that a decree of the general assembly in this country
is expressed by the word hnhloayn, which signifies an exhortation, as near as I can render
it; for they have no conception how a rational creature can be compelled, but only advised,
or exhorted; because no person can disobey reason, without giving up his claim to be a rational
creature.

I was struck with the utmost grief and despair at my master’s discourse; and being unable to
support the agonies I was under, I fell into a swoon at his feet.  When I came to myself, he
told me “that he concluded I had been dead;” for these people are subject to no such imbecilities
of nature.  I answered in a faint voice, “that death would have been too great a happiness;
that although I could not blame the assembly’s exhortation, or the urgency of his friends;
yet, in my weak and corrupt judgment, I thought it might consist with reason to have been less
rigorous; that I could not swim a league, and probably the nearest land to theirs might be
distant above a hundred: that many materials, necessary for making a small vessel to carry
me off, were wholly wanting in this country; which, however, I would attempt, in obedience
and gratitude to his honour, although I concluded the thing to be impossible, and therefore
looked on myself as already devoted to destruction; that the certain prospect of an unnatural
death was the least of my evils; for, supposing I should escape with life by some strange adventure,
how could I think with temper of passing my days among Yahoos, and relapsing into my old corruptions,
for want of examples to lead and keep me within the paths of virtue? that I knew too well upon
what solid reasons all the determinations of the wise Houyhnhnms were founded, not to be shaken
by arguments of mine, a miserable Yahoo; and therefore, after presenting him with my humble
thanks for the offer of his servants’ assistance in making a vessel, and desiring a reasonable
time for so difficult a work, I told him I would endeavour to preserve a wretched being; and
if ever I returned to England, was not without hopes of being useful to my own species, by
celebrating the praises of the renowned Houyhnhnms, and proposing their virtues to the imitation
of mankind.”

My master, in a few words, made me a very gracious reply; allowed me the space of two months
to finish my boat; and ordered the sorrel nag, my fellow-servant (for so, at this distance,
I may presume to call him), to follow my instruction; because I told my master, “that his help
would be sufficient, and I knew he had a tenderness for me.”

In his company, my first business was to go to that part of the coast where my rebellious crew
had ordered me to be set on shore.  I got upon a height, and looking on every side into the
sea; fancied I saw a small island toward the north-east.  I took out my pocket glass, and could
then clearly distinguish it above five leagues off, as I computed; but it appeared to the sorrel
nag to be only a blue cloud: for as he had no conception of any country beside his own, so
he could not be as expert in distinguishing remote objects at sea, as we who so much converse
in that element.

After I had discovered this island, I considered no further; but resolved it should if possible,
be the first place of my banishment, leaving the consequence to fortune.

I returned home, and consulting with the sorrel nag, we went into a copse at some distance,
where I with my knife, and he with a sharp flint, fastened very artificially after their manner,
to a wooden handle, cut down several oak wattles, about the thickness of a walking-staff, and
some larger pieces.  But I shall not trouble the reader with a particular description of my
own mechanics; let it suffice to say, that in six weeks time with the help of the sorrel nag,
who performed the parts that required most labour, I finished a sort of Indian canoe, but much
larger, covering it with the skins of Yahoos, well stitched together with hempen threads of
my own making.  My sail was likewise composed of the skins of the same animal; but I made use
of the youngest I could get, the older being too tough and thick; and I likewise provided myself
with four paddles.  I laid in a stock of boiled flesh, of rabbits and fowls, and took with
me two vessels, one filled with milk and the other with water.

I tried my canoe in a large pond, near my master’s house, and then corrected in it what was
amiss; stopping all the chinks with Yahoos’ tallow, till I found it staunch, and able to bear
me and my freight; and, when it was as complete as I could possibly make it, I had it drawn
on a carriage very gently by Yahoos to the sea-side, under the conduct of the sorrel nag and
another servant.

When all was ready, and the day came for my departure, I took leave of my master and lady and
the whole family, my eyes flowing with tears, and my heart quite sunk with grief.  But his
honour, out of curiosity, and, perhaps, (if I may speak without vanity,) partly out of kindness,
was determined to see me in my canoe, and got several of his neighbouring friends to accompany him.

I paid my respects to the rest of the Houyhnhnms in his honour’s company; then getting into
my canoe, I pushed off from shore.

CHAPTER XI.

The author’s dangerous voyage.  He arrives at New Holland, hoping to settle there.  Is wounded
with an arrow by one of the natives.  Is seized and carried by force into a Portuguese ship.
The great civilities of the captain.  The author arrives at England.

I began this desperate voyage on February 15, 1714–15, at nine o’clock in the morning.  The
wind was very favourable; however, I made use at first only of my paddles; but considering
I should soon be weary, and that the wind might chop about, I ventured to set up my little
sail; and thus, with the help of the tide, I went at the rate of a league and a half an hour,
as near as I could guess.  My master and his friends continued on the shore till I was almost
out of sight; and I often heard the sorrel nag (who always loved me) crying out, “Hnuy illa
nyha, majah Yahoo;” “Take care of thyself, gentle Yahoo.”

My design was, if possible, to discover some small island uninhabited, yet sufficient, by my
labour, to furnish me with the necessaries of life, which I would have thought a greater happiness,
than to be first minister in the politest court of Europe; so horrible was the idea I conceived
of returning to live in the society, and under the government of Yahoos. For in such a solitude
as I desired, I could at least enjoy my own thoughts, and reflect with delight on the virtues
of those inimitable Houyhnhnms, without an opportunity of degenerating into the vices and corruptions
of my own species.

The reader may remember what I related, when my crew conspired against me, and confined me
to my cabin; how I continued there several weeks without knowing what course we took; and when
I was put ashore in the long-boat, how the sailors told me, with oaths, whether true or false,
“that they knew not in what part of the world we were.”  However, I did then believe us to
be about 10 degrees southward of the Cape of Good Hope, or about 45 degrees southern latitude,
as I gathered from some general words I overheard among them, being I supposed to the south-east
in their intended voyage to Madagascar.  And although this were little better than conjecture,
yet I resolved to steer my course eastward, hoping to reach the south-west coast of New Holland,
and perhaps some such island as I desired lying westward of it.  The wind was full west, and
by six in the evening I computed I had gone eastward at least eighteen leagues; when I spied
a very small island about half a league off, which I soon reached.  It was nothing but a rock,
with one creek naturally arched by the force of tempests.  Here I put in my canoe, and climbing
a part of the rock, I could plainly discover land to the east, extending from south to north.
I lay all night in my canoe; and repeating my voyage early in the morning, I arrived in seven
hours to the south-east point of New Holland.  This confirmed me in the opinion I have long
entertained, that the maps and charts place this country at least three degrees more to the
east than it really is; which thought I communicated many years ago to my worthy friend, Mr.
Herman Moll, and gave him my reasons for it, although he has rather chosen to follow other authors.

I saw no inhabitants in the place where I landed, and being unarmed, I was afraid of venturing
far into the country.  I found some shellfish on the shore, and ate them raw, not daring to
kindle a fire, for fear of being discovered by the natives.  I continued three days feeding
on oysters and limpets, to save my own provisions; and I fortunately found a brook of excellent
water, which gave me great relief.

On the fourth day, venturing out early a little too far, I saw twenty or thirty natives upon
a height not above five hundred yards from me.  They were stark naked, men, women, and children,
round a fire, as I could discover by the smoke.  One of them spied me, and gave notice to the
rest; five of them advanced toward me, leaving the women and children at the fire.  I made
what haste I could to the shore, and, getting into my canoe, shoved off: the savages, observing
me retreat, ran after me: and before I could get far enough into the sea, discharged an arrow
which wounded me deeply on the inside of my left knee: I shall carry the mark to my grave.
I apprehended the arrow might be poisoned, and paddling out of the reach of their darts (being
a calm day), I made a shift to suck the wound, and dress it as well as I could.

I was at a loss what to do, for I durst not return to the same landing-place, but stood to
the north, and was forced to paddle, for the wind, though very gentle, was against me, blowing
north-west.  As I was looking about for a secure landing-place, I saw a sail to the north-north-east,
which appearing every minute more visible, I was in some doubt whether I should wait for them
or not; but at last my detestation of the Yahoo race prevailed: and turning my canoe, I sailed
and paddled together to the south, and got into the same creek whence I set out in the morning,
choosing rather to trust myself among these barbarians, than live with European Yahoos.  I
drew up my canoe as close as I could to the shore, and hid myself behind a stone by the little
brook, which, as I have already said, was excellent water.

The ship came within half a league of this creek, and sent her long boat with vessels to take
in fresh water (for the place, it seems, was very well known); but I did not observe it, till
the boat was almost on shore; and it was too late to seek another hiding-place.  The seamen
at their landing observed my canoe, and rummaging it all over, easily conjectured that the
owner could not be far off.  Four of them, well armed, searched every cranny and lurking-hole,
till at last they found me flat on my face behind the stone.  They gazed awhile in admiration
at my strange uncouth dress; my coat made of skins, my wooden-soled shoes, and my furred stockings;
whence, however, they concluded, I was not a native of the place, who all go naked.  One of
the seamen, in Portuguese, bid me rise, and asked who I was.  I understood that language very
well, and getting upon my feet, said, “I was a poor Yahoo banished from the Houyhnhnms, and
desired they would please to let me depart.”  They admired to hear me answer them in their
own tongue, and saw by my complexion I must be a European; but were at a loss to know what
I meant by Yahoos and Houyhnhnms; and at the same time fell a-laughing at my strange tone in
speaking, which resembled the neighing of a horse.  I trembled all the while betwixt fear and
hatred.  I again desired leave to depart, and was gently moving to my canoe; but they laid
hold of me, desiring to know, “what country I was of? whence I came?” with many other questions.
I told them “I was born in England, whence I came about five years ago, and then their country
and ours were at peace.  I therefore hoped they would not treat me as an enemy, since I meant
them no harm, but was a poor Yahoo seeking some desolate place where to pass the remainder
of his unfortunate life.”

When they began to talk, I thought I never heard or saw any thing more unnatural; for it appeared
to me as monstrous as if a dog or a cow should speak in England, or a Yahoo in Houyhnhnmland.
The honest Portuguese were equally amazed at my strange dress, and the odd manner of delivering
my words, which, however, they understood very well.  They spoke to me with great humanity,
and said, “they were sure the captain would carry me gratis to Lisbon, whence I might return
to my own country; that two of the seamen would go back to the ship, inform the captain of
what they had seen, and receive his orders; in the mean time, unless I would give my solemn
oath not to fly, they would secure me by force.  I thought it best to comply with their proposal.
They were very curious to know my story, but I gave them very little satisfaction, and they
all conjectured that my misfortunes had impaired my reason.  In two hours the boat, which went
laden with vessels of water, returned, with the captain’s command to fetch me on board.  I
fell on my knees to preserve my liberty; but all was in vain; and the men, having tied me with
cords, heaved me into the boat, whence I was taken into the ship, and thence into the captain’s
cabin.

His name was Pedro de Mendez; he was a very courteous and generous person.  He entreated me
to give some account of myself, and desired to know what I would eat or drink; said, “I should
be used as well as himself;” and spoke so many obliging things, that I wondered to find such
civilities from a Yahoo.  However, I remained silent and sullen; I was ready to faint at the
very smell of him and his men.  At last I desired something to eat out of my own canoe; but
he ordered me a chicken, and some excellent wine, and then directed that I should be put to
bed in a very clean cabin.  I would not undress myself, but lay on the bed-clothes, and in
half an hour stole out, when I thought the crew was at dinner, and getting to the side of the
ship, was going to leap into the sea, and swim for my life, rather than continue among Yahoos.
But one of the seamen prevented me, and having informed the captain, I was chained to my cabin.

