     Not only the Freud theory of psycho-analysis but a considerable
     quantity of pseudo-scientific propaganda of that type has for years
     been emanating from a group of German Jews who live and have their
     headquarters in Vienna. From its inception, psycho-analysis has
     been in Jewish hands. There are not half a dozen physicians in the
     whole world, recognized as authorities in this field, whose names
     are identified with this movement who are not Jews. This may have
     been an accident, but nevertheless it is a fact.[853]

I have already referred in an earlier chapter to the question of degenerate art defined in
a circular to the New York Herald as "the deification of ugliness."[854] The originators of
this cult are here described as a group of Satan worshippers in Paris, and the dealers by whom
the movement was propagated as "Germans," but we note amongst the lenders to the exhibition
at which these "works of art" were displayed several Jewish names. Of one well-known Jewish
artist a critic has written:

     Were these works the product of a man who had imperfect control
     over his material, who, in stumbling towards the light, dwelt
     inevitably upon much darkness, who sought for beauty and found
     ugliness, who looked for purity and found filth--even then one
     might be silent and hope for better things to come. But here,
     apparently, unless my whole reading is ludicrously wrong, he
     delights in deformity and glories in degradation.... He brings to
     the world of art a new gospel, a black gospel, a gospel in which
     everything is to be inverted and distorted. Whatsoever things are
     hideous, whatsoever things are of evil report, whatsoever things
     are sordid: if there be any unhealthiness or any degradation: think
     on these things. An organ of the Jewish press, with that sense of solidarity
which always rallies Jews to the defence of their compatriots however
culpable, immediately detects in the critic's expression of opinion the
insidious work of "anti-Semitism." A more enlightened Jew, Mr. Frank L.
Emanuel, however, having come to the support of the Gentile critic, the
Jewish journal is obliged to admit the justice of his contention that
"it is lamentable to think of the undue proportion of young Jews" who
"have joined the Revolutionary or sham 'Modern Art' movement in this
country."

The same influence will be noticed in the cinema world, where, as has already been pointed
out, history is systematically falsified in the interests of class hatred, and everything that
can tend, whilst keeping within the present law, to undermine patriotism or morality is pressed
upon the public. And the cinema trade is almost entirely in the hands of the Jews.

In the drug traffic Jews are playing a prominent part both here and in America. An eminent
New York doctor writes to me as follows:

     Members of the Federal narcotic squad attached to the Treasury
     Department and having the function of enforcing the provisions of
     the Harrison Act have long been convinced that there is a direct
     relationship between Radicalism and narcotism. From seven to ten
     years ago this was thought to be a manifestation of pan-German
     propaganda. Activity was and still is greater on the part of the
     distributors and pedlars than is to be accounted for by the large
     profits, according to their story. Curiously enough, the traffic
     largely stopped for several weeks following the signing of the
     Armistice.

     In one instance, seven regularly licensed physicians of the "East
     Side," all Jews, were arrested in succession during the summer of
     1920 for illegitimate use of narcotic prescriptions, and every
     office raided had large quantities of Radical literature. Such
     associations are not uncommon.

     As to the distribution, a recent investigation by Hearst's
     Magazine definitely revealed the fact that the illegitimate
     distributors were almost invariably of the Jewish race, and that
     the pedlars were exclusively Jewish and Italian.

Enough, then, has been said to show that, whether as agents or as principals, Jews are playing
a part in all subversive movements. A Christian Jew, no renegade to his race but deeply concerned
for their future development, said recently to the present writer: "The growing materialism
amongst Jews has made them the most destructive force in the world. The only hope for them
is to accept Christianity. At present they are the greatest danger that Christian civilization
has to face."

The recognition of all these facts does not of course imply the belief that all Jews are destructive.
Undoubtedly there are good and loyal Jews--particularly in France, where the Sephardim predominate--who
have absolutely identified themselves with the country of their adoption, and are sincerely
opposed to Bolshevism. But these isolated individuals carry little weight compared to the massed
forces of subversive Jewry. The same thing was observed in America, where a report privately
communicated to the present writer in 1923 stated:

     It appears not without significance that Radical literature is
     never anti-Semitic, but, on the contrary, manifestoes issued by the
     Executive Committee of the Communist Party are often emphatically
     pro-Jewish. So far as I know, there is not one exclusively Jewish
     organization in the United States which is openly and consistently
     fighting Radicalism. Conservative Judaism loyal to the United
     States and its institutions as conceived by its founders is
     unorganized and inarticulate.

When, therefore, the Jewish press protests at the injustice of associating Jews with Bolshevism
it may be legitimately answered: What has Jewry done collectively to disassociate itself from
Bolshevism?[855] What official protests has the Jewish press uttered against any subversive
movement except when Jewish interests were threatened?[856] Has it not, on the contrary, denounced
all patriotic efforts to oppose the forces of destruction whenever such efforts necessitated
the exposure of the corrupt elements in Jewry?

But these tactics have not been confined to the Jewish press alone. The general press of this
country, over which the Jews exercise an increasing control, has followed the same policy.
This process of penetration began long ago on the Continent. As early as 1846 an English missionary
to the Jews in Berlin wrote:

     Independently of the fifteen exclusively Jewish journals of
     Germany, four of which have made their appearance since the
     beginning of the present year, the daily political press of Europe
     is very much under the dominion of the Jews; as literary
     contributors, they influence almost every leading Continental
     newspaper, and as controversy seems to be their native air, and
     they bring into the field mental energies of no ordinary stamp,
     they find no lack of employment, and if any literary opponent
     ventures to endeavour to arrest the progress of Judaism to
     political power, he finds himself held up to public notice, and
     exposed to attack after attack in most of the leading journals of
     Europe. Such ... was the lot of a Roman Catholic priest of Prague,
     who lately wrote a pamphlet entitled Guter Rath für Zeit der
     Noth, directed against the advancing power of Judaism. And such is
     my conviction of the extent of the participation the Jews take in
     the everyday literature of Germany, that I never pass by a crowded
     reading-room, but what I think I see standing behind the scenes a
     Jew, causing new ideas to rise and stir, and develop themselves in
     the unsuspecting mind of the Gentile.[857]

Do we not see the same methods being pursued with still greater vigour to-day? It would not
be an exaggeration to say that there is hardly a periodical in this country with the exception
of The Patriot that dares to speak out freely on questions in which the interests of Jews are
involved.

The fact is that the whole educational as well as the whole political and social world is permeated
with Jewish influence. Every man in public life, every modern politician, to whatever party
he belongs, seems to find it de rigueur to have his confidential Jewish adviser at his elbow,
just as in the Middle Ages a prince had his Jewish doctor always at hand to mix his potions
and ensure him long life. This appears to be owing not only to the utility of the Jew in financing
projects, but to the almost universal belief in the superior intelligence of the Jewish race
which the Jew has succeeded in implanting in the Gentile mind.

But the time has come to ask: Is the Jew really the super-man we have been taught to consider
him? On examination we shall find that in the present as in the past his talents are displayed
principally along two lines--financial and occult. Usurers in the Middle Ages, financiers to-day,
the Jews have always excelled in the making and manipulating of wealth. And just as at the
former period they were the great masters of magic, so at the present time they are the masters
of the almost magical art of gaining control over the mind both of the individual and of the
public.

Yet in the realms of literature, philosophy, painting, sculpture, politics, and even science,
Jews will be found frequently occupying the second or third ranks, and only very seldom the
first. Heine may be cited as a poet of the first order, Spinoza as a philosopher, Disraeli
as a statesman, but it would be difficult to prolong the list. On the stage and in music alone
can the Jews be said to have proved absolutely the equals of their Gentile competitors. The
fact is that the Jew is not usually a man of vast conceptions, nor is he endowed with great
originality of mind; his skill consists rather in elaborating or in adapting other men's ideas
and rendering them more effectual. Thus the most important inventions of modern times have
not been made by Jews, but have been frequently improved by them. Neither James Watt, Stephenson,
Marconi, Edison, Pasteur, nor Madame Curie were of the Jewish race, and the same might be said
of nearly all the greatest men who have lived since the dawn of our civilization. Napoleon
was not a Jew, nor was Shakespeare, nor Bacon, nor Sir Isaac Newton, nor Michael Angelo, nor
Leonardo da Vinci, nor Galileo, nor Dante, nor Descartes, nor Molière, nor Emerson, nor Abraham
Lincoln, nor Goethe, nor Kant, nor even Machiavelli. Thrown on their own resources, what civilization
were the Jews able to create? Whilst Egypt, Greece, and Rome have left immortal monuments,
what monuments has Palestine bequeathed to the world?[858]

The Jews, then, provide a high average of cleverness, but have they ever during the last two
thousand years produced one mighty genius? Moreover, against this high average of intelligence
must be set an equally high average of mental derangement. On this point we have the evidence
of the Jewish Encyclopædia:

     The Jews are more subject to diseases of the nervous system than
     the other races and peoples among which they dwell. Hysteria and
     neurasthenia appear to be most frequent. Some physicians of large
     experience among Jews have even gone so far as to state that most
     of them are neurasthenic and hysterical. Tobler claims that all
     the Jewish women in Palestine are hysterical; and Raymond says that
     in Warsaw, Poland, hysteria is very frequently met with among both
     Jewish men and Jewish women. The Jewish population of that city
     alone is almost exclusively the inexhaustible source for the supply
     of hysterical males for the clinics of the whole Continent
     (L'Etude des Maladies du Système Nerveux en Russie). As regards
     Austria and Germany, the same neurotic taint of the Jews has been
     emphasized by Krafft, Ebbing, etc.... In New York it has been shown
     by Collins that among 333 cases of neurasthenia which came under
     his observation, more than 40 per cent, were of Jewish extraction,
     etc.[859]

The same American neuro-psychiatrist already quoted attributes the predominance of Jews in
the revolutionary movement in America largely to this cause:

     Anarchists have been developed largely from the criminal classes,
     and a belief in anarchy, per se, is a psychopathic manifestation.
     A student of anarchy, therefore, would not only be obliged to cover
     the field of criminology, but its more significant and important
     background, psycho-pathology. Some anarchists are actually insane,
     while others show marked psychological deficiencies. Under our laws
     as they are now framed, they cannot be restrained unless they
     commit acts of violence.

     As it is, our asylums are filled with this class, and that
     introduces another phase of the matter. Our asylum insane are
     largely recruited from the Jewish race, at least recruited in
     tremendous disproportion to their number in the population. The
     fact that the revolutionary movement is so largely made up of
     Jewish elements furnishes an interesting confirmation of what I
     have said.

The Jewish World, recently commenting on the "generally admitted" fact that "the percentage
of mental disorders among Jews is much greater than among non-Jews," asks: "Is the cause inherent,
that is to say, is there a racial disposition towards degeneracy, or is it the result of the
external conditions and causes?" The writer goes on to refer to an article in the Zukunft which
supports the view that the terrible experiences of the Jews in the Middle Ages have affected
their nervous system, and therefore that the cause of mental derangement amongst them "is not
due to racial disposition, is not an ethnic principle, but is the result of the tragic lot
of the Jewish people."[860] It might perhaps be traced more surely to the habit of brooding
on that tragic lot. At any rate, it is curious to notice that the two symptoms recognized in
the first stages of "general paralysis of the insane," the mania that one is the object of
persecution and "exalted ideas" (known in France as the folie des grandeurs), are the two obsessions
that the Talmud and the Cabala with their dreams of world-domination under an avenging Messiah
have inculcated in the mind of the Jew.

But whatever are the causes of this neurosis, it is surely undesirable that a race which exhibits
it should be allowed to control the destinies of the British Empire or indeed of any country.
If "all the Jewish women in Palestine are hysterical," presumably many of their menkind suffer
from the same disability, which certainly does not promise well for the luckless Arab who is
to live beneath their sway. How much of the trouble that has occurred already in Palestine
may be attributed to this cause it is impossible to know. The increasing number of Jews in
positions of authority in England presents, however, a far greater subject for alarm. Jews
and Arabs are at any rate both Semites and may be expected to have certain ideas in common,
but to place a highly civilized Aryan race under Semitic control is another matter. The time
has come for every Briton to ask himself whether he seriously desires to see the traditions
of his country, those great traditions of honour, integrity, and justice which have made the
name of England great, replaced by Oriental standards. I do not say that there are no honourable
and upright Jews, but I do maintain that the spirit of fair play which is the essence of the
British character is not the characteristic of the Jewish race in general. The complete absence
of this spirit shown in the attempts of agitators to suppress free speech during elections
cannot be attributed to English working-men--whose "sporting" instinct is highly developed--and
testifies to the alien character of the so-called Labour movement. If England loses the spirit
of fair play, she will have lost her most priceless national heritage.

Conservatism, which has always stood for these great traditions, allows itself to be hypnotized
by the memory of Disraeli and accepts his dictum that "the natural tendency of the Jews is
to Conservatism"--hence the advisability of placing Jews in control of its interests. The late
Mr. Hyndman saw further when he warned us that "those who are accustomed to look upon all Jews
as essentially practical and conservative, as certain, too, to enlist on the side of the prevailing
social system, will be obliged to reconsider their conclusions."[861] The causes of the recent
débâcle of the Conservative Government are still obscure, but the fact remains that it was
precisely at a moment when Conservative organization had passed largely into Jewish hands that
Conservatism met with the most astounding disaster in the whole of its history. If the manner
in which Conservative propaganda was conducted at this moment was an example of Jewish efficiency,
it might be well to consider whether on a future occasion the task should not be confided into
the hands of simple Britons.

The only effectual way of combating Socialism is to show up the alien influences behind it.
As long as the working man believes it to be the outcome of a genuine British labour movement,
he will turn a deaf ear to all warnings and anti-Socialist propaganda will merely serve to
drive more recruits into the Socialist camp. But let him once suspect that he is being made
the tool of foreign intrigue, and all his national feeling will assert itself. We have only
to ask him whether he wants his work taken from him by the import of alien goods, his housing
accommodation appropriated by alien immigrants, finally to make him understand who are the
people behind the scenes advocating a policy so disastrous to his true interests, in order
to gain his support. The Secret Service has overwhelming evidence on this last point, which
under a Conservative Government might have been made public, but unseen influences in high
places have ordained its suppression. The slogan "Britain for the Britons," that would form
the strongest counterblast to the false slogans of Socialism, has been barred from Conservative
platforms and the very word "alien" avoided lest it should offend Jewish susceptibilities.
Thus out of deference to the Jews, Conservatism allows its most powerful weapon to rust in
its armoury.

In reality these tactics avail nothing to the Conservative cause. The great weight of Jewry
will never be thrown into the scale of true Conservatism; only in so far as Conservatism abandons
its patriotic traditions and compromises with the forces of Internationalism will it win any
considerable Jewish support. We have but to follow the commitments on current politics in the
Jewish press in order to realize that the only standard by which the Jews judge of any political
party is the measure in which it will confer exclusive advantages on their own race. The Jewish
question, therefore, does not turn on whether the Jews shall be accorded everywhere equal rights
with the rest of mankind, but whether they shall be placed above the law, whether they shall
be allowed to occupy everywhere a privileged position.[862] Nothing less will satisfy them,
and any attempt to oppose this claim will always be met by them with the cry of "persecution."
Further, this position of privilege represents to a section of Jewry merely a stage on the
road to world-domination. For if, as we have seen by documentary evidence, this plan has always
existed in the past, is it likely that it has been abandoned at the very moment which seems
most propitious for its realization? The trend of present events and the tone of the Jewish
press certainly do not warrant any such conclusion.

To sum up, then, I do not think that the Jews can be proved to provide the sole cause of world-unrest.
In order to establish this contention we should be obliged to show the Jews to have been the
authors of every past social convulsion in the history of modern civilization, to discover
their influence behind the heretical sects of Islam, as behind the Bavarian Illuminati and
the Anarchists of Russia. In the absence of any such conclusive evidence we must therefore
recognize the existence of other destructive forces at work in the world.

But this is not to underrate the importance of the Jewish peril. Although the existence of
an inner circle of Masonic "Elders" remains problematical, Jewry in itself constitutes the
most effectual Freemasonry in the world. What need of initiations, or oaths, or signs, or passwords
amongst people who perfectly understand each other and are everywhere working for the same
end? Far more potent than the sign of distress that summons Freemasons to each other's aid
at moments of peril is the call of the blood that rallies the most divergent elements in Jewry
to the defence of the Jewish cause.

The old complaint of the French merchants already quoted would thus appear to be justified,
that "the Jews are particles of quicksilver, which at the least slant run together into a block."
One must therefore not be deceived by the fact that they often appear disunited. There may
be, and indeed is, very little unity amongst Jews, but there is immense solidarity. A Jew named
Morel, referring to the persecution of the converted Rabbi Drach by the Jews, observes:

     What can the wisest measures of the authorities of all countries do
     against the vast and permanent conspiracy of a people which, like
     a network as vast as it is strong, stretched over the whole globe,
     brings its force to bear wherever an event occurs that interests
     the name of Israelite?[863]

It is this solidarity that constitutes the real Jewish Peril and at the same time provides
the real cause of "anti-Semitism." If in a world where all patriotism, all national traditions,
and all Christian virtues are being systematically destroyed by the doctrines of International
Socialism one race alone, a race that since time immemorial has cherished the dream of world-power,
is not only allowed but encouraged to consolidate itself, to maintain all its national traditions,
and to fulfil all its national aspirations at the expense of other races, it is evident that
Christian civilization must be eventually obliterated. The wave of anti-Jewish feeling that
during the last few years has been passing over this country has nothing in common with the
racial hatred that inspires the "anti-Semitism" of Germany; it is simply the answer to a pretension
that liberty-loving Britons will not admit. Those of us who, sacrificing popularity and monetary
gain, dare to speak out on this question have no hatred in our hearts, but only love for our
country. We believe that not only our national security but our great national traditions are
at stake, and that unless England awakens in time she will pass under alien domination and
her influence as the stronghold of Christian civilization will be lost to the world.

CONCLUSION

We have now followed the course of associations working throughout nineteen centuries to undermine
social and moral order and above all Christian civilization. We have also seen that although
on the one hand the unholy spirit of destruction and on the other the natural spirit of revolt
against oppression have always existed independently of any organization, it is to secret societies
using and organizing these forces that the revolutionary movement has owed its success. Further,
we have considered the possibility that behind both open and secret subversive societies there
may exist a hidden centre of direction, and finally we have observed that at the present time
many lines of investigation reveal a connexion between these groups and the Grand Orient, or
rather with an invisible circle concealed behind that great masonic power. At the same time
this circle is clearly not French in character since everywhere the activities of World Revolution
are directed against France and England but seldom against Germany and never against the Jews.
It would not be an exaggeration to say that no subversive movement in the world to-day is either
pro-French, pro-British, or "anti-Semitic." We must conclude then that if one Power controls
the rest it is either the Pan-German Power, the Jewish Power or what we can only call Illuminism.

This last hypothesis is one that deserves serious consideration. In the light of our present
knowledge it does not appear impossible that if an inner circle of World Revolution exists
it consists of a purely International group of men whose aim is that of Weishaupt--the destruction
of the present system of society. That such an aim can be seriously entertained is shown by
the fact that it is openly proclaimed by a whole school of writers and thinkers ranging from
gentle Idealists to ferocious Anarchists who, whilst widely differing as to methods and the
ultimate ends to be attained, are agreed on the common purpose expressed by Rabaud de Saint-Étienne
in the words: "Everything, yes, everything must be destroyed, since everything must be re-made."

It is idle to say that so insane a project can present no danger to the world; the fact remains
that an increasing number of people regard it with perfect equanimity. The phrase: "All civilizations
have passed away; ours will doubtless pass away likewise," is continually to be heard on the
lips of apparently sane men and women who, whether they advocate such an eventuality or not,
seem prepared to accept it in a spirit of complete fatalism and to put up no resistance. The
point they ignore is that when civilization existed only in isolated spots on the earth's surface
it might pass away in one spot only to spring to life in another, but now that civilization
is world-wide the dream of a return to nature and the joys of savagery conjured up by Rousseau
and Weishaupt can never be realized. Yet if civilization in a material sense cannot be destroyed,
it is none the less possible to take the soul out of it, to reduce it to a dead and heartless
machine without human feelings or divine aspirations. The Bolsheviks continue to exist amidst
telephones, electric light, and other amenities of modern life, but they have almost killed
the soul of Russia. In this sense then civilization may pass away, not as the civilizations
of the ancient world passed away, leaving only desert sands and crumbling ruins behind them,
but vanishing imperceptibly from beneath the outward structure of our existing institutions.
Here is the final goal of world revolution.

