Relics of love, and life's enchanted spring,
  Of hopes born, rainbow-like, of smiles and tears:--
With trembling hand do I unloose the string,
  Twined round the records of my youthful years.

Yet why preserve memorials of a dream,
  Too bitter-sweet to breathe of aught but pain!
Why court fond memory for a fitful gleam
  Of faded bliss, that cannot bloom again!

The thoughts and feelings these sad relics bring
  Back on my heart, I would not now recall:--
Since gentler ties around its pulses cling,
  Shall spells less hallowed hold them still in thrall!

Can withered hopes that never came to flower
  Match with affections long and dearly tried
Love, that has lived through many a stormy hour,
  Through good and ill,--and time and change defied!

Perish each record that might wake a thought
  That would be treason to a faith like this!--
Why should the spectres of past joys be brought
  To fling their shadows o'er my present bliss!

Yet,--ere we part for ever,--let me pay
  A last, fond tribute to the sainted dead:
Mourn o'er these wrecks of passion's earlier day,
  With tears as wild as once I used to shed.

What gentle words are flashing on my eye!
  What tender truths in every line I trace!
Confessions--penned with many a deep drawn sigh.--
  Hopes--like the dove--with but one resting place!

How many a feeling, long--too long--represt,
  Like autumn flowers, here opened out at last!
How many a vision of the lonely breast
  Its cherish'd radiance on these leaves hath cast?

And ye, pale violets, whose sweet breath hath driven
  Back on my soul the dreams I fain would quell;
To whose faint perfume such wild power is given,
  To call up visions--only loved too well;--

Ye too must perish!--Wherefore now divide
  Tributes of love--first offerings of the heart;--
Gifts--that so long have slumbered side by side;
  Tokens of feeling--never meant to part!

A long farewell:--sweet flowers, sad scrolls, adieu!
  Yes, ye shall be companions to the last:--
So perish all that would revive anew
  The fruitless memories of the faded past!

But, lo! the flames are curling swiftly round
  Each fairer vestige of my youthful years;
Page after page that searching blaze hath found,
  Even whilst I strive to trace them through my tears.

The Hindoo widow, in affection strong,
  Dies by her lord, and keeps her faith unbroken;
Thus perish all which to those wrecks belong,
  The living memory--with the lifeless token!

Barry Cornwall has contributed several minor pieces, though we fear his poetical reputation
will not be increased by either of them.

Some of the minor pieces are gems in their way, and one of the most beautiful will be found
appended to our current Number.

To the prose:--The first in the volume is "the Sisters," a pathetic tale of about thirty pages,
which a little of the fashionable affectation of some literary coxcombs might fine-draw over
a brace of small octavos. As it stands, the story is gracefully, yet energetically told, and
is entitled to the place it occupies. The author of Pelham (vide the newspapers) has a pleasant
conceit in the shape of a whole-length of fashion, which, being the best and shortest in its
line that we have met with, will serve to enliven our extracts:--

TOO HANDSOME FOR ANY THING!

Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was one of those models of perfection of which a human father and mother
can produce but a single example,--Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was therefore an only son. He was
such an amazing favourite with both his parents that they resolved to ruin him; accordingly,
he was exceedingly spoiled, never annoyed by the sight of a book, and had as much plum-cake
as he could eat. Happy would it have been for Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy could he always have eaten
plum-cake, and remained a child. "Never," says the Greek Tragedian, "reckon a mortal happy
till you have witnessed his end." A most beautiful creature was Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy! Such
eyes--such hair--such teeth--such a figure--such manners, too,--and such an irresistible way
of tying his neckcloth! When he was about sixteen, a crabbed old uncle represented to his parents
the propriety of teaching Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy to read and write. Though not without some
difficulty, he convinced them,--for he was exceedingly rich, and riches in an uncle are wonderful
arguments respecting the nurture of a nephew whose parents have nothing to leave him. So our
hero was sent to school. He was naturally (I am not joking now) a very sharp, clever boy; and
he came on surprisingly in his learning. The schoolmaster's wife liked handsome children.--"What
a genius will Master Ferdinand Fitzroy be, if you take pains with him!" said she, to her husband.

"Pooh, my dear, it is of no use to take pains with him."

"And why, love?"

"Because he is a great deal too handsome ever to be a scholar."

"And that's true enough, my dear!" said the schoolmaster's wife.

So, because he was too handsome to be a scholar, Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy remained the lag of
the fourth form!

They took our hero from school.--"What profession shall he follow?" said his mother.

"My first cousin is the Lord Chancellor," said his father, "let him go to the bar."

The Lord Chancellor dined there that day: Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was introduced to him; his
lordship was a little, rough-faced, beetle-browed, hard-featured man, who thought beauty and
idleness the same thing--and a parchment skin the legitimate complexion for a lawyer.

"Send him to the bar!" said he, "no, no, that will never do!--Send him into the army; he is
much too handsome to become a lawyer."

"And that's true enough, my lord!" said the mother. So they bought Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy a
cornetcy in the ---- regiment of dragoons.

Things are not learned by inspiration. Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy had never ridden at school, except
when he was hoisted; he was, therefore, a very indifferent horseman; they sent him to the riding-school,
and everybody laughed at him.

"He is a d--d ass!" said Cornet Horsephiz, who was very ugly; "a horrid puppy!" said Lieutenant
St. Squintem, who was still uglier; "if he does not ride better he will disgrace the regiment,"
said Captain Rivalhate, who was very good-looking; "if he does not ride better, we will cut
him!" said Colonel Everdrill, who was a wonderful martinet; "I say, Mr. Bumpemwell (to the
riding-master,) make that youngster ride less like a miller's sack."

"Pooh, sir, he will never ride better."

"And why the d---l will he not?"

"Bless you, colonel, he is a great deal too handsome for a cavalry officer!"

"True!" said Cornet Horsephiz.

"Very true," said Lieutenant St. Squintem.

"We must cut him!" said the Colonel.

And Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was accordingly cut.

Out hero was a youth of susceptibility--he quitted the ---- regiment, and challenged the colonel.
The colonel was killed!

"What a terrible blackguard is Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy!" said the colonel's relations.

"Very true!" said the world.

The parents were in despair!--They were not rich; but our hero was an only son, and they sponged
hard upon the crabbed old uncle! "he is very clever," said they both, "and may do yet."

So they borrowed some thousands from the uncle, and bought his beautiful nephew a seat in parliament.

Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was ambitious, and desirous of retrieving his character. He fagged like
a dragon--conned pamphlets and reviews--got Ricardo by heart--and made notes on the English
constitution.

He rose to speak.

"What a handsome fellow!" whispered one member.

"Ah, a coxcomb!" said another.

"Never do for a speaker!" said a third, very audibly.

And the gentlemen on the opposite benches sneered and heard!--Impudence is only indigenous
in Milesia, and an orator is not made in a day. Discouraged by his reception, Mr. Ferdinand
Fitzroy grew a little embarrassed.

"Told you so!" said one of his neighbours.

"Fairly broke down!" said another.

"Too fond of his hair to have any thing in his head," said a third, who was considered a wit.

"Hear, hear!" cried the gentlemen on the opposite benches,

Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy sat down--he had not shone; but, in justice, he had not failed. Many
a first-rate speaker had began worse; and many a country member had been declared a phoenix
of promise upon half his merit.

Not so, thought the heroes of corn-laws.

"Your Adonises never make orators!" said a crack speaker with a wry nose.

"Nor men of business either," added the chairman of a committee, with a face like a kangaroo's.

"Poor devil!" said the civilest of the set. "He's a deuced deal too handsome for a speaker!
By Jove, he is going to speak again--this will never do; we must cough him down!"

And Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy was accordingly coughed down.

Our hero was now seven or eight and twenty, handsomer than ever, and the adoration of the young
ladies at Almack's.

"We have nothing to leave you," said the parents, who had long spent their fortune, and now
lived on the credit of having once enjoyed it.--"You are the handsomest man in London; you
must marry an heiress."

"I will," said Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy.

Miss Helen Convolvulus was a charming young lady, with a hare-lip and six thousand a-year.
To Miss Helen Convolvulus then our hero paid his addresses.

Heavens! what an uproar her relations made about the matter. "Easy to see his intentions,"
said one: "a handsome fortune-hunter, who wants to make the best of his person!"--"handsome
is that handsome does," says another; "he was turned out of the army, and murdered his colonel;"--"never
marry a beauty," said a third;--"he can admire none but himself;"--"will have so many mistresses,"
said a fourth;--"make you perpetually jealous," said a fifth;--"spend your fortune," said a
sixth;--"and break your heart," said a seventh.

Miss Helen Convolvulus was prudent and wary. She saw a great deal of justice in what was said;
and was sufficiently contented with liberty and six thousand a-year, not to be highly impatient
for a husband; but our heroine had no aversion to a lover; especially to so handsome a lover
as Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy. Accordingly she neither accepted nor discarded him; but kept him
on hope, and suffered him to get into debt with his tailor, and his coach-maker. On the strength
of becoming Mr. Fitzroy Convolvulus. Time went on, and excuses and delays were easily found;
however, our hero was sanguine, and so were his parents. A breakfast at Chiswick, and a putrid
fever carried off the latter, within one week of each other; but not till they had blessed
Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy, and rejoiced that they had left him so well provided for.

Now, then, our hero depended solely upon the crabbed old uncle and Miss Helen Convolvulus;
the former, though a baronet and a satirist was a banker and a man of business:--he looked
very distastefully at the Hyperian curls and white teeth of Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy.

"If I make you my heir," said he--"I expect you will continue the bank."

"Certainly, sir!" said the nephew.

"Humph!" grunted the uncle, "a pretty fellow for a banker!"

Debtors grew pressing to Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy, and Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy grew pressing to
Miss Helen Convolvulus. "It is a dangerous thing," said she, timidly, "to marry a man so admired,--will
you always be faithful?"

"By heaven!" cried the lover.

"Heigho!" sighed Miss Helen Convolvulus, and Lord Rufus Pumilion entering, the conversation
was changed.

But the day of the marriage was fixed; and Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy bought a new curricle. By
Apollo, how handsome he looked in it! A month before the wedding day the uncle died. Miss Helen
Convolvulus was quite tender in her condolences--"Cheer up, my Ferdinand," said she, "for your
sake, I have discarded Lord Rufus Pumilion!" "Adorable condescension!" cried our hero;--"but
Lord Rufus Pumilion is only four feet two, and has hair like a peony."

"All men are not so handsome as Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy!" was the reply.

Away goes our hero, to be present at the opening of his uncle's will.

"I leave," said the testator (who I have before said was a bit of a satirist,) "my share of
the bank, and the whole or my fortune, legacies excepted, to"--(here Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy
wiped his beautiful eyes with a cambric handkerchief, exquisitely brode) "my natural son, John
Spriggs, an industrious, pains-taking youth, who will do credit to the bank. I did once intend
to have made my nephew Ferdinand my heir; but so curling a head can have no talent for accounts.
I want my successor to be a man of business, not beauty; and Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy is a great
deal too handsome for a banker; his good looks will, no doubt, win him any heiress in town.
Meanwhile, I leave him, to buy a dressing-case, a thousand pounds."

"A thousand devils!" said Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy, banging out of the room. He flew to his mistress.
She was not at home. "Lies," says the Italian proverb, "have short legs;" but truths, if they
are unpleasant, have terrible long ones! The next day Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy received a most
obliging note of dismissal.

"I wish you every happiness," said Miss Helen Convolvulus, in conclusion--"but my friends are
right; you are much too handsome for a husband!"

And the week after, Miss Helen Convolvulus became Lady Rufus Pumilion.

"Alas! sir," said the bailiff, as a day or two after the dissolution of parliament, he was
jogging along with Mr. Ferdinand Fitzroy, in a hackney coach bound to the King's Bench,--"Alas!
sir, what a pity it is to take so handsome a gentleman to prison!"

The MS. found in a Madhouse, by the same author, is perhaps too horrific for this terror-loving
age; but it is by no means less clever on that account; toute en huile would not do. Among
the other tales are the Rock of the Candle, Irish, by the author of Holland-Tide,--nearly forty
pages; and the Queen of May and Bridget Plantagenet,--of the olden time--which would be spoiled
by abridgment for our present purpose. The same reason prevents our giving more than our commendation
of Miss Mitford's General and his Lady, who, we think are new company for our fair authoress.

In the Vision of Purgatory, by Dr. Maginn, (Irish, of course,) the serious and ludicrous are
mixed up with an abundance of skill and humour; this piece should be read after the Madhouse
sketch.

The Souvenir is opportunely dedicated to Mr. Peel; and whether as a work of art, or elegant
literature, it is decidedly worthy of such distinguished notice. If the argument of the fine
arts contributing to virtue hold good, then the patronage of a minister will be patriotically
bestowed on such works as the Literary Souvenir.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Amulet.

Edited by S. C. Hall, Esq.

It would be difficult and somewhat egotistical for us to describe the pleasure we felt on our
receiving this interesting volume for notice in our pages. The amiable spirit which breathes
throughout its pages, and the good taste which uniformly dictates its editorship have secured
the Amulet an extensive, and we are disposed to think, a more permanent, popularity than is
attached to other works of similar form.[1]

[Footnote 1] In a few words, the Amulet reached us in an early stage of convalescence, when
we began to feel that "no medicine is better for the weakness of the body than that which soothes
and tranquillizes the soul." We are not suiting the action to the word; on the contrary, we
would desire to wear such truths as the Amulet enjoins--in our "heart of hearts," as well in
returning health and vigour as in the above moments.

The present volume contains Fourteen Plates, among which are Murillo's Spanish Flower Girl;
Etty's Guardian Angels, by Finden; a copy of Sir Thomas Lawrence's portrait of Lady Georgiana
Fane, from Colnaghi's print; Eastlake's Italian Mother; one of Collins's last pictures, The
Fisherman Leaving Home; The Temple of Victory, from Gandy,--all which are first-rate works of art.

There are eighty contributions, as the bookmakers say, "in prose and verse," with a predominance
of the former. The first of the prose is a Strange Story of every day, by William Kennedy--well
told, but too long for extract. The Mountain Daisy, a village sketch, by the Editor's lady,
is gracefully written; and with the Fisherman, by the Editor, is a fair characteristic of the
amiable spirit to which we have already alluded; and in the same tone of good feeling is the
Rose of Fennock Dale, a true story by the fair authoress of the Mountain Daisy; and the Wandering
Minstrels, by the Rev. F.A. Cox, L.L.D. Miss Mitford has contributed one of her inimitable
sketches, Little Moses; but the most staple articles in the volume are The Battle of Bunaania,
one of the Georgian Islands, by Mr. Ellis, the missionary; Notices of the Canadian Indians,
by Dr. Walsh; a Journey over the Brocken, by Mr. Coleridge; and a Fragment, by Miss Jane Porter.
Our prose selection is from the last of these articles; but we intend transferring a portion
of Dr. Walsh's "Notices" to our next "Manners and Customs."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SOUTH SEA CHIEF.

By Miss Jane Porter.

While in the north of Europe, I met with a rather extraordinary person, whose account of himself
might afford a subject for a pretty romance; a sort of new Paul and Virginia; but with what
different catastrophe, it is not fair to presage. He described himself as a Frenchman, a native
of Bourdeaux; where, at an early age, he was put on board a merchant ship, to learn the profession
of a seaman. About that time war broke out between Great Britain, and the lately proclaimed
Republic of France; and the vessel he was in, being attacked, and taken by an English man-of-war,
he was carried a prisoner into England. When there, his naturally enterprising character would
not submit itself to a state of captivity; and, soon making his wishes understood, he entered
on board a British sloop, bound to New Holland. While gazing with rapt astonishment on the
seeming new heavens which canopied that, to him, also, new portion of the globe; while the
stars of the Cross were exciting his youthful wonder; and he could no where find the constellations
of the Great, or Little Bear in the midnight firmament, the sky was suddenly overcast with
a cloud, like the pall of nature, and a fearful tempest burst from it. The scene was dreadful
on that wide waste of waters; and the vessel being driven at last into the rocky labyrinths
of the Society Isles, was finally wrecked on one not many leagues from the celebrated Otaheite.
Laonce, the young Frenchman, and one seaman of the sloop, an honest north Briton, were the
only persons who escaped; for when morning broke, they found themselves, restored from insensibility,
lying on the shore, and not a trace of the ship, or of those who had navigated her, was to
be discerned. The inhabitants of the island, apparently wild savages by their almost naked
state, instead of seizing them as a prey, took them to their huts, fed, and cherished them.
Hope for awhile flattered them that some other vessel, bound for New Holland, might also be
driven upon those islands, though not with the same hard fate, and that by her means they might
be released, and conveyed back to Europe. But days, and weeks, and months, wearing away without
any such arrival, they began to regard the expectation less, and to turn their minds to take
a more intimate interest in objects around them. Time, indeed, accustomed them to what might
be called barbarous, in the manners of the people; by degrees, even themselves laid aside their
European habits; they exchanged their clothing for the half-exposed fashion of the native chiefs;
and, adopting their pursuits and pleasures, became hunters, and bold fishers in the light canoe.
Finally, they learnt to speak the language, as if they had been born in the island; and, at
length, sealed their insular destiny by marrying native women. Laonce was hardly eighteen when
he was first cast ashore amongst them; but having a handsome person, and those engaging manners,
from a naturally amiable disposition added to a gentleman's breeding, which never fail agreeably
impressing even the rudest minds, the eye of female tenderness soon found him out; and the
maiden, being the daughter of the king, and beautiful withal, had only to hint her wishes to
her royal sire; and the king naming them to their distinguished object, she immediately became
his happy bride. Laonce, becoming thus royally allied, and in the line of the throne, instantly
received publicly the investiture of the highest order of Otaheitan nobility, namely, a species
of tattooing appropriated to chiefs alone. The limbs of the body thus distinguished, are traversed
all over with a damasked sort of pattern, while the particular royal insignia is marked on
the left side of the forehead, and below the eye, like a thick mass of dark tattooing.

But the young Frenchman, and his north Briton companion, had reserved to themselves means of
increasing their consequence, still more than by their mere personal merits, with their new
fellow-countrymen. A few days after the wreck, the subsiding elements had cast up certain articles
of the ship, which they managed to turn to good account: the most valuable of them were fire-arms
and some gunpowder, and a few other implements, both of defence, and use in household, or ship's
repairs. The fire-arms seemed to endow the new young chief, just engrafted into the reigning
stock, with a kind of preternatural authority; and, by the aid of his old messmate, and new
bosom-coadjutor, he exerted all his influence over their awed minds, to prevent their recurrence
to the frightful practice he had seen on his first landing, of devouring the prisoners they
took in war. His marriage had invested him with the power of a natively born son of the king;
and, having made himself master of their language, his persuasions were so conclusive with
the leading warriors, that, in the course of a very little time, it was rare to hear that so
dreadful a species of vengeance was ever tasted, even in stealth. However, so addicted were
some few of the fiercer sort, to this ancient triumph of their ancestors, that he found it
necessary to add commands to persuasions, and then threats to commands; and having expressed
in the strongest terms his abhorrence of so cowardly and brutal a practice, he told them, that
the first man he saw attempt to touch the flesh of a prisoner to devour it, he would instantly
put the offender to death.

Shortly after this warning, a fray took place between the natives of his father-in-law's dominions,
and their enemies from a hostile island. A number of captives were taken; and all under his
command held his former orders in such reverence, that none, excepting two (and they had before
shown refractory dispositions,) presumed to disobey his edict of mercy. But these men, in derision
of his lenity, particularly to the female sex, selected a woman prisoner to be their victim;
and slaying her, as they would have done a beast, they commenced their horrible repast upon
her body. Laonce descried the scene at a distance just as they had prepared their hideous banquet,
and, going resolutely towards them, levelled his musket at the cannibals. One of the wretches
was killed with the horrid morsel in his mouth, and a second shot, brought down his voracious
accomplice in the act. This bold example so awed all within ken of the fact, that from that
hour, until the day he quitted the island, a period of fourteen years, no captive ever met
with the interdicted fate. Though the old sovereign continued in life, he consigned the power
to his new son, and Laonce became virtually king of the place. Indeed, so reconciled was he
and his friend the north Briton (who also married) to the spot which had first sheltered them,
and then adopted them even as its legitimate offspring, that although many ships of different
nations touched there, no inducements could prevail on them to quit their sea-girt home of
simple nature, for all the blandishments which civilized life could produce. Yet Laonce took
a hospitable delight in showing every act of friendship in his power to the captains of the
vessels; refitting them with food and fresh water; and rendering them much essential service,
in pointing out how to manage with safety the difficult navigation round the several islands.

The animation with which he recited these circumstances, after he was far from the spot where
they took place, strongly portrayed the fearless independence of his former life. He spoke
with the decision of one whose commands had been unappealable, and all the barbarian chief
lightened in his eyes. But when he recalled his home there, his family happiness, his countenance
fell, his eyes clouded, and he spoke in half-stifled words. He described his palace-hut; his
arms, his hunting spear, his canoe; his return to his hut, with the fruits of the chase; the
graceful, delicate person of his wife; her clinging fondness on his entrance; his tenderness
for her, and for his children--for she bore to him a son and a daughter; and, while he spoke,
he burst into tears, and sobbed like a child. "I was then beloved," said he, "Honoured!--master
of all around me; Now, I am nothing:--no home--no wife--no friend! I am an outcast here!--when
there! Oh, Berea! wilt thou have forgotten me?" His tears, and wild agonies, prevented him
proceeding; and my eyes could not remain dry, when seeing such genuine grief, such real suffering.

But the cause of his being separated from his South-Sea home, and his beloved Berea and her
babes, remains to be told. It appears, that about three years before the period I met him,
a Russian ship, sent on a voyage of discoveries, touched at the island where Laonce had become
naturalized. The captain was received with royal hospitality by the king; and the Prince Laonce
became the glad interpreter between the Europeans and his august father-in-law--for the captain
spoke French. And, besides procuring the crew all they wanted for common comforts, the young
chief loaded the commander and his officers with useful presents. One night it blew a violent
gale, and the Russian captain, deeming it impossible to keep his anchorage in a bay so full
of unseen dangers, made signals to the land, in hopes of exciting some native, experienced
in the navigation, to come off, and direct him how to steer. Every moment increased his jeopardy;
the storm augmented; and, at each growing blast, he expected to be torn from his cables, and
dashed to atoms against the rocks. No one moved from the shore. Again the signals were repeated:
Laonce had risen from his bed on hearing the first. Who was there amongst all in that island,
excepting his British comrade, who would have known how to move a ship through those boiling
waves? The light canoe, and a vessel of heavy burthen, were different objects! His comrade
was then watching by the side of an almost dying wife, who had just made him the father of
his first-born son. Could Laonce summon him from that spot of his heart's tenderest duties,
to attend to the roaring guns of distress from a stranger vessel? Impossible! He rose, and
looked out on the night. He listened to the second signal, he wrung his hands, and, sighing,
was returning to his couch again. His wife had then risen also. She clasped her arms round
him, and a big tear stood in both her eyes, "You tell me," said she, "that your people do not
make those thunders to heaven, and to earth, till they are drowning. You know you can save
them all. Go, Lao,"--and she smiled; "go; and the foreign chief, after you have saved him,
will give you something for me--either a looking-glass, or a silk handkerchief. Go, Lao."

He wound his arms round the gentle pleader; and, almost ashamed that the father and the husband
in his heart, should make him calculate between his own life and that of the gallant crew,
he told her, that the tempest raged too tremendously for him to dare stemming it. But she laughingly
repulsed his caresses, accusing his fondness for her as the inducement of his assumed apprehensions;
and being too long accustomed to the rashness of her own people, in braving every weather,
to believe any plea of positive danger, she still persisted; saying she must have a silk handkerchief
that night from yon ship, or she should think he loved his sound sleep better than he did his
fond Berea.

