     I have not a doubt she was thinking then
     Of her former lord, good soul that he was,
     Who died the richest and roundest of men,
     The Marquis of Carabas.

     I hope that, to get to the kingdom of heaven,
     Through a needle's eye he had not to pass;
     I wish him well for the jointure given
     To my lady of Carabas.

     And the Jasmine flower in her fair young breast;
     (O the faint sweet smell of that Jasmine flower!)
     And the one bird singing alone to its nest;
     And the one star over the tower.

     For I thought of her grave below the hill,
     Which the sentinel cypress-tree stands over;
     And I thought, "Were she only living still,
     How I could forgive her and love her!"

     And I swear as I thought of her thus in that hour,
     And of how, after all, old things are best,
     That I smelt the smell of that Jasmine flower
     Which she used to wear in her breast.

     And I turned and looked; she was sitting there,
     In a dim box over the stage; and drest
     In that muslin dress, with that full soft hair,
     And that Jasmine in her breast!

     I was here, and she was there;
     And the glittering horse-shoe curved between;--
     From my bride betrothed, with her raven hair
     And her sumptuous scornful mien,

     To my early love with her eyes downcast,
     And over her primrose face the shade,
     (In short from the future back to the past)
     There was but a step to be made.

     To my early love from my future bride
     One moment I looked, then I stole to the door,
     I traversed the passage; and down at her side
     I was sitting a moment more.

     My thinking of her or the music's strain,
     Or something which never will be expressed,
     Had brought her back from the grave again,
     With the Jasmine in her breast.

     She is not dead, and she is not wed!
     But she loves me now and she loved me then!
     And the very first words that her sweet lips said,
     My heart grew youthful again.

     The Marchioness there, of Carabas,
     She is wealthy and young and handsome still,
     And but for her ... well, we'll let that pass;
     She may marry whomever she will.

BOBBY SHAFTO[3]

DANIEL HENRY, JR.

Theme.

     "Bobby Shafto's gone to sea:--
     Silver buckles on his knee--
     He'll come back and marry me,
           Pretty Bobby Shafto!"
     "Mother Goose Melodies."

     "With his treasures won at sea,
     Spanish gold and Portugee,
     And his heart, still fast to me,
            Pretty Bobby Shafto!

     "In a captain's pomp and pride,
     With a gold sword at his side,
     He'll come back to claim his bride,
           Pretty Bobby Shafto!"

     So she sang, the winter long,
     Till the sun came, golden-strong,
     And the blue birds caught her song:
           All of Bobby Shafto.

     Days went by, and autumn came,
     Eyes grew dim, and feet went lame,
     But the song, it was the same,
           All of Bobby Shafto.

     Never came across the sea,
     Silver buckles on his knee,
     Bobby to his bride-to-be,
           Fickle Bobby Shafto!

     For where midnight never dies,
     In the Storm-King's caves of ice,
     Stiff and stark, poor Bobby lies--
           Heigho! Bobby Shafto.

FOOTNOTE:

[3] From "Under a Fool's Cap."

CARCASSONNE

GUSTAV NADAUD, translated by M. E. W. SHERWOOD

           "How old I am! I'm eighty years!
           I've worked both hard and long;
     Yet patient as my life has been,
     One dearest sight I have not seen,--
           It almost seems a wrong.
     A dream I had when life was new;
     Alas, our dreams! they come not true;
     I thought to see fair Carcassonne,--
     That lovely city,--Carcassonne!

           "One sees it dimly from the height
           Beyond the mountains blue,
     Fain would I walk five weary leagues,--
     I do not mind the road's fatigues,--
           Through morn and evening's dew;
     But bitter frost would fall at night;
     And on the grapes,--that yellow blight!
     I could not go to Carcassonne,
     I never went to Carcassonne.

           "They say it is as gay all times
           As holidays at home!
     The gentles ride in gay attire,
     And in the sun each gilded spire
           Shoots up like those of Rome!
     The bishop the procession leads,
     The generals curb their prancing steeds.
     Alas! I know not Carcassonne--
     Alas! I saw not Carcassonne!

           "Our Vicar's right! he preaches loud,
           And bids us to beware;
     He says, 'O guard the weakest-part,
     And most that traitor in the heart
           Against ambition's snare.'
     Perhaps in autumn I can find
     Two sunny days with gentle wind;
     I then could go to Carcassonne,
     I still could go to Carcassonne.

           "My God, my Father! pardon me
           If this my wish offends;
     One sees some hope more high than his,
     In age, as in his infancy,
           To which his heart ascends!
     My wife, my son have seen Narbonne,
     My grandson went to Perpignan,
     But I have not seen Carcassonne,
     But I have not seen Carcassonne."

           Thus sighed a peasant bent with age,
           Half-dreaming in his chair;
     I said, "My friend, come go with me
     To-morrow, then thine eyes shall see
           Those streets that seem so fair."
     That night there came for passing soul
     The church-bell's low and solemn toll.
     He never saw gay Carcassonne.
     Who has not known a Carcassonne?

THE CHILD-WIFE

CHARLES DICKENS

All this time I had gone on loving Dora harder than ever. If I may so express it, I was steeped
in Dora. I was not merely over head and ears in love with her, I was saturated through and through.

One day Miss Mills said: "Dora is coming to stay with me. She is coming the day after to-morrow.
If you would like to call, I am sure papa would be happy to see you."

I passed three days in a luxury of wretchedness. Mr. Mills was not at home. Dora's little dog
Jip was there. Miss Mills was copying music, and Dora was painting flowers. What were my feelings
when I recognized flowers I had given her!

I began to think I would put it off till to-morrow.

"I hope your poor horse was not tired when he got home at night from that picnic," said Dora,
lifting up her beautiful eyes.

"It was a long way for him."

I began to think I would do it to-day.

"It was a long way for him, for he had nothing to uphold him on the journey."

"Wasn't he fed, poor thing?"

I began to think I would put it off till to-morrow.

"Ye-yes, he was well taken care of. I mean he had not the unutterable happiness that I had
in being so near to you."

I saw now that I was in for it, and it must be done on the spot.

"I don't know why you should care for being near me, or why you should call it a happiness.
But of course you don't mean what you say. Jip barked madly all the time. My eloquence increased,
and I said if she would like me to die for her, she had but to say the word, and I was ready.
I had loved her to distraction every minute, day and night, since I first set eyes upon her.

Being poor, I felt it necessary the next time I went to my darling to expatiate on that unfortunate
drawback.

"How can you ask me anything so foolish?

But I looked so serious that Dora began to cry.

I thought I had killed her.

"Is your heart mine still, dear Dora?"

"O yes! O yes! it's all yours, oh, don't be dreadful."

"My dearest love, the crust well earned--"

"O yes; but I don't want to hear any more about crusts.

Time went on, and at last, here in this hand of mine, I held the wedding license. We had an
awful time of it with Mary Anne.

"My love, because it's five, and we were to have dined at four."

"Why not, my love?"

"O, because I am such a little goose, and she knows I am!"

"My precious wife, we must be serious some times. Now, is it?"

"N-n-no!"

"My love, how you tremble!"

"Because, I know you're going to scold me."

"My sweet, I am only going to reason."

"O, but reasoning is worse than scolding!

"Dora, my darling!"

"No, I am not your darling. Because you must be sorry that you married me, or else you wouldn't
reason with me!"

"Now, my dear Dora, you must know that I never said that!"

"You said I wasn't comfortable!"

"I said the housekeeping was not comfortable!"

"It's exactly the same thing! and I wonder, I do, at your making such ungrateful speeches.
And you said I was a Mouse."

"And I'll say so again, my love, a thousand times!"

"I am very sorry for all this, Doady. Will you call me a name I want you to call me?"

"What is it, my dear?"

"It's a stupid name,--Child-wife.

COUNT GISMOND

ROBERT BROWNING

     Christ God, who savest man, save most
         Of men Count Gismond who saved me!

     And doubtlessly ere he could draw
         All points to one, he must have schemed!
     That miserable morning saw
         Few half so happy as I seemed,
     While being dressed in queen's array
     To give our tourney prize away.

     I thought they loved me, did me grace
         To please themselves; 'twas all their deed;
     God makes, or fair or foul, our face;
         If showing mine so caused to bleed
     My cousins' hearts, they should have dropped
     A word, and straight the play had stopped.

     They, too, so beauteous!

     Howe'er that be, all eyes were bent
         Upon me, when my cousins cast
     Theirs down; 'twas time I should present
         The victor's crown, but ... there, 'twill last
     No long time ... the old mist again
     Blinds me as it did then. How vain!

     See! Gismond's at the gate, in talk
         With his two boys: I can proceed. Let her cleave to right,
     Or lay herself before our feet!
         Shall she who sinned so bold at night
     Unblushing, queen it in the day?
     For honor's sake, no crowns, I say!"

     I? What I answered? As I live,
         I never fancied such a thing
     As answer possible to give.
         What says the body when they spring
     Some monstrous torture-engine's whole
     Strength on it? No more says the soul. Pass the rest
     Until I sank upon his breast.

     Over my head his arm he flung
         Against the world; and scarce I felt
     His sword (that dripped by me and swung)
         A little shifted in its belt;
     For he began to say the while
     How South our home lay many a mile.

     So 'mid the shouting multitude
         We two walked forth to never more
     Return. My cousins have pursued
         Their life, untroubled as before
     I vexed them. Gauthier's dwelling-place
     God lighten! May his soul find grace!

THE DEATH OF ARBACES[4]

EDWARD BULWER LYTTON

In the eventful year of the eruption of Vesuvius, there lived in Pompeii a young Greek by the
name of Glaucus. His ideals in life were high. At last he discovered the long-sought idol of
his dreams in the person of Ione, a beautiful, young Neapolitan, also of Greek parentage, who
had lately come to Pompeii. No wonder that the friendship of these two ripened into a higher
love than that which served a theme for the idle gossip of the Roman baths, or the epicurean
board of a Sallust or a Diomede.

Arbaces, the legal guardian of Ione, was a subtle, crafty, cunning Egyptian, whose conscience
was solely of the intellect awed by no moral laws. His great wealth and learning, and his reputation
as a magician gave him great power and influence over not only the superstitious worshipers,
but also the priesthood of Isis. Shrouding the deceit and vices of a heathen metaphysical philosophy
in a brilliant and imposing ceremonial, Arbaces was the better able to gratify his own desires
and work out his diabolical scheme.

As Ione just ripened into beautiful womanhood, Arbaces determined to claim her life and her
love for himself alone; but his first overture not only met with rebuff, but revealed the fact
that she already loved Glaucus. Angered by a fate which not even his dark sorcery could remove,
and which the prophecy of the stars had foretold, he is further enraged by the violent opposition
of Apæcides, the brother of Ione, who on his own account threatens and has prepared to expose
the lewd deceits and hypocrisy of the worship of Isis. Arbaces murders Apæcides, imprisons
the priest Calenus, the only witness of the deed, and with great cunning weaves a convicting
net of circumstantial evidence around Glaucus, his hated rival. Glaucus is tried, convicted
and doomed to be thrown to the lion.

The day of the sports of the amphitheater had come. The gladiatorial fights and other games
were completed. "Bring forth the lion and Glaucus the Athenian," said the editor. "Worthy officer,
I attend you."

When he came into the air its breath, which, though sunless, was hot and arid, smote witheringly
upon him.

"The priest Calenus,--Calenus," cried the mob. "Is it he?"

"It is the priest Calenus," said the prætor. "What hast thou to say?"

"Calenus, priest of Isis, thou accusest Arbaces of the murder of Apæcides?"

"I do."

"Thou didst behold the deed?"

"Prætor--with these eyes--"

"Enough at present--the details must be reserved for more suiting time and place.

"To the lion with the Egyptian!" cried the people. The people had been already rendered savage.

Glaucus paced swiftly up the perilous and fearful streets, having learned that Ione was yet
in the house of Arbaces. Thither he fled to release--to save her! He rescued her and they made
their way to the sea, boarded a vessel and were saved from the wrath of Vesuvius.

Arbaces returned to his house to seek his wealth and Ione ere he fled from the doomed Pompeii.
He found them not; all was lost to him. In the madness of despair he rushed forth and hurried
along the street he knew not whither; exhausted or lost he halted at the east end of the Forum.
The prophecy of the stars was fulfilled!

FOOTNOTE:

[4] An adaptation by R. I. Fulton from the "Last Days of Pompeii."

DORA

ALFRED LORD TENNYSON

     With farmer Allan at the farm abode
     William and Dora. William was his son,
     And she his niece. He often look'd at them,
     And often thought, "I'll make them man and wife."
     Now Dora felt her uncle's will in all,
     And yearn'd toward William; but the youth, because
     He had been always with her in the house,
     Thought not of Dora.

                           Then there came a day
     When Allan call'd his son, and said, "My son,
     I married late, but I would wish to see
     My grandchild on my knees before I die;
     And I have set my heart upon a match.
     Now therefore look to Dora; she is well
     To look to; thrifty too beyond her age.
     She is my brother's daughter; he and I
     Had once hard words, and parted, and he died
     In foreign lands; but for his sake I bred
     His daughter Dora. Take her for your wife;
     For I have wish'd this marriage, night and day,
     For many years." But William answer'd short;
     "I cannot marry Dora; by my life,
     I will not marry Dora." Then the old man
     Was wroth, and doubled up his hands, and said,
     "You will not, boy! you dare to answer thus!
     But in my time a father's word was law,
     And so it shall be now for me. Look to it;
     Consider, William, take a month to think,
     And let me have an answer to my wish;
     Or, by the Lord that made me, you shall pack,
     And never more darken my doors again."
     But William answer'd madly; bit his lips,
     And broke away. The more he look'd at her
     The less he liked her; and his ways were harsh;
     But Dora bore them meekly. Then before
     The month was out he left his father's house,
     And hired himself to work within the fields;
     And half in love, half spite, he woo'd and wed
     A laborer's daughter, Mary Morrison.
       Then, when the bells were ringing, Allan call'd
     His niece and said, "My girl, I love you well;
     But if you speak with him that was my son,
     Or change a word with her he calls his wife,
     My home is none of yours. My will is law."
     And Dora promised, being meek. She thought,
     "It cannot be, my uncle's mind will change!"
       And days went on, and there was born a boy
     To William; then distresses came on him;
     And day by day he pass'd his father's gate,
     Heart-broken, and his father help'd him not.
     But Dora stored what little she could save,
     And sent it them by stealth, nor did they know
     Who sent it; till at last a fever seized
     On William, and in harvest time he died.
       Then Dora went to Mary. Mary sat
     And look'd with tears upon her boy, and thought
     Hard things of Dora. Dora came and said,
       "I have obey'd my uncle until now,
     And I have sinn'd, for it was all thro' me
     This evil came on William at the first.
     But, Mary, for the sake of him that's gone,
     And for your sake, the woman that he chose,
     And for this orphan, I am come to you.
     You know there has not been for these five years
     So full a harvest; let me take the boy,
     And I will set him in my uncle's eye
     Among the wheat; that when his heart is glad
     Of the full harvest, he may see the boy,
     And bless him for the sake of him that's gone."
       And Dora took the child, and went her way
     Across the wheat, and sat upon a mound
     That was unsown, where many poppies grew.
     Far off the farmer came into the field
     And spied her not; for none of all his men
     Dare tell him Dora waited with the child;
     And Dora would have risen and gone to him,
     But her heart fail'd her; and the reapers reap'd,
     And the sun fell, and all the land was dark.
       But when the morrow came, she rose and took
     The child once more, and sat upon the mound;
     And made a little wreath of all the flowers
     That grew about, and tied it round his hat
     To make him pleasing in her uncle's eye.
     Then when the farmer pass'd into the field
     He spied her, and he left his men at work,
     And came and said, "Where were you yesterday?
     Whose child is that? What are you doing here?"
     So Dora cast her eyes upon the ground,
     And answer'd softly, "This is William's child!"
     "And did I not," said Allan, "did I not
     Forbid you, Dora?" Dora said again,
     "Do with me as you will, but take the child,
     And bless him for the sake of him that's gone!"
     And Allan said, "I see it is a trick
     Got up betwixt you and the woman there.
     I must be taught my duty, and by you!
     You knew my word was law, and yet you dared
     To slight it. Well--for I will take the boy,
     But go you hence, and never see me more."
       So saying, he took the boy that cried aloud
     And struggled hard. The wreath of flowers fell
     At Dora's, feet. She bow'd upon her hands,
     And the boy's cry came to her from the field,
     More and more distant. She bow'd down her head,
     Remembering the day when first she came,
     And all the things that had been. She bow'd down
     And wept in secret; and the reapers reap'd,
     And the sun fell, and all the land was dark.
       Then Dora went to Mary's house, and stood
     Upon the threshold. Mary saw the boy
     Was not with Dora. She broke out in praise
     To God, that help'd her in her widowhood.