How it was that he had fallen into such a plight was still more or less mysterious to a dull
brain. Up to the age of forty-seven, he had been employed on his father's land, with little
more than the wages of a labourer, possessing but small authority over the men working on the
farm, and no liberty but such as the will of a tyrannical master allowed him. Then suddenly
the father died, and Brand succeeded to the farm. All his long-checked manhood asserted itself.
There was a brief period of drinking, betting, and high living. The old man had left a small
sum of ready money in the bank, which to the son, who had always been denied the handling of
money, seemed riches. It was soon spent, and then unexpected burdens and claims disclosed themselves.
There was a debt to the bank, which there were no means of paying. And he discovered to his
dismay that a spinster cousin of his mother's had lent money to his father within the preceding
five years, on the security of his stock and furniture. Where the borrowed money had gone no
one knew, but the spinster cousin, alarmed perhaps by exaggerated accounts of the new man's
drinking habits, pressed for repayment.

Brand set his teeth, ceased to spend money, and did his best to earn it. But he was a stupid
man, and the leading-strings in which his life had been held up to middle age had enfeebled
such natural powers as he possessed. His knowledge was old-fashioned, his methods slovenly;
and his wife, as harmless as himself, but no cleverer, could do nothing to help him. By dint,
however, of living and working hard he got through two or three years, and might just have
escaped his fate--for his creditors, at that stage, were all ready to give him time--had not
ill-fortune thrown him across the path of Edmund Melrose. The next farm to his belonged to
the Threlfall estate. Melrose's methods as a landlord had thrown out one tenant after another,
till he could do nothing but put in a bailiff and work it himself. The bailiff was incompetent,
and a herd of cattle made their way one morning through a broken fence that no one had troubled
to mend, and did serious damage to Brand's standing crops. Melrose was asked to compensate,
and flatly declined. The fence was no doubt his; but he claimed that it had been broken by
one of Brand's men. Hence the accident. The statement was false, and the evidence supporting
it corrupt. Moreover the whole business was only the last of a series of unneighbourly acts
on the part both of the bailiff and landowner, and a sudden fury blazed up in Brand's slow
mind. He took his claim to the county court and won his case; the judge allowing himself a
sharp sentence or two on the management of the Threlfall property. Brand spent part of his
compensation money in entertaining a group of friends at a Pengarth public. But that was the
last of his triumph. Thenceforward things went mysteriously wrong with him. His creditors,
first one, then all, began to tighten their pressure on him; and presently the bank manager--the
Jove of Brand's little world--passed abruptly from civility or indulgence, to a peremptory
reminder that debts were meant to be paid. A fresh bill of sale on furniture and stock staved
off disaster for a time. But a bad season brought it once more a long step nearer, and the
bank, however urgently appealed to, showed itself adamant, not only as to any further advance,
but as to any postponement of their own claim. Various desperate expedients only made matters
worse, and after a few more wretched months during which his farm deteriorated, and his business
went still further to wreck, owing largely to his own distress of mind, Brand threw up the
sponge. He sold his small remaining interest in his farm, which did not even suffice to pay
his debts, and went out of it a bankrupt and broken man, prematurely aged. A neighbouring squire,
indignant with what was commonly supposed to be the secret influences at work in the affair,
offered him the post of bailiff in a vacant farm; and he and his family migrated to the new-built
cottage on the Ullswater road.

As to these secret influences, they were plain enough to many people. Melrose who had been
present on the day when the case was tried had left the court-house in a fury, in company with
a certain ill-famed solicitor, one Nash, who had worked up the defence, and had served the
master of Threlfall before in various litigations connected with his estates, such as the respectable
family lawyers in Carlisle and Pengarth would have nothing to do with. Nash told his intimates
that night that Brand would rue his audacity, and the prophecy soon dismally fulfilled itself.
The local bank to which Brand owed money had been accustomed for years to deal with very large
temporary balances--representing the rents of half the Threlfall estates. Nash was well known
to the manager, as one of those backstairs informants, indispensable in a neighbourhood where
every farmer wanted advances--now on his crops--now on his stock--and the leading bank could
only escape losses by the maintenance of a surprising amount of knowledge as to each man's
circumstances and character. Nash was observed on one or two occasions going in and out of
the bank's private room, at moments corresponding with some of the worst crises of Brand's
fortunes. And with regard to other creditors, no one could say precisely how they were worked
on, but they certainly showed a surprising readiness to join in the harrying of a struggling
and helpless man.

In any case Brand believed, and had good cause for believing, that he had been ruined by Melrose
in revenge for the county court action. His two sons believed it also.

The tired man sat brooding over these things in the little hot room. His wife came in, and
stood at the door observing him, twisting her apron in a pair of wet hands.

"Yo'll have your tea?"

"Aye. Where are t' lads?"

"Johnnie's gotten his papers. He's gane oot to speak wi' the schoolmaster. He's thinkin' o'
takkin' his passage for t' laast week in t' year."

Brand made no reply. Johnnie, the elder son, was the apple of his eye. But an uncle had offered
him half his passage to Quebec, and his parents could not stand in the way.

"An' Will?"

"He's cleanin' hissel'."

As she spoke, wavering steps were heard on the stairs, and while she returned to her kitchen
the younger son, Will Brand, opened the door of the front room.

He was a lanky, loose-jointed youth of twenty, with a long hatchet face. His movements were
strangely clumsy, and his eye wandered. The neighbours had always regarded him as feeble-witted;
and about a year before this time an outburst of rough practical joking on the lad's part--sudden
jumpings out from hedges to frighten school-children going home, or the sudden whoopings and
howlings of a white-sheeted figure, for the startling of lovers in the gloaming--had drawn
the attention of the Whitebeck policeman to his "queerness." Only his parents knew of what
fits of rage he was capable.

He wore now, as he came into the living-room, an excited, quasi-triumphant look, which did
not escape his father.

"What you been after, Will?"

"Helpin' Wilson."

Wilson was a neighbouring keeper, who in June and July, before the young pheasants were returned
to the woods, occasionally employed Will Brand as a watcher, especially at night.

Brand made no reply. His wife brought in the tea, and he and Will helped themselves greedily.
Presently Will said abruptly:

"A've made that owd gun work all right."

"Aye?" Brand's tone was interrogative, but listless.

"I shot a kestrel an' a stoat wi' un this morning."

"Yo'did, eh?"

Will nodded, his mouth crammed with bread and butter, strange lights and flickering expressions
playing over his starved, bony face.

"Wilson says I'm gettin' a varra fair shot."

"Aye? I've heard tha' practisin'." Brand turned a pair of dull eyes upon his son.

"An' I wish tha' wudn't do't i' my garden!" said Mrs. Brand, with energy. "I doan't howd wi'
guns an' shootin' aboot, in a sma' garden, wi' t' washin' an' aw."

"It's feyther's garden, ain't it, as long as he pays t' rent!" said Will, bringing his hand
down on the table with sudden passion. "Wha's to hinder me? Mebbe yo' think Melrose 'ull be aboot."

"Howd your tongue, Willie," said his mother, mildly. "We werena taakin' o' Melrose."

"Noa--because we're aye thinkin'!"

The lad's eyes blazed as he roughly pushed his cup for a fresh supply. His mother endeavoured
to soothe him by changing the subject. But neither husband nor son encouraged her. A gloomy
silence fell over the tea-table. Presently Brand moved, and with halting step went to the little
horsehair sofa, and stretched himself full length upon it. Such an action on his part was unheard
of. Both wife and son stared at him without speaking. Then Mrs. Brand got up, fetched an old
shawl, and put it over her husband who had closed his eyes. Will left the room, and sitting
on a stool outside the cottage door, with the old gun between his knees, he watched the sunset
as it flushed the west, and ran along the fell-tops, till little by little the summer night
rose from the purple valley, or fell softly from the emerging stars, and day was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

A fortnight later, Mr. Louis Delorme, the famous portrait painter, arrived at Duddon Castle.
Various guests had been invited to meet him. Two guests--members of the Tatham family--had
invited themselves, much to Lady Tatham's annoyance. And certain neighbours were coming to
dine; among them Mrs. Penfold and her daughters.

Dinner was laid in a white-pillared loggia, built by an "Italianate" Lord Tatham in the eighteenth
century on the western side of the house, communicating with the dining-room behind it, and
with the Italian garden in front. It commanded the distant blue line of the Keswick and Ullswater
mountains, and a foreground of wood and crag, while the Italian garden to which the marble
steps of the loggia descended, with its formal patterns of bright colour, blue, purple, and
crimson, lay burning in the afterglow of sunset light, which, in a northern July, will let
you read till ten o'clock.

The guests gathered on the circle of smooth-shaven grass that in the centre made a space around
a fountain, with a gleaming water nymph. A broad grass pathway led them to the house, so that
guests emerging from it arrived in rather spectacular fashion--well seen, against the ivied
walls of the castle, to the unfair advantage, as usual, of grace and good looks.

Before hostess or neighbours appeared, however, Mr. Delorme and a certain Gerald Tatham, Lady
Tatham's brother-in-law, had the green circle to themselves. Gerald Tatham was one of the uninvited
guests. He considered himself entitled to descend on Duddon twice a year, and generally left
it having borrowed money of his nephew, in elaborate forgetfulness of a similar transaction
twelve months earlier still undischarged. He was married, but his wife did not pay visits with
him. Victoria greatly preferred her--plain and silent as she was--to her husband; but realizing
what a relief it must be to a woman to get such a man off her hands as often as possible, she
never pressed her to come to Duddon. Meanwhile Gerald Tatham passed as an agreeable person,
well versed in all those affairs of his neighbours which they would gladly have kept to themselves,
and possessed of certain odd pockets of knowledge, sporting or financial, which helped him
to earn the honest or doubtful pennies on which his existence depended.

Delorme and he got on excellently. Gerald respected the painter as a person whose brush, in
a strangely constituted world, was able to supply him with an income which even the sons of
land or commerce might envy; and secretly despised him for a lack of grandfathers, for his
crop of black curls, his southern complexion and his foreign birth. Delorme thought Gerald
an idler of no account, and perceived in him the sure signs of a decadence which was rapidly
drawing the English aristocratic class into the limbo of things that were. But Gerald was an
insatiable hawker of gossip; and a fashionable painter, with an empire among young and pretty
women, must keep himself well stocked with that article.

So the two walked up and down together, talking pleasantly enough. Presently Delorme, sweeping
a powerful hand before him, exclaimed on the beauty of the castle and its surroundings.

"Yes--a pretty place," said Gerald, carelessly, "and, for once, money enough to keep it up."

"Your nephew is a lucky fellow. Why don't they marry him."

"No hurry! When it does come off my sister-in-law will do something absurd."

"Something sentimental? I'll bet you she doesn't! Democracy is all very well--except when it
comes to marriage. Then even idealists like Lady Tatham knock under."

"I wish you may be right. Anyway, she won't send him to New York!"

"No need! Blue blood--impoverished!--that's my forecast."

Gerald smiled--ungenially.

"Victoria would positively dislike an heiress. Jolly easy to take that sort of line--on forty
thousand a year! But as to birth, the family, in my opinion, has a right to be considered."

Delorme hesitated a moment, then threw a provocative look at his companion, the look of the
alien to whom English assumptions are sometimes intolerable.

"Pretty mixed--your stocks--some of them--by now!"

"Not ours. You'd find, if you looked into it, that we've descended very straight. There's been
no carelessness."

Delorme threw up his hands.

"Good heavens! Carelessness, as you call it, is the only hope for a family nowadays. A strong
blood--that's what you want--a blood that will stand this modern life--and you'll never get
that by mating in and in. Ah! here come the others."

They turned, and saw a stream of people coming round the corner of the house. The rector and
Mrs. Deacon--the gold cross on the rector's waistcoat shining in the diffused light. Lady Barbara
Woolson, the other uninvited guest, Victoria's first cousin; a young man in a dinner jacket
and black tie walking with Lady Tatham; a Madonnalike woman in black, hand in hand with a tall
schoolboy; and two elderly gentlemen.

But in front--some little way in front--there walked a pair for whom all the rest appeared
to be mere escort and attendance; so vivid, so charged with meaning they seemed, among the
summer flowers, and under the summer sky.

A slender girl in white, and a tall youth looking down upon her, treading the grass just slightly
in advance of her, with a happy deference, as though he led in the fairy queen. So delicate
were her proportions, so bright her hair, and so compelling the charm that floated round her,
that Delorme, dropping his cigarette, hastily put up his eyeglasses, and fell into his native
tongue.

"Sapristi!--quelle petite fée avez-vous là?"

"My sister-in-law talked of some neighbours--"

"Mais elle entre en reine! My dear fellow, it looks dangerous."

Gerald pulled his moustaches, looking hard at the advancing pair.

"A pretty little minx--I must have it out with Victoria." But his tone was doubtful. It was
not easy to have things out with Victoria.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dinner under the loggia went gaily. Not many courses; much fruit; a shimmer of tea-roses
before the guests; and the scent of roses blowing in from the garden outside.

Victoria had Delorme on her right, and Lydia sat next the great man. Tatham could only glance
at her from afar. On his right, he had his cousin, Lady Barbara, whom he cordially disliked.
Her yearly visit, always fixed and announced by herself, was a time of trial both for him and
his mother, but they endured it out of a sentimental and probably mistaken belief that the
late Lord Tatham had--in her youth--borne her a cousinly affection. Lady Barbara was a committee-woman,
indefatigable, and indiscriminate. She lived and gloried in a chronic state of overwork, for
which no one but herself saw the necessity. Her conversation about it only confirmed the frivolous
persons whom she tried to convert to "social service," in their frivolity. After a quarter
of an hour's conversation with her, Tatham was generally dumb, and as nearly rude as his temperament
allowed. While, as to his own small efforts, his cottages, County Council, and the rest, no
blandishments would have drawn from him a word about them; although, like many of us, Lady
Barbara would gladly have purchased leave to talk about her own achievements by a strictly
moderate amount of listening to other people's.

On his other side sat a very different person--the sweet-faced lady, whose boy of fourteen
sitting opposite kept up with her through dinner a shy telegraphy of eye and smile. They were
evidently alone in the world, and everything to each other. She was a widow--a Mrs. Edward
Manisty, whose husband, a brilliant but selfish man of letters, had died some four years before
this date. His wife had never found out that he was selfish; her love had haloed him; though
she had plenty of character of her own. She herself was an American, a New Englander by birth,
carrying with her still the perfume of a quiet life begun among the hills of Vermont, and in
sight of the Adirondacks; a life fundamentally Puritan and based on Puritan ideals; yet softened
and expanded by the modern forces of art, travel, and books. Lucy Manisty had attracted her
husband, when he, a weary cosmopolitan, had met her first in Rome, by just this touch of something
austerely sweet, like the scent of lavender or dewy grass; and she had it still--mingled with
a kind humour--in her middle years, which were so lonely but for her boy. She and Victoria
Tatham had made friends on the warm soil of Italy, and through a third person, a rare and charming
woman, whose death had first made them really known to each other.

"I never saw anything so attractive!" Mrs. Manisty was murmuring in Tatham's ear.

He followed the direction of her eyes, and his fair skin reddened.

"She is very pretty, isn't she?"

"Very--like a Verrocchio angel--who has been to college! She is an artist?"

"She paints. She admires Delorme."

"That one can see. And he admires her!"

"We--my mother--wants him to paint her."

"He will--if he knows his own business."

"A Miss Penfold?" said Lady Barbara, putting up her eyeglass. "You say she paints. The modern
girl must always do something! My girls have been brought up for home."

A remark that drove Tatham into a rash defence of the modern girl to which he was quite unequal,
and in which indeed he was half-hearted, for his fundamental ideas were quite as old-fashioned
as Lady Barbara's. But Lydia, for him, was of no date; only charm itself, one with all the
magic and grace that had ever been in the world, or would be.

Suddenly he saw that she was looking at him--a bright, signalling look, only to tell him how
hugely well she was getting on with Delorme. He smiled in return, but inwardly he was discontented.
Always this gay camaraderie--like a boy's. Not the slightest tremor in it. Not a touch of consciousness--or
of sex. He could not indeed have put it so. All he knew was that he was always thirstily seeking
something she showed no signs of giving him.

But he himself was being rapidly swept off his feet. Since their meeting at Threlfall, which
had been interrupted by Melrose's freakish return, there had been other meetings, as delightful
as before, yet no more conclusive or encouraging. He and Lydia had indeed grown intimate. He
had revealed to her thoughts and feelings which he had unveiled for no one else--not even for
Victoria--since he was a boy at school with boyish friendships. And she had handled them with
such delicacy, such sweetness; such frankness too, in return as to her own "ideas," those stubborn
intractable ideas, which made him frown to think of. Yet all the time--he knew it--there had
been no flirting on her part. Never had she given him the smallest ground to think her in love
with him. On the contrary, she had maintained between them for all her gentleness, from beginning
to end, that soft, intangible barrier which at once checked and challenged him.

Passion ran high in him. And, moreover, he was beginning to be more than vaguely jealous. He
had seen for himself how much there was in common between her and Faversham; during the last
fortnight he had met Faversham at the cottage on several occasions; and there had been references
to other visits from the new agent. He understood perfectly that Lydia was broadly, humanly
interested in the man's task: the poet, the enthusiast in her was stirred by what he might
do, if he would, for the humble folk she loved. But still, there they were--meeting constantly.
"And he can talk to her about all the things I can't!"

His earlier optimism had quite passed by now; probably, though unconsciously, under the influence
of Lydia's nascent friendship with Faversham. There had sprung up in him instead a constant
agitation and disquiet that could no longer be controlled. No help--but rather danger--lay
in waiting....

Delorme had now turned away from Lydia to his hostess, and Lydia was talking to Squire Andover
on her other side, a jolly old boy, with a gracious, absent look, who inclined his head to
her paternally. Tatham knew very well that there was no one in the county who was more rigidly
tied to caste or rank. But he was kind always to the outsider--kind therefore to Lydia. Good
heavens!--as if there was any one at the table fit to tie her shoe-string!

His pulses raced. The heat, the golden evening, the flowers, all the lavish colour and scents
of nature, seemed to be driving him toward speech--toward some expression of himself, which
must be risked, even if it lead him to disaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dinner which appeared to Tatham interminable, and was really so short, by Victoria's orders,
that Squire Andover felt resentfully he had had nothing to eat, at last broke up. The gentlemen
lingered smoking on the loggia. The ladies dispersed through the garden, and Delorme--after
a look round the male company--quietly went with them. So did the gentleman in the dinner jacket
and black tie. Tatham, impatiently doing his duty as host, could only follow the fugitives
with his eyes, their pale silks and muslins, among the flowers and under the trees.

But his guests, over their cigars, were busy with some local news, and, catching Faversham's
name, Tatham presently recalled his thoughts sufficiently to listen to what was being said.
The topic, naturally, was Faversham's appointment. Every landowner there was full of it. He
had been seen in Brampton on market day driving in a very decent motor; and since his accession
he had succeeded in letting two or three of the derelict farms, on a promise of repairs and
improvements which had been at last wrung out of Melrose. It was rumoured also that the most
astonishing things were happening in the house and the gardens.

"Who on earth is the man, and where does he come from?" asked a short, high-shouldered man
with a blunt, pugnacious face. He was an ex-officer, a J.P., and one of the most active Conservative
wire-pullers of the neighbourhood. He and Victoria Tatham were the best of friends. They differed
on almost all subjects. He was a mass of prejudices, large and small, and Victoria laughed
at him. But when she wanted to help any particularly lame dog over any particularly high stile,
she always went to Colonel Barton. A cockney doctor attached to the Workhouse had once described
him to her as--'eart of gold, 'edd of feathers'--and the label had stuck.

"A Londoner, picked up badly hurt on the road, by Undershaw, I understand, and carried into
the lion's den," said Andover, in answer to Barton. "And now they say he is obtaining the most
extraordinary influence over the old boy."

"And the house--turned into a perfect palace!" said the rector, throwing up his hands.

The others, except Tatham, crowded eagerly round, while the rector described a visit he had
paid to Faversham, within a few days of the agent's appointment, on behalf of a farmer's widow,
a parishioner, under notice to quit.

"Hadn't been in the house for twenty years. The place is absolutely transformed! It used to
be a pigsty. Now Faversham's rooms are fit for a prince. Nothing short of one of your rooms
here"--he addressed Tatham, with a laughing gesture toward the house--"comparable to his sitting-room.
Priceless things in it! And close by, an excellent office, with room for two clerks--one already
at work--piles of blue-books, pamphlets, heavens knows what! And they are fitting up a telephone
between Threlfall and some new rooms that he has taken for estate business in Pengarth."

"A telephone--at Threlfall!" murmured Andover.

"And Undershaw tells me that Melrose has taken the most extraordinary fancy for the young man.
Everything is done for him. He may have anything he likes. And, rumour says--an enormous salary!"

"Sounds like an adventurer," grumbled Barton, "probably is."

Tatham broke in. "No, you're wrong there, Colonel. I knew Faversham at college. He's a very
decent fellow--and awfully clever."

Yet, somehow, his praise stuck in his throat.

"Well, of course," said Andover with a shrug, "if he is a decent fellow, as Tatham says, he
won't stay long. Do you imagine Melrose is going to change his spots?--not he!"

"Somebody must really go and talk to this chap," said Barton gloomily. "I believe Melrose will
lose us the next election up here. You really can't expect people to vote for Tories, if Tories
are that sort."

The talk flowed on. But Tatham had ceased to listen. For some little time there had been no
voices or steps in the garden outside. They had melted into the wood beyond. But now they had
returned. He perceived a white figure against a distant background of clipped yew.

Rising joyously he threw down his cigarette.

"Shall we join the ladies?"

"I say, you've had a dose of Delorme."

For he had found her still with the painter, who as soon as Tatham appeared had subsided languidly
into allowing Lady Barbara to talk to him.

"Oh! but so amusing!" cried Lydia, her face twinkling. "We've picked all the Academy to pieces
and danced on their bones."

"Has he asked you to sit to him?"

Lydia hesitated, and in the soft light he saw her flush.

"He said something. Of course it would be a great, great honour!"

"An honour to him," said Tatham hotly.

