  |                                 |                                 |
  |PROVED FACTS.                  |NECESSARY CONSEQUENCES         |
  |                                 |(afterwards taken as Proved     |
  |                                 |Facts).                         |
  |||
  |                                 |                                 |
  |RAPID INCREASE OF ORGANISMS,     |                                 |
  |pp. 29, 265; ("Origin            |STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE,          |
  |of Species," p. 75, 5th Ed.)     |the deaths equalling the         |
  |                                 |births on the average, p. 30;    |
  |TOTAL NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS      |("Origin of Species," chap.      |
  |STATIONARY, pp. 30,              |III.)                            |
  |266.                             |                                 |
  |||
  |                                 |                                 |
  |STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE.          |SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST,         |
  |                                 |or Natural Selection; meaning    |
  |HEREDITY WITH VARIATION,         |simply, that on the              |
  |or general likeness with         |whole those die who are          |
  |individual differences of parents|least fitted to maintain their   |
  |and offspring, pp.               |existence; ("Origin of Species," |
  |266, 287-291, 308; ("Origin      |chap. IV.)                       |
  |of Species," chap. I., II., V.)  |                                 |
  |||
  |                                 |                                 |
  |SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.         |CHANGES OF ORGANIC FORMS,        |
  |                                 |to keep them in harmony          |
  |CHANGE OF EXTERNAL CONDITIONS,   |with the Changed Conditions;     |
  |universal and unceasing.--See    |and as the changes               |
  |"Lyell's                         |of conditions are permanent      |
  |Principles of Geology."

Among the most advanced students of man, there exists a wide difference of opinion on some
of the most vital questions respecting his nature and origin. Anthropologists are now, indeed,
pretty well agreed that man is not a recent introduction into the earth. All who have studied
the question, now admit that his antiquity is very great; and that, though we have to some
extent ascertained the minimum of time during which he must have existed, we have made no approximation
towards determining that far greater period during which he may have, and probably has existed.
We can with tolerable certainty affirm that man must have inhabited the earth a thousand centuries
ago, but we cannot assert that he positively did not exist, or that there is any good evidence
against his having existed, for a period of ten thousand centuries. We know positively, that
he was contemporaneous with many now extinct animals, and has survived changes of the earth's
surface fifty or a hundred times greater than any that have occurred during the historical
period; but we cannot place any definite limit to the number of species he may have outlived,
or to the amount of terrestrial change he may have witnessed.

Wide differences of opinion as to Man's Origin.

But while on this question of man's antiquity there is a very general agreement,--and all are
waiting eagerly for fresh evidence to clear up those points which all admit to be full of doubt,--on
other, and not less obscure and difficult questions, a considerable amount of dogmatism is
exhibited; doctrines are put forward as established truths, no doubt or hesitation is admitted,
and it seems to be supposed that no further evidence is required, or that any new facts can
modify our convictions. This is especially the case when we inquire,--Are the various forms
under which man now exists primitive, or derived from pre-existing forms; in other words, is
man of one or many species? To this question we immediately obtain distinct answers diametrically
opposed to each other: the one party positively maintaining, that man is a species and is essentially
one--that all differences are but local and temporary variations, produced by the different
physical and moral conditions by which he is surrounded; the other party maintaining with equal
confidence, that man is a genus of many species, each of which is practically unchangeable,
and has ever been as distinct, or even more distinct, than we now behold them. This difference
of opinion is somewhat remarkable, when we consider that both parties are well acquainted with
the subject; both use the same vast accumulation of facts; both reject those early traditions
of mankind which profess to give an account of his origin; and both declare that they are seeking
fearlessly after truth alone; yet each will persist in looking only at the portion of truth
on his own side of the question, and at the error which is mingled with his opponent's doctrine.
It is my wish to show how the two opposing views can be combined, so as to eliminate the error
and retain the truth in each, and it is by means of Mr. Darwin's celebrated theory of "Natural
Selection" that I hope to do this, and thus to harmonise the conflicting theories of modern
anthropologists.

Let us first see what each party has to say for itself. In favour of the unity of mankind it
is argued, that there are no races without transitions to others; that every race exhibits
within itself variations of colour, of hair, of feature, and of form, to such a degree as to
bridge over, to a large extent, the gap that separates it from other races. It is asserted
that no race is homogeneous; that there is a tendency to vary; that climate, food, and habits
produce, and render permanent, physical peculiarities, which, though slight in the limited
periods allowed to our observation, would, in the long ages during which the human race has
existed, have sufficed to produce all the differences that now appear. It is further asserted
that the advocates of the opposite theory do not agree among themselves; that some would make
three, some five, some fifty or a hundred and fifty species of man; some would have had each
species created in pairs, while others require nations to have at once sprung into existence,
and that there is no stability or consistency in any doctrine but that of one primitive stock.

The advocates of the original diversity of man, on the other hand, have much to say for themselves.
They argue that proofs of change in man have never been brought forward except to the most
trifling amount, while evidence of his permanence meets us everywhere. The Portuguese and Spaniards,
settled for two or three centuries in South America, retain their chief physical, mental, and
moral characteristics; the Dutch boers at the Cape, and the descendants of the early Dutch
settlers in the Moluccas, have not lost the features or the colour of the Germanic races; the
Jews, scattered over the world in the most diverse climates, retain the same characteristic
lineaments everywhere; the Egyptian sculptures and paintings show us that, for at least 4000
or 5000 years, the strongly contrasted features of the Negro and the Semitic races have remained
altogether unchanged; while more recent discoveries prove, that the mound-builders of the Mississippi
valley, and the dwellers on Brazilian mountains, had, even in the very infancy of the human
race, some traces of the same peculiar and characteristic type of cranial formation that now
distinguishes them.

If we endeavour to decide impartially on the merits of this difficult controversy, judging
solely by the evidence that each party has brought forward, it certainly seems that the best
of the argument is on the side of those who maintain the primitive diversity of man. Their
opponents have not been able to refute the permanence of existing races as far back as we can
trace them, and have failed to show, in a single case, that at any former epoch the well marked
varieties of mankind approximated more closely than they do at the present day. At the same
time this is but negative evidence. A condition of immobility for four or five thousand years,
does not preclude an advance at an earlier epoch, and--if we can show that there are causes
in nature which would check any further physical change when certain conditions were fulfilled--does
not even render such an advance improbable, if there are any general arguments to be adduced
in its favour. Such a cause, I believe, does exist; and I shall now endeavour to point out
its nature and its mode of operation.

Outline of the Theory of Natural Selection.

In order to make my argument intelligible, it is necessary for me to explain very briefly the
theory of "Natural Selection" promulgated by Mr. Darwin, and the power which it possesses of
modifying the forms of animals and plants. The grand feature in the multiplication of organic
life is, that close general resemblance is combined with more or less individual variation.
The child resembles its parents or ancestors more or less closely in all its peculiarities,
deformities, or beauties; it resembles them in general more than it does any other individuals;
yet children of the same parents are not all alike, and it often happens that they differ very
considerably from their parents and from each other. This is equally true, of man, of all animals,
and of all plants. Moreover, it is found that individuals do not differ from their parents
in certain particulars only, while in all others they are exact duplicates of them. They differ
from them and from each other, in every particular: in form, in size, in colour; in the structure
of internal as well as of external organs; in those subtle peculiarities which produce differences
of constitution, as well as in those still more subtle ones which lead to modifications of
mind and character. In other words, in every possible way, in every organ and in every function,
individuals of the same stock vary.

Now, health, strength, and long life, are the results of a harmony between the individual and
the universe that surrounds it. Let us suppose that at any given moment this harmony is perfect.
A certain animal is exactly fitted to secure its prey, to escape from its enemies, to resist
the inclemencies of the seasons, and to rear a numerous and healthy offspring. But a change
now takes place. A series of cold winters, for instance, come on, making food scarce, and bringing
an immigration of some other animals to compete with the former inhabitants of the district.
The new immigrant is swift of foot, and surpasses its rivals in the pursuit of game; the winter
nights are colder, and require a thicker fur as a protection, and more nourishing food to keep
up the heat of the system. Our supposed perfect animal is no longer in harmony with its universe;
it is in danger of dying of cold or of starvation. But the animal varies in its offspring.
Some of these are swifter than others--they still manage to catch food enough; some are hardier
and more thickly furred--they manage in the cold nights to keep warm enough; the slow, the
weak, and the thinly clad soon die off. Again and again, in each succeeding generation, the
same thing takes place. By this natural process, which is so inevitable that it cannot be conceived
not to act, those best adapted to live, live; those least adapted, die. It is sometimes said
that we have no direct evidence of the action of this selecting power in nature. But it seems
to me we have better evidence than even direct observation would be, because it is more universal,
viz., the evidence of necessity. It must be so; for, as all wild animals increase in a geometrical
ratio, while their actual numbers remain on the average stationary, it follows, that as many
die annually as are born. If, therefore, we deny natural selection, it can only be by asserting
that, in such a case as I have supposed, the strong, the healthy, the swift, the well clad,
the well organised animals in every respect, have no advantage over,--do not on the average
live longer than, the weak, the unhealthy, the slow, the ill-clad, and the imperfectly organised
individuals; and this no sane man has yet been found hardy enough to assert. But this is not
all; for the offspring on the average resemble their parents, and the selected portion of each
succeeding generation will therefore be stronger, swifter, and more thickly furred than the
last; and if this process goes on for thousands of generations, our animal will have again
become thoroughly in harmony with the new conditions in which it is placed. But it will now
be a different creature. It will be not only swifter and stronger, and more furry, it will
also probably have changed in colour, in form, perhaps have acquired a longer tail, or differently
shaped ears; for it is an ascertained fact, that when one part of an animal is modified, some
other parts almost always change, as it were in sympathy with it. Mr. Darwin calls this "correlation
of growth," and gives as instances, that hairless dogs have imperfect teeth; white cats, when
blue-eyed, are deaf; small feet accompany short beaks in pigeons; and other equally interesting
cases.

Grant, therefore, the premises: 1st. That peculiarities of every kind are more or less hereditary.
2nd. That the offspring of every animal vary more or less in all parts of their organization.
3rd. That the universe in which these animals live, is not absolutely invariable;--none of
which propositions can be denied; and then consider, that the animals in any country (those
at least which are not dying out) must at each successive period be brought into harmony with
the surrounding conditions; and we have all the elements for a change of form and structure
in the animals, keeping exact pace with changes of whatever nature in the surrounding universe.
Such changes must be slow, for the changes in the universe are very slow; but just as these
slow changes become important, when we look at results after long periods of action, as we
do when we perceive the alterations of the earth's surface during geological epochs; so the
parallel changes in animal form become more and more striking, in proportion as the time they
have been going on is great; as we see when we compare our living animals with those which
we disentomb from each successively older geological formation.

This is, briefly, the theory of "natural selection," which explains the changes in the organic
world as being parallel with, and in part dependent on, those in the inorganic. What we now
have to inquire is,--Can this theory be applied in any way to the question of the origin of
the races of man? or is there anything in human nature that takes him out of the category of
those organic existences, over whose successive mutations it has had such powerful sway?

Different effects of Natural Selection on Animals and on Man.

In order to answer these questions, we must consider why it is that "natural selection" acts
so powerfully upon animals; and we shall, I believe, find, that its effect depends mainly upon
their self-dependence and individual isolation. A slight injury, a temporary illness, will
often end in death, because it leaves the individual powerless against its enemies. If an herbivorous
animal is a little sick and has not fed well for a day or two, and the herd is then pursued
by a beast of prey, our poor invalid inevitably falls a victim. So, in a carnivorous animal,
the least deficiency of vigour prevents its capturing food, and it soon dies of starvation.
There is, as a general rule, no mutual assistance between adults, which enables them to tide
over a period of sickness. Neither is there any division of labour; each must fulfil all the
conditions of its existence, and, therefore, "natural selection" keeps all up to a pretty uniform
standard.

But in man, as we now behold him, this is different. He is social and sympathetic. In the rudest
tribes the sick are assisted, at least with food; less robust health and vigour than the average
does not entail death. Neither does the want of perfect limbs, or other organs, produce the
same effects as among animals. Some division of labour takes place; the swiftest hunt, the
less active fish, or gather fruits; food is, to some extent, exchanged or divided. The action
of natural selection is therefore checked; the weaker, the dwarfish, those of less active limbs,
or less piercing eyesight, do not suffer the extreme penalty which falls upon animals so defective.

In proportion as these physical characteristics become of less importance, mental and moral
qualities will have increasing influence on the well-being of the race. Capacity for acting
in concert for protection, and for the acquisition of food and shelter; sympathy, which leads
all in turn to assist each other; the sense of right, which checks depredations upon our fellows;
the smaller development of the combative and destructive propensities; self-restraint in present
appetites; and that intelligent foresight which prepares for the future, are all qualities,
that from their earliest appearance must have been for the benefit of each community, and would,
therefore, have become the subjects of "natural selection." For it is evident that such qualities
would be for the well-being of man; would guard him against external enemies, against internal
dissensions, and against the effects of inclement seasons and impending famine, more surely
than could any merely physical modification. Tribes in which such mental and moral qualities
were predominant, would therefore have an advantage in the struggle for existence over other
tribes in which they were less developed, would live and maintain their numbers, while the
others would decrease and finally succumb.

Again, when any slow changes of physical geography, or of climate, make it necessary for an
animal to alter its food, its clothing, or its weapons, it can only do so by the occurrence
of a corresponding change in its own bodily structure and internal organization. If a larger
or more powerful beast is to be captured and devoured, as when a carnivorous animal which has
hitherto preyed on antelopes is obliged from their decreasing numbers to attack buffaloes,
it is only the strongest who can hold,--those with most powerful claws, and formidable canine
teeth, that can struggle with and overcome such an animal. Natural selection immediately comes
into play, and by its action these organs gradually become adapted to their new requirements.
But man, under similar circumstances, does not require longer nails or teeth, greater bodily
strength or swiftness. He makes sharper spears, or a better bow, or he constructs a cunning
pitfall, or combines in a hunting party to circumvent his new prey. The capacities which enable
him to do this are what he requires to be strengthened, and these will, therefore, be gradually
modified by "natural selection," while the form and structure of his body will remain unchanged.
So, when a glacial epoch comes on, some animals must acquire warmer fur, or a covering of fat,
or else die of cold. Those best clothed by nature are, therefore, preserved by natural selection.
Man, under the same circumstances, will make himself warmer clothing, and build better houses;
and the necessity of doing this will react upon his mental organization and social condition--will
advance them while his natural body remains naked as before.

When the accustomed food of some animal becomes scarce or totally fails, it can only exist
by becoming adapted to a new kind of food, a food perhaps less nourishing and less digestible.
"Natural selection" will now act upon the stomach and intestines, and all their individual
variations will be taken advantage of, to modify the race into harmony with its new food. In
many cases, however, it is probable that this cannot be done. The internal organs may not vary
quick enough, and then the animal will decrease in numbers, and finally become extinct. But
man guards himself from such accidents by superintending and guiding the operations of nature.
He plants the seed of his most agreeable food, and thus procures a supply, independent of the
accidents of varying seasons or natural extinction. He domesticates animals, which serve him
either to capture food or for food itself, and thus, changes of any great extent in his teeth
or digestive organs are rendered unnecessary. Man, too, has everywhere the use of fire, and
by its means can render palatable a variety of animal and vegetable substances, which he could
hardly otherwise make use of; and thus obtains for himself a supply of food far more varied
and abundant than that which any animal can command.

Thus man, by the mere capacity of clothing himself, and making weapons and tools, has taken
away from nature that power of slowly but permanently changing the external form and structure,
in accordance with changes in the external world, which she exercises over all other animals.
As the competing races by which they are surrounded, the climate, the vegetation, or the animals
which serve them for food, are slowly changing, they must undergo a corresponding change in
their structure, habits, and constitution, to keep them in harmony with the new conditions--to
enable them to live and maintain their numbers. But man does this by means of his intellect
alone, the variations of which enable him, with an unchanged body, still to keep in harmony
with the changing universe.

There is one point, however, in which nature will still act upon him as it does on animals,
and, to some extent, modify his external characters. Mr. Darwin has shown, that the colour
of the skin is correlated with constitutional peculiarities both in vegetables and animals,
so that liability to certain diseases or freedom from them is often accompanied by marked external
characters. Now, there is every reason to believe that this has acted, and, to some extent,
may still continue to act, on man. In localities where certain diseases are prevalent, those
individuals of savage races which were subject to them would rapidly die off; while those who
were constitutionally free from the disease would survive, and form the progenitors of a new
race. These favoured individuals would probably be distinguished by peculiarities of colour,
with which again peculiarities in the texture or the abundance of hair seem to be correlated,
and thus may have been brought about those racial differences of colour, which seem to have
no relation to mere temperature or other obvious peculiarities of climate.

From the time, therefore, when the social and sympathetic feelings came into active operation,
and the intellectual and moral faculties became fairly developed, man would cease to be influenced
by "natural selection" in his physical form and structure. As an animal he would remain almost
stationary, the changes of the surrounding universe ceasing to produce in him that powerful
modifying effect which they exercise over other parts of the organic world. But from the moment
that the form of his body became stationary, his mind would become subject to those very influences
from which his body had escaped; every slight variation in his mental and moral nature which
should enable him better to guard against adverse circumstances, and combine for mutual comfort
and protection, would be preserved and accumulated; the better and higher specimens of our
race would therefore increase and spread, the lower and more brutal would give way and successively
die out, and that rapid advancement of mental organization would occur, which has raised the
very lowest races of man so far above the brutes (although differing so little from some of
them in physical structure), and, in conjunction with scarcely perceptible modifications of
form, has developed the wonderful intellect of the European races.

Influence of external Nature in the development of the Human Mind.

But from the time when this mental and moral advance commenced, and man's physical character
became fixed and almost immutable, a new series of causes would come into action, and take
part in his mental growth. The diverse aspects of nature would now make themselves felt, and
profoundly influence the character of the primitive man.

When the power that had hitherto modified the body had its action transferred to the mind,
then races would advance and become improved, merely by the harsh discipline of a sterile soil
and inclement seasons. Under their influence, a hardier, a more provident, and a more social
race would be developed, than in those regions where the earth produces a perennial supply
of vegetable food, and where neither foresight nor ingenuity are required to prepare for the
rigours of winter. And is it not the fact that in all ages, and in every quarter of the globe,
the inhabitants of temperate have been superior to those of hotter countries? All the great
invasions and displacements of races have been from North to South, rather than the reverse;
and we have no record of there ever having existed, any more than there exists to-day, a solitary
instance of an indigenous inter-tropical civilization. The Mexican civilization and government
came from the North, and, as well as the Peruvian, was established, not in the rich tropical
plains, but on the lofty and sterile plateaux of the Andes. The religion and civilization of
Ceylon were introduced from North India; the successive conquerors of the Indian peninsula
came from the North-west; the northern Mongols conquered the more Southern Chinese; and it
was the bold and adventurous tribes of the North that overran and infused new life into Southern
Europe.

Extinction of Lower Races.

It is the same great law of "the preservation of favoured races in the struggle for life,"
which leads to the inevitable extinction of all those low and mentally undeveloped populations
with which Europeans come in contact. The red Indian in North America, and in Brazil; the Tasmanian,
Australian, and New Zealander in the southern hemisphere, die out, not from any one special
cause, but from the inevitable effects of an unequal mental and physical struggle. The intellectual
and moral, as well as the physical, qualities of the European are superior; the same powers
and capacities which have made him rise in a few centuries from the condition of the wandering
savage with a scanty and stationary population, to his present state of culture and advancement,
with a greater average longevity, a greater average strength, and a capacity of more rapid
increase,--enable him when in contact with the savage man, to conquer in the struggle for existence,
and to increase at his expense, just as the better adapted, increase at the expense of the
less adapted varieties in the animal and vegetable kingdoms,--just as the weeds of Europe overrun
North America and Australia, extinguishing native productions by the inherent vigour of their
organization, and by their greater capacity for existence and multiplication.

The Origin of the Races of Man.

If these views are correct; if in proportion as man's social, moral, and intellectual faculties
became developed, his physical structure would cease to be affected by the operation of "natural
selection," we have a most important clue to the origin of races. For it will follow, that
those great modifications of structure and of external form, which resulted in the development
of man out of some lower type of animal, must have occurred before his intellect had raised
him above the condition of the brutes, at a period when he was gregarious, but scarcely social,
with a mind perceptive but not reflective, ere any sense of right or feelings of sympathy had
been developed in him. He would be still subject, like the rest of the organic world, to the
action of "natural selection," which would retain his physical form and constitution in harmony
with the surrounding universe. He was probably at a very early period a dominant race, spreading
widely over the warmer regions of the earth as it then existed, and in agreement with what
we see in the case of other dominant species, gradually becoming modified in accordance with
local conditions. As he ranged farther from his original home, and became exposed to greater
extremes of climate, to greater changes of food, and had to contend with new enemies, organic
and inorganic, slight useful variations in his constitution would be selected and rendered
permanent, and would, on the principle of "correlation of growth," be accompanied by corresponding
external physical changes. Thus might have arisen those striking characteristics and special
modifications which still distinguish the chief races of mankind. The red, black, yellow, or
blushing white skin; the straight, the curly, the woolly hair; the scanty or abundant beard;
the straight or oblique eyes; the various forms of the pelvis, the cranium, and other parts
of the skeleton.

But while these changes had been going on, his mental development had, from some unknown cause,
greatly advanced, and had now reached that condition in which it began powerfully to influence
his whole existence, and would therefore become subject to the irresistible action of "natural
selection." This action would quickly give the ascendency to mind: speech would probably now
be first developed, leading to a still further advance of the mental faculties; and from that
moment man, as regards the form and structure of most parts of his body, would remain almost
stationary. The art of making weapons, division of labour, anticipation of the future, restraint
of the appetites, moral, social, and sympathetic feelings, would now have a preponderating
influence on his well being, and would therefore be that part of his nature on which "natural
selection" would most powerfully act; and we should thus have explained that wonderful persistence
of mere physical characteristics, which is the stumbling-block of those who advocate the unity
of mankind.

