Some of these generous spirits had organized, as early as 1813, under the auspices of Intendant
Ramirez, the Economic Society of Friends of the Country. Puerto Rico owes almost all its intellectual
progress to this society. Its aim was the island's moral and material advancement, and, in
spite of obstacles, it has nobly labored with that object in view to the end of Spanish domination.
From its very inception it established a primary school for 12 poor girls, and classes in mathematics,
geography, French, English, and drawing, to which a class of practical or applied mechanics
was added later. In 1844 the society asked and obtained permission from the governor, the Count
of Mirasol, to solicit subscriptions for the establishment and endowment of a central college.
The people responded with enthusiasm, and in less than a month 30,000 pesos were collected.

The college was opened. In 1846 four youths, under the guidance of Dr. Rufo, were sent to Spain
to complete their studies to enable them to worthily fill professorships in the central school.
Two of them died shortly after their arrival in Madrid. When the other two returned to Puerto
Rico in 1849 they found the college closed and the subscriptions for its maintenance returned
to the donors by order of Juan de la Pezuela, Count Mirasol's successor in the governorship.

If the unfavorable opinion of the character of the Puerto Ricans to which this personage gave
expression in one of his official communications was the motive for his proceeding in this
case, it would seem that he changed it toward the end of his administration, for he founded
a Royal Academy of Belles-Lettres, and a library which was provided with books by occasional
gifts from the public. He introduced some useful reforms in the system of primary instruction,
and inaugurated the first prize competitions for poetical compositions by native authors.

From the returns of the census of 1860 it appears that at that time only 17-12 per cent of
the male population of the island knew how to read, and only 12-12 per cent of the female population.
Four years later, at the end of 1864 there were, according to official data, 98,817 families
in Puerto Rico whose intellectual wants were supplied by 74 public schools for boys and 48
for girls, besides 16 and 9 private schools for boys and girls respectively.

In 1854 General Norzagery, then governor, assisted by Andres Viña, the secretary of the Royal
Board of Commerce and Industry, had founded a school of Commerce, Agriculture, and Navigation.
After sixteen years of existence, this establishment was unfavorably reported upon by Governor
Sanz, who wished to suppress it on account of the liberal ideas and autonomist tendencies of
its two principal professors, José Julian Acosta (Abbad's commentator) and Ramon B. Castro.
In the preamble to a secret report sent by this governor to Madrid he says: "This supreme civil
government has always secured professors who, in addition to the required ability for their
position, possess the moral and political character and qualities to form citizens, lovers
of their country, i.e., lovers of Puerto Rico as a Spanish province, not of Puerto Rico as
an independent state annexed to North America."

Female education had all along received even less attention than the education of boys. Alexander
Infiesta, in an article on the subject published in the Revista in February, 1888, states,
that according to the latest census there were 399,674 females in the island, of whom 293,247
could neither read nor write, 158,528 of them being white women and girls. The number of schools
for boys was 408, with an attendance of 18,194, and that for girls 127, with 7,183 pupils.

From the memorial published by the Director of the Provincial Institute for Secondary Education,
regarding the courses of study in that establishment during the year 1888-'89, we learn that
the number of primary schools in the island had increased to 600, but, according to Mr. Coll
y Toste's Reseña, published in 1899, there were, among a total population of 894,302 souls,
only 497 primary schools in the island at the time of the American occupation. The total attendance
was 22,265 pupils, 15,108 boys and 7,157 girls.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 77: See Franco del Valle Atilés, Causas del atras Intellectual del campesino Puertoriqueño.
Revista Puertoriqueña, Año II, tomo II, p. 7.]

[Footnote 78: Letter to Dr. Rufo Fernandez from Fray Angel de la Concepcion Vazquez. See Acosta's
notes to Abbad's history, pp. 412, 413, foot note.]

CHAPTER XXXVI

LIBRARIES AND THE PRESS

Books for the people were considered by the Spanish colonial authorities to be of the nature
of inflammable or explosive substances, which it was not safe to introduce freely.

From their point of view, they were right. The Droits de l'homme of Jean Jacques Rousseau,
for example, translated into every European language, had added more volunteers of all nationalities
to the ranks of the Spanish-American patriots than was generally supposed--and so, books and
printing material were subjected to the payment of high import duties, and a series of annoying
formalities, among which the passing of the political and ecclesiastical censors was the most
formidable.

The result among the poorer classes of natives was blank illiteracy. A pall of profound ignorance
hung over the island, and although, with the revival of letters in the seventeenth century
the light of intellect dawned over western Europe, not a ray of it was permitted to reach the
Spanish colonies.

The ruling class, every individual of whom came from the Peninsula, kept what books each individual
possessed to themselves. To the people all learning, except such as it was considered safe
to impart, was forbidden fruit.

Under these conditions it is not strange that the idea of founding public libraries did not
germinate in the minds of the more intelligent among the Puerto Ricans till the middle of the
nineteenth century; whereas, the other colonies that had shaken off their allegiance to the
mother country, had long since entered upon the road of intellectual progress with resolute step.

Collegiate libraries, however, had existed in the capital of the island as early as the sixteenth
century. The first of which we have any tradition was founded by the Dominican friars in their
convent. It contained works on art, literature, and theology.

The next library was formed in the episcopal palace, or "casa parochial," by Bishop Don Bernardo
de Valbuena, poet and author of a pastoral novel entitled the Golden Age, and other works of
literary merit. This library, together with that of the Dominicans, and the respective episcopal
and conventual archives were burned by the Hollanders during the siege of San Juan in 1625.

The Franciscan friars also had a library in their convent (1660). The books disappeared at
the time of the community's dissolution in 1835.

Bishop Pedro Gutierres de Cos, who founded the San Juan Conciliar Seminary in 1832, established
a library in connection with it, the remains of which are still extant in the old seminary
building, but much neglected and worm-eaten.

A library of a semipublic character was founded by royal order dated June 19, 1831, shortly
after the installation of the Audiencia in San Juan. It was a large and valuable collection
of books on juridical subjects, which remained under the care of a salaried librarian till
1899, when it was amalgamated with the library of the College of Lawyers.

This last is a rich collection of works on jurisprudence, and the exclusive property of the
college, but accessible to professional men. The library is in the former Audiencia building,
now occupied by the insular courts.

The period from 1830 to 1850 appears to have been one of greatest intellectual activity in
Puerto Rico. Toward its close Juan de la Pezuela, the governor, founded the Royal Academy of
Belles-Lettres, an institution of literary and pedagogical character, with the functions of
a normal school. It was endowed with a modest library, but it only lived till the year 1860,
when, in consequence of disagreement between the founder and the professors, the school was
closed and the library passed into the possession of the Economic Society of Friends of the
Country.

This, and the library of the Royal Academy, which the society had also acquired, formed a small
but excellent nucleus, and with, the produce of the public subscription of 1884 it was enabled
to stock its library with many of the best standard works of the time in Spanish and French,
and open to the Puerto Ricans of all classes the doors of the first long-wished-for public library.

Since then it has contributed in no small degree to the enlightenment of the better part of
the laboring classes in the capital, till it was closed at the commencement of the war.

During the transition period the books were transferred from one locality to another, and in
the process the best works disappeared, until the island's first civil governor, Charles H.
Allen, at the suggestion of Commissioner of Education Martin G. Brumbaugh, rescued the remainder
and made it the nucleus of the first American free library.

The second Puerto Rican public library was opened by Don Ramon Santaella, October 15, 1880,
in the basement of the Town Hall. It began with 400 volumes, and possesses to-day 6,361 literary
and didactic books in different languages.

The Puerto Rican Atheneum Library was established in 1876. Its collection of books, consisting
principally of Spanish and French literature, is an important one, both in numbers and quality.
It has been enriched by accessions of books from the library of the extinct Society of Friends
of the Country. It is open to members of the Atheneum only, or to visitors introduced by them.

The Casino Español possesses a small but select library with a comfortable reading-room. Its
collection of books and periodicals is said to be the richest and most varied in the island.
It was founded in 1871.

The religious association known under the name of Conferences of St. Vincent de Paul had a
small circulating library of religious works duly approved by the censors. The congregation
was broken up in 1887 and the library disappeared.

The Provincial Institute of Secondary Education, which was located in the building now occupied
by the free library and legislature, possessed a small pedagogical library which shared the
same fate as that of the Society of Friends of the Country.

The Spanish Public Works Department possessed another valuable collection of books, mostly
on technical and scientific subjects. A number of books on other than technical subjects, probably
from the extinct libraries just referred to, have been added to the original collection, and
the whole, to the number of 1,544 volumes in excellent condition, exist under the care of the
chief of the Public Works Department.

Besides the above specified libraries of a public and collegiate character, there are some
private collections of books in the principal towns of the island. Chief among these is the
collection of Don Fernando Juncos, of San Juan, which contains 15,000 volumes of classic and
preceptive literature and social and economic science, 1,200 volumes of which bear the author's
autographs.

The desire for intellectual improvement began to manifest itself in the interior of the island
a few years after the establishment of the first public library in the capital. The municipality
of Ponce founded a library in 1894. It contains 809 bound volumes and 669 pamphlets in English,
German, French, and Spanish, many of them duplicates. The general condition of the books is
bad, and the location of the library altogether unsuitable. There was a municipal appropriation
of 350 pesos per annum for library purposes, but since 1898 it has not been available.

Mayaguez founded its public library in 1872. It possesses over 5,000 volumes, with a small
archeological and natural history museum attached to it.

Some of the smaller towns also felt the need of intellectual expansion, and tried to supply
it by the establishment of reading-rooms. Arecibo, Véga-Baja, Toa-Alta, Yauco, Cabo-Rojo, Aguadilla,
Humacáo, and others made efforts in this direction either through their municipalities or private
initiative. A few only succeeded, but they did not outlive the critical times that commenced
with the war, aggravated by the hurricane of August, 1898.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since the American occupation of the island, four public libraries have been established. Two
of them are exclusively Spanish, the Circulating Scholastic Library, inaugurated in San Juan
on February 22, 1901, by Don Pedro Carlos Timothe, and the Circulating Scholastic Library of
Yauco, established a month later under the auspices of S. Egózene of that town. The two others
are, one, largely English, the Pedagogical Library, established under the auspices of the Commissioner
of Education, and the San Juan Free Library, to which Mr. Andrew Carnegie has given $100,000,
and which is polyglot, and was formally opened to the public April 20, 1901. There is also
a growing number of libraries in the public schools. From the above data it appears that, owing
to the peculiar conditions that obtained in this island, the people of Puerto Rico were very
slow in joining the movement of intellectual expansion which began in Spanish America in the
eighteenth century. They did so at last, unaided and with their own limited resources, even
before the obstacles placed in their way by the Government were removed. If they have not achieved
more, it is because within the last few decades the island has been unfortunate in more than
one respect. Now that a new era has dawned, it may reasonably be expected that the increased
opportunities for intellectual development afforded them will be duly appreciated and taken
advantage of by the people, and if we may judge from the eagerness with which the youth of
the capital reads the books of the San Juan Free Library, it seems clear that the seed so recently
sown has fallen in fruitful soil.

       *       *       *       *       *

The history of the Press in Puerto Rico is short. The first printing machine was introduced
by the Government in 1807 for the purpose of publishing the Official Gazette. No serious attempt
at publication of any periodical for the people was made till the commencement of the second
constitutional period (1820-'23), when, for the first time in the island's history, public
affairs could be discussed without the risk of imprisonment or banishment. The right of association
was also recognized. The Society of Liberal Lovers of the Country and the Society of Lovers
of Science were formed about this time. The Investigator and the Constitutional Gazette were
published and gave food for nightly discussions on political and social questions in the coffee-house
on the Marina.

The period of freedom of spoken and written thought was short, but an impulse had been given
which could not be arrested. In 1865 there were eight periodicals published in the island.
On September 29th of that year a law regulating the publication of newspapers indirectly suppressed
half of them. It contained twenty articles, each more stringent than the other. To obtain a
license to publish or to continue publishing a paper, a deposit of 2,000 crowns had to be made
to cover the fines that were almost sure to be imposed. The publications were subject to the
strictest censorship. They could not appear till the proofs of each article had been signed
by the censor, and the whole process of printing and publishing was fenced in by such minute
and annoying regulations, the smallest infraction of which was punished by such heavy fines
that it was a marvel how any paper could be published under such conditions. These conditions
were relaxed a decade or two later, and a number of publications sprang into existence at once.
When the United States Government took possession of the island, there were 9 periodicals published
in San Juan, 5 in Ponce, 3 in Mayaguez, 1 in Humacáo, and a few others in different towns of
the interior.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE REGULAR AND SECULAR CLERGY

In Catholic countries the monastic orders constitute the regular clergy. The secular clergy
is not bound by monastic rules. Both classes exercise their functions independently, the former
under the authority of their respective superiors or generals, the latter under the bishops.

When, after the return of Columbus from his first voyage, the existence of a new world was
demonstrated and preparations for occupying it were made, the Pope, to assure the Christianization
of the inhabitants, gave to the monks of all orders who wished to go the privilege, pertaining
till then to the secular clergy exclusively, of administering parishes and collecting tithes
without subjection to the authority of the bishops.

The Dominicans and the Franciscans availed themselves of this privilege at once. There was
rivalry for power and influence between these two orders from the time of their first installation,
and they carried their quarrels with them to America, where their differences of opinion regarding
the enslaving and treatment of the Indians embittered them still more. The Dominicans secured
a footing in Santo Domingo and in Puerto Rico almost to the exclusion of their rivals, notwithstanding
the king's recommendation to Ceron in 1511 to build a monastery for Franciscans, whose doctrines
he considered "salutary."

Puerto Rico was scantily provided with priests till the year 1518, when the treasurer, Haro,
wrote to Cardinal Cisneros: "There are no priests in the granges as has been commanded; only
one in Capárra, and one in San German. The island is badly served. Send us a goodly number
of priests or permission to pay them out of the produce of the tithes."

The "goodly number of priests" was duly provided. Immediately after the transfer of the capital
to its present site in 1521, the Dominicans began the construction of a convent, which was
nearly completed in 1529, when there were 25 friars in it. They had acquired great influence
over Bishop Manso, and obtained many privileges and immunities from him. Bishop Bastidas, Manso's
successor, was less favorably disposed toward them, and demanded payment of tithes of the produce
of their agricultural establishments. He reported to the king in 1548: "There is a Dominican
monastery here large enough for a city of 2,000 inhabitants,[79] and there are many friars
in it. They possess farms, cattle, negroes, Indians, and are building horse-power sugar-mills;
meanwhile, I know that they are asking your Majesty for alms to finish their church ... It
were better to oblige them to sell their estates and live in poverty as prescribed by the rules
of their order."

The Franciscans came to Puerto Rico in 1534, but founded no convent till 1585, when one of
their order, Nicolas Ramos, was appointed to the see of San Juan. Then they established themselves
in "la Aguáda," and named the settlement San Francisco de Asis. Two years later it was destroyed
by the Caribs, and five of the brothers martyrized. No attempt at reconstruction of the convent
was made. The order abandoned the island and did not return till 1642, when they obtained the
Pope's license to establish themselves in the capital. Like the Dominicans, they soon acquired
considerable wealth.

The privilege of administering parishes and collecting tithes, which was the principal source
of monastic revenues, was canceled by royal schedule June 13, 1757. The monks continued in
the full enjoyment of their property till 1835, when all the property of the regular clergy
throughout the Peninsula and the colonies was expropriated by the Government. In this island
the convents were appropriated only after long and tedious judicial proceedings, in which the
Government demonstrated that the transfer was necessary for the public good. Then the convents
were used--that of the Dominicans as Audiencia hall, that of the Franciscans as artillery barracks.
The intendancy took charge of the administration of the estate of the two communities, the
mortmain was canceled, and the transfer duly legalized. A promised indemnity to the two brotherhoods
was never paid, but in 1897 a sum of 5,000 pesos annually was added to the insular budget,
to be paid to the clergy as compensation for the expropriated estate of the Dominicans in San
German. Succeeding political events prevented the payment of this also. The last representatives
in this island of the two dispossessed orders died in San Juan about the year 1865.

Bishop Monserrate made an effort to reestablish the order of Franciscans in 1875-'76. Only
three brothers came to the island and they, not liking the aspect of affairs, went to South
America.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first head of the secular clergy in Puerto Rico was nominated in 1511. The Catholic princes
besought Pope Julius II to make it a bishopric, and recommended as its first prelate Alonzo
Manso, canon of Salamanca, doctor in theology, a man held in high esteem at court. His Holiness
granted the request, and designated the whole of the island as the diocese, with the principal
settlement in it as the see.

The subsequent conquests on the mainland kept adding vast territories to this diocese till,
toward the end of the eighteenth century, it included the whole region extending from the upper
Orinoco to the Amazon, and from Guiana to the plains of Bogotá. Manso's successors repeatedly
represented to the king the absolute impossibility of attending to the spiritual wants of "the
lambs that were continually added to the flock." They requested that the see might be transferred
to the mainland or that the diocese might be divided in two or more. This was done in 1791,
when the diocese of Guiana was created, and Puerto Rico with the island of Vieyques remained
as the original one.

The bishop came to San Juan in 1513, and at once began to dispose all that was necessary to
give splendor and good government to the first episcopal seat in America. Unfortunately, he
arrived at a time when dissension, strife, and immorality were rampant; and when it became
known that he was authorized to collect his tithes in specie, the opposition of the quarrelsome
and insubordinate inhabitants became so violent that the prelate could not exercise his functions,
and was forced to return to the Peninsula in 1515. He came back in 1519, invested with the
powers of a Provincial Inquisitor, which he exercised till 1539, when he died and was buried
in the cathedral, where a monument with an alabaster effigy marked his tomb till 1625, when
it was destroyed by the Hollanders.

Rodrigo Bastidas, a native of Santo Domingo, was Manso's successor. He was appointed Bishop
of Coro in Venezuela in 1532, but solicited and obtained the see of Puerto Rico in 1542. He
was a man of great capacity, virtuous and benevolent. He advised the suppression of the Inquisition,
asked the Government for facilities to educate the youth and advance the agricultural interests
of his diocese, and commenced the construction of the cathedral. He died in Santo Domingo in
1561, very old and very rich.

Friar Diego de Salamanca, of the order of Augustines, succeeded Bastidas. He continued the
construction of the cathedral, but soon returned to the metropolis, leaving the diocese to
the care of the Vicar-General, Santa Olaya, till 1585, when the Franciscan friar Nicolas Bamos
was appointed to the see. He was the last Bishop of Puerto Rico who united the functions of
inquisitor with those of the episcopate, and a zealous burner of heretics. After him the see
remained vacant for fourteen years; since then, to the end of the eighteenth century there
were 39 consecrated prelates, 9 of whom renounced, or for some other reason did not take possession.
The most distinguished among the remaining 30 were: Bernardo Balbuena, poet and author, 1623-'27;
Friar Manuel Gimenez Perez, pious, active, and philanthropist, 1770-'84; and Juan Alejo Arismendi,
who, according to the Latin inscription on his tomb, was an amiable, religious, upright, zealous,
compassionate, learned, decorous, active, leading, benevolent, paternal man. Of the rest little
more is known than their names and the dates of their assumption of office and demise.

       *       *       *       *       *

The year 1842 was, for the secular clergy, one of anxiety for the safety of their long and
assiduously accumulated wealth. The members to the number of 17 individuals, including the
bishop, drew annual stipends from the insular treasury to the amount of 36,888 pesos, besides
which they possessed and still possess a capital of over one and a half millions of pesos,
represented by: 1. Vacant chaplaincies. 2. Investments under the head Ecclesiastical Chapter.
3. Idem for account of the Carmelite Sisterhood. 4. Legacies to saints for the purpose of celebrating
masses and processions in all the parishes of the island. 5. Pious donations. 6. Fraternities
and religious associations for the worship of some special saint. 7. Revenues from an institution
known by the name of Third Orders. 8. Capital invested by the founders of the Hospital of the
Conception, the income of which is mostly consumed by the nuns of that order. And 9. The ecclesiastical
revenues of different kinds in San German.

All this was put in jeopardy by the following decree:

"Doña Isabel II, by the grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of
Spain, and during her minority Baldomero Espartero, Duke of 'la Victoria' and Morella, Regent
of the kingdom, to all who these presents may see and understand, makes known that the Cortes
have decreed, and we have sanctioned, as follows:

"ARTICLE I. All properties of the secular clergy of whatever class; rights or shares of whatever
origin or denomination they may be, or for whatever application or purpose they may have been
given, bought, or acquired, are national properties.

"ART. II. The properties, rights, and shares corresponding in any manner to ecclesiastical
unions or fraternities, are also national properties.

"ART. III. All estates, rights, and shares of the cathedral, collegiate and parochial clergy
and ecclesiastical unions and fraternities referred to in the preceding articles, are hereby
declared for sale."

       *       *       *       *       *
The 15 articles that follow specify the properties
in detail, the manner of sale, the disposition of the
products, administration of rents, etc.

The law was not carried into effect. Espartero, very popular at first, by adopting the principles
of the progressist party, forfeited the support of the conservatives--that is, of the clerical
party, and the man is not born yet who can successfully introduce into Spain a radical reform
of the nature of the one he sanctioned with his signature September 2, 1841. From that moment
his overthrow was certain. Narvaez headed the revolution against him, his own officers and
men abandoned him, and on July 30, 1843, he wrote his farewell manifesto to the nation on board
a British ship of war.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 79: San Juan had only about 100 "vecinos"--that is, white people.]

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE INQUISITION

1520-1813

Bishop Manso, on his arrival in 1513, found Puerto Rico in a state bordering on anarchy, and
after vain attempts to check the prevalent immorality and establish the authority of the Church,
he returned to Spain in 1519. The account he gave Cardinal Cisneros of the island's condition
suggested to the Grand Inquisitor the obvious remedy of clothing the bishop with the powers
of Provincial Inquisitor, which he did.

Diego Torres Vargas, the canon of the San Juan Cathedral, says in his memoirs: "Manso was made
inquisitor, and he, being the first, may be said to have been the Inquisitor-General of the
Indies; ... the delinquents were brought from all parts to be burned and punished here ...
The Inquisition building exists till this day (1647), and until the coming of the Hollanders
in 1625 many sambenitos could be seen in the cathedral hung up behind the choir."

These "sambenitos" were sacks of coarse yellow cloth with a large red cross on them, and figures
of devils and instruments of torture among the flames of hell. The delinquents, dressed in
one of these sacks, bareheaded and barefooted, were made to do penance, or, if condemned to
be burned, marched to the place of execution. It is said that in San Juan they were not tied
to a stake but enclosed in a hollow plaster cast, against which the faggots were piled,[80]
so that they were roasted rather than burned to death. The place for burning the sinners was
outside the gate of the fort San Cristobal. Mr. M.F. Juncos believes that the prisons were
in the lower part of the Dominican Convent, later the territorial audience and now the supreme
court, but Mr. Salvador Brau thinks that they occupied a plot of ground in the angle formed
by Cristo Street and the "Caleta" of San Juan.

Of Nicolas Ramos, the last Bishop of Puerto Rico, who united the functions of inquisitor with
the duties of the episcopate, Canon Vargas says: " ... He was very severe, burning and punishing,
as was his duty, some of the people whose cases came before him ..."

It seems that the records of the Inquisition in this island were destroyed and the traditions
of its doings suppressed, because nothing is said regarding them by the native commentators
on the island's history. Only the names of a few of the leading men who came in contact with
the Tribunal have come down to us. Licentiate Sancho Velasquez, who was accused of speaking
against the faith and eating meat in Lent, appears to have been Manso's first victim, since
he died in a dungeon. A clergyman named Juan Carecras was sent to Spain at the disposition
of the general, for the crime of practising surgery. In the same year (1536) we find the treasurer,
Blas de Villasante, in an Inquisition dungeon, because, though married in Spain, he cohabited
with a native woman--an offense too common at that time not to leave room for suspicion that
the treasurer must have made himself obnoxious to the Holy Office in some other way. In 1537,
a judge auditor was sent from the Española, but the parties whose accounts were to be audited
contrived to have him arrested by the officers of the Inquisition on the day of his arrival.
Doctor Juan Blazquez, having attempted to correct some abuses committed by the Admiral's employees
in connivance with the Inquisition agents, suffered forty days' imprisonment, and was condemned
to hear a mass standing erect all the time, besides paying a fine of 50 pesos.

These are the only cases on record. Only the walls of the Inquisition building, could they
speak, could reveal what passed within them from the time of Manso's arrival in 1520 to the
end of the sixteenth century, when the West Indian Superior Tribunal was transferred to Cartagena,
and a special subordinate judge only was left in San Juan. Bishop Rodrigo de Bastidas, who
visited San Juan on a Government commission in 1533, perceiving the abuses that were committed
in the inquisitor's name, proposed the abolition of the Holy Office; but the odious institution
continued to exist till 1813, when the extraordinary Cortes of Cadiz removed, for a time, this
blot on Spanish history. The decree is dated February 22d, and accompanied by a manifesto which
is an instructive historical document in itself. It shows that the Cortes dared not attempt
the suppression of the dreaded Tribunal without first convincing the people of the disconnection
of the measure with the religious question, and justifying it as one necessary for the public weal.

"You can not doubt," they say, "that we endeavor to maintain in this kingdom the Catholic,
Apostolic, Roman religion, which you have the happiness to profess; ... the deputies elected
by you know, as do the legislators of all times and all nations, that a social edifice not
founded on religion, is constructed in vain; ... the true religion which we profess is the
greatest blessing which God has bestowed on the Spanish people; we do not recognize as Spaniards
those who do not profess it ... It is the surest support of all private and social virtues,
of fidelity to the laws and to the monarch, of the love of country and of just liberty, which
are graven in every Spanish heart, which have impelled you to battle with the hosts of the
usurper, vanquishing and annihilating them, while braving hunger and nakedness, torture, and
death."

The Inquisition is next referred to. It is stated that in their constant endeavor to hasten
the termination of the evils that afflict the Spanish nation, the people's representatives
have first given their attention to the Inquisition; that, with the object of discovering the
exact civil and ecclesiastical status of the Holy Office, they have examined all the papal
bulls and other documents that could throw light on the subject, and have discovered that only
the Inquisitor-General had ecclesiastical powers; that the Provincial Inquisitors were merely
his delegates acting under his instructions; that no supreme inquisitorial council had ever
been instituted by papal brief, and that the general, being with the enemy (the French troops),
no Inquisition really existed. From these investigations the Cortes had acquired a knowledge
of the mode of procedure of the tribunals, of their history, and of the opinion of them entertained
by the Cortes of the kingdom in early days. " ... We will now speak frankly to you," continues
the document, "for it is time that you should know the naked truth, and that the veil be lifted
with which false politicians have covered their designs.

"Examining the instructions by which the provincial tribunals were governed, it becomes clear
at first sight that the soul of the institution was inviolable secrecy. This covered all the
proceedings of the inquisitors, and made them the arbiters of the life and honor of all Spaniards,
without responsibility to anybody on earth. They were men, and as such subject to the same
errors and passions as the rest of mankind, and it is inconceivable that the nation did not
exact responsibility since, in virtue of the temporal power that had been delegated to them,
they condemned to seclusion, imprisonment, torture, and death. Thus the inquisitors exercised
a power which the Constitution denies to every authority in the land save the sacred person
of the king.

