They had not met since the evening on which Gertrude had declared to him that she never could
love him; and Norman, as he got out of the cab with Mrs. Woodward, at No. 5, Paradise Row,
Millbank, felt his heart beat within him almost as strongly as he had done when he was about
to propose to her. He followed Mrs. Woodward into the dingy little house, and immediately found
himself in Gertrude's presence.

I should exaggerate the fact were I to say that he would not have known her; but had he met
her elsewhere, met her where he did not expect to meet her, he would have looked at her more
than once before he felt assured that he was looking at Gertrude Woodward. It was not that
she had grown pale, or worn, or haggard; though, indeed, her face had on it that weighty look
of endurance which care will always give; it was not that she had lost her beauty, and become
unattractive in his eyes; but that the whole nature of her mien and form, the very trick of
her gait was changed. Her eye was as bright as ever, but it was steady, composed, and resolved;
her lips were set and compressed, and there was no playfulness round her mouth. Her hair was
still smooth and bright, but it was more brushed off from her temples than it had been of yore,
and was partly covered by a bit of black lace, which we presume we must call a cap; here and
there, too, through it, Norman's quick eye detected a few grey hairs. She was stouter too than
she had been, or else she seemed to be so from the changes in her dress. Her step fell heavier
on the floor than it used to do, and her voice was quicker and more decisive in its tones.
When she spoke to her mother, she did so as one sister might do to another; and, indeed, Mrs.
Woodward seemed to exercise over her very little of the authority of a parent. The truth was
that Gertrude had altogether ceased to be a girl, had altogether become a woman. Linda, with
whom Norman at once compared her, though but one year younger, was still a child in comparison
with her elder sister. Happy, happy Linda!

Gertrude had certainly proved herself to be an excellent wife; but perhaps she might have made
herself more pleasing to others if she had not so entirely thrown off from herself all traces
of juvenility. Could she, in this respect, have taken a lesson from her mother, she would have
been a wiser woman. We have said that she consorted with Mrs. Woodward as though they had been
sisters; but one might have said that Gertrude took on herself the manners of the elder sister.
It is true that she had hard duties to perform, a stern world to overcome, an uphill fight
before her with poverty, distress, and almost, nay, absolutely, with degradation. It was well
for her and Alaric that she could face it all with the true courage of an honest woman. But
yet those who had known her in her radiant early beauty could not but regret that the young
freshness of early years should all have been laid aside so soon.

'Linda, at any rate, far exceeds her in beauty,' was Norman's first thought, as he stood for
a moment to look at her--'and then Linda too is so much more feminine.' 'Twas thus that Harry
Norman consoled himself in the first moment of his first interview with Alaric's wife. And
he was right in his thoughts. The world would now have called Linda the more lovely of the
two, and certainly the more feminine in the ladylike sense of the word. If, however, devotion
be feminine, and truth to one selected life's companion, if motherly care be so, and an indomitable
sense of the duties due to one's own household, then Gertrude was not deficient in feminine
character.

'You find me greatly altered, Harry, do you not?' said she, taking his hand frankly, and perceiving
immediately the effect which she had made upon him. 'I am a steady old matron, am I not?--with
a bairn on each side of me,' and she pointed to her baby in the cradle, and to her other boy
sitting on his grandmother's knee.

Harry said he did find her altered. It was her dress, he said, and the cap on her head.

'Yes, Harry; and some care and trouble too. To you, you know, to a friend such as you are,
I must own that care and trouble do tell upon one. Not, thank God, that I have more than I
can bear; not that I have not blessings for which I cannot but be too thankful.'

'And so these are your boys, Gertrude?'

'Yes,' said she, cheerfully; 'these are the little men, that in the good times coming will
be managing vast kingdoms, and giving orders to this worn-out old island of yours. Alley, my
boy, sing your new song about the 'good and happy land.' But Alley, who had got hold of his
grandmother's watch, and was staring with all his eyes at the stranger, did not seem much inclined
to be musical at the present moment.

'And this is Charley's godson,' continued Gertrude, taking up the baby. 'Dear Charley! he has
been such a comfort to me.'

'I have heard all about you daily from him,' said Harry.

'I know you have--and he is daily talking of you, Harry. And so he should do; so we all should
do. What a glorious change this is for him! is it not, Harry?'

Charley by this time had torn himself away from Mr. Snape and the navvies, and transferred
the whole of his official zeal and energies to the Weights and Measures. The manner and reason
of this must, however, be explained in a subsequent chapter.

'Yes,' said Harry, 'he has certainly got into a better office.'

'And he will do well there?'

'I am sure he will. It was impossible he should do well at that other place. No man could do
so. He is quite an altered man now. The only fault I find with him is that he is so full of
his heroes and heroines.'

'So he is, Harry; he is always asking me what he is to do with some forlorn lady or gentleman,
'Oh, smother her!' I said the other day. 'Well,' said he, with a melancholy gravity, 'I'll
try it; but I fear it won't answer.' Poor Charley! what a friend you have been to him, Harry!'

'A friend!' said Mrs. Woodward, who was still true to her adoration of Norman. 'Indeed he has
been a friend--a friend to us all. Who is there like him?'

Gertrude could have found it in her heart to go back to the subject of old days, and tell her
mother that there was somebody much better even than Harry Norman. But the present was hardly
a time for such an assertion of her own peculiar opinion.

'Yes, Harry,' she said, 'we have all much, too much, to thank you for. I have to thank you
on his account.'

'Oh no,' said he, ungraciously; 'there is nothing to thank me for,--not on his account. Your
mother and Captain Cuttwater----' and then he stopped himself. What he meant was that he had
sacrificed his little fortune--for at the time his elder brother had still been living--not
to rescue, or in attempting to rescue, his old friend from misfortune--not, at least, because
that man had been his friend; but because he was the husband of Gertrude Woodward, and of Mrs.
Woodward's daughter. Could he have laid bare his heart, he would have declared that Alaric
Tudor owed him nothing; that he had never forgiven, never could forgive, the wrongs he had
received from him; but that he had forgiven Alaric's wife; and that having done so in the tenderness
of his heart, he had been ready to give up all that he possessed for her protection. He would
have spared Gertrude what pain he could; but he would not lie, and speak of Alaric Tudor with
affection.

'But there is, Harry; there is,' said Gertrude; 'much--too much --greatly too much. It is that
now weighs me down more than anything. Oh! Harry, how are we to pay to you all this money?'

'It is with Mrs. Woodward,' said he coldly, 'and Captain Cuttwater, not with me, that you should
speak of that. Mr. Tudor owes me nothing.'

'Oh, Harry, Harry,' said she, 'do not call him Mr. Tudor--pray, pray; now that we are going--now
that we shall never wound your sight again! do not call him Mr. Tudor.

He has done wrong; I do not deny it; but which of us is there that has not?'

'It was not on that account,' said he; 'I could forgive all that.'

Gertrude understood him, and her cheeks and brow became tinged with red. It was not from shame,
nor yet wholly from a sense of anger, but mingled feelings filled her heart; feelings which
she could in nowise explain. 'If you have forgiven him that'--she would have said, had she
thought it right to speak out her mind-- 'if you have forgiven him that, then there is nothing
left for further forgiveness.'

Gertrude had twice a better knowledge of the world than he had, twice a quicker perception
of how things were going, and should be made to go. She saw that it was useless to refer further
to her husband. Norman had come there at her request to say adieu to her; that she and he,
who had been friends since she was a child, might see each other before they were separated
for ever by half a world, and that they might part in love and charity. She would be his sister-in-law,
he would be son to her mother, husband to her Linda; he had been, though he now denied it,
her husband's staunchest friend in his extremity; and it would have added greatly to the bitterness
of her departure had she been forced to go without speaking to him one kindly word. The opportunity
was given to her, and she would not utterly mar its sweetness by insisting on his injustice
to her husband.

They all remained silent for a while, during which Gertrude fondled her baby, and Norman produced
before the elder boy some present that he had brought for him.

'Now, Alley,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'you're a made man; won't that do beautifully to play with
on board the big ship?'

'And so, Harry, you have given up official life altogether,' said Gertrude.

'Yes,' said he--'the last day of the last year saw my finale at the Weights and Measures. I
did not live long--officially--to enjoy my promotion. I almost wish myself back again.'

'You'll go in on melting days, like the retired tallow-chandler,' said Gertrude; 'but, joking
apart, I wish you joy on your freedom from thraldom; a government office in England is thraldom.
If a man were to give his work only, it would be well. All men who have to live by labour must
do that; but a man has to give himself as well as his work; to sacrifice his individuality;
to become body and soul a part of a lumbering old machine.'

This hardly came well from Gertrude, seeing that Alaric at any rate had never been required
to sacrifice any of his individuality. But she was determined to hate all the antecedents of
his life, as though those antecedents, and not the laxity of his own principles, had brought
about his ruin. She was prepared to live entirely for the future, and to look back on her London
life as bad, tasteless, and demoralizing. England to her was no longer a glorious country;
for England's laws had made a felon of her husband. She would go to a new land, new hopes,
new ideas, new freedom, new work, new life, and new ambition. 'Excelsior!' there was no longer
an excelsior left for talent and perseverance in this effete country. She and hers would soon
find room for their energies in a younger land; and as she went she could not but pity those
whom she left behind. Her reasoning was hardly logical, but, perhaps, it was not unfortunate.

'For myself,' said Norman, not quite following all this--'I always liked the Civil Service,
and now I leave it with a sort of regret. I am quite glad that Charley has my old desk; it
will keep up a sort of tie between me and the place.'

'What does Linda say about it, mamma?'

'Linda and I are both of Harry's way of thinking,' said Mrs. Woodward, 'because Normansgrove
is such a distance.'

'Distance!' repeated Gertrude, with something of sorrow, but more of scorn in her tone. 'Distance,
mamma! why you can get to her between breakfast and dinner. Think where Melbourne is, mamma!'

'It has nearly broken my heart to think of it,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'And you will still have Linda, mamma, and our darling Katie, and Harry, and dear Charley.
If the idea of distance should frighten anyone it is me. But nothing shall frighten me while
I have my husband and children. Harry, you must not let mamma be too often alone when some
other knight shall have come and taken away Katie.'

'We will take her to Normansgrove for good and all, if she will let us,' said Harry.

And now the time came for them to part. Harry was to say good-bye to her, and then to see her
no more. Early on the following morning Gertrude was to go to Hampton and see Katie for the
last time; to see Katie for the last time, and the Cottage, and the shining river, and all
the well-known objects among which she had passed her life. To Mrs. Woodward, to Linda, and
Katie, all this was subject of inexpressible melancholy; but with Gertrude every feeling of
romance seemed to have been absorbed by the realities of life. She would, of course, go to
Katie and give her a farewell embrace, since Katie was still too weak to come to her; she would
say farewell to Uncle Bat, to whom she and Alaric owed so much; she would doubtless shed a
tear or two, and feel some emotion at parting, even from the inanimate associations of her
youth; but all this would now impress no lasting sorrow on her.

She was eager to be off, eager for her new career, eager that he should stand on a soil where
he could once more face his fellow- creatures without shame. She panted to put thousands of
leagues of ocean between him and his disgrace.

On the following morning Gertrude was to go to Hampton for two hours, and then to return to
Millbank, with her mother and sister, for whose accommodation a bed had been hired in the neighbourhood.
On that evening Alaric would be released from his prison; and then before daybreak on the following
day they were to take their way to the far-off docks, and place themselves on board the vessel
which was to carry them to their distant home.

'God bless you, Gertrude,' said Norman, whose eyes were not dry.

'God Almighty bless you, Harry, you and Linda--and make you happy. If Linda does not write
constantly very constantly, you must do it for her. We have delayed the happiness of your marriage,
Harry--you must forgive us that, as well as all our other trespasses. I fear Linda will never
forgive that.'

'You won't find her unmerciful on that score,' said he. 'Dear Gertrude, good-bye.'

She put up her face to him, and he kissed her, for the first time in his life. 'He bade me
give you his love,' said she, in her last whisper; 'I must, you know, do his bidding.'

Norman's heart palpitated so that he could hardly compose his voice for his last answer; but
even then he would not be untrue to his inexorable obstinacy; he could not send his love to
a man he did not love. 'Tell him,' said he, 'that he has my sincerest wishes for success wherever
he may be; and Gertrude, I need hardly say----' but he could get no further.

And so they parted.

CHAPTER XLIV

THE CRIMINAL POPULATION IS DISPOSED OF

Before we put Alaric on board the ship which is to take him away from the land in which he
might have run so exalted a career, we must say one word as to the fate and fortunes of his
old friend Undy Scott. This gentleman has not been represented in our pages as an amiable or
high-minded person. He has indeed been the bad spirit of the tale, the Siva of our mythology,
the devil that has led our hero into temptation, the incarnation of evil, which it is always
necessary that the novelist should have personified in one of his characters to enable him
to bring about his misfortunes, his tragedies, and various requisite catastrophes. Scott had
his Varney and such-like; Dickens his Bill Sykes and such-like; all of whom are properly disposed
of before the end of those volumes in which are described their respective careers.

I have ventured to introduce to my readers, as my devil, Mr. Undy Scott, M.P. for the Tillietudlem
district burghs; and I also feel myself bound to dispose of him, though of him I regret I cannot
make so decent an end as was done with Sir Richard Varney and Bill Sykes.

He deserves, however, as severe a fate as either of those heroes. With the former we will not
attempt to compare him, as the vices and devilry of the days of Queen Elizabeth are in no way
similar to those in which we indulge; but with Bill Sykes we may contrast him, as they flourished
in the same era, and had their points of similitude, as well as their points of difference.

They were both apparently born to prey on their own species; they both resolutely adhered to
a fixed rule that they would in nowise earn their bread, and to a rule equally fixed that,
though they would earn no bread, they would consume much. They were both of them blessed with
a total absence of sensibility and an utter disregard to the pain of others, and had no other
use for a heart than that of a machine for maintaining the circulation of the blood. It is
but little to say that neither of them ever acted on principle, on a knowledge, that is, of
right and wrong, and a selection of the right; in their studies of the science of evil they
had progressed much further than this, and had taught themselves to believe that that which
other men called virtue was, on its own account, to be regarded as mawkish, insipid, and useless
for such purposes as the acquisition of money or pleasure; whereas vice was, on its own account,
to be preferred, as offering the only road to those things which they were desirous of possessing.

So far there was a great resemblance between Bill Sykes and Mr. Scott; but then came the points
of difference, which must give to the latter a great pre-eminence in the eyes of that master
whom they had both so worthily served. Bill could not boast the merit of selecting the course
which he had run; he had served the Devil, having had, as it were, no choice in the matter;
he was born and bred and educated an evil-doer, and could hardly have deserted from the colours
of his great Captain, without some spiritual interposition to enable him to do so. To Undy
a warmer reward must surely be due: he had been placed fairly on the world's surface, with
power to choose between good and bad, and had deliberately taken the latter; to him had, at
any rate, been explained the theory of meum and tuum, and he had resolved that he liked tuum
better than meum; he had learnt that there is a God ruling over us, and a Devil hankering after
us, and had made up his mind that he would belong to the latter. Bread and water would have
come to him naturally without any villany on his part, aye, and meat and milk, and wine and
oil, the fat things of the world; but he elected to be a villain; he liked to do the Devil's
bidding.--Surely he was the better servant; surely he shall have the richer reward.

And yet poor Bill Sykes, for whom here I would willingly say a word or two, could I, by so
saying, mitigate the wrath against him, is always held as the more detestable scoundrel. Lady,
you now know them both. Is it not the fact, that, knowing him as you do, you could spend a
pleasant hour enough with Mr. Scott, sitting next to him at dinner; whereas your blood would
creep within you, your hair would stand on end, your voice would stick in your throat, if you
were suddenly told that Bill Sykes was in your presence?

Poor Bill! I have a sort of love for him, as he walks about wretched with that dog of his,
though I know that it is necessary to hang him. Yes, Bill; I, your friend, cannot gainsay that,
must acknowledge that. Hard as the case may be, you must be hung; hung out of the way of further
mischief; my spoons, my wife's throat, my children's brains, demand that. You, Bill, and polecats,
and such-like, must be squelched when we can come across you, seeing that you make yourself
so universally disagreeable. It is your ordained nature to be disagreeable; you plead silently.
I know it; I admit the hardship of your case; but still, my Bill, self- preservation is the
first law of nature. You must be hung. But, while hanging you, I admit that you are more sinned
against than sinning. There is another, Bill, another, who will surely take account of this
in some way, though it is not for me to tell you how.

Yes, I hang Bill Sykes with soft regret; but with what a savage joy, with what exultation of
heart, with what alacrity of eager soul, with what aptitude of mind to the deed, would I hang
my friend, Undy Scott, the member of Parliament for the Tillietudlem burghs, if I could but
get at his throat for such a purpose! Hang him! aye, as high as Haman! In this there would
be no regret, no vacillation of purpose, no doubt as to the propriety of the sacrifice, no
feeling that I was so treating him, not for his own desert, but for my advantage.

We hang men, I believe, with this object only, that we should deter others from crime; but
in hanging Bill we shall hardly deter his brother. Bill Sykes must look to crime for his bread,
seeing that he has been so educated, seeing that we have not yet taught him another trade.

But if I could hang Undy Scott, I think I should deter some others.

Fate, however, and the laws are averse. To gibbet him, in one sense, would have been my privilege,
had I drunk deeper from that Castalian rill whose dark waters are tinged with the gall of poetic
indignation; but as in other sense I may not hang him, I will tell how he was driven from his
club, and how he ceased to number himself among the legislators of his country.

Undy Scott, among his other good qualities, possessed an enormous quantity of that which schoolboys
in these days call 'cheek.' He was not easily browbeaten, and was generally prepared to browbeat
others. Mr. Chaffanbrass certainly did get the better of him; but then Mr. Chaffanbrass was
on his own dunghill. Could Undy Scott have had Mr. Chaffanbrass down at the clubs, there would
have been, perhaps, another tale to tell.

Give me the cock that can crow in any yard; such cocks, however, we know are scarce. Undy Scott,
as he left the Old Bailey, was aware that he had cut a sorry figure, and felt that he must
immediately do something to put himself right again, at any rate before his portion of the
world. He must perform some exploit uncommonly cheeky in order to cover his late discomfiture.
To get the better of Mr. Chaffanbrass at the Old Bailey had been beyond him; but he might yet
do something at the clubs to set aside the unanimous verdict which had been given against him
in the city. Nay, he must do something, unless he was prepared to go to the wall utterly, and
at once.

Going to the wall with Undy would mean absolute ruin; he lived but on the cheekiness of his
gait and habits; he had become member of Parliament, Government official, railway director,
and club aristocrat, merely by dint of cheek. He had now received a great blow; he had stood
before a crowd, and been annihilated by the better cheek of Mr. Chaffanbrass, and, therefore,
it behoved him at once to do something. When the perfume of the rose grows stale, the flower
is at once thrown aside, and carried off as foul refuse. It behoved Undy to see that his perfume
was maintained in its purity, or he, too, would be carried off.

The club to which Undy more especially belonged was called the Downing; and of this Alaric
was also a member, having been introduced into it by his friend. Here had Alaric spent by far
too many of the hours of his married life, and had become well known and popular. At the time
of his conviction, the summer was far advanced; it was then August; but Parliament was still
sitting, and there were sufficient club men remaining in London to create a daily gathering
at the Downing.

On the day following that on which the verdict was found, Undy convened a special committee
of the club, in order that he might submit to it a proposition which he thought it indispensable
should come from him; so, at least, he declared. The committee did assemble, and when Undy
met it, he saw among the faces before him not a few with whom he would willingly have dispensed.
However, he had come there to exercise his cheek; no one there should cow him; the wig of Mr.
Chaffanbrass was, at any rate, absent.

And so he submitted his proposition. I need not trouble my readers with the neat little speech
in which it was made. Undy was true to himself, and the speech was neat. The proposition was
this: that as he had unfortunately been the means of introducing Mr. Alaric Tudor to the club,
he considered it to be his duty to suggest that the name of that gentleman should be struck
off the books. He then expressed his unmitigated disgust at the crime of which Tudor had been
found guilty, uttered some nice little platitudes in the cause of virtue, and expressed a hope
'that he might so far refer to a personal matter as to say that his father's family would take
care that the lady, whose fortune had been the subject of the trial, should not lose one penny
through the dishonesty of her trustee.'

Oh, Undy, as high as Haman, if I could! as high as Haman! and if not in Lombard Street, then
on that open ground where Waterloo Place bisects Pall Mall, so that all the clubs might see thee!

'He would advert,' he said, 'to one other matter, though, perhaps, his doing so was unnecessary.
It was probably known to them all that he had been a witness at the late trial; an iniquitous
attempt had been made by the prisoner's counsel to connect his name with the prisoner's guilt.
They all too well knew the latitude allowed to lawyers in the criminal courts, to pay much
attention to this. Had he' (Undy Scott) 'in any way infringed the laws of his country, he was
there to answer for it. But he would go further than this, and declare that if any member of
that club doubted his probity in the matter, he was perfectly willing to submit to such member
documents which would,' &c., &c.

He finished his speech, and an awful silence reigned around him. No enthusiastic ardour welcomed
the well-loved Undy back to his club, and comforted him after the rough usage of the unpolished
Chaffanbrass. No ten or twenty combined voices expressed, by their clamorous negation of the
last-proposed process, that their Undy was above reproach. The eyes around looked into him
with no friendly alacrity. Undy, Undy, more cheek still, still more cheek, or you are surely lost.

'If,' said he, in a well-assumed indignant tone of injured innocence, 'there be any in the
club who do suspect me of anything unbecoming a gentleman in this affair, I am willing to retire
from it till the matter shall have been investigated; but in such case I demand that the investigation
be immediate.'

Oh, Undy, Undy, the supply of cheek is not bad; it is all but unlimited; but yet it suffices
thee not. 'Can there be positions in this modern West End world of mine,' thought Undy to himself,
'in which cheek, unbounded cheek, will not suffice?' Oh, Undy, they are rare; but still there
are such, and this, unfortunately for thee, seemeth to be one of them.

