The Khalif Hisham ben Abdulmelik ben Merwan was hunting one day, when he sighted an antelope
and pursued it with his dogs. As he was following the chase, he saw an Arab youth pasturing
sheep and said to him, 'Ho, boy, up and stop yonder antelope, for it escapeth me!' The youth
raised his head and replied, 'O ignorant of the worth of the worthy,[FN#125] thou lookest on
me with disdain and speakest to me with contempt; thy speech is that of a tyrant and thy conduct
that of an ass.' 'Out on thee,' cried Hisham. 'Dost thou not know me?' 'Verily,' rejoined the
youth, 'thine unmannerliness hath made thee known to me, in that thou spokest to me, without
beginning by the salutation."[FN#126] 'Out on thee!' repeated the Khalif. 'I am Hisham ben
Abdulmelik.' 'May God not favour thy dwellings,' replied the Arab, 'nor guard thine abiding-place!
How many are thy words and how few thy generosities!' Hardly had he spoken, when up came the
troops from all sides and surrounded him, saying, 'Peace be on thee, O Commander of the Faithful!'
Quoth Hisham, 'Leave this talk and seize me yonder boy.' So they laid hands on him; and when
he saw the multitude of chamberlains and viziers and officers of state, he was in nowise concerned
and questioned not of them, but let his chin fall on his breast and looked where his feet fell,
till they brought him to the Khalif,[FN#127] when he stood before him, with head bowed down,
and saluted him not neither spoke. So one of the attendants said to him, 'O dog of the Arabs,
what ails thee that thou salutest not the Commander of the Faithful?' The youth turned to him
angrily and replied, 'O packsaddle of an ass, the length of the way it was that hindered me
from this and the steepness of the steps and sweat.' Then said Hisham (and indeed he was exceeding
wroth), 'O boy, thou art come to thy last hour; thy hope is gone from thee and thy life is
past.' 'By Allah, O Hisham,' answered the Arab, 'if the time[FN#128] be prolonged and its cutting
short be not ordained of destiny, thy words irk me not, be they much or little.' Then said
the (chief) chamberlain to him, 'O vilest of the Arabs, what art thou to bandy words with the
Commander of the Faithful?' He answered promptly, 'Mayest thou meet with adversity and may
woe and mourning never depart from thee! Hast thou not heard the saying of God the Most High?
"One day, every soul shall come to give an account of itself."'[FN#129] "At this, Hisham rose,
in great wrath, and said, 'O headsman, bring me his head; for indeed he multiplies talk, such
as passes conception, and fears not reproach.' So the headsman took him and making him kneel
on the carpet of blood, drew his sword and said to the Khalif, 'O Commander of the Faithful,
shall I smite off the head of this thy misguided slave, who is on the way to his grave, and
be quit of his blood?' 'Yes,' replied Hisham. He repeated his question and the Khalif again
replied in the affirmative. Then he asked leave a third time, and the youth, knowing that,
if the Khalif assented yet once more, it would be the signal of his death, laughed till his
wang-teeth appeared; at which Hisham's wrath redoubled and he said to him, 'O boy, meseems
thou art mad; seest thou not that thou art about to depart the world? Why then dost thou laugh
in mockery of thyself?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered the young Arab, 'if my life
is to be prolonged, none can hurt me, great or small; but I have bethought me of some verses,
which do thou hear, for my death cannot escape thee.' 'Say on and be brief,' replied Hisham;
so the Arab repeated the following verses: A hawk once seized a sparrow, so have I heard men
say, A sparrow of the desert, that fate to him did throw; And as the hawk was flying to nestward
with his prize, The sparrow in his clutches did thus bespeak his foe: "There's nought in me
the stomach of such as thou to stay; Indeed, I'm all too paltry to fill thy maw, I trow." The
hawk was pleased and flattered with pride and self conceit;   He smiled for self-contentment
and let the sparrow go. At this Hisham smiled and said, 'By my kinship to the Prophet (whom
God bless and preserve), had he spoken thus at first, I had given him all he asked, except
the Khalifate!' Then he bade his servants stuff his mouth with jewels and entreat him courteously;
so they did as he bade them and the Arab went his way.

                  IBRAHIM BEN EL MEHDI AND THE
                        BARBER-SURGEON.

When the Khalifate fell to El Mamoun the son of Haroun er Reshid, the latter's brother Ibrahim,
son of El Mehdi, refused to acknowledge his nephew and betook himself to Er Rei,[FN#130] where
he proclaimed himself Khalif and abode thus a year and eleven months and twelve days.  Meanwhile
Mamoun remained awaiting his return to allegiance, till, at last, despairing of this, he mounted
with his horsemen and footmen and repaired to Er Rei in quest of him.  When the news came to
Ibrahim, he found nothing for it but to flee to Baghdad and hide there, fearing for his life;
and Mamoun set a price of a hundred thousand dinars upon his head.

(Quoth Ibrahim) 'Now when I heard of this price being set upon my head, I feared for myself
and knew not what to do: so I disguised myself and went forth of my house at midday, knowing
not whither I should go.  Presently, I entered a street that had no issue and said in myself,
"Verily, we are God's and to Him we return!  I have exposed myself to destruction.  If I retrace
my steps, I shall arouse suspicion."  Then I espied, at the upper end of the street, a negro
standing at his door; so I went up to him and said to him, "Hast thou a place where I may abide
awhile of the day?"  "Yes," answered he, and opening the door, admitted me into a decent house,
furnished with carpets and mats and cushions of leather.  Then he shut the door on me and went
away; and I misdoubted me he had heard of the reward offered for me and said in myself, "He
has gone to inform against me."  But, as I sat pondering my case and boiling like the pot over
the fire, my host came back, followed by a porter loaded with meat and bread and new cooking-pots
and goblets and a new jar and other needful gear.  He took them from the porter and dismissing
him, said to me, "I make myself thy ransom!  I am a barber-surgeon, and I know it would mislike
thee to eat with me, because of the way in which I get my living; so do thou shift for thyself
with these things whereon no hand hath fallen."  Now I was anhungred; so I cooked me a pot
of meat, whose like I mind me not ever to have eaten; and when I had done my desire, he  said
to me, "O my lord, God make me thy ransom!  Art thou for wine?  Indeed, it gladdens the soul
and does away care."  "I have no objection," replied I, being desirous of his company; so he
brought me new flagons of glass, that no hand had touched, and a jar of excellent wine, and
said to me, "Mix for thyself, to thy liking."  So I cleared the wine and mixed myself a most
pleasant draught.  Then he brought me a new cup and fruits and flowers in new vessels of earthenware;
after which he said to me, "Wilt thou give me leave to sit apart and drink of wine of my own
by myself, of my joy in thee and for thee?"  "Do so."  answered I.  So we drank, he and I,
till the wine began to take effect upon us, when he rose and going to a closet, took out a
lute of polished wood and said to me, "O my lord, it is not for the like of me to ask thee
to sing, but it behoves thine exceeding generosity to render my respect its due; so, an thou
see fit to honour thy slave, thine is the august decision."  Quoth I (and indeed I thought
not that he knew me), "How knowest thou that I excel in song?"  "Glory be to God!" answered
he.  "Our lord is too well renowned for that![FN#131] Thou art my lord Ibrahim, son of El Mehdi,
our Khalif of yesterday, he on whose head Mamoun hath set a price of a hundred thousand dinars:
but thou art in safety with me."  When I heard him say this, he was magnified in my eyes and
his loyalty was certified to me; so I complied with his wish and took the lute and tuned it.
Then I bethought me of my severance from my children and my family and sang the following verses:

It may be that He, who restored his folk to Joseph of old And
     raised him to high estate from the prison where in bonds he
     lay,
Will hear our prayer and unite us; for Allah, the Lord of the
     worlds, All-powerful is, and His puissance knows neither let
     nor stay.

When the barber heard this, exceeding delight took possession of him and he was of great good
cheer; (for it is said that when Ibrahim's neighbours heard him [but] say, "Ho, boy, saddle
the mule!"  they were filled with delight).  Then, being overborne by mirth, he said to me
(continues Ibrahim), "O my lord, wilt thou give me leave to say what is come to my mind, for
all I am not of the folk of the craft?"  "Do so," answered I; "this is of thy great courtesy
and kindness."  So he took the lute and sang the following verses:

Unto our loved ones we made our moan of our nights so long and
     drear; And lo, "How short is the night with us!" quoth they
     we hold so dear.
This is because quick-coming sleep closes their happy eyes, But
     slumber comes not to close our lids, that burn with many a
     tear.
When the night approaches, the night so dread and drear to those
     that love, We are oppressed with grief; but they rejoice,
     when the night draws near.
Had they but drunken our bitter cup and suffered of our dole,
     Then were their nights as ours, as long and full of heavy
     cheer.

"Thou hast acquitted thee rarely, O my friend," said I, "and hast done away from me the pangs
of sorrow.  Let me hear more trifles of thy fashion."  So he sang these verses:

So a man's honour be unstained and free of all impair, Lo, every
     garment that he dights on him is fit and fair.
She taunted me, because, forsooth, our numbers were but few; But
     I "The noble," answer made, "are ever few and rare."
It irks us nought that we are few and eke our neighbour great,
     For all the neighbours of most folk are scant and mean
     elsewhere;
For we're a folk, that deem not death an evil nor reproach,
     Albeit Aamir and Seloul so deem, of their despair.
The love of death that is in us brings near our ends to us, But
     theirs, who loathe and rail at it, are long and far to fare.
We, an it like us, give the lie to others of their speech; But,
     when we speak, no man on earth to gainsay us doth dare.

When I heard this, I was filled with delight and marvelled exceedingly.  Then I slept and awoke
not till past nightfall, when I washed my face, with a mind full of the high worth of this
barber-surgeon; after which I aroused him and taking out a purse I had with me, containing
a considerable sum of money, threw it to him, saying, "I commend thee to God, for I am about
to go forth from thee, and beg thee to spend what is in this purse on thine occasions; and
thou shalt have an abounding reward of me, when I am quit of my fear."  But he returned it
to me, saying, "O my lord, poor wretches like myself are of no value in thine eyes; but how,
for mine own dignity's sake, can I take a price for the boon which fortune hath vouchsafed
me of thy favour and company? By Allah, if thou repeat thy words and throw the purse to me
again, I will kill myself."  So I put the purse in my sleeve (and indeed its weight was irksome
to me) and would have gone away; but when I came to the door of the house, he said to me, "O
my lord, this is a safer hiding-place for thee than another, and thy keep is no burden to me;
so do thou abide with me, till God grant thee relief."  So I turned back, saying, "On condition
that thou spend of the money in this purse."  He let me believe that he consented to this,
and I abode with him some days in the utmost comfort; but, perceiving that he spent none of
the contents of the purse, I revolted at the idea of abiding at his charge and thought shame
to be a burden on him; so I disguised myself in women's apparel, donning walking-boots and
veil, and left his house.

When I found myself in the street, I was seized with excessive fear, and going to pass the
bridge, came to a place sprinkled with water, where a trooper, who had been in my service,
saw me and knowing me, cried out, saying, "This is he whom Mamoun seeks!"  Then he laid hold
of me, but the love of life lent me strength and I gave him a push, which threw him and his
horse down in that slippery place, so that he became an example to those who will take warning
and the folk hastened to him. Meanwhile, I hurried on over the bridge and entered a street,
where I saw the door of a house open and a woman standing in the vestibule.  So I said to her,
"O my lady, have pity on me and save my life; for I am a man in fear."  Quoth she, "Enter and
welcome;" and carried me into an upper chamber, where she spread me a bed and brought me food,
saying, "Calm thy fear, for not a soul shall know of thee."  As she spoke, there came a loud
knocking at the door; so she went and opened, and lo, it was my friend whom I had thrown down
on the bridge, with his head bound up, the blood running down upon his clothes and without
his horse.  "O so and so," said she, "what hath befallen thee?" Quoth he, "I made prize of
the man [whom the Khalif seeks] and he escaped from me."  And told her the whole story.  So
she brought out tinder and applying it to his head, bound it up with a piece of rag; after
which she spread him a bed and he lay sick.  Then she came up to me and said, "Methinks thou
art the man in question?"  "I am," answered I, and she said, "Fear not: no harm shall befall
thee," and redoubled in kindness to me.

I abode with her three days, at the end of which time she said to me, "I am in fear for thee,
lest yonder man happen upon thee and betray thee to what thou dreadest; so save thyself by
flight."  I besought her to let me tarry till nightfall, and she said, "There is no harm in
that."  So, when the night came, I put on my woman's attire and taking leave of her, betook
me to the house of a freed woman, who had once been mine.  When she saw me, she wept and made
a show of affliction and praised God the Most High for my safety.  Then she went forth, as
if she would go to the market, in the interests of hospitality, and I thought no harm; but,
ere long, I espied Ibrahim el Mausili[FN#132] making for the house, with his servants and troopers,
led by a woman whom I knew for the mistress of the house.  She brought them to my hiding-place
and delivered me into their hands, and I saw death face to face.  They carried me, in my woman's
attire, to Mamoun, who called a general council and let bring me before him.  When I entered
I saluted him by the title of Khalif, saying, "Peace be on thee, O Commander of the Faithful!"
and he replied, "May God neither give thee peace nor bless thee!"  "At thy leisure, O Commander
of the Faithful!"  rejoined I.  "It is for him in whose hand is revenge[FN#133] to decree retaliation
or forgiveness; but forgiveness is nigher to the fear of God, and God hath set thy forgiveness
above all other, even as He hath made my sin to excel all other sin.  So, if thou punish, it
is of thy right, and if thou pardon, it is of thy bounty."  And I repeated the following verses:

Great is my sin, in sooth, 'gainst thee, But thou art greater
     still, perdie.
So take thy due of me, or else Remit it of thy clemency.
If of the noble I've not been Indeed, yet do thou of them be.

At this he raised his head to me and I hastened to add these verses:

Indeed, I've offended full sore, But thou art disposed to
     forgive.
'Twere justice to punish my crime And grace to allow me to live.

Then he bowed his head and repeated the following verses:

Whenas a friend against me doth grievously offend And maketh me
     with anger to choke, yet in the end,
I pardon his offending and take him back again Into my favour,
     fearing to live without a friend.

When I heard this, I scented the odour of mercy, knowing his disposition to clemency.  Then
he turned to his son El Abbas and his brother Abou Ishac and other his chief officers there
present and said to them, "What deem ye of his case!"  They all counselled him to slay me,
but differed as to the manner of my death.  Then said he to Ahmed ibn Ali Khalid,[FN#134] "And
what sayst thou, O Ahmed?"  "O Commander of the Faithful," answered he, "if thou put him to
death, we find thy like who hath slain the like of him; but, if thou pardon him, we find not
the like of thee that hath pardoned the like of him."  At this Mamoun bowed his head and repeated
the following verse:

The people of my tribe, they have my brother slain; But, an I
     shoot, my shaft reverts to me again.

And also these:

Use not thy brother with despite, Although he mingle wrong with
     right,
And still be kind to him, all be With thanklessness he thee
     requite;
And if he go astray and err One day, revile thou not the wight.
Seest not that loved and loathed at once In every way of life
     unite?
That by the annoy of hoary hairs Embittered is long life's
     delight,
And that the bristling thorns beset The branch with pleasant
     fruits bedight?
Who is it doth good deeds alone And who hath never wrought
     unright?
Prove but the age's sons, thou'lt find The most have fallen from
     the light.

When I heard this, I uncovered my head and cried out, saying, "God is most great!  By Allah,
the Commander of the Faithful pardons me!"  Quoth he, "No harm shall come to thee, O uncle."
And I, "O Commander of the Faithful, my offence is too great for me to attempt to extenuate
it and thy pardon is too great for me to speak a word of thanks for it."  And I chanted the
following verses:

Sure, He, who made the virtues all, stored them in Adam's loins
     For His high-priest, the seventh prince of Abbas' royal
     seed!
The hearts of all the folk are filled with reverence for thee,
     And thou, with meek and humble heart, dost keep them all and
     lead.
Error-deluded as I was, against thee I rebelled, Intent on
     covetise alone and base ambitious greed;
Yet hast thou pardon giv'n to one, the like of whom before Was
     never pardoned, though for him no one with thee did plead,
And on a mother's bleeding heart hadst ruth and little ones, Like
     to the desert-grouse's young, didst pity in their need.

Quoth Mamoun, "I say, like our lord Joseph (on whom and on our Prophet be peace and blessing),
'There shall be no reproach on thee this day.  God will forgive thee, for He is the Most Merciful
of the Merciful ones.'[FN#135] Indeed, I pardon thee, O uncle, and restore thee thy goods and
lands, and no harm shall befall thee."  So I offered up devout prayers for him and repeated
the following verses:

My wealth thou hast given me again and hast not begrudged it to
     me; Yea, and to boot, before this, my life and my blood thou
     didst spare.
So if, thine approval to win, I lavish my blood and my wealth And
     e'en to the shoe off my foot, in thy service, I strip myself
     bare,
'Twere but the restoring to thee of the loans that I owe to thy
     grace Which none might reproach thee nor blame, I trow,
     hadst thou chos'n to forbear.
Ungrateful henceforth if I prove for the favours vouchsafed me by
     thee, Still worthier of blame than thyself of honour and
     reverence I were.

Then Mamoun showed me honour and favour and said to me, "O uncle, Abou Ishac and Abbas counselled
me to put thee to death."  "And they counselled thee right loyally, O Commander of the Faithful,"
answered I; "but thou hast done after thine own nature and hast put away what I feared with
what I hoped."  "O uncle," rejoined he, "thou didst extinguish my rancour with the humbleness
of thine excuse, and I pardon thee without making thee drink the bitterness of obligation to
intercessors."  Then he prostrated himself in prayer a long while, after which he raised his
head and said to me, "O uncle, knowest thou why I prostrated myself?" "Haply," answered I,
"thou didst this in thanksgiving to God, for that He hath given thee the mastery over thine
enemy."  "Not so," rejoined he, "but to thank Him for having inspired me to pardon thee and
purified my mind towards thee.  Now tell me thy story." So I told him all that had befallen
me and he sent for the freed-woman, who was in her house, expecting the reward.  When she came,
he said to her, "What moved thee to deal thus with thy lord?"  And she answered, "Lust of money."
"Hast thou a child or a husband?"  asked the Khalif; and she said, "No."  So he bade give her
a hundred blows with a whip and imprisoned her for life. Then he sent for the soldier and his
wife and the barber-surgeon and asked the former what had moved him to do thus.  "Lust of money,"
answered he; whereupon quoth the Khalif, "It befits that thou be a  barber-surgeon,"[FN#136]
and committed him to one whom he charged to place him in a barber's shop, where he might learn
the craft.  But his wife he entreated with honour and lodged in his palace, saying, "This is
a woman of sense and apt for matters of moment."  Then said he to the barber-surgeon, "Verily,
what has come to light of thy worth and generosity calls for extraordinary honour."  So he
commanded the trooper's house and all that was therein to be given him and bestowed on him
a dress of honour and fifteen thousand dinars.'

                       THE CITY OF IREM.

It is related that Abdallah ben Abou Kilabeh went forth in quest of a camel that had strayed
from him; and as he was wandering in the deserts of Yemen and Sebaa, he came upon a great city
in whose midst was a vast citadel compassed about with pavilions, that rose high into the air.
He made for the place, thinking to find there inhabitants, of whom he might enquire concerning
his camel; but, when he reached it, he found it deserted, without a living soul in it. So (quoth
Abdallah), 'I alighted and hobbling my she-camel, took courage and entered the city. When I
came to the citadel, I found it had two vast gates, never in the world was seen their like
for size and loftiness, inlaid with all manner jewels and jacinths, white and red and yellow
and green. At this I marvelled greatly and entering the citadel, trembling and dazed with wonder
and affright, found it long and wide, as it were a city[FN#137] for bigness; and therein were
lofty storied pavilions, builded of gold and silver and inlaid with many- coloured jewels and
jacinths and chrysolites and pearls. The leaves of their doors were even as those of the citadel
for beauty and their floors strewn with great pearls and balls, as they were hazel-nuts, of
musk and ambergris and saffron. When I came within the city and saw no human being therein,
I had nigh- well swooned and died for fear. Moreover, I looked down from the summit of the
towers and balconies and saw rivers running under them; in the streets were fruit-laden trees
and tall palms, and the manner of the building of the city was one brick of gold and one of
silver. So I said to myself, "Doubtless this is the Paradise promised for the world to come."
Then I took of the jewels of its gravel and the musk of its dust as much as I could bear and
returned to my own country, where I told the folk what I had seen.

After awhile, the news reached Muawiyeh ben Abou Sufyan, who was then Khalif in the Hejaz;
so he wrote to his lieutenant in Senaa of Yemen to send for the teller of the story and question
him of the truth of the case. Accordingly the lieutenant sent for me and questioned me, and
I told him what I had seen; whereupon he despatched me to Muawiyeh, to whom I repeated my story;
but he would not credit it. So I brought out to him some of the pearls and balls of musk and
ambergris and saffron, in which latter there was still some sweet smell; but the pearls were
grown yellow and discoloured. The Khalif wondered at this and sending for Kaab el Ahbar,[FN#138],
said to him, "O Kaab el Ahbar, I have sent for thee to learn the truth of a certain matter
and hope that thou wilt be able to certify me thereanent." "What is it, O Commander of the
Faithful?" asked Kaab, and Muawiyeh said, "Wottest thou of a city builded of gold and silver,
the pillars whereof are of rubies and chrysolites and its gravel pearls and balls of musk and
ambergris and saffron?" "Yes, O Commander of the Faithful," answered Kaab. "It is Irem of the
Columns, the like of which was never made in the lands,'[FN#139] and it was Sheddad son of
Aad the Great that built it." Quoth the Khalif, "Tell us of its history," and Kaab said, "Aad
the Great had two sons, Shedid and Sheddad. When their father died, they ruled in his stead,
and there was no king of the kings of the earth but was subject to them. After awhile Shedid
died and his brother Sheddad reigned over the earth alone. Now he was fond of reading in old
books, and happening upon the description of the world to come and of Paradise, with its pavilions
and galleries and trees and fruits and so forth, his soul moved him to build the like thereof
in this world, after the fashion aforesaid.[FN#140] Now under his hand were a hundred thousand
kings, each ruling over a hundred thousand captains, commanding each a hundred thousand warriors;
so he called these all before him and said to them, 'I find in old books and histories a description
of Paradise, as it is to be in the next world, and I desire to build its like in this world.
Go ye forth therefore to the goodliest and most spacious tract in the world and build me there
a city of gold and silver, whose gravel shall be rubies and chrysolites and pearls and the
columns of its vaults beryl. Fill it with palaces, whereon ye shall set galleries and balconies,
and plant its lanes and thoroughfares with all manner of trees bearing ripe fruits and make
rivers to run through it in channels of gold and silver.' 'How can we avail to do this thing,'
answered they, 'and whence shall we get the chrysolites and rubies and pearls whereof thou
speakest?' Quoth he, 'Know ye not that all the kings of the word are under my hand and that
none that is therein dare gainsay my commandment?' 'Yes,' answered they; 'we know that.' 'Get
ye then,' rejoined he, 'to the mines of chrysolites and rubies and gold and silver and to the
pearl-fisheries and gather together all that is in the world of jewels and metals of price
and leave nought; and take also for me such of these things as be in men's hands and let nothing
escape you: be diligent and beware of disobedience.'

