In reply to AMATEUR, I can inform him that at the sale of the Marlborough effects at Marlborough
House about thirty years ago, there were sold four or five small whole-lengths in oil of members
of that family. They were hardly clever enough for what Hogarth's after-style would lead us
to expect, but there were many reasons for thinking they were by him. They came into the possession
of Mr. Croker, who presented them, as family curiosities, to the second Earl Spencer, and they
are now, I presume, in the gallery at Althorpe. One of them was peculiarly curious as connected
with a remarkable anecdote of the great Duchess.

One of the portraits I speak of was of Lady Bateman, and bore on its face evidence of having
incurred some damage, for the coat of arms with which (like all the others, and as was Hogarth's
fashion) it was ornamented in one corner, were angrily scratched out, as with a knife. Whether
this defacement gave rise to Walpole's story, or whether the face had been also blackened with
some stuff that was afterwards removed, seems doubtful; the picture itself, according to my
recollection, showed no mark but the armorial defacement.

I much wonder this style of small whole-lengths has not been more prevalent; they give the
general air and manner of the personage so much better than the bust size can do, and they
are so much more suited to the size of our ordinary apartments.

C.

Referring to AN AMATEUR'S inquiry as to where any pictures painted by Hogarth are to be seen,
I beg to say that I have in my possession, and should be happy to show him, the portrait of
Hogarth's wife (Sir William Thornhill's daughter), painted by himself.

LYNDON ROLLS.

Banbury.

The late Bishop Luscombe showed me, at Paris, in 1835, a picture of "The Oratorio,"--a subject
well known from Hogarth's etching. He told me that he bought it at a broker's shop in the Rue
St. Denis; that, on examination, he found the frame to be English; and that, as the price was
small--thirty francs, if I remember rightly--he bought the piece, without supposing it to be
more than a copy. Sir William Knighton, on seeing it in the bishop's collection, told him that
Hogarth's original had belonged to the Dukes of Richmond, and had been in their residence at
Paris until the first Revolution, since which time it had not been heard of; and Sir William
had no doubt that the bishop had been so fortunate as to recover it. Perhaps some of your readers
may have something to say on this story.

J. C. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Washing Collodion Process.--In "N. & Q.," No. 153., p. 320., your valued correspondent DR.
DIAMOND states "that up to the final period of the operation, no washing of the plate is requisite.
It prevents, rather than assists, the necessary chemical action.".

Now, in all other instructions I have yet seen, it is directed to wash off the iron, or other
developing solution, prior to immersing in the hypo., and after {485} such immersion, again
to wash well in water. I shall feel greatly obliged if DR. D. will be kind enough to state
whether the first-named washing is requisite, or whether the properties of the hypo., or the
beauty of the picture, will be in any way injured by the previous solutions not having been
washed off, prior to the fixings.

C. W.

    [We have submitted this Query to DR. DIAMOND, who informs us that he
    never adopts the practice of washing off the developing fluid, and
    considers it not only needless, but sometimes prejudicial, as when such
    washing has not been resorted to, the hyposulphite solution flows more
    readily over the picture, and causes none of the unpleasant stains
    which frequently occur in pictures which have been previously washed,
    especially if hard water has been used. But besides this, and the
    saving of time, the doing away with this unnecessary washing economises
    water, which in out-door practice is often a great consideration. DR.
    DIAMOND would again impress upon our readers the advantage of using the
    hyposulphite over and over again, merely keeping up its full strength
    by the addition of fresh crystals of the salt from time to time, as
    such practice produces pictures of whiter and softer tone than are ever
    produced by the raw solution.]

Colouring Collodion Pictures (Vol. vii., p. 388.)--A patent has just been taken out (dated
September 23, 1852) for this purpose, by Mons. J. L. Tardieu, of Paris. He terms his process
tardiochromy. It consists in applying oil or other colours at the back of the pictures, so
as to give the requisite tints to the several parts of the photograph, without at all interfering
with its extreme delicacy. It may even, in some cases, be used to remedy defects in the photographic
picture. The claim is essentially for the application of colours at the back, instead of on
the surface of photographs, whatever kind of colours may be used. It is therefore, of course,
applicable only to photographs taken on paper, glass, or some transparent material.

A. C. WILSON.

Wanted, a simple Test for a good Lens.--As all writers on Photography agree that the first
great essential for successful practice is a good lens--that is to say, a lens of which the
visual and chemical foci coincide--can any of the scientific readers of "N. & Q." point out
any simple test by which unscientific parties desirous of practising photography may be enabled
to judge of the goodness of a lens? A country gentleman, like myself, may purchase a lens from
an eminent house, with an assurance that it is everything that can be desired (and I am not
putting an imaginary case), and may succeed in getting beautiful images upon his focussing-glass,
but very unsatisfactory pictures; and it may not be until he has almost abandoned photography,
in despair at his own want of skill, that he has the opportunity of showing his apparatus,
manipulation, &c. to some more practised hand, who is enabled to prove that the lens was not
capable of doing what the vendors stated it could do. Surely scientific men must know of a
simple test which would save the disappointment I have described; and I hope some one will
take pity upon me, and send it to "N. & Q.," for the benefit of myself and every other

COUNTRY PRACTITIONER.

Photographic Tent--Restoration of Faded Negatives.--In Vol. vii., p. 462., I find M. F. M.
inquiring for a cheap and portable tent, effective for photographic operations out of doors.
I have for the last two years, and in mid-day (June), prepared calotype paper, and also the
collodion glass plates, for the camera, under a tent of glazed yellow calico of only a single
thickness: the light admitted is very great, but does not in the least injure the most sensitive
plate or paper. It is made square like a large bag, so that in a room I can use it double as
a blind; and out of doors, in a high wind, I have crept into it, and prepared my paper opposite
the object I intended to calotype.

I should be glad it any of your readers would inform me how a failed negative calotype can
be restored to its original strength. I last year took a great number, some of which have nearly
faded away; and others are as strong, and as able to be used to print from, as when first done.
The paper was prepared with the single iodide of silver solution, and rendered sensitive with
aceto-nitrate sil. and gallic acid in the usual way. I attribute the fading to the hyposulphate
not being got rid of; and the question is, Can the picture he restored?

Are DR. DIAMOND'S Notes published yet?

S. S. B., Jun.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Gibbon's Library (Vol. vii., p. 407.).--I visited it in 1825, in company with Dr. Scholl, of
Lausanne, who took charge of it for Mr. Beckford. It was sold between 1830 and 1835, partly
by auction, partly by private sale in detail.

JAMES DENNISTOUN.

Robert Drury (Vol. v., p. 533.).--I am afraid that the credit attachable to Drury's Madagascar
is not supported or strengthened by the announcement that the author was "every day to be spoken
with" at Old Tom's Coffee House in Birchin Lane. The Apparition of Mrs. Veal, and other productions
of a similar description, should make us very doubtful as regards the literature of the earlier
part of the eighteenth century. Might not a person have been suborned to represent the fictitious
Robert Drury, to the benefit of the coffee-house keeper as well as the publisher? I am induced
to express this suspicion by a parallel case of the same period. The Ten Years' Voyages of
Captain George Roberts, London, 1726, is universally, I {486} believe, considered fictitious,
and ascribed to Defoe; yet at the end of the work we find:

    "N. B.--The little boy so often mentioned in the foregoing sheets, now
    lives with Mr. Galapin, a tobacconist, in Monument Yard; and may be
    referred to for the truth of most of the particulars before related."

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

Grub Street Journal (Vol. vii., p. 383.).--MR. JAMES CROSSLEY, after quoting Eustace Budgell's
conjectures as to the writers of this paper, leaves it as doubtful whether Pope was or was
not one of them.

ALEXANDER ANDREWS.

Wives of Ecclesiastics (Vol. i., p. 115.).--In considering "the statutes made by Anselm, Archbishop
of Canterbury, Thomas, Archbishop of York, and all the other bishops of England," ann. 1108,
interdicting the marriage of ecclesiastics, might it not be worth investigating, by such of
your correspondents as are curious on the subject, what had been the antecedents of the several
bishops themselves?

With respect to Thomas II., Archbishop of York, it is historically certain, that he was the
son of an ecclesiastic, and likewise the grandson of an ecclesiastic (his father being one
of the bishops who concurred in these statutes). Neither does it seem altogether unlikely that
Thomas himself also had spent some part of his early life in bonds of wedlock, since we learn
from the Monasticon (vol. iii. p. 490. of new edit.), that "Thomas, son of Thomas (the second
of that name), Archbishop of York, confirmed what his predecessors, Thomas and Girard, had
given," &c. If this be correct, as stated[4], the conclusion is inevitable; but possibly some
error may have arisen out of the circumstance, that Thomas I. and Thomas II., Archbishops of
York, were uncle and nephew.

J. SANSOM.

[Footnote 4: Robertus Bloëtus also, who was still Bishop of Lincoln, and Rogerus, Bishop of
Salisbury, appear to have had sons, though, perhaps, not born in wedlock; but query.]

Blanco White.--In Vol. vii., p. 404., is a copy of a sonnet which is said to be "on the Rev.
Joseph Blanco White." This sonnet is one which I have been in search of for some years. I saw
it in a newspaper (I believe the Athenæum), but not having secured a copy of it at the time,
now ten or twelve years ago, I have had occasion to regret it ever since, and am consequently
much obliged to BALLIOLENSIS for his preservation of it in "N. & Q." "It is needless," as he
well observes, "to say anything in its praise." I should add, that my strong impression is
that this sonnet was written by Blanco White.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Captain Ayloff (Vol. vii., p. 429.).--Your correspondent will find a short notice of Capt.
Ayloff in Jacob's Poetical Register (1719-20, 8vo., 2 vols.), and two of his poetical pieces--"Marvell's
Ghost" and the "Cambridge Commencement"--in Nichols's Collection of Poems (vol. iii. pp. 186-188.),
1780, 12mo. There is considerable vigour in his "Marvell's Ghost;" and had he cultivated his
talent, he might have taken a respectable place as a poet amongst the writers of his time.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

General Monk and the University of Cambridge (Vol. vii., p. 427.).--I cannot doubt that "W.
D." was Dr. William Dillingham, Master of Emmanuel College, and Vice-Chancellor of the University,
from November 1659 till November 1660.

The election to which his letter relates took place April 3, 1660. The votes were:

  Lord General Moncke                             341
  Thomas Crouch, M.A., Fellow of Trin. Coll.      211
  Oliver St. John, Chancellor of the University   157

The Vice-Chancellor, in his accounts, makes this charge:

    "Paid to two messengers sent to wait on y^e Lord Generall about y^e
    burgesship, 4l. 10s."--M. S. Baker, xl. 59.

On the 22nd of May, General Monk, who had been also chosen for Devonshire, made his election
to sit for that county.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

In reply to LEICESTRIENSIS, I beg leave to inform him that "W. D." was Wm. Dillingham, D.D.,
master of Clare Hall, and at the time Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge. The letter
in question, which was the original draft, was, with a variety of other family papers, stolen
from me in 1843.

J. P. ORD.

P.S.--Query, from whom did the present possessor obtain it?

The Ribston Pippin (Vol. vii., p. 436.).--The remarks of your correspondent H. C. K., respecting
the uncertain origin of the Ribston pippin, reminded me of a communication which I received
about fifty years ago, from one of the sisters of the late Sir Henry Goodricke, the last of
the family who possessed Ribston. Though it leaves the question concerning the origin of that
excellent apple unsettled, yet it may not be uninteresting to {487} H. C. K. and some others
of your numerous readers. I therefore send a transcript:

"Tradition of the Ribston Pippin Tree.

"About the beginning of the last century, Sir Henry Goodricke, father of the late Sir John
Goodricke, had three pips sent by a friend in a letter from Rouen in Normandy, which were sown
at Ribston. Two of the pips produced nothing: the third is the present tree, which is in good
health, and still continues to bear fruit."

"Another Account.

"Sir Henry, the father of the late Sir John Goodricke, being at Rouen in Normandy, preserved
the pips of some fine flavoured apples, and sent them to Ribston, where they were sown, and
the produce in due time planted in what then was the park. Out of seven trees planted, five
proved decided crabs, and are all dead. The other two proved good apples; they never were grafted,
and one of them is the celebrated original Ribston pippin tree."

The latter tradition has, I believe, always been considered as the most correct.

S. D.

Cross and Pile (Vol. vi., passim.).--The various disquisitions of your correspondents on the
word pile are very ingenious; but I think it is very satisfactorily explained as "a ship" by
Joseph Scaliger in De Re nummaria Dissertatio, Leyden, 1616:

    "Macrobius de nummo ratito loquens, qui erat æreus: ita fuisse
    signatum hodieque intelligitur in aleæ lusu, quum pueri denarios in
    sublime jactantes, Capita aut Navia, lusu teste vetustatis
    exclamant."--P. 58.

And in Scaligerana (prima):

    "Nummus ratitus--ce qu'aujourd'hui nous appellons jouer à croix ou à
    pile, car pile est un vieil mot français qui signifiait un Navire,
    unde Pilote. Ratitus nummus erat ex ære, sic dictus ab effigie
    ratus."--Tom. ii., Amsterdam, 1740, p. 130.

See also, Auctores Latinæ Linguæ, by Gothofred, 1585, p. 169. l. 53. Also, Dictionnaire National
of M. Bescherelle, tome ii. p 885., Paris, 1846, art. PILE (subst. fém.)

En passant, allow me to point out a very curious and interesting account of this game, being
the pastime of Edward II., in the Antiquarian Repertory, by Grose and Astle: Lond. 1808, 4to.,
vol. ii. pp 406-8.

[Phi].

Richmond, Surrey.

Ellis Walker (Vol. vii., p. 382.).--

    "Ellis Walker, D.D.," according to Ware, "was born in the city of York;
    but came young into Ireland, and was educated in the college of Dublin,
    where he passed through all his degrees. He fled from thence in the
    troublesome reign of King James II., and lived with an uncle at York,
    where he translated Epictetus into verse. After the settlement of
    Ireland he returned, and for seven years employed himself with great
    reputation in teaching a public school at Drogheda, where he died on
    the 17th April, 1701, in the fortieth year of his age; and was buried
    there in St. Peter's Church, and twenty years after had a monument
    erected to his memory by one of his scholars."

TYRO.

Dublin.

Blackguard (Vol. vii., pp. 77. 273.).--I am not aware that the following
extract from Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy has ever yet been quoted
under this heading. 2. Mem. 1. subs. 2. [Blake,
    1836, p. 118.]

C. FORBES.

Temple.

In looking over the second volume of "N. & Q.," I find the use of the word blackguard is referred
to, and passages illustrative of its meaning are given from the works of Beaumont and Fletcher,
Hobbes, Butler, &c. To these may be added the following fanciful use of the word, which occurs
in the poems of Charles Sackville, Earl of Dorset; the author of the well-known naval song
"To all you Ladies now at Land:"

 "Love is all gentleness, all joy,
    Smooth are his looks, and soft his pace.
  Her [Belinda's] Cupid is a blackguard boy,
    That rubs his link full in your face."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

Talleyrand (Vol. vi., p. 575.).--Talleyrand's maxim is in Young. I regret that I cannot give
the reference.

Z. E. R.

Lord King and Sclater (Vol. v., pp. 456. 518.).--By Sclater's answer, "as I am informed, the
Lord Chancellor King was himself fully convinced."--Zach. Grey's Review of Neal, p. 67., edit.
1744.

"Beware the Cat" (Vol. v., p. 319.).-The "dignitary of Cambridge" was probably Dr. Thackeray,
provost of King's, who bequeathed all his {488} black-letter books to the college. Perhaps
Beware the Cat may be among them.

Z. E. R.

"Bis dat qui cito dat" (Vol. vi., p. 376.).--The following Greek is either in the Anthologia,
or in Joshua Barnes:

    "[Greek: ôkeiai charitos glukerôterai, ên de bradunêi pasa charis
    phthinuthei, mêde legoito charis.]"

    "Gratia ab officio quod mora tardat, abest."

Z. E. R.

High Spirits a Presage of Evil.--The Note of your correspondent CUTHBERT BEDE (Vol. vii., p.
339.) upon this very interesting point recalls to my recollection a line or two in Gilfillan's
First Gallery of Literary Portraits, p. 71., which bears directly upon it. Speaking of the
death of Percy Bysshe Shelley, the author says, "During all the time he spent in Leghorn, he
was in brilliant spirits, to him a sure prognostic of coming evil." I may add, that I have
been on terms of intimacy with various persons who entertained a dread of finding themselves
in good spirits, from a strong conviction that some calamity would be sure to befall them.
This is a curious psychological question, worthy of attention.

W. SAWYER.

Brighton.

Colonel Thomas Walcot (Vol. vii., p. 382.) married Jane, the second daughter of James Purcel
of Craugh, co. Limerick, and had by her six sons and two daughters: John, the eldest, who married
Sarah Wright of Holt, in Denbighshire; Thomas, Ludlow, and Joseph, which last three died unmarried;
Edward (who died an infant); William (of whom I have no present trace); Catherine and Bridget.
The latter married, first, Mr. Cox of Waterford, and second, Robert Allen of Garranmore, co.
Tipperary. John, the eldest son, administered to his father, and possessed himself of his estates
and effects. I think his son was a John Minchin Walcot, who represented Askeaton in Parliament
in 1751, died in London in 1753, and was buried in St. Margaret's churchyard. Two years after
his death his eldest daughter married William Cecil Pery, of the line of Viscount Pery, and
had by him Edmund Henry Pery, member of parliament for Limerick in 1786. A William Walcot was
on the Irish establishment appointed a major in the 5th Regiment of Foot in 1769, but I cannot
just now say whether, or how, he was related to Colonel Thomas Walcot.

JOHN D'ALTON.

Dublin.

Wood of the Cross: Mistletoe (Vol. vii., p. 437.).--Was S. S. S.'s farmer a native of an eastern
county? If he came from any part where Scandinavian traditions may be supposed to have prevailed,
there may be some connexion between the myth, that the mistletoe furnished the wood for the
cross, and that which represents it as forming the arrow with which Hödur, at the instigation
of Lok, the spirit of evil, killed Baldyr. I have met with a tradition in German, that the
aspen tree supplied the wood for the cross, and hence shuddered ever after at the recollection
of its guilt.

T. H. L.

The tradition to which I have been always accustomed is, that the aspen was the tree of which
the cross was formed, and that its tremulous and quivering motion proceeded from its consciousness
of the awful use to which it had once been put.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Irish Office for Prisoners (Vol. vii, p 410.).--The best reference for English readers is to
Bishop Mant's edition of the Prayer-Book, in which this office is included.

J. C. R.

Andries de Græff: Portraits at Brickwall House (Vol. vii, p. 406.).--"Andries de Græff. Obiit
lxxiii., MDCLXXIV." Was this gentleman related to, or the father of, Regulus de Græf, a celebrated
physician and anatomist, born in July, 1641, at Scomharen, a town in Holland, where his father
was the first architect? Regulus de Græf married in 1672, and died in 1673, at the early age
of thirty-two. He published several works, chiefly De Organis Generationis, &c. (See Hutchinson's
Biographia Medica; and, for a complete list of his works, Lindonius Renovatus, p. 933.: Nuremberg,
1686, 4to.)

S. S. S.

Bath.

"Qui facit per alium, facit per se" (Vol. vii., p. 382.).--This is one of the most ordinary
maxims or "brocards" of the common law of Scotland, and implies that the employer is responsible
for the acts of his servant or agent, done on his employment. Beyond doubt it is borrowed from
the civil law, and though I cannot find it in the title of the digest, De Diversis Regulis
Juris Antiqui (lib. 1. tit. 17.), I am sure it will be traced either to the "Corpus Juris,"
or to one of the commentators thereupon.

W. H. M.

Christian Names (Vol. vii., p. 406.).--When Lord Coke says "a man cannot have two names of
baptism, as he may have divers surnames," he does not mean that a man may not have two or more
Christian names given to him at the font, but that, while he may have "divers surnames at divers
times," he may not have divers Christian names at divers times.

When a man changes his Christian name, he alters his legal identity. The surname, however,
is assumable at pleasure. The use of surnames came into England, according to Camden, about
{489} the time of the Conquest, but they were not in general use till long after that. Many
branches of families used to substitute the names of their estate or residence for their patronymic,
which often makes the tracing of genealogies a difficult matter. It was not till the middle
of the fourteenth century that surnames began to descend from father to son, and a reference
to any old document of the time will show how arbitrarily such names were assumed.

A surname, in short, may be called a matter of convenience; a Christian name, a matter of necessity.
The giving two Christian names at baptism did not come generally into use till, owing to the
multiplication of the patronymic, a single Christian name became insufficient to identify the
individual. Consequently an instance of a double Christian name, previous to the commencement
of the eighteenth century, is a rarity. The fifth and sixth earls of Northumberland bore the
names of Henry-Algernon Percy. The latter died in 1537.

As to the period at which Christian names were assumed as surnames, your correspondent ERICAS
is referred to Lower's English Surnames.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Your correspondent ERICA will not, I think, find an instance in this country of a person having
more than one Christian name before the last century. Charles James Fox and William Wyndham
Grenville are the two earliest instances I can find. It is trivial but curious to observe,
that in the lists given at the beginning of the Oxford Calendar of the heads of colleges and
halls from their several foundations, the first who appears with two Christian names is the
venerable president of Magdalene College. Antony Ashley Cooper is only a seeming exception;
his surname was Ashley-Cooper, as is proved by his contributing the letter a to the word cabal,
the nickname of the ministry of which he formed a part. We find the custom common enough in
Germany at the time of the Reformation, and still earlier in Italy. I apprehend that its origin
is really in the tria nomina of Roman freemen. It was introduced into this country through
our royal family, but I am not aware of any prince who had the benefit of it before Charles James.

I apprehend the passage which ERICA quotes from Lord Coke has not the significance which he
attributes to it. A man can have but one Christian or baptismal name, of however many single
names or words that baptismal name may be composed. I have spoken in this letter of two Christian
names, in order to be more intelligible at the expense of correctness.

J. J. H.

Temple.

Lamech's War-song (Vol. vii., p. 432.).--There have been many speculations about the origin
and meaning of these lines. I agree with EWALD in Die Poetischen Bücher des Alten Bundes, vol.
i., who calls it a "sword-song;" and I imagine it might have been preserved by tradition among
the Canaanitish nations, and so quoted by Moses as familiar to the Israelites. I should translate
it--

 "Adah and Zillah, hear ye my voice!
  Wives of Lemek, heed ye my saying!
  For man do I slay, for my wound;
  And child, for my bruise.
  For seven-fold is Cain avenged,
  And Lemek seventy-fold and seven."

Bishop Hall, in his Explication of Hard Texts, paraphrases it thus:

    "And Lamech said to his wives, 'Adah and Zillah, what tell you me of
    any dangers and fears? Hear my voice, oh ye faint-hearted wives of
    Lamech, and hearken unto my speech; I pass not of the strength of my
    adversary: for I know my own valour and power to revenge; if any man
    give me but a wound or a stroke, though he be never so young and lusty,
    I can and will kill him dead.'"

Your correspondent H. WALTER says that "every branch of Cain's family was destroyed by the
Deluge." Where is the authority to be found for the tradition, quoted in an Introduction to
the Books of Moses, by James Morison, p. 26., that Naameh, the daughter of Lamech the Cainite
and Zillah, married Ham, the son of Noah, and thus survived the Flood?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Traitor's Ford (Vol. vii., p. 382.).--Nothing is known of any legend in connexion with the
stirring events of the battle of Edgehill, or its times, and the origin of the name is a matter
of speculation. One Trait had lands near this stream, and it is thought by some that, from
this circumstance, it is properly Trait's Ford, corrupted into Traitor's Ford,--a locality
well known to sportsmen as a favourite meet of the Warwickshire hounds.

A. B. R.

Banbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

We understand the Committee appointed by the Society of Antiquaries to consider the best mode
of restoring the Society to its former efficient state, have agreed upon their Report, and
also to the revised laws to be recommended to the Fellows for adoption. Of the nature of alterations
suggested, we know nothing; for while, on the one hand, it is stated that the Report recommends
changes of a most sweeping character, on the other it is rumoured that the changes to be proposed
are neither many nor important. The truth in this, as in most cases, no doubt lies midway between
{490} the two: and the Report will probably be found to breathe a spirit of conservative reform.
Embracing, as the proposed changes necessarily must, points on which great difference of opinion
has existed, and may continue to exist, we hope they will receive the impartial consideration
of the Fellows; and that they will bear in mind, that in coming to the conclusions at which
they have arrived, the Committee have had the advantage of sources of information, necessarily
beyond the reach of the body generally; and that those very recommendations, which at first
sight may seem most open to objection, may probably be those which their information most completely
justifies.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Young's Night Thoughts, or Life, Death, and Immortality, revised and collated
with the early Quarto Editions, with a Life of the Author by Dr. Doran. This new, handsomely
printed, and carefully edited reprint of the great work of this noble and original writer,
is rendered more valuable by the well-written and critical Memoir of Young, which Dr. Doran
has prefixed to it.--The National Miscellany, May 1853. The first Number of a New Magazine
just issued by Mr. Parker (Oxford), with every promise of realising the objects for which it
has been projected, namely, "to aid the elevation of the reader's mind, to raise some glow
of generous desire, some high and noble thoughts, some kindly feeling, and a warm veneration
for all things that are good and true."--Cyclopædia Bibliographica, Part VIII. This most useful
work is in the present Part carried from Fawcett (John) to Göthe. Every fresh issue of it affords
additional evidence of the great utility which the complete work will prove to all authors,
preachers, students, and literary men.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

REV. A. DYCE'S EDITION OF DR. RICHARD BENTLEY'S WORKS. Vol. III. Published by Francis Macpherson,
Middle Row, Holborn. 1836.

DISSERTATION ON ISAIAH XVIII., IN A LETTER TO EDWARD KING, ESQ., by SAMUEL LORD BISHOP OF ROCHESTER
(HORSLEY). The Quarto Edition, printed for Robson. 1779.

HISTORY OF ANCIENT WILTS, by SIR R. C. HOARE. The last three Parts.

BEN JONSON'S WORKS. 9 Vols. 8vo. Vols. II., III., IV. Bds.

SIR WALTER SCOTT'S NOVELS. 41 Vols. 8vo. The last nine Vols. Boards.

H. C. B. No.

J. D. LUCAS (Bristol). The inscription is Dutch, and means "Praise God for all things."

WALTER J. WATTS will find much of the literary history of the Travels of Baron Munchausen,
which were written in ridicule of Bruce, the Abyssinian traveller, in our 3rd Vol., pp. 117,
305, 453.

P. P. Longfellow is an American, having been born at Portland. He is now, we believe, Professor
of Modern Languages and Belles Lettres at Cambridge University, U.S.

A BRITON must be aware that if we were so far to depart from our plan of avoiding religious
controversy, as to insert his Query, we should be inviting endless disputes and discussions,
such as our pages could not contain, or our readers endure.

C. M. I. The sides of the stage are described in Stage Directions as O. P. and P. S., i. e.
Opposite Promp. (or Prompter) and Promp. Side.

