XXVI  THE CIPHER SOLVED

ILLUSTRATIONS

The gem lay between them, a splash of crimson flame . . . Frontispiece

Diagram of second floor

The door opened a few inches, to reveal the figure of Alexander Burke

Cipher

Cipher (repeated)

"I'll shoot," she announced in a tense tone, "so help me, I'll shoot"

"Uncle, Uncle, sit up!  Don't go to pieces this way"

Cipher (repeated)

THE PATERNOSTER RUBY

CHAPTER I

THE SHERIDAN PARK MYSTERY

With a screaming of brakes, the elevated train on which I happened to be jerked to a stop,
and passengers intending to disembark were catapulted toward the doorways--a convenience supplied
gratis by all elevated roads, which, I have observed, is generally overlooked by their patrons.
I crammed the morning paper into my overcoat pocket, fell in with the outrushing current of
humanity, and was straightway swept upon the platform, pinched through the revolving gates,
and hustled down the covered iron stairway to the street.  Here the current broke up and diffused,
like the current of a river where it empties into the sea.

This was the first wave of the daily townward tide--clerks, shop-girls, and stenographers,
for the most part intent upon bread and butter in futuro.  The jostling and crowding was like
an old story to me; I went through the ordeal each morning with an indifference and abstraction
born of long custom.

The time of the year was January, the year itself 1892.  A clear, cold air with just enough
frost in it to stir sluggish blood, induced one to walk briskly.  It was still too early in
the day for the usual down-town crowd, and I proceeded as fast as I wanted to, allowing my
thoughts to dwell undisturbed on the big news topic of the day, which I had just been reading.
And so I did, as I strode along, with the concern of one whose interest is remote, yet in a
way affected.

So the great wheat corner was broken at last!  The coterie of operators headed by Alfred Fluette
had discovered to their dismay that the shorts were anything but "short," for all day yesterday
the precious grain had been pouring into the market in a golden flood.  Grain-laden vessels
were speeding from Argentine, where no wheat was supposed to be; trains were hurrying in from
the far Northwest; and even the millers of the land had awakened to the fact that there was
more profit in emptying their bins and selling for a dollar and sixty cents a bushel the wheat
that had cost them seventy-six cents, than there was in grinding it into flour.

It was another pirate of the pit who had brought disaster to the bulls--no other than that
old fox, Felix Page, himself a manipulator of successful big deals, and feared perhaps more
than any other figure on the Board of Trade.

But his spectacular smashing of the memorable corner has passed into history.  While Fluette's
brokers were buying and sending the price soaring--skyrocketing is more descriptive, though--Felix
Page was selling in quantities that bewildered and, since it was Page, alarmed the bulls. Insurance
on the lakes had ceased with the advent of winter; the granaries of the world were supposed
to be scraped clean; so it seemed that he must be rushing headlong to certain destruction.
Still, seeing that it was Felix Page who was doing most of the selling, Fluette's crowd was
nervous.

And the sequel, in all conscience, warranted their anxiety.  For more than a week Felix Page's
iron-prowed ships had been crushing and smashing their way through the ice, opening a way for
other ships; yesterday they had steamed into port with their precious cargoes, demoralizing
the bull clique with a deluge of golden grain.

Page settled; he had sold five million bushels, and he delivered the goods.  This was the opening
fissure.  Fluette was soon overwhelmed, and today he and his crowd would be holding a melancholy
wake over the corpse.

This, however, is not a story of stupendous battles in the arena of Commerce.  I have merely
gone behind my proper starting-point by a matter of ten minutes or so--no more--to lay before
you one of those inexplicable coincidences which, when they are flung at us, shake us from
our self-possession.  The stage was already set for me; serenely unsuspecting, I was headed
straight toward it.

Police headquarters was my destination, and I had no sooner stepped across the threshold than
I was told that the Captain was wanting to see me at once.  So I went direct to his private
office, where he was deep in conference with a party of four men, who, in spite of a general
air of gloom which seemed to envelop them, looked like a quartet of prosperous brokers.  It
occurred to me that they might have been struck by the stick of the spent rocket.

As the Captain abruptly broke off an earnest speech to wheel his chair round and address me,
the four men stared at me with a curious, unwavering interest.

Fancy how I was staggered by the first words.  My chief thrust a card in my direction, on which
was pencilled a street number.

"Go to this address at once, Swift," said he.  "It looks like murder--old Page."

"Page!" I almost shouted.  "You can't mean Felix Page!"

"What's the matter with you?  Know anything about it?"

My stupefaction was pronounced enough to excite his wonder.  I assure you, we are not often
astonished at the Central Office.

I caught my breath and shook my head.  Of course, I knew nothing about it.  But it was something
besides the amazing, unexpected intelligence of Felix Page's death that struck me right between
the eyes.  With the mention of his name, my mind cut one of those unaccountable capers which
everybody has at some time in his life experienced.

The names of Felix Page and Alfred Fluette had been before me in one way or another for days;
I had followed the remarkable wheat deal with about the same degree of interest that animated
everybody else who was not immediately concerned; but not until this moment had it impressed
me that I knew something respecting Page which had not appeared in the papers in connection
with the corner.  What was it?

But I could not remember.  This was the scurvy trick my mind was playing. I stood there staring
at the others, and they sat staring at me.  A question was halted provokingly upon the very
tip of my tongue, which, despite a most earnest whipping of memory, remained obstinately elusive.

Felix Page!  What particular, unusual circumstance was associated in my mind with that name?
Why should it come to flout me at this juncture without revealing itself?

My ineffectual effort to remember was cut short by my chief.  He scowled, manifestly in perplexity
at the way the news had affected me.

"These gentlemen," he said, with a gesture indicating the funereal quartet, "were more or less
associated with Mr. Page; he don't seem to have had any close friends; but they can tell me
nothing.  Whatever line you pick up, you must find the end of it at the scene of the crime--the
house.  The address is on that card.

"Here 's all I know about it: It must have happened sometime during the night; the report came
in from Sheridan Park station about daylight. Three men from there, Patrolmen Callahan and
O'Brien and a plain-clothes man named Stodger, are at the house holding two suspects until
somebody shows up from the Central Office.  Stodger 's in a stew; can't seem to make head nor
tail of what's happened.

"You hurry, Swift," he curtly concluded; "this is too important a matter to waste time over."

So it was.  I saluted and hastily left him.

My brain was still in a whirl; my musings and the blunt, surprising announcement had come too
close together for me to regard the supposed crime with unshaken equanimity.  Then, too, I
was still vainly striving to drag from memory's hiding-place the tantalizing circumstance which
I somehow felt was pregnant with possibilities in the light of the financier's death.  What
on earth was it?  I thought of everything else I had ever heard or read about the man.

But I was young--not only in the service, but in years as well--and this was one of my first
hard rubs with that heartless old pedagogue, Experience.

Felix Page had enjoyed--I use the word advisedly--a widespread reputation for eccentricity.
The word, I held a secret conviction, was merely a polite euphemism to cover his unscrupulous
nature.  Many acts of his were condoned, or even laughed at, which would have been nothing
short of outrageous if performed by another.  He had been widely exploited as a "character";
in reality he had been a merciless old skinflint, with a supreme disregard for the rights or
pleasures of others.

Still, it is not to be denied that his eccentricity did reveal itself in certain ways.  After
business hours he retired to a forlorn old mansion, where he lived alone, without kindred (if
he had any) or servants, save for an ancient dame who came of mornings to prepare his breakfasts,
and to discharge, under his nagging supervision, the few domestic duties necessary to meet
his requirements.

Something like a half-hour after leaving the Central Office, I arrived at the Page place. 
Stodger, a short, fat, good-natured chap, was awaiting my arrival--evidently with some impatience,
for he was stamping to and fro before the gate for warmth.  As soon as he learned my business
he conducted me up to the house.

On the way he gave me a hasty account of the crime, concerning which he frankly and whimsically
confessed to be very much at sea.

A description of the house and grounds is in order.  The location was all that could be desired,
and would have been an ideal place of residence if rehabilitated from its sorry condition of
neglect.  The house faced the north end of Sheridan Park, a glimpse of whose lagoons could
be caught here and there among the leafless trees.  It sat well back from the wide boulevard,
and, surrounded as it was by fine old elms and beeches and maples, it reminded me of some antiquated
English country home, such as I have seen in pictures.

There were any number of chimney clusters; but the general air of the place was extremely cold
and forbidding.  Notwithstanding it was mid-winter and that an inch or more of snow lay on
the ground, there was not a wisp of smoke above any of the chimneys to indicate the welcome
presence of a fire below.

A high iron fence extending along the front of the property was divided by a carriage entrance
and a smaller gate for pedestrians.  The former, barring the way to a weed- and grass-grown
drive, was hermetically sealed by rust; while the other was just as permanently fixed open
by the accumulation of earth and gravel about its lower part.  Two parallel rows of ragged,
untrimmed privet designated the tortuous way of the drive to the unused porte-cochère.

"Nasty case," Stodger was imparting, in queer staccato sentences. "Shouldn't have much difficulty,
though; responsibility lies between two men.  Here all last night.  Nobody else.  Callahan
and O'Brien holdin' 'em.  One 's Page's private secretary; fellow named Burke--Alexander Stilwell
Burke.  Peach of a monicker, ain't it?  Has all three sections on his cards.

"The other 's a young lawyer chap; calls himself Royal Maillot.  I can't pry out of either
of 'em what he was doing here."

"And nobody else, you say?" I asked when he paused.

"Nope--so they say.  Either one of 'em might have done it.  They 're down on each other for
something; glare at each other like--like--you know--cat and dog."

"Go on."

"Well, this fellow Burke--Alexander Stilwell--he comes to our shack some time after two this
A. M.  Told the desk-sergeant old Page 'd been croaked; wouldn't say anything more.  Dippy?
Say!  Acted like somebody 'd slipped him a round o' knockout-drops.  Sure thing, he did.  Would
n't budge till old Grimes sent me back with him.  I 'm only a license inspector, too.  This
is what I--h'm-m--I butted into.  Dev'lish cold, ain't it?"

He had opened the front door and ushered me into a deep, wide hall.  A broad stairway, with
carved oak balusters, rose on one side to a landing which formed a sort of balcony over the
rear end of the hall, and thence continued up to the second story.

With his concluding words, Stodger pointed up to the landing, through whose balusters I could
see a hand and a part of a motionless human form stretched out at full length upon the floor.

"Felix Page--b'r-r--dead as a door-nail," Stodger now added.  "Slugged over the head with a
heavy iron candlestick; find it lying there by him. Think of all that wheat--and them ships
crunching through the ice.  Say, it's pretty tough, ain't it?  He was--but would you rather
make an examination first?  Or shall I go on?"

I smiled at the man's air of vast importance, which discriminated not at all between grave
matters and light.  With his queer "hum's" and "haw's," his funny little exclamatory noises
and quick, jerky manner of speech, he reminded me of a jolly diminutive priest who had just
dined well.  Never was mortal freer of affectation.  And his cheerfulness?  It was as expansive
and as volatile as ether.  His buoyancy was a perpetual, never-failing tonic for doubt and
discouragement, and I have yet to witness him confronted with a situation that could in the
least dash his spirits.

He awaited my reply to his question with an air which suggested that nothing less important
than the well-being of his very existence was at stake.

"Tell me what you have learned," returned I.  Things usually acquire a more comprehensible
aspect when you have a few facts by which to measure and weigh them, and I wanted to hear Stodger's
story.

"Yip!" he cried cheerily.  "Might as well sit here as anywhere else; nobody to disturb us."

Weighted as he was with surplus flesh, his agility was amazing.  He wheeled round and plumped
down on an oak bench, not unlike a church pew, which stood against the panelled stairway beyond
the newel.  As I followed I drew my overcoat closer about me, for the hall was cold and dismal.

"This fellow Burke--Alexander Stilwell; queer chap.  Close-mouthed? Say!"--he squared around
and tapped my chest with an impressive forefinger--"a clam 's real noisy compared with him.
Fact.  Watched me steady all the time I--you know--looked at the body."

Stodger stopped abruptly, with the manner of one to whom has occurred a sudden brilliant idea.
He thumped one fat knee with a pudgy hand, and whispered with suppressed eagerness:

"By jinks, Swift!  I have it!  I 'll get Burke--Alexander Stilwell.  Let him talk--in there"--with
a violent gesture toward the opposite side of the hall--"library.  What say?  There's a--you
know--alcove--curtains.  I 'll hide behind 'em and listen; if he don't tell the story just
like he did to me, why, we 'll call the turn on him.  See?"

For various reasons I thought the idea not a bad one, and said so. Stodger was off up the stairs
like a shot.  He went nimbly round the prostrate figure on the landing without so much as a
look toward it, and disappeared.

He and another man appeared, after a while, at the back of the hall, having evidently availed
themselves of a rear stairway.

I surveyed the private secretary with much interest, and must even now confess, after no inconsiderable
study of the human face, that I have never since beheld one that was so utterly baffling.

He was a slender man of medium height, and of an age that might have been anything between
twenty and fifty; his eyes, hair, brows, and lashes were all of a uniform shade of pale yellow--excepting
that the eyes had a greenish tint--while his face and thin, nervous hands wore a dead, unwholesome
pallor.

The effect was extraordinary.  The ageless face looked as if it did not know how to conform
to or mirror any inward emotion; and furthermore, one was never precisely positive whether
or not the pale eyes were following one, for they somehow, in their uncertain fixedness, suggested
the idea that they were windows behind which the real eyes were incessantly vigilant.  So it
was when Stodger introduced him; I could not tell whether he was watching me or my colleague--or,
in truth, whether he was watching either of us.

"Mr. Burke, Mr. Swift," said Stodger, with a grand air--"Mr. Alexander Stilwell Burke."  Then,
in a hoarse aside to me:

"Little matter I want to look after; just 'tend to it while you two are talking."

CHAPTER II

THE PRIVATE SECRETARY

Stodger at once left us together, having, I surmised, his own method of getting into the curtained
alcove of which he had spoken.  In order that he should have ample time to reach it, I held
Burke with a question or two in the hall.

"Mr. Burke," said I, "who besides yourself and Mr. Page was in the house last night?"

He replied promptly, but with a deliberate precision, as if he were making a weighty confidential
communication, and wanted to be exceedingly careful to convey an exact interpretation of his
thoughts.

I might now add that this cautious, reflective manner characterized all his speech, and in
time it grew extremely aggravating.

"A young man named Maillot," he said; "Royal Maillot."

"And who is this Royal Maillot?" I next asked.

Was Burke returning my intent look?  Or did he have an eye for some fancied movement behind
him, or off there toward the closed library door?  For the life of me, I could not have told
with assurance.

"I can't tell you much from my own knowledge," he presently returned; and now I was pretty
positive that he was meeting my regard.  "Mr. Maillot is still here, however; he can speak
for himself."

"I know that"--curtly; "but I prefer to be informed beforehand--even if it's only by hearsay.
Who is Mr. Maillot?"

Again the furtive, wandering look behind the blank of the clean-shaven, ageless features.

"I 've gathered the idea that he 's a young lawyer, and that some business affair brought him
here to confer with Mr. Page.  He arrived only last night.  The whole circumstance was very
unusual."

"What do you mean by that?"

Some moments elapsed before he replied.

"Why," presently, "Mr. Page was not in the habit of seeing people here, or--as far as that's
concerned--of considering any business matters whatever after he returned home in the evening;
this was his invariable rule, excepting--"  He paused.

"Excepting what?" I urged.

"Well, occasionally--very rarely--he would have me here.  Last night was one of those occasions;
he expected to be absent from the city, and there were special instructions that he wanted
to give me, concerning certain matters that had to be looked after to-day.

"But, without an exception that I can recall, everybody else who had any business with him
was required to go to the Drovers' National, or to his office in the same building.

"Even our relations--our acquaintance--practically ended with each day's business, not to be
renewed until the next day; and I suppose I approach nearer than any of his other employees
to being what you might call a confidential clerk, or secretary."

I rose briskly to my feet.

"Let's go some place where it's more comfortable," suggested I, throwing open the library door;
"in here will do."

He entered unhesitatingly, for it is an easy matter to influence people to your will in such
trifling manoeuvres; and as I followed, I glanced about the spacious apartment.

Its walls were wainscoted with oak, save for a narrow painted frieze, and while very few books
were in evidence, the place would have been cheerful enough had there been a fire in the wide,
handsome brick fireplace, or had there existed any indication at all that the room was ever
used by human beings.  Before the cold and empty hearth stood a table, where, very likely,
Mr. Page had been in the habit of working on those rare occasions of which his secretary had
spoken.  On the right of this table was the curtained alcove.

Now Burke's conduct during the next second or so was destined, later on, to give me an idea
concerning that gentleman, which indirectly aided me in clearing up a puzzling feature of the
case.  It was this.

As I indicated the chair where I wanted him to sit--one near enough to the alcove for Stodger
not only to hear what Burke might say, but also to have the additional advantage of watching
him without much likelihood of being observed in turn--I could have sworn that Burke hesitated
and bent a doubtful, inquiring look toward the alcove; yet I am not positive that he ceased
for a moment his blank, unblinking scrutiny of me.  At any rate, he was no sooner seated than
he bounded up again.

"We can have a little more light here," said he, starting toward the alcove, behind whose curtains
Stodger was at that moment, I daresay, hastily planning a means of precipitate retreat.  I
was already seated myself, and I stayed his progress only in the nick of time.

"Burke!" I called sharply.

He wheeled about, a trifle disconcerted, I imagined.

"Please sit down," I went on authoritatively.  "You are not precisely at liberty to go just
where you please; for the present I 'm responsible for your movements."

He shrugged his shoulders and returned to his chair, remarking in an unemotional way:

"I forgot that I was under arrest."

I did n't trouble to define his position.  At best it was at that instant an anomalous one;
so far as I knew there were no grounds upon which to hold him at all; and while I would have
hesitated to say that he was actually in custody, at the same time it is also true that I would
not have permitted him to walk out of the house and away, had he desired to do so.

"Now, Mr. Burke," I went on, "tell me just what you know about this matter.  Don't slur details;
take your time."

"I know very little, Mr. Swift."

"Let's have it, nevertheless."

"About one o'clock last night I had just completed sorting some papers in my room.  They had
been in a file-case so long that they were very dusty; so when I was through I went to the
bath-room--one door from mine--to wash my hands, and while I was so engaged I was startled
by a crash, as of some one falling heavily outside.

"I picked up my candle, and looked into the hall.  At first I saw nothing, and everything was
perfectly quiet; but in a moment I noticed that an étagère, which had always stood at the head
of the stairs, was tipped forward against the banisters, and at the same time I heard Mr. Maillot
moving about in his room.  I was much perplexed to account for such a disturbance at that hour
of the night, and for a time I stood motionless, waiting to see what would occur next.  I admit
that I was even somewhat frightened; but as nothing else happened, I crossed over to Mr. Maillot's
door--directly opposite my own--and rapped.

"He threw it open at once.  He was holding a hand to his right eye, and glared at me with the
uncovered eye.  He evidently had slipped hastily into his clothes; his candle was lighted,
and I noticed that his hands and face were wet, as if he too had been washing."

"It strikes me that there was an unusual amount of hand-washing," I here observed, "considering
the hour of night.  Had the household retired?"

"Why--yes, sir--we were supposed to have done so.  But Mr. Maillot at once explained why his
hands were wet.  As he threw open the door, which he did in an angry manner, he asked me what
the devil was the matter.  I replied that I did n't know.  He then stated that he thought the
roof had caved in; that the tumult had awakened him, and that in springing out of bed he had
nearly knocked an eye out by colliding with some piece of furniture.  The pain was for a moment
so intense, he said, that he had forgotten all about the noise; so he had lighted a candle
and bathed the injured eye.  It was already beginning to swell and show signs of discoloration.
On my remarking that it was strange the noise hadn't roused Mr. Page, Mr. Maillot at once seized
his candle and preceded me into the hall.  He was the first to find Mr. Page's body.

"So far as we could determine, he was quite dead.  Mr. Maillot at once warned me not to molest
anything--he 's a lawyer, I believe--and we agreed that I should notify the police while he
remained to guard the house."

Such was Burke's story of the midnight tragedy.  Further questioning elicited the assertion
that he was utterly unable to account for Maillot's presence in the house; that he had never
seen him before, and that he was sure the young man's call had been unexpected by Mr. Page,
as the latter had, the last thing the previous evening at his office, instructed Burke to procure
a number of specified papers from the file-case, and bring them to the house after supper.

Burke believed it to have been his employer's intention to go through these documents with
him, for the purpose of selecting certain ones which had to do with a contemplated business
trip to Duluth; but Maillot had arrived about seven o'clock, and he and Mr. Page had at once
repaired to the library, where they remained until after eleven o'clock.

Burke had busied himself with other matters until convinced that, as his employer had doubtless
given over the Duluth journey, his services would not be required; whereupon he had retired
to his own room.

Such minor details were added: the only servant was a woman who came to the house of mornings,
and departed before the master went down-town; there was no telephone in the house; and the
millionaire's "eccentricities" included, among other things, a preference for candles over
any other means of artificial illumination, and a strong disinclination to consume any more
fuel than was absolutely necessary.

Learning that the woman servant was at that very moment in the house, I speedily saw to it
that a rousing fire was kindled upon every hearth and in every stove; nor were they allowed
to die out, as long as I remained beneath the roof.  Felix Page would have no further use for
his coal and kindling.

When Burke returned from discharging this errand, I continued my questioning.

"So it had been Mr. Page's intention to go to Duluth last night, eh? What for?"

"I don't know.  About vessels or his wheat shipments, I suppose; something too important to
entrust to the mail or telegraph."

"Did the coming of Mr. Maillot upset his plans?"

"I can't imagine what else caused him to change his mind at the last minute; the journey must
have been unusually important to take him away from the city at this time."

Then Maillot's mission could not have been without exceptional weight, I reflected.  And unless
I was much mistaken, the deferred journey had seriously disarranged some material plan for
Mr. Burke.  I had nothing more to say, however, for the present.

I sent Burke back to the custody of Callahan and O'Brien, to await the completion of my investigation;
for, until I became reasonably sure that I held in my hand all the available facts, it would
be rank carelessness on my part to send the whilom secretary about his business.

I would have been hard put to it to interpret the impression which Alexander Burke had made
upon my mind, if Stodger had demanded my opinion at that moment.  As his round, cherubic face
emerged between the curtains, I turned to him with considerable curiosity.

"Told it word for word as he did to me," was my companion's comment. "Could n't have told it
better if it had been a piece learnt by heart."

"Oh, he could n't, eh?" observed I, thoughtfully, leading the way to the landing.

But I could not permit myself to theorize at this stage--an indulgence which, when premature,
inevitably colors one's opinions, and prejudices all attempts at clear, logical reasoning.

CHAPTER III

SOME DISCOVERIES

But I was not yet permitted to begin my examination of the body and its immediate surroundings.
I had no sooner arrived at the landing than I heard a man's voice, somewhere above in the second
story, speaking with a note of determination that demanded some sort of recognition from the
person addressed.  The clear, ringing, resolute tone made me involuntarily pause and listen.

"Where 's your headquarters man?" the voice was irately demanding.  "I want to see him, d'
ye hear?  You blithering idiot, I 'm going down those stairs; if you want to rough it, just
try to stop me."

Another voice was raised in expostulation.  Stodger, at my elbow, suddenly chuckled.

"That's him!" he whispered, with an unaccountable excitement.  "That's Maillot!"

"He must be a tartar," I observed.

At that instant a stalwart young man, very angry and with one discolored eye that lent him
an uncommonly truculent appearance, looked down on us from the upper hall; then he deliberately
ignored the arguing policeman, strode to the head of the stairs and descended to the landing.

"It's all right, Callahan," said Stodger to the discomfited blue-coat.

The young man halted before us.

"Ass!" he growled, staring hard at me.

Stodger made the epithet exclusively mine with a bow and a broad grin. Instantly the young
fellow flushed and stammered an apology.

"I didn't mean either of you chaps," he explained, in embarrassment. "It's that chuckle-headed
hod-carrier in a blue uniform.  If he gives me any more of his cheek, I 'll take his club from
him and hand him a wallop over the head with it--dashed if I don't."

He looked eminently capable of doing it, too.  He paused, his look resting upon me with an
interrogation.

"Are you in authority here?" he bluntly demanded.

"I suppose so.  Are you Mr. Maillot?"

"I am.  And I 'd like to know how much longer I 'll have to stay in this beastly cold-storage
warehouse.  I 'm plenty tired of it right now, if you want to know."

I smiled at the resolute young fellow; there was something decidedly likable in his frank and
handsome countenance, and his blunt, intense manner.

"It all depends, Mr. Maillot.  You and Mr. Burke are the only ones who can help me to some
sort of solution of this crime--if crime it is; I take it for granted that you are willing
to do what you can."

He favored me with another stare, then stood thoughtfully pulling at his lips and gazing at
the body.

"Poor chap!" he muttered at length, in a hushed voice.  "A ghastly way to die; I 'd give a
lot to know how it happened."  Then he looked brightly at me, and asked with an almost boyish
impulsiveness:

"Are you a detective--like Stodger here?"

"I 'm a detective," I told him; "though I don't know how closely I resemble Stodger."  A sound
came from that worthy that made me think he was strangling.  "Swift is my name."

Maillot suddenly thrust out his right hand.

"Glad to know you, Swift," he said heartily.  "You look like a sensible chap.  I 'm willing
to do all I can to help you--of course I am.  It won't be much, I 'm afraid.  But if any thick-headed
cop says I can't do this or can't do that, there 's going to be trouble.  They can't bluff
me, and I know they have n't any right to dictate what I shall do."

All of which was quite true.  Maillot glanced at the body again, and lowered his voice.