Amp. Hours                    No. of Cells     No. 115 Volt Capacity       Amperes        in
Series        Lamps Required 5 Amp. Rate    Approximate    on Line          115 Volt -----------
-----------    ------------     -------------- 50 or less        0.05        3            
5-15 watt, in series 50 or less        0.05        30               2-15 watt, in series 50
or less        0.05        45               1-15 watt, in series 50-100            0.10   
3                3-25 watt, in series 50-100            0.10        3                1-25 watt,
in series 50-100            0.10        45               2-25 watt, in parallel 100 or over
0.15        3                2-25 watt, in series 100 or over       0.15        30        
1-25 watt, in series 100 or over       0.15        45               3-25 watt, in parallel

Every two months interrupt the trickle charge long enough to add water to bring the electrolyte
up to the proper level. When this has been done, continue the trickle charge.

Before putting the batteries into service, see that the electrolyte is up to the correct level,
and that the specific gravity of the electrolyte is 1.280-1.300. If necessary, give a short
charge on the charging bench to bring the specific gravity up to the correct value.

Dry Storage

1. Give the battery a complete charge. Pour out the electrolyte, and separate the groups. If
the negatives have bulged active material, press them in the plate press. In batteries such
as the Prest-OLite in which it is difficult to remove the plates from the cover, the groups
need not be separated unless the negatives have badly bulged active material. It may not be
necessary to separate the groups even then, provided that the positives are not buckled to
any noticeable extent. If only a very slight amount of buckling exists, the entire element
may be pressed by putting thin boards between the plates in place of the separators.

2. Immerse the negatives in distilled water for ten to twelve hours. If positives and negatives
cannot be separated, wash each complete element in a gentle stream of water.

3. Remove plates from water and allow them to drain thoroughly and dry. The negatives will
heat up when exposed to the air, and when they do so they should be immersed in the water again
to cool them. Repeat this as long as they tend to heat up. Then allow them to dry thoroughly.

4. Throw away the old separators. Rubber separators may be saved if in good condition. Clean
the covers and terminals., wash out the jars, and turn the case up side down to drain out the
water. Examine the box carefully. It is advisable to wash with a solution of baking soda, rinsing
the water in order to neutralize as far as possible the action of acid remaining on the box.
If this is not done, the acid may start decomposition of the box while in storage, in which
case the owner of the battery may insist on its renewal before acceptance at the end of the
storage period.

5. When, the plates are perfectly dry, nest the positives and negatives together, using dry
cardboard instead of separators, and replace them in the jars in their proper positions.

6. Replace the covers and vent plugs, but, of course, do not use any sealing compound on them.

7. Tie the terminals and top connectors to the handle on the case with a wire.

8. Tag the battery with the owner's name and address, using the tag on which you made the sketch
of the arrangement of the terminals and top connections.

9. Store the battery in a dry place, free from dust, until called for.

10. When the battery is to be put into service again, put in new separators, put the elements
in the jars, seal the covers, and burn on the top connectors and terminals (if these are of
the burned-on type). Fill the cells with electrolyte of about 1.310 specific gravity and allow
the battery to stand for ten to twelve hours in order to cool. Then put the battery on charge
at one-half the normal charging rate and charge until the specific gravity of the electrolyte
stops rising and remains stationary for five hours. The total time required for this development
charge will be about four days. Watch the temperature of the electrolyte carefully, and if
it should rise to 110° Fahrenheit, stop the charge until it cools.

11. The specific gravity will fall during the first part of the charge, due to the new separators;
at the end of the charge, the specific gravity should be 1.280-1.300. If it is not within these
limits, adjust it by withdrawing some electrolyte with the hydrometer and adding water if the
gravity is high, or 1.400 electrolyte if the gravity is low.

12. Clean the case thoroughly and give it a coat of asphaltum paint.

13.

DETERMINING AGE OF BATTERY

Battery manufacturers use codes to indicate the age of their batteries. These codes consist
of letters, figures, or combinations of letters and figures, which are stamped on the inter-cell
connectors or on the nameplate. The codes may also be burned on the case.

The codes of the leading makes of batteries follow. In addition to determining the age of a
battery by means of the code, the owner should be questioned as to the time the battery was
installed on his car. If the battery is the original one which came with the car, the dealer's
or car manufacturer's records will help determine the battery's age. If a new battery has been
installed to replace the one that came with the car, the battery distributor's records will
help determine the age of the battery.

Familiarity with the different makes and types of battery will also help in determining a battery's
age. Manufacturers make improvements in the construction of their batteries from time to time,
and by keeping up-to-date on battery constructions, it is often possible to approximate the
age of a battery by such changes.

If a battery was kept "dry" while in stock, its age should be figured from the time it was
prepared for service and placed on the car, since batteries in dry storage do not deteriorate.
Some batteries are shipped from the factory "wet," i.e., filled with electrolyte and fully
charged and the age of such batteries should be figured from the time they were shipped from
the factory, because deterioration begins as soon as a battery is filled with electrolyte.
When batteries are "dry" no chemical action can take place, and the battery does not deteriorate,
while in a "wet" battery, chemical action takes place which gradually causes a battery to deteriorate.

Exide Age Code.

Since October, 1917, the date of shipment of Exide batteries from the factory, or from Exide
Deposts has been stamped on the top of the first inter-cell connector from the negative end
of the batter instead of on the nameplate figures are used to indicate the dates, as follows:

  [Image: Exide and Philadelphia battery age code charts]

All Philadelphia batteries shipped prior to April 1, 1920 and all batteries shipped from depot
stock after this date carry double letter branding. The first battery is the factory date and
the second letter in this code indicates latest month during which the guarantee may begin.

Batteries sold direct from Philadelphia to all classes of customers after April 1, 1920, carry
the single letter branding code, indicating month of manufacture.

The letters used in the double letter age code are selected from the table given above, and
the second letter is the important one, since it gives the latest date from which adjustment
can be made. If a Philadelphia battery with a double letter age code comes in, therefore, the
foregoing table should be consulted in determining the age of the battery.

If a Philadelphia battery with a single letter age code comes in, the following table should
be consulted in determining the age of the battery:

  [Image: Single Letter Philadelphia Batteries Age Code Chart]

Prest-O-Lite Age Code.

All Prest-O-Lite batteries carry a date letter stamped on the cell-connectors. This letter
indicates the month and year in which the battery was manufactured. The letter is preceeded
by a number which represents the factory at which the battery was built.

Prest-O-Lite Factory Marks.

  Indianapolis--50    Cleveland--7    San Francisco--23

For example: "50-K" indicates that the battery was manufactured at Indianopolis in January, 1920.

In addition to the above, each "Wet" Prest-O-Lite battery is branded in the side with a date,
as "9-19," indicating October, 1919. This date is really sixty days ahead of the actual building
date, to allow time for shipping, etc., before the guarentee starts. The branded "9-19" was
actually built in August, 1919.

Titan Age Code.

The age of Titan batteries is indicated by a number stamped on one of the inter-cell connectors,
this number indicating the month the battery was hipped from the factory.

  [Image: Age code charts for Titan batteries]

  [Image: Age code charts for U.S.L., and Vesta batteries]

  [Image: Age code charts for Westinghouse and Willard batteries]

RENTAL BATTERIES

Rental batteries are those which are put on a customer's car while his own is being repaired
or recharged. They are usually rebuilt batteries turned in when a new battery is bought. They
may also be made of the good parts of batteries which are junked. By carefully saving good
parts, such as plates, jars, covers, and cases, a stock of parts will gradually be acquired
from which rental batteries may be made. Rental batteries may also be bought from the battery
manufacturers.

A supply of rental batteries should, of course, be kept ready to go out at any time. The number
of such batteries depends upon the size of the business. 25 batteries for each 1000 cars in
the territory served is a good average. Do not have too many rental batteries of the same type.
Many of them will be idle most of the time and thus will not bring in any money. Rentals should
be made to fit those makes of cars of which there are the greatest number in the territory
served by the repair shop. Sufficient parts should be kept on hand to make up other rentals
on short notice.

Terminals for Rental Batteries

There are several combination terminals on the market which allow rental batteries equipped
with them to be easily connected to several of the various types of cable terminals that are
in use. Yet it is a universal experience for the average service station always to have calls
for rental batteries with just the type of terminals which are not on hand. When the station
has many batteries with the clamp type straight posts the call always seems to be for the taper
plug type and vice versa.

  [Fig. 152 Best type of connection to be used whenever possible]

Most of us will agree that the clamp type post terminal is the cause of much trouble. It is
almost impossible to prevent corrosion at the positive post and many a car owner has found
that this has been his trouble when his lights burn all right but the battery seemingly does
not have power enough to turn over the engine and yet every cell tests 1.280. Service Station
men should not scrape and clean up a corroded clamp type terminal and put it back on again,
but should cut it off and put on either a taper plug or, preferably, a lead-plated copper terminal
lug. Of course either of these terminal connections necessitates changing the battery terminals
to correspond.

For rental batteries it will be found that short cable terminals with lead-plated copper lugs
at the end will enable a battery man to connect most any type of cable terminal on any car.
It is true that such connections must be taped up, but the prompt service rendered more than
offsets a little tape. Figures 152 to 158 illustrate how these connections can be made to the
taper plug and clamp types which are used on most cars.

  [Fig. 153 Method of connecting rental battery with cable
   terminals to car with taper plug]

  [Fig. 154 Another method of connecting copper terminal
   lug to clamp terminal on car]

  [Fig. 155 Method of connecting rental batteries with
   cable terminals to cars with clamp type terminals]

Fig. 155. A bolt is passed through the opening and a washer and nut complete the connection.
In Fig. 156 a taper plug is inserted and screwed tight. The projecting part of the plug has
been turned down to fit the clamp type terminal which is clamped to it. In Fig. 157 a bolt
is passed through and the clamp type terminal tightened to the plug type terminal with a washer
and nut.

  [Fig. 158 Lead plated copper terminal lug]

Fig. 158 shows a simple means of putting on a lead-plated copper terminal lug without solder.
These lugs should be soldered on whenever possible, but it is often a difficult job to put
one on in the confined space of some battery compartments. In such places, a quick and lasting
job can be made with a band vise and a short piece of round iron. This latter is laid across
the lug and the vise screwed up, making a crimp across the lug which firmly grips down upon
the bared cable strands that have been inserted into the lug.

New batteries sold to replace other batteries should be installed with cable connections, as
illustrated in Figure 152. This method of connecting a battery is superior to any other method
and will never cause trouble. It will usually be found that the old taper plugs or clamp terminals
that have been in use have started to corrode and that a new battery works increasingly at
a disadvantage from the day it is installed until the corrosion becomes so great that the car
cannot be started and then the customer kicks about his new battery. The best connection possible
will pay handsome dividends to all concerned, in the end.

Marking Rental Batteries. Rental batteries should be marked in a mariner which enables them
to be recognized quickly. Painting the cases a red color is a good way. The service station's
name should appear somewhere on the battery. A good plan is to have a lead tag, which is attached
to the handle at the negative end of the battery, or is tacked to the case. The name may also
be painted on the case. Each battery should be given a number which should preferably be painted
in large white figures on the end or side of each case. The number may also be stamped on a
lead tag tied to the handle at the negative end.

A service station which sells a certain make of battery should not use cases of some other
make if the name of the other make appears on the case. Such names may give a wrong impression
to the customer, which will not be fair either to the service station or to the manufacturer
whose name appears on the case. If the service station sells, another make of battery, the
customer may get the impression that the service station man does not have enough confidence
in the make which he sells, and must use some other make for his rentals. If the rental battery
does not give good service, the customer will get the impression that the manufacturer whose
name appears on the case does not turn out good batteries, when as a matter of fact, the plates,
covers, jars, and other parts used in the rental battery may not have been made by this manufacturer.
Some battery men would, perhaps, consider the failure of a rental battery as an opportunity
to "knock" the manufacturer whose name appears on the case. Such an action may have the desired
effect on a very few customers, but the great majority of men have no use for any one who "knocks"
a competitor's products.

Keeping a Record of Rental Batteries. A careful record should be kept of all rental batteries.
The more carefully such a record is kept, the less confusion there will be in knowing just
where every rental battery is. A special rack for rental batteries, such as those shown in
Figures 88 and 89 should be provided, and all rental batteries which are in the shop should
be kept there, except when they are on charge or are being overhauled. Have them fully charged
and ready to go out immediately, without keeping a customer waiting around, when he is in a
hurry to go somewhere else.

General Rental Policy. No service station should make a practice of installing rental batteries
on any car unless the owner leaves his own battery to be repaired or recharged. The purpose
of having a stock of rental batteries is to enable customers to have the use of their cars
while their own batteries are being repaired by the battery man who furnishes the rental battery
and not to furnish batteries to car owners who may be taking their batteries to some other
station to be repaired. It is, of course, a good thing to be generous and accommodating, but
every battery repairman should think of his own business first, before he helps build up the
business of a competitor.

The customer must have some inducement to bring in your rental battery and get his own. A rental
charge of 25 cents-per day serves as a reminder to most customers. However, some customers
are forgetful and the battery man must telephone or write to any owner who fails to call for
his battery. If, due to failure to keep after the owner, a rental battery is out for several
weeks, there is likely to be an argument when the rental bill is presented to the owner. If
the delay in calling in a rental battery is due to failure to repair the customer's battery,
the rental charge should be reduced.

A rental battery should not be put in place of a battery which is almost ready for the junk
pile. The thing to do is to sell the customer a new battery. Repairs on an almost worn out
battery are expensive and the results may not be satisfactory.

RADIO BATTERIES

The wide-awake battery man will not overlook the new and rapidly growing field which has been
opened for him by the installation of hundreds of thousands of radio-phone receiving sets in
all parts of the country. The so-called radio "craze" has affected every state, and every battery
repairman can increase his income to a considerable extent by selling, charging, and repairing
radio storage batteries.

The remarkable growth of the radio-phone has, of course, been due to the radio broadcasting
stations which have been established in all parts of the country, and from which concerts,
speeches, market reports, baseball reports, news reports, children's stories and religious
services are sent out. These broadcasting stations have sending ranges as high as 1,000 miles.
The fact that a service station is not located near a broadcasting station is therefore no
reason why it should not have its share of the radio battery business, because the broadcasting
stations are scattered all over the United States, and receiving sets may be made powerful
enough to "pick up" the waves from at least one of the broadcasting stations.

Radio receiving sets may be divided into two general classes, the "Crystal" sets and the "Bulb"
sets. "Crystal" sets use crystals of galena (lead sulphide), silicon (a crystalline form of
silicon, one of the chemical elements), or carborundum (carbide of silicon) to "detect" or,
in other words, to rectify the incoming radio waves so that they may be translated into sound
by the telephone receivers. Receiving sets using these crystals do not use a battery, but these
sets are not very sensitive, and cannot "pick up" weak waves. This means that crystal receiving
sets must be used near the broadcasting stations, before the waves have been weakened by traveling
any considerable distance.

As a general rule, the radio-listener's first receiving set uses a crystal detector. Very often
it is difficult to obtain good results with such a set, and a more elaborate set is obtained.
Moreover, even if a crystal set does give good results, the owner of such a set soon hears
of friends who are able to hear concerts sent out from distance stations. This gives him the
desire to be able to hear such stations also and he then buys a receiving set which uses the
"audion-bulb" for detecting, or rectifying the incoming waves.

The audion-bulb resembles an ordinary incandescent lamp. It contains three elements:

1. In the center of the bulb is a short tungsten filament, the ends of which are brought out
to two terminals in the base of the bulb. This filament must be heated to incandescence, and
a storage battery is required for this purpose, because it is necessary to have a very steady
current in order to obtain clear sounds in the receiver. Lately plans have been suggested for
using a direct current lighting line, and even an alternating current lighting line for heating
the filament, but at present such plans have not been perfected, and the battery will undoubtedly
continue to be used with the majority of sets.

2. Surrounding the filament but not touching it is a helix of wire, only one end of which is
brought out to a terminal in the base of the bulb. This helix is called the "grid." In some
bulbs the grid is not made in the form of a helix, but is made of two flat gridlike structures,
one on each side of the filament.

3. Surrounding the "grid" is the "plate" which is sometimes in the shape of a hollow metallic
cylinder. Some plates are not round, but may be oval, or they may be two flat plates joined
together at some point, and one placed on either side of the grid. The plate has one terminal
in the base of the bulb.

  [Fig. 159 Illustrating the principle of the Audion Bulb]

The action of an audion-bulb is quite complex, but a simpler explanation, though one which
may not be exactly correct from a purely technical point of view, is as follows, referring
to Figure 159:

The "A" battery heats the filament, causing a stream of electrically charged particles to flow
out from the filament in all directions. These electrons act as a conductor, and close the
circuit which consists of the plate, the "B" battery, and the telephone receivers, one end
of this circuit being connected to one side of the filament circuit. Current then flows from
the positive terminal of the "B" battery to the plate, then to the filament by means of the
stream of electrons emitted by the filament, along one side of the filament, through the wire
connected to the positive terminal of the "A" battery to the telephone receivers, through the
receivers to the negative terminal of the "B" battery.

As long as the filament remains lighted a steady current flows through the above circuit. The
"grid" is connected to the aerial wire to intercept the radio waves. These waves produce varying
electrical charges on the grid. Since the stream of charged particles emitted by the filament
must pass through the grid to reach the plate, the charges which the radio waves produce on
the grid strengthen or weaken the stream of electrons emitted by the filament, and thus vary
the current flowing in the telephone receiver circuit. The changes in this current cause the
receiver diaphragm to vibrate, the vibrations causing sounds to be heard. Since the variation
in the telephone receiver circuit is caused by electrical charges produced by the radio waves,
and since the radio waves change according to the sounds made at the transmitting station,
the variations in the telephone receiver current produces the same sounds that are sent out
at the transmitting station. In this way concerts, speeches, etc., are reproduced in the receivers.

The modern radio receiving set includes various devices, such as variable condensers, variocouplers,
loose-couplers, variometers, the purpose of which is to "tune" or adjust the receiving set
to be capable of receiving the radio waves. An explanation of such devices is not within the
scope of this book, but there are numerous reasonably priced books and pamphlets on the market
which describes in a simple manner all the component parts of a radio-receiving set.

From the foregoing remarks it is seen that a six-volt storage battery is required with each
receiving set which uses the audionbulb type detector. The filament current of an audion-bulb
averages about one ampere. If additional bulbs are used to obtain louder sounds, each such
bulb also draws one ampere from the storage battery. The standard audion-bulb receiving set
does not use more than three bulbs, and hence the maximum current drawn from the battery does
not exceed three amperes.

The automobile battery manufacturers have built special radio batteries which have thick plates
and thick separators to give longer life. The thick plates are much stronger and more durable
than the thin plates used in starting and lighting work, but do not have the heavy current
capacity that the starting and lighting battery plates have. A high current capacity is, of
course, not necessary for radio work, and hence thick plates are used.

Batteries used for radio work do not operate under the severe conditions which exist on automobiles,
and trouble is much less likely to develop. However, the owner of the radio set rarely has
any means of keeping his battery charged, and his battery gradually discharges and must then
be recharged. It is in the sale of batteries for radio work and in the recharging of them that
the battery man can "cash-in" on the radio phone "craze."

This business rightfully belongs to the automobile battery man and he should go after it as
hard as he can. A little advertising by the service station man, stating that he sells radio
batteries, and also recharges them should bring in: very profitable business. The battery man
who calls for and delivers the radio batteries which need recharging and leaves rental batteries
in their place so that there is no interruption in the reception of the evening concerts is
the one who will get the business.

As already stated, radio storage batteries have thick plates and thick separators. Perforated
rubber sheets are also used in addition to the separators. Large sediment spaces are also generally
provided to allow a considerable amount of sediment to accumulate without causing short-circuits.
The cases are made of wood or hard rubber. Since radio batteries are used in homes and are,
therefore, used with handsomely finished cabinets containing the radio apparatus, the manufacturers
give the cases of some of their radio batteries a pleasing varnished or mahogany finish. Before
returning radio batteries which have been recharged, the entire batteries should be cleaned
and the cases polished. Returning radio batteries in a dirty condition, when they were received
clean, and polished, will drive the radio recharging business to some other service station.

VESTA RADIO BATTERIES

The Vesta Battery Corporation manufacturers three special types of "A" batteries for radio
work, as follows:

1. The 6EA battery, made in capacities of 60, 80, and 100 ampere hours. Fig. 160.

2. The V6EA7 battery, having a capacity of 80 ampere hours. Fig. 161.

3. The R6EA battery, having a capacity of 100 ampere hours. Fig. 162.

  [Fig. 160, 161, 162, 163 Various Vesta Radio batteries]

Vesta Radio Batteries. Fig. 160 shows the 6EA Series, "A" Battery. Fig. 161 shows the V6EA
Series, "A" Battery. Fig. 162 shows the R6EA (Rubber Case) Series, "A" Battery. Fig. 163 shows
the "B" Battery.

