In a small country town one is slow to adopt new ideas, slower still to carry them out, but
the Mayor and curé were both most anxious to do something in the birthplace of the poet, and
that was the general feeling in the Department. After many discussions we finally arrived at
a solution, or at least we decided what we wanted: a special service in the fine old church
of Notre Dame, which stands beautifully on the hill, close to the ruins; a representation of
the Comédie Française, and of course a banquet at the Sauvage, with all the official world,
senators, Préfet, Académiciens--a band of music, a torch-light procession, and as many distinguished
visitors as we could get hold of. Funds of course were a necessary item, but all the countryside
contributed largely, and we knew that the artists would give their services gratis.

We arranged a breakfast at my house in Paris with Mons. Casimir-Périer, late President of the
Republic, who was always ready to lend his influence for anything that interests the people,
and teaches them something of their great men, and Mons. Claretie, Directeur of the Comédie
Française, a most cultivated, charming man. He is generally rather chary of letting his pensionnaires
play en province, but this really was an occasion to break through his rules, and he was quite
ready to help us in every way. We had also M. Sebline, Senator of the Aisne, and l'Abbé Maréchal,
curé of La Ferté-Milon. We had wanted one of the Administrateurs of the Chemin de Fer du Nord
to arrange about a free transport for the actors, but there seemed some trouble about getting
hold of the right man, and Sebline promised to see about that.

The Abbe Maréchal and I were very ambitious for the theatrical part of the entertainment and
had views of Esther with the costumes, and choruses of Moreau, but M. Claretie said that would
be impossible. It was difficult enough to arrange in Paris with all the singers, instruments,
and costumes at hand--and would be impossible in the country with our modest resources. I think
the idea of a tent on a village green rather frightened him; and he didn't quite see the élite
of his company playing in such a cadre--no décor--and probably very bad acoustics. However,
Sebline reassured him. He knew the tent and its capabilities, having seen it figure on various
occasions, comices agricoles, banquets de pompiers, at village fêtes generally, and said it
could be arranged quite well.

We discussed many programmes, but finally accepted whatever M. Claretie would give--an act
of "Les Plaideurs," and two or three of "Bérénice," with Mme. Bartet, who is charming in that
rôle. The Abbé Maréchal undertook the music in his church, and I was sure he would succeed
in having some of the choruses of Esther. His heart was quite set on it. Once he had settled
our programme, the conversation drifted away from the purely local talk, and was brilliant
enough. All the men were clever and good talkers, and all well up in Racine, his career, and
the various phases of his work.

From the classics we got into modern plays and poets, and there of course the differences of
opinion were wide; but I think the general public (people in the upper galleries) like better
when they go to the Française to see a classic piece--Roman emperors and soldiers, and vestal
virgins and barbarians in chains--and to listen to their long tirades. The modern light comedy,
even when it treats of the vital subjects of the day, seems less in its place in those old
walls. I quite understand one couldn't see Britannicus,[11] Mithridate, nor the Cid every evening.

[11] I remember so well our cousin Arthur's description of his holidays spent at his grandmother's
château. Every evening they read aloud some classical piece. When he had read Britannicus twice
(the second time to appreciate more fully the beauties which were lightly passed over at first),
he rebelled, had a migraine, or a sore throat, something which prevented his appearing in the
drawing-room after dinner; and he and his cousins attired themselves in sheets, and stood on
the corner of the wall where the diligence made a sharp turn, frightening the driver and his
horses out of their wits.

We came down here several times to see how things were getting on, and always found the little
town quite feverishly animated. We had succeeded in getting the band of the regiment stationed
at Soissons. I wrote to the Colonel, who said he would send it with pleasure, but that he couldn't
on his own authority. An application must be made to the Ministère de la Guerre. There is always
so much red tape in France. One writes and receives so many letters about anything one wants
to do--a Christmas Tree in the school-house--a distribution of soup for the poor and old--a
turn in a road to be rounded, etc. However, the permission was graciously accorded for the
band. The Mayor's idea was to station it on the Mail, where quantities of people would congregate
who couldn't get into the church or the tent.

We went one day to have tea with the Abbé Maréchal in his nice old presbytère; the salon opening
out on a large, old-fashioned garden with fine trees, and a view of the church towers in the
distance. He was quite pleased with all that he had arranged for his church service. One of
his friends, Abbé Vignon, a most interesting man and eloquent preacher, promised to deliver
a lecture on Racine from the pulpit; and M. Vincent d'Indy, the distinguished composer and
leader of the modern school of music, undertook the music with Mme. Jeanne Maunay as singer;
he himself presiding at the organ.

I tried to persuade the proprietors of all the châteaux in the neighbourhood to come, but I
can't say I had much success. Some had gout--some had mourning. I don't remember if any one
"had married a wife and therefore couldn't come."

However, we shall fill our own house, and give breakfast and dinner to any one who will come.
To-day we have been wandering about on the green near the ruins, trying to find some place
where we can give our friends tea. The service in the church will certainly be long, and before
the theatrical performance begins we should like to arrange a little goûter--but where? It
is too far to go back to our house, and the Sauvage, our usual resort, will be packed on that
day, and quite off its head, as they have two banquets morning and evening. The "Cafe des Ruines,"
a dirty little place just under the great walls of the château, didn't look inviting; but there
was literally nothing else, so we interviewed the proprietor, went in to the big room down
stairs, which was perfectly impossible, reeking with smoke, and smelling of cheap liquor; but
he told us he had a "très belle salle" up stairs, where we should be quite alone. We climbed
up a dark, rickety little turning staircase, and found ourselves in quite a good room, with
three large windows on the green; the walls covered with pictures from the cheap illustrated
papers, and on the whole not too dirty. We have taken it for the afternoon, told the patron
we would come to-morrow, put up tables, and make as many preparations as we could for the great
day. He was very anxious to furnish something--some "vin du pays;" but we told him all we wanted
was fire, plenty of hot water, and a good scrubbing of floor and windows.

It is enchanting this afternoon. We are taking advantage of the fine weather to drive about
the country, and show our friends some of our big farms and quaint little villages. They look
exactly as they did a hundred years ago, "when the Cossacks were here," as they say in the
country. Some of the inns have still kept their old-fashioned signs and names. Near May, on
the road to Meaux, Bossuet's fine old cathedral town, there is a nice old square red-brick
house, "L'Auberge du Veau qui Téte" (The Inn of the Sucking Calf), which certainly indicates
that this is great farming country. There are quantities of big white oxen, cows, and horses
in the fields, but the roads are solitary. One never meets anything except on market day. The
Florians who live in Seine et Marne, which is thickly populated--villages and châteaux close
together--were much struck with the loneliness and great stretches of wood and plain.

We are praying for fine weather, as rain would be disastrous. The main street looks really
charming. The green arch is nearly finished, and at night, when everything is illuminated,
will be most effective.

22nd. It rained yesterday afternoon and all night--not light April showers, but a good, steady
downpour. Francis and Ctesse. de Gontaut arrived from Paris in his little open automobile.
Such a limp, draggled female as emerged from the little carriage I never saw. They had had
some sharp showers; pannes (breakdowns), too, and she says she pushed the carriage up all the
hills. She didn't seem either tired or cross, and looked quite bright and rested when she reappeared
at dinner.

Various friends arrived this morning, and we have been in La Ferté all the afternoon. The draperies
and festoons of flowers don't look any the worse for the heavy rain, and at least it is over,
and we shall probably have sun to-morrow. The tent is up on the green, and looks fairly large.
I don't think any one will see anything except in the first eight or ten rows of chairs, but
it seems they will all hear. The stage was being arranged, and, much to our amusement, they
told us the Empire chairs and tables had been lent by the Abbé Maréchal. He is a collectionneur,
and has some handsome furniture. We inspected our tea-room, which didn't look too bad. Our
men were there with tables, china, etc., and when it is all arranged we shall have quite a
respectable buffet. The landlord was very anxious to decorate the tables with greens, flags,
and perhaps a bust of Racine with a crown of laurels, but we told him it would be better not
to complicate things.

The view was lovely to-day from the top of the hill--the ruins looking enormous, standing out
against the bright blue sky, and soft and pink at the top where the outline was irregular and
the walls crumbling a little. We had some difficulty in collecting our party, and finally discovered
Francis, Ctesse de Gontaut and Christiani having chocolate and cakes in the back parlour of
the grocer's shop (nothing like equality on these occasions), who was telling them all the
little gossip of the town, and naming the radicals who wouldn't go to the church.

We had a pleasant evening with music and "baraque"--which is not very fatiguing as a mental
exercise. I tried to send all the party to bed early, and have come upstairs myself, but I
still hear the click of the billiard balls, and sounds of merriment downstairs. It is a splendid
starlight night, the sky quite blue over the pines. I think we shall have beautiful weather
for our fête. I have very vague ideas as to how many people we shall have for breakfast and
dinner to-morrow, but the "office" is warned. I hope we shan't starve.

April 24th. Monday.

We had a beautiful and most successful day yesterday. All the household was stirring fairly
early, as we had to get ourselves in to La Ferté before 12 o'clock. We started in all sorts
of conveyances--train, carriage, voiturette--and found the Grande Rue full of people. The official
breakfast was over, also the visit to the Mairie, where there are a few souvenirs of the poet--his
picture, acte de naissance,[12] and signature. The procession was just forming to climb up
the steep, little street that leads to the church, so we took a short cut (still steeper),
and waited outside the doors to see them arrive. It was a pretty sight to see the cortège wind
up the path--the Bishop of Soissons and several other ecclesiastics in their robes, blackcoated
officials, some uniforms--the whole escorted by groups of children running alongside, and a
fair sprinkling of women in light dresses, with flowers on their hats, making patches of colour.
The church was crowded--one didn't remark the absence of certain "esprits forts" who gloried
in remaining outside--and the service was most interesting. The lecture or rather "Éloge de
Racine" was beautifully given by the Abbé Vignot. It was not very easy for a priest to pronounce
from the pulpit an eulogium on the poet and dramatic author who had strayed so far from the
paths of grace and the early teachings of Port Royal, where the "petit Racine" had been looked
upon as a model pupil destined to rise high in the ecclesiastical world; but the orator made
us see through the sombre tragedies of Phèdre, Britannicus and others the fine nature of the
poet, who understood so humanly the passions that tempt and warp the soul, and showed a spirit
of tolerance very remarkable in those days. He dwelt less upon the courtier; spoke more of
the Christian of his last days. He certainly lent to the "charm of the poet, the beauty of
his voice," for it was impossible to hear anything more perfect than the intonation and diction
of the speaker.

[12] Birth certificate.

There was a short address from Monseigneur Deramecourt, Bishop of Soissons--a stately figure
seated on the Episcopal throne in the chancel. The music was quite beautiful. We had the famous
"Chanteurs de St. Gervais," and part of the chæurs d'Esther, composed by Moreau, and sung in
splendid style by Mme. Jeanne Maunay, M. Vincent d'Indy accompanying on the organ. The simple
sixteenth century chaunts sung by the St. Gervais choir sounded splendidly in the fine old
cathedral. The tones seemed fuller and richer than in their Paris church.

We went out a little before the end to see what was going on on the green. It was still quite
a climb from the church, and all the people of the upper town had turned out to see the sight.
It is quite a distinct population from the lower town. They are all canal hands, and mostly
a very bad lot. The men generally drink--not enough to be really intoxicated (one rarely sees
that in France), but enough to make them quarrelsome; and the women almost all slatternly and
idle. They were standing at their doors, babies in their arms, and troops of dirty, ragged,
pretty little children playing on the road, and accompanying us to the green, begging for "un
petit sou."

We saw the cortège winding down again, the robes and banners of the clergy making a great effect,
and we heard in the distance the strains of the military band stationed on the Mail--echoes
of the Marseillaise and the "Père la Victoire" making a curious contrast to the old-world music
we had just been listening to in the church. Our party scattered a little. Francis went down
to the station with his auto to get the Duc and Duchesse d'Albufera, who had promised to come
for the Comédie and dinner. They are neighbours, and have a beautiful place not very far off--Montgobert,
in the heart of the Villers-Cotteret forest. He is a descendant of Suchet, one of Napoleon's
Marshals, and they have a fine picture of the Marshal in uniform, and various souvenirs of
the Emperor. Francis had some difficulty in making his way through the Grande Rue which was
packed with people very unwilling to let any vehicle pass. However, they had a certain curiosity
about the little carriage, which is the first one to appear in this part of the country--where
one sees only farmers' gigs on two high wheels, or a tapissière, a covered carriage for one
horse. However, as every one knew him they were good natured enough, and let him pass, but
he could not get any further than the foot of the street--too steep for any carriage to venture.

It was a pretty sight as we got to the Place. Quantities of people walking about--many evident
strangers, seeing the ruins for the first time. There was a band of schoolboys, about twenty,
with a priest, much excited. They wanted to go in the tent and get good places, but were afraid
of missing something outside, and were making little excursions in every direction, evidently
rather worrying their Director. The tent, fairly large, looked small under the shadow of the
great walls. We looked in and found a good many people already in their places, and saw that
the first two or three rows of red arm-chairs were being kept for the quality. One of the sights
was our two tall men standing at the door of the rather dirty, dilapidated "Cafe des Ruines,"
piloting our friends past the groups of workmen smoking and drinking in the porch, and up the
dark, rickety staircase. I don't think any one would have had the courage to go up, if Henrietta
hadn't led the way--once up, the effect of our banqueting-hall was not bad. The servants had
made it look very well with china and silver brought from the house, also three or four fresh
pictures taken from the illustrated papers to cover those which already existed, and which
looked rather the worse for smoke and damp. We were actually obliged to cover General Boulanger
and his famous black charger with a "Bois de Boulogne le Matin," with carriages, riders, bicycles,
pretty women and children strolling about.

The view from the windows was charming, and it was amusing to watch all the people toiling
up the path. We recognised many friends, and made frantic signs to them to come and have tea.
We had about three-quarters of an hour before the Comédie began, and when we got to the tent
it was crowded--all the dignitaries--Bishop, Préfet, Senator, Deputy (he didn't object to the
theatrical performance), M. Henri Houssaye, Académician; M. Roujon, Directeur des Beaux Arts,
sitting in the front row in their red arm-chairs, and making quite as much of a show for the
villagers as the actors.

The performance began with the third act of "Les Plaideurs," played with extraordinary entrain.
There were roars of laughter all through the salle, or tent--none more amused than the band
of schoolboys, and their youthful enjoyment was quite contagious. People turned to look at
them, and it was evident that, if they didn't see, they heard, as they never missed a point--probably
knew it all by heart. Then came a recitation by Mlle. Moreno, who looked and spoke like a tragic
muse the remorse and suffering of Phèdre. The end of the performance--the two last acts of
Bérénice--was enchanting. Mme. Bartet looked charming in her floating blue draperies, and was
the incarnation of the resigned, poetic, loving woman; Paul Mounet was a grand, sombre, passionate
Titus, torn between his love for the beautiful Queen and his duty as a Roman to choose only
one of his own people to share his throne and honours. The Roman Senate was an all-powerful
body, and a woman's love too slight a thing to oppose to it. Bartet was charming all through,
either in her long plaintes to her Confidante, where one felt that in spite of her repeated
assurances of her lover's tenderness there was always the doubt of the Emperor's faith or in
her interviews with Titus--reproaching him and adoring him, with all the magic of her voice
and smile. It was a triumph for them both, and their splendid talent. With no décor, no room,
no scenic illusions of any kind, they held their audience enthralled. No one minded the heat,
nor the crowd, nor the uncomfortable seats, and all were sorry when the well-known lines, said
by Mme. Bartet, in her beautiful, clear, pathetic voice

   "Servons tous trois d'exemple à l'Univers
    De l'amour la plus tendre et la plus malheureuse
    Dont il puisse garder l'histoire douloureuse,"

brought to a close the fierce struggle between love and ambition.

As soon as it was over, I went with Sebline to compliment the actors. We found Bartet, not
in her dressing-room, but standing outside, still in her costume, very busy photographing Mounet,
superb as a Roman Emperor. He was posing most impatiently, watching the sun slowly sinking
behind the ruins, as he wanted to photograph Bérénice before the light failed, and the time
was short. They were surrounded by an admiring crowd, the children much interested in the "beautiful
lady with the stars all over her dress." We waited a few moments, and had a little talk with
them. They said the fête had interested them very much and they were very glad to have come.
They were rather taken aback at first when they saw the tent, the low small stage, and the
very elementary scenery--were afraid the want of space would bother them, but they soon felt
that they held their audience, and that their voices carried perfectly. They were rather hurried,
as they were all taking the train back to Paris, except Bartet, who had promised to stay for
the banquet. I had half hoped she would come to me, but of course I was obliged to waive my
claim. When I saw how much the Préfet and the official world held to having her--when I heard
afterwards that she had had the seat of honour next to the Bishop I was very glad I hadn't
insisted, as she certainly doesn't often have the opportunity of sitting next to a Bishop.
It seems he was delighted with her.

We loitered about some little time, talking to all our friends. The view from the terrace was
beautiful--directly at our feet the little town, which is literally two streets forming a long
cross, the Grande Rue a streak of light and color, filled with people moving about, and the
air alive with laughter and music. Just beyond, the long stretches of green pasture lands,
cut every now and then by narrow lanes with apple trees and hawthorn in flower, and the canal
winding along between the green walls of poplars--the whole hemmed in by the dark blue line
of the Villers-Cotteret forest, which makes a grand sweep on the horizon.

It was lovely driving back to Mareuil, toward the bright sunset clouds. We had a gay dinner
and evening. I never dared ask where the various men dressed who came to dinner. The house
is not very large, and every room was occupied--but as they all appeared most correctly attired,
I suppose there are resources in the way of lingerie and fumoir which are available at such
times, and Francis's valet de chambre is so accustomed to having more people than the house
can hold that he probably took his precautions. Francis started off for the banquet at the
Sauvage in his voiturette, but that long-suffering vehicle having made hundreds of kilomètres
these last days, came to grief at the foot of "la Montagne de Marolles," and he was towed back
by a friendly carter and arrived much disgusted when we were half through dinner.

We heard all the details of the dinner from the Abbé Maréchal. Certainly the banqueting hall
of the Sauvage will not soon again see such a brilliant assembly. Madame Bartet was the Queen
of the Fête, and sat between the Bishop and the Préfet. There were some pretty speeches from
M. Henri Houssaye, M. Roujon--and of course the toast of the President accompanied by the Marseillaise.

The departure to the train was most amusing--all the swells, including Bartet, walking in the
cortége, escorted by a torch-light procession, and surrounded by the entire population of La Ferté.

The Grande Rue was illuminated from one end to the other, red Bengal lights throwing out splendidly
the grand old château and the towers of Notre Dame.

VIII

A CORNER OF NORMANDY

BAGNOLES DE L'ORNE, July-August.

It is lovely looking out of my window this morning, so green and cool and quiet. I had my petit
déjeuner on my balcony, a big tree in the garden making perfect shade and a wealth of green
wood and meadow in every direction, so resting to the eyes after the Paris asphalt. It seems
a very quiet little place. Scarcely anything passing--a big omnibus going, I suppose, to the
baths, and a butcher's cart. For the last ten minutes I have been watching a nice-looking sunburned
girl with a big straw hat tied down over her ears, who is vainly endeavouring to get her small
donkey-cart, piled high with fruit and vegetables, up a slight incline to the gate of a villa
just opposite. She has been struggling for some time, pulling, talking, and red with the exertion.
One or two workmen have come to her assistance, but they can't do anything either. The donkey's
mind is made up. There is an animated conversation--I am too high up to hear what they say.
Finally she leaves her cart, ties up her fruit in her apron, balances a basket of eggs with
one hand on her head, and disappears into the garden behind the gate. No one comes along and
the cart is quite unmolested. I think I should have gone down myself if I had seen anyone making
off with any of the fruit. It is a delightful change from the hot stuffy August Paris I left
yesterday. My street is absolutely deserted, every house closed except mine, the sun shining
down hard on the white pavement, and perfect stillness all day. The evenings from seven till
ten are indescribable--a horror of musical concierges with accordions, a favorite French instrument.
They all sit outside their doors with their families and friends, playing and singing all the
popular songs, and at intervals all joining in a loud chorus of "Viens Poupoule." Grooms are
teaching lady friends to ride bicycles, a lot of barking, yapping fox-terriers running alongside.
There is a lively cross-conversation going on from one side of the street to the other, my
own concierge and chauffeur contributing largely. Of course my balcony is untenable, and I
am obliged to sit inside, until happily sleep descends upon them. They all vanish, and the
street relapses into perfect silence. I am delighted to find myself in this quiet little Norman
bathing-place, just getting known to the French and foreign public.

It is hardly a village; the collection of villas, small houses, shops, and two enormous hotels
surrounding the établissement seems to have sprung up quite suddenly and casually in the midst
of the green fields and woods, shut in on all sides almost by the Forest of Ardennes, which
makes a beautiful curtain of verdure. There are villas dotted about everywhere, of every possible
style; Norman chalets, white and gray, with the black crossbeams that one is so familiar with
all over this part of the country; English cottages with verandas and bow-windows; three or
four rather pretentious looking buildings with high perrons and one or two terraces; gardens
with no very pretty flowers, principally red geraniums, some standing back in a nice little
green wood, some directly on the road with benches along the fence so that the inhabitants
can see the passers-by (and get all the dust of the roads). But there isn't much passing even
in these days of automobiles. There are two trains from Paris, arriving at two in the afternoon
and at eleven at night. The run down from Paris, especially after Dreux, is charming, almost
like driving through a park. The meadows are beautifully green and the trees very fine--the
whole country very like England in appearance, recalling it all the time, particularly when
we saw pretty gray old farmhouses in the distance--and every now and then a fine Norman steeple.

