"Soon after we came to Newark, a detachment from the De Watteville regiment was ordered to
make an attack on Fort Erie. In this detachment was a corporal, a great friend to us, who once
saved my boy from drowning. At the moment he was ordered off, he had a child seemingly at the
last gasp. The poor man was distracted like, and my husband, who had that tender heart that
he could never bide to look on misery, offered to go as his substitute, and he went. You've
doubtless heard of the sortie of Erie: that dreadful night my husband was taken prisoner. He
got a letter written to me from Buffalo, to tell me all his ill-fortune. He had been mistaken
by some American soldiers for a deserter from the American army; and not being with his own
regiment when he was taken, or even among his acquaintance, he could not prove who he was.
He had been ironed, and was to be taken to Greenbush, near Albany.

"He entreated me to procure from his captain, the necessary papers to prove that he was a true
man, and to forward them to him. Our captain was a great friend to us; he gave me the writings,
and I determined myself to go to Greenbush. I met with some troubles, and much kindness by
the way. The people in your States, ma'am, are the freest and the kindest I have ever seen.
They seemed to me like God's stewards, always ready to open their storehouses to the naked
and hungry. I had money enough to pay for my boy's riding the most of the way; for myself I
seldom felt weary, but pressed on beyond my strength; still I did not feel it till I got to
Greenbush, and was told my husband had escaped from confinement the week before. Whither he
had gone, no one knew, but all told me that if he was not retaken, he had probably reached Canada.

"I would have come straight home again, but my strength was utterly gone. I have not much recollection
from this time: I remember having a fear that they would take my boy from me, but all seems
as a dream, till I came to myself two months after in the alms-house in Albany. From that time
I remained in a low wretched state, for four months, when this poor baby was born into this
world of trouble."

Here the poor woman gave way to a burst of tears, which seemed to be a relief to her full heart;
for afterwards, she proceeded with more composure. "Many months passed before I was able to
do any thing for myself. It pleased God to hear my prayer for patience; and though I was often
without any hope that times would ever mend with me, I was kept from fretting. You are very
kind to feel for me, but I will not tire you with all my ups and downs for the last three years.
I have sent many letters into Canada, but have never received any return. My heart sometimes
misgives me, and I think my husband has gone to Europe--or maybe is dead."

"But, why," asked Mrs. Sackville, "have you remained so long in the States?"

"O, ma'am, I was afraid to undertake the journey with my poor baby, who has always been but
delicate, and I was determined not to leave Albany, where I had made many kind friends, till
I had earned something to help us on our journey. I know how to turn my hands to almost any
kind of work; and the last year has prospered so well with me, that when I left Albany I had
forty dollars. At Buffalo my poor baby was taken down; and I have been obliged to spend ten
dollars; with the rest I hope to get to Quebec; and if worst comes to worst, I may there find
friends to send me to Europe."

The poor woman's story was not one of unparalleled misfortunes, but it was unusually interesting
to her hearers--there was so much resolution and mildness blended in her countenance, such
perfect cleanliness in her coarse apparel, and such an evident solicitude to avoid any exaggeration,
or even display of her troubles, that could be an appeal to the charity of her auditors, that
when she concluded, they felt convinced of her merit, and deeply interested in her welfare.
They were now arrived at the inn, where they were to await the children, who arrived in the
course of an hour, heated and dusty--but declaring they had never a more delightful walk.

"Lord bless you, Miss," exclaimed Mrs. Barton, "you've heated yourself to that degree, that
the blood seems ready to burst from your cheeks. I shall never forgive myself if you get sick
by it."

"Oh never fear," replied Julia, "I did not feel the heat at all."

"But there is such a thick sickly feeling in the air to-day."

"Sickly feeling," exclaimed Edward, "I am sure I thought the air was never fresher and sweeter."

"You can now understand," said Mrs. Sackville, speaking in a low voice to her children, "the
charm of the ring in the Fairy tale, bestowed by the benevolent Genius; which whenever worn,
produced a clear sky, a smooth path and fragrant air. There is a happiness, my dear children,
in the simplest act of genuine kindness, which is much more than a compensation for the loss
of any gratification of taste. The relief of this poor woman, and the sweet sleep into which
her child has been lulled by the motion of the carriage, have quite reconciled me to the delay
of the sight of the Falls; for which I confess I began to feel a little but here comes your
uncle, full of concern about something."

Mr. Morris entered the room in great perturbation. "Here is a pretty spot of work," said he.
"I believe in my soul, Mrs. Barton, that that scamp Tristy has gone off with your bundle."

"Gone off with it!--God forbid!" exclaimed the poor woman,--"my money was all in it."

"Oh uncle," said Edward, "he has not gone off with it;--he laid himself down under a tree in
the wood just back, and said he would follow on as soon as he had rested him."

"Rested him! a mere pretence to get rid of you--you should have had more discretion than to
have trusted him, Ned;--but when was ever discretion found in a boy?"

"But what reason, brother, have you to think he has gone off?" asked Mrs. Sackville.

Mr. Morris said there had a man just come over the road, of whom he had inquired if he had
seen him:--he had not, but he was certain he should have observed him if he had been by the
road side. Mr. Morris had despatched a servant on horseback in pursuit of him, and he begged
Mrs. Barton to calm herself till his return.

The poor woman's agitation could not be allayed as easily as it had been excited:--she said
nothing; but she became as pale as death, and trembled so excessively, that Mrs. Sackville
took her child from her arms and laid it on a bed.

Mr. Morris's compassion once excited, was never stinted. "Bless you, woman," he whispered to
Mrs. Barton, "don't tremble so. If the little imp has really made off, your loss shall be made
up to you. Come, cheer up--I have engaged a place for you and your children in a return carriage,
and you will all be in Newark to-night, safe and snug."

"God bless you, sir," replied Mrs. Barton. "I am ashamed of myself; but my courage and strength
seem quite spent."

At this instant, Edward, who had gone out on the first notice of the boy's delinquency, returned,
shouting, "He's coming, he's coming;" and directly the messenger made his appearance with the
wallet unharmed, and followed by Tristram, who came doggedly on muttering, "that it was a poor
reward for lugging the old woman's bundle to be hunted for a thief."

"Stop your clamor, Tristy," said Mr. Morris, "the devil shall have his due; there is a shilling
for you, which is full as much as your character is worth."

"I don't know as to that," replied the boy, pocketing the shilling: "those that have much character
can do as they please, but I have so little, that I set a high price on it."

The carriage was now ready in which Mrs. Barton was to proceed, and her friends saw her depart
cheered and comforted by their kindness, and themselves enriched by the opportunity they had
improved of imitating our heavenly Benefactor by 'raising the sinking heart, and strengthening
the knees that were ready to fail.'

After our travellers were again on their way, Mr. Morris said he did not at all like Tristram's
look, when he said Goody Barton would remember him the next time she felt the weight of her
wallet. "The little rascal said too, that he had changed his mind, and was going back to the
States--putting that and that together, I am afraid his evil fingers have been inside the poor
woman's bundle."

Julia was sure he could not be so wicked--she had herself observed the bundle, and that it
was very nicely sewed.

Mrs. Sackville hoped and believed that there was no harm done to the poor woman's property;
and the concern of the party for their protegée, gradually gave place to their admiration of
the beauties of their ride, and the animated expectation of seeing the Falls.

Edward declared that his ears already began to tingle,--and after they passed Chippewa, Julia
resolutely shut her eyes, for fear of having the first impression weakened by the imperfect
glimpses that could be caught of the cataract from the road.

                  *       *       *       *       *

We hope our young readers do not think us so presumptuous as to attempt to give them a description
of the Falls of Niagara; one of the sublimest spectacles with which this fair earth is embellished.
Neither can we attempt to define the emotions of our travellers. We find in Edward's and Julia's
journals, noted with an accuracy and taste that does them great credit, all the constituent
parts of this great whole--a poet or a painter might perhaps weave them into a beautiful picture.

The vehement dashing of the rapids--the sublime falls--the various hues of the mass of waters--the
snowy whiteness, and the deep bright green--the billowy spray that veils in deep obscurity
the depths below--the verdant island that interposes between the two falls, half veiled in
a misty mantle, and placed there, it would seem, that the eye and the spirit may repose on
it--the little island on the brink of the American fall, that looks amidst the commotion of
the waters like the sylvan vessel of a woodland nymph gaily sailing onward; or as if the wish
of the Persian girl were realized, and the 'little isle had wings;'--a thing of life and motion
that the spirit of the waters had inspired.

The profound caverns with their overarching rocks--the quiet habitations along the margin of
the river--peaceful amid all the uproar, as if the voice of the Creator had been heard, saying
"It is I, be not afraid."--The green hill, with its graceful projections, that skirts and overlooks
Table-rock--the deep and bright verdure of the foliage--every spear of grass that penetrates
the crevices of the rocks, gemmed by the humid atmosphere, and sparkling in the sun-beams--the
rainbow that rests on the mighty torrent--a symbol of the smile of God upon his wondrous work.

"What is it, mother?" asked Edward, as he stood with his friends on Table-rock, where they
had remained gazing on the magnificent scene for fifteen minutes without uttering a syllable,
"what is it, mother, that makes us all so silent?"

"It is the spirit of God moving on the face of the waters--it is this new revelation to our
senses of his power and majesty which ushers us, as it were, into his visible presence, and
exalts our affections above language.

"What, my dear children, should we be, without the religious sentiment that is to us as a second
sight, by which we see in all this beauty the hand of the Creator; by which we are permitted
to join in this hymn of nature; by which, I may say, we are permitted to enter into the joy
of our Lord? Without it we should be like those sheep, who are at this moment grazing on the
verge of this sublime precipice, alike unconscious of all these wonders, and of their divine
Original. This religious sentiment is in truth, Edward, that promethean fire that kindles nature
with a living spirit, infuses life and expression into inert matter, and invests the mortal
with immortality." Mrs. Sackville's eye was upraised, and her countenance illumined with a
glow of devotion that harmonized with the scene. "It is, my dear children," she continued,
"this religious sentiment, enlightened and directed by reason, that allies you to external
nature, that should govern your affections, direct your pursuits, exalt and purify your pleasures,
and make you feel, by its celestial influence, that the kingdom is within you; but," she added
smiling, after a momentary pause, "this temple does not need a preacher."

"Perhaps not," said Mr. Sackville; "but the language of nature sometimes needs an interpreter
to such young observers as Ned and Julia."

"That it does, papa," exclaimed Edward, whose exalted feeling was gradually subsiding to its
natural level; "and there are people, too, older than Julia and I, that I think need an interpreter.
That Yorkshireman, for instance, who lives in the stone house just at the turn of the road
as we came down from Forsyth's, said to me, 'Well, young master, this is a mighty fine sight
to come and see, but you would be sick enough of it if you lived here. It seems, when I am
lying on my bed at night, like an everlasting thunder-storm, such a roaring from the Falls
and dropping from the trees: and in winter my poor beasts are covered with icicles. I wish
some of the quality that cry the place up, and come half the world over to see it, would change
births with my wife and me,' and so he went on railing till I ran away from him to overtake you."

"Poor fellow!" said Mr. Sackville; "the sentiment, 'Il n'y a rien de beau que l'utile,'[3]
is quite excusable in a laborer. I think, Ned, I feel more disposed to pity than to blame your
Yorkshireman."

  [3] There is nothing but the useful which is beautiful.

"Well, papa, what do you think of that party of city shop-keepers who dined at the inn with
us to-day? I heard one of the ladies say, 'I have been so disappointed in my journey.' I dropped
my knife and fork, and exclaimed, 'Disappointed, madam! does not the fall look as high as you
expected?' 'Oh, child,' she replied, laughing, 'I was not speaking of the fall; but I find
it is quite too early in the season to travel in the country. I have not seen a roast pig or
a broiled chicken since I left the city.' What do you think of that, papa?"

"Why I think, my dear, she is a vulgar woman, who travels because others do; and is naturally
disappointed in not meeting with the only circumstances that could give her pleasure."

"There's Mrs. Hilton, papa, who, I am sure, is not vulgar--at least she is as rich as Cr[oe]sus--and
I heard her say to a gentleman, that if she could have remained at the Springs, and then could
have gone home and said she had been to the Falls, she should have been glad; for she was sure
no one came here but for the name of it."

"Mrs. Hilton is of the class of the vulgar rich, among whom vulgarity is quite as obvious,
and much more disgusting, than with the vulgar poor. But come, dear Ned; the faults and follies
of others is a theme scarcely worthy of this place; and just at the moment that you are enjoying
this festival of nature, you must take care you do not commit the pharisaic fault, and thank
God that you are not as these people, without reflecting that Providence has arranged the circumstances
which have made the difference."

"But, papa," said Julia, "it would not be wrong, would it, for Edward to feel that there is
a difference?"

"Perhaps not, provided the feeling is properly tempered with humility and gratitude; but it
is far safer to be in the habit of comparing yourselves with your superiors, than your inferiors."

"It may be safer, papa," said Julia, "but"--

"But what, my love?"

"It is not half so natural."

"Nor so pleasant," interposed Edward.

"Well, my children, I hope you will make it habitual, and then it will be natural. For the
present I am satisfied that you speak frankly your opinions and feelings, without disguise
or affectation."

Thus these vigilant parents extracted some moral good from every object and every scene; and
at that early age, when most children are thoughtless of the future, theirs were constantly
directed to virtue, which they were taught is immortal in its nature, is man's support and
solace through all the vicissitudes of life, and his crown of glory when the 'terrestrial puts
on the celestial.'

Our travellers remained at the Falls for a week, that they might become familiar with them,
see them by the rising and the setting sun; by daylight, and moonlight, and starlight, in all
the radiance of the clear, full day, and in mists and storm; and then, after offering a Te
Deum from the temple of their hearts, they left them with beautiful and imperishable pictures
traced on their memories.

In following the windings of the Niagara to Newark, they passed the celebrated heights of Queenstown,
'where ceas'd the swift their race, where fell the strong;' but even then, though then so recent,
there were no traces of the disastrous battle fought there. The children, whose home was in
a hill-country, and who valued a mountain as much as a New-Englander does a 'water privilege,'
rambled over the heights, and gazed delighted on the green Niagara, which, escaped from its
rocky prison, rejoices in its freedom, sweeps freely and gracefully around the bluff promontories
that indent its course, flows past the headland, where Fort Niagara guards the American shore,
and enters Lake Ontario, which stretches, sparkling in the distance,

                            "To where the sky
        Stoops, and shuts in th' exploring eye."

Edward had, in common with most spirited boys, a natural taste for military exploits. "I think,"
he said to his mother, "that a coward might play the hero on these heights, or at Lundie's-lane.
Only think, mother, of fighting within the sound of the roaring of the Falls: would it not
give you grand feelings?"

"I think, Edward, if I could hear the Falls at such a moment, they would seem to me to speak
in a voice of rebuke, rather than encouragement."

"O, mother, you never seem to admire courage; but I suppose it is because you are a woman."

"No, my dear: women have been accused of having rather an undue admiration for what you mean
by courage--fighting courage; but I confess that war seems to me a violation of the law of
God, and it appears a profanation of such beautiful scenes as these, to convert them into fields
of battle."

When they reached Newark, the party walked up to Fort George; a slight embankment, surrounded
by a palisade, is still dignified by that name. "This palisade as they call it, Ned," said
Mr. Morris, "we should scarcely think a sufficient defence against the batteries of pigs and
chickens."

"It has served, though, to keep the yankees at bay," said a soldier, gruffly, who was cutting
up Canada thistles, and who had suspended his labour for a moment, to regard the strangers.

"A fair hit, friend," said Mr. Morris; "but all our fighting is over now, and forgotten I hope.
This work you are doing here, cutting off these thistles, is far better than cutting off heads."

"It is far aisier, sir," replied the man, with a slight curling of the lip, which betrayed
a professional contempt for Mr. Morris's preference of the plough-share over the sword; then
turning towards the gate he called to a little boy who was just entering it--"Come, come Dick,
what do you gaze at, boy? bring me the basket."

The boy, without heeding the command, dropped the basket; and uttering a cry between joy and
surprise, scampered off in the direction of a cottage, or rather hovel, which stood just without
the palisade.

"That is Richard Barton!--that is certainly Richard Barton!" exclaimed the children in one breath.

"Surely is it Richard Barton," said the soldier.

"Is his mother, here? Has he found his father?" asked Edward impatiently; while all the party
drew nearer the soldier, anxious to learn the fate of their humble friend.

"Ay, his mother is in by there, poor cratur; but his father has been gone since the summer
after the war, when the 40th was sent from Canada--where, God knows--there's none but he that
made them can keep track of a British regiment: one year they are here with the setting sun,
and then off to where he rises--shifting and changing like the waves of the sea, beating from
one world to another; and I should know it by rason that I myself was fighting, and baiting
gentaly under Wellington on the sunny side of the Pyrennees in one month, and the next comes
an order and whips us off for Canada in the twinkling of an eye, among the indians and the
yankees, who know nothing about fighting," he concluded, glancing his eye at Mr. Morris, "according
to the civil rules of war."

"Poor, Mrs. Barton!" said Mrs. Sackville. "I am grieved at her disappointment, though I expected
it."

"Oh, do let us go in and see her," said Julia.

"We will wait a moment, my dear," replied her mother; "her little boy must have told her that
we were here, and I think she will come out to us."

"She'll not be right free to come before you," said the soldier, "if, as I now partly suspect,
you are the gentlemen and ladies that were so hospitable like to her." The man now doffed his
cap, and stood with it in his hand, with an expression of respect in his manner far different
from the hostile air he had at first assumed.

"But, why not, my friend, come before us?" asked Mrs. Sackville. "I trust she has nothing to
be ashamed of."

"Ashamed! no, thank God--it would be hard indeed if she had to bear the burthen of shame with
her other misfortunes; but though a soldier's wife, she has an English spirit, and a proud
one; and she says, while she has her health and her hands, she will never be seen asking charity;
and that destitute is her condition, that as she said to-day, to make her case known to christian
people, is asking charity of them."

"Do, mother, let us go now and see her," again interposed Julia.

"Stop, a moment, my love," replied Mrs. Sackville; and then turning again to the soldier--"You
say she is utterly destitute; but when she left us, she said she had a considerable sum of money."

"And she spake the truth, ma'am--or, what is the same, she thought she did; but a little limb
of the old one, saving your presence, my lady, had fingered all the poor cratur had been earning
in three years, in as many minutes, and was off to the States with it."

"Ah," exclaimed Mr. Morris, who had been intently listening--"the son of Belial--I told you
so--I knew the rascal had it."

"So dame Barton said one of the gentlemen told her; but the bundle was all tight and snug,
for the little devil had sewed it up again, and she did not examine it till she come to look
for the money to pay the captain of a schooner, who had agreed to take her down the lakes:
and just think, my lady, at that moment what an overcast it was."

"That mischief was done," said Edward, as soon as he had an opportunity of speaking, "when
you and I, Julia, left that little wretch Tristy in the wood. I shall always think we were
to blame for leaving him."

"Does the poor woman," asked Mrs. Sackville, "still think of returning to Quebec?"

"To Quebec! ah, madam, and to the world's end, but she'll find her husband if he is above ground.
She is that resolute, that neither wind nor tide can turn her. If she was left on a naked island
in mid ocean, she would contrive to get off from it."

"Come, children," said Mrs. Sackville, "we will just leave your father and uncle to finish
their survey here, while we look in upon our poor friend."

"Well, go on mother," said Edward, "I will overtake you; first I must run up to the flag-staff
and get at least a clover stalk for a memorial of the gallant Brock who is buried there."

"And I will overtake you too, mother," said Julia, falling back with Edward.

The soldier's eye followed the children: "God bless them--God bless them!" said he, "that is
better than a monument."

"What is better than a monument, friend?" asked Mrs. Sackville, riveted to the spot, as most
mothers would be, by an honest commendation of her children.

"The memory of an innocent heart--and a tear from eyes that never cried for sin, my lady--we
soldiers die, and are turned into the turf--but we are honored in our officers."

"Farewell, my friend; I wish you well," said Mrs. Sackville, dropping a piece of money into
the soldier's hand, and then turned from him while he was still uttering his hearty, "God bless
you, my lady."

Julia hailed Edward as he was bounding off towards the flag-staff, and begged him to stop for
her, as she had something private to say to him. He laughed at her passion for secrets, said
he could not possibly be detained, and at last good naturedly stopped to listen. "Ned," she
said, "I tell you what I was thinking of--as it was our fault, you know, that poor Mrs. Barton
lost her money--and she is so anxious to get to Quebec--and that little Dick is such a good
good natured little fellow--I was thinking, Ned--"

"For mercy's sake think a little faster, Julia."

"Well, I was thinking, if we could contrive some way to have her go down in the boat with us."

"Contrive! it could not take us long to contrive I think: we can only ask papa, you know, and
all the contrivance in the world will do her no good, if he does not think it best."

"But, then, Ned, there is one thing I would like to propose to father and mother, if you are
willing to join me."

"Don't be so round-about, Julia, as if I was the great Mogul. Speak out."

"Well then, to speak plain--you know Edward, you and I have each of us five dollars that papa
gave us to buy Canada curiosities with; now I think if we were to club, we might have enough
to get Mrs. Barton to Quebec, if the captains of the boats are good-natured men, and reasonable
in their charges, and if papa approves the scheme--and if"----

"If--if--if," said Edward, "we shall never move the woman with all these ifs to clog the way;
one if is sure, that if we spend our money this way, we might have saved ourselves all the
trouble of planning so many times over how we should lay it out."

Edward continued for a few moments silent and moody, while Julia urged her cause zealously.
The person, young or old, to whom a charity is suggested, is not often as eager for it as the
original projector. Edward, however, after having walked up to the flag-staff, plucked a clover-stalk,
and retraced a part of the way to the little wicket by which they entered, said, with the air
of a sage, "I did not think it best, Julia, to say yes, without some consideration; but on
the whole I like the plan, and if father and mother consent, I shall be very glad." Once agreed,
they were impatient for the execution of their scheme, and they hurried forward to the cottage,
at the door of which they were met by both the children. The little girl now quite recovered,
clung to Julia, while Richard plucked Edward by the sleeve, and expressed his joy awkwardly,
but naturally enough, by laughing in his face.

"Ah, they are indeed right glad to see ye," said Mrs. Barton, "as I'm sure I am, as I have
reason; but they, poor things--their hearts would not jump so at sight of their father's face,
as indeed how should they, seeing they can have no recollection of him."

The children replied to all these kind expressions from mother and children, and then drawing
Mrs. Sackville to the door, they suggested their plan. She kissed them both, and bade them
await her in the cottage, while she went to consult their father and uncle, whom she saw approaching.

As soon as she had communicated the children's wishes, Mr. Morris laughed at them. "Why," said
he, "the poor foolish woman is on a wild-goose chase, and the sooner she is stopped the better--travelling
over the world after a husband, who I have no doubt she is vastly better without than with."

"But she is the best judge of that, brother."

"Lord bless you, no--a wife is no judge at all about her husband. She is evidently an ingenious
worthy woman, and can get a good living if she is not footing it over the world after this
soldier--a good riddance--a good riddance, Mrs. Sackville. I am surprised you do not see it
is a good riddance."

Mrs. Sackville, who did not esteem matrimonial ties so lightly as her bachelor brother, appealed
to her husband, but he joined Mr. Morris in thinking Mrs. Barton had much better remain where
she was; not because he was sure the father and husband, though a soldier, might not be worth
looking up, but because there was not the slightest chance of finding him. "What good will
it do the woman to get to Quebec?" he asked; "her husband's regiment has left Canada."

"She tells me," replied Mrs. Sackville, "that she has many friends in Quebec from whom she
might expect assistance. She has worked for the governor's lady, and she builds much on her
benevolence, and thinks she will get her a free passage to her husband in a government ship;
and besides," added Mrs. Sackville, "even if her hopes fail utterly, we shall confer an essential
benefit on our children by complying with their wishes; for if they give this poor woman all
their little store of wealth, it will cost them the sacrifice of sundry personal gratifications
that they have reckoned much on, and thus give them a practical lesson of self-denial and disinterestedness,
better than all our precepts, and it will associate with the more selfish and transient pleasures
of their journey, the pure and enduring sentiment of benevolence."

"Well, my dear wife," said Mr. Sackville, "do as you please--you have arrayed before me irresistible
motives."

Thus sanctioned, Mrs. Sackville returned to the cottage, whispered to the children their father's
acquiescence, and then saying aloud, "I leave you to make all the arrangements with Mrs. Barton,"
she left them.

We shall not attempt to describe the poor woman's gratitude, which overflowed in words and
tears, nor the children's noisy joy when they heard they were to go down the lake with their
friends. Suffice it to say, that in the course of two hours, and just as the steam-boat appeared
in sight, heavily plying down from Lewistown, Mrs. Barton was on the wharf with her children,
as clean and nice as soap and water and fresh and well-patched clothes could make them, and
looking so grateful and joyful, that Mr. Morris, who, like the good vicar of Wakefield, 'loved
happy human faces,' forgot all his objections to the procedure, and shaking the good woman's
hand heartily, said, he "was glad they were to be fellow-passengers."

