THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS

By Charlotte M. Yonge

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I. THE BRIDAL OF THE WHITE AND BLACK

CHAPTER II. THE SEPARATION

CHAPTER III. THE FAMILY COUNCIL

CHAPTER IV. TITHONUS

CHAPTER V. THE CONVENT BIRD

CHAPTER VI. FOULLY COZENED

CHAPTER VII. THE QUEEN'S PASTORAL

CHAPTER VIII. 'LE BROUILLON'

CHAPTER IX. THE WEDDING WITH CRIMSON FAVOURS

CHAPTER X. MONSIEUR'S BALLET

CHAPTER XI. THE KING'S TRAGEDY

CHAPTER XII. THE PALACE OF SLAUGHTER

CHAPTER XIII. THE BRIDEGROOM'S ARRIVAL

CHAPTER XIV. SWEET HEART

CHAPTER XV. NOTRE-DAME DE BELLAISE

CHAPTER XVI. THE HEARTHS AND THICKETS OF THE BOCAGE

CHAPTER XVII. THE GHOSTS OF THE TEMPLARS

CHAPTER XVIII. THE MOONBEAM

CHAPTER XIX. LA RUE DES TROIS FEES

CHAPTER XX. THE ABBE

CHAPTER XXI. UNDER THE WALNUT-TREE

CHAPTER XXII. DEPARTURE

CHAPTER XXIII. THE EMPTY CRADLE

CHAPTER XXIV. THE GOOD PRIEST OF NISSARD

CHAPTER XXV. THE VELVET COACH

CHAPTER XXVI. THE CHEVALIER'S EXPIATION

CHAPTER XXVII. THE DYING KING

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE ORPHANS OF LA SABLERIE

CHAPTER XXIX. IN THE KING'S NAME

CHAPTER XXX. CAGED IN THE BLACKBIRD'S NEST

CHAPTER XXXI. THE DARK POOL OF THE FUTURE

CHAPTER XXXII. 'JAM SATIS'

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE SCANDAL OF THE SYNOD OF MONTAUBAN

CHAPTER XXXIV. MADAME LA DUCHESSE

CHAPTER XXXV. THE ITALIAN PEDLAR

CHAPTER XXXVI. SPELL AND POTION

CHAPTER XXXVII. BEATING AGAINST THE BARS

CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE ENEMY IN PRESENCE

CHAPTER XXXIX. THE PEDLAR'S PREDICTION

CHAPTER XL. THE SANDS OF OLONNE

CHAPTER XLI. OUR LADY OF HOPE

CHAPTER XLII. THE SILVER BULLET

CHAPTER XLIII. LA BAISER D'EUSTACIE

CHAPTER XLIV. THE GALIMAFRE

PREFACE

It is the fashion to call every story controversial that deals with times when controversy
or a war of religion was raging; but it should be remembered that there are some which only
attempt to portray human feelings as affected by the events that such warfare occasioned. 'Old
Mortality' and 'Woodstock' are not controversial tales, and the 'Chaplet of Pearls' is so quite
as little. It only aims at drawing certain scenes and certain characters as the convulsions
of the sixteenth century may have affected them, and is, in fact, like all historical romance,
the shaping of the conceptions that the imagination must necessarily form when dwelling upon
the records of history. That faculty which might be called the passive fancy, and might almost
be described in Portia's song,--

                  'It is engendered in the eyes,
              By READING fed--and there it dies,'--

that faculty, I say, has learnt to feed upon character and incident, and to require that the
latter should be effective and exciting. Is it not reasonable to seek for this in the days
when such things were not infrequent, and did not imply exceptional wickedness or misfortune
in those engaged in them? This seems to me one plea for historical novel, to which I would
add the opportunity that it gives for study of the times and delineation of characters. Shakespeare's
Henry IV. and Henry V., Scott's Louis XI., Manzoni's Federigo Borromeo, Bulwer's Harold, James's
Philip Augustus, are all real contributions to our comprehension of the men themselves, by
calling the chronicles and memoirs into action. True, the picture cannot be exact, and is sometimes
distorted--nay, sometimes praiseworthy efforts at correctness in the detail take away whatever
might have been lifelike in the outline. Yet, acknowledging all this, I must still plead for
the tales that presumptuously deal with days gone by, as enabling the young to realize history
vividly--and, what is still more desirable, requiring an effort of the mind which to read of
modern days does not. The details of Millais' Inquisition or of his Huguenot may be in error
in spite of all his study and diligence, but they have brought before us for ever the horrors
of the auto-da-fe, and the patient, steadfast heroism of the man who can smile aside his wife's
endeavour to make him tacitly betray his faith to save his life. Surely it is well, by pen
as by picture, to go back to the past for figures that will stir the heart like these, even
though the details be as incorrect as those of the revolt of Liege or of La Ferrette in 'Quentin
Durward' and 'Anne of Geierstein.'

Scott, however, willfully carved history to suit the purposes of his story; and in these days
we have come to feel that a story must earn a certain amount of credibility by being in keeping
with established facts, even if striking events have to be sacrificed, and that the order of
time must be preserved. In Shakespeare's days, or even in Scott's, it might have been possible
to bring Henry III. and his mignons to due punishment within the limits of a tale beginning
with the Massacre of St. Bartholomew; but in 1868 the broad outlines of tragedy must be given
up to keep within the bounds of historical verity.

How far this has been done, critics better read than myself must decide. I have endeavoured
to speak fairly, to the best of my ability, of such classes of persons as fell in with the
course of the narrative, according to such lights as the memoirs of the time afford. The Convent
is scarcely a CLASS portrait, but the condition of it seems to be justified by hints in the
Port Royal memoirs, respecting Maubuisson and others which Mere Angelique reformed. The intolerance
of the ladies at Montauban is described in Madame Duplessis-Mornay's life; and if Berenger's
education and opinions are looked on as not sufficiently alien from Roman Catholicism, a reference
to Froude's 'History of Queen Elizabeth' will show both that the customs of the country clergy,
and likewise that a broad distinction was made by the better informed among the French between
Calvinism and Protestantism or Lutheranism, in which they included Anglicanism. The minister
Gardon I do not consider as representing his class. He is a POSSIBILITY modified to serve the
purposes of the story.

Into historical matters, however, I have only entered so far as my story became involved with
them. And here I have to apologize for a few blunders, detected too late for alteration even
in the volumes. Sir Francis Walsingham was a young rising statesman in 1572, instead of the
elderly sage he is represented; his daughter Frances was a mere infant, and Sir Philip Sidney
was not knighted till much later. For the rest, I have tried to show the scenes that shaped
themselves before me as carefully as I could; though of course they must not be a presentiment
of the times themselves, but of my notion of them.

C. M. Yonge

November 14th, 1868

THE CHAPLET OF PEARLS

or

THE WHITE AND BLACK RIBAUMONT

CHAPTER I. THE BRIDAL OF THE WHITE AND BLACK

           Small was the ring, and small in truth the finger:
         What then?  the faith was large that dropped it down.
                        Aubrey De Vere, INFANT BRIDAL

Setting aside the consideration of the risk, the baby-weddings of the Middle Ages must have
been very pretty sights.

So the Court of France thought the bridal of Henri Beranger Eustache de Ribaumont and of Marie
Eustacie Rosalie de Rebaumont du Nid-de-Merle, when, amid the festivals that accompanied the
signature of the treaty of Cateau-Cabresis, good-natured King Henri II. presided merrily at
the union of the little pair, whose unite ages did not reach ten years.

There they stood under the portal of Notre-Dame, the little bridegroom in a white velvet coat,
with puffed sleeves, slashed with scarlet satin, as were the short, also puffed breeches meeting
his long white knitted silk stockings some way above the knee; large scarlet rosettes were
in his white shoes, a scarlet knot adorned his little sword, and his velvet cap of the same
colour bore a long white plume, and was encircled by a row of pearls of priceless value. They
are no other than that garland of pearls which, after a night of personal combat before the
walls of Calais, Edward III. of England took from his helmet and presented to Sir Eustache
de Ribaumont, a knight of Picardy, bidding him say everywhere that it was a gift from the King
of England to the bravest of knights.

The precious heirlooms were scarcely held with the respect due to an ornament so acquired.
The manly garb for the first time assumed by his sturdy legs, and the possession of the little
sword, were evidently the most interesting parts of the affair to the youthful husband, who
seemed to find in them his only solace for the weary length of the ceremony. He was a fine,
handsome little fellow, fair and rosy, with bright blue eyes, and hair like shining flax, unusually
tall and strong-limbed for his age; and as he gave his hand to his little bride, and walked
with her under a canopy up to kneel at the High Altar, for the marriage blessing and the mass,
they looked like a full-grown couple seen through a diminishing-glass.

The little bride was perhaps a less beautiful child, but she had a splendid pair of black eyes,
and a sweet little mouth, both set into the uncomprehending solemnity of baby gravity and contentment
in fine clothes. In accordance with the vow indicated by her name of Marie, her dress was white
and blue, turquoise forget-me-nots bound the little lace veil on her dark chestnut hair, the
bosom of her white satin dress was sprinkled with the same azure jewel, and turquoises bordered
every seam of the sweeping skirt with a train befitting a count's daughter, and meandered in
gorgeous constellations round the hem. The little thing lisped her own vows forth without much
notion of their sense, and indeed was sometimes prompted by her bridesmaid cousin, a pretty
little girl a year older, who thrust in her assistance so glibly that the King, as well as
others of the spectators, laughed, and observed that she would get herself married to the boy
instead of her cousin.

There was, however, to be no doubt nor mistake about Beranger and Eustacie de Ribaumont being
man and wife. Every ceremony, religious or domestic, that could render a marriage valid, was
gone through with real earnestness, although with infinite gaiety, on the part of the court.
Much depended on their union, and the reconcilement of the two branches of the family had long
been a favourite scheme of King Henri II.

Both alike were descended from Anselme de Ribaumont, renowned in the first Crusade, and from
the brave Picard who had received the pearls; but, in the miserable anarchy of Charles VI.'s
reign, the elder brother had been on the Burgundian side--like most of the other nobles of
Picardy--and had thus been brought into the English camp, where, regarding Henry V. as lawfully
appointed to the succession, and much admiring him and his brother Nedford, he had become an
ardent supporter of the English claim. He had married an English lady, and had received the
grant if the castle of Leurre in Normandy by way of compensation for his ancestral one of Ribaumont
in Picardy, which had been declared to be forfeited by his treason, and seized by his brother.

This brother had always been an Armagnac, and had risen and thriven with his party,--before
the final peace between France and England obliged the elder line to submit to Charles VII.
Since that time there had been a perpetual contention as to the restitution of Chateau Ribaumont,
a strife which under Louis XI. had become an endless lawsuit; and in the days of dueling had
occasioned a good many insults and private encounters. The younger branch, or Black Ribaumonts,
had received a grant from Louis XI. of the lands of Nid-de-Merle, belonging to an unfortunate
Angevin noble, who had fallen under the royal displeasure, and they had enjoyed court favour
up to the present generation, when Henri II., either from opposition to his father, instinct
for honesty, or both, had become a warm friend to the gay and brilliant young Baron de Ribaumont,
head of the white or elder branch of the family.

The family contention seemed likely to wear out of its own accord, for the Count de Ribaumont
was an elderly and childless man, and his brother, the Chevalier de Ribaumont, was, according
to the usual lot of French juniors, a bachelor, so that it was expected that the whole inheritance
would centre upon the elder family. However, to the general surprise, the Chevalier late in
life married, and became the father of a son and daughter; but soon after calculations were
still more thrown out by the birth of a little daughter in the old age of the Count.

Almost from the hour in which her sex was announced, the King had promised the Baron de Ribaumont
that she should be the wife of his young son, and that all the possessions of the house should
be settled upon the little couple, engaging to provide for the Chevalier's disappointed heir
in some commandery of a religious order of knighthood.

The Baron's wife was English. He had, when on a visit to his English kindred, entirely turned
the head of the lovely Annora Walwyn, and finding that her father, one of the gravest of Tudor
statesmen, would not hear of her breaking her engagement to the honest Dorset squire Marmaduke
Thistlewood, he had carried her off by a stolen marriage and coup de main, which, as her beauty,
rank, and inheritance were all considerable, had won him great reputation at the gay court
of Henri II.

Infants as the boy and girl were, the King had hurried on their marriage to secure its taking
place in the lifetime of the Count. The Countess had died soon after the birth of the little
girl, and if the arrangement were to take effect at all, it must be before she should fall
under the guardianship of her uncle, the Chevalier. Therefore the King had caused her to be
brought up from the cottage in Anjou, where she had been nursed, and in person superintended
the brilliant wedding. He himself led off the dance with the tiny bride, conducting her through
its mazes with fatherly kindliness and condescension; but Queen Catherine, who was strongly
in the interests of the Angevin branch, and had always detested the Baron as her husband's
intimate, excused herself from dancing with the bridegroom. He therefore fell to the share
of the Dauphiness Queen of Scots, a lovely, bright-eyed, laughing girl, who so completely fascinated
the little fellow, that he convulsed the court by observing that he should not have objected
to be married to some one like her, instead of a little baby like Eustacie.

Amid all the mirth, it was not only the Chevalier and the Queen who bore displeased looks.
In truth, both were too great adepts in court life to let their dissatisfaction appear. The
gloomiest face was that of him whose triumph it was--the bridegroom's father, the Baron de
Ribaumont. He had suffered severely from the sickness that prevailed in St. Quentin, when in
the last August the Admiral de Coligny had been besieged there by the Spaniards, and all agreed
that he had never been the same man since, either in health or in demeanour. When he came back
from his captivity and found the King bent on crowning his return by the marriage of the children,
he had hung back, spoken of scruples about such unconscious vows, and had finally only consented
under stress of the personal friendship of the King, and on condition that he and his wife
should at once have the sole custody of the little bride. Even then he moved about the gay
scene with so distressed and morose an air that he was evidently either under the influence
of a scruple of conscience or of a foreboding of evil.

No one doubted that it had been the latter, when, three days later, Henri II., in the prime
of his strength and height of his spirits, encountered young Des Lorges in the lists, received
the splinter of a lance in his eye, and died two days afterwards.

No sooner were his obsequies over than the Baron de Ribaumont set off with his wife and the
little bridal pair for his castle of Leurre, in Normandy, nor was he ever seen at court again.

CHAPTER II. THE SEPARATION

     Parted without the least regret,
     Except that they had ever met.
         *     *     *     *
     Misses, the tale that I relate,
     This lesson seems to carry:
     Choose not alone a proper mate,
     But proper time to marry!
                     COWPER, PAIRING TIME ANTICIPATED

'I will have it!'

'Thou shalt not have it!'

'Diane says it is mine.'

'Diane knows nothing about it.'

'Gentlemen always yield to ladies.'

'Wives ought to mind their husbands.'

'Then I will not be thy wife.'

'Thou canst not help it.'

'I will. I will tell my father what M. le Baron reads and sings, and then I know he will.'

'And welcome.'

Eustacie put out her lip, and began to cry.

The 'husband and wife,' now eight and seven years old, were in a large room hung with tapestry,
representing the history of Tobit. A great state bed, curtained with piled velvet, stood on
a sort of dais at the further end; there was a toilet-table adorned with curiously shaped boxes,
and coloured Venetian glasses, and filagree pouncet-boxes, and with a small mirror whose frame
was inlaid with gold and ivory. A large coffer, likewise inlaid, stood against the wall, and
near it a cabinet, of Dutch workmanship, a combination of ebony, ivory, wood, and looking-glass,
the centre retreating, and so arranged that by the help of most ingenious attention to perspective
and reflection, it appeared like the entrance to a magnificent miniature cinque-cento palace,
with steps up to a vestibule paved in black and white lozenges, and with three endless corridors
diverging from it. So much for show; for use, this palace was a bewildering complication of
secret drawers and pigeon-holes, all depending indeed upon one tiny gold key; but unless the
use of that key were well understood, all it led to was certain outer receptacles of fragrant
Spanish gloves, knots of ribbon, and kerchiefs strewn over with rose leaves and lavender. However,
Eustacie had secured the key, and was now far beyond these mere superficial matters. Her youthful
lord had just discovered her mounted on a chair, her small person decked out with a profusion
of necklaces, jewels, bracelets, chains, and rings; and her fingers, as well as they could
under their stiffening load, were opening the very penetralia of the cabinet, the inner chamber
of the hall, where lay a case adorned with the Ribaumont arms and containing the far-famed
chaplet of pearls. It was almost beyond her reach, but she had risen on tip-toe, and was stretching
out her hand for it, when he, springing behind her on the chair, availed himself of his superior
height and strength to shut the door of this Arcanum and turn the key. His mortifying permission
to his wife to absent herself arose from pure love of teasing, but the next moment he added,
still holding his hand on the key--'As to telling what my father reads, that would be treason.
How shouldst thou know what it is?'

'Does thou think every one is an infant but thyself?'

'But who told thee that to talk of my father's books would get him into trouble?' continued
the boy, as they still stood together on the high heavy wooden chair.

She tossed her pretty head, and pretended to pout.

'Was it Diane? I will know. Didst thou tell Diane?'

Instead of answering, now that his attention to the key was relaxed, Eustacie made a sudden
dart, like a little wild cat, at the back of the chair and at the key. They chair over-balanced;
Beranger caught at the front drawer of the cabinet, which, unlocked by Eustacie, came out in
his hand, and chair, children, drawer, and curiosities all went rolling over together on the
floor with a hubbub that brought all the household together, exclaiming and scolding. Madame
de Ribaumont's displeasure at the rifling of her hoards knew no bounds; Eustacie, by way of
defence, shrieked 'like twenty demons;' Beranger, too honourable to accuse her, underwent the
same tempest; and at last both were soundly rapped over the knuckles with the long handle of
Madame's fan, and consigned to two separate closets, to be dealt with on the return of M. le
Baron, while Madame returned to her embroidery, lamenting the absence of that dear little Diane,
whose late visit at the chateau had been marked by such unusual tranquility between the children.

Beranger, in his dark closet, comforted himself with the shrewd suspicion that his father was
so employed as not to be expected at home till supper-time, and that his mother's wrath was
by no means likely to be so enduring as to lead her to make complaints of the prisoners; and
when he heard a trampling of horses in the court, he anticipated a speedy release and summons
to show himself to the visitors. He waited long, however, before he heard the pattering of
little feet; then a stool scraped along the floor, the button of his door was undone, the stool
pushed back, and as he emerged, Eustacie stood before him with her finger to her lip. 'CHUT,
Beranger! It is my father and uncle, and Narcisse, and, oh! so many gens d'armes. They are
come to summon M. le Baron to go with them to disperse the preche by the Bac de l'Oie. And
oh, Beranger, is he not there?'

'I do not know. He went out with his hawk, and I do not think he could have gone anywhere else.
Did they say so to my mother?'

'Yes; but she never knows. And oh, Beranger, Narcisse told me--ah, was it to tease me?--that
Diane has told them all they wanted to know, for that they sent her here on purpose to see
if we were not all Huguenots.

'Very likely, the little viper! Le me pass, Eustacie. I must go and tell my father.'

'Thou canst not get out that way; the court is full of men-at-arms. Hark, there's Narcisse
calling me. He will come after me.'

There was not a moment to lose. Berenger flew along a corridor, and down a narrow winding stair,
and across the kitchen; then snatching at the arm of a boy of his own age whom he met at the
door, he gasped out, 'Come and help me catch Follet, Landry!' and still running across an orchard,
he pulled down a couple of apples from the trees, and bounded into a paddock where a small
rough Breton pony was feeding among the little tawny Norman cows. The animal knew his little
master, and trotted towards him at his call of 'Follet, Follet. Now be a wise Follet, and play
me no tricks. Thou and I, Follet, shall do good service, if thou wilt be steady.'

Follet made his advances, but with a coquettish eye and look, as if ready to start away at
any moment.

'Soh, Follet. I have no bread for thee, only two apples; but, Follet, listen. There's my beau-pere
the Count, and the Chevalier, all spite, and their whole troop of savage gens d'armes, come
out to fall upon the poor Huguenots, who are doing no harm at all, only listening to a long
dull sermon. And I am much afraid my father is there, for he went out his hawk on his wrist,
and he never does take Ysonde for any real sport, as thou and I would do, Follet. He says it
is all vanity of vanities. But thou know'st, if they caught him at the preche they would call
it heresy and treason, and all sorts of horrors, and any way they would fall like demons on
the poor Huguenots, Jacques and all--thine own Jacques, Follet. Come, be a loyal pony, Follet.
Be at least as good as Eustacie.'

Follet was evidently attentive to this peroration, turning round his ear in a sensible attitude,
and advancing his nose to the apples. As Beranger held them out to him, the other boy clutched
his shaggy forelock so effectually that the start back did not shake him off, and the next
moment Beranger was on his back.

'And I, Monsieur, what shall I do?'

'Thou, Landry? I know. Speed like a hare, lock the avenue gate, and hide the key. That will
delay them a long time. Off now, Follet.'

Beranger and Follet understood one another far too well to care about such trifles as saddle
and bridle, and off they went through green grassy balks dividing the fields, or across the
stubble, till, about three miles from the castle, they came to a narrow valley, dipping so
suddenly between the hills that it could hardly have been suspected by one unaware of its locality,
and the sides were dotted with copsewood, which entirely hid the bottom. Beranger guided his
pony to a winding path that led down the steep side of the valley, already hearing the cadence
of a loud, chanting voice, throwing out its sounds over the assembly, whence arose assenting
hums over an undercurrent of sobs, as though the excitable French assembly were strongly affected.

The thicket was so close that Beranger was almost among the congregation before he could see
more than a passing glimpse of a sea of heads. Stout, ruddy, Norman peasants, and high white-capped
women, mingled with a few soberly-clad townsfolk, almost all with the grave, steadfast cast
of countenance imparted by unresisted persecution, stood gathered round the green mound that
served as a natural pulpit for a Calvinist minister, who more the dress of a burgher, but entirely
black. To Beranger's despair, he was in the act of inviting his hearers to join with him in
singing one of Marot's psalms; and the boy, eager to lose not a moment, grasped the skirt of
the outermost of the crowd. The man, an absorbed-looking stranger, merely said, 'Importune
me not, child.'

'Listen!' said Beranger; 'it imports---'

'Peace,' was the stern answer; but a Norman farmer looked round at that moment, and Beranger
exclaimed, 'Stop the singing! The gens d'armes!' The psalm broke off; the whisper circulated;
the words 'from Leurre' were next conveyed from lip to lip, and, as it were in a moment, the
dense human mass had broken up and vanished, stealing through the numerous paths in the brushwood,
or along the brook, as it descended through tall sedges and bulrushes. The valley was soon
as lonely as it had been populous; the pulpit remained a mere mossy bank, more suggestive or
fairy dances than of Calvinist sermons, and no one remained on the scene save Beranger with
his pony, Jacques the groom, a stout farmer, the preacher, and a tall thin figure in the plainest
dark cloth dress that could be worn by a gentleman, a hawk on his wrist.

'Thou here, my boy!' he exclaimed, as Beranger came to his side; and as the little fellow replied
in a few brief words, he took him by the hand, and said to the minister, 'Good Master Isaac,
let me present my young son to you, who under Heaven hath been the means of saving many lives
this day.'

Maitre Isaac Gardon, a noted preacher, looked kindly at the boy's fair face, and said, 'Bless
thee, young sir. As thou hast been already a chosen instrument to save life, so mayest thou
be ever after a champion of the truth.'

'Monsieur le Baron,' interposed Jacques, 'it were best to look to yourself. I already hear
sounds upon the wind.'

'And you, good sir?' said the Baron.

'I will see to him,' said the farmer, grasping him as a sort of property. 'M. le Baron had
best keep up the beck. Out on the moor there he may fly the hawk, and that will best divert
suspicion.'

