Supper was nearly over at Reminitsky's when he arrived; the floor looked like the scene of
a cannibal picnic, and what food was left was cold. It was always to be this way with him,
he found, and he had to make the best of it. The dining-room of this boarding-house, owned
and managed by the G. F. C., brought to his mind the state prison, which he had once visited--with
its rows of men sitting in silence, eating starch and grease out of tin-plates. The plates
here were of crockery half an inch thick, but the starch and grease never failed; the formula
of Reminitsky's cook seemed to be, When in doubt add grease, and boil it in. Even ravenous
as Hal was after his long tramp and his labour below ground, he could hardly swallow this food.
On Sundays, the only time he ate by daylight, the flies swarmed over everything, and he remembered
having heard a physician say that an enlightened man should be more afraid of a fly than of
a Bengal tiger. The boarding-house provided him with a cot and a supply of vermin, but with
no blanket, which was a necessity in the mountain regions. So after supper he had to seek out
his boss, and arrange to get credit at the company-store. They were willing to give a certain
amount of credit, he found, as this would enable the camp-marshal to keep him from straying.
There was no law to hold a man for debt--but Hal knew by this time how much a camp-marshal
cared for law.

SECTION 6.

For three days Hal toiled in the bowels of the mine, and ate and pursued vermin at Reminitsky's.
Then came a blessed Sunday, and he had a couple of free hours to see the sunlight and to get
a look at the North Valley camp. It was a village straggling along more than a mile of the
mountain canyon. In the centre were the great breaker-buildings, the shaft-house, and the power-house
with its tall chimneys; nearby were the company-store and a couple of saloons. There were several
boarding-houses like Reminitsky's, and long rows of board cabins containing from two to four
rooms each, some of them occupied by several families. A little way up a slope stood a school-house,
and another small one-room building which served as a church; the clergyman belonging to the
General Fuel Company denomination. He was given the use of the building, by way of start over
the saloons, which had to pay a heavy rental to the company; it seemed a proof of the innate
perversity of human nature that even in spite of this advantage, heaven was losing out in the
struggle against hell in the coal-camp.

As one walked through this village, the first impression was of desolation. The mountains towered,
barren and lonely, scarred with the wounds of geologic ages. In these canyons the sun set early
in the afternoon, the snow came early in the fall; everywhere Nature's hand seemed against
man, and man had succumbed to her power. Inside the camps one felt a still more cruel desolation--that
of sordidness and animalism. There were a few pitiful attempts at vegetable-gardens, but the
cinders and smoke killed everything, and the prevailing colour was of grime. The landscape
was strewn with ash-heaps, old wire and tomato-cans, and smudged and smutty children playing.

There was a part of the camp called "shanty-town," where, amid miniature mountains of slag,
some of the lowest of the newly-arrived foreigners had been permitted to build themselves shacks
out of old boards, tin, and sheets of tar-paper. These homes were beneath the dignity of chicken-houses,
yet in some of them a dozen people were crowded, men and women sleeping on old rags and blankets
on a cinder floor. Here the babies swarmed like maggots. They wore for the most part a single
ragged smock, and their bare buttocks were shamelessly upturned to the heavens. It was so the
children of the cave-men must have played, thought Hal; and waves of repulsion swept over him.
He had come with love and curiosity, but both motives failed here. How could a man of sensitive
nerves, aware of the refinements and graces of life, learn to love these people, who were an
affront to his every sense--a stench to his nostrils, a jabbering to his ear, a procession
of deformities to his eye? What had civilisation done for them? What could it do? After all,
what were they fit for, but the dirty work they were penned up to do? So spoke the haughty
race-consciousness of the Anglo-Saxon, contemplating these Mediterranean hordes, the very shape
of whose heads was objectionable.

But Hal stuck it out; and little by little new vision came to him. First of all, it was the
fascination of the mines. They were old mines--veritable cities tunnelled out beneath the mountains,
the main passages running for miles. One day Hal stole off from his job, and took a trip with
a "rope-rider," and got through his physical senses a realisation of the vastness and strangeness
and loneliness of this labyrinth of night. In Number Two mine the vein ran up at a slope of
perhaps five degrees; in part of it the empty cars were hauled in long trains by an endless
rope, but coming back loaded, they came of their own gravity. This involved much work for the
"spraggers," or boys who did the braking; it sometimes meant run-away cars, and fresh perils
added to the everyday perils of coal-mining.

The vein varied from four to five feet in thickness; a cruelty of nature which made it necessary
that the men at the "working face"--the place where new coal was being cut--should learn to
shorten their stature. After Hal had squatted for a while and watched them at their tasks,
he understood why they walked with head and shoulders bent over and arms hanging down, so that,
seeing them coming out of the shaft in the gloaming, one thought of a file of baboons. The
method of getting out the coal was to "undercut" it with a pick, and then blow it loose with
a charge of powder. This meant that the miner had to lie on his side while working, and accounted
for other physical peculiarities.

Thus, as always, when one understood the lives of men, one came to pity instead of despising.
Here was a separate race of creatures, subterranean, gnomes, pent up by society for purposes
of its own. Outside in the sunshine-flooded canyon, long lines of cars rolled down with their
freight of soft-coal; coal which would go to the ends of the earth, to places the miner never
heard of, turning the wheels of industry whose products the miner would never see. It would
make precious silks for fine ladies, it would cut precious jewels for their adornment; it would
carry long trains of softly upholstered cars across deserts and over mountains; it would drive
palatial steamships out of wintry tempests into gleaming tropic seas. And the fine ladies in
their precious silks and jewels would eat and sleep and laugh and lie at ease--and would know
no more of the stunted creatures of the dark than the stunted creatures knew of them. Hal reflected
upon this, and subdued his Anglo-Saxon pride, finding forgiveness for what was repulsive in
these people--their barbarous, jabbering speech, their vermin-ridden homes, their bare-bottomed
babies.

SECTION 7.

It chanced before many days that Hal got a holiday, relieving the monotony of his labours as
stableman: an accidental holiday, not provided for in his bargain with the pit-boss. Something
went wrong with the ventilating-course in Number Two, and he began to notice a headache, and
heard the men grumbling that their lamps were burning low. Then, as matters began to get serious,
orders came to get the mules to the surface.

Which meant an amusing adventure. The delight of Hal's pets at seeing the sunlight was irresistibly
comic. They could not be kept from lying down and rolling on their backs in the cinder-strewn
street; and when they were corralled in a distant part of the camp where actual grass grew,
they abandoned themselves to rapture like a horde of school children at a picnic.

So Hal had a few free hours; and being still young and not cured of idle curiosities, he climbed
the canyon wall to see the mountains. As he was sliding down again, toward evening, a vivid
spot of colour was painted into his picture of mine-life; he found himself in somebody's back
yard, and being observed by somebody's daughter, who was taking in the family wash. It was
a splendid figure of a lass, tall and vigorous, with the sort of hair that in polite circles
is called auburn, and that flaming colour in the cheeks which is Nature's recompense to people
who live where it rains all the time. She was the first beautiful sight Hal had seen since
he had come up the canyon, and it was only natural that he should be interested. It seemed
to him that, so long as the girl stared, he had a right to stare back. It did not occur to
him that he too was a pleasing sight--that the mountain air had given colour to his cheeks
and a shine to his gay brown eyes, while the mountain winds had blown his wavy brown hair.

"Hello," said she, at last, in a warm voice, unmistakably Irish.

"Hello yourself," said Hal, in the accepted dialect; then he added, with more elegance, "Pardon
me for trespassing on your wash."

Her grey eyes opened wider. "Go on!" she said.

"I'd rather stay," said Hal. "It's a beautiful sunset."

"I'll move, so ye can see it better." She carried her armful of clothes over and dropped them
into the basket.

"No," said Hal, "it's not so fine now. The colours have faded."

She turned and gazed at him again. "Go on wid ye! I been teased about my hair since before
I could talk."

"'Tis envy," said Hal, dropping into her way of speech; and he came a few steps nearer, so
that he could inspect the hair more closely. It lay above her brow in undulations which were
agreeable to the decorative instinct, and a tight heavy braid of it fell over her shoulders
and swung to her waist-line. He observed the shoulders, which were sturdy, obviously accustomed
to hard labour; not conforming to accepted romantic standards of femininity, yet having an
athletic grace of their own. They were covered with a faded blue calico dress, unfortunately
not entirely clean; also, the young man noticed, there was a rent in one shoulder through which
a patch of skin was visible. The girl's eyes, which had been following his, became defiant;
she tossed a piece of her washing over the shoulder, where it stayed through the balance of
the interview.

"Who are ye?" she demanded, suddenly.

"My name's Joe Smith. I'm a stableman in Number Two."

"And what were ye doin' up there, if a body might ask?" She lifted her grey eyes to the bare
mountainside, down which he had come sliding in a shower of loose stones and dirt.

"I've been surveying my empire," said he.

"Your what?"

"My empire. The land belongs to the company, but the landscape belongs to him who cares for it."

She tossed her head a little. "Where did ye learn to talk like ye do?"

"In another life," said he--"before I became a stableman. Not in entire forgetfulness, but
trailing clouds of glory did I come."

For a moment she wrestled with this. Then a smile broke upon her face. "Sure, 'tis like a poetry-book!
Say some more!"

"O, singe fort, so suess und fein!" quoted Hal--and saw her look puzzled.

"Aren't you American?" she inquired; and he laughed. To speak a foreign language in North Valley
was not a mark of culture!

"I've been listening to the crowd at Reminitsky's," he said, apologetically.

"Oh! You eat there?"

"I go there three times a day. I can't say I eat very much. Could you live on greasy beans?"

"Sure," laughed the girl, "the good old pertaties is good enough for me."

"I should have said you lived on rose leaves!" he observed.

"Go on wid ye! 'Tis the blarney-stone ye been kissin'!"

"'Tis no stone I'd be wastin' my kisses on."

"Ye're gettin' bold, Mister Smith. I'll not listen to ye." And she turned away, and began industriously
taking her clothes from the line. But Hal did not want to be dismissed. He came a step closer.

"Coming down the mountain-side," he said, "I found something wonderful. It's bare and grim
up there, but I came on a sheltered corner where the sun shone, and there was a wild rose.
Only one! I thought to myself, 'So roses grow, even in the loneliest parts of the world!'"

"Sure, 'tis a poetry-book again!" she cried. "Why didn't ye bring the rose?"

"There is a poetry-book that tells us to 'leave the wild-rose on its stalk.' It will go on
blooming there; but if one were to pluck it, it would wither in a few hours."

He had meant nothing more by this than to keep the conversation going. But her answer turned
the tide of their acquaintance.

"Ye can never be sure, lad. Perhaps to-night a storm may come and blow it to pieces. Perhaps
if ye'd pulled it and been happy, 'twould 'a been what the rose was for."

Whatever of unconscious patronage there had been in the poet's attitude was lost now in the
eternal mystery. Whether the girl knew it--or cared--she had won the woman's first victory.
She had caught the man's mind and pinned it with curiosity. What did this wild rose of the
mining camps mean?

The wild rose, apparently unconscious that she had said anything epoch-making, was busy with
the wash; and meantime Hal Warner studied her features and pondered her words. From a lady
of sophistication they would have meant only one thing, an invitation; but in this girl's clear
grey eyes was nothing of wantonness, only pain. But what was this pain in the face and words
of one so young, so eager and alive? Was it the melancholy of her race, the thing one got in
old folk-songs? Or was it a new and special kind of melancholy, engendered in mining-camps
in the far West of America?

The girl's countenance was as intriguing as her words. Her grey eyes were set under sharply
defined dark brows, which did not match her hair. Her lips also were sharply defined, and straight,
almost without curves, so that it seemed as if her mouth had been painted in carmine upon her
face. These features gave her, when she stared at you, an aspect vivid and startling, bold,
with a touch of defiance. But when she smiled, the red lips would curve into gentler lines,
and the grey eyes would become wistful, and seemingly darker in colour. Winsome indeed, but
not simple, was this Irish lass!

SECTION 8.

Hal asked the name of his new acquaintance, and she told him it was Mary Burke. "Ye've not
been here long, I take it," she said, "or ye'd have heard of 'Red Mary.' 'Tis along of this hair."

"I've not been here long," he answered, "but I shall hope to stay now--along of this hair!
May I come to see you some time, Miss Burke?"

She did not reply, but glanced at the house where she lived. It was an unpainted, three room
cabin, more dilapidated than the average, with bare dirt and cinders about it, and what had
once been a picket-fence, now falling apart and being used for stove-wood. The windows were
cracked and broken, and upon the roof were signs of leaks that had been crudely patched.

"May I come?" he made haste to ask again--so that he would not seem to look too critically
at her home.

"Perhaps ye may," said the girl, as she picked up the clothes basket. He stepped forward, offering
to carry it, but she did not give it up. Holding it tight, and looking him defiantly in the
face, she said, "Ye may come, but ye'll not find it a happy place to visit, Mr. Smith. Ye'll
hear soon enough from the neighbours."

"I don't think I know any of your neighbours," said he.

There was sympathy in his voice; but her look was no less defiant. "Ye'll hear about it, Mr.
Smith; but ye'll hear also that I hold me head up. And 'tis not so easy to do that in North
Valley."

"You don't like the place?" he asked; and he was amazed by the effect of this question, which
was merely polite. It was as if a storm cloud had swept over the girl's face. "I hate it! 'Tis
a place of fear and devils!"

He hesitated a moment; then, "Will you tell me what you mean by that when I come?"

But "Red Mary" was winsome again. "When ye come, Mr. Smith, I'll not be entertaining ye with
troubles. I'll put on me company manner, and we'll go out for a nice walk, if ye please."

All the way as he walked back to Reminitsky's to supper, Hal thought about this girl; not merely
her pleasantness to the eye, so unexpected in this place of desolation, but her personality,
which baffled him--the pain that seemed always just beneath the surface of her thoughts, the
fierce pride which flashed out at the slightest suggestion of sympathy, the way she had of
brightening when he spoke the language of metaphor, however trite. How had she come to know
about poetry-books? He wanted to know more about this miracle of Nature--this wild rose blooming
on a bare mountain-side!

SECTION 9.

There was one of Mary Burke's remarks upon which Hal soon got light--her statement that North
Valley was a place of fear. He listened to the tales of these underworld men, until it came
so that he shuddered with dread each time that he went down in the cage.

There was a wire-haired and almond eyed Korean, named Cho, a "rope-rider" in Hal's part of
the mine. He was one of those who had charge of the long trains of cars, called "trips," which
were hauled through the main passage-ways; the name "rope-rider" came from the fact that he
sat on the heavy iron ring to which the rope was attached. He invited Hal to a seat with him,
and Hal accepted, at peril of his job as well as of his limbs. Cho had picked up what he fondly
thought was English, and now and then one could understand a word. He pointed upon the ground,
and shouted above the rattle of the cars: "Big dust!" Hal saw that the ground was covered with
six inches of coal-dust, while on the old disused walls one could write his name in it. "Much
blow-up!" said the rope-rider; and when the last empty cars had been shunted off into the working-rooms,
and he was waiting to make up a return "trip," he laboured with gestures to explain what he
meant. "Load cars. Bang! Bust like hell!"

Hal knew that the mountain air in this region was famous for its dryness; he learned now that
the quality which meant life to invalids from every part of the world meant death to those
who toiled to keep the invalids warm. Driven through the mines by great fans, this air took
out every particle of moisture, and left coal dust so thick and dry that there were fatal explosions
from the mere friction of loading-shovels. So it happened that these mines were killing several
times as many men as other mines throughout the country.

Was there no remedy for this, Hal asked, talking with one of his mule-drivers, Tim Rafferty,
the evening after his ride with Cho. There was a remedy, said Tim--the law required sprinkling
the mines with "adobe-dust"; and once in Tim's life, he remembered this law's being obeyed.
There had come some "big fellows" inspecting things, and previous to their visit there had
been an elaborate campaign of sprinkling. But that had been several years ago, and now the
apparatus was stored away, nobody knew where, and one heard nothing about sprinkling.

It was the same with precautions against gas. The North Valley mines were especially "gassy,"
it appeared. In these old rambling passages one smelt a stink as of all the rotten eggs in
all the barn-yards of the world; and this sulphuretted hydrogen was the least dangerous of
the gases against which a miner had to contend. There was the dreaded "choke-damp," which was
odourless, and heavier than air. Striking into soft, greasy coal, one would open a pocket of
this gas, a deposit laid up for countless ages, awaiting its predestined victim. A man might
sink to sleep as he lay at work, and if his "buddy," or helper, happened to be out of sight,
and to delay a minute too long, it would be all over with the man. And there was the still
more dreaded "fire-damp," which might wreck a whole mine, and kill scores and even hundreds of men.

Against these dangers there was a "fire-boss," whose duty was to go through the mine, testing
for gas, and making sure that the ventilating-course was in order, and the fans working properly.
The "fire-boss" was supposed to make his rounds in the early morning, and the law specified
that no one should go to work till he had certified that all was safe. But what if the "fire-boss"
overslept himself, or happened to be drunk? It was too much to expect thousands of dollars
to be lost for such a reason. So sometimes one saw men ordered to their work, and sent down
grumbling and cursing. Before many hours some of them would be prostrated with headache, and
begging to be taken out; and perhaps the superintendent would not let them out, because if
a few came, the rest would get scared and want to come also.

Once, only last year, there had been an accident of that sort. A young mule-driver, a Croatian,
told Hal about it while they sat munching the contents of their dinner-pails. The first cage-load
of men had gone down into the mine, sullenly protesting; and soon afterwards some one had taken
down a naked light, and there had been an explosion which had sounded like the blowing up of
the inside of the world. Eight men had been killed, the force of the explosion being so great
that some of the bodies had been wedged between the shaft wall and the cage, and it had been
necessary to cut them to pieces to get them out. It was them Japs that were to blame, vowed
Hal's informant. They hadn't ought to turn them loose in coal mines, for the devil himself
couldn't keep a Jap from sneaking off to get a smoke.

So Hal understood how North Valley was a place of fear. What tales the old chambers of these
mines could have told, if they had had voices! Hal watched the throngs pouring in to their
labours, and reflected that according to the statisticians of the government eight or nine
of every thousand of them were destined to die violent deaths before a year was out, and some
thirty more would be badly injured. And they knew this, they knew it better than all the statisticians
of the government; yet they went to their tasks! Reflecting upon this, Hal was full of wonder.
What was the force that kept men at such a task? Was it a sense of duty? Did they understand
that society had to have coal and that some one had to do the "dirty work" of providing it?
Did they have a vision of a future, great and wonderful, which was to grow out of their ill-requited
toil? Or were they simply fools or cowards, submitting blindly, because they had not the wit
nor the will to do otherwise? Curiosity held him, he wanted to understand the inner souls of
these silent and patient armies which through the ages have surrendered their lives to other
men's control.

SECTION 10.

Hal was coming to know these people; to see them no longer as a mass, to be despised or pitied
in bulk, but as individuals, with individual temperaments and problems, exactly like people
in the world of the sunlight. Mary Burke and Tim Rafferty, Cho the Korean and Madvik the Croatian--one
by one these individualities etched themselves into the foreground of Hal's picture, making
it a thing of life, moving him to sympathy and fellowship. Some of these people, to be sure,
were stunted and dulled to a sordid ugliness of soul and body--but on the other hand, some
of them were young, and had the light of hope in their hearts, and the spark of rebellion.

There was "Andy," a boy of Greek parentage; Androkulos was his right name--but it was too much
to expect any one to get that straight in a coal-camp. Hal noticed him at the store, and was
struck by his beautiful features, and the mournful look in his big black eyes. They got to
talking, and Andy made the discovery that Hal had not spent all his time in coal-camps, but
had seen the great world. It was pitiful, the excitement that came into his voice; he was yearning
for life, with its joys and adventures--and it was his destiny to sit ten hours a day by the
side of a chute, with the rattle of coal in his ears and the dust of coal in his nostrils,
picking out slate with his fingers. He was one of many scores of "breaker-boys."

"Why don't you go away?" asked Hal.

"Christ! How I get away? Got mother, two sisters."

"And your father?" So Hal made the discovery that Andy's father had been one of those men whose
bodies had had to be cut to pieces to get them out of the shaft. Now the son was chained to
the father's place, until his time too should come!

"Don't want to be miner!" cried the boy. "Don't want to get kil-lid!"

He began to ask, timidly, what Hal thought he could do if he were to run away from his family
and try his luck in the world outside. Hal, striving to remember where he had seen olive-skinned
Greeks with big black eyes in this beautiful land of the free, could hold out no better prospect
than a shoe-shining parlour, or the wiping out of wash-bowls in a hotel-lavatory, handing over
the tips to a fat padrone.

Andy had been to school, and had learned to read English, and the teacher had loaned him books
and magazines with wonderful pictures in them; now he wanted more than pictures, he wanted
the things which they portrayed. So Hal came face to face with one of the difficulties of mine-operators.
They gathered a population of humble serfs, selected from twenty or thirty races of hereditary
bondsmen; but owing to the absurd American custom of having public-schools, the children of
this population learned to speak English, and even to read it. So they became too good for
their lot in life; and then a wandering agitator would get in, and all of a sudden there would
be hell. Therefore in every coal-camp had to be another kind of "fire-boss," whose duty it
was to guard against another kind of explosions--not of carbon monoxide, but of the human soul.

The immediate duties of this office in North Valley devolved upon Jeff Cotton, the camp-marshal.
He was not at all what one would have expected from a person of his trade--lean and rather
distinguished-looking, a man who in evening clothes might have passed for a diplomat. But his
mouth would become ugly when he was displeased, and he carried a gun with six notches upon
it; also he wore a deputy-sheriff's badge, to give him immunity for other notches he might
wish to add. When Jeff Cotton came near, any man who was explosive went off to be explosive
by himself. So there was "order" in North Valley, and it was only on Saturday and Sunday nights,
when the drunks had to be suppressed, or on Monday mornings when they had to be haled forth
and kicked to their work, that one realised upon what basis this "order" rested.

Besides Jeff Cotton, and his assistant, "Bud" Adams, who wore badges, and were known, there
were other assistants who wore no badges, and were not supposed to be known. Coming up in the
cage one evening, Hal made some remark to the Croatian mule-driver, Madvik, about the high
price of company-store merchandise, and was surprised to get a sharp kick on the ankle. Afterwards,
as they were on their way to supper, Madvik gave him the reason. "Red-faced feller, Gus. Look
out for him--company spotter."

"Is that so?" said Hal, with interest. "How do you know?"

"I know. Everybody know."

"He don't look like he had much sense," said Hal--who had got his idea of detectives from Sherlock
Holmes.

"No take much sense. Go pit-boss, say, 'Joe feller talk too much. Say store rob him.' Any damn
fool do that. Hey?"

"To be sure," admitted Hal. "And the company pays him for it?"

"Pit-boss pay him. Maybe give him drink, maybe two bits. Then pit-boss come to you: 'You shoot
your mouth off too much, feller. Git the hell out of here!' See?"

Hal saw.

"So you go down canyon. Then maybe you go 'nother mine. Boss say, 'Where you work?' You say
'North Valley.' He say, 'What your name?' You say, 'Joe Smith.' He say, 'Wait.' He go in, look
at paper; he come out, say, 'No job!' You say, 'Why not?' He say, 'Shoot off your mouth too
much, feller. Git the hell out of here!' See?"

"You mean a black-list," said Hal.

"Sure, black-list. Maybe telephone, find out all about you. You do anything bad, like talk
union"--Madvik had dropped his voice and whispered the word "union"--"they send your picture--don't
get job nowhere in state. How you like that?"

SECTION 11.

Before long Hal had a chance to see this system of espionage at work, and he began to understand
something of the force which kept these silent and patient armies at their tasks. On a Sunday
morning he was strolling with his mule-driver friend Tim Rafferty, a kindly lad with a pair
of dreamy blue eyes in his coal-smutted face. They came to Tim's home, and he invited Hal to
come in and meet his family. The father was a bowed and toil-worn man, but with tremendous
strength in his solid frame, the product of many generations of labour in coal-mines. He was
known as "Old Rafferty," despite the fact that he was well under fifty. He had been a pit-boy
at the age of nine, and he showed Hal a faded leather album with pictures of his ancestors
in the "oul' country"--men with sad, deeply lined faces, sitting very stiff and solemn to have
their presentments made permanent for posterity.

The mother of the family was a gaunt, grey-haired woman, with no teeth, but with a warm heart.
Hal took to her, because her home was clean; he sat on the family door-step, amid a crowd of
little Rafferties with newly-washed Sunday faces, and fascinated them with tales of adventures
cribbed from Clark Russell and Captain Mayne Reid. As a reward he was invited to stay for dinner,
and had a clean knife and fork, and a clean plate of steaming hot potatoes, with two slices
of salt pork on the side. It was so wonderful that he forthwith inquired if he might forsake
his company boarding-house and come and board with them.

Mrs. Rafferty opened wide her eyes. "Sure," exclaimed she, "do you think you'd be let?"

"Why not?" asked Hal.

"Sure, 't would be a bad example for the others."

"Do you mean I have to board at Reminitsky's?"

"There be six company boardin'-houses," said the woman.

"And what would they do if I came to you?"

"First you'd get a hint, and then you'd go down the canyon, and maybe us after ye."

"But there's lots of people have boarders in shanty-town," objected Hal.

"Oh! Them wops! Nobody counts them--they live any way they happen to fall. But you started
at Reminitsky's, and 't would not be healthy for them that took ye away."

"I see," laughed Hal. "There seem to be a lot of unhealthy things hereabouts."

"Sure there be! They sent down Nick Ammons because his wife bought milk down the canyon. They
had a sick baby, and it's not much you get in this thin stuff at the store. They put chalk
in it, I think; any way, you can see somethin' white in the bottom."

"So you have to trade at the store, too!"

"I thought ye said ye'd worked in coal-mines," put in Old Rafferty, who had been a silent listener.

"So I have," said Hal. "But it wasn't quite that bad."

