The marriage of the present sovereign to Mrs. Fitzherbert has already been mentioned. A few
years afterward, in the year 1795, regarding that marriage as illegal, he had contracted a
second with his cousin, the Princess Caroline of Brunswick. But, even in royal families, a
more unfortunate alliance had never taken place. They had never met till she arrived in England
for the wedding; and, as he had never professed any other motive for consenting to the match
than a desire to obtain the payment of his debts, he did not think it necessary to disguise
his feelings, or to change his habits, or even to treat her with decency for a single day.
On his very first introduction to her he behaved to her with marked discourtesy.[183] Shortly
after the marriage he formally separated himself from her, and, both before and after the separation,
lived in undisguised licentiousness. She, on her part, indignant at his neglect and infidelity,
and exasperated at the restrictions which he presently placed on her intercourse with their
only child, made no secret of her feelings, and on many occasions displayed such disregard
of the ordinary rules of prudence and propriety, that he had some color for charges of infidelity
to her marriage vows which, after a few years, he brought against her. The King, her uncle,
could not refuse to appoint a commission to investigate the truth of the accusation; but the
commissioners unanimously acquitted her of any graver fault than imprudence. She was again
received at court, from which she had been excluded while the inquiry was pending; but her
husband's animosity toward her was not appeased. As time wore on, and as the King's derangement
deprived her of her only protector, it even seemed as if he desired to give it all the notoriety
possible, till at last, wearied out by his implacable persecution, she sought and obtained
his permission to quit the country and take up her abode abroad. It was a most unfortunate
resolution on her part. She fixed her residence in Italy, where she gradually learned to neglect
the caution which she had observed in England, till, after a year or two, reports arose of
her intimacy with a servant whom she had raised from a menial situation to that of the chief
officer of her household, and whom she admitted to a familiarity of intercourse which others
besides her husband thought quite incompatible with innocence. He sent agents into Italy to
inquire into the truth of those rumors; and their report so greatly confirmed them that, even
before the King's death, he laid it before the Prime-minister, with a demand that he should
at once take steps to procure him a divorce, in which he professed to believe that the Princess
herself would willingly acquiesce. He was so far correct, that her legal advisers were willing
to advise her to consent to "a formal separation, to be ratified by an act of Parliament."
But such an arrangement fell far short of the Prince's wishes. The Princess Charlotte, the
heiress to his throne, had died in childbirth two years before, and he was anxious to be set
free to marry again. The ministers were placed in a situation of painful embarrassment. There
was an obvious difficulty in pointing out to one who already stood toward them in the character
of their sovereign, and who must inevitably soon become so, that his own conduct made the prospect
of obtaining a divorce from the Ecclesiastical Courts hopeless; and the only other expedients
calculated to attain his end, "a direct application to Parliament for relief, founded upon
the special circumstances of the case," or "a proceeding against the Princess for high-treason,"
were but little more promising. Indeed, it was afterward ascertained to be the unanimous opinion
of the judges that the charge of high-treason could not be legally sustained, since the individual
who was alleged to be the partner in the criminality imputed to her was a foreigner, and therefore,
"owing no allegiance to the crown," could not be said to have violated it.[184]

He chafed under their resistance to his wish, and would have deprived them of their offices,
could he have relied on any successors whom he might give them proving more complaisant; but,
before he could make up his mind, the death of George III. forced upon both him and them the
consideration of his and his wife's position, since it made it necessary to remodel the prayer
for the royal family, and instantly to decide whether her name and title as Queen were to be
inserted in it. He was determined that they should not be mentioned; and, as the practice of
praying for a Queen Consort by name appeared not to have been invariable, they were willing
to gratify him on this point, though it was evidently highly probable that she would consider
this as a fresh insult, sufficient to justify her in carrying out a threat, which she had recently
held out, of returning to England. Her ablest advisers did not, indeed, regard it in this light,
since the prayer as now framed implored the Divine protection for "all the royal family" in
general terms, in which she might be supposed to be included, and made no separate mention
of any member of the family.[185] But, unfortunately, she was much more under the influence
of counsellors who were neither lawyers nor statesmen, but who only desired to use her as a
tool to obtain notoriety for themselves. A long negotiation ensued. It was inevitable that
some application should be made to Parliament in connection with her affairs, since the annuity
which had been settled upon her by Parliament in 1814, on the occasion of her departure from
England, had expired with the life of the late King. And the ministers proposed that that annuity
should now be raised from £35,000 to £50,000, on condition of her remaining abroad, having,
by their positive refusal to concur in any proceedings against her while she remained abroad,
extorted the King's acquiescence in this proposal, though he called it a "great and painful
sacrifice of his personal feelings." They sought to conciliate her acceptance of it by mentioning
her in it by her title of "Queen," and by coupling with it a sanction to her appointment of
her law-officers, an Attorney and Solicitor General, an act which could only be exercised by
a Queen. And, though a part of the condition of her residence abroad required that she should
do so under some other title, that seemed only a conforming to an ordinary practice of royal
princes on their travels. At the same time, the ministers stated frankly to Mr. Brougham, a
lawyer of the highest reputation as an advocate, whom she had appointed her Attorney-general,
that, if she should reject the offer, and come to England, as she had already announced her
intention of doing, such a course would leave them no alternative, but would compel them to
institute proceedings against her.

Eventually she preferred the advice of others to that of Mr. Brougham, or, as it may, perhaps,
be more consistent with the real fact to say, she yielded to her own feelings of hatred of
her husband, which, it must be confessed, were far from unnatural. She believed, or professed
to believe, that he had more to dread from an exposure of his conduct than she had from any
revelations of her actions; and, under this impression, in the spring she crossed the Channel
and took up her residence in London. It was a step which seemed to Lord Liverpool to leave
him no alternative, and, in consequence, he at once took the course which he had from the beginning
conceived her arrival would render indispensable. He brought down to Parliament a royal message
from the King, announcing that her return to England had made it necessary to communicate to
the Houses documents relating to her conduct since her departure from the kingdom, which he
recommended to their immediate and serious attention. He proposed the appointment by ballot
of a committee of the House of Lords to examine those documents; and when the committee had
reported that the documents containing "allegations deeply affecting the honor of the Queen,
etc., ... appeared to the committee calculated to affect not only the honor of the Queen, but
also the dignity of the crown and the moral feelings and honor of the country, so that in their
opinion, they should become the subject of a solemn inquiry, which might be best effected in
the course of a legislative proceeding," he introduced a "Bill of Pains and Penalties" to deprive
her of her title of Queen, and to annul her marriage.

No one would willingly dwell on so melancholy and disgraceful a subject. As far as the Queen
was concerned, a protracted investigation, during which a number of witnesses, favorable and
unfavorable, were examined, left no doubt on the mind of almost all dispassionate people that
the misconduct alleged against her had been abundantly proved. At the same time there was a
feeling equally general that the King's treatment of her from the very beginning of their married
life had disentitled him to any kind of relief; and this sentiment was so strongly shown by
the gradual diminution of the majority in favor of the bill, as it proceeded through its several
stages, that Lord Liverpool, who had already abandoned the clause annulling the marriage, eventually
withdrew the whole bill, perceiving the impossibility of inducing the House of Commons to pass
it when it should go down to that House.

No act of Lord Liverpool's ministry has been attacked with greater bitterness than that of
allowing any proceedings whatever to be taken against the Queen, partly on the ground that,
however profligate her conduct had been, it had certainly not been more gross than that of
her husband, which had provoked and given opportunity for her errors; partly because a great
scandal was thus published to the world, and a shock was given to the national decency and
morality which the ministers, above all men, were bound to avoid; partly, also, because the
mode of proceeding adopted was alleged to be wholly unprecedented; and because, as was contended,
the power of Parliament ought not to be invoked to inflict penalties which, if deserved, should
have been left to the courts of law. It cannot be denied that there is weight in these objections;
but, in estimating their force, it must be considered that every part of the conduct of the
ministers showed that their motive was not the gratification of the King's private feelings,
whether directed to the object of indulging his enmity against his wife or to that of obtaining
freedom to contract a second marriage; on the contrary, so long as the Queen remained abroad,
no language could be more distinct, consistently with the respect due to his royal dignity,
than that in which they expressed to him their insurmountable objection to every mode of proceeding
against her which he had suggested, founded almost equally on considerations of "the interests
of his Majesty and of the monarchy,"[186] and "the painful obligation" under which they conceived
themselves to lie "of postponing their regard for his Majesty's feelings to great public interests."

But when the Queen came to England the case was greatly altered. The question now forced on
the consideration of the cabinet was, not the mode of avoiding an intolerable scandal, but
the choice between two scandals, both of the gravest character. The scandal to be dreaded from
the revelations of the conduct of both King and Queen, that could not fail to result from the
investigation which, in justice, must precede any attempt to legislate on the subject, was,
indeed, as great as ever; but it had now to be compared with the alternative scandal of allowing
a woman lying under such grievous imputations to preside over the British court, as, if resident
in England, and in undisturbed possession of her royal rank, she of necessity must preside.
The consequence would evidently have been that the court would have been deserted by all who
could give lustre and dignity to it by their position and character; and, in the slights thus
offered to her, royalty and the monarchy themselves would seem to be brought into contempt.
The latter scandal, too, would be the more permanent. Grievous and shameful as might be the
disclosures which must be anticipated from an investigation in which the person accused must
be permitted the employment of every means of defence, including recrimination, the scandal
was yet one which would, to a certain extent, pass away with the close of the inquiry. But,
if she were left undisturbed in the enjoyment of her royal rank, and of privileges which could
not be separated from it, that scandal would last as long as her life--longer, in all probability,
than the reign. It is hardly too much to say that the monarchy itself might have been endangered
by the spectacle of such a King and such a Queen; and the ministers might fairly contend that,
of two great dangers and evils, they had, on the whole, chosen the least.

Lastly, if the Queen's conduct was to be investigated, though the mode adopted was denounced
as unconstitutional by the Opposition (for, not greatly to their credit, the leading Whigs
made her guilt or innocence a party question), it does not seem to deserve the epithet, though
it may be confessed to have been unsupported by any direct precedent. Isabella, the faithless
wife of Edward II., had, indeed, been condemned by "the Lords" to the forfeiture of many of
the estates which she had illegally appropriated; but it does not appear that her violation
of her marriage vows, or even her probable share or acquiescence in her husband's murder, formed
any portion of the grounds of her deprivation. And the Parliament which attainted Catherine
Howard proceeded solely on her confession of ante-nuptial licentiousness, without giving her
any opportunity of answering or disproving the other charges which were brought against her.
Unprecedented, therefore, the course now adopted may be admitted to have been. But it was the
only practicable one. The different minutes of the cabinet, which the Prime-minister laid before
the King, established most conclusively the correctness of their opinion that no impeachment
for high-treason could lie against her. She could not be an accomplice in such an offence of
one who, being a foreigner, could not have committed it. It was equally impossible for the
King to sue for a divorce, as one of his subjects might have done; because it was the established
practice of Parliament not to entertain a bill of divorce without the judgment of the Ecclesiastical
Court being previously obtained and produced. And, under the circumstances, to obtain from
the Ecclesiastical Court such a sentence as could alone lay the foundation for a bill of divorce
was clearly out of the question.

The case was a new and extraordinary one, and, being such, could only be dealt with in some
new and extraordinary manner. And in all such cases an appeal to Parliament seems the most,
if not the only, constitutional mode of solving the difficulty. Where the existing laws are
silent or inapplicable, the most natural resource clearly is, to go back to the fountain of
all law; that is, to the Parliament, which alone is competent to make a new law. In one point
of view the question may seem unimportant, since we may well hope that no similar case will
ever arise to require the precedent now set to be appealed to; but not unimportant, if it in
any way or degree contributes to establish the great principle, that the solution of all matters
of moment to the state belongs to the Parliament alone: a principle which, in its legitimate
completeness, carries with it a condemnation of many a modern association whose object, whether
avowed or disguised, is clearly to supersede where it fails to intimidate the sole constitutional
Legislature.

The abandonment of the bill was naturally hailed as a triumph by the Queen and her partisans;
but with the excitement of the struggle against the government the interest taken in her case
died away. The next year, when she demanded to be crowned with her husband, his refusal to
admit her claim elicited scarcely any sympathy for her under this renewed grievance; in truth,
it was one as to which precedent was unfavorable to her demand. And the mortification at finding
herself already almost forgotten contributed to bring on an illness of which she died in less
than a year after the termination of what was called her trial; and in a short time both she
and it were forgotten.

For the next few years the history of the kingdom is one of progressive correction of abuses
or defects. The King paid visits to Ireland and Scotland, parts of his dominions which his
father had never once visited, and in both was received with the most exultant and apparently
sincere acclamations. And, though one great calamity fell on the ministry in the loss of Lord
Castlereagh--who, in a fit of derangement, brought on by the excitement of overwork, unhappily
laid violent hands on himself--his death, sad as it was, could not be said to weaken or to
affect the general policy of the cabinet. Indeed, as he was replaced at the Foreign Office
by his old colleague and rival, Mr. Canning, in one point of view the administration may be
said to have been strengthened by the change, since, as an orator, Canning had confessedly
no equal in either House of Parliament. Another change was productive of still more practical
advantage. Lord Sidmouth retired from the Home Office, and was succeeded by Mr. Peel, previously
Secretary for Ireland; and the transfer of that statesman to an English office facilitated
reforms, some of which were as yet little anticipated even by the new Secretary himself. The
earliest of them, and one not the least important in its bearing on the well-doing of society,
the mitigation of the severity of our Criminal Code, was, indeed, but the following up of a
series of measures in the same direction which had been commenced in the time of the Duke of
Portland's second administration, and, it must be added, in spite of its resistance. The influence
of various trades, and of the owners of different kinds of property, pressing in turns upon
our legislators, had rendered our code the most sanguinary that had, probably, ever existed
in Christendom. Each class of proprietor regarded only the preservation of his own property,
and had no belief in the efficacy of any kind of protection for it, except such as arose from
the fear of death; nor any doubt that he was justified in procuring the infliction of that
penalty to avert the slightest loss to himself. The consequence was that, at the beginning
of the present century, there were above two hundred offences the perpetrators of which were
liable to capital punishment, some of a very trivial character, such as cutting down a hop-vine
in a Kentish hop-garden, robbing a rabbit-warren or a fish-pond, personating an out-pensioner
of Greenwich Hospital, or even being found on a high-road with a blackened face, the intention
to commit a crime being inferred from the disguise, even though no overt act had been committed.
An act of Elizabeth made picking a pocket a capital offence; another, passed as late as the
reign of William III., affixed the same penalty to shop-lifting, even when the article stolen
might not exceed the value of five shillings. And the fault of these enactments was not confined
to their unreasonable cruelty; they were as mischievous even to those whom they were designed
to protect as they were absurd, as some owners began to perceive. In the list of capital offences
was that of stealing linen from a bleaching-ground. And a large body of bleachers presented
a petition to Parliament entreating the repeal of the statute which made it such on the ground
that, practically, it had been found not to strike terror into the thieves, but almost to secure
them impunity from the reluctance of juries to find a verdict which would sentence a fellow-creature
to the gallows for such an offence.

Nor was this by any means the only instance in which the barbarity of the law defeated its
object. And its combined impolicy and inhumanity had some years before attracted the notice
of Sir Samuel Romilly, who had been Solicitor-general in the administration of 1806, and who,
shortly after its dissolution, began to apply himself to the benevolent object of procuring
the repeal of many of the statutes in question, and in the course of a few years did succeed
in obtaining the substitution of milder penalties for several of the less flagitious offences.
He died in 1818; but the work which he had began was continued by Sir James Mackintosh, a man
of even more conspicuous ability, and one who could adduce his own experience in favor of the
changes which he recommended to the Parliament, since he had filled the office of Recorder
of Bombay for eight years, and had discharged his duties with a most diligent and consistent
avoidance of capital punishment, which he had never inflicted except for murder; his lenity,
previously unexampled in that land, having been attended with a marked diminution of crime.
He procured the substitution of milder penalties in several additional cases; and at last,
in 1822, he carried a resolution engaging the House of Commons "the next session to take into
its serious consideration the means of increasing the efficacy of the criminal law by abating
its undue rigor." And this success had the effect of inducing the new minister to take the
question into his own hands. Peel saw that it was one which, if it were to be dealt with at
all, ought to be regulated by the government itself, and not be left to independent members,
who could not settle it with satisfactory completeness; and therefore, in 1823, he introduced
a series of bills to carry out the principle implied in Mackintosh's resolution of the preceding
year, not only simplifying the law, but abolishing the infliction of capital punishment in
above a hundred cases. He was unable to carry out his principle as fully as he could have desired.
The prejudice in favor of still retaining death as a punishment for forgery was too strong
for even his resolution as yet to overbear, though many private bankers supplied him with the
same arguments against it in their case which had formerly been alleged by the bleachers. But
the example which he now set, enforced as it was with all the authority of the government,
was followed in many subsequent sessions, till at last our code, instead of the most severe,
has become the most humane in Europe, and death is now never inflicted except for murder, or
crimes intended or calculated to lead to murder. It is worth remarking, however, that neither
Romilly, Mackintosh, nor Peel ever entertained the slightest doubt of the right of a government
to inflict capital punishment. In the last address which Mackintosh delivered to the grand-jury
at Bombay he had said: "I have no doubt of the right of society to inflict the punishment of
death on enormous crimes, wherever an inferior punishment is not sufficient. I consider it
as a mere modification of the right of self-defence, which may as justly be exercised in deterring
from attack as in repelling it."[187] And in his diary, when speaking of a death-warrant which
he had just signed, he says: "I never signed a paper with more perfect tranquillity of mind.
I felt agitation in pronouncing the sentence, but none in subscribing the warrant; I had no
scruple of conscience on either occasion."

And it seems that his position is unassailable. The party whose interest is to be kept in view
by the Legislature in imposing punishments on offences is society, the people at large, not
the offender. The main object of punishment is to deter rather than to reform; to prevent crime,
not to take vengeance on the criminal. And, if crime be more effectually prevented by moderate
than by severe punishments, society has a right to demand, for its own security (as a matter
of policy, not of justice), that the moderate punishment shall, on that ground, be preferred.
That punishments disproportioned in their severity to the magnitude of the offence often defeated
their object was certain. Not only had jurymen been known to confess that they had preferred
violating their oaths to doing still greater violence to their consciences, by sending a man
to the gallows for a deed which, in their opinion, did not deserve it, but the very persons
who had been injured by thefts or forgeries were often deterred from prosecution of the guilty
by the knowledge that the forfeiture of their lives must follow their conviction. It was almost
equally certain that criminals calculated beforehand on the chance of impunity which the known
prevalence of these feelings afforded them. Wherever the sympathy of the public does not go
along with the law, it must, to a great extent, fail; and that the terrible frequency of sanguinary
punishment had failed in all its objects, was proved by the fact that, in spite of the numerous
executions which took place, crimes increased in a still greater proportion than the population.
Under the reformed system, now first inaugurated on an extensive scale, crimes have become
rarer, detection and punishment more certain--a combination of results which must be the object
equally of the law-giver and the philanthropist.

It is not quite foreign to this subject to relate that, a year or two before, a mode of trial
had been abolished which, though long disused, by some curious oversight had still been allowed
to remain on the statute-book. In the feudal times either the prosecutor or the prisoner, in
cases of felony, had a right to claim that the cause should be decided by "wager of battle;"
but it was an ordeal which, with one exception in the reign of George II., had not been mentioned
for centuries. In 1817, however, the relatives of a woman who had been murdered, being dissatisfied
with the acquittal of a man who had been indicted as her murderer, sued out "an appeal of murder"
against him, on which he claimed to have the appeal decided by "wager of battle," and threw
down a glove on the floor of the court to make good his challenge. The claim was protested
against by the prosecutor; but Lord Ellenborough, the Chief-justice, pronounced judgment that,
"trial by battle having been demanded, it was the legal and constitutional mode of trial, and
must be awarded. It was the duty of the judges to pronounce the law as it was, and not as they
might wish it to be."[188] He gave sentence accordingly; and, had the two parties been of equal
stature and strength, the Judges of the Common Pleas might have been seen, in their robes,
presiding from sunrise till sunset over a combat to be fought, as the law prescribed, with
stout staves and leathern shields, till one should cry "Craven," and yield up the field. Fortunately
for them, the alleged murderer was so superior in bodily strength to his adversary, that the
latter declined the contest. But the public advancement of the claim for such a mode of decision
was fatal to any subsequent exercise of it; and, in spite of the Common Council of London,
who, confiding, perhaps, in the formidable appearance presented by some of the City Champions
on Lord Mayor's Day, petitioned Parliament to preserve it, the next year the Attorney-general
brought in a bill to abolish it, and the judges were no longer compelled to pronounce an absurd
sentence in obedience to an obsolete law, framed at a time when personal prowess was a virtue
to cover a multitude of sins, and might was the only right generally acknowledged.

The foundation, too, was laid for other reforms. Lord Liverpool was more thoroughly versed
than any of his predecessors, except Pitt, in the soundest principles of political economy;
and in one of the first speeches which he made in the new reign he expressed a decided condemnation,
not only of any regulations which were designed to favor one trade or one interest at the expense
of another, but generally of the whole system and theory of protection; and one of his last
measures made an alteration in the manner of taxing corn imported from foreign countries, which
was greatly to the advantage of the consumer. It was known as the "sliding-scale," the tax
on imported corn varying with the price in the market, rising when the price fell, and falling
when it rose; the design with which it was framed being to keep the price to the consumer at
all times as nearly equal as possible. At first, however, it was vehemently denounced by the
bulk of the agriculturists, who were re-enforced on this occasion by a large party from among
the Whigs, and especially by some of those connected with Ireland. But a more suitable period
for discussing the establishment of Free-trade as the ruling principle of our financial policy
will occur hereafter.

The introduction of the sliding-scale was almost the last act of Lord Liverpool's ministry.
At the beginning of 1827 he was preparing a fresh measure on the same subject, the effect of
which was intended to diminish still farther the protection which the former act had given,
and which was in consequence denounced by many landholders of great wealth and influence, led,
on this subject, by the King's favorite brother, the Duke of York.[189] But, a few days after
the meeting of Parliament, he was struck down by an attack of paralysis, from which he never
recovered.

