     "The Memoirs of Philip de Comines terminate about twenty years
     before the Reformation, six years after the first voyage of
     Columbus. They relate, then, to a tranquil period immediately
     preceding a period of extraordinary movement; to the last stage
     of an old state of things, now on the point of passing away.
     Such periods, the lull before the burst of the hurricane, the
     almost oppressive stillness which announces the eruption, or,
     to use Campbell's beautiful image--

     'The torrent's smoothness ere it dash below,'--

     are always, I think, full of a very deep interest. But it is
     not from the mere force of contrast with the times that follow,
     nor yet from the solemnity which all things wear when their
     dissolution is fast approaching--the interest has yet another
     source; our knowledge, namely, that in that tranquil period lay
     the germs of the great changes following, taking their shape
     for good or for evil, and sometimes irreversibly, while all
     wore an outside of unconsciousness. We, enlightened by
     experience, are impatient of this deadly slumber; we wish in
     vain that the age could have been awakened to a sense of its
     condition, and taught the infinite preciousness of the passing
     hour. And as, when a man has been cut off by sudden death, we
     are curious to know whether his previous words or behaviour
     indicated any sense of his coming fate, so we examine the
     records of a state of things just expiring, anxious to observe
     whether, in any point, there may be discerned an anticipation
     of the great future, or whether all was blindness and
     insensibility. In this respect, Comines' Memoirs are striking
     from their perfect unconsciousness: the knell of the middle
     ages had been already sounded, yet Comines has no other notions
     than such as they had tended to foster; he describes their
     events, their characters, their relations, as if they were to
     continue for centuries. His remarks are such as the simplest
     form of human affairs gives birth to; he laments the
     instability of earthly fortune, as Homer notes our common
     mortality, or in the tone of that beautiful dialogue between
     Solon and Croesus, when the philosopher assured the king, that
     to be rich was not necessarily to be happy. But, resembling
     Herodotus in his simple morality, he is utterly unlike him in
     another point; for whilst Herodotus speaks freely and honestly
     of all men, without respect of persons, Philip de Comines
     praises his master Louis the Eleventh as one of the best of
     princes, although he witnessed not only the crimes of his life,
     but the miserable fears and suspicions of his latter end, and
     has even faithfully recorded them. In this respect Philip de
     Comines is in no respect superior to Froissart, with whom the
     crimes committed by his knights and great lords never interfere
     with his general eulogies of them: the habit of deference and
     respect was too strong to be broken, and the facts which he
     himself relates to their discredit, appear to have produced on
     his mind no impression."

We now enter upon a period which may be called the modern part of modern history, the more
complicated period, in contradistinction to the more simple state of things which, up to this
moment, has occupied the student's attention. It is impossible to read, without deep regret,
the passage in which Dr Arnold speaks of his intention--"if life and health be spared him,
to enter into minute details; selecting some one country as the principal subject of his enquiries,
and illustrating the lessons of history for the most part from its particular experience."

He proceeds, however, to the performance of the task immediately before him. After stating
that the great object, the [Greek: teleiotaton telos], of history is that which most nearly
touches the inner life of civilized man, he pauses for a while at the threshold before he enters
into the sanctuary, and undoubtedly some external knowledge is requisite before we penetrate
into its recesses: we want some dwelling-place, as it were, for the mind, some local habitation
in which our ideas may be arranged, some topics that may be firmly grasped by the memory, and
on which the understanding may confidently rest; and thus it is that geography, even with a
view to other purposes, must engross, in the first instance, a considerable share of our attention.
The sense in which Dr Arnold understands a knowledge of geography, is explained in the following
luminous and instructive commentary:--

     "I said that geography held out one hand to geology and
     physiology, while she held out the other to history. In fact,
     geology and physiology themselves are closely connected with
     history. For instance, what lies at the bottom of that question
     which is now being discussed every where, the question of the
     corn-laws, but the geological fact that England is more richly
     supplied with coal-mines than any other country in the world?
     what has given a peculiar interest to our relations with China,
     but the physiological fact, that the tea-plant, which is become
     so necessary to our daily life, has been cultivated with equal
     success in no other climate or country? what is it which
     threatens the permanence of the union between the northern and
     southern states of the American confederacy, but the
     physiological fact, that the soil and climate of the southern
     states render them essentially agricultural, while those of the
     northern states, combined with their geographical advantages as
     to sea-ports, dispose them no less naturally to be
     manufacturing and commercial? The whole character of a nation
     may be influenced by its geology and physical geography. But
     for the sake of its mere beauty and liveliness, if there were
     no other consideration, it would be worth our while to acquire
     this richer view of geography. Conceive only the difference
     between a ground-plan and a picture. The mere plan geography of
     Italy gives us its shape, as I have observed, and the position
     of its towns; to these it may add a semicircle of mountains
     round the northern boundary to represent the Alps, and another
     long line stretching down the middle of the country to
     represent the Apennines. But let us carry on this a little
     further, and give life and meaning and harmony to what is at
     present at once lifeless and confused. Observe, in the first
     place, how the Apennine line, beginning from the southern
     extremity of the Alps, runs across Italy to the very edge of
     the Adriatic, and thus separates naturally the Italy proper of
     the Romans, from Cisalpine Gaul. Observe again, how the Alps,
     after running north and south, where they divide Italy from
     France, turn then away to the eastward, running almost parallel
     to the Apennines, till they too touch the head of the Adriatic,
     on the confines of Istria. Thus between these two lines of
     mountains there is enclosed one great basin or plain; enclosed
     on three sides by mountains, open only on the east to the sea.
     Observe how widely it spreads itself out, and then see how well
     it is watered. One great river flows through it in its whole
     extent, and this is fed by streams almost unnumbered,
     descending towards it on either side, from the Alps on the one
     side, and from the Apennines on the other. Who can wonder that
     this large and rich and well-watered plain should be filled
     with flourishing cities, or that it should have been contended
     for so often by successive invaders? Then descending into Italy
     proper, we find the complexity of its geography quite in
     accordance with its manifold political division. It is not one
     simple central ridge of mountains, leaving a broad belt of
     level country on either side between it and the sea, nor yet
     is it a chain rising immediately from the sea on one side, like
     the Andes in South America, and leaving room, therefore, on the
     other side for wide plains of table-land, and rivers with a
     sufficient length of course to become at last great and
     navigable. It is a back-bone thickly set with spines of unequal
     length, some of them running out at regular distances parallel
     to each other, but others twisted so strangely that they often
     run for a long way parallel to the back-bone, or main ridge,
     and interlace with one another in a maze almost inextricable.
     And, as if to complete the disorder, in those spots where the
     spines of the Apennines, being twisted round, run parallel to
     the sea and to their own central chain, and thus leave an
     interval of plain between their bases and the Mediterranean,
     volcanic agency has broken up the space thus left with other
     and distinct groups of hills of its own creation, as in the
     case of Vesuvius, and of the Alban hills near Rome. Speaking
     generally then, Italy is made up of an infinite multitude of
     valleys pent in between high and steep hills, each forming a
     country to itself, and cut off by natural barriers from the
     others. Its several parts are isolated by nature, and no art of
     man can thoroughly unite them. Even the various provinces of
     the same kingdom are strangers to each other; the Abruzzi are
     like an unknown world to the inhabitants of Naples, insomuch,
     that when two Neapolitan naturalists, not ten years since, made
     an excursion to visit the Majella, one of the highest of the
     central Apennines, they found there many medicinal plants
     growing in the greatest profusion, which the Neapolitans were
     regularly in the habit of importing from other countries, as no
     one suspected their existence within their own kingdom. Hence
     arises the romantic character of Italian scenery: the constant
     combination of a mountain outline and all the wild features of
     a mountain country, with the rich vegetation of a southern
     climate in the valleys. Hence too the rudeness, the pastoral
     simplicity, and the occasional robber habits, to be found in
     the population; so that to this day you may travel in many
     places for miles together in the plains and valleys without
     passing through a single town or village; for the towns still
     cluster on the mountain sides, the houses nestling together on
     some scanty ledge, with cliffs rising above them and sinking
     down abruptly below them, the very 'congesta manu præruptis
     oppida saxis' of Virgil's description, which he even then
     called 'antique walls,' because they had been the strongholds
     of the primæval inhabitants of the country, and which are still
     inhabited after a lapse of so many centuries, nothing of the
     stir and movement of other parts of Europe having penetrated
     into these lonely valleys, and tempted the people to quit their
     mountain fastnesses for a more accessible dwelling in the
     plain.

     "I have been led on further than I intended, but I wished to
     give an example of what I meant by a real and lively knowledge
     of geography, which brings the whole character of a country
     before our eyes, and enables us to understand its influence
     upon the social and political condition of its inhabitants. And
     this knowledge, as I said before, is very important to enable
     us to follow clearly the external revolutions of different
     nations, which we want to comprehend before we penetrate to
     what has been passing within."

This introductory discussion is followed by a rapid sketch of the different struggles for power
and independence in Europe during the three last centuries. The general tendency of this period
has been to consolidate severed nations into great kingdoms; but this tendency has been checked
when the growth of any single power has become excessive, by the combined efforts of other
European nations. Spain, France, England, and Austria, all in their turns have excited the
jealousy of their neighbours, and have been attacked by their confederate strength. But in
1793 the peace of Europe was assailed by an enemy still more dangerous and energetic--still
more destructive--we doubt whether in the English language a more vivid description is to be
found of the evil, its progress, and its termination, than Dr Arnold has given in the following
passage:--

     "Ten years afterwards there broke out by far the most alarming
     danger of universal dominion, which had ever threatened Europe.
     The most military people in Europe became engaged in a war for
     their very existence. Invasion on the frontiers, civil war and
     all imaginable horrors raging within, the ordinary relations of
     life went to wreck, and every Frenchman became a soldier. It
     was a multitude numerous as the hosts of Persia, but animated
     by the courage and skill and energy of the old Romans. One
     thing alone was wanting, that which Pyrrhus said the Romans
     wanted, to enable them to conquer the world--a general and a
     ruler like himself. There was wanted a master hand to restore
     and maintain peace at home, and to concentrate and direct the
     immense military resources of France against her foreign
     enemies. And such an one appeared in Napoleon. Pacifying La
     Vendée, receiving back the emigrants, restoring the church,
     remodelling the law, personally absolute, yet carefully
     preserving and maintaining all the great points which the
     nation had won at the Revolution, Napoleon united in himself,
     not only the power, but the whole will of France; and that
     power and will were guided by a genius for war such as Europe
     had never seen since Cæsar. The effect was absolutely magical.
     In November 1799, he was made First Consul; he found France
     humbled by defeats, his Italian conquests lost, his allies
     invaded, his own frontier threatened. He took the field in May
     1800, and in June the whole fortune of the war was changed, and
     Austria driven out of Lombardy by the victory of Marengo. Still
     the flood of the tide rose higher and higher, and every
     successive wave of its advance swept away a kingdom. Earthly
     state has never reached a prouder pinnacle than when Napoleon,
     in June 1812, gathered his army at Dresden--that mighty host,
     unequalled in all time, of 450,000, not men merely, but
     effective soldiers, and there received the homage of subject
     kings. And now, what was the principal adversary of this
     tremendous power? by whom was it checked, and resisted, and put
     down? By none, and by nothing, but the direct and manifest
     interposition of God. I know of no language so well fitted to
     describe that victorious advance to Moscow, and the utter
     humiliation of the retreat, as the language of the prophet with
     respect to the advance and subsequent destruction of the host
     of Sennacherib. 'When they arose early in the morning, behold
     they were all dead corpses,' applies almost literally to that
     memorable night of frost, in which twenty thousand horses
     perished, and the strength of the French army was utterly
     broken. Human instruments, no doubt, were employed in the
     remainder of the work; nor would I deny to Germany and to
     Prussia the glories of the year 1813, nor to England the honour
     of her victories in Spain, or of the crowning victory of
     Waterloo. But at the distance of thirty years, those who lived
     in the time of danger and remember its magnitude, and now
     calmly review what there was in human strength to avert it,
     must acknowledge, I think, beyond all controversy, that the
     deliverance of Europe from the dominion of Napoleon was
     effected neither by Russia, nor by Germany, nor by England, but
     by the hand of God alone."

The question, whether some races of men possess an inherent superiority over others, is mooted
by Dr Arnold, in his dissertation on military science. Without laying down any universal rule,
it may be stated that such a superiority can be predicated of no European nation. Frederick
the Great defeated the French at Rosbach, as easily as Napoleon overcame the Prussians at Jena.
If Marlborough was uniformly successful, William III. was always beaten by Luxembourg, and
the Duke of Cumberland by D'Etrées and Saxe. It seems, therefore, a fair inference, that no
civilized European nation possesses over its neighbours that degree of superiority which greater
genius in the general, or greater discipline in the troops of its antagonists, will not be
sufficient to counteract. The defeat of the Vendéans in France, by the soldiers of the garrison
of Mentz; and the admirable conduct of our own Sepoys under British generals, are, no doubt,
strong instances to show the prodigious importance of systematic discipline. Still, we cannot
quite coincide with Dr Arnold's opinion on this subject. We are quite ready to admit--who,
indeed, for a moment would deny?--in military as well as in all other subjects, the value of
professional attainments and long experience. We cannot, however, consider them superior to
those great qualities of our nature which discipline may regulate and embellish, but which
it can never destroy or supersede. As every man is bound to form his own opinion on religious
matters, though he may not be a priest, every man is obliged to defend his country when invaded,
though he may not be a soldier. Nor can the miseries which such a state of things involves,
furnish any argument against its necessity. All war must be attended with misfortunes, which
freeze the blood and make the soul sick in their contemplation; but these very misfortunes
deter those who wield the reins of empire from appealing wantonly to its determination. The
resistance of Saragossa was not the less glorious, it does not the less fire the heart of every
reader with a holy and passionate enthusiasm, because it was not conducted according to the
strict forms of military tactics, because citizens and even women participated in its fame.
The inextinguishable hatred of the Spanish nation for its oppressor--which wore down the French
armies, which no severities, no violence, no defeat, could subdue--will be, as long as time
shall last, a terrible lesson to ambitious conquerors. They will learn that there is in the
fury of an insulted nation a danger which the most exquisite military combinations cannot remove,
which the most perfectly served artillery cannot sweep away, before which all the bayonets,
and gunpowder, and lines of fortification in the world are useless--and compared with which
the science of the commander is pedantry, and strategy but a word. They will discover that
something more than mechanical power, however great--something more than the skill of the practised
officer, or the instinct of well-trained soldiers, are requisite for success--where every plain
is a Marathon, and every valley a Thermopylæ.

Would to God that the same reproach urged against the Spanish nation--that they defended their
native soil irregularly--that they fought like freemen rather than like soldiers--that they
transgressed the rules of war by defending one side of a street while the artillery of the
enemy, with its thousand mouths, was pouring death upon them from the other--that they struggled
too long, that they surrendered too late, that they died too readily, could have been applied
to Poland--one fearful instance of success would have been wanting to encourage the designs
of despotism!

Some of the rights of war are next considered--that of sacking a town taken by assault, and
of blockading a town defended, not by the inhabitants, but by a military garrison--are next
examined;--in both these cases the penalty falls upon the innocent. The Homeric description
of a town taken by assault, is still applicable to modern warfare:--

     [Greek: andras men kteinoysi, polin de te pyr amathynei
             tekna de t' alloi agoysi, bathyzônoys te gynaikas.]

The unhappy fate of Genoa is thus beautifully related--

     "Some of you, I doubt not, remember Genoa; you have seen that
     queenly city with its streets of palaces, rising tier above
     tier from the water, girdling with the long lines of its bright
     white houses the vast sweep of its harbour, the mouth of which
     is marked by a huge natural mole of rock, crowned by its
     magnificent lighthouse tower. You remember how its white houses
     rose out of a mass of fig and olive and orange trees, the glory
     of its old patrician luxury. You may have observed the
     mountains, behind the town, spotted at intervals by small
     circular low towers; one of which is distinctly conspicuous
     where the ridge of the hills rises to its summit, and hides
     from view all the country behind it. Those towers are the forts
     of the famous lines, which, curiously resembling in shape the
     later Syracusan walls enclosing Epipalæ, converge inland from
     the eastern and western extremities of the city, looking
     down--the western line on the valley of the Polcevera, the
     eastern, on that of the Bisagno--till they meet, as I have
     said, on the summit of the mountains, where the hills cease to
     rise from the sea, and become more or less of a table land,
     running off towards the interior, at the distance, as well as I
     remember, of between two and three miles from the outside of
     the city. Thus a very large open space is enclosed within the
     lines, and Genoa is capable therefore of becoming a vast
     intrenched camp, holding not so much a garrison as an army. In
     the autumn of 1799, the Austrians had driven the French out of
     Lombardy and Piedmont; their last victory of Fossano or Genola
     had won the fortress of Coni or Cunco, close under the Alps,
     and at the very extremity of the plain of the Po; the French
     clung to Italy only by their hold of the Riviera of Genoa--the
     narrow strip of coast between the Apennines and the sea, which
     extends from the frontiers of France almost to the mouth of the
     Arno. Hither the remains of the French force were collected,
     commanded by General Massena; and the point of chief importance
     to his defence was the city of Genoa. Napoleon had just
     returned from Egypt, and was become First Consul; but he could
     not be expected to take the field till the following spring,
     and till then Massena was hopeless of relief from
     without--every thing was to depend on his own pertinacity. The
     strength of his army made it impossible to force it in such a
     position as Genoa; but its very numbers, added to the
     population of a great city, held out to the enemy a hope of
     reducing it by famine; and as Genoa derives most of its
     supplies by sea, Lord Keith, the British naval
     commander-in-chief in the Mediterranean, lent the assistance of
     his naval force to the Austrians; and, by the vigilance of his
     cruizers, the whole coasting trade right and left along the
     Riviera, was effectually cut off. It is not at once that the
     inhabitants of a great city, accustomed to the daily sight of
     well-stored shops and an abundant market, begin to realize the
     idea of scarcity; or that the wealthy classes of society, who
     have never known any other state than one of abundance and
     luxury, begin seriously to conceive of famine. But the shops
     were emptied; and the storehouses began to be drawn upon; and
     no fresh supply, or hope of supply, appeared. The French general
     pitied the distresses of the people; but the lives and strength
     of his garrison seemed to him more important than the lives of
     the Genoese, and such provisions as remained were reserved, in
     the first place, for the French army. Scarcity became utter
     want, and want became famine. In the most gorgeous palaces of
     that gorgeous city, no less than in the humblest tenements of
     its humblest poor, death was busy; not the momentary death of
     battle or massacre, nor the speedy death of pestilence, but the
     lingering and most miserable death of famine. Infants died
     before their parents' eyes, husbands and wives lay down to
     expire together. A man whom I saw at Genoa in 1825, told me,
     that his father and two of his brothers had been starved to
     death in this fatal siege. So it went on, till in the month of
     June, when Napoleon had already descended from the Alps into
     the plain of Lombardy, the misery became unendurable, and
     Massena surrendered. But before he did so, twenty thousand
     innocent persons, old and young, women and children, had died
     by the most horrible of deaths which humanity can endure. Other
     horrors which occurred besides during this blockade, I pass
     over; the agonizing death of twenty thousand innocent and
     helpless persons requires nothing to be added to it.

     "Now, is it right that such a tragedy as this should take
     place, and that the laws of war should be supposed to justify
     the authors of it? Conceive having been an officer in Lord
     Keith's squadron at that time, and being employed in stopping
     the food which was being brought for the relief of such misery.
     For the thing was done deliberately; the helplessness of the
     Genoese was known; their distress was known; it was known that
     they could not force Massena to surrender; it was known that
     they were dying daily by hundreds, yet week after week, and
     month after month, did the British ships of war keep their iron
     watch along all the coast; no vessel nor boat laden with any
     article of provision could escape their vigilance. One cannot
     but be thankful that Nelson was spared from commanding at this
     horrible blockade of Genoa.

