The trumpeter was now calling every slumberer to arms, and in a few moments the entire garrison
was ready for action. The cries of the men for help and the crashing of the bolos and spears
could be heard in the calmness of the dark stilly night. There was no time for idle thoughts,
no time to be wasted, for it was evident from their appealing cries that the members of outpost
No. 4 had been attacked by the blood-thirsty Moros.

Lieut. Bickham, commanding Company "F," proceeded in all haste to cross the deep ravine and
re-inforce the brave men, who, though outnumbered by a large majority, were nevertheless fighting
desperately for their lives.

They arrived on the scene too late to prevent the massacre and death of their fallen comrades,
for the savages had by this time made well their escape, after performing one of the most savage,
most treacherous and most blood-curdling deeds, that has ever hitherto been recorded in the
pages of bloody history.

Not content with killing their victims, they had cut them with their bolos and long spears,
until their bodies were beyond recognition. The killed were Sergeant Foley and Pvt. Carey of
Co. "G," 27th U. S. Infantry, men whose gallantry, kindness, bravery, and social disposition
had won for them the admiration of not only the members of their own company, but of everybody
who knew them.

The wounded were Pvts. VanDorn and Christianson, also of Co. "G."

A BRAVE STAND.

Perhaps never in the history of battles and wars did men fight with such grim determination
and fearlessness in the very face of death, as did VanDorn and Christianson of Co. "G." Having
fallen to the ground from loss of blood and exhaustion, they still bravely clung with untiring
tenacity to their rifles and never once flinched or even thought of retreating to a place of
safety until the re-inforcements had arrived on the bloody scene and the natives had vanished
in the underbrush. An investigation ensued which disclosed the fact that the attacking parties
belonged to the tribes of Datto Amay Grar.

Immediately afterwards what was to be the last ultimatum was issued to the Moros of the Lake
region, particularly to the Sultan of Bacolod and the Sultan of Maciu demanding, rigidly, an
explanation regarding the recent attacks upon the Americans, as well as the immediate surrender
of the murderers in their tribes who were guilty of committing various acts of injustice and
cruelty since the historical battle of May 2.

Their replies were, as usual, of a defiant, insolent, and sullen nature.

The Americans, seeing that the restoration of peace in the island of Mindanao could not be
brought about by fair and honorable means, decided to administer a lesson to them that they
would not very readily forget.

HOSTILITIES RENEWED.

An expedition was organized on short notice, commanded by Capt. J. J. Pershing, of the 15th
Regiment of Cavalry, a man whose never failing courage, valor, and ability as an officer and
commander is unexcelled in the American Army.

Every preparation was made for the coming events, and on September 17, at midnight, what was
known as Captain Pershing's expedition left Camp Vicars under cover of darkness and proceeded
through rugged trails to Maciu's strongholds and neighboring principalities.

The expedition consisted of Companies "F," "G," "C," and "M" of the 27th Infantry; Troop "L"
15th Regiment of Cavalry; and the 25th Battery of Field Artillery.

On the morning of the 18th, as the first refulgent beams of "Old Sol" had begun to illuminate
the eastern horizon, the column had reached and halted close by Fort Gauan, and ere another
hour had elapsed the entire fortification was surrounded by our troops.

The 25th Battery had halted directly in front of, and about 300 yards from, the fort, while
companies "M" and "F," "G" and "C" had formed skirmish lines on the left and right of the fort.
The command was given for the first shot to be fired and everybody waited in silent expectancy
for the outcome. In an instant there was a flash, and "bang" went the projectile with lightning
velocity, hitting the outer breastworks of the enclosure, from which rose vast clouds of smoke
and fragments.

The firing from the fort was rapid at first, but gradually diminished as the outer bombardment
continued, and finally ceased altogether, for the Artillery onslaught had been terrible while
it lasted, and nothing remained of that once impregnable fortress save a few shattered walls,
with here and there the mangled corpse of a dead Moro.

The day was gradually drawing to a close, which made it necessary for us to establish a temporary
camp for the night.

This was done, and very fortunately, adjacent to a small river, which proved to be a great
convenience to both men and animals.

Natives fired frequently into the midst of the camp, but fortunately without any serious casualty
to the Americans. The first faint glimmer of dawn that broke over the eastern hill-tops found
us again in readiness and, after partaking of a hurried breakfast, we broke camp and again
took up the trail, this time in the direction of Bayubao.

BAYUBAO VANQUISHED.

The trails were, in a great many places, almost impassable, making marching with equipments
very laborious. However, we arrived at Bayubao about 2 p.m. and rested for refreshments on
the top of a high hill, which over-looked the fort and the unruffled waters of Lake Lanao.

We had not been long in the enjoyment of our much needed rest, when the natives, who were until
then concealed in the brush, poured a volley into our midst. The entire column was immediately
summoned to action, and a grander sight could not be witnessed than to see that body of brave
and disciplined soldiers taking their respective places and falling into line for action.

The Battery was brought into action on the hill-top, with the guns carefully trained on the
fort by reliable and experienced marksmen, then a noise arose which seemed to echo back from
the very firmaments as if the giant and mighty mountains had left their very sockets and were
tumbling in a confused mass into the deep waters of the lake below.

The Battery had cut loose and "let her go," and projectile after projectile was sent from the
guns on the hill-top "straight home" and into the very midst of the fort, enveloping everything
for a moment in clouds of smoke and flying fragments, which was almost suffocating.

Oh! what a strange feeling influences the soldier when he hears the first "Boom" of a cannon,
for full well he knows that it is only a stepping stone leading to the midst of the fray.

The natives returned the fire slowly but steadily, and in a manner that was creditable, for
they were not only taken by surprise but were at a critical disadvantage owing to the elevation.
Still the firing kept up and more than one dark-skinned foeman could be seen falling, rifle
in hand, lifeless on the green sward.

They were now growing confused, ungovernable, and were firing recklessly like savage maniacs
at the unflinching column of brave American soldiers, who were cooly aiming and firing at the
commands of the valiant officers whenever a well directed shot was to be had. It now appeared
evident that before this rain of bullets from the Infantry and the bursting of shrapnel from
the Artillery they could not withstand much longer, and our position was such that to hit us
at such a range and elevation was almost impossible.

Again the Battery opened up with one last and mighty sheet of solid shot and shrapnel, which
made the very walls tremble and shake like the leaves of a forest before a hurricane, and then
deathlike shrieks could be heard from within, the stout walls had crumbled to a thousand atoms,
and the Sultan of Bayubao, with many of his tribesmen, had fallen to rise no more.

IN SIGHT OF MACIU.

But was this to be our last battle with the Moros? Was this to be our last fight in the desolate
island of Mindanao? No! No! far from it. There yet remained another, and the stumbling block
of them all, who was at this time bidding defiance to all invaders, in his fort across the
lake, where we could see, from our present position, the red flags of battle waving before
the gentle zephyrs of the orient.

This was the Sultan of Maciu, Maciu the warlike, who had hitherto held his stronghold and expansive
territories with creditable success for centuries against even the haughty Spanish soldiers.
But his day of gloom was fast approaching, when he and his clan of bolomen would be compelled
to submit to the sons of America, as will be seen by the ensuing pages.

Soon after Fort Bayubao had been taken the column pressed onwards, down the rugged slope of
the trail, leading into the fort, and here, being dust-stained, weary, and footsore, we were
glad to encamp for the night. But only a few of us slept, for the Moros delivered a steady
fire on us from the surrounding brush through the night.

The welcomed morning broke bright and clear over the waters of Lake Lanao, and the soldiers
of "Columbia" awoke from a dreamy and restless slumber at the first notes of the bugle. Preparations
for the attack on the Sultan of Maciu were immediately begun, but with little or no success,
as the trail leading through the thickly wooded flats was blocked in such a way that it was
an impossibility for even the Infantry to force their way through.

The Moros, having seen the column advancing on them, set to work to block the trail leading
from Bayubao to the Maciu fortress, thinking that the Americans might on reaching this now
impassable entrance, decide to return again to Camp Vicars after failing to reach the much
talked of stronghold.

FOOD SUPPLY EXHAUSTED.

Seeing that all else had failed, the Americans began to construct rude rafts with which to
cross an arm of the lake which separated them from the Maciu territories. They succeeded in
building one in which a detachment of Companies "C" and "M" attempted to cross under a continued
fire from the Moros, who were entrenched on the opposite side.

They kept on, however, seemingly regardless of the rain of bullets until, after a sharp and
lively encounter with the enemy, they found it would be impossible to make a landing, so decided
to return, but not before they had succeeded in driving the Moros back.

This was the 22nd day of September, we were now five days on the trail in pursuit of the Moros,
but had not as yet begun to show any signs of exhaustion from the march or exposure.

It was now evident that our supply of provisions could not last much longer, and in consideration
of the fact that the trail, now blocked by the Moros, should be re-opened before we could reach
Maciu, it was deemed advisable by Captain Pershing to return to Camp Vicars, in order to rest
the troops and to procure more rations.

Consequently on the morning of the 23rd, the column began the long march from the Maciu and
Sauir territory to the Camp, arriving in good military order at 7 p.m. same date, with no loss
to the Americans.

Lines on the Death of Sergeant Foley and Private Carey, Company G, 27th Infantry.

(By John J. Reidy.)

    Here, cold in their graves, near the spot where they fell,
      In the darkness of night's dismal gloom,
    Rest two soldiers whose valor could not be excelled,
      Slumbering in their desolate tombs.

    Far away from their kindred they are sleeping to-day
      In Mindanao's untrodden plains,
    Where their comrades have laid them to moulder away
      Into dust, in their cold silent graves.

    By Camp Vicars they fought at the dead hour of night
      Outnumbered by the savages wild;
    Until they fell, overpowered, on the sward at the feet
      Of their foemen, where like soldiers they died.

    Perhaps far away in their own native land,
      In the homes of their childhood so dear,
    Are their mothers awaiting to grasp their kind hands--
      But alas! they shall wait many years.

    For their loved ones will never return again
      To greet them through life's pleasant way,
    For they are laying in the grass-covered graves where they fell,
      And are sleeping long ages away.

    But though death has overtaken those heroes so brave
      Who fell for their Country's fame,
    Yet their memory shall always live on the breasts
      Of their comrades, whom they perished to save.

THE BATTLE OF MACIU.

A MUCH NEEDED REST.

The troops were given five days in which to rest and recuperate, for the reader can easily
imagine the hardships, privations, and sufferings which are undergone by soldiers while on
the march, especially where there are no roads of any description, save the narrow, rugged,
and, in many places, impassable trails, which are met with all through the island of Mindanao.

Therefore it was practically necessary that, after six days of continual marching through the
thick brush of this island, they should be given ample time in which to attain that standard
of physique which is the most characteristic mark of the American soldier.

It was the morning of the 28th of September, the bright sun had risen gorgeously over the white
tented plain, the azure blue sky was now clear, save a few clouds that still rested lazily
on the hill-tops, and all nature's splendors and attractions were everywhere to be seen.

To the inexperienced observer it would seem that the Moros and Americans were living together
in happy unison with each other in this, the most remote of American garrisons. But this was
not so, for ere another hour had dragged itself lazily into the dim, misty past, the sons of
fair Columbia were in complete readiness to march from the camp over many a weary mile to measure
the cold steel with the defiant, haughty, and semi-savage Sultan of Maciu, and proud to state,
under command of Captain John J. Pershing, to whom is justly attributed the success, the achievements,
and all conquering abilities of the brave soldiers under his command at Camp Vicars.

THE EXPEDITION STARTS.

The expedition is complete and after being inspected by the Commanding General is not only
complimented by him on their general uniformity and appearances, but are also pronounced fit
to compete with the most sanguineous and daring adversary.

At 8 a.m. the command "Forward March" was heard by every anxious soldier who was to be a participant
in the coming event, and amid the cheers, farewells, and good wishes of our comrades, we advanced
in single file from the camp over the now well known trail leading to the territories of the
Sultan of Maciu.

The expedition was composed of the same troops as that of the preceding campaign, except in
addition there was Troop "A," 15th Cavalry.

The men were by this time beginning to grow accustomed to this singular style of marching from
previous experiences, and that, together with the impatient anxiety they had to meet Maciu's
tribe in battle, added new strength and vigor to every man as onward they pressed over high
hills, through deep ravines and swift-flowing rivers until, with the fire of military and true
national determination written on every face, the column arrived and halted once again on the
hill-top overlooking the now fallen stronghold of Bayubao with which the reader is already
familiar.

ENCAMPED FOR THE NIGHT.

No time was lost until we were again encamped at the foot of the hill about 100 yards from
the lake shore. We immediately set to work to cook our much needed supper, which was devoured
greedily by every dust-stained warrior of the command, regardless of the rules of etiquette,
after which we sought a "soft spot" on nature's expansive bed, in which to lay our weary bones
for the night.

But even a soldier's life has, despite its many seemingly insurmountable obstacles, many a
romantic charm, for who would not like to lay gently upon the lap of earth with the soft side
of a haversack for a pillow, and the green foliage of the graceful bamboo trees for a canopy,
and be lulled to sleep by the wild rustling of the leaves wafted to and fro before the gentle
zephyrs. Everything remained at a peaceable standard during the night with nothing to break
the "chain of silence," save the rippling of the waters in the lake below.

But even a sleep such as this, under such unusual and unaccommodating circumstances, has an
unwelcomed limit, and ours came with the first streaks of grey dawn that broke through our
foliaged canopied beds, and again each soldier of American loyalty began to kindle his fire,
with which to cook his breakfast, for on such occasions as this each soldier is his own cook,
waiter, and dishwasher combined.

Soon after breakfast the real work of opening the trail began, rifles were quickly supplanted
by shovels, picks and axes, and in a very few moments every soldier was equipped with tools,
which they began to use with unanimous energy and willingness during the greater part of the
day. And it was truly wonderful to see those brave soldiers working untiringly, chopping heavy
trees, digging and filling deep ravines, leveling stout barricades, all working diligently
for that one aim which was to be the downfall of Maciu.

This work was kept up unceasingly until the passage or trail was opened to the Maciu peninsula,
a distance of two miles. It was the afternoon of the second day, which was the 30th of September,
before we finally reached our destination, where there was an unexpected surprise in store for us.

FIRED UPON.

The natives, having known that our object was to cross through this skirt of woodland, had
awaited our arrival on the opposite side. And as soon as the first file of the "advance guard"
passed from the woods into the open plain beyond, they met with a storm of bullets from the
enemy. They then moved forward into the open beyond as quickly as possible, after which they
unanimously returned the enemy's fire. The firing was fast, and not without effect, for ere
the gloom of night began to descend upon us, many a native of Mindanao had sacrificed his semi-barbarous
life for his freedom.

It now began to grow dark, and fearing lest we should be overtaken by the shadows of night
in the dense woods, Captain Pershing gave orders to the column to return to Bayubao for the night.

The trail, our most important obstruction, was now cleared and it was with impatience and sleepless
expectancy we awaited the first glimmer of dawn. At last came the day when the true, fearless
soldiers were to march against Maciu's tribe. We shared together a hurried breakfast and about
7 a.m. we advanced under the cool shadows of the interwoven foliage, over many a rough boulder,
until after two hours of rough marching we arrived in the open space beyond the woods.

We had not marched over three-hundred yards of this new territory when the natives began firing
at the head of the column, but without effect, for as soon as the smoke from their rifles could
be seen, a volley was fired at them by the soldiers. In a few moments we had gained the summit
of the hill, and here we halted to await the arrival of the Battery, which was some distance
in the rear, for not more than 400 yards in front of the skirmish line was a fort from which
shots were fired at regular and frequent intervals. We did not return the fire this time, knowing
as we did that rifle fire was of no avail against a fortification such as this proved itself to be.

The Battery soon arrived, and, in less time than it takes to relate it, they were ready for
action, being about 400 yards from the fort. As soon as the first shot from the Artillery was
fired the Moros began to abandon the fort and were going in the direction of Maciu. The Infantry
had formed a semi-circular skirmish line around the stronghold and now, the Battery having
ceased firing, they began to move forward, closing around the fort. At last they reached it
and after scaling its high walls, they found that the greater part of its inmates had fled,
taking their arms with them. The soldiers soon began to destroy the fort, and in a very few
moments it was reduced to ashes.

The column again took up the trail leading towards the lake front destroying, as they went,
everything in the shape of forts or strongholds which they encountered, and from which they
had been fired upon.

Perhaps the reader may think or imagine our dealings with the Moros of the Lake region to be
of a cruel nature. To this I can only state that having been amongst them since the origin
of hostilities in the island of Mindanao, up to the present date, and having become rather
familiar with their treachery and cruelties to American soldiers, wherever they could get a
chance, I think as far as my judgment is concerned that they have been given a lesson which,
to say the least, they richly deserve.

We captured some five or six minor fortifications during this day, and towards evening we proceeded
towards the lake front, to encamp for the ensuing night, for it was an absolute necessity to
procure water for the men and horses, as quickly as possible.

That night was spent in thought, and in anticipation of the doings of the approaching day,
for it was the day designated for the capture of the Maciu stronghold. We broke camp at an
early hour and at 7 a.m. we were again on the march, this time in a new direction. We had not
been marching over two hours when the word was quietly passed along the line that the Maciu
stronghold was in sight.

We now began to think more seriously as we were nearing our long looked for destination, for
well we knew that the Moros, having consolidated here were determined to fight to the last.

We were, however, perfectly willing and ready to face Maciu and his tribesmen in open combat,
and meet whatever fate awaited us, without a murmur.

The column was ordered to deploy right and left in skirmish line, and advance towards the fort,
in order that they could more easily and readily command a view of the outer surroundings of
the enclosure, and prevent, if possible, the escape of any of the blood-thirsty Moros whose
wild cries we could now hear within.

The Battery, having halted in front of the fort, was immediately brought into action. Then
suddenly a deafening noise was heard by all, the noise which, though too familiar to many of
us, was nevertheless to make even a brave soldier tremble. The Artillery had opened up on the
left. "Boom! Boom!!" went the cannons, and a rain of solid shot and shrapnel was hurled at
the fort, and for a space of a moment nothing could be seen but the flying fragments, and splinters
of bamboo and debris hurled high in the air.

The clouds of smoke soon cleared away and then something happened unexpectedly, and which surprised
every American soldier in that vicinity. A thick, black volume of smoke arose in the direction
of the fortress, then a flash, and a deafening noise, as if the merciless waves of the Pacific
were beating against the granite ribbed cliffs.

They had replied to our firing. Boom! went the lantacas, followed by a volley from the rifles,
and then it behoved every true American to "lay low" for a few moments.

It now looked as if our expectations were going to be fulfilled to the last. There was a moment
of silence and again the Battery opened up in real earnest, and a more exciting scene could
not be witnessed than to see the havoc wrought on that fort by the guns. Bang! Bang!! went
the shots in rapid succession, and bamboo, rocks, and flying fragments were hurled hundreds
of feet in every direction, but still the Moros kept firing and crying in wild religious ecstasy
to their Mohammedan God.

Captain Pershing, who had been coolly riding about the fort to Artillery, Infantry, and Cavalry,
now decided to order two of the guns brought to the right of the fort. This was done immediately
and from right and left they cut loose, determined to accomplish their aim.

But instead of this, they were surprised, when the Moros poured a withering fire at them and
crude lead balls and fragments of iron were dropping in the midst of the troops.

It was now 2 p.m. and it looked as if Maciu's stronghold was impregnable indeed, for we had
been firing steadily since 9 a.m. and nothing of importance had, as yet, been accomplished.

The Battery now moved towards the fort from both sides, until they were within fifty yards
of them, and it may be well to mention that it never has been known in the history of battles
where Artillery has engaged an enemy at so short a range. They had now taken up their new positions
and began to fire at the fort from both sides, this time with great effect. But still the Moros
remained obstinate to the last singing wildly their religious songs to their God "Allah" in
the very midst of the struggle.

The day was now drawing to a close and yet the firing kept on. However, at 4 p.m. the command
"cease firing" was given, and with that ended that day's struggle for us, but not for the natives,
for they, thinking that the Americans were about to abandon the fort at the approach of night,
still kept up the firing. But in this they were mistaken, for instead of returning to the camp,
the Americans still held their position, closing in gradually on the fort, in order to prevent
the escape of any of the Moros during the ensuing night.

The commanding officer, seeing that they were determined to hold out until the bitter end,
now issued orders for the construction of scaling ladders with which to gain admittance to
the fort. Work was immediately begun on them but they were destined never to be used for that
purpose at least, for about midnight the Moros, finding that we were still determined to hold
our positions, decided to attempt an escape from the enclosure.

The night was unusually dark, and the clouds were hanging low over the lake, rendering it almost
impossible to see or distinguish an object at a greater distance than fifty feet. The Americans
had anticipated their escape, and consequently were in constant readiness at all times during
the night. Then suddenly a shot was heard which had been fired by some vigilant sentinel on
guard, then another, and another.

It now became evident that they had charged the lines and were making a dash for liberty. In
an instant every soldier was on the alert. They kept on coming, however, seemingly regardless
of death or the rain of bullets. But few of them escaped or even lived to tell the tale, for
as fast as they left the fort they were being shot down by a constant stream of fire from the
Infantry, and when the morning dawned it was found that the Sultan of Maciu, with many another
leader and tribesman, had fallen, never to breathe again.

