At Challons sur la Soane, (for there is another town of the same name in Champaigne) I had
the honor of a visit from Mons. le Baron Shortall, a gentleman of an ancient family, rather
in distress at this time, by being kept out of six and thirty thousand a year, his legal property
in Ireland; but as the Baron made his visit ala-mode de capuchin Friar, without knocking, and
when only the female part of my family were in the apartment, he was dismissed rather abruptly
for a man of his high rank and great fortune in expectation. This dismission, however, did
not dismay him; he rallied again, with the reinforcement of Madame la Baroness, daughter, as
he positively affirmed, of Mons. le Prince de Monaco; but as I had forbad his being shewn up,
he desired me to come down, a summons curiosity induced me to obey. Never, surely, were two
people of fashion in a more pitiable plight! he was in a russet brown black suit of cloaths;
Madame la Baroness in much the same colour, wrapt up in a tattered black silk capuchin; and
I knew not which to admire most, their folly or their impudence; for surely never did an adventurer
set out with less capabilities about him; his whole story was so flagrant a fib, that in spite
of the very respectable certificates of My Lord Mayor, John Wilkes, and Mr. Alderman Bull,
I was obliged to tell him plainly, that I did not believe him to be a gentleman, nor his wife
to be a relation of the Prince of Monaco. All this he took in good part, and then assured me
they were both very hungry, and without meat or money; I therefore ordered a dinner at twenty
sols a head; and, as I sat by while they eat it, I had reason to believe that he told me one
plain truth, for in truth they eat as if they had never eaten before. After dinner the Baron
did me the honour to consult with me how he should get down to Lyons? I recommended to him
to proceed by water; but, said he, my dear Sir, I have no money;--an evil I did not chuse to
redress; and, after several unsuccessful attempts at my purse, and some at my person,--he whispered
me that even six livres would be acceptable; but I held out, and got off, by proposing that
the Baroness should write a letter to the Prince her father, to whom I had the honour to be
known, and that I would carry him the letter, and enforce their prayer, by making it my own.
This measure she instantly complied with, and addressed her father adorable Prince; but concluded
it with a name which could not belong to her either as maid, wife, or widow. I remarked this
to the Baron, who acknowledged at once the mistake, said she had signed a false name, and she
should write it over again; but when I observed to him that, as the Prince knew the handwriting
of his own dear child, and as the name of women is often varying by marriage, or miscarriage,
it was all one: to this he agreed; and I brought off the letter, and my purse too, for forty
sols; yet there was so much falshood, folly, and simplicity in this simple pair of adventurers,
that I sorely repented I did not give them their passage in the coche d'eau to Lyons; for he
could not speak a word of French, nor Madame la Baroness a word of English; and the only insignia
of distinction between them, was, a vast clumsy brass-hilted sword which the Baron, instead
of wearing at his side, held up at his nose, like a Physician's gold-headed cane.--When I took
my leave of this Sir James Shortall, (for he owned at last he was only a Baronet) he promised
to meet me next time dressed in his blue and silver.

I verily believe my Irish adventurer at Perpignan, is a gentleman, and therefore I relieved
him; I am thoroughly persuaded my Challons adventurer is not, yet perhaps he was a real object
of charity, and his true tale would have produced him better success than his borrowed story.
Sir James was about sixty, Lady Shortall about fifty.--Sir James too had a pretty large property
in America, and would have visited his estates on that continent, had I not informed him of
the present unhappy differences now subsisting between that and the mother country, of which
he had not heard a single syllable.

After having said thus much, I think I must treat you with a copy of Lady Shortall's letter,
a name very applicable to their unhappy situation, for they did indeed seem short of every
thing;--so here it is, verbatim et literatim:

"Monsieur Thickness gentilhomme anglaise

"Adorable preince de monaco que tout mordonne deme, lise au de fus de cette lette le non deun
digne homme qui me randu ser visse, je suis malade, le convan; serois preferable a mon bouneur
je veux sepandant sauve non marij mais je me meure tre seve mon derinier soupire, je ne le
doit qua vous.

  "JULIE BARONNE DE CHATTERRE.
  le 18 May 1776."

"A sont altess ele preince de Monaco, dans sont hautelle rue de Vareinne a Paris."

LETTER XLIX.

From Challons to Bonne, is five leagues. Bonne is a good town, well walled-in, pleasantly situated,
and remarkable for an excellent and well-conducted Hospital, where the poor sick are received
gratis, without distinction, and where the rich sick are accommodated with nurses, physicians,
medicines, food, and lodging, with every assistance that can be wanted, for four livres a day.
The apartments in which the poor are received, are so perfectly clean and sweet, that they
are fit for people of any condition; but those provided for the better sort, are indeed sumptuously
furnished. The women who act as nurses, are of a religious order, and wear a particular, decent,
and uniform habit, to which their modest deportment exactly coincides; yet most of them are
young, and many of them very beautiful.

Between these two towns we met an English servant, in a rich laced livery, conducting, behind
a post-chaise, a large quantity of baggage; and soon after, a second servant, in the same uniform;
this excited our curiosity, and we impatiently proceeded, in hopes of meeting the equipage,
which it was natural to expect would soon follow; instead of which, it was an old English four-wheel
chaise, the contents of which were buckled close up behind a pair of dirty leather curtains;
and on the coach-box sat, by the side of the driver, a man who had the appearance of an English
farmer. This contrast rather increased than lessened our curiosity; and, therefore, at Bonne,
I made some enquiry about them of the post-master; who told me they came in, and set off, separately,
just as I had met them; but that one servant paid for the horses to all the carriages, and
that the woman behind the curtain, according to custom, did not chuse to shew herself. Just
as I was returning with this blind account, an English servant, who I had not perceived, but
who stood near, told me, he was sure as how it was either the Duchess of Kingston or Mrs Rudd,
for that he seed her very plain. I was much surprized at finding an Englishman so near me;
and the singularity of the man's observation had a very forcible effect upon me. When the mirth
which it unavoidably occasioned, was a little subsided, I could not help correcting, in gentle
terms, (though I was otherwise glad to see even an English footman so far from English land)
a man in his station for speaking of people of high rank with so much indecent levity, and
then told him, that there was no such person living as the Duchess of Kingston, but that it
was probable the Lady he thought he had seen might be Lady Bristol; that there was not however,
the least resemblance between the person of her Ladyship and the other Lady he had mentioned,
the latter being young, thin, and rather handsome; whereas Lady Bristol was very fat, and advanced
in years; I therefore suspected, I told him, that he had confounded the trials of those two
Ladies, and fancied he saw a likeness in their persons, by an association of ideas; but in
reality, there was as much difference in their crimes as in their persons. Crimes! did I say?
that is an improper expression, because I am informed Mrs. Rudd has been acquitted; but that,
if the foreign papers might be relied on, Lady Bristol had been found guilty of BIGAMY: But
as he seemed not to understand what I meant by Bigamy, or the association of ideas, I was unavoidably
led into a conversation, and explanation, with this young man; which nothing but my pride,
and his ignorance, could justify; but as the fellow was overjoyed to see me, I could not help
giving him something to drink, and with it a caution never to speak of people of high rank
and condition, even behind their backs, but under their proper names or titles, and with decency
and respect: he then begged my pardon, and assured me, if he had known that either of the Ladies
had been a friend of mine, he would not have coupled them so improperly together; and I am
thoroughly convinced, the man left me with a resolution, never to hazard a conjecture without
a better foundation than that he started to me, and which I rather believe he hit off extempore,
to speak to me, and shew himself my countryman, than from really suspecting that the woman
behind the curtain was either Lady Bristol, or Mrs. Rudd; though I was inclined to think it
very probable, for I had seen Lord Bristol on his way through Lyons from Italy to England,
and had been informed, Lady Bristol was then on her road to Italy; in which case, I, like the
footman, had my conjectures, and accounted for the leather curtains being so closely buckled to.

These are trifling remarks, you will say; but if a sign-painter can paint only a bear, those
who employ him must have a bear for their sign; nevertheless, we have all a certain curiosity
to know even the most trifling actions, or movements of people, who by their virtues or vices,
especially if they are people of rank or condition, have occasioned much talk in the world;
and therefore, ridiculous as this incident is, yet as we have long known one of the Ladies,
and often admired both, I could not let either one or the other pass me unnoticed, on a road
too, where even an English Duchess (if she would own the truth) would feel a secret delight
in meeting of a Hyde-park-corner groom.

I have already mentioned what partiality and degree of notice, countrymen take of each other
when they meet far from home. That notice is always in proportion to the distance. Had my Bonne
footman spoke of Lady Bristol, or Mrs. Rudd, in such free terms as how he seed 'em, &c. &c.
at Hyde-park-corner, or in Tyburn-road, I should have knocked him down with the but end of
my whip; but at Bonne (five hundred miles from either of those places) he and I were quatre
cousins; and I could not help treating him with a bottle of vin de pais.

LETTER L.

From Bonne we intended to have taken the high road to Dijon; but being informed that there
was another, though not much frequented, by way of Autun, and that that town, which was a Roman
colony, still contained many curious monuments worthy of notice, we pursued the latter, which
twisted in between a vast variety of small, but fertile valleys, watered with brooks, bounded
by romantic hills, and some high mountains, most of which were covered with vines, which did
produce the most delicious red wine in the world; I say did produce, for the high gout and
flavour of the Burgundy grape has for many years failed, and perhaps so as never to return
again. We, however, missed the road to Autun, and, after four leagues' journey through a most
delightful country, we arrived at a miserable auberge in a dirty village called Yozy, which
stands upon the margin of a large forest, in which, some years since, the diligence from Lyons
to Paris was attacked by a banditti, and the whole party of travellers were murdered: ever
since that fatal day, a guard of the Marechaussee always escort the diligence through this
deep and dreadful forest, (so they called it), and we were persuaded it was right to take a
couple of the Marechaussee, and did so; but as we found the forest by no means so long, deep,
or dreadful, as it had been represented, we suspected that the advice given us, was more for
the sake of the men who guarded us, than from any regard to us, two men could have made no
great resistance against a banditti; and a single man would hardly have meddled with us.

The next day we passed thro' Arnay-le-Duc, a pretty country village, three leagues from Yozy,
and it being their annual fair-day, we had an opportunity of seeing all the peasantry, dressed
in their best, and much chearfulness, not only in the town, but upon the road before we arrived,
and after we passed it. Amongst the rest of the company, were a bear and a monkey, or rather
what Buffon calls the maggot. I desired the shew-man to permit my maggot, as he was the least,
the youngest, and the stranger, to pay a visit to Mons. Maggot, the elder, who embraced the
young gentleman in a manner which astonished and delighted every body, myself only excepted;
but as my young gentleman seemed totally indifferent about the old one, I suspected he had
really met his father, and I could not help moralizing a little.

From Arnay-le-Duc we passed through Maupas, Salou, Rouvray, Quisse la forge, and Vermanton
to Auxerre, the town where the French nobleman was said to live, whom Dr. Smollett treated
so very roughly, and who, in return, was so polite as to help to tie the Doctor's baggage behind
his coach!

About a quarter of a mile without this town, stands a royal convent, richly endowed, and delightfully
situated; the walls of which take in near twenty acres of land, well planted on the banks of
a river; and here I left my two daughters, to perfect themselves in the French language, as
there was not one person within the convent, nor that I could find, within the town, who could
speak a word of English. And here I must not omit to tell you, how much I was overcome with
the generosity of this virtuous, and I must add amiable, society of religieux. Upon my first
inquiry about their price for board, lodging, washing, cloaths, and in short, every thing the
children did, or might want, they required a sum much beyond the limits of my scanty income
to give; but before we left them, they became acquainted with some circumstances, which induced
them to express their concern that the price I had offered (not half what they had demanded)
could not be taken. We therefore retired, and had almost fixed the children in a cheaper convent,
but much inferior in all respects, within the town, when we received a polite letter from the
Lady Abbess, to say, that after consulting with her sister-hood, they had come to a resolution
to take the children at our own price, rather than not shew how much they wished to oblige
us. Upon this occasion, we were all admitted within the walls of the convent; and I had the
pleasure of seeing my two daughters joined to an elegant troop of about forty genteel children,
and of leaving them under the care of the same number of religieux. And yet these good people
knew nothing of us, but what we ourselves communicated to them, not being known, nor knowing
any person in the town.--The Lady-Abbess of this convent is a woman of high rank, about twenty-four
years of age, and possesses as large a share of beauty as any reasonable woman, even on the
outside of a convent, could wish for.

Auxerre is a good town, pleasantly situated, and in a plentiful and cheap country.

From Auxerre to Ioigni is five leagues. The Petit bel Vue on the banks of the river is very
pleasantly situated, but a dreadful one within side, in every respect, being a mixture of dirt,
ignorance, and imposition; but it is the only inn for travellers, and therefore travellers
should avoid it. In order to put my old hostess in good humour, I called early for a bottle
of Champaigne; and in order to put me into a bad humour, she charged me the next day for two;
but I charged her with Mons. Le Connetable, who behaved like a gentleman, though I think he
was only a marchand de tonneau: but then he was a wine not beer cooper, who hooped the old
Lady's barrel.

Where-ever I was ill-used or imposed upon, I always sent a pretty heavy packet by the post,
after I had run down a hundred miles or two, by way of draw-back, upon my host, and recompence
to the King's high road; for in France,

    "Like the Quakers' by-way,
    'Tis plain without turnpikes, so
       nothing to pay"

An old witch, who had half starved us at Montpellier, for want of provisions, when we went,
and for want of fire to dry us, when we came back, left a piece of candle in my budget, which
I did not omit to return by the post, well packed up, lest it should grease other packets of
more importance, by riding an hundred leagues; besides this it was accompanied by a very civil
letter of advice, under another cover.

LETTER LI.

The next town of any note is Sens, a large, ragged, ancient city; but adorned with a most noble
Gothic cathedral, more magnificent than even that of Rheims, and well worthy of the notice
of strangers; it is said to have been built by the English: With the relicks and custodiums
of the host, are shewn the sacerdotal habits, in which Archbishop Becket (who resided there
many years) said mass, for it was his head-quarters, when he left Britain, as well as Julius
Cæsar's before he went there. The silver hasps, and some of the ornaments of these garments,
are still perfect, though it has undergone so many darnings, as to be little else.

Becket was a very tall man; for though it has many tucks in it, yet it is generally too long
for the tallest priest in the town, who constantly says mass in it on St. Thomas's day.

How times and men are changed! This town, which resisted the arms of Cæsar for a considerable
time, was put in the utmost consternation by Dr. Smollett's causing his travelling blunderbuss
to be only fired in the air, a circumstance "which greatly terrified all the petit monde!"
It is very singular, that the Doctor should have frightened a French nobleman of Burgundy,
by shaking his cane at him, and even made him assist in the most servile offices; and in the
next town, terrify all the common people, by only firing a blunderbuss in the air!

I spent in this town a day or two, and part of that time with a very agreeable Scotch family,
of the name of Macdonald, where Lieutenant Colonel Stuart was then upon a visit.

I have some reason to think that Sens is a very cheap town. Several English, Scotch, and Irish
families reside in it.

From Sens to Port sur Yonne is three leagues, and from Yonne to Foussart the same distance.

At the three Kings at Foussart, suspecting there was a cat behind the bed in wait for my bird,
I found, instead thereof, a little narrow door, which was artfully hid, and which opened into
another room; and as I am sure the man is a cheat, I suspect too, that upon a good occasion,
he would have made some use of his little door.

Foussart is a small place, consisting only of three or four public houses. From thence to Morret,
is three leagues, on which road is erected a noble pillar of oriental marble, in memory of
the marriage of Lewis the XVth. Soon after we passed this monument, we entered into the delightful
forest of Fontainbleau; and passing three leagues to the center of it, we arrived at that ancient
royal palace: it stands very low, and is surrounded by a great many fine pieces of water, which,
however, render the apartments very damp. The King and royal family had been there six weeks,
and were gone but ten days, and with them, all the furniture of the palace was also gone, except
glasses, and a few pictures, of no great value. In a long, gallery are placed, on each side
of the wall, a great number of stags' heads, carved in wood, and upon them are fixed the horns
of stags and bucks, killed by the late, and former Kings; some of which are very outre, others
singularly large and beautiful.

Fontainbleau is a good town, stands adjacent to the palace; and as the gardens, park, &c. are
always open, it is a delightful summer residence. We staid a few days there, to enjoy the shady
walks, and to see the humours of a great annual fair, which commenced the day after we arrived.
All sorts of things are sold at this fair; but the principal business is done in the wine way,
many thousand pieces of the inferior Burgundy wine being brought to this market.

We made two little days' journey from Fontainbleau to Paris, a town I entered with concern,
and shall leave with pleasure.--As I had formerly been of some service to Faucaut who keeps
the Hotel d'York, when he lived in Rue de Mauvais Garçon I went to this famous Hotel, which
would have been more in character, if he had given it the name of his former street, and called
it, L'Hotel de Mauvais Garçon for it is an hospital of bugs and vermin: the fellow has got
the second-hand beds of Madame Pompadour, upon his first floor, which he modestly asks thirty
louis d'ors a month for! All the rest of the apartments are pigeon-holes, filled with fleas,
bugs, and dirt; and should a fire happen, there is no way of escaping. Nothing should be more
particularly attended to in Paris than the security from fire, where so many, and such a variety
of strangers, and their servants, are shut up at night, within one Porte Cochere.

LETTER LII.

PARIS.

I found no greater alteration in Paris, after ten years' absence from it, than the prodigious
difference of expence; most articles, I think, are one-third dearer, and many double; a horse
is not half so well fed or lodged at Paris as at London; but the expence is nearly a guinea
a week, and a stranger may drive half round the city before he can lodge himself and his horses
under the same roof.[F]

   [F] Paul Gilladeau who lately left the Silver Lion, at Calais,
   has, I am informed, opened a Livery Stable at Paris, upon the
   London plan, in partnership with Dessein, of the Hotel
   d'Angleterre at Calais: a convenience much wanted, and
   undertaken by a man very likely to succeed.

The beauties, the pleasures, and variety of amusements, which this city abounds with, are,
without doubt, the magnets which attract so many people of rank and fortune of all nations
to it; all which are too well known to be pointed out by me.--To a person of great fortune
in the hey-day of life, Paris may be preferable even to London; but to one of my age and walk
in life, it is, and was ten years ago, the least agreeable place I have seen in France.--Walking
the streets is extremely dangerous, riding in them very expensive; and when those things which
are worthy to be seen, (and much there is very worthy) have been seen, the city of Paris becomes
a melancholy residence for a stranger, who neither plays at cards, dice, or deals in the principal
manufacture of the city; i.e. ready-made love, a business which is carried on with great success,
and with more decency, I think, that even in London. The English Ladies are weak enough to
attach themselves to, and to love, one man. The gay part of the French women love none, but
receive all, pour passer le tems.--The English, unlike the Parisian Ladies, take pains to discover
who they love; the French women to dissemble with those they hate.

It is extremely difficult for even strangers of rank or fortune, to get among the first people,
so as to be admitted to their suppers; and without that, it is impossible to have any idea
of the luxury and stile in which they live: quantity, variety, and show, are more attended
to in France, than neatness. It is in England alone, where tables are served with real and
uniform elegance; but the appetite meets with more provocatives in France; and the French cuisine
in that respect, certainly has the superiority.

Ten years ago I had the honour to be admitted often to the table of a Lady of the first rank.
On St. Ann's-day, (that being her name-day) she received the visits of her friends, who all
brought either a valuable present, a poesy, or a compliment in verse: when the dessert came
upon the table, which was very magnificent, the middle plate seemed to be the finest and fairest
fruit (peaches) and I was much surprized, that none of the Ladies, were helped by the gentlemen
from that plate: but my surprize was soon turned into astonishment! for the peaches suddenly
burst forth, and played up the Saint's name, (St. Ann) in artificial fire-works! and many pretty
devices of the same kind, were whirled off, from behind the coaches of her visitors, to which
they were fixed, as the company left the house, which had a pretty effect, and was no indelicate
way of taking a French leave.

There is certainly among the French people of fashion an ease and good-breeding, which is very
captivating, and not easily obtained, but by being bred up with them, from an early age; the
whole body must be formed for it, as in dancing, while there is the pliability of youth; and
where there is, as in France, a constant, early, and intimate correspondence between the two
sexes. Men would be fierce and savage, were it not for the society of the other sex, as may
be seen among the Turks and Moors, who must not visit their own wives, when other men's wives
are with them. In France, the Lady's bed-chamber is always open, and she receives visits in
bed, or up, with perfect ease. A noble Lord, late ambassador to this country, told me, that
when he visited a young and beautiful woman of fashion, (I think too it was a first visit after
marriage) she received him sitting up in her bed; and before he went, her fille de chambre
brought his Lordship Madame le Comtesse's shift elegantly festooned, which his Lordship had
the honour to put over the Lady's head, as she sat in bed!--nor was there, by that favour,
the least indecency meant; it was a compliment intended; and, as such only, received. Marks
of favour of that sort, are not marks of further favours from a French Lady.

In this vast city of amusements, among the other arts, I cannot help pointing out to your particular
notice, Richlieu's monument in the Sorbonne, as an inimitable piece of modern sculpture[G]
by Girardeau; and Madame la Valliere's full-length portrait by le Brun: She was, you know,
mistress to Lewis the XIVth, but retired to the convent, in which the picture now is, and where
she lived in repentance and sorrow above thirty years.[H]

   [G] VOLTAIRE says, this monument is not sufficiently noticed by
   strangers.

   [H] MADAME VALLIERE, during her retirement, being told of the death
   of one of her sons, replied, "I should rather grieve for his birth,
   than his death."

The connoisseurs surely can find no reasonable fault with the monumental artist; but they do,
I think, with le Brun; the drapery, they say, is too full, and that she is overcharged with
garments; but fulness of dress, adds not only dignity, but decency, to the person of a fine
woman, who meant (or the painter for her) to hide, not to expose her charms.

If fulness be a fault, it is a fault that Gainsborough, Hoare, Pine, Reynolds, and many other
of our modern geniuses are guilty of; and if it be sin, the best judges will acquit them for
committing it, where dignity is to be considered.

