MEMOIR AND DIARY

OF JOHN YEARDLEY,

Minister of the Gospel.

EDITED BY CHARLES TYLOR.

"Should time with me now close, I die in peace with my God, and in that love for mankind which
believes 'every nation to be our nation, and every man our brother.'"--Diary of J. Yeardley..

PHILADELPHIA: HENRY LONGSTRETH, 1336 CHESTNUT STREET. 1860.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

FROM JOHN YEARDLEY'S CONVERSION TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF HIS PUBLIC MINISTRY, 1803-15.

Birth and occupation Joseph Wood, of Newhouse Anecdote of Thomas Yeardley John Yeardley's conversion
He enters T. D. Walton's linen warehouse Joins the Society of Friends Marriage with Elizabeth
Dunn--Commencement of his Diary A. Clarke's "Commentary" Enters into business on his own account
Visit of Sarah Lameley Call to the ministry

CHAPTER II.

FROM HIS ENTRANCE ON THE MINISTRY IN 1815, TO HIS COMMISSION TO RESIDE IN GERMANY IN 1820.

First offerings in the ministry Is unsuccessful in business Removes to Bentham His views on
the Christian ministry Visit of Hannah Field Is recorded a minister Visits Kendal and Lancaster,
in company with Joseph Wood Visit to Friends at Barnsley Journey to York Letters to Thomas Yeardley

CHAPTER III.

FROM HIS COMMISSION TO RESIDE ABROAD IN 1820, TO HIS REMOVAL TO GERMANY IN 1822.

Prospect of residing in Germany Visit from John Kirkham Liverpool Quarterly Meeting Public
meeting at Wray Visit of Ann Jones Journey to Leeds Death of Joseph Wood Illness of Elizabeth
Yeardley Her death John Yeardley goes to Hull Extracts from Elizabeth Yeardley's letters Testimony
concerning Joseph Wood

CHAPTER IV.

HIS FIRST RESIDENCE IN GERMANY, 1822-24.

Sails to Hamburg--His lodging at Eppendorf Arrives at Pyrmont Friedensthal Religious service
with Thomas Shillitoe Establishment of the Reading and Youths' meetings at Pyrmont Mode of
bleaching Visiters at the Baths attend Pyrmont meeting J.Y. visits Minden and Eidinghausen
Plan for helping the Friends of Minden Journey to Leipzig Returns to England

CHAPTER V.

FROM HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND IN 1824, TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF HIS FIRST CONTINENTAL JOURNEY IN 1825.

Mental depression Journey with Elizabeth H. Walker through the Midland Counties Yearly Meeting
Returns to Friedensthal Humiliation Certificate for the South of France Martha Savory's visit
to the Continent Journey to Rotterdam

Chapter VI.

HIS FIRST CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1825-26.

John Yeardley and his companions leave Pyrmont Visit Elberfeld, Creveldt, Mühlheim, &c. Neuwied--the
Inspirirten Journey to Berlenburg Are placed under arrest at Erndebrück Set at liberty by the
Landrath of Berlenburg The Old and New Separatists Gelnhausen and Raneberg Pforzheim--H. Kienlin
Stuttgardt, Basle, &c. Zurich--the Gessner family Berne Geneva Journey to Congenies Religious
service in the South of France St. Etienne Return to England

CHAPTER VII.

HIS MARRIAGE WITH MARTHA SAVORY, 1826-27.

John Yeardley goes into Yorkshire Death of his parents Marriage with Martha Savory Biographical
notice of Martha Savory Letter from Martha Yeardley J. and M. Y. take up their abode at Burton,
near Barnsley

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SECOND CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1827-28.

PART I.--GERMANY.

J. and M.Y. sail to Rotterdam Minden, &c. Journey to the shores of the North Sea Visit to the
colonists on the Grodens Fredericks-Oort Frankfort Darmstadt--Durkheim Stuttgart Kornthal Wilhelmsdorf

CHAPTER IX.

THE SECOND CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1827-28.

PART II.--SWITZERLAND.

Schaffhausen Beuggen Zurich Hofwyl--Geneva--A. Bost Lausanne Neufchâtel Berne and the neighborhood
Montmirail--Neufchâtel Locle--Mary Anne Calame Journey through France Guernsey--Accident on
the water

CHAPTER X.

HOME OCCUPATIONS AND TRAVELS IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 1828-33.

Illness of Martha Yeardley Letter from M.A. Calame Yearly Meeting Letter from Auguste Borel--Public
meetings in Yorkshire Death of James A. Wilson--Journey through the Western Counties Various
religious engagements Journey through Wales with Elizabeth Dudley Visit to Lancashire Removal
to Scarborough Establishment of a Bible-class at ditto Prospects of a journey to Greece Argyri
Climi Yearly Meeting of Ministers and Elders

CHAPTER XI.

THE THIRD CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, OR THE JOURNEY TO GREECE, 1833-34.

PART I.--THE JOURNEY TO ANCONA.

Paris Death of Rachel Waterhouse Nancy Phalsbourg--Strasburg--Pastor Majors Ban de la Roche
Basle Neufchâtel Polish Count and Countess Geneva Journey through Italy Letters from Friends
in England

CHAPTER XII.

THE THIRD CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1833-34.

PART II.--GREECE.

Corfu Count F. Sardina Santa Maura Wigwam village on the mainland Cephalonia--Zante Patras--the
Gulf of Corinth Galaxidi--Trying situation Castri (the ancient Delphi) Journey to Athens Athens
Corinth Detentions--Vostizza Patras Corfu

CHAPTER XIII.

THE THIRD CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1833-34.

PART III.--THE RETURN FROM GREECE.

Letters from John Rowntree and William Allen Ancona Florence The Custom-house--Piedmont Geneva
Lausanne Berne Zurich--Schaffhausen Basle--Death of Thomas Yeardley Death of M.A. Calame Neufchâtel
Return to England--Death of A.B. Savory

CHAPTER XIV.

FROM THE END OF THE THIRD CONTINENTAL JOURNEY IN 1834 TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE FOURTH IN 1842.

Divisions in the Society of Friends Employment of leisure time Girls' Lancasterian school at
Scarborough Death of Elizabeth Rowntree--Letter from M.Y. to Elizabeth Dudley Visit to Thame
Visit to Lancashire Visits to the Isle of Wight Death of John Rutter Prospect of revisiting
the Continent

CHAPTER XV.

THE FOURTH CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1842-43.

Amiens Paris Letters from E. Dudley and J. Rowntree Lyons Nismes--Boarding-school for girls
Letter from John Rowntree Montpélier Lesengnan Maux Saverdun Toulouse Montauban--Castres Tullins--Grenoble
Geneva Lausanne Neufchâtel--Paul Pétavel Locle Berne Basle Carlsruhe--Frankfort Accident to
J.Y.--Vlotho

CHAPTER XVI.

REMOVAL TO STAMFORD-HILL, AND COMMENCEMENT OF THE FIFTH CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1843-48.

Removal to Berkhamstead Removal to Stamford-hill Visit to the families of Gracechurch-St. Monthly
Meeting Death of J.J. Gurney and I. Stickney Prepare for revisiting the Continent Brussels
H. Van Maasdyk Charleroi--Spa Bonn Mannheim, Strasburg Basle Berne-Neufchâtel Grenoble Privas--Vals
Nismes--Congenies

CHAPTER XVII.

COMPLETION OF THE FIFTH CONTINENTAL JOURNEY, 1849-50.

Letter from J.Y. to John Kitching Elberfeld--Mühlheim Bonn Kreuznach--J.A. Ott Mannheim Stuttgardt--Death
of Elizabeth Dudley Kornthal Kreuznach Bonn Return home--Resume their journey Berlin--A. Beyerhaus
Warmbrunn Illness of Martha Yeardley-Töplitz Prague--Translation of tracts into the Bohemian
language Kreuzuach--Neuwied

CHAPTER XVIII.

DEATH OF MARTHA YEARDLEY, AND JOHN YEARDLEY'S JOURNEY TO NORWAY, 1851-52.

Illness and death of Martha Yeardley J.Y. visits Ireland Prospect of a journey to Norway Homburg--Illness
of J.Y. Christiana--Christiansand Stavanger Excursion up one of the fiords Bergen Meetings
at Foedde and other places Obernkirchen

CHAPTER XIX.

HIS JOURNEY TO SOUTH RUSSIA, 1853.

Passport--Sails from Hull Petersburg Moscow Journey to Iekaterinoslav Kharkov Rybalsk--The
German Colonies The Molokans The Crimea--The Tartars A suspicious halting-place--Simpheropol
Feodosia Odessa--Constantinople Smyrna Syra--Malta Nismes--Bagnères de Bigorre Pialoux

CHAPTER XX.

FROM HIS RETURN FROM RUSSIA TO HIS LAST JOURNEY, 1853-1858.

Visits Bath The Yearly Meeting--Life of J. J. Gurney Visit to Minden--Religious service in
Yorkshire Goes again to Minden Neuveville Paris Visit to Bristol and Gloucester Quarterly Meetings
Minden Visit to Birmingham, Leicester, &c. Goes to Nismes Visits Chelmsford, &c.

CHAPTER XXI.

LAST JOURNEY AND DEATH, 1858. CONCLUDING REMARKS.

Religious Mission to Asiatic Turkey Voyage to Constantinople Sun-stroke Meetings in the neighborhood
of Constantinople Is seized with paralysis, and returns home His death--Remarks on his character
Notes of some of his public testimonies

MEMOIR

OF

JOHN YEARDLEY.

John Yeardley was born on the 3rd of the First Month, 1786, at a small farm-house beside Orgreave
Hall, in the valley of the Rother, four miles south of Rotherham. His parents, Joel and Frances
Yeardley, farmed some land, chiefly pasture, and his mother is said to have been famous for
her cream-cheeses, which she carried herself to Sheffield market. She was a pious and industrious
woman; but, through the misconduct of her husband, was sometimes reduced to such straits as
scarcely to have enough food for her children.

Before they left Orgreave they were attracted towards the worship of Friends, and several of
the family, including two of Joel Yeardley's sisters, embraced the truth as held by the Society.
In the year 1802 they removed to a farm at Blacker, three miles south of Barnsley, and attended
the meeting at Monk Bretton, or Burton, near that town, where the meeting-house then stood.
At Blacker it was John's business to ride into Barnsley daily on a pony, with two barrels of
milk to distribute to the customers of his mother's dairy. His elder brother Thomas worked
on the farm.

Their attendance at Burton meeting brought the family under the notice of Joseph Wood, a minister
of the Society, residing at Newhouse, near Highflatts, four miles from Penistone. Joseph Wood
had been a Yorkshire clothier, but relinquished business in the prime of life, and spent the
rest of his days in assiduous pastoral labor of a kind of which we have few examples. To attend
a Monthly Meeting he would leave home on foot the Seventh-day before, with John Bottomley,
also a Friend and preacher, and at one time his servant, for some neighboring meeting. He would
occupy the evening with social calls, dropping at every house the word of exhortation or comfort.
The meeting next day would witness his fervent ministry. In the afternoon they would proceed
to the place where the Monthly Meeting was to be held the following day, which they would attend,
filling up the time before and after with social and religious visits. In the intervals of
the Monthly Meetings, when not engaged on more distant service, it was his practice to appoint
meetings for worship in the villages around Highflatts, and very frequently to visit those
places where individuals were "under convincement," particularly Barnsley and Dewsbury, where
at that time many were added to the Society. On his return home from these services he would
spend the day in an upper room, without a fire, even in the severest weather, writing a minute
account of all that had happened.

It was in 1803 that Joseph Wood first had intercourse with Joel Yeardley's family. Under date
of the 19th of the Fourth Month, he says, speaking of himself and some other concerned Friends:--

We felt an inclination to visit Joel Yeardley's family, who are under convincement, and who
have lately removed from near Handsworth Woodhouse. We went to breakfast. He and Frances his
wife, with Thomas and John their sons, the former about nineteen, the latter seventeen years
of age, received us in a very kind and affectionate manner, expressing their satisfaction at
our coming to see them. They appeared quite open, and gave us a particular account of the manner
of their convincement and beginning to attend Friends' meetings, which was about four years
ago. I believe there is a good degree of sincerity in the man and his wife, and the two sons
appear to be tender and hopeful.

The next month Joseph Wood repeated his visit, and gives an account of the interview in the
following words:--

5 mo., 1803.--Having ever since I was at Joel Yeardley's the last month, felt my mind drawn
to sit with the family, and this appearing to me to be the right time, I set out from home
the 14th of the Fifth Month, in company with John Bottomley. Got to Joel Yeardley's betwixt
four and five o'clock. After tea, Thomas Dixon Walton and Samuel Coward of Barnsley came to
meet us there. In the evening we had a precious opportunity together, in which caution, counsel,
advice, and encouragement flowed plentifully, suited to the varied states of the family. I
had a long time therein first, from 1 Cor. xv. 58; John Bottomley next. Afterwards I had a
pretty long time, after which J.B. was concerned in prayer. At the breaking up of the opportunity
I had something very encouraging to communicate to their son Thomas, who, I believe, is an
exercised youth, to whom my spirit felt very nearly united.

Joel Yeardley unhappily did not long remain faithful to his convictions. He not only himself
drew back from intercourse with Friends, but was unwilling his sons should leave their work
to attend week-day meetings, and did all in his power to prevent them. This is shown by the
following narrative from Joseph Wood's memoranda:--

As William Wass and I were going to attend a Committee at Highflatts, on our Monthly Meeting
day, in the morning, we met with Thomas Yeardley of Blacker, near Worsbro', a young man who
is under convincement. I was a little surprised to see him having on a green singlet and smock
frock. He burst out into tears; I inquired the matter, and if something was amiss at home;
he only replied, "Not much;" and we not having time to atop, proceeded, and he went forward
to my house. This was on the 19th of the Ninth Month, 1803.

After the Monthly Meeting was over, I had an opportunity to inquire into the cause of his appearance
and trouble, and found that he was religiously concerned to attend weekday meetings, which
his father was much averse to; and in order to procure his liberty he had worked almost beyond
his ability; but all would not do, his father plainly telling him that he should quit the house.
The evening before, he applied to him for leave to come to the meeting at Highflatts to-day;
but he refused, and treated him with very rough language. However, as the concern remained
with him, he rose early in the morning and got himself ready; but his father came and violently
pulled the clothes off his back, and his shirt also, and took all his other clothes from him
but those we met him in, telling him to get a place immediately, for he should not stop in
his house. Being thus stripped, he went to his work in the stable; but, not feeling easy without
coming to meeting, he set out as he was, not minding his dress, so that he might but be favored
to get to the meeting.

This evening we had an opportunity with him in my parlor, much to our satisfaction. The language
of encouragement and consolation flowed freely and plentifully towards him through William
Wass, John Bottomley, and myself; and afterwards, in conference with him, we found liberty
to advise him to return home (he having before thought of procuring a place), believing if
he was preserved faithful, way would in time be made for him, and that it might perhaps be
a means of his father's restoration; as at times, he said, he appeared a little different,
not having wholly lost his love to Friends, and always behaved kindly to them. He took our
advice kindly, and complied therewith. After stopping two nights at my house, he returned home.

Joseph Wood did not suffer much time to elapse before he paid another visit to Blacker, to
comfort the afflicted family. It was from this visit, as we apprehend, that John Yeardley dated
his change of heart. "I was convinced," he said on one occasion, "at a meeting which Joseph
Wood had with our family."

7 mo. 17, 1803.--Thomas Walker Haigh and William Gant accompanied us to Joel Yeardley's, where
we tarried all night; but the two young men from Barnsley returned home after supper. Joel
was from home, but after tea we had a religious opportunity with the rest of the family, in
which I had a very long consolatory and encouraging testimony to bear to the deeply-suffering
exercised minds from John xvi. 33. Afterwards I had a pretty long time, principally to their
son John, who I believe was under a precious visitation from on high. He was much broken and
tendered, and I hope this season of remarkable favor will not soon be forgotten by him.

On his return home Joseph Wood wrote him the following letter:--

Newhouse, 10 mo. 24, 1803

BELOVED FRIEND, JOHN YEARDLEY,

Thou hast often been in my remembrance since I last saw thee, accompanied with an earnest desire
that the seed sown may prosper and bring forth fruit in its season, to the praise and glory
of the Great Husbandman, who, I believe, is calling thee to glory, honor, immortality, and
eternal life.

Not that we should be found wanting in our duty to our near connexions, for true religion does
not destroy natural affection, but brings and preserves it in its proper place. When our earthly
parents command one thing, and the Almighty another, it is better for us to obey God than man,
and herein is our love manifested unto him by our obedience to his commands though it may sometimes
clash against our parents' minds. At the same time it is our duty to endeavor to convince them,
that we are willing to obey all their lawful commands, where they do not interfere with our
duty to Him who hath given us life, breath, and being, and mercifully visited us by his grace.
I thought a remark of this kind appeared to be required of me, apprehending if thou art faithful
unto the Lord, thou wilt find it to be thy duty at times to leave thy worldly concerns to attend
religious meetings, which may cause thee deep and heavy trials; but remember for thy encouragement,
the promise of the hundred-fold in this world, and in that which is to come, eternal life.

Thou art favored with a pious though afflicted mother, and a religiously-exercised elder brother,
who, I doubt not, will rejoice to see thee grow in the truth. May you all be blessed with the
blessing of preservation, and strengthened to keep your ranks in righteousness, and may you
be a strength and comfort to each other, and hold up a standard of truth and righteousness
in the neighborhood where your lot is cast. Do not flinch, my beloved friend; be not ashamed
to become a true follower of Christ. When little things are required of thee, be faithful;
thus shalt thou be made ruler over more; when greater things are manifested to be thy duty,
remember the Lord is able to support, who declared by the mouth of his prophet formerly, "Mine
heritage is unto me as a speckled bird, the birds round about are against her." But if the
Lord be on our side, it matters little who may be permitted to arise against us, for his power
is above all the combined powers of the wicked one, and he will bless and preserve those who
above all things are concerned to serve him faithfully, which that thou mayest be is the sincere
desire of thy truly loving and affectionate friend,

JOSEPH WOOD.

The word which had been so fitly spoken took deep root in John Yeardley's heart, and on the
following New-year's day he went up to Newhouse to converse with his experienced and sympathizing
friend.

On the 1st of the First Month, 1804, (writes Joseph Wood,) John Yeardley came to my house,
on purpose to see me. He got here betwixt ten and eleven o'clock in the forenoon, attended
our meeting and tarried with us until after tea, and then returned home. He is a hopeful youth,
tender in spirit, and of a sweet natural disposition; was convinced of the truth in an opportunity
I had at his father's house, and, I hope, is likely to do well. I love him much, and much desire
his preservation, growth, and establishment upon the everlasting foundation, against which
the gates of Hell are not able to prevail.

Shortly after this, we obtain from John Yeardley's own hand an insight into the depth of those
religious convictions which had so mercifully been vouchsafed to him. The manner in which this
interesting memorandum concludes is quaint, but it expresses a resolution to which he was enabled
to adhere in a remarkable degree throughout the course of his long life; for of him it may
be said that, beyond many, his pursuits, his aims, and his conversation were not of the world,
but were bounded by the line of the Gospel, and animated by its self-denying spirit.

Blacker, 2 mo. 9, 1804.--As I pursued these earthly enjoyments, it pleased the Lord, in the
riches of his mercy to turn me back in the blooming of my youth, and favor me with the overshadowing
of his love, to see the splendid pleasures that so easily detained my precious time. He was
graciously pleased to call me to the exercise of that important work which must be done in
all our hearts, which appears to me no small cross to my own will, and attended with many discouragements;
yet I am made to believe it is the way wherein I ought to go; and I trust Thou, O Lord, who
hast called, will enable me to give up, and come forward in perfect obedience to the manifestations
of thy divine light, so as a thorough change may be wrought, that I may be fitted and prepared
for a place in thy everlasting kingdom. Though at times I am led into great discouragement,
and almost ready to faint by the way, fearing I shall never be made conqueror over those potent
enemies who so much oppose my happiness, O be Thou near in these needful times, and underneath
to bear me up in all the difficulties which it is necessary I should pass through for my further
refinement, whilst I have a being in this earthly pilgrimage. Strong are the ties that seem
to attach me to the earth; but O! I have cause to believe, from a known sense, stronger are
the ties of thy overshadowing Spirit than all the ties of natural affection. Great and frequent
are the trials and temptations, and narrow is the way wherein we ought to walk; alas! too narrow
for many. O may I ever be preserved, faithfully forward to the eternal land of rest!

Dear Lord, who knowest the secret of all hearts, thou knowest I am at times under a sense of
great weakness; but thou, who art always waiting to gather the tender youth into thy flock
and family, hast mercifully reached over me with thy gathering arm. Mayst thou ever be near
to strengthen me in every weakness; and make me willing to leave all, take up my daily cross,
and follow thee in the denial of self, not fearing to confess thee before men. Always give
me strength to perform whatsoever thou mayest require at my hands; wean my affections more
and more; attract me nearer to thyself; and lead me through this world as a stranger, never
to be known to it more but by the name of JOHN YEARDLEY.

In the Third Month Joseph Wood again addressed his young friend by letter, encouraging him
to be steadfast in trial, and to beware of the gilded baits of the enemy; and promising him,
that if he followed the Lord faithfully, his works should appear marvellous in his eyes, his
wonders be disclosed to him in the deeps, and he on his part would be made willing to serve
him with a perfect heart.

In the Sixth Month, again visiting Blacker, he had a "precious, heart-tendering religious opportunity
with all the family."

About this time Joel Yeardley was so much reduced in his circumstances as to be obliged to
give up farming, which compelled his sons to seek their own means of livelihood. Thomas and
John went into Barnsley, where they applied themselves to the linen manufacture, and were taken
into the warehouse of Thomas Dixon Walton, a Friend, who afterwards married a daughter of Thomas
Shillitoe.

In the First Month, 1806, Joseph Wood records another interesting interview with his young
friend:--

1 mo. 7.--I called on Thomas Dixon Walton and John Yeardley, with whom I had a religious opportunity
in which the language of encouragement flowed freely; I being opened unto them from Luke xii.

In the Third Month of this year John Yeardley made application for membership in the Society
of Friends, and was admitted in the Fifth Month following, being then twenty years of age.
His brother Thomas had joined the Society some time before. The brothers are thus described
by one who knew them intimately:--Thomas, as a man of homely manners, of hearty and genial
character, and greatly beloved; John, as possessing a native refinement which made it easy
for him in after-life to rise in social position, but whose reserved habits caused him to be
less generally appreciated.

The call which John Yeardley received, and which he so happily obeyed, to leave the world and
enter by the strait gate into the kingdom of heaven, was accompanied, as we shall afterwards
see more fully, by a secret conviction that he would one day have publicly to preach to others
the Gospel of salvation. A sense that such was the case seems to have taken hold of Joseph
Wood's mind, in a visit which he made him some time after his admission into the Society.

1 mo. 29, 1808.--Sat with T.D. Walton and his wife, and his man John Yeardley. I had two pretty
long testimonies to bear from Colossians iv. 17. I had to show the necessity there was for
those who had received a gift in the ministry to be faithful, and, as Satan was as busy about
these as any others, to be careful to withstand his temptations, that nothing might hinder
our fulfilment of this gift, nor anything be suffered to prevail over us that might hinder
its proper effect upon others.

After Thomas was gone to breakfast, my mind was unexpectedly opened in a pretty long encouraging
testimony to John, from John xxi. 22--"What is that to thee? follow thou me;" having gently
to caution him not to look at others to his hurt, but faithfully follow his Master, Jesus Christ,
in the way of his leadings.

In 1809 John Yeardley married Elizabeth Dunn. She was much older than himself, "plain in person,"
but "full of simplicity and goodness," and of a "most lovable" character. Like her husband
she had come into the Society by convincement; and like him she had partaken in a large degree
of the paternal sympathy and oversight of Joseph Wood. She had been a Methodist, and was one
of the first who joined with Friends at Barnsley in the awakening which took place there in
the beginning of the century.

John Yeardley and his wife inhabited, on their marriage, a small house at the southern extremity
of the town, whither very soon afterwards was transferred the afternoon meeting which it was
customary to hold at some Friend's house in Barnsley. The morning meeting continued to be held
at. Burton until 1816, when a new meeting-house was built in the town.

They had only one child, a son, who died in infancy.

John Yeardley commenced his Diary in 1811; and this valuable record of his religious experience,
and of his travels in the service of the Gospel, was maintained with more or less regularity
to the end of his life. The motive which induced him to adopt this practice is given in the
following lines, with which the manuscript commences:--

It may seem a little strange that I should, in my present situation, attempt to keep any memorandums
of the following kind; but feeling desirous simply to pen down a few broken remarks as they
may at times occur to my mind, I apprehend no great harm can arise; and if, by causing a closer
scrutiny into my future stepping along, they should in any degree exercise my mind to spiritual
improvement, the intended purpose will be fully answered.

The first entry is dated the 6th of the Tenth Month, 1811:--

First-day.--Have been sweetly refreshed at our little meeting this morning. I have long felt
assured that Time calls for greater diligence in me than has hitherto been rendered. And when
I consider the innumerable favors and privileges which I enjoy at the hands of Divine Providence,
beyond many of my fellow-creatures, and the few returns of gratitude I am making, it raises
in me an inexpressible desire that my few remaining days may be dedicated, in humble obedience,
to Him whose great and noble cause I am professing to promote.

How unstable is human nature! On sitting down in meeting this evening I got into a state of
unwatchfulness, which continued so long as to deprive me of the refreshment my poor mind so
often stands in need of.

In the entries which follow, the progress of the inward work and the preparation for future
service are very evident:--

13th.--Went to our morning gathering in a low frame of mind, and was made afresh to believe
that were we more concerned to dwell nearer the pure principle of Truth when out of meetings,
we should not find such difficult access when thus collected, but each one would be encouraged
to come under the precious influence of that baptizing power which would cement and refresh
our spirits together. O then, I firmly believe, our Heavenly Father would in an eminent manner
condescend to crown our assemblies with the overshadowing of his love, and enable us not only
to roll away the stone, but to draw living water as out of the wells of salvation.

24th.--Was a little refreshed at our morning gathering, my spirit being exercised under a concern
that I might not rest satisfied with anything short of living experience; and I felt comforted
with a lively hope that He whom my soul loveth will not fail to manifest his divine regard
to one who is sincerely desirous to become acquainted with his ways. O, how shall I render
sufficient thankfulness for such a favor, thus to be made once more sweetly to partake of the
brook by the way.

Thought the evening sitting rather dull, though the ministry of T. S. was lively, which is
a confirming proof that however favored we may be at certain seasons, yet if at any time we
suffer our attention to be diverted from the real object, it frustrates the design of Him who
I believe intends that we should wait together to renew our strength.

In the Eleventh Month Henry Hull, from the United Slates, accompanied by John Hull of Uxbridge,
visited Burton, and had good service their, both amongst Friends and with the public. They
lodged at John Yeardley's, and, in describing their labors and the pleasure he derived from
their society, he records his thankfulness at being placed in a situation in life such as afforded
him the opportunity of entertaining the Lord's servants.

His disposition was lively and strongly inclined to humor, and he early felt the necessity
of having this natural trait of character subjected to the rule of heavenly wisdom. Under date
27th of the Eleventh Month he says:--

I feel a little compunction for having these few days past given way too much to the lightness
of my disposition, and not being sufficiently concerned to seek after that stability and serious
reflection which never fails to improve the mind.

On the 26th of the Twelfth Month he records a state of spiritual poverty.

Such, he says, has been the instability of my mind, that my "Beloved is unto me as a fountain
sealed." But, he adds, I feel a little tendered this evening, on reading over a few comfortable
expressions in a letter from my friend, Joseph Wood.

This condition of mind continued for some months, when he thus breaks forth:--

3 mo. 8, 1812.--How pleasant it is once more to be favored with a few drops of living water
from the springs of that well which my soul has had for many weeks past to languish after,
and which I trust has been wisely withheld in order to show me that, although it is our indispensable
duty to persevere in digging for it, yet it is only in His own time that we are permitted to
drink thereof.

His just appreciation of the nature of meetings held for the discipline of the Church, and
of the spirit in which they are to be conducted, is shown in an early part of the Diary.

3 mo. 15.--Was at our Preparative Meeting. The queries having to be answered, I was led into
deep thoughtfulness respecting the same, and inwardly solicited that the Father of mercies
would lend his divine aid, in the performance of such important duties; which I have reason
to believe was in some measure answered, for they were gone through with a degree of ease and
comfort to my own mind. May I ever keep in remembrance the testimonies of his love which are
so often manifested!

8 mo. 17.--Meeting for discipline at Burton. The forepart was conducted, I think, to edification;
but in the latter, one subject occupied much time unnecessarily, and did not conclude to general
satisfaction. When some whose spirits are not well seasoned, speak to circumstances which they
may not have sufficiently considered, it sometimes does more harm than they may at first apprehend.

The entries in the Diary at this time shew many alternations of discouragement and comfort,
and of that deep searching of his own heart from which he seldom shrank, and which is the only
way to the liberty and peace of the soul.

4 mo. 12.--In contemplating the gracious dealings of the Almighty with me from time to time,
I have been led to query, Is it not that I might, by patiently submitting to the turnings and
overturnings of his most holy hand, become fashioned to show forth his praise? But alas! where
are the fruits? Is not the work rather marring as on the wheel; can I, in sincerity say, I
am the clay, Thou art the potter? I feel weary of my own negligence; for it seems as if the
day with me was advancing faster than the work, I fear lest I should be cast off for want of
giving greater diligence to make my calling sure. O may he who is perfect in wisdom strengthen
the feeble desire which remains, and melt my stubborn will into perfect obedience by the operation
of his pure spirit.

In the next memoranda which we shall transcribe we see when and how his mind was imbued with
the love of Scriptural inquiry and illustration. Two or three good books well read and digested
in younger life often form the thinking habits of the man, and supply no small part of the
substance, or at any rate the nucleus, of his knowledge. This shows the vast importance of
a wise choice of authors, at the time when the mind is the most susceptible of impressions,
and the most capable of appropriating the food which is presented to it. Those who knew John
Yeardley will recognise the intimate connexion between these early studies and the character
of his future life and ministry. If any should think his language on this or kindred subjects
marked by excessive caution, they must bear in mind the comparative by unintellectual circle
in which he moved.

