The three Spaniards rushed to the side, and took flying leaps into the lighters. Hindhaugh
stooped low and ran to the companion. "Let that beggar up," he shouted. The Scorpion scuttled
on deck. "Now, mister, I'll let you see if you'll take me in. Over you go. Over the stern with
you, and mind the propeller doesn't carve you." Two shots were fired, but they went wild. The
Scorpion saw the whole situation; he poised for a second on the rail, and then jumped for it,
and Hindhaugh laughed loudly as his enemy came up blowing. Jack performed a triumphal war-dance
on the steamer's bridge, and the Jenny Jones was soon far out of pistol range.

All that night Captain Hindhaugh did not sleep a wink. He was quite persuaded that he had acted
the part of an exemplary Briton. What is the use of belonging to the ruling race if a mere
foreigner is to do as he likes with you? But the adventurous skipper had landed himself in
a pretty mess, and the full extent of his entanglement grew on him every minute. At twelve
o'clock, when the watch was relieved, Jack came aft in a state of exultation that words cannot
describe. He chuckled out, "Well, sir, we've made our fortunes this time." Hindhaugh damped
his spirits by saying, slowly, "Not too fast; that 'baccy's got to go overboard, my boy." Jack's
mental processes became confused. He had been measuring the cubic contents of the smuggled
goods, and the thought of wasting such a gift of the gods fairly stunned him. Had it been cotton,
his imagination would not have been touched. But 'baccy! and overboard! It was too much, and
he groaned. He was ready with expedients at once.

"Why not run it to Holland?"

"Can't be done; where's our bill of lading?"

"Make up one yourself; you have plenty of forms."

"And suppose the luck goes the wrong way. What's to happen to me--and to you too for that matter?"

"Run to a tobacco port, and warehouse the stuff in your own name."

"We're not bound for a tobacco port. What's to be done about the cargo of ore that we are carrying?
No, John; the whole five thousand pounds must go over the side."

Next morning broke joyously. The sea looked merry with miles of brisk foam, and the little
Portuguese schooners flew like butterflies hither and thither. Every cloud of spray plucked
from the dancing crests flashed like white fire under the clear sun. It was one of the mornings
when one cannot speak for gladness. But Hindhaugh's thoughts were fixed on material things.
The rich bales lay there, and their presence affected him like a sarcasm. The men were called
aft, and the shovels used for trimming grain were brought up. Then the captain said, "Now each
of you take a pound or two of this tobacco, and then break the bales and shovel the rest overboard."
The precious packages were burst, and the sight of the beautiful leaf, the richness of the
tender aroma, affected the sailors with remorse. It was like offering up a sacrifice. But the
captain's orders were definite; so until near noon the shovels were plied smartly, and one
hundredweight after another of admirable tobacco drifted away on the careless sea.

Hindhaugh watched grimly until at last his emotions overcame him. He growled, "Confound it,
I can't do it! Belay there, men; I'll have another think over this job." And think he did,
with businesslike solemnity, all day long. He saw that he might make a small fortune by risking
his liberty, and the curious morality of the British sailor prevented him from seeing shades
of right or wrong where contraband business was concerned. Had you told him that the tobacco
was stolen, he would have pitched you overboard; he felt his morality to be unimpeachable;
it was only the question of expediency that troubled him. For three days it was almost unsafe
to go near him, so intently did he ponder and plan. On the fifth day he had worked his way
through his perplexities, and was ready with a plan. A pilot cutter came in sight, and Hindhaugh
signalled her. The pilot's boat was rowed alongside, and the bronzed and dignified chief swaggered
up to the captain with much cordiality. No one is so cordial as a pilot who has secured a good
ship. The two men exchanged news, and gradually slid into desultory talk. Suddenly Hindhaugh
said, "Are you game for a bit of work? Do you ever DO anything?"

The pilot was virtuously agitated. He drew himself up, and, taking care that the mate should
hear, answered, "Me! Not for the wurrrld, Cap'n. I've got a wife and children, sir."

"All right, Pilot, never mind; come down and have some tea."

Then Hindhaugh gradually drew his man out, until the pilot was absolutely confidential. The
captain knew by the very excess of purity expressed in the pilot's first answer that he was
not dealing with a simpleton; but he carefully kept away from the main subject which was in
his (and the pilot's) mind. At last the man leaned over and gave a masonic sign. "What was
that job you was speaking about, Cap'n? We're near home now, you know. Better not go too near."

Hindhaugh played a large card. He smiled carelessly. "Fact is, I've just told the fellows to
shy the stuff overboard; I shall risk no more."

"Mercy me, Cap'n! You're mad. How did I know who you were? I see all about it now, but I did
not know what game you might have on with me. I'm in it, you know, if the dimes is right!"

"How?"

"Why, if the job's big enough. You stand off for a day; go down to the Sleeve, and hang round,
and I'll find you a customer."

"If you do, I pay you three hundred pound as soon as his money's down."

"Done, then. My boat's not gone far. Whistle her, and I'll go slap for Bristol. Never you mind
for a day or two. How's your coals?"

"They're all right. You scoot now, and fetch your man over this way. I'll go half-speed to
the sou'west for twelve hours, another twelve hours half-speed back. You'll find us."

In thirty-six hours the pilot cutter came back, and a Hebrew gentleman boarded the Jenny Jones
from her. After a long inspection, the visitor said, "Now look here, I must have a hundred
per cent. margin out of this. What's your figure?"

"Two thousand five hundred."

"Won't do. Say two thousand, and you pay the jackal out of that."

"Done. And how do you manage?"

"I'll split the lot up among three trawlers. You wait off, and give the jackal an extra fifty
for bringing the boats down. I risk the rest."

Another night passed, and the dawn was breaking coldly when the dirty sails of the trawlers
came in sight. Ship after ship had hailed Hindhaugh, and offered to tow him if anything had
happened to his engines. He knew he would be reported as lying off apparently disabled, and
he was in a feverish state of excitement. The Hebrew speculator watched the last bale down
the side, and then handed over the money, had a glass of brandy with the pilot, and departed--whither
Hindhaugh neither knew nor cared. The Jenny Jones ran for her port. She had just slowed down,
and the great waves of smoke from the town were pouring over her, when two large boats, heavily
laden with men, came off to her. The men swarmed up the side, and the officer in command shouted,
"Bring up the pickaxes, and go to work!" The hatches were pulled off before the steamer had
taken up her moorings, and the men went violently to work among the ore. Hindhaugh looked innocent,
and inquired, "What's all this about, officer?"

"Fact is, Captain, we've got a telegram from Gibraltar to say you have contraband on board.
You may save all trouble if you make a clean breast."

"Contraband! Who told you that?"

"Oh, we should have known without the wire. That gentleman on the quay there came overland,
and he put us up to you."

Hindhaugh looked ashore, and saw a dark face that he knew well. He whistled and smiled. Then
he said to the officer, "You may just as well stop those poor beggars from blistering their
hands. You won't find anything here except what the men have in the forecastle. You're done
this journey fairly. Come away down and liquor, and I'll tell you all about it." Then Hindhaugh
gave an artistic account of the whole transaction, and put the matter in such a light that
the custom-house officer cordially congratulated him on having escaped without a slit weasand.

The Jenny Jones went back to Gibraltar, and Captain Hindhaugh was very careful never to go
ashore without a companion. One day he was passing a chandler's shop when a sunken glitter
of dark eyes met him. His old acquaintance, the chief Scorpion, was looking stilettos and poison
at him. But Hindhaugh went by in his big, burly way, and contented himself with setting on
three watchmen every night during his stay. To this day he is pleased with himself for having
given the foreigners a lesson in the elements of morality, and he does not fear their knives
one whit.

THE MASTER OF THE "CHRYSOLITE"

BY G. B. O'HALLORAN

Captain Anderson stood alone in the world. But he was one who COULD stand alone, for his will
was strong and his affections were weak. Those who thought they knew him best said he was hardy.
The remainder said he was hard, his heart a stone. Still he was a human being, for, like others,
he cherished hobbies. His hobbies, however, were not of that class which is compassed about
by rest and roses. Instead, they were clothed with a stern delight born of defiance and danger.
To work his ship across the Bay in the teeth of an adverse gale; to weather a lee shore; to
master a rebellious crew single-handed--these were the wild diversions which satisfied him.
Once, in the China seas, his men grew mutinous, said the ship was "leaking like a lobster-pot,"
and straightway put her about for Singapore; swore they did not care what the skipper thought--in
fact, would like to talk to him a bit. The skipper was below when the first mate brought down
the news and a very pale face as well.

"Tell the men to muster!"

So soon as the mate's back was turned, John Anderson took a revolver from a locker and charged
it; then, ascending the companion-ladder, he walked to the break of the poop, with his hands
buried in the pockets of a pea-jacket. Down below him were the men, lolling about in a sullen
crowd on the weather side of the quarter-deck. They were thirty or forty in number, and were
a vicious-looking set.

"Now then, my men! Half an hour ago we were steering due northeast. Who was it dared to lay
the ship's nose the other way?"

The burly boatswain swung his way out of the crowd, planted his foot on the first step of the
poop-ladder, and stared up at the captain.

"I did, and be damned to you!" roared he. There was a loud report. The boatswain dropped, shot
in the leg. And the crew shivered under a gleaming eye and a gleaming weapon.

"All hands 'bout ship!" cried the master. The wounded boatswain, raising himself for a moment
on one hand, piped faintly, and fell back unconscious. But the men were already at their stations,
and in five minutes more the Chrysolite was heading northeast again.

Such incidents as these gave John Anderson an unenviable reputation among sailors. It was seldom
that the same crew served him twice. Two voyages under this tartar were more than could be
stood, and from his subordinates, therefore, he gained nothing but hatred and fear.

It was very difficult, then, to find out where Captain Anderson's weakness lay. Everybody,
of course, has his weakness. But this man appeared to be all strength. His whole life seemed
like a rod of burnished steel--a passion-proof life, a fire-proof rod. The owners of the Chrysolite,
Messrs. Ruin & Ruin, of Billiter Street, piqued themselves on knowing his tender point. He
was avaricious, thought they; he would do much for money, and they would some day try him in
the furnace. It was true, indeed, that the old sailor had amassed considerable wealth during
his frequent voyages to the East. It was true also that he was sparing and saving; that he
drove bargains to the verge of perdition, and clinched them at the crucial moment. But it was
equally true that he was free from fraud. His teas were what they pretended to be, his silks
unimpeachable, and no man ever came back upon him with complaints of their genuineness. The
world allowed that he was at least commercially honourable, but felt fully convinced that he
was eaten up with the desire for gold.

But the world was wrong. The captain himself was sometimes given to metaphysical speculation,
and even HE was puzzled to know if his heart had a whit more feeling than any other pumping-engine.
Women he looked upon as frivolities of vanity to which he could not reconcile his stern nature;
and men he regarded as instruments to be rigorously disciplined, not failing at the same time
to discipline himself. His heart was of no use to him except to circulate his blood. In default,
therefore, of loving anything, he fell naturally to pursuing a difficult task--the piling up
of a mountain of gold. This was congenial solely because it was difficult, and difficulties
overcome were his only sources of satisfaction.

Now it happened that a new firm trading to the East, in competition with Messrs. Ruin & Ruin,
had made advances to Captain Anderson with a view to engaging him in their service; and as
they offered liberal terms, including a handsome percentage, it was not long before the old
seaman was won over. Here is a chance, thought he, of heaping up my mountain so much the more
quickly, and I am determined that my actions shall not be hampered by sentiment. Notwithstanding
this last threat, he found it a very unpleasant thing to break with his old employers, one
of whose ships he had commanded for a score of years. But he would get scot-free of them before
he finally concluded negotiations with the new people. And so it came to pass that one morning
he walked along Billiter Street with his twenty-year-old commission in his pocket.

It is curious how fond real old salts are of dress when ashore. Here was John Anderson in a
top-hat and kid gloves, looking anything but at home in them. The glossy hat was a mockery
to his bold sea-worn face, and his big knuckles were almost bursting through the soft kid with
indignation at the affront put upon them.

He reached the chambers in which the firm of Messrs. Ruin & Ruin was established, and ascended
the staircase, for the office was on the second floor. The senior partner was within, and the
captain was admitted into his room without delay.

"Glad to see you, Captain Anderson," said Mr. Ruin, in an unusually cordial tone, at the same
time shaking hands. "You've made a capital passage, and freighted the Chrysolite well."

Mr. Ruin was a big, fat man who spoke oilily. His clean-shaven face was never without the remnants
of a smile--a smile, though, which was not remarkable for its sincerity. Still, it had its
value,--in the market,--for it was a commercial smile. A pair of small gray eyes were almost
hidden by the obese curves of his cheeks; but you learned in a very short time that they kept
a sharp and shrewd lookout from behind those ramparts. The two men sat down at opposite sides
of the table, the owner guessing from the captain's manner that there was something in the
wind, and the captain thinking his employer's exuberance of civility betokened more than was
manifest.

"Yes, I brought her a quick passage," replied Anderson; then, looking straight at the owner,
"and it's the last she'll make under me."

The remnants of a smile coalesced, ploughing up Mr. Ruin's cheeks into greasy furrows.

"My dear Captain, we could not hear of it! We're too old friends to part like that."

"Well, sir, I've come this morning, for private reasons, to throw up my commission," said the
captain, simultaneously throwing down his commission before the senior partner's eyes.

"I can't accept it, Mr. Anderson; I can't indeed," replied the owner, picking up the parchment.
"And I'll tell you why. My brother and I have been thinking matters over, and we've really
been obliged to confess, for conscience' sake, that the Chrysolite is getting old."

"Devilish old!" muttered the captain, forgetting himself for a moment.

"Well, now I think of it again, I believe my brother did say she was 'devilish old'--a strange
coincidence. Still she is a fine model of a boat. What d' ye think yourself?"

"She has rare lines," said the other, with a slight approach to grave enthusiasm.

"The very remark I made myself only yesterday. Yes, we agreed she was a pretty boat; and I
admit, from sheer sentiment, I cannot bear to think of her being chopped up for firewood. So
inharmonious, don't you think?"

The old sailor looked sullen and said nothing.

Mr. Ruin leaned his elbows well on to the table in a confidential manner, and reduced his voice
to husky whispering.

"My brother told me he should not mind seeing her end her days as a picturesque wreck, but
to sell her for match-wood was barbarous. I was really of the same opinion. And--and--couldn't
it be managed for her, Captain Anderson?"

The two looked at each other narrowly. "If you can get any one to do it, of course it can be
done. But I would sooner--"

"Now before you judge, hear me, Captain. I feel sure you could find that man if you chose.
See; the Chrysolite is insured in the Jupiter Insurance Company for nine thousand pounds. Here
is the policy. And the man that saves her from the axe, and makes a picturesque wreck of her,
will earn the gratitude of Messrs. Ruin & Ruin, and three thousand pounds besides."

For once even the remnants of a smile had disappeared from the senior partner's face, and he
stood confessed--the type of a cool financial scoundrel.

The sailor, on the other hand, was agitated as no one had ever seen him before. The veins stood
out on his brawny throat like rope; his eyelids were purple; for a few moments his head swam.
Then he righted himself as suddenly, with an emphatic refusal ready on his lips. But the wily
partner had left the room. This gave Anderson time to think, and the more he thought the more
that pile of gold forced itself before him, until, forsooth, he fell to thinking how such an
end COULD be compassed--by another commander. He saw clearly that a skilful seaman might achieve
this thing with slight danger to himself and his crew. And all this time the three thousand
pounds shone so lustrously that his moral vision was dazzled, and the huge iniquity of the
whole affair was rapidly vanishing from sight.

When Mr. Ruin reentered, Anderson was looking ashamed and guilty.

"Well, Captain, can I help you to a conclusion?" came from the oily lips.

"It's this way," replied the old man, turning round, but keeping his eyes fixed on the carpet;
"I can't do it. No, I can't."

Mr. Ruin eyed him dubiously, and rubbed his chin gently. "I'm sorry--very, very sorry! Three
thousand pounds won't go long begging, though. And I shall have to accept your resignation,
Captain."

Anderson only took up his hat and walked slowly out of the room. He had not descended many
steps when he turned back and reopened the door.

"No, sir," he said; "it can't be done. I must think it over, and--no--it can't be done." With
that he went his way, miserable.

The same night he received a letter by post. It contained his old commission, reinstating him
in the command of the Chrysolite.

Four months later the Chrysolite was unloading a general cargo in Mauritius harbour. Captain
Anderson had thought it over.

The quay was quickly covered with Manchester bales and Birmingham cases; and it was not long
before the tackle at the main-yard arm was set a-clicking, as the baskets of sand ballast were
hove up to be poured into the empty hold. No such luxuries were there as steam-winches; not
any of those modern appliances for lightening labour. Instead, five or six hands plied the
ponderous work at the winch handles, the labour being substantially aggravated by the heat
of a vertical sun. A spell at the orthodox hand-winch in the tropics is an ordeal not to be
lightly spoken of, and sailors have the very strongest objection to the work. It requires the
utmost vigilance on the part of the captain, therefore, to prevent the feebler spirits from
deserting. He was able, however, to reckon a full crew as he steered out of Port Louis harbour
and shaped his course for Ceylon.

Some of the hands had grumbled at not having more liberty to go ashore. In an excess of passion,
Anderson made answer:

"To your kennels, you dogs! I'll put you ashore soon enough, and I'll warrant you'll stay there
longer than you care for."

It was indiscreet language, and the men puzzled over it. They concluded that the skipper meant
to obtain their imprisonment at the next British port they should touch for mutinous conduct,
and, knowing he was a man of his word, they assumed their best behaviour.

Captain Anderson had not changed for the better. Hitherto he had maintained a firmness of discipline
boarding upon severity, and he certainly had never relaxed from that attitude. Now he had become
an incomprehensible mixture of indulgence and cruelty. The two elements were incompatible,
and the more intelligent of his officers were not long in perceiving that there was a vicious
and variable wind in their superior's moral atmosphere, under which his canvas strained or
flapped unaccountably. They imagined, to pursue their own figure, that his hand did not grasp
the reason tiller with its customary grip, and that his bark was left more or less to the conflicting
guidance of other influences. Many a time since his departure from England had the old sailor
been stung with remorse at the unwritten tenor of his present commission. He would frequently
try to look the whole thing in the face--would endeavour to account for the acceptance of an
office against which his whole self revolted. He would recite the interview in the Billiter
Street chambers with his employer, passing rapidly over the preliminary parts until he came
to the REWARD. No! he was not false enough or euphemistic enough to call it a reward; he would
regard it as a bribe. But he could never get further. He always grounded on his reef of gold,
and no tide of indignation or regret, no generous current of honour, had power to sweep him
off again into the saving waters. Here the fierce rays of desire shot down upon the resplendent
heap, whose reflected glory filled the whole vision of the water with its lustre. Blame him
not too much, nor it. For, after all, man is but man, and gold is a thing of comfort.

But had Captain Anderson followed his mental inquiries to a conclusion, had he demonstrated
to himself the depth of moral degradation into which he must be plunged, his pride would never
have allowed him to do anything but redeem his unuttered word.

As an illustration of the captain's lately acquired habit of indulgence, the most remarkable
was his treatment of the watch on deck during the night. The man on the lookout, for instance,
was in the habit of going to sleep if the weather made it at all practicable. The rest of the
watch, some fifteen or twenty hands, followed suit, or even skulked back into the fo'castle,
there to stretch themselves out on their chests and smoke. These things the captain connived
at, and the men were only too glad of the relief to inquire too curiously into his reasons.
The main object of a sailing-ship sailor is to gain as much sleep as he can by whatever means,
and in pursuit of this end he will evade even those duties which are most essential to the
safety of the ship.

One night, during the middle watch, the captain came on deck, and took to walking up and down
with the second mate. The night was clear, though dark. The Chrysolite was close-hauled on
the starboard tack, and was making good headway under a clinking breeze. She was an old-fashioned,
frigate-built, full-rigged ship, such as one seldom happens on now, her quarter-galleries,
chain-plates, to' gallant bulwarks, and single topsail-yards being all out of date among the
ship-builders of to-day. It has been said that she had "rare lines," and the remark was just.
A more imposing pile of timber was possibly never floated. She had plenty of beam to cope with
the South Atlantic wave-giants, and not too much sheer. Her fiddle-stem was gracefully cut,
and harmonised to perfection with the slight rake aft of her lofty masts. Her spars, also,
were finely proportioned to the breadth of her hull. So that, with her canvas spread in an
unwavering breeze, the Chrysolite was a stately creature and "a thing of beauty."

"Mr. Grant," said the captain, addressing his subordinate officer, "be good enough to take
a star and work out the ship's position."

The second mate quickly brought his sextant, and took the altitude of a star convenient for
his purpose. He then went below to the cabin to perform his calculations. The lookout man,
a ready sleeper, was in a heavy slumber, upon which the stiffening breeze made no effect. The
rest of the watch had disappeared in the customary fashion. Captain Anderson was practically
alone on deck.

He walked forward, leaned over the weather-rail, and directed his glass. He saw just exactly
what he expected to see. There, right ahead in the distance, the binoculars showed a long,
thin streak of sparkling silver, appearing like a lightning flash held fast between the darkness
and the deep sea. It was phosphorescent water playing on a sand-bank.

Anderson put the glass into his pocket. He was sullen and determined. He stood motionless for
full half an hour, trying to repress the workings of an aroused conscience; but his thoughts
would not let him alone. There was something behind them, some new sensations, which set them
buzzing in his mind. These sensations were his finest feelings--ennobling emotions which had
been cramped in the grip of discipline for forty years. He could not comprehend it, but he
found himself pursuing a train of thoughts of finer sensibility than he had ever experienced,
and in which the great bribe had no place. He foreshadowed in his mind's eye the tragic events
over which he was now presiding. He foresaw the danger to life and limb with a fresh clearness
of vision. He pictured to himself the possible agonies of his fellow-creatures (never once
thinking of his own) with a sentiment much akin to pity--strong, too, but not sufficiently
strong to overcome that unbending guide which forbade him for honour's sake to go back upon
his promise. Then there was the doom of the ship itself--

The man is not angry, much less fearful; but his lips are quivering and his nostrils widening
with a passion hitherto unknown. He sees the picture vividly--a majestic, gallant ship done
to destruction; a rich, ruined seaman wandering on earth a broken heart in a dishonoured bosom.
Not only a gallant ship, but a lifelong pride and the fulness of a heart's desire swept recklessly
into limbo. Here, at last, had his love revealed itself.

"No, by God, she SHALL not perish!"

With a rapid movement he gains the fo'castle, and roars into it, "All hands 'bout ship! Quick
now, for your very lives!"

