All together, they are few and grouped like the units of some fabulous barbaric stronghold.
Fitted by size and majesty to be the climax of a mighty range, the Tetons concentrate their
all in this one giant group. Quickly, north and south, they subside and pass. They are a granite
island in a sea of plain.

Seen across the lake a dozen miles which seem but three, these clustered steepled temples rise
sheer from the water. Their flanks are snow-streaked still in August, their shoulders hung
with glaciers, their spires bare and shining. A greater contrast to the land from which we
came and to which we presently return cannot be imagined. Geologically, the two have nothing
in common. Scenically, the Tetons set off and complete the spectacle of the Yellowstone.

XI

THREE MONSTERS OF HAWAII

HAWAII NATIONAL PARK, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. AREA, 118 SQUARE MILES

If this chapter is confined to the three volcano tops which Congress reserved on the islands
of Hawaii and Maui in 1917, wonderful though these are, it will describe a small part indeed
of the wide range of novelty, charm, and beauty which will fall to the lot of those who visit
the Hawaii National Park. One of the great advantages enjoyed by this national park, as indeed
by Mount McKinley's, is its location in a surrounding of entire novelty, so that in addition
to the object of his visit, itself so supremely worth while, the traveller has also the pleasure
of a trip abroad.

In novelty at least the Hawaii National Park has the advantage over the Alaskan park because
it involves the life and scenery of the tropics. We can find snow-crowned mountains and winding
glaciers at home, but not equatorial jungles, sandalwood groves, and surf-riding.

Enormous as this element of charm unquestionably is, this is not the place to sing the pleasures
of the Hawaiian Islands. Their palm-fringed horizons, surf-edged coral reefs, tropical forests
and gardens, plantations of pineapple and sugar-cane are as celebrated as their rainbows, earthquakes,
and graceful girls dancing under tropical stars to the languorous ukelele.

Leaving these and kindred spectacles to the steamship circulars and the library shelf, it is
our part to note that the Hawaii National Park possesses the fourth largest volcanic crater
in the world, whose aspect at sunrise is one of the world's famous spectacles, the largest
active volcano in the world, and a lake of turbulent, glowing, molten lava, "the House of Everlasting
Fire," which fills the beholder with awe.

It was not at all, then, the gentle poetic aspects of the Hawaiian Islands which led Congress
to create a national park there, though these form its romantic, contrasted setting. It was
the extraordinary volcanic exhibit, that combination of thrilling spectacles of Nature's colossal
power which for years have drawn travellers from the four quarters of the earth. The Hawaii
National Park includes the summits of Haleakala, on the island of Maui, and Mauna Loa and Kilauea,
on the island of Hawaii.

Spain claims the discovery of these delectable isles by Juan Gaetano, in 1555, but their formal
discovery and exploration fell to the lot of Captain James Cook, in 1778. The Hawaiians thought
him a god and loaded him with the treasures of the islands, but on his return the following
year his illness and the conduct of his crew ashore disillusioned them; they killed him and
burned his flesh, but their priests deified his bones, nevertheless. Parts of these were recovered
later and a monument was erected over them. Then civil wars raged until all the tribes were
conquered, at the end of the eighteenth century, by one chieftain, Kamehameha, who became king.
His descendants reigned until 1874 when, the old royal line dying out, Kalakaua was elected
his successor.

From this time the end hastened. A treaty with the United States ceded Pearl Harbor as a coaling-station
and entered American goods free of duty, in return for which Hawaiian sugar and a few other
products entered the United States free. This established the sugar industry on a large and
permanent scale and brought laborers from China, Japan, the Azores, and Madeira. More than
ten thousand Portuguese migrated to the islands, and the native population began a comparative
decrease which still continues.

After Kalakaua's death, his sister Liliuokalani succeeding him in 1891, the drift to the United
States became rapid. When President Cleveland refused to annex the islands, a republic was
formed in 1894, but the danger from Japanese immigration became so imminent that in 1898, during
the Spanish-American War, President McKinley yielded to the Hawaiian request and the islands
were annexed to the United States by resolution of Congress.

The setting for the picture of our island-park will be complete with several facts about its
physical origin. The Hawaiian Islands rose from the sea in a series of volcanic eruptions.
Originally, doubtless, the greater islands were simple cones emitting lava, ash, and smoke,
which coral growths afterward enlarged and enriched. Kauai was the first to develop habitable
conditions, and the island southeast of it followed in order. Eight of the twelve are now habitable.

The most eastern island of the group is Hawaii. It is also much the largest. This has three
volcanoes. Mauna Loa, greatest of the three, and also the greatest volcanic mass in the world,
is nearly the centre of the island; Kilauea lies a few miles east of it; the summits of both
are included in the national park. Mauna Kea, a volcanic cone of great beauty in the north
centre of the island, forming a triangle with the other two, is not a part of the national park.

Northwest of Hawaii across sixty miles or more of salt water is the island of Maui, second
largest of the group. In its southern part rises the distinguished volcano of Haleakala, whose
summit and world-famous crater is the third member of the national park. The other habited
islands, in order westward, are Kahoolawe, Lanai, Molokai, Oahu, Kauai, and Niihau; no portions
of these are included in the park. Kahoolawe, Lanai, and Niihau are much the smallest of the group.

HALEAKALA

Of the three volcanic summits which concern us, Haleakala is nearest the principal port of
Honolulu, though not always the first visited. Its slopes nearly fill the southern half of
the island of Maui.

The popular translation of the name Haleakala is "The House of the Sun"; literally the word
means "The House Built by the Sun." The volcano is a monster of more than ten thousand feet,
which bears upon its summit a crater of a size and beauty that make it one of the world's show-places.
This crater is seven and a half miles long by two and a third miles wide. Only three known
craters exceed Haleakala's in size. Aso san, the monster crater of Japan, largest by far in
the world, is fourteen miles long by ten wide and contains many farms. Lago di Bolseno, in
Italy, next in size, measures eight and a half by seven and a half miles; and Monte Albano,
also in Italy, eight by seven miles.

Exchanging your automobile for a saddle-horse at the volcano's foot, you spend the afternoon
in the ascent. Wonderful indeed, looking back, is the growing arc of plantation and sea, islands
growing upon the horizon, Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa lifting distant snow-tipped peaks. You spend
the night in a rest-house on the rim of the crater, but not until you have seen the spectacle
of sunset; and in the gray of the morning you are summoned to the supreme spectacle of sunrise.
Thousands have crossed seas for Haleakala's sunrise.

That first view of the crater from the rim is one never to be forgotten. Its floor lies two
thousand feet below, an enormous rainless, rolling plain from which rise thirteen volcanic
cones, clean-cut, as regular in form as carven things. Several of these are seven hundred feet
in height. "It must have been awe-inspiring," writes Castle, "when its cones were spouting
fire, and rivers of scarlet molten lava crawled along the floor."

The stillness of this spot emphasizes its emotional effect. A word spoken ordinarily loud is
like a shout. You can hear the footsteps of the goats far down upon the crater floor. Upon
this floor grow plants known nowhere else; they are famous under the name of Silver Swords--yucca-like
growths three or four feet high whose drooping filaments of bloom gleam like polished silver
stilettos.

When Mark Twain saw the crater, "vagrant white clouds came drifting along, high over the sea
and valley; then they came in couples and groups; then in imposing squadrons; gradually joining
their forces, they banked themselves solidly together a thousand feet under us and totally
shut out land and ocean; not a vestige of anything was left in view, but just a little of the
rim of the crater circling away from the pinnacle whereon we sat, for a ghostly procession
of wanderers from the filmy hosts without had drifted through a chasm in the crater wall and
filed round and round, and gathered and sunk and blended together till the abyss was stored
to the brim with a fleecy fog. Thus banked, motion ceased, and silence reigned. Clear to the
horizon, league on league, the snowy folds, with shallow creases between, and with here and
there stately piles of vapory architecture lifting themselves aloft out of the common plain--some
near at hand, some in the middle distances, and others relieving the monotony of the remote
solitudes. There was little conversation, for the impressive scene overawed speech. I felt
like the Last Man, neglected of the judgment, and left pinnacled in mid-heaven, a forgotten
relic of a vanished world."

The extraordinary perfection of this desert crater is probably due to two causes. Vents which
tapped it far down the volcano's flanks prevented its filling with molten lava; absence of
rain has preserved its walls intact and saved its pristine beauty from the defacement of erosion.

Haleakala has its legend, and this Jack London has sifted to its elements and given us in "The
Cruise of the Snark." I quote:

"It is told that long ago, one Maui, the son of Hina, lived on what is now known as West Maui.
His mother, Hina, employed her time in the making of kapas. She must have made them at night,
for her days were occupied in trying to dry the kapas. Each morning, and all morning, she toiled
at spreading them out in the sun. But no sooner were they out than she began taking them in
in order to have them all under shelter for the night. For know that the days were shorter
then than now. Maui watched his mother's futile toil and felt sorry for her. He decided to
do something--oh, no, not to help her hang out and take in the kapas. He was too clever for
that. His idea was to make the sun go slower. Perhaps he was the first Hawaiian astronomer.
At any rate, he took a series of observations of the sun from various parts of the island.
His conclusion was that the sun's path was directly across Haleakala. Unlike Joshua, he stood
in no need of divine assistance. He gathered a huge quantity of cocoanuts, from the fibre of
which he braided a stout cord, and in one end of which he made a noose, even as the cowboys
of Haleakala do to this day.

"Next he climbed into the House of the Sun. When the sun came tearing along the path, bent
on completing its journey in the shortest time possible, the valiant youth threw his lariat
around one of the sun's largest and strongest beams. He made the sun slow down some; also,
he broke the beam short off. And he kept on roping and breaking off beams till the sun said
it was willing to listen to reason. Maui set forth his terms of peace, which the sun accepted,
agreeing to go more slowly thereafter. Wherefore Hina had ample time in which to dry her kapas,
and the days are longer than they used to be, which last is quite in accord with the teachings
of modern astronomy."

MAUNA LOA

Sixty miles south of Maui, Hawaii, largest of the island group, contains the two remaining
parts of our national park. From every point of view Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, both snow-crowned
monsters approaching fourteen thousand feet of altitude, dominate the island. But Mauna Kea
is not a part of the national park; Kilauea, of less than a third its height, shares that honor
with Mauna Loa. Of the two, Kilauea is much the older, and doubtless was a conspicuous figure
in the old landscape. It has been largely absorbed in the immense swelling bulk of Mauna Loa,
which, springing later from the island soil near by, no doubt diverting Kilauea's vents far
below sea-level, has sprawled over many miles. So nearly has the younger absorbed the older,
that Kilauea's famous pit of molten lava seems almost to lie upon Mauna Loa's slope.

Mauna Loa soars 13,675 feet. Its snowy dome shares with Mauna Kea, which rises even higher,
the summit honors of the islands. From Hilo, the principal port of the island of Hawaii, Mauna
Loa suggests the back of a leviathan, its body hidden in the mists. The way up, through forests
of ancient mahogany and tangles of giant tree-fern, then up many miles of lava slopes, is one
of the inspiring tours in the mountain world. The summit crater, Mokuaweoweo, three-quarters
of a mile long by a quarter mile wide, is as spectacular in action as that of Kilauea.

This enormous volcanic mass has grown of its own output in comparatively a short time. For
many decades it has been extraordinarily frequent in eruption. Every five or ten years it gets
into action with violence, sometimes at the summit, oftener of recent years since the central
vent has lengthened, at weakened places on its sides. Few volcanoes have been so regularly
and systematically studied.

KILAUEA

The most spectacular exhibit of the Hawaii National Park is the lake of fire in the crater
of Kilauea.

Kilauea is unusual among volcanoes. It follows few of the popular conceptions. Older than the
towering Mauna Loa, its height is only four thousand feet. Its lavas have found vents through
its flanks, which they have broadened and flattened. Doubtless its own lavas have helped Mauna
Loa's to merge the two mountains into one. It is no longer explosive like the usual volcano;
since 1790, when it destroyed a native army, it has ejected neither rocks nor ashes. Its crater
is no longer definitely bowl-shaped. From the middle of a broad flat plain, which really is
what is left of the ancient great crater, drops a pit with vertical sides within which boil
its lavas.

The pit, the lake of fire, is Halemaumau, commonly translated "The House of Everlasting Fire";
the correct translation is "The House of the Maumau Fern," whose leaf is twisted and contorted
like some forms of lava. Two miles and a little more from Halemaumau, on a part of the ancient
crater wall, stands the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, which is under the control of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. The observatory was built for the special purpose of studying the
pit of fire, the risings and fallings of whose lavas bear a relationship toward the volcanism
of Mauna Loa which is scientifically important, but which we need not discuss here.

The traveller enters Hawaii by steamer through Hilo. He reaches the rim of Kilauea by automobile,
an inspiring run of thirty-one miles over a road of volcanic glass, bordered with vegetation
strange to eyes accustomed only to that of the temperate zone--brilliant hibiscus, native hardwood
trees with feathery pompons for blossoms, and the giant ferns which tower overhead. On the
rim are the hotels and the observatory. Steam-jets emerge at intervals, and hot sulphur banks
exhibit rich yellows. From there the way descends to the floor of the crater and unrolls a
ribbon of flower-bordered road seven miles long to the pit of fire. By trail, the distance
is only two miles and a half across long stretches of hard lava congealed in ropes and ripples
and strange contortions. Where else is a spectacle one-tenth as appalling so comfortably and
quickly reached?

Halemaumau is an irregular pit a thousand feet long with perpendicular sides. Its depth varies.
Sometimes one looks hundreds of feet down to the boiling surface; sometimes its lavas overrun
the top. The fumes of sulphur are very strong, with the wind in your face. At these times,
too, the air is extremely hot. There are cracks in the surrounding lava where you can scorch
paper or cook a beefsteak.

Many have been the attempts to describe it. Not having seen it myself, I quote two here; one
a careful picture by a close student of the spectacle, Mr. William R. Castle, Jr., of Honolulu;
the other a rapid sketch by Mark Twain.

"By daylight," writes Castle, "the lake of fire is a greenish-yellow, cut with ragged cracks
of red that look like pale streaks of stationary lightning across its surface. It is restless,
breathing rapidly, bubbling up at one point and sinking down in another; throwing up sudden
fountains of scarlet molten lava that play a few minutes and subside, leaving shimmering mounds
which gradually settle to the level surface of the lake, turning brown and yellow as they sink.

"But as the daylight fades the fires of the pit shine more brightly. Mauna Loa, behind, becomes
a pale, gray-blue, insubstantial dome, and overhead stars begin to appear. As darkness comes
the colors on the lake grow so intense that they almost hurt. The fire is not only red; it
is blue and purple and orange and green. Blue flames shimmer and dart about the edges of the
pit, back and forth across the surface of the restless mass. Sudden fountains paint blood-red
the great plume of sulphur smoke that rises constantly, to drift away across the poisoned desert
of Kau. Sometimes the spurts of lava are so violent, so exaggerated by the night, that one
draws back terrified lest some atom of their molten substance should spatter over the edge
of the precipice. Sometimes the whole lake is in motion. Waves of fire toss and battle with
each other and dash in clouds of bright vermilion spray against the black sides of the pit.
Sometimes one of these sides falls in with a roar that echoes back and forth, and mighty rocks
are swallowed in the liquid mass of fire that closes over them in a whirlpool, like water over
a sinking ship.

"Again everything is quiet, a thick scum forms over the surface of the lake, dead, like the
scum on the surface of a lonely forest pool. Then it shivers. Flashes of fire dart from side
to side. The centre bursts open and a huge fountain of lava twenty feet thick and fifty high,
streams into the air and plays for several minutes, waves of blinding fire flowing out from
it, dashing against the sides until the black rocks are starred all over with bits of scarlet.
To the spectator there is, through it all, no sense of fear. So intense, so tremendous is the
spectacle that silly little human feelings find no place. All sensations are submerged in a
sense of awe."

Mark Twain gazed into Halemaumau's terrifying depths. "It looked," he writes, "like a colossal
railroad-map of the State of Massachusetts done in chain lightning on a midnight sky. Imagine
it--imagine a coal-black sky shivered into a tangled network of angry fire!

"Here and there were gleaming holes a hundred feet in diameter, broken in the dark crust, and
in them the melted lava--the color a dazzling white just tinged with yellow--was boiling and
surging furiously; and from these holes branched numberless bright torrents in many directions,
like the spokes of a wheel, and kept a tolerably straight course for a while and then swept
round in huge rainbow curves, or made a long succession of sharp worm-fence angles, which looked
precisely like the fiercest jagged lightning. Those streams met other streams, and they mingled
with and crossed and recrossed each other in every conceivable direction, like skate-tracks
on a popular skating-ground. Sometimes streams twenty or thirty feet wide flowed from the holes
to some distance without dividing--and through the opera-glasses we could see that they ran
down small, steep hills and were genuine cataracts of fire, white at their source, but soon
cooling and turning to the richest red, grained with alternate lines of black and gold. Every
now and then masses of the dark crust broke away and floated slowly down these streams like
rafts down a river.

"Occasionally, the molten lava flowing under the superincumbent crust broke through--split
a dazzling streak, from five hundred to a thousand feet long, like a sudden flash of lightning,
and then acre after acre of the cold lava parted into fragments, turned up edgewise like cakes
of ice when a great river breaks up, plunged downward, and were swallowed in the crimson caldron.
Then the wide expanse of the 'thaw' maintained a ruddy glow for a while, but shortly cooled
and became black and level again. During a 'thaw' every dismembered cake was marked by a glittering
white border which was superbly shaded inward by aurora borealis rays, which were a flaming
yellow where they joined the white border, and from thence toward their points tapered into
glowing crimson, then into a rich, pale carmine, and finally into a faint blush that held its
own a moment and then dimmed and turned black. Some of the streams preferred to mingle together
in a tangle of fantastic circles, and then they looked something like the confusion of ropes
one sees on a ship's deck when she has just taken in sail and dropped anchor--provided one
can imagine those ropes on fire.

"Through the glasses, the little fountains scattered about looked very beautiful. They boiled,
and coughed, and spluttered, and discharged sprays of stringy red fire--of about the consistency
of mush, for instance--from ten to fifteen feet into the air, along with a shower of brilliant
white sparks--a quaint and unnatural mingling of gouts of blood and snowflakes."

One can descend the sides and approach surprisingly close to the flaming surface, the temperature
of which, by the way, is 1750 degrees Fahrenheit.

Such is "The House of Everlasting Fire" to-day. But who can say what it will be a year or a
decade hence? A clogging or a shifting of the vents below sea-level, and Kilauea's lake of
fire may become again explosive. Who will deny that Kilauea may not soar even above Mauna Loa?
Stranger things have happened before this in the Islands of Surprise.

THE SEDIMENTARY NATIONAL PARKS

XII

ON SEDIMENTARY ROCK IN SCENERY

The national parks which are wrought in sedimentary rocks are Glacier, Mesa Verde, Hot Springs,
Platt, Wind Cave, Sully's Hill, and Grand Canyon. Zion National Monument is carved from sedimentary
rock; also several distinguished reservations in our southwest which conserve natural bridges
and petrified forests.

Sedimentary rocks have highly attractive scenic quality. Lying in strata usually horizontal
but often inclined by earth movements, sometimes even standing on end, they form marked and
pleasing contrasts with the heavy massing of the igneous rocks and the graceful undulations
and occasional sharp-pointed summits of the lavas.

As distinguished from igneous rocks, which form under pressure in the earth's hot interior,
and from lava, which results from volcanic eruption when fluid igneous rocks are released from
pressure, sedimentary rocks are formed by the solidification of precipitations in water, like
limestone; or from material resulting from rock disintegrations washed down by streams, like
sandstone and shale. The beds in which they lie one above another exhibit a wide range of tint
and texture, often forming spectacles of surpassing beauty and grandeur.

These strata tend to cleave vertically, sometimes producing an appearance suggestive of masonry,
frequently forming impressive cliffs; but often they lie in unbroken beds of great area. When
a number of well-defined strata cleave vertically, and one end of the series sags below the
other, or lifts above it, the process which geologists call faulting, the scenic effect is
varied and striking; sometimes, as in Glacier National Park, it is puzzling and amazing.

Many granitic and volcanic landscapes are variegated in places by accidental beds of sedimentary
rock; and conversely occasional sedimentary landscapes are set off by intrusions of igneous rocks.

Besides variety of form, sedimentary rocks furnish a wide range of color derived from mineral
dyes dissolved out of rocks by erosion. The gorgeous tint of the Vermilion Cliff in Utah and
Arizona, the reds and greens of the Grand Canyon and Glacier National Park, the glowing cliffs
of the Canyon de Chelly, and the variegated hues of the Painted Desert are examples which have
become celebrated.

Geologists distinguish many kinds of sedimentary rocks. Scenically, we need consider only four:
limestone, conglomerate, sandstone, and shale.

Limestone is calcium carbonate derived principally from sea-water, sometimes from fresh water,
either by the action of microscopic organisms which absorb it for their shells, or occasionally
by direct precipitation from saturated solutions. The sediment from organisms, which is the
principal source of American scenic limestones, collects as ooze in shallow lakes or seas,
and slowly hardens when lifted above the water-level. Limestone is a common and prominent scenic
rock; generally it is gray or blue and weathers pale yellow. Moisture seeping in from above
often reduces soluble minerals which drain away, leaving caves which sometimes have enormous size.

The other sedimentary rocks which figure prominently in landscape are products of land erosion
which rivers sweep into seas or lakes, where they are promptly deposited. The coarse gravels
which naturally fall first become conglomerate when cemented by the action of chemicals in
water. The finer sandy particles become sandstone. The fine mud, which deposits last, eventually
hardens into shale.

Shale has many varieties, but is principally hardened clay; it tends to split into slate-like
plates each the thickness of its original deposit. It is usually dull brown or slate color,
but sometimes, as in Glacier National Park and the Grand Canyon, shows a variety of more or
less brilliant colors and, by weathering, a wide variety of kindred tints.

Sandstone, which forms wherever moving water or wind has collected sands, and pressure or chemical
action has cemented them, is usually buff, but sometimes is brilliantly colored.

The processes of Nature have mixed the earth's scenic elements in seemingly inextricable confusion,
and the task of the geologist has been colossal. Fortunately for us, the elements of scenery
are few, and their larger combinations broad and simple. Once the mind has grasped the outline
and the processes, and the eye has learned to distinguish elements and recognize forms, the
world is recreated for us.

XIII

GLACIERED PEAKS AND PAINTED SHALES

GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, NORTHWESTERN MONTANA. AREA, 1,534 SQUARE MILES

I

