'Yet it must be acknowledged that there are higher duties than those which we owe to the state,
even as there is a higher sovereign to whom we owe allegiance than the head of the state, whether
that head be king, senate, or emperor. Man is not only a subject and a citizen, he is first
of all the creature of God, and amenable to his laws. When therefore there is a conflict between
the laws of God and the king, who can doubt which are to be obeyed?--'

'Who does not see,' cried Porphyrius vehemently, 'that in such principles there lurks the blackest
treason? for who but themselves are to judge when the laws of the two sovereigns do thus conflict?
and what law then may be promulged, but to them it may be an offence?'

'Let not the learned Porphyrius,' resumed Probus, 'rest in but a part of what I say. Let him
hear the whole, and then deny the principle if he can. I say, when the law of God and the law
of man are opposite the one to the other, we are not to hesitate which to obey and which to
break; our first allegiance is due to Heaven. And it is true that we ourselves are to be the
judges in the case. But then we are judges under the same stern laws of conscience toward God,
which compel us to violate the law of the empire, though death in its most terrific form be
the penalty. And is it likely therefore that we shall, for frivolous causes, or imaginary ones,
or none at all, hold it to be our duty to rebel against the law of the land? To think so were
to rate us low indeed. They may surely be trusted to make this decision, whose fidelity to
conscience in other emergences brings down upon them so heavy a load of calamity. I may appeal
moreover to all, I think, who hear me, of the common faith, whether they themselves would not
hold by the same principle? Suppose the case that your supreme god--"Jupiter greatest and best"--or
the god beyond and above him, in whom your philosophers have faith--revealed a law, requiring
what the law of the empire forbids, must you not, would you not, if your religion were anything
more than a mere pretence, obey the god rather than the man? Although therefore, great Emperor,
we blame the honest Macer for his precipitancy, yet it ought to be, and is, the determination
of us all to yield obedience to no law which violates the law of Heaven. We having received
the faith of Christ in trust, to be by us dispensed to mankind, and believing the welfare of
mankind to depend upon the wide extension of it, we will rather die than shut it up in our
own bosoms--we will rather die, than live with our tongues tied and silent--our limbs fettered
and bound! We must speak, or we will die--'

Porphyrius again sprang from his seat with intent to speak, but the Emperor restrained him.

'Contend not now, Porphyrius; let us hear the Christian. I have given him his freedom. Infringe
it not.'

'I will willingly, noble Emperor,' said Probus, 'respond to whatsoever the learned Tyrian may
propose. All I can desire is this only, that the religion of Christ may be seen, by those who
are here, to be what it truly is; and it may be, that the questions or the objections of the
philosopher shall show this more perfectly than a continued discourse.'

The Emperor, however, making a sign, he went on.

'We have also been charged, O Emperor, with vices and crimes, committed at both our social
and our religious meetings, at which nature revolts, which are even beyond in grossness what
have been ever ascribed to the most flagitious of mankind.'--Probus here enumerated the many
rumors which had long been and still were current in Rome, and, especially by the lower orders,
believed; and drew then such a picture of the character, lives, manners, and morals of the
Christians, for the truth of which he appealed openly to noble and distinguished persons among
the Romans then present,--not of the Christian faith, but who were yet well acquainted with
their character and condition, and who would not refuse to testify to what he had said--that
there could none have been present in that vast assembly but who, if there were any sense of
justice within them, must have dismissed forever from their minds, if they had ever entertained
them, the slanderous fictions that had filled them.

To report to you, Fausta, this part of his defence, must be needless, and could not prove otherwise
than painful. He then also refuted in the same manner other common objections alleged against
the Christians and their worship; the lateness of its origin; its beggarly simplicity; the
low and ignorant people who alone or chiefly, both in Rome and throughout the world, have received
it; the fierce divisions and disputes among the Christians themselves; the uncertainty of its
doctrines; the rigor of its morality, as unsuited to mankind; as also its spiritual worship;
the slowness of its progress, and the little likelihood that, if God were its author, he would
leave it to be trodden under foot and so nearly annihilated by the very people to whom he was
sending it; these and other similar things usually urged against the Christians, and now for
the first time, it is probable, by most of the Romans present, heard, refuted, and explained,
did Probus set forth, both with brevity and force; making nothing tedious by reason of a frivolous
minuteness, nor yet omitting a single topic or argument, which it was due to the cause he defended,
to bring before the minds of that august assembly. He then ended his appeal in the following
manner:

'And now, great Emperor, must you have seen, in what I have already said, what the nature and
character of this religion is; for in denying and disproving the charges that have been brought
against it, I have, in most particulars, alleged and explained some opposite truth or doctrine,
by which it is justly characterized. But that you may be informed the more exactly for what
it is you are about to persecute and destroy us, and for what it is that we cheerfully undergo
torture and death sooner than surrender or deny it, listen yet a moment longer. You have heard
that we are named after Jesus, Jesus of Nazareth in Galilee, who, in the reign of Tiberius,
was born in Judea, and there lived and taught, a prophet and messenger of God, till he was
publicly crucified by his bitter enemies the Jews. We do not doubt, nay, we all steadfastly
believe, that this Jesus was the Son of the Most High God, by reason of his wonderful endowments
and his delegated office as the long-looked-for Messiah of the Jews. As the evidences of his
great office and of his divine origin, he performed those miracles that filled with astonishment
the whole Jewish nation, and strangers from all parts of the world; and so wrought even upon
the mind of your great predecessor, the Emperor Tiberius, that he would fain receive him into
the number of the gods of Rome. And why, O Emperor, was this great personage sent forth into
the world, encircled by the rays of divine power and wisdom and goodness, an emanation of the
self-existent and infinite God? And why do we so honor him, and cleave to him, that we are
ready to offer our lives in sacrifice, while we go forth as preachers of his faith, making
him known to all nations as the universal Saviour and Redeemer? This Jesus came into the world,
and lived and taught; was preceded by so long a preparation of prophetic annunciation, and
accompanied by so sublime demonstrations of almighty power, to this end, and to this end only,
that he might save us from our sins, and from those penal consequences in this world and in
worlds to come, which are bound to them by the stern decrees of fate. Yes, Aurelian, Jesus
came only that he might deliver mankind from the thraldom of every kind of wickedness, and
raise them to a higher condition of virtue and happiness. He was a great moral and religious
teacher and reformer, endowed with the wisdom and power of the supreme God. He himself toiled
only in Judea; but he came a benefactor of Rome too--of Rome as well as of Judea. He came to
purge it of its pollutions; to check in their growth those customs and vices which seem destined,
reaching their natural height and size, to overlay and bury in final ruin the city and the
empire; he came to make us citizens of Heaven through the virtues which his doctrine should
build up in the soul, and so citizens of Rome more worthy of that name than any who ever went
before. He came to heal, to mend, to reform the state; not to set up a kingdom in hostility
to this, but in unison with it; an inward, invisible kingdom in every man's heart, which should
be as the soul of the other.

'It was to reform the morals of the state, to save it from itself, that you, Aurelian, in the
first years of your reign, applied those energies that have raised the empire to more than
its ancient glory. You aimed to infuse a love of justice and of peace, to abate the extravagances
of the times, to stem the tide of corruption that seemed about to bear down upon its foul streams
the empire itself, tossing upon its surface a wide sea of ruin. It was a great work--too great
for man. It needed a divine strength and a more than human wisdom. These were not yours; and
it is no wonder that the work did not go on to its completion. Jesus is a reformer; of Rome
and of the world also. The world is his theatre of action; but with him there is leagued the
arm and the power of the Supreme God; and the work which he attempts shall succeed. It cannot
but succeed. It is not so much he, Jesus of Nazareth, who has come forth upon this great errand
of mercy and love to mankind, as God himself in and through him. It is the Great God of the
Universe, who, by Jesus Christ as his agent and messenger, comes to you, and would reform and
redeem your empire, and out of that which is transitory, and by its inherent vice threatened
with decay and death, make a city and an empire which, through the energy of its virtues, shall
truly be eternal. Can you not, O Emperor, supposing the claims of this religion to a divine
origin to be just, view it with respect? Nay, could you not greet its approach to your capital
with pleasure and gratitude, seeing its aim is nothing else than this, to purify, purge, and
reform the state, to heal its wounds, cleanse its putrifying members, and infuse the element
of a new and healthier life? Methinks a true patriot and lover of Rome must rejoice when any
power approaches and offers to apply those remedies that may, with remotest probability only,
bid fair to cure the diseases of which her body is sick, nigh unto death.

'Such, Aurelian, was and is the aim of Jesus, in the religion which he brought. And of us,
who are his ministers, his messengers--who go forth bearing these glad tidings of deliverance
from sin and corruption, and of union with God--our work is the same with his. We but repeat
the lessons which he gave. Are we, in so doing, enemies of Rome? Are we not rather her truest
friends? By making men good, just, kind, and honest, are we not at the same time making them
the best citizens? Are there in Rome better citizens than the Christians?

'You will now perhaps, Aurelian, desire to be told by what instruments Christianity hopes to
work such changes. It is simply, O Emperor, by the power of truth! The religion which we preach
uses not force. Were the arm of Aurelian at this moment the arm of Probus, he could do no more
than he now does with one, which, as the world deems, is in the comparison powerless as an
infant's. In all that pertains to the soul, and its growth and purification, there must be
utmost freedom. The soul must suffer no constraint. There must be no force laid upon it, but
the force of reason and the appeal of divine truth. All that we ask or want in Rome is the
liberty of speech--the free allowance to offer to men the truth in Christ, and persuade them
to consider it. With that we will engage to reform and save the whole world. We want not to
meddle with affairs of state, nor with the citizen's relations to the state; we have naught
to do with the city, or its laws, or government, beyond what was just now stated. We desire
but the privilege to worship God according to our consciences, and labor for the moral welfare
of all who will hear our words.

'And if you would know what the truth is we impart, and by which we would save the souls of
men, and reform the empire and the world, be it known to you that we preach Jesus Christ and
him crucified, whom God raised up and sent into the world to save it by his doctrine and life,
and whom--being by the Jews hung upon a cross--God raised again from the dead. We preach him
as the Son of God with power, by whom God has been revealed to mankind in his true nature and
perfections, and through whom, he and he only is to be worshipped. In the place of Jupiter,
we bring you a revelation of the God and Father of Christ Jesus our Lord--creator of the universe,
who will call all men into judgment at last, rewarding or punishing according to what they
have done. Through Jesus, we preach also a resurrection from the dead. We show, by arguments
which cannot be refuted, that this Jesus, when he had been crucified and slain, and had lain
three days in the tomb, was called again to life, and taken up to Heaven, as an example of
what should afterwards happen to all his followers. Through him has immortality been plainly
brought to light and proved, and this transporting truth we declare wherever we go. Through
Jesus, we preach also repentance; we declare to men their wickedness; we show them what and
how great it is; and exhort them to repentance, as what can alone save them from the wrath to come.

'This, O Emperor, is the great work which we, as apostles of Jesus, have to do, to convince
the world how vile it is; how surely their wickedness, unrepented of, will work their misery
and their ruin, and so lead them away from it, and up the safe and pleasant heights of Christian
virtue. We find Rome sunk in sensuality and sin; nor only that, but ignorant of its own guilt,
dead to the wickedness into which it has fallen, and denying any obligations to a different
or better life. Such do we find, indeed, not Rome only, but the world itself, dead in trespasses
and sin. We would rouse it from this sleep of death. We desire first of all, to waken in the
souls of men a perception of the guilt of sin! a feeling of the wide departure of their lives
from the just demands of the being who made them. The prospect of immortality were nothing
without this. Longer life were but a greater evil were we not made alive to sin and righteousness.
Life on earth, Aurelian, is not the best thing, but virtuous life: so life without end is not
the best thing, but life without fault or sin. But to the necessity of such a life men are
now insensible and dead. They love the prospect of an immortal existence, but not of that purity
without which immortality were no blessing. But it is this moral regeneration--this waking
up of men dead in sin, to the life of righteousness, which is the great aim of Christianity.
Repentance! was the first word of its founder when he began preaching in Judea; it is the first
word of his followers wherever they go, and should be the last. This, O Aurelian, in few words,
is the gospel of Jesus--"Repent and live forever!"

'In the service of this gospel, and therefore of you and the world, we are content to labor
while we live, to suffer injury and reproach, and if need be, and they to whom we go will not
understand us, lay down our lives. Almost three hundred years has it appealed to mankind; and
though not with the success that should have followed upon the labor of those who have toiled
for the salvation of men, yet has it not been rejected everywhere, nor has the labor been in
vain. The fruit that has come of the seed sown is great and abundant. In every corner of the
earth are there now those who name the name of Christ. And in every place are there many more,
than meet the eye, who read our gospels, believe in them, and rejoice in the virtue and the
hope which have taken root in their souls. Here in Rome, O Aurelian, are there multitudes of
believers, whom the ear hears not, nor the eye sees, hidden away in the security of this sea
of roofs, whom the messengers of your power never could discover. Destroy us, you may; sweep
from the face of Rome every individual whom the most diligent search can find, from the gray-haired
man of fourscore to the infant that can just lisp the name of Jesus, and you have not destroyed
the Christians; the Christian church still stands--not unharmed, but founded as before upon
a rock, against which the powers of earth and hell can never prevail; and soon as this storm
shall have overblown, those other, and now secret, multitudes, of whom I speak, will come forth,
and the wilderness of the church shall blossom again as a garden in the time of spring. God
is working with us, and who therefore can prevail against us!

'Bring not then, Aurelian, upon your own soul; bring not upon Rome, the guilt that would attend
this unnecessary slaughter. It can but defer for an hour or a day the establishment of that
kingdom of righteousness, which must be established, because it is God's, and he is laying
its foundations and building its walls. Have pity too, great Emperor, upon this large multitude
of those who embrace this faith, and who will not let it go for all the terrors of your courts
and judges and engines; they will all suffer the death of Macer ere they will prove false to
their Master. Let not the horrors of that scene be renewed, nor the greater ones of an indiscriminate
massacre. I implore your compassions, not for myself, but for these many thousands, who, by
my ministry, have been persuaded to receive this faith. For them my heart bleeds; them I would
save from the death which impends. Yet it is a glorious and a happy death, to die for truth
and Christ! It is better to die so, knowing that by such death the very church itself is profited,
than to die in one's own bed, and only to one's self. So do these thousands think; and whatever
compassion I may implore for them, they would each and all, were such their fate, go with cheerful
step, as those who went to some marriage supper, to the axe, to the stake, or the cross. Christianity
cannot die but with the race itself. Its life is bound up in the life of man, and man must
be destroyed ere that can perish. Behold then, Aurelian, the labor that is thine!'

Soon as he had ceased, Porphyrius started from his seat and said,

'It is then, O Romans, just as it has ever been affirmed. The Galileans are atheists! They
believe not in the gods of Rome, nor in any in whom mankind can ever have belief. I doubt not
but they think themselves believers in a God. They think themselves to have found one better
than others have; but upon any definition, that I or you could give or understand, of atheism,
they are atheists! Their God is invisible; he is a universal spirit, like this circumambient
air; of no form, dwelling in no place. But how can that without effrontery be called a being,
which is without body and form; which is everywhere and yet nowhere; which, from the beginning
of the world has never been heard of, till by these Nazarenes he is now first brought to light,
or, if older, exists in the dreams of the dreaming Jews, whose religion, as they term it, is
so stuffed with fable, that one might not expect, after the most exact and laborious search,
to meet with so much as a grain of truth. Yet, whatever these Galileans may assert, their speech
is hardly to be received as worthy of belief, when, in their very sacred records, such things
are to be found as contradict themselves. For in one place--not to mention a thousand cases
of the like kind--it is said that Jesus, the head of this religion, on a certain occasion walked
upon the sea; when, upon sifting the narrative, it is found that it was but upon a paltry lake,
the lake of Galilee, upon which he performed that great feat!--a thing to which the magic of
which he is accused--and doubtless with justice--was plainly equal; while to walk upon the
sea might well have been beyond that science. How much of what we have heard is to be distrusted
also, concerning the love which these Nazarenes bear to Rome. We may well pray to be delivered
from the affection of those, whose love manifests itself in the singular manner of seeking
our destruction. He who loves me so well as to poison me that I may have the higher enjoyment
of Elysium, I could hardly esteem as a well-wisher or friend. These Jewish fanatics love us
after somewhat the same fashion. In the zeal of their affection they would make us heirs of
what they call their heavenly kingdom, but in the meanwhile destroy our religion, deprive us
of our ancient gods, and sap the foundations of the state.

'Romans, in spite of all you have heard of another sort, I hope you will still believe that
experience is one of your most valuable teachers, and that therefore you will be slow to forsake
opinions which have the sanction of venerable age, under which you have flourished so happily,
and your country grown to so amazing a height of glory and renown. I think you would deserve
the fate which this new-made religion would bring you to, if you abandoned the worship of a
thousand years, for the presumptuous novelty of yesterday. Not a name of greatness or honor
can be quoted of those who have adorned this foreign fiction; while all the great and good
of Greece and Rome, philosophers, moralists, historians, and poets, are to be found on the
side of Hellenism. If we cast from us that which we have experienced to be good, by what rule
and on what principle can we afterward put our trust in anything else? And it is considerable,
that which has ever been asserted of this people, and which I doubt not is true, that they
have ever been prying about with their doctrines and their mysteries among the poor and humbler
sort, among women, slaves, simple and unlearned folks, while they have never appealed to, nor
made any converts of, the great and the learned, who alone are capable of judging of the truth
of such things.

'Who are the believers here in Rome? Who knows them? Are the sacred Senate Christians? or any
distinguished for their rank? No; with exceptions, too few to be noticed, those who embrace
it are among the dregs of the people, men wholly incapable of separating true from false, and
laying properly the safe foundations of a new religion--a work too great even for philosophers.
And not only does this religion draw to itself the poor and humble and ignorant, but the base
and wicked also; persons known, while of our way, to have been notorious for their vices, have
all of a sudden joined themselves to the Christians; and whatever show of sanctity may then
have been assumed, we may well suppose there has not been much of the reality. Long may it
boast of such members, and while its brief life lasts make continually such converts from us.
As to the amazing pretences they make of their benevolence in the care of the poor, and even
of our poor, doing more offices of kindness toward them--so it is affirmed--than we ourselves--who
does not see the motive that prompts so much charity, in the good opinion they build up for
themselves in those whom they have so much obliged, and who cannot in decency do less afterward
than oblige them in turn, by joining their superstitions--superstitions of which they know
nothing before they adopt them, and as little afterward.

'But I will not, O Emperor, weary out your patience again--already so long tried--and will
only say, that the fate which has all along and everywhere befallen these people, might well
warn them that they are objects of the anger rather than the favor and love of the Lord of
Heaven, of which they so confidently make their boast. For if he loved them would he leave
them everywhere so to the rage and destruction of their enemies--to be reviled, trodden upon,
and despised, all over the earth? If these be the signs of love, what are those of hate? And
can it be that he, their Lord of Heaven, hath in store for them a world of bliss beyond this
life, who gives them here on earth scarce the sordid shelter of a cabin? In truth, they seem
to be a community living upon their imaginations. They fancy themselves favorites of Heaven--though
all the world thinks otherwise. They fancy themselves the greatest benefactors the world has
ever seen, while they are the only ones who think so. They have nothing here but persecution,
contempt, and hatred, and yet are anticipating a more glorious Elysium than the greatest and
best of earth have ever dared to hope for. We cannot but hope they may be at sometime the riddle
to themselves which they are to us. This is a benevolent wish, for their entertainment would
be great.'

When he had ended, and almost before, many voices were heard of those who wished to speak,
and Probus rose in his place to reply to what had fallen from the philosopher, but all were
alike silenced by the loud and stern command of Aurelian, who, evidently weary and impatient
of further audience of what he was so little willing to hear at all, cried out, saying,

'The Christians, Romans, have now been heard, as they desired, by one whom they themselves
appointed to set forth their doctrine. This is no school for the disputations of sophists or
philosophers or fanatics. Let Romans and Christians alike withdraw.'

Whereupon, without further words or delay, the assembly broke up.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not difficult to see that the statements and reasonings of Probus had fallen upon many
who heard them with equal surprise and delight. Every word that he uttered was heard with an
eager attention I never before saw equaled. I have omitted the greater part of what he said,
especially where he went with minuteness into an account of the history, doctrine, and precept
of our faith, knowing it to be too familiar to you to make it desirable to have it repeated.

It was in part at least owing to an unwillingness to allow Probus again to address that audience,
representing all the rank and learning of Rome, that the Emperor so hastily dissolved the assembly.
Whatever effect the hearing of Probus may have upon him or upon us, there is reason to believe
that its effects will be deep and abiding upon the higher classes of our inhabitants. They
then heard what they never heard before--a full and an honest account of what Christianity
is; and, from what I have already been informed, and gathered indeed from my own observation
at the time, they now regard it with very different sentiments.

When, late in the evening of this day, we conversed of its events, Probus being seated with
us, we indulged both in those cheering and desponding thoughts which seem to be strangely mingled
together in our present calamities.

