All this night they were beating to windward off Cape Lindo, to reach the land to the east,
and at sunrise the Admiral sighted another cape,[166-3] two and a half leagues to the east.
Having passed it, he saw that the land trended S. and S.W., and presently saw a fine high cape
in that direction, 7 leagues distant.[167-1] He would have wished to go there, but his object
was to reach the island of Babeque, which, according to the Indians, bore N.E.; so he gave
up the intention. He could not go to Babeque either, because the wind was N.E. Looking to the
S.E., he saw land, which was a very large island, according to the information of the Indians,
well peopled, and called by them Bohio.[167-2] The Admiral says that the inhabitants of Cuba,
or Juana,[167-3] and of all the other islands, are much afraid of the inhabitants of Bohio,
because they say that they eat people. The Indians relate other things, by signs, which are
very wonderful; but the Admiral did not believe them. He only inferred that those of Bohio
must have more cleverness and cunning to be able to capture the others, who, however, are very
poor-spirited. The wind veered from N.E. to North, so the Admiral determined to leave Cuba,
or Juana, which, up to this time, he had supposed to be the mainland, on account of its size,
having coasted along it for 120 leagues.[167-4] He shaped a course S.E. b. E., the land he
had sighted bearing S.E.; taking this precaution because the wind always veered from N. to
N.E. again, and thence to east and S.E. The wind increased, and he made all sail, the current
helping them; so that they were making 8 miles an hour from the morning until one in the afternoon
(which is barely 6 hours, for they say that the nights were nearly 15 hours). Afterwards they
went 10 miles an hour, making good 88 miles by sunset, equal to 22 leagues, all to the S.E.
As night was coming on, the Admiral ordered the caravel Niña, being a good sailer, to proceed
ahead, so as to sight a harbor at daylight. Arriving at the entrance of a port which was like
the Bay of Cadiz, while it was still dark, a boat was sent in to take soundings, which showed
a light from a lantern. Before the Admiral could beat up to where the caravel was, hoping that
the boat would show a leading-mark for entering the port, the candle in the lantern went out.
The caravel, not seeing the light, showed a light to the Admiral, and, running down to him,
related what had happened. The boat's crew then showed another light, and the caravel made
for it; but the Admiral could not do so, and was standing off and on all night.

Thursday, 6th of December

When daylight arrived the Admiral found himself four leagues from the port, to which he gave
the name of Puerto Maria,[168-1] and to a fine cape bearing S.S.W. he gave the name of Cabo
de la Estrella.[168-2] It seemed to be the furthest point of the island towards the south,
distant 28 miles. Another point of land, like an island, appeared about 40 miles to the east.
To another fine point, 54 miles to the east, he gave the name of Cabo del Elefante,[168-3]
and he called another, 28 miles to the S.E., Cabo de Cinquin. There was a great opening or
bay, which might be the mouth of a river,[168-4] distant 20 miles. It seemed that between Cabo
del Elefante and that of Cinquin there was a great opening,[168-5] and some of the sailors
said that it formed an island, to which the name of Isla de la Tortuga[168-6] was given. The
island appeared to be very high land, not closed in with mountains, but with beautiful valleys,
well cultivated, the crops appearing like the wheat on the plain of Cordova in May. That night
they saw many fires, and much smoke, as if from workshops,[169-1] in the day time; it appeared
to be a signal made by people who were at war. All the coast of this land trends to the east.

At the hour of vespers the Admiral reached this port, to which he gave the name of Puerto de
San Nicolas, in honor of St. Nicholas, whose day it was;[169-2] and on entering it he was astonished
at its beauty and excellence. Although he had given great praise to the ports of Cuba, he had
no doubt that this one not only equalled, but excelled them, and none of them are like it.
At the entrance it is a league and a half wide, and a vessel's head should be turned S.S.E.,
though, owing to the great width, she may be steered on any bearing that is convenient; proceeding
on this course for two leagues.[169-3] On the south side of the entrance the coast forms a
cape, and thence the course is almost the same as far as a point where there is a fine beach,
and a plain covered with fruit-bearing trees of many kinds; so that the Admiral thought there
must be nutmegs and other spices among them, but he did not know them, and they were not ripe.
There is a river falling into the harbor, near the middle of the beach. The depth of this port
is surprising, for, until reaching the land, for a distance of ...[169-4] the lead did not
reach the bottom at 40 fathoms; and up to this length there are 15 fathoms with a very clean
bottom. Throughout the port there is a depth of 15 fathoms, with a clean bottom, at a short
distance from the shore; and all along the coast there are soundings with clean bottom, and
not a single sunken rock. Inside, at the length of a boat's oar from the land, there are 5
fathoms. Beyond the limit of the port to the S.S.E. a thousand carracks could beat up. One
branch of the port to the N.E. runs into the land for a long half league, and always the same
width, as if it had been measured with a cord. Being in this creek, which is 25 paces wide,
the principal entrance to the harbor is not in sight, so that it appears land-locked.[170-1]
The depth of this creek is 11 fathoms throughout, all with clean bottom; and close to the land,
where one might put the gangboards on the grass, there are eight fathoms.

The whole port is open to the air, and clear of trees. All the island appeared to be more rocky
than any that had been discovered. The trees are smaller, and many of them of the same kinds
as are found in Spain, such as the ilex, the arbutus and others, and it is the same with the
herbs. It is a very high country, all open and clear, with a very fine air, and no such cold
has been met with elsewhere, though it cannot be called cold except by comparison. Towards
the front of the haven there is a beautiful valley, watered by a river; and in that district
there must be many inhabitants, judging from the number of large canoes, like galleys, with
15 benches. All the natives fled as soon as they saw the ships. The Indians who were on board
had such a longing to return to their homes that the Admiral considered whether he should not
take them back when he should depart from here. They were already suspicious, because he did
not shape a course towards their country; whence he neither believed what they said, nor could
he understand them, nor they him, properly. The Indians on board had the greatest fear in the
world of the people of this island. In order to get speech of the people it would be necessary
to remain some days in harbor; but the Admiral did not do so, because he had to continue his
discoveries, and because he could not tell how long he might be detained. He trusted in our
Lord that the Indians he brought with him would understand the language of the people of this
island; and afterwards he would communicate with them, trusting that it might please God's
Majesty that he might find trade in gold before he returned.

Friday, 7th of December

At daybreak the Admiral got under way, made sail, and left the port of St. Nicholas. He went
on with the wind in the west for two leagues, until he reached the point which forms the Carenero,
when the angle in the coast bore S.E., and the Cabo de la Estrella was 24 miles to the S.W.
Thence he steered along the coast eastward to Cabo Cinquin about 48 miles, 20 of them being
on an E.N.E. coast. All the coast is very high, with a deep sea. Close in shore there are 20
to 30 fathoms, and at the distance of a lombard-shot there is no bottom; all which the Admiral
discovered that day, as he sailed along the coast with the wind S.W., much to his satisfaction.
The cape, which runs out in the port of St. Nicholas the length of a shot from a lombard, could
be made an island by cutting across it, while to sail round it is a circuit of 3 or 4 miles.
All that land is very high, not clothed with very high trees, but with ilex, arbutus, and others
proper to the land of Castile. Before reaching Cape Cinquin by two leagues, the Admiral discovered
a small roadstead[171-1] like an opening in the mountains, through which he could see a very
large valley, covered with crops like barley, and he therefore judged that it must sustain
a large population. Behind there was a high range of mountains. On reaching Cabo Cinquin, the
Cabo de la Tortuga bore N.E. 32 miles.[171-2] Off Cabo Cinquin, at the distance of a lombard-shot,
there is a high rock, which is a good landmark. The Admiral being there, he took the bearing
of Cabo del Elefante, which was E.S.E. about 70 miles,[171-3] the intervening land being very
high. At a distance of 6 leagues there was a conspicuous cape,[171-4] and he saw many large
valleys and plains, and high mountains inland, all reminding him of Spain. After 8 leagues
he came to a very deep but narrow river, though a carrack might easily enter it, and the mouth
without bar or rocks. After 16 miles there was a wide and deep harbor,[172-1] with on bottom
at the entrance, nor, at 3 paces from the shore, less than 15 fathoms; and it runs inland a
quarter of a league. It being yet very early, only one o'clock in the afternoon, and the wind
being aft and blowing fresh, yet, as the sky threatened much rain, and it was very thick, which
is dangerous even on a known coast, how much more in an unknown country, the Admiral resolved
to enter the port, which he called Puerto de la Concepcion. He landed near a small river at
the point of the haven, flowing from valleys and plains, the beauty of which was a marvel to
behold. He took fishing-nets with him; and, before he landed, a mullet, like those of Spain,
jumped into the boat, this being the first time they had seen fish resembling the fish of Castile.
The sailors caught and killed others and soles and other fish like those of Castile. Walking
a short distance inland, the Admiral found much land under cultivation, and heard the singing
of nightingales and other birds of Castile. Five men were seen, but they would not stop, running
away. The Admiral found myrtles and other trees and plants, like those of Castile, and so also
were the land and mountains.[172-2]

Saturday, 8th of December

In this port there was heavy rain, with a fresh breeze from the north. The harbor is protected
from all winds except the north; but even this can do no harm whatever, because there is a
great surf outside, which prevents such a sea within the river as would make a ship work on
her cables. After midnight the wind veered to N.E., and then to east, from which winds this
port is well sheltered by the island of Tortuga, distant 36 miles.[172-3]

Sunday, 9th of December

To-day it rained, and the weather was wintry, like October Castile. No habitations had been
seen except a very beautiful house in the Puerto de S. Nicolas, which was better built than
any that had been in other parts. "The island is very large" says the Admiral: "it would not
be much if it has a circumference of 200 leagues. All the parts he had seen were well cultivated.
He believed that the villages must be at a distance from the sea, whither they went when the
ships arrived; for they all took to flight, taking everything with them, and they made smoke-signals,
like a people at war."[TN-2] This port has a width of a thousand paces at its entrance, equal
to a quarter of a league. There is neither bank nor reef within, and there are scarcely soundings
close in shore. Its length, running inland, is 3000 paces, all clean, and with a sandy bottom;
so that any ship may anchor in it without fear, and enter it without precaution. At the upper
end there are the mouths of two rivers, with the most beautiful champaign country, almost like
the lands of Spain: these even have the advantage; for which reasons the Admiral gave the name
of the said island Isla Española.[173-1]

Monday, 10th of December

It blew hard from the N.E., which made them drag their anchors half a cable's length. This
surprised the Admiral, who had seen that the anchors had taken good hold of the ground. As
he saw that the wind was foul for the direction in which he wanted to steer, he sent six men
on shore, well armed to go two or three leagues inland, and endeavor to open communications
with the natives. They came and returned without having seen either people or houses. But they
found some hovels, wide roads, and some places where many fires had been made. They saw excellent
lands, and many mastic trees, some specimens of which they took; but this is not the time for
collecting it, as it does not coagulate.

Tuesday, 11th of December

The Admiral did not depart, because the wind was still east and S.E. In front of this port,
as has been said, is the island of La Tortuga. It appears to be a large island, with the coast
almost like that of Española, and the distance between them is about ten leagues.[174-1] It
is well to know that from the Cabo de Cinquin, opposite Tortuga, the coast trends to the south.
The Admiral had a great desire to see that channel between these two islands, and to examine
the island of Española, which is the most beautiful thing in the world. According to what the
Indians said who were on board, he would have to go to the island of Babeque. They declared
that it was very large, with great mountains, rivers, and valleys; and that the island of Bohio
was larger than Juana, which they call Cuba, and that it is not surrounded by water. They seem
to imply that there is mainland behind Española, and they call it Caritaba, and say it is of
vast extent. They have reason in saying that the inhabitants are a clever race, for all the
people of these islands are in great fear of those of Caniba. So the Admiral repeats, what
he has said before, that Caniba is nothing else but the Gran Can, who ought now to be very
near. He sends ships to capture the islanders; and as they do not return, their countrymen
believe that they have been eaten. Each day we understand better what the Indians say, and
they us, so that very often we are intelligible to each other. The Admiral sent people on shore,
who found a great deal of mastic, but did not gather it. He says that the rains make it, and
that in Chios they collect it in March. In these lands, being warmer, they might take it in
January. They caught many fish like those of Castile--dace, salmon, hake, dory, gilt heads,
mullets, corbinas, shrimps,[175-1] and they saw sardines. They found many aloes.[175-2]

Wednesday, 12th of December

The Admiral did not leave the port to-day, for the same reason: a contrary wind. He set up
a great cross on the west side of the entrance, on a very picturesque height, "in sign," he
says, "that your Highnesses hold this land for your own, but chiefly as a sign of our Lord
Jesus Christ." This being done, three sailors strolled into the woods to see the trees and
bushes. Suddenly they came upon a crowd of people, all naked like the rest. They called to
them, and went towards them, but they ran away. At last they caught a woman; for I had ordered
that some should be caught, that they might be treated well, and made to lose their fear. This
would be a useful event, for it could scarcely be otherwise, considering the beauty of the
country. So they took the woman, who was very young and beautiful, to the ship, where she talked
to the Indians on board; for they all speak the same language. The Admiral caused her to be
dressed, and gave her glass beads, hawks' bells, and brass ornaments; then he sent her back
to the shore very courteously, according to his custom. He sent three of the crew with her,
and three of the Indians he had on board, that they might open communications with her people.
The sailors in the boat, who took her on shore, told the Admiral that she did not want to leave
the ship, but would rather remain with the other women he had seized at the port of Mares,
in the island of Juana or Cuba. The Indians who went to put the woman on shore said that the
natives came in a canoe, which is their caravel, in which they navigate from one place to another;
but when they came to the entrance of the harbor, and saw the ships, they turned back, left
the canoe, and took the road to the village. The woman pointed out the position of the village.
She had a piece of gold in her nose, which showed that there was gold in that island.

Thursday, 13th of December

The three men who had been sent by the Admiral with the woman returned at 3 o'clock in the
morning, not having gone with her to the village, because the distance appeared to be long,
or because they were afraid. They said that next day many people would come to the ships, as
they would have been reassured by the news brought them by the woman. The Admiral, with the
desire of ascertaining whether there were any profitable commodities in that land, being so
beautiful and fertile, and of having some speech with the people, and being desirous of serving
the Sovereigns, determined to send again to the village, trusting in the news brought by the
woman that the Christians were good people. For this service he selected nine men well armed,
and suited for such an enterprise, with whom an Indian went from those who were on board. They
reached the village, which is 4-1/2 leagues to the S.E., and found that it was situated in
a very large and open valley. As soon as the inhabitants saw the Christians coming they all
fled inland, leaving all their goods behind them. The village consisted of a thousand houses,
with over three thousand inhabitants. The Indian whom the Christians had brought with them
ran after the fugitives, saying that they should have no fear, for the Christians did not come
from Cariba, but were from Heaven, and that they gave many beautiful things to all the people
they met. They were so impressed with what he said, that upwards of two thousand came close
up to the Christians, putting their hands on their heads, which was a sign of great reverence
and friendship; and they were all trembling until they were reassured. The Christians related
that, as soon as the natives had cast off their fear, they all went to the houses, and each
one brought what he had to eat, consisting of yams,[177-1] which are roots like large radishes,
which they sow and cultivate in all their lands, and is their staple food. They make bread
of it, and roast it. The yam has the smell of a chestnut, and anyone would think he was eating
chestnuts. They gave their guests bread and fish, and all they had. As the Indians who came
in the ship had understood that the Admiral wanted to have some parrots, one of those who accompanied
the Spaniards mentioned this, and the natives brought out parrots, and gave them as many as
they wanted, without asking anything for them. The natives asked the Spaniards not to go that
night, and that they would give them many other things that they had in the mountains. While
all these people were with the Spaniards, a great multitude was seen to come, with the husband
of the woman whom the Admiral had honored and sent away. They wore hair over their shoulders,
and came to give thanks to the Christians for the honor the Admiral had done them, and for
the gifts. The Christians reported to the Admiral that this was a handsomer and finer people
than any that had hitherto been met with. But the Admiral says that he does not see how they
can be a finer people than the others, giving to understand that all those he had found in
the other islands were very well conditioned. As regards beauty, the Christians said there
was no comparison, both men and women, and that their skins are whiter than the others. They
saw two girls whose skins were as white as any that could be seen in Spain. They also said,
with regard to the beauty of the country they saw, that the best land in Castile could not
be compared with it. The fish are like those of Spain. They saw much aloe and mastic, and cotton-fields.
Gold was not found, and it is not wonderful that it should not have been found in so short a time.

Here the Admiral calculated the number of hours in the day and night, and from sunrise to sunset.
He found that twenty half-hour glasses passed, though he says that here there may be a mistake,
either because they were not turned with equal quickness, or because some sand may not have
passed. He also observed with a quadrant, and found that he was 34 degrees from the equinoctial
line.[178-1]

Friday, 14th of December

The Admiral left the Puerto de la Concepcion with the land-breeze, but soon afterwards it fell
calm (and this is experienced every day by those who are on this coast). Later an east wind
sprang up, so he steered N.N.E., and arrived at the island of Tortuga. He sighted a point which
he named Punta Pierna, E.N.E. of the end of the island 12 miles; and from thence another point
was seen and named Punta Lanzada, in the same N.E. direction 16 miles. Thus from the end of
Tortuga to Punta Aguda the distance is 44 miles, which is 11 leagues E.N.E. Along this route
there are several long stretches of beach. The island of Tortuga is very high, but not mountainous,
and is very beautiful and populous, like Española, and the land is cultivated, so that it looked
like the plain of Cordova. Seeing that the wind was foul, and that he could not steer for the
island of Baneque,[179-1] he determined to return to the Puerto de la Concepcion whence he
had come; but he could not fetch a river which is two leagues to the east of that port.

Saturday, 15th of December

Once more the Admiral left the Puerto de la Concepcion, but, on leaving the port, he was again
met by a contrary east wind. He stood over to Tortuga, and then steered with the object of
exploring the river he had been unable to reach yesterday; nor was he able to fetch the river
this time, but he anchored half a league to leeward of it, where there was clean and good anchoring
ground. As soon as the vessels were secured, he went with the boats to the river, entering
an arm of the sea, which proved not to be the river. Returning, he found the mouth, there being
only one, and the current very strong. He went in with the boats to find the villagers that
had been seen the day before. He ordered a tow-rope to be got out and manned by the sailors,
who hauled the boats up for a distance of two lombard-shots. They could not get further owing
to the strength of the current. He saw some houses, and the large valley where the villages
were, and he said that a more beautiful valley he had never seen, this river flowing through
the centre of it. He also saw people at the entrance, but they all took to flight. He further
says that these people must be much hunted, for they live in such a state of fear. When the
ships arrived at any port, they presently made signals by fires on heights throughout the country;
and this is done more in this island of Española and in Tortuga, which is also a large island,
than in the others that were visited before. He called this valley Valle del Paraiso,[180-1]
and the river Guadalquivir; because he says that it is the size of the Guadalquivir at Cordova.
The banks consist of shingle, suitable for walking.[180-2]

Sunday, 16th of December

At midnight the Admiral made sail with the land-breeze to get clear of that gulf. Passing along
the coast of Española on a bowline, for the wind had veered to the east, he met a canoe in
the middle of the gulf, with a single Indian in it. The Admiral was surprised how he could
have kept afloat with such a gale blowing. Both the Indian and his canoe were taken on board,
and he was given glass beads, bells, and brass trinkets, and taken in the ship, until she was
off a village 17 miles from the former anchorage, where the Admiral came to again. The village
appeared to have been lately built, for all the houses were new. The Indian then went on shore
in his canoe, bringing the news that the Admiral and his companions were good people; although
the intelligence had already been conveyed to the village from the place where the natives
had their interview with the six Spaniards. Presently more than five hundred natives with their
king came to the shore opposite the ships, which were anchored very close to the land. Presently
one by one, then many by many, came to the ship without bringing anything with them, except
that some had a few grains of very fine gold in their ears and noses, which they readily gave
away. The Admiral ordered them all to be well treated; and he says: "for they are the best
people in the world, and the gentlest; and above all I entertain the hope in our Lord that
your Highnesses will make them all Christians, and that they will be all your subjects, for
as yours I hold them." He also saw that they all treated the king with respect, who was on
the sea-shore. The Admiral sent him a present, which he received in great state. He was a youth
of about 21 years of age, and he had with him an aged tutor, and other councillors who advised
and answered him, but he uttered very few words. One of the Indians who had come in the Admiral's
ship spoke to him, telling him how the Christians had come from Heaven, and how they came in
search of gold, and wished to find the island of Baneque. He said that it was well and that
there was much gold in the said island. He explained to the alguazil of the Admiral[181-1]
that the way they were going was the right way, and that in two days they would be there; adding,
that if they wanted anything from the shore he would give it them with great pleasure. This
king, and all the others, go naked as their mothers bore them, as do the women without any
covering, and these were the most beautiful men and women that had yet been met with. They
are fairly white, and if they were clothed and protected from the sun and air, they would be
almost as fair as people in Spain. This land is cool, and the best that words can describe.
It is very high, yet the top of the highest mountain could be ploughed with bullocks; and all
is diversified with plains and valleys. In all Castile there is no land that can be compared
with this for beauty and fertility. All this island, as well as the island of Tortuga, is cultivated
like the plain of Cordova. They raise on these lands crops of yams,[181-2] which are small
branches, at the foot of which grow roots like carrots, which serve as bread. They powder and
knead them, and make them into bread; then they plant the same branch in another part, which
again sends out four or five of the same roots, which are very nutritious, with the taste of
chestnuts. Here they have the largest the Admiral had seen in any part of the world, for he
says that they have the same plant in Guinea. At this place they were as thick as a man's leg.
All the people were stout and lusty, not thin, like the natives that had been seen before,
and of a very pleasant manner, without religious belief. The trees were so luxuriant that the
leaves left off being green, and were dark colored with verdure. It was a wonderful thing to
see those valleys, and rivers of sweet water, and the cultivated fields, and land fit for cattle,
though they have none, for orchards, and for anything in the world that a man could seek for.

In the afternoon the king came on board the ship, where the Admiral received him in due form,
and caused him to be told that the ships belonged to the Sovereigns of Castile, who were the
greatest princes in the world. But neither the Indians who were on board, who acted as interpreters,
nor the king, believed a word of it. They maintained that the Spaniards came from Heaven, and
that the Sovereigns of Castile must be in Heaven, and not in this world. They placed Spanish
food before the king to eat, and he ate a mouthful, and gave the rest to his councillors and
tutor, and to the rest who came with him.

"Your Highnesses may believe that these lands are so good and fertile, especially these of
the island of Española, that there is no one who would know how to describe them, and no one
who could believe if he had not seen them. And your Highnesses may believe that this island,
and all the others, are as much yours as Castile. Here there is only wanting a settlement and
the order to the people to do what is required. For I, with the force I have under me, which
is not large, could march over all these islands without opposition. I have seen only three
sailors land, without wishing to do harm, and a multitude of Indians fled before them. They
have no arms, and are without warlike instincts; they all go naked, and are so timid that a
thousand would not stand before three of our men. So that they are good to be ordered about,
to work and sow, and do all that may be necessary, and to build towns, and they should be taught
to go about clothed and to adopt our customs."

Monday, 17th of December

