273 Lady Arabella Stuard, by R. Cole. 274 The Name Martel, by W. Robson. 275

QUERIES:--
Query as to Junius, by J. Sudlow, Esq. 275
New Edition of Dr. Owen's Works. 276
Minor Queries:--MS. Book of Hours--Bess of Hardwick--Cæsar's
  Wife--Minar's Books of Antiquities--Proverb
  against Physicians--Compendyous Olde
  Treatyse--Topography of Foreign Printing Presses--Cromwell's
  Estates--Depinges. 276

REPLIES:--
Origin of Jew's-harp, by E.F. Rimbault, LL.D. 277
Ælfric's Colloquy, by S.W. Singer. 278
Reheting and Rehetours. 278
Arabic Numerals. 279
Fraternity of Christian Doctrine, Chaucer's Night
  Charm, by Rev. D. Rock. That it is genuine I
have no doubt. The handwriting is precisely similar to a note sent with
a copy of the Mysterious Mother to Mr. Parsons, in which Horace
Walpole writes, "he is unwilling to part with a copy without protesting
against his own want of judgment in selecting so disgusting a subject;
the absurdity of which he believes makes many faults of which he is
sensible in the execution overlooked." It is also guaranteed by its
date,--"Paris, July 28. 1771." By reference to his correspondence with
Sir H. Mann (vol. ii. p. 163.), we find a letter dated July 6, 1771, in
which he writes, "I am not gone; I do go to-morrow;" and in his General
Correspondence, vol. v. p. 303., writing to John Chute, his letter is
dated from Amiens, July 9. 1771, beginning, "I am got no farther yet;"
and he returned to Arlington Street, September 6. 1771, having arrived
at Paris on the 10th of July, and quitted it on the 2nd of September. I
notice the dates, as they indicate the rate of travelling in some degree
at that period. The Query is, to whom was it addressed? There is nothing
on the original to indicate the person. The letter is of no great
importance, except as it shows that Walpole, under certain conditions of
being, was more earnest and sincere than perhaps was in his nature, or
was generally his wont.

SPENCER HALL.

Athenæum, Feb. 25. 1850.

"Paris, July 28. 1771.

"Dear S'r.

"I have received no letter from my brother, and consequently have no answer to make to him.
I shall only say that after entering into a solemn engagement with me, that we should dispose
of the places alternately, I can scarce think him serious, when he tells you he has made an
entirely new arrangement for ALL the places, expects I shoud concur in it; and after that,
is so good as to promise he will dispose of no more without consulting me. If He is so absolutely
master of all, my concurrence is not necessary, and I will give none. If he chuses to dispose
of the places without me, That matter with others more important, must be regulated in another
manner,--and it is time they shoud, when no agreement is kept with me, and I find objections
made which, upon the fullest discussion and after allowance of the force of my arguments and
right, had been given up twenty years ago.

"With regard to your letter, S'r, some parts of it are, I protest, totally unintelligible to
me. Others, which I think I do understand, require a much fuller answer than I have time to
give now, as the post goes out to-morrow morning. That answer will contain matter not at all
fit for the Post, and which I am sure you woud not wish shoud be handled there; for which reason
I shall defer it, till I can give my answer at length into your own hands. It will, I believe,
surprize both you and my brother; and show how unkindly I have been {274} treated after doing
everything to accommodate both. As to the conditions which you say, S'r, you intend to exact
from my brother, you will undoubtedly state them to him himself; and cannot expect I should
meddle with them or be party to them. Neither you nor he can imagine that I am quite so tame
an idiot as to enter into bonds for persons of his recommendation. If the office is his, he
must be answerable for it, and for all the persons he employs in it. I protest against every
thing that is not my own act--a consequence he perhaps did not foresee, when he chose, contrary
to his agreement with me, to engross the whole disposition. I have always known clearly what
is my own right and on what founded; and have acted strictly according to my right, and am
ready to justify every step of my conduct. I have sufficiently shown my disposition to peace,
and appeal to you yourself, S'r, and to my brother, whether either can charge me with the least
encroachment beyond my right; and whether I have not acquiesced in every single step that either
has desired of me. Your letter, S'r, and that you quote of my brother, have shown how necessary
it is for me to take the measure I am determined to take. I would have done any thing to oblige
either you or my brother, but I am not to be threatened out of my right in any shape. I know
when it is proper to yield and when to take my stand. I refused to accept the place for my
own life when it was offered to me: when I declined that, it is not probable that I would hold
the place to the wrong of anybody else; it will and must be seen who claims any part or prerogatives
of the place unjustly; my honour demands to have this ascertained, and I will add, that when
I scorned a favour, I am not likely to be intimidated by a menace.

"I say all this coolly and deliberately, and my actions will be conformable. I do not forget
my obligations to you, dear S'r, or to your dead brother, whose memory will ever be most dear
to me. Unkind expressions shall not alter the affection I have for you and your family, nor
am I so unreasonable, so unjust, or so absurd as not to approve your doing every thing you
think right for your own interest and security and for those of your family. What I have to
say hereafter will prove that these not only are but ever have been my sentiments. I shall
then appeal to your own truth whether it is just in you to have used some expressions in your
letter, but as I mean to act with the utmost circumspection and without a grain of resentment
to anybody, I shall say no more till I have had full time to weigh every word I shall use,
and every step I mean to take. In the meantime I am,

"Dear S'r,

"Yr obliged humble serv't,

"HOR. WALPOLE.

"P.S. My refusal of the patent for my life has shown what value I set upon it; but I will have
justice, especially for my character, which no consideration upon earth shall prevent my seeking.
It must and shall be known whether I enjoy the place to the wrong of any man living. You have
my free consent, S'r, to show this letter to whom you please; I have nothing to conceal, and
am ready to submit my conduct to the whole world."

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY ARABELLA STUART.

As a pendant to Mr. P. Cunningham's "New Facts about Lady Arabella Stuart" (No. 1. p. 10.).
I send you a copy of Bishop James' Account and Quietus in respect of 300l., placed in his hands
"for the expences of dyett and other chardges of the Ladye Arabella Seymour comytted to his
safe kepinge." The original document is in my possession.

ROBT. COLE. Feb. 11, 1850.

    "The Accompte of the Lorde Byshopp of Durham for cccli,
    receaved for the chardge of the Ladye Arbella Seymour.

    "The Declaration of the Accompte of the Reverende Father in God
    Will'm James Lorde Bysshoppe of Duresme for the some of Three
    hundreth poundes imprested to him out of the Receipte of the
    Kinges ma^ts Exchequer at Westmynster for the expences of dyett
    and other chardges of the Ladye Arbella Seymour comytted to his
    safe kepinge w^th an inteneon to have caryed into the
    Bysshoprycke of Duresme there to have remayned under his chardge
    duringe the Kynges ma^ts pleasure, viz^t betweene the xiiij^th
    of Marche 1610 in the viij^th year of his highnes raigne and the
    last daye of the same moneth as followeth.

    "Readye money receaved, viz. of

    "The Threasorer and vnder threr. of Th'exchequer in Mychas terme
    in the viijth yeare of the Kinges ma'ts raigne by t'handes of
    Thomas Wattson Esquire one of the Tell'rs for the chardges of
    himselfe and his servaunts in his yorney w'th the saide Ladye
    Arbella Seymour by pvie Seale dated the xiij of March 1610 and
    Lves of the Lordes of the Councell ...cccli. whereof

    "Expences of dyett and other chardges of the Ladye Arabella
    Seymour & others attendinge upon her, viz.

    "Expences of dyett

    "At Highgate for sixe dayes begonne the xvth daye of Marche 1610
    and ended the xxjst of the same moneth on w'ch daye her
    Ladyshippe remoued to Barnett. xviijli. vs. lijd.

    "At Barnett for xj^en dayes begonne the xxjst of Marche 1610 at
    Supper and ended the firste of Aprill 1611 at breakefaste beinge
    that daye remoued to Eastbarnett. lxxjli. vs. viijd.

    "Chardges of y^e Stable, viz.

    "Chardges of the Stable for the xvij dayes aboue-menconed, viz.
    at Highgate for vj dayes ixli. xvijs. xd. and at Barnett for
    xj dayes with vs. for dressinge one of the lytter horses
    xxviijli. xijs. xjd., in all the some of xxxviijli. xs. ixd.
    {275}

    "Lodginge and other necessaries, viz.

    "Lodginge of some of the retinewe of the Lady Arbella and the
    sayde Lorde Bysshoppe, viz. Highgate xxs. and at Barnett viijs.,
    in all xxviijs.

    "Fyer lightes and other nessces with the lodginge of the saide
    Lorde Bysshoppe and some of his servauntes at Highgate and
    Barnett during the xvij dayes aforesaide. xjli. xjs.

    "Rydinge and postinge chardges, viz. for posthorses from Lambeth
    to Highgate xxxiiijs. iiijd. and from thence to Barnett
    xxxiiijs. ixd. Mr. Beeston and others for there chardges three
    several tymes to Barnett from London and from Highgate xljs.
    iiijd. the servauntes of the Lorde Bysshoppe of Durham sent at
    several tymes in the Lordes of the Councell and for other
    busynesses concerning this servyce xlvs. vjd. and to Sr. James
    Crofes Knight for the chardges of himselfe his men and horses
    from Monday to Wednesday night attendinge at London for this
    service xlijs. vijd., in all ixli. xviijs. vjd.

    "Rewardes to sondrye psons, viz. to messengers sent from the
    Courte duringe the stay of the Lorde Bysshoppe at Highgate and
    Barnett xxxixs. vjd. Dyverse psons whoe tooke paynes at those
    twoe places vijli. xijs., vjd., given in the Yune for glasses
    broken and in rewardes to the meaner servauntes at Barnett
    xxxs., given to such an attended about the posthorses vijs. vjd.
    and in rewarde to one of the Tellors Clerkes whoe told and
    delivered the cccli. and came to Durham House for the
    acquittance xxs., in all xijli., ixs. vjd.

    "Money payde by the saide Lorde Bysshoppe pte of the cccli. by
    him receaved to Nicholas Paye gen. whoe hath for the same yelded
    his accompte to the Kinges ma'tie. cli..--cclxiijli. viijs.
    viijd.

    "Aud soe remayneth the some of xxxvjli. xjs. iiijd.

    "Whiche some the saide Lorde Bysshoppe of Durham hath payde into
    the Kinges m'ts receipte of Th'excheq'r the vij'th daye of
    Februarie in the nynth yere of his highnes raigne as by the
    tallie thereof remayninge may appeare. And soe here Quyte.

    "EX p FRA GOFTON

    "Auditorem."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NAME MARTEL.

I must confess that the article in No. 6. p. 86., which deprived Charles Martel of his long-possessed
distinction of "the hammerer" gave me but little satisfaction. It was one of those old associations
that one does not like to have destroyed. I could not, however, contradict your correspondents;
and remained that very uncomfortable person, "a man convinced against his will." On turning
over my Ménagiana, yesterday, I stumbled upon the name "Martel," and, as the passage combines
both your elements (being a good note, and producing a query) I beg leave to offer it to you.

    "Dans le ll'me siècle les procès se faisaìent aux vassaux par
    leurs Pairs, c'est-à-dire, par leurs convassaux, et toute sorte
    de procès se font encore présentement en Angleterre à toutes
    sortes d'accusés par leurs Pairs, c'est-à-dire, par des
    personnes de leur même état et de leur même condition, à la
    réserve des Bourreaux et des Bouchers, qui, à cause de leur
    cruauté ne sont point juges. Géoffroi Martel, Comte d'Anjou,
    fit faire ainsi le procès à Guérin de Craon, qu'il avait fait
    foi et hommage de la Baronnie de Craon à Conan, duc de Bretange.
    Géoffroi fit assembler ses Barons, qui, selon l'ancienne forme
    observée en matière féodale, firent le procès à Guérin, son
    vassal, et le condamnèrent, quoiqu'il fùt absent.--Et il est à
    remarquer à ce propos, que le Pape Innocent III., qui
    favourisait Jean sans-Terre, parcequ'en 1213 il avait soûmis
    son royaume d'Angleterre au Saint Siége au devoir de mille marcs
    d'argent par an, ayant allegué aus Ambassadeurs de Philippe
    Auguste que Jean sans-Terre avait été condammé absent, et que
    les loix défendent de condamner les accusés sans les ouïr; ils
    lui réspondirent que l'usage du Royaume de France était de
    condamner les absents, aussi bien que les présents, lorqu'ils
    avaient été deuëment cités en jugement. Chez les Romains il
    n'était par permis de condamner les absents: Non licet civem
    inauditum damnare."

Now, Sir, this passage shows "Martel," as a name, like that of "sans-Terre," bestowed for some
quality or circumstances attached to the bearer;--and I should like to ask your correspondents
if they know how this Comte d'Anjou, became entitled to it? He appears, from the date, to be
the same Geoffrey who is the ancestor of our Plantagenets, as the Comte d'Anjou, contemporary
with William the Conqueror, was named Fulk. If it can be proved that this Count received this
addition from his martial prowess, I shall be strongly tempted to return to my creed regarding
Charles Martel.

W. ROBSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES AS TO JUNIUS. It is as follows:--

    "The greatest part of my property having been invested in the
    funds, I could not help paying some attention to rumours or
    events by which my fortune might be affected: yet I never lay in
    wait to take advantage of a sudden fluctuation, much less would
    I make myself a bubble to bulls and bears, or a dupe to the
    pernicious arts practised in the Alley. I thought a prudent man,
    who had any thing to lose, and really meant to do the best for
    himself and his family, ought to consider the state of things at
    large, of the prospect before him, and the probability of public
    events. A letter which appeared some days ago in the Public
    Advertizer revived many serious reflections of this sort in my
    mind, because it seemed to be written with candour and judgment.
    The effect of those reflections was, that I did not hesitate to
    alter the situation of my property.

    "I owe my thanks to that writer that I am safely {276} landed
    from a troubled ocean of fear and anxiety on which I think I
    will venture my fortune and my happiness again," &c. &c.

There is no reason to question the truth of these sentiments. The letter is believed to be
the first which appeared signed "ATTICUS," and was written many months before the author became
known as Junius, and before any necessity had arisen for the exercise of that habitual caution
which he afterwards evinced in the mention of any circumstance at all likely to lead to his
detection. Would it not, therefore, be worth while to ascertain the date of the letter in the
Public Advertizer which influenced him, and then to search the names of the transferrors of
stock between that time and the 19th August? Many of the contributors to the "Notes and Queries"
have influence sufficient to obtain permission from the proper authority for such a search.
It is observable, that as the amount transferred formed the greatest part of his property,
it would be somewhat considerable, and might not be sold in the aggregate, but pass in various
sums to several purchasers.

JNO. SUDLOW. Manchester.

Junius and Sir G. Jackson.--I find no one has answered my question about Sir George Jackson
(No. 11. p. 172.). I will therefore put another.

P.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW EDITION OF REV. DR. OWEN'S WORKS.

I gladly avail myself of the hint thrown out by "R.R." (in No. 17.) to state that as I am engaged
in editing a reprint of the works of the Rev. Dr. Owen, and as I am exceedingly anxious to
ensure accuracy in the quotations from and references to the Fathers, any suggestions which
may be furnished by those of your learned correspondents who may be conversant with the works
in question, will be very acceptable. I should wish much to obtain original editions of the
leading works, such as that On the Person of Christ; On the Work of the Spirit; On the Death
of Death, in the Death of Christ. Have any of your correspondents ever taken the trouble of
collating the Greek and Latin quotations with the authors quoted from, and examined the references
made to the Fathers and other ancient writers? Any communication addressed to the editor of
the works of Owen at Messrs. Johnstone and Hunter, Publishers, Edinburgh, will be promptly
forwarded to me.

J.G. Dunnichen, Forfarshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

MS. Book of Hours.--In the sale catalogue of the library of John Bridges, of Lincoln's Inn,
February, 1725, is entered Lot 4311:--

    "Missale quondam Henrici VII., regis Angliæ, ut ex ipsius
    autographo in codicis initio patet, pulcherrime illuminatum, et
    inconibus fere 80 exornatum. In pergameno, et ornatissime
    compact."

It appears, from Wanley's Diary (MS. Lansd. 772.), that this volume, which he calls a Primer,
was purchased for the Earl of Oxford (for 31l. 10s., as I learn from a priced copy of the catalogue),
and was highly valued. To judge from the above description, it must have been a very beautiful
book; and as it does not seem to be at present among the Harleian collection of MSS. in the
British Museum, I should be glad to learn into whose hands it has fallen. It is not the celebrated
volume of Hours known under the name of the Bedford Missal, since that was purchased by Lord
Harley of Lady Worseley, and is now in the possession of the Rev. Mr. Tobin;--nor is it the
book of Hours in the library of the Duke of Devonshire (described by Dr. Dibbin in the Bibl.
Decameron, vol. i. p. 155.), which contains the autograph notes of Henry VII.;--nor is it the
similar volume formerly in the libraries of George Wilkinson, of Tottenham Green (sold in 1836),
and the Rev. Will. Maskell, and now MS. Add. 17,012. in the British Museum, in which are seen
the autographs of Henry VII. and his Queen, Henry VIII., Catherine of Aragon, and others;--nor
is it the beautiful volume of Hours executed for René d'Anjou, and subsequently presented to
Henry VII. by his chaplain George Strangeways, Archdeacon of Coventry (now in the British Museum,
MS. Eg. 1070.);--nor, lastly, is it the book of Hours in the collection of George III. (No.
9.), which contains the autograph writing of Henry VIII.

F.M. B.M., Feb. 19. 1850.

Bess of Hardwick.--Elizabeth, or Bess of Hardwick, celebrated for her distaste for celibacy,
makes a considerable figure in the histories of the Cavendish family, who in some degree owed
their greatness to her judicious purchases and careful management of their Derbyshire estates.

It appears, from the Derbyshire Visitations, that she was one of the daughters of John Hardwick,
of Hardwick co. Derby, by his wife Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas Leake, of Hasland co. Derby,
and that John Hardwick died 19 Hen. VIII.

Can any of your readers inform me of the pedigree of this John Hardwick?--what arms, crest,
motto and quarterings he made use of?--what persons now living are descended from him?--and
what became of his estates?

I presume that your typographical arrangements {277} do not admit of the insertion of a regular
pedigree; but the descents may be stated as in Burke and similar Books.

GULES

Cæsar's Wife..--"NASO" wishes to know where the proverbial saying, "Cæsar's wife must not even
be suspected," first occurs.

Minar's Books of Antiquities.--Can any one conversant with the works of Cardinal Nicolas de
Cusa inform me what author he quotes as "Minar in his Books of Antiquities," in what language,
and where existing? De Doctâ Ignorantiâ, I. i. cap. 7.

A.N.

Proverb against Physicians.--"M.D." wishes to be informed of the earliest writer who mentions
the proverb "Ubi tres Medici, duo Athei."

Compendyous Olde Treatyse.--In Ames's Typographical Antiquities, vol. i. p. 405. (ed. Herbert),
is described a work, printed by Rycharde Banckes, some time between 1525 and 1545, entitled,
"A compendyous olde treatyse shewynge howe that we ought to have the Scripture in Englyshe,
with the Auctours." 12mo. 18 leaves. This copy belonged to Herbert himself, and was probably
obtained at the sale of Thomas Granger, in 1732. Any information as to its wherabout at present,
or the existence of any other copy of the above tract, would confer a fabour on the inquirer.

F.M.

The Topography of Foreign Printing Presses.--I have often been at a loss to discover the locality
of names which designate the places where books have been printed at Foreign presses; and "when
found" to "make a note of it." I was therefore pleased to find in No. 16. p. 251., by the reply
of "R.G." to Mr. Jebb, that "Cosmopolis was certainly Amsterdam," and that "Coloniæ" signifies
"Amstelædami." And I will take the liberty of suggesting that it would be an acceptable service
rendered to young students, if your learned correspondents would occasionally communicate in
the pages of your work, the modern names, &c. of such places as are not easily gathered from
the books themselves.

P.H.F.

Cromwell's Estates.--In Carlyle's edition of Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, there is a note
(p. 75. vol. iv. of the 3rd ed. 1850) containing a list of the estates which the Protector
owned at the time of his death, as follows; there being, besides Newhall, specified as "in
Essex," five, viz.--

"Dalby, Broughton, Burleigh, Oakham, and Egleton."

of which the editor has ascertained the localities; and six, viz.--

                     £    s.  d
"Gower, valued at   479   0   0 per an.
Chepstall valued at 549   7   3
Magore valued at    448   0   0
Sydenham valued at 3121   9   6
Woolaston valued at 664  16   6
Chaulton valued at  500   0   0,"

of which, he say, "he knows nothing."

It would surely be a proper, and, one might hope, an attainable object of inquiry, to search
out these unplaced estates of the great Protector, and give them a local habitation in modern
knowledge. This is precisely one of the kind of queries which your publication seems best fitted
to aid; and I therefore submit it, in the hope of some discoveries, to your correspondents.

V. Belgravia, Feb. 18, 1850.

What are Depinges?--In the orders made in 1574 for regulating the fishery at Yarmouth, the
Dutch settlers there are "To provide themselves with twine and depinges in foreign places."
What are Depinges?

J.S.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES

ORIGIN OF THE JEWS-HARP.

The "Jews-harp," or "Jews-trump," is said by several authors to derive
its name from the nation of the Jews, and is vulgarly believed to be one
of their instruments of music. Dr. Littleton renders Jews-trump by
Sistrum Judaicum. But no such musical intrument is spoken of by any of
the old authors that treat of the Jewish music. In fact, the Jews-harp
is a mere boy's plaything, and incapable of in itself of being joined
either with a voice or any other instrument; and its present orthography
is nothing more than a corruption of the French Jeu-trompe, literally,
a toy trumpet. It is called jeu-trompe by Bacon, Jew-trump by
Beaumont and Fletcher, and Jews-harp by Hackluyt. These confessions made the King
    in a wonderfull admiration, and sent for the said Geilles
    Duncan, who upon the like trumpe did play the saide daunce
    before the Kinge's Majestie; who in respect of the strangenes of
    these matters tooke great delight to be present at their
    examinations."

It may be as well to mention that in the Belgic or Low Dutch, from whence come many of our
toys, a tromp is a rattle for children. Another etymon for Jews-harp is Jaws-harp, because
the place where it is played upon is between the jaws. To those who wish to learn more upon
the subject, I beg to refer them to Pegge's Anonymiana; Dauncy's Ancient Scottish Melodies;
and to my edition of Chettle's Kind-Harts Dream printed by the Percy Society.

Edward F. Rimbault.

    [We are indebted also to Trebor, E.W.D., J.F.M., and F.P. for
    replies to this Query. They will perceive that Dr. Rimbault had
    anticipated the substance of their several communications.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ÆLFRIC'S COLLOQUY.

I must trouble you and some of your readers with a few words, in reply to the doubt of "C.W.G."
(No. 16. p. 248.) respecting the word sprote. I do not think the point, and the Capital letter
to saliu in the Latin text, conclusive, as nothing of the kind occurs in the A.-S. version,
where the reading is clearly, "swa hwylce swa, on watere swymmath sprote." I have seen the
Cottonian MS., which, as Mr. Hampson observes, is very distinctly written, both in the Saxon
and Latin portions; so much so in the latter, as to make it a matter of surprise that the doubtful
word saliu should ever have been taken for salu, or casidilia for calidilia. The omission of
the words sprote and saliu, in the St. John's MS., would only be evidence of a more cautious
scribe, who would not copy what he did not understand. For, be it recollected, that throughout
the answers of the Fiscere, the fish are always named in the plural; and it is not to be supposed
that there would be an exception in favour of sprote, whether intended for sprat or salmon.
Indeed, had the former been a river fish, Hulvet and Palsgrave would have countenanced the
supposition; but then we must have had it in the plural form, sprottas. As for the suggestion
of sprod and salar, I cannot think it a happy one; salmon (leaxus) had been already mentioned;
and sprods will be found to be a very confined local name for what, in other places, are called
scurfes or scurves, and which we, in our ignorance, designate as salmon trout. In the very
scanty A.-S. ichthyologic nomenclature we possess, there is nothing to lead us to imagine that
our Anglo-Saxon ancestors had any corresponding word for a salmon trout. I must be excused,
therefore, for still clinging to my own explanation of sprote, until something more specious
and ingenious shall be advanced, but in full confidence, at the same time, that some future
discovery will elucidate its truth.

S.W. Singer.

Feb. 19. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

REHETING AND REHETOURS.

