THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, NO. 286.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

To expatiate on the advantages of printing, at this time of day, would be "wasteful and ridiculous
excess." We content ourselves with the comparison of Dryden's

  "Long trails of light descending down."

In a retrospective glance at our previous volumes (for can the phrenologists tell us of a head
capacious enough to contain their exhaustless variety?) our readers will perceive that, from
time to time, sundry "accounts" of the origin and progress of printing have been inserted in
the MIRROR;[1] and though we are not vain enough to consider our sheet as the "refined gold,
the lily, the violet, the ice, or the rainbow," of the poet's perfection, yet in specimens
of the general economy of the art, the long-extended patronage of the public gives us an early
place.

With an outline of the life of CAXTON our readers must be already familiar; but we wish them
to consider the above accurate representation of the FIRST ENGLISH PRINTER'S RESIDENCE as antecedent
to a Memoir of Caxton, in which it will be our aim to concentrate, in addition to biographical
details, many important facts from the testimony of antiquarians; for scarcely a volume of
the Archaeologia has appeared without some valuable communication on Caxton and his times.

In the meantime we proceed with the locale of Caxton's house, situate on the south-west of
Westminster Abbey, where was formerly the eleemosynary, or almonry, where the alms of the abbots
were distributed. Howell in his Londinopolis, describes this as "the spot where the abbot of
Westminster permitted Caxton to set up his press in the Almonry, or Ambry," the former of which
names is still retained. Here he printed The Game and Play of the Chesse, said to be the first
book that issued from the press in this country.

Hence, according to Mr. M'Creery, the intelligent author of "The Press," a poem, "the title
of chapel to the internal regulations of a printing-office originated in Caxton's exercising
the profession in one of the chapels in Westminster Abbey, and may be considered as an additional
proof, from the antiquity of the custom, of his being the first English printer."[2]

Every lover of science, on approaching this spot, will feel himself on holy ground, however
the idle and incurious of our metropolis may neglect the scite, or be ignorant of its identity.
We are there led into an eternity of reflection and association of ideas; but lest human pride
should be too fondly feasted in the retrospect, the hallowed towers of the abbey, seen in the
distance, serve to remind us of the imperial maxim, that "art is long, and life but short."

[Footnote 1: See MIRROR, vol 3, p 194--vol 5. p 311.]

[Footnote 2: We requote this passage from Mr. M'Creery, as it has already appeared in vol.
5; and in vol. 3, a correspondent denies that the first English book was printed at Westminster;
but we are disposed to think that an impartial examination of the testimonies on each side
of the controversy will decide in favour of Caxton.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TEA.--ITS INTRODUCTION INTO ENGLAND.

(A correspondent, who signs M.M.M. informs us that the article sent to us by P.T.W. and inserted
in No. 280 of the MIRROR, was copied verbatim from the Imperial Magazine, a work which we seldom
see, and consequently we had no opportunity of ascertaining the origin of our correspondent's
paper. It seemed to us a good cyclopaedian article on the subject, and we accordingly admitted
it. We now subjoin M.M.M.'s communication.)

In addition to what has been said in the article upon tea, (by P.T.W.) allow me to remark (and
which I do not recollect ever to have seen noticed in any work upon the subject) that the seed
is contained in two vessels, the outer one varying in shape, triangular, long, and round, according
to the number which it contains of what may be termed inner vessels. The outer vessel of a
triangular shape, measures, from the base to the apex about three quarters of an inch, and
is of a dark brown colour, approaching to black, and thick, strong, and rough in texture; within
this is another vessel, containing the kernel; this inner vessel is of a light brown colour,
thin, and brittle, in shape, seldom perfectly round, but mostly flat on one side: there are
three of them in a triangular seed vessel, two in a long one, and one in that which is round.
The kernel is of a brown colour, and in taste very bitter. In no other species of teas than
Bohea, is the large kind of seed found, which is probably owing to that species being gathered
last or in autumn. There is a small seed found mixed with the Congou kind of teas, about the
size of a pea, which is in every respect similar to the large, except in size. This seed was
evidently not permitted to ripen, but the calyx of the flower connected with the peduncle is
quite perfect. The Twankey species are of the same appearance, all of which I have had ample
opportunity of inspecting.

As an appendage to this note, we are induced to quote the following pleasant page from Time's
Telescope for 1828; and we take this opportunity of reminding our readers that our customary
Supplementary sheet, containing the spirit of this and other popular Annual Works will be published
with our next Number.

From a single sheet found in Sir Hans Sloane's library, in the British Museum, and printed
by Mr. Ellis in his Original Letters, Second Series, it appears that tea was known in England
in the year 1657, though not then in general use.

Secretary Pepys, in his Diary, vol. i. p. 76, without saying where he had his drink, makes
the following entry:--"Sept. 25th, 1660. I did send for a cup of tea (a China drink) of which
I never had drunk before, and went away."

In a letter from Mr. Henry Savill to his uncle, Secretary Coventry, dated from Paris, Aug.
12, 1678, and printed by Mr. Ellis, the writer, after acknowledging the hospitalities of his
uncle's house, quaintly observes, "These, I hope, are the charms that have prevailed with me
to remember (that is to trouble) you oftener than I am apt to do other of my friends, whose
buttery-hatch is not so open, and who call for TEA instead of pipes and bottles after dinner;
a base unworthy Indian practice, and which I must ever admire your most Christian family for
not admitting. The truth is, all nations have grown so wicked as to have some of these filthy
customs." In 1678, the year in which the above letter is dated, the East India Company began
the importation of tea as a branch of trade; the quantity received at that time amounting to
4,713 lbs. The importation gradually enlarged, and the government, in consequence, augmented
the duties upon tea. By the year 1700, the importation of tea had arrived at the quantity of
20,000 lbs. In 1721, it exceeded a million of pounds. In 1816, it had arrived at 86,234,380
lbs. Something more than thirty millions of pounds is probably the present average of importation:
some allowance must be made for tea damaged and spoiled upon the passage.--See more on this
subject, well worthy of perusal, in Mr. Ellis's Letters, Second Series, vol. iv. pp. 57, et seq.

       *       *       *       *       *

DANGER.

FROM L'ADONE OF MARINO.

(For the Mirror.)

  Like some lone Pilgrim in the dusky night,
    Seeking, through unknown paths, his doubtful way,
  While thick nocturnal vapours veil his sight
    From yawning chasms, that 'neath his footsteps lay;
  Sudden before him gleams the forked light!
    Dispels the gloom, yet fills him with dismay.
  His trembling steps he then retraces back,
    And seeks again the well-known beaten track.

E.S.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

CATS.

(For the Mirror.)

The first couple of these animals which were carried to Cuyaba sold for a pound of gold. There
was a plague of rats in the settlement, and they were purchased as a speculation, which proved
an excellent one. Their first kittens produced thirty oilavas each; the new generation were
worth twenty; and the price gradually fell as the inhabitants were stocked with these beautiful
and useful creatures. Montengro presented to the elder Almagro the first cat which was brought
to South America, and was rewarded for it with six hundred pesos.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEATH OF KING JOHN.

Extracted from an old black-letter volume, entitled "The Abridgment of the Acts and Monuments
of Martyrs, from the earliest period of Christian suffering to the time of Queen Elizabeth,
our gracious lady, now reigning," printed in her reign.

(For the Mirror.)

In the yeere 1216, king John was poisoned, as most writers testify, at Swinsted Abbey, by a
monk of that abbey, of the order of Cistersians, or S. Bernard's brethren, called Simon of
Swinsted. The monk did first consult with his abbot, shewing him what he minded to do, alleging
for himself the prophecy of Caiphas, 11th of John, saying, it is better that one man die, than
the whole people perish. I am well content, saith he, to lose my life, and so become a martyr,
that I may utterly destroy this tyrant. With that the abbot did weep for gladness, and much
commended his fervent zeal. The monk then being absolved of his abbot for doing this fact,
went secretly into the garden, on the back side, and finding there a most venomous toad, did
so prick him and press him with his penknife, that hee made him vomite all the poison that
was within him; this done, he conveyed it into a cup of wine, and with a flattering and smiling
countenance he sayeth to the king, "If it shall please your princely majesty, here is such
a cup of wine as you never drank better in your lifetime. I trust this wassall shall make all
England glad," and with that he drank a great draught thereof, and the king pledged him; the
monk then went out of the house to the back, and then died, his bowels gushing out of his belly,
and had continually from henceforth three monks to sing mass for him, confirmed by their general
charter. The king, within a short space after, feeling great grief in his body, asked for Simon,
the monk; answer was made he was dead. "Then God have mercy on me," said the king; so went
he to Newark-upon-Trent, and there died, and was buried in the cathedral church at Worster,
in 1216, the 19th day of October, after having been much fered with the clergy 18 years, 6
months, and a day.

MALVINA.

       *       *       *       *       *

LILLIARD EDGE.

(For the Mirror.)

Near the border between the parishes of Maxton and Ancrum is a bridge, called Lilliard Edge,
formerly Anerum moor, where a battle was fought between the Scots and English soon after the
death of king James V., who died in the year 1542. When the Earl of Arran was regent of Scotland,
Sir Ralph Rivers and Sir Bryan Laiton came to Jedburgh with an army of 5,000 English to seize
Merse and Teviotdale in the name of Henry VIII., then king of England, who died not long after,
in the year 1547. The regent and the Earl of Angus came with a small body of men to oppose
them. The Earl of Angus was greatly exasperated against the English, because some time before
they had defaced the tombs of his ancestors at Melrose, and had done much hurt to the abbey
there. The regent and the Earl of Angus, without waiting the arrival of a greater force, which
was expected, met the English at Lilliard Edge, where the Scots obtained a great victory, considering
the inequality of their number. A young woman of the name of Lilliard fought along with the
Scots with great courage; she fell in the battle, and a tombstone was erected upon her grave
on the field where it was fought. Some remains of this tombstone are still to be seen.

T.S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND BOOKWORMS.

(For the Mirror.)

Books were anciently made of plates of copper and lead, the bark of trees, bricks, Stones,
and wood. Porphyry mentions some pillars, preserved in Crete, on which the ceremonies observed
by the Corybantes in their sacrifices were recorded. The leaves of the palm-tree were used,
and the finest and thinnest part of the bark of such trees as the lime, the ash, the maple,
and the elm; from hence comes the word liber, which signifies the inner bark of the trees;
and as these barks are rolled up, in order to be removed with greater ease, these rolls were
called volumen, a volume, a name afterwards given to the like rolls of paper or parchment.
By degrees wax, then leather, were introduced, especially the skins of goats and sheep, of
which at length parchment was prepared; also linen, then silk, horn, and lastly paper. The
rolls or volumes of the ancients were composed of several sheets, fastened to each other, rolled
upon a stick, and were sometimes fifty feet in length, and about a yard and a half wide. At
first the letters were only divided into lines, then into separate words, which, by degrees,
were noted with accents, and distributed by points, and stops into periods, paragraphs, chapters,
and other divisions. In some countries, as among the orientals, the lines began from the right,
and ran to the left; in others, as in northern and western nations, from the left to the right;
others, as the Grecians, followed both directions alternately, going in the one and returning
in the other.

In the Chinese books, the lines run from top to bottom. Again, the page in some is entire and
uniform; in others, divided into columns; in others, distinguished into text and notes, either
marginal or at the bottom; usually it is furnished with signatures and catch-words, also with
a register to discover whether the book be complete. The Mahometans place the name of God at
the beginning of all their books. The word book is derived from the Saxon boc, which comes
from the northern buech, of buechans, a beech, or service-tree, on the bark of which our ancestors
used to write. A very large estate was given for one on Cosmography by king Alfred. About the
year 1400, they were sold from 10l. to 30l. a piece. The first printed one was the Vulgate
edition of the Bible, 1462; the second was Cicero de Officiis, 1466. Leo I. ordered 200,000
to be burnt at Constantinople. In the suppressed monasteries of France, in 1790, there were
found 4,104,412 volumes; nearly one-half were on theology. The end of the book, now denoted
by finis, was anciently marked with a <, called coronis, and the whole frequently washed with
an oil drawn from cedar, or citron chips strewed between the leaves, to preserve it from rotting.

Thus far books; now for the bookworms. Anthony Magliabecchi, the notorious bookworm, was born
at Florence in 1633; his passion for reading induced him to employ every moment of his time
in improving his mind. By means of an astonishing memory and incessant application, he became
more conversant with literary history than any man of his time, and was appointed librarian
to the grand duke of Tuscany. He has been called a living library. He was a man of a most forbidding
and savage aspect, and exceedingly negligent of his person. He refused to be waited upon, and
rarely took off his clothes to go to bed. His dinner was commonly three hard eggs, with a draught
of water. He had a small window in his door, through which he could see all those who approached
him; and if he did not wish for their company, he would not admit them. He spent some hours
in each day at the palace library; but is said never in his life to have gone farther from
Florence than to Pratz, whither he once accompanied Cardinal Norris to see a manuscript. He
died at the age of 81, in the year 1714. In the present age we have bookworms, who wander from
one bookstall to another, and there devour their daily store of knowledge. Others will linger
at the tempting window filled with the "twopenny," and read all the open pages; then pass on
to another of the same description, and thus enjoy literature by the way of Cheapside.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

MIDNIGHT--A TOUCH AT THE EPIC.

(For the Mirror.)

  "The iron tongue of midnight hath toll'd twelve."
SHAKSPEARE.

  Amid the pauses of the midnight storm,
  When all without is cold, within all warm!
  Amid the pauses of the midnight blast,
  When ev'ry bolt and ev'ry sleeper's fast!
  In that dire hour, when graves give up their dead,
  And men for once agree in their pursuit--a bed!
  When heroes, statesmen, senators, and kings,
  Lords, and et ceteras of meaner things,
  Forget the road to fortune--or to jail,
  And Morpheus all their equal guardian hail!
  When each forgets each 'vantage or mishap.
  And all are equal in one common nap!
  At that dread hour...
            Caetera desiderantur.

Carshalton W. P----n.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON OATHS.

(For the Mirror.)

Since lately we have had a great deal of prevarication in our courts of justice about receiving
the oaths of deists, &c., I have thought it meet to furnish the MIRROR with an account of the
first usage of the words, "So help me God." The word oath is a corruption of the Saxon eoth.
An oath is called corporal, because the person making an affidavit lays his hand upon a part
of the scriptures.

At the conclusion of the oath the above words are used, which may perhaps have originated in
the very ancient manner of trial by battle in this country, when the appellee, laying his right
hand on the book, takes the appellant by the right hand with his left, and maketh oath as follows:--"Hear
this, thou who callest thyself John by the name of baptism, whom I hold by thy hand, that falsely
upon me thou hast lied; and for this thou liest, that I who call myself Thomas by the name
of baptism, did not feloniously murder thy father, W. by name, so help me God." (Here he kisses
the book, and concludes,)--"And this I will defend against thee by my body, as this court shall
award." And the appellant is thus sworn also.

Here, it may be observed also, the true foundation of the word lie, being esteemed still so
great an affront above all others, as whenever it is pronounced to cause "an immediate affray
and bloodshed."

I have seen people sworn in poetry; and certain it is, that in many countries in Europe the
making of oaths differs. I have some curious specimens of ancient oaths, some in Latin prose,
others in poetry.

Lord Chief Justice Coke was so strict with regard to the receiving of oaths, that when at Cambridge
Summer Assizes, upon a trial of felony, he said, "in case of trespass, although it be only
to the value of twopence, no evidence shall be given to the jury but upon oath, much less where
the life of a man is in question." An action may be brought on the case upon a man calling
another a perjured man, because it shall be intended to be contrary to his oath in a judicial
proceeding.

W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL LETTER

From the Younger Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, upon his death bed, to the Rev. Dr. W.----.

Dear Doctor,--I always looked upon you as a man of true virtue, and know you to be a person
of sound understanding; for however I may have acted in opposition to the principles of religion,
or the dictates of reason, I can honestly assure you I had always the highest veneration for
both. The world and I may now shake hands, for I dare affirm that we are heartily weary of
one another. Oh, doctor, what a prodigal have I been of that most valuable of all possessions,
time. I have squandered it away with a profusion unparalleled; and now that the enjoyment of
a few days would be worth a hecatomb of worlds, I cannot flatter myself with a prospect of
half a dozen hours. How despicable, my dear friend, is that man who never prays to his God
but in the time of distress. In what manner can he supplicate that omnipotent Being in his
affliction with reverence, whom in the tide of his prosperity he never remembered with dread!
Don't brand me with infidelity, my dear doctor, when I tell you I am almost ashamed to offer
up my petitions at the throne of grace, or of imploring that divine mercy in the next world,
which I have so scandalously abused in this! Shall ingratitude to man be looked upon as the
blackest of crimes, and not ingratitude to God? Shall an insult offered to the king be looked
upon in the most offensive light, and yet no notice be taken when the King of kings is treated
with indignity and disrespect. The companions of my former libertinism would scarcely believe
their eyes, my dear doctor, was you to show them this epistle. They would laugh at me as a
dreaming enthusiast, or pity me as a timorous wretch who was shocked at the appearance of futurity.
But whoever laughs at me for being right, or pities me for being sensible of my errors, is
more entitled to my compassion than my resentment. A future life may very well strike terror
into any man who has not acted well in this life; and he must have an uncommon share of courage
indeed who does not shrink at the presence of his God. You see, my dear doctor, the apprehension
of death will soon bring the most profligate to a proper use of their understanding. To what
a situation am I now reduced? Is this odious little hut a suitable lodging for a prince? or
is this anxiety of my mind becoming the characteristic of a Christian? From my rank and fortune
I might have expected affluence to wait on my life, from my religion and understanding, peace
to smile upon my end; instead of which I am afflicted with poverty, and haunted with remorse,
despised by my country, and I fear forsaken by my God! There is nothing so dangerous, my dear
doctor, as extraordinary abilities. I cannot be accused of vanity now, by being sensible I
was once possessed of uncommon qualifications, more especially as I sincerely regret that I
was ever blest with any at all. My rank in life made these accomplishments still more conspicuous;
and, fascinated with the general applause which they procured, I never considered about the
proper means by which they should be displayed; hence, to purchase a smile from a blockhead
I despised, have I frequently treated the virtuous with disrespect, and sported with the Holy
Name of heaven to obtain a laugh from a parcel of fools, who were entitled to nothing but my
contempt. Your men of wit, my dear doctor, generally look upon themselves as discharged from
the duties of religion, and confine the doctrines of the Gospel to people of meaner understandings;
it is a sort of derogation, in their opinion, to comply with the rules of Christianity, and
reckon that man possessed of a narrow genius who studies to be good. What a pity that the Holy
Writings are not made the criterion of true judgment! or that any one should pass for a fine
gentleman in this world, but he that seems solicitous about his happiness in the next. My dear
doctor, I am forsaken by all my acquaintance, utterly neglected by the friends of my bosom
and the dependants of my bounty. But no matter; I am not now fit to converse with the first,
and have no ability to serve the latter. Let me not be cast off wholly, however, by the good.
Favour me with a visit, dear doctor, as soon as possible. Writing to you gives me some ease,
especially upon a subject I could talk of for ever. I am of opinion this is the last visit
I shall ever solicit from you. My distemper is powerful. Come and pray for the departing spirit
of the unhappy BUCKINGHAM.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Sketch Book.

No. LI.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHANTOM HAND.

  I see a hand you cannot see,
  Which beckons me away!

In a lonely part of the bleak and rocky coast of Scotland, there dwelt a being, who was designated
by the few who knew and feared him, the Warlock Fisher. He was, in truth, a singular and a
fearful old man. For years he had followed his dangerous occupation alone; adventuring forth
in weather which appalled the stoutest of the stout hearts that occasionally exchanged a word
with him, in passing to and fro in their mutual employment. Of his name, birth, or descent,
nothing was known; but the fecundity of conjecture had supplied an unfailing stock of materiel
on these points. Some said he was the devil incarnate; others said he was a Dutchman, or some
other "far-away foreigner," who had fled to these comparative solitudes for shelter, from the
retribution due to some grievous crime; and all agreed, that he was neither a Scot nor a true
man. In outward form, however, he was still "a model of a man," tall, and well-made; though
in years, his natural strength was far from being abated. His matted black hair, hanging in
elf-locks about his ears and shoulders, together with the perpetual sullenness which seemed
native in the expression of features neither regular nor pleasing, gave him an appearance unendurably
disgusting. He lived alone, in a hovel of his own construction, partially scooped out of a
rock--was never known to have suffered a visitor within its walls--to have spoken a kind word,
or done a kind action. Once, indeed, he performed an act which, in a less ominous being, would
have been lauded as the extreme of heroism. In a dreadfully stormy morning, a fishing-boat
was seen in great distress, making for the shore--there were a father and two sons in it. The
danger became imminent, as they neared the rocky promontory of the fisher--and the boat upset.
Women and boys were screaming and gesticulating from the beach, in all the wild and useless
energy of despair, but assistance was nowhere to be seen. The father and one of the lads disappeared
for ever; but the younger boy clung, with extraordinary resolution, to the inverted vessel.
By accident, the Warlock Fisher came to the door of his hovel, saw the drowning lad, and plunged
instantaneously into the sea. For some minutes he was invisible amid the angry turmoil; but
he swam like an inhabitant of that fearful element, and bore the boy in safety to the beach.
From fatigue or fear, or the effects of both united, the poor lad died shortly afterwards;
and his grateful relatives industriously insisted, that he had been blighted in the grasp of
his unhallowed rescuer!

