About the middle of the seventeenth century, there resided on the banks of the Till, and a
few miles above its junction with the Tweed, a widow of the name of Barbara Moor. She had had
seven sons; but they and her husband had all fallen in the troubles of the period, and she
was left bereaved, desolate, and without a comforter. Many said that affliction had turned
her brain; but even before she was acquainted with days of sorrow or with nights of lamentation,
there was often a burning wildness in her words, and her manners were not as those of other
women. There was a tinge of extravagance, and a character of vehemence, in all her actions.
Some of her neighbours sympathised with her, because of the affliction that rendered her hearth
desolate; but the greater part beheld her with reverential respect, or looked upon her with
fear and trembling, believing her to be leagued with the inhabitants of the invisible world,
and familiar with the moon and stars, reading in their courses the destinies of nations and
of individuals as in a book. The character of a being who could read the decrees of fate, and
even in some instances control the purposes of men, was certainly that which she seemed most
pleased to assume; and its wildness soothed her troubled thoughts, or directed them into other
channels.

In her youth, and before her father had been compelled to bow his head to the authority of
the wardens of the marches, she had resided in a castellated building, of greater strength
than magnitude, one of the minor strongholds on the Border, and which might have been termed
towers for the protection of stolen cattle. But, when the two nations came beneath the sovereignty
of one monarch, and the spear of war was transformed into a pruning-hook, there went forth
a decree that the strongholds, great and small, along the Borders should be destroyed; and
amongst those that were rendered defenceless and uninhabitable was the turret which, for many
generations, had been occupied by the ancestors of Barbara Moor. During the life-time of her
husband, she had resided in a comfortable-looking farm-house, the appearance of which indicated
that its inhabitants were of a more peaceful character than were those who, a few years before,
had occupied the prison-like houses of strength. She now resided in a small mud-built and turf-covered
hovel, which in winter afforded but a sorry shelter from the "pelting of the pitiless storm."

But Barbara was used to bear the scorching sun of summer and the cold and storms of winter.
She walked in the midst of the tempest, and bowed not her head; and she held converse with
the wild lightning and the fierce hail, speaking of them as the ministers of her will. For
nearly nine months every year she was absent from her clay-built hovel, and none knew whither
she wandered.

It is necessary, however, for the development of our story, that we here make further mention
of her husband and her sons. The elder Moor had been a daring freebooter in his youth; and
often in the morning, and even at dead of night, the "fray of support," the cry for help, and
the sudden summons for neighbours and kinsmen to rise and ride, were raised wheresoever he
trode; and the sleuth-hounds were let loose upon his track. It was his boast that he dared
to ride farther to humble an enemy than any other reiver on either side of the Border. If he
saw, or if he heard, of a herd of cattle or a flock of sheep to his liking, he immediately
"marked it for his own," and seldom failed in securing it; and though the property so obtained
was not purchased with money, it was often procured with a part of his own blood--and with
the blood, and not unfrequently the lives, of his friends, followers, and relatives. And when
law and justice became stronger than the reiver's right, they by no means tamed his spirit.
Though necessity, then, compelled him to be a buyer and seller of cattle, he looked upon the
occupation and the necessity as a disgrace, and he sighed for the honoured and happier days
of his youth, when the freebooter's might was the freebooter's right. His sons were young men
deeply imbued with his spirit; and it was their chiefest pleasure, during the long winter evenings,
to sit and listen to him, while he recorded the exploits and the hairbreadth escapes of his
early days. He frequently related to them strange adventures and contests which he had in his
youth with one Walter Cunningham, who resided near Simprin, in Berwickshire, and who was not
only regarded as a wealthy man, but as one of the boldest on the Borders. He had often boasted
of the number of his herds, and defied the stoutest heart in Northumberland to lay hand upon
their horns. The elder Moor had heard this defiance, and being resolved to prove that he had
both a hand and a heart to put the defiance to the test, the following is one of the adventures
which he related to his sons in connection therewith:--

"It was about the Martinmas," he said, "when the leaves were becoming few and blighted on the
trees; I was courting your mother at the time, and her faither had consented to our marriage;
but, at the same time, he half cast up to me, that I had but an ill-plenished house to take
home a wife to--that I had neither meal in the press, kye in the byre, nor oxen in the court-yard.
His own mailing was but poorly provided at the time; and had he looked at hame, he hardly would
have ventured to throw a reflection at me.

"'Weel, sir, said I to him, 'I dinna deny but what you say is true; but I have supple heels,
a ready hand, a good sword, and a stout heart, and I ken a canny byre where there are threescore
o' sleak beasties, weel worth the harrying.'

"'Now ye speak like a lad of sense and mettle,' said the old man; 'and on the first night that
ye bring them hame, the plumpest and the fattest o' them shall be slaughtered for the marriage-feast
of you and Barbara.'

"Then up spoke your mother's brother, and a winsome young man he was as ye would have found
between Tweed and Tyne; and 'Jonathan,' says he to me, 'when ye gang to drive hame the herd,
I shall go wi' thee, for the sake of a bout with the bold, bragging Cunningham, of Simprin--for
I will lay thee my sword 'gainst a tailor's bodkin, it is him ye mean.'

"'It is him, Duncan,' said I--for your uncle's name was Duncan--'though weel do I ken that
he keeps them strongly guarded, and blood will flow, and weapons be broken, before we get them
into our possession. But gie me your hand, my lad--we two shall be a match for him and a' his
backing. What ye take shall be your own, and what I take, your sister's; and your faither shanna
cast up my toom bink and my ill-stocked mailing.'

"'Weel spoken, bairns!' cried your grandfaither, who had been a first hand at such ploys in
his young days; 'weel spoken! I'm glad to see that the spirits of the young generation arena
gaun backward; though, since King Jamie gaed to be King in London, as weel as at Edinburgh,
our laws are only fit for a few women, and everything is done that can be done to banish manhood,
and make it a crime.'

"'Go upon no such an errand,' said your mother to both of us; 'for there is blood upon baith
your brows, and there is death in your path.'

"'Havers, lassie!' cried her faither angrily; 'are ye at your randering again?--what blood
do ye see on their brows mair than I do, or what death can ye perceive in their path? All your
mother's Highland kinsfolk were never able to throw their second-sighted glamour into my een,
and my own bairn shanna.

"'Call it randers, or what ye will,' answered she; 'but I see it plain as I see the grey hairs
upon your head, that death and lamentation are gathering round my father's hearth, and are
hovering and screaming owre it, like vultures round a desolate place.'

"Her words made my flesh to creep upon my bones; for, both before that, and a hundred times
since, I have heard her say dark and strange things, which sooner or later have owre truly
come to pass. However, the foray across to Simprin was delayed till after our marriage; and
your mother almost persuaded me to give up all thoughts of it, and instead of my former habits
of life, to cultivate the bit ground which my forefaithers had held for two hundred years,
for the consideration of an armed man's service. But her brother taunted me, and said I was
no better than Samson lying wi' his head on the lap of Dalilah, and that I had not only given
his sister my heart to keep, but my courage also. A taunt was a thing that I never could endure,
and that I never would put up wi' from any man that ever was born--and I hope none of ye ever
will, or, as I am your faither! ye should be no longer my sons!

"'Weel, this night be it,' said I to your uncle, 'The Tweed will be fordable at Norham--I will
have my shelty and weapons ready precisely at eleven, and get two friends to accompany us that
I can trust. Do ye the like, and we shall see whose courage will stand firmest before morning.'

"We gave each other our hands upon it, and said it was a bargain, and immediately set about
making preparations for the excursion. Before the appointed hour, he rode up to my door, accompanied
by two of his faither's servants; and I with my two friends were in readiness waiting for him.
Your mother was very bitter against our purpose, and her words and her warnings made my very
heart to shake within my breast. Her eyes flashed, as if they had been balls of fire, and her
very bosom heaved up and down wi' agitation.

"'Husband!--brother!' she cried, 'listen to me, and give up the mad errand on which ye are
bent; for the bloodhound is snuffing the air and gnashing its teeth, and the hooded crow clapping
its wings for a feast, and the owl has looked east, west, north, and south, from the auld turret--it
has screamed wi' joy, and its eyes are fixed on Simprin! Be wise--be warned--or the moon will
set and the sun rise upon unburied bones. Cunningham of Simprin is strong and powerful; he
is strong wi' men, he is strong wi' money; and his herds and his hirsels are strongly guarded.
Again I say to ye, be wise--be warned--desist!--or auld men will tear their grey hairs, and
wives mourn; and those only that live by the gibbet, rejoice wi' the bloodhound and bird of prey!'

"Her words made us both uncomfortable; but we had often been engaged in such exploits before
the expedition was determined on; and we couldna, in the presence of the four men that we had
engaged to accompany us, abandon it. They were fearless and experienced hands at the trade;
but the new laws on the Borders had reduced them to great privations, and their teeth were
watering for the flesh-pots of bygone days, no matter at what risk they were to be obtained.

"It was a delightful moonlight night--almost as bright as day; the moon's brightness put out
the stars, and not aboon a dozen were visible, though there wasna half that number of clouds
in the whole heavens, and they were just like white sheets, that spirits might be sleeping
on in the air! We proceeded by way of Twisel to Norham, where we crossed the Tweed to Ladykirk;
and as at midnight we passed by the auld kirkyard, I believe I actually put my hands to my
ears, lest I should hear the howlets flapping their wings and screaming in the belfry, and
turned my face away from it in a sort of apprehension of seeing a spirit, or something waur,
upon every grave; for your mother's prophecies were uppermost in my mind, in spite of all that
I could say or strive to think. And I believe that your uncle's mind was troubled wi' the same
sort of fears or fancies; for we were both silent the greater part of the road, and spoke very
little to each other.

"However, just about one o'clock, and when the moon was beginning to edge down upon the Lammermuirs,
we arrived at an enclosure, in which Cunningham had sixty head of cattle penned. The six of
us had but little difficulty in breaking down the gate that opened to the enclosure; and just
as we were beginning to drive out the cattle, a man started up on a sort of tower place that
was built upon the wall that surrounded them, and hurled a kind of instrument round his head,
that made a noise like a thousand corn-craiks crying together in concert, and trying which
would craik loudest and fastest. At the unearthly sound, the cattle also commenced a louting
that might easily have been heard at two or three miles off.

"It at once struck me, as the best and wisest step for us to take, that we should put spurs
into our horses, and gallop back to Tweedside; for I kenned it would be impossible for us to
secure a single cow, surrounded, as we were sure to be in a few minutes, by sixty or a hundred
men; and though I was no coward, I was aware that there could be but little bravery in six
men attempting to give battle to sixty. But, before I had time to come to a determination,
or even to speak, I saw your uncle's pistol flash; and even, I may say, before I heard the
report, I perceived the man tumble down headlong from the turret on the wall, among the horns
of the cattle.

"'Ye have done wrong in shooting the lad,' said I; 'ye have raised the whole country side;
and presently Cunningham and all his host will be at our heels.'

"'No fear,' said he; 'there is small danger of that--a dead tongue tells no tales. And Cunningham
and his host, as you term them, may be at our face, but never shall they be at our heels, unless
it be marching or fighting against a common enemy.'

"We began, therefore, to drive out the cattle; but scarce had we driven them from the enclosure,
and turned their heads towards the Tweed, when we heard the baying of Cunningham's blood-hounds,
and the shouts of his people.

"The sounds of their horses' feet became audible, and every moment they gained ground upon
us. It was apparent that, if we persisted in keeping possession of the cattle, and attempting
to drive them before us, within two minutes, and we would be within swords' length of each other.

"'Brother,' said I to your uncle, as I turned and perceived that the number of our pursuers
could not be under thirty, and was conscious that that number would soon be doubled--'Brother,'
said I, 'let us spur on our horses, and leave the cattle to cover our retreat. It is no disgrace
for six men to flee before sixty.'

"'Be it so,' he said; but it was too late. The cattle, scared by the shouting of our pursuers,
the howling of their blood-hounds, and the flashing of their torches (for they had lighted
fir branches to pursue us, as the moon was setting), tossed their horns in the air, and ran
wildly to and fro; so that the horses, in their turn, were scared to pass through them, and
we were so hemmed in between thick woods, that there was no riding round them.

"The followers of Cunningham surrounded us with a wild shout, and a cry for revenge. But we
drew close together--we formed ourselves into a little circle--and waiting the attack of our
antagonists, we contended with them hand to hand. Ten of them lay writhing on the earth, or
had retired, wounded, from the contest; while our little band remained unwounded, unbroken.
For more than a quarter of an hour, we maintained the unequal fight. But victory, on our side,
was impossible, and escape all but hopeless. Your uncle was the first of our number that fell.
The sword of an enemy had pierced his bosom, and I heard him shout to me, in a voice rendered
dismal with agony, never to yield!--to fight to the last! as he lay bleeding on the ground.

"I was then contending, hand to hand, with Cunningham. In our rage, we had closed by the side
of each other, and each grasped the other by the throat. He shortened his sword, and, with
a triumphant laugh, was lunging it at my side, when, with a sudden and violent effort, I hurled
him from the saddle. As he rose, he thrust his sword into the breast of the horse on which
I rode, which reared, sprang forward, and fell, and I was thrown upon the ground, in the midst
of enemies.

"Two of the four who accompanied us were also wounded, and disabled from continuing the fight;
and the other two, upon seeing your uncle and myself upon the ground, surrendered. In my fall,
my hand quitted not my sword. I sprang to my feet, and smote around me to the right and to
the left, with the fury of a wild beast. My object was to cut my way through my adversaries
to the woods. I at length succeeded; but not until I had been thrice wounded. I rushed forward
among the trees, until the sound of my pursuers died away; but the moon had gone down, and
I knew not in what direction I ran, but pressed onward and onward, until exhausted, through
loss of blood, I fell upon the ground. A sleep that was nae sleep came owre me, and a dream
that was nae dream stealed owre my senses; while the blood continued oozing from my wounds,
and my soul was creeping away. Something was growing owre my faculties, just like the opening
of a starry night, as the gloaming dies away, and star after star peeps out. I at first felt
happy; just steeped, as it were, in a sensation of pleasantness; and there were sounds like
sweet music in my ears. But the feeling of happiness was changed, I kenned not how, for one
of pain--the feeling of pleasantness for one of horror--and the sweet sounds into dismal howls.
I started up--I grasped my sword firmer in my hand; but the howls departed not wi' the disturbed
sleep from which I had been startled; but they broke upon my ear, louder and nearer--the howls
of the savage sleuth-hound, that had been sent to track me. I heard the horrid beast snuff
the air, and break into short, hurried, and savage howls of delight, within a few yards of
me. I had not strength to fly; and if I had had strength, flight would have been impossible.
My pursuers seemed to have lost trace of the animal; for I could neither hear their footsteps
nor the sound of their voices. I made no attempt at flight, but stood waiting its approach,
with my sword uplifted to smite it. Loss of blood had brought a dimness over my eyes, which,
added to the darkness of the wood, made me that I had rather to grope and listen for the animal,
than perceive it, as it might attempt to spring upon me. I would rather have met ten enemies
than, in darkness, and in my then fainting state, have waited the attack of that savage beast.
It sprang upon me--I struck towards it with my sword, and wounded it; but the weapon came in
contact with the tangled branches of the underwood, and the force of the blow was broken. In
another moment and I felt the paws of the monster upon my breast. I grasped it by the throat,
and we fell upon the ground together--my enemy uppermost. Its teeth were in my shoulder. After
several vain attempts, I drove my sword through its body. The howls of the fierce beast were
terrible. It withdrew its teeth from my shoulder, and struggled to escape; but I still held
it by the throat--with the grip of death I held it--and still, still strove to pierce it again
and again. I held it till it was stiff, cold, and dead!

"Wounded, faint, and weary as I was, I ventured from the woods before morning broke, and crossed
the Tweed at Kersfield. The sun rose at the very moment that I turned the corner of the hill
which conceals our house from the public road, and revealed to me your mother, sitting on the
blue stone at the door, as cold and frozen-like to appearance as if she had sat there the livelong
night (as I afterwards understood she had.) Her hands were clasped together, her eyes were
raised upward, and her lips were moving, as if she were repeating a prayer, or muttering a
charm. When she saw me approaching the door, she rose from the stone, and, striking her hand
upon her brow, cried--'Jonathan Moor! ye cruel man! ye disregarder of the warnings of her whose
life is as the shadow of your life! said I not that the hound was howling, and the raven was
flapping its wings for a feast?--yet ye would not listen to my voice! And my brother!--where
is my brother?--the son of my mother--more headstrong and foolish than yoursel'! Ye daurna
answer, and ye needna answer. He is dead! The horse of Cunningham have trampled on his body,
and he lies unburied.'

"I didna ken how to find words to speak to her, and, indeed, I was hardly able to speak; for
the pain and stiffness of my wounds were terrible to endure, and there was a sickness about
my heart that made me that I could have been willing to have lain down and died; and even welcomed
death, as a weary man would welcome sleep.

"I was almost recovered from my wounds before we were exactly certain as to your uncle's fate;
and that was when three out of the four that had accompanied us were permitted by Cunningham
to return home, the other having died of his wounds a few days after the unlucky foray. From
their account, it appeared that the person shot by your uncle, while watching the cattle against
the inroads of an enemy, was none other than the only brother of Cunningham. He was not aware
of his brother's death until after the affray, when he was found lying in the enclosure, into
which the cattle were again driven. He was offering a free pardon to all his prisoners, save
him by whose hand his brother fell, upon condition that they would betray him, when your uncle,
starting up from the uncouth litter of branches, rudely torn from the trees, and upon which
he was carried, cried out--'I did it!--my hand brought him down from his watch-box, like a
crow from its roost!'

"'To the turret wi' him!' exclaimed Cunningham wildly; 'and fling him from its pinnacle to
the yard below.'

"The fierce command was fiercely and willingly obeyed. Your uncle was borne to the top of the
tower over the wall, and hurled headlong to the ground; and he lay there, with the cattle trampling
upon him, and the dogs licking his sores, until he was dead.

"Your mother heard the tidings in silence; but, from that day until this, she has never been
as she used to be. Her anger is awful in a woman; and she vows and says the day will come when
she will have revenge upon the name of Cunningham. She has spoken little of her gift of second-sight
since ye were born; but she is often subject to long and gloomy fits of silent melancholy,
as ye have all been witnesses; and I attribute it all to our foray to Simprin. But" (the old
man would add in conclusion), "would that the good old times were come back again, when I could
meet Cunningham in the field; and he should find the hand that unhorsed him five and twenty
years syne has lost but little of its strength."

Now, the eldest sons of Jonathan and Barbara Moor were twins, and the youngest were also twins,
and they had no daughters living. The two eldest were seven and twenty, and the two youngest
seventeen, when the civil war between the King and the Parliament took place. Walter Cunningham
and three sons, with several of his dependants, joined the royal army, and he had but another
son, who was then but an infant of a few months old, and whose mother had died ere his infant
lips drew from her breast the nourishment of life. That infant he regarded as the Benjamin
of his age, and loved him with a double love for his mother's sake. But, deeming that his duty
to his King called him to arms, he, with his three eldest sons and followers, took the field,
leaving the infant in the charge of a tried nurse.

Now, when Jonathan Moor heard that his old enemy had joined the King's standard, although he
was too much of an ancient Borderer to care aught for either one party or another, or for any
cause save his own hand; yet, to know that Cunningham had joined the King's party, was enough
to induce him to join the army of the Parliament. He knew nothing about the quarrel--and he
cared nothing; neither did he understand anything of the religious disputes of the period;
for, generally speaking, religion upon the Borders in those days was at a very low ebb. In
Berwick, and other places, John Knox, the dauntless apostle of the north, with others of his
followers, had laboured some years before; but their success was not great; the Borderers could
not be made to understand why they should not "take who had the power," even though kings and
wardens issued laws, and clergymen denounced judgments against the practice. It was of no use
to tell them "Thou shalt not steal;" the difficulty was to convince them what was theft. It
was, therefore, merely because his former adversary and his sons were in the King's army, that
Jonathan Moor, with his sons, joined the army of the Parliament.

Barbara protested bitterly against the departure of her husband and her sons to take part in
the wars. "Wherefore, Jonathan," she cried, "wherefore will ye sacrifice yourself, and why
will ye gie up my winsome sons to the jaws of death? Is there not enough provided for the eagles'
and the ravens' banquet, without their bonny blue een to peck at? Bide at hame, and, with my
bairns, plough up the green fields, that the earth may provide us with food, as a fond mother,
from its bosom. But go ye to the wars, and your destiny is written--your doom is sealed. The
blackness of lonely midnight hangs owre me as my widow's hood, and, like Rachel, I shall be
left to weep for my children, for they will not be! Turn again, my husband, and my sons lay
down your weapons of war. Hearken unto my voice, and remember that ye never knew one of my
words fall to the ground. If ye go now, ye rush upon the swords that are sharpened for your
destruction, and ye hasten to fatten the raven and the worm; for the winds shall sing your
dirge, as your bonny yellow hair waves to the blast, and the gloaming and the night fling a
shroud owre your uncoffined limbs. Ye go, but ye winna return. Ye will see the sun rise, but
not set--and these are hard words for a mother to say."

But her husband and her sons were men of war. They loved its tumult and its strife, as a hound
loveth the sound that calls it to the chase, or a war-horse the echoes of the bugle; and, though
they at times trembled at her wild words, they regarded them not. Taking their route by way
of Coldstream, Greenlaw, and Soutra Hill, in order to avoid the army of General Leslie, which
then occupied the eastern part of Lammermuir, they descended towards Dunbar, where they enrolled
themselves as volunteers in the army of Cromwell. A few days after their arrival, they joined
a skirmishing party, and, in a wild glen, near to Spot, they encountered a similar company
that had been sent out by General Leslie. In the latter party, were Walter Cunningham and his
three sons, and he, indeed, was their commander.

