    "In the steeple of the great church, in the citie of Roane in Normandy,
    is one great bell with the like inscription." [Like, that is, to the
    inscription at St. Stephen's, Westminster: see "N. & Q." Vol. viii., p.
    108.]

 "Je suis George de Ambois,
  Qui trente-cinque mille pois;
  Mes luis qui me pesera,
  Trente-six mille me trouvera."

 "I am George of Ambois,
  Thirtie-five thousand in pois;
  But he that shall weigh me,
  Thirty-six thousand shall find me."--Weever, Fun. Mon., edit. fol.
      1631, p. 492.

St. Matthew, Great Milton, Oxfordshire:

  1. "I as treble begin.
  3. "I was third ring.
  8. (Great bell) "I to church the living call, and to the grave do
      summons."

Inscription suggested as being suitable for six bells, in the Ecclesiologist (New Series),
vol. i. p. 209.:

  1. "Ave Pater, Rex, Creator:
  2. Ave Fili, Lux, Salvator:
      3. Ave Pax et Charitas.
  4. Ave Simplex, Ave Trine;
  5. Ave Regnans sine fine,
      6. Ave Sancta Trinitas."

Inscriptions are often to be found in Lombardic characters, and on bells of great antiquity.
Can any of your ecclesiological correspondents furnish me with the date of the earliest known
example?

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

On bells in Southrepps Church, Norfolk:

    "Tuba ad Juditium. Campana ad Ecclesiam, 1641."

    "Miserere mei Jhesus Nazarenus Rex Judæorum."

J. L. SISSON. I fear that, if all your readers anxious to clear up an obscure point in an interesting
science take no more trouble than P. P., we shall find ourselves no {449} nearer our object
in the middle of your eightieth volume than we are now in your eighth.

What P. P. is pleased to term the "routine" reason is after all but one among many, and is
not better substantiated than some of the others quoted by me; for though the lozenge has a
"supposed" resemblance to the distaff or fusil, heraldically it is but a supposed one, and
by most writers the difference is very distinctly indicated.

Boyer says:

    "A fusil is a bearing in heraldry made in the form of a spindle, with
    its yarn or thread wound about it. Fusils are longer than lozenges,
    and taper or pointed at both ends."

The same author thus describes a lozenge:

    "A Rhimbus, in geometry, is a figure of four equal and parallel sides,
    but not rectangular."

Robson says:

    "Fusil, a kind of spindle used in spinning. Its formation should be
    particularly attended to, as few painters or engravers make a
    sufficient distinction between the fusil and lozenge."

Nisbet describes a lozenge to be--

    "A figure that has equal sides and unequal angles, as the quarry of a
    glass window placed erect pointways."

He adds:

    "The Latins say, 'Lozengæ factæ sunt ad modum lozangiorum in vitreis.'
    Heralds tell us that their use in armories came from the pavement of
    marble stones of churches, fine palaces and houses, cut after the form
    of lozenges, which pavings the French and Italians call loze and the
    Spaniards loza."

Sylvester de Petra-Sancta of the lozenge says much the same:

    "Scutulas oxigonias scu acutangulus erectas, et quasi gradiles, referri
    debere ad latericias et antiquas domus olim, viz. Nobilium quia vulgus,
    et infamiæ sortis homines, intra humiles casus, vet antra
    inhabitantur."

Of the fusil Nisbet writes:

    "The fusil is another Rhombular figure like the lozenge, but more long
    than broad, and its upper and lower points are more acute than the two
    side points."

He adds that:

    "Chassanus and others make their sides round, as in his description of
    them: 'Fusæ sunt acutæ in superiore et inferiore partibus, et rotundæ
    ex utroque latere;' which description has occasioned some English
    heralds, when so painted or engraven, to call them millers' picks, as
    Sir John Boswell, in his Concords of Armory, and others, to call them
    weavers' shuttles."

Menestrier says of lozenges:

    "Lozange est une figure de quatre pointes, dont deux sont un peu plus
    étendues que les autres, et assise sur une de ces pointes. C'est le
    Rhomb des mathématiciens, et les quarreaux des vitres ordinaires en ont
    la figure."

Of fusils:

    "Fusées sont plus étendues en longue que les lozanges, et affilées en
    point comme les fuseaux. Elles sont pièces d'architecture où l'on se
    sert pour ornement de fusées et de pesons."

The celebrated Boke of St. Albans (1486) thus describes the difference between a lozenge and fusil:

    "Knaw ye y^e differans betwix ffusillis and losyng. Wherefore it is to
    be knaw that ffusillis ar euermore long, also fusyllis ar strattyr
    ouerwart in the baly then ar mascules. And mascules ar larger ou'wartt
    in the baly, and shorter in length than be fusyllis."

The mascle is afterwards explained to be the lozenge pierced. Again:

    "And ye most take thys for a general enformacion and instruccion that
    certanli losyng eu'more stand upright ... and so withowte dowte we have
    the differans of the foresayd signes, that is to wete of mascules and
    losynges."

Dallaway, an elegant writer on Heraldry, says:

    "Of the lozenge the following extraordinary description is given in a
    MS. of Glover, 'Lozenga est pars vitri in vitrea fenestra.' But it may
    be more satisfactory to observe that the lozenge, with its diminutive,
    are given to females instead of an escocheon for the insertion of their
    armorial bearings, one of which is supposed to have been a cushion of
    that shape, and the other is evidently the spindle used in spinning;
    both demonstrative of the sedentary employments of women. On a very
    splendid brass for Eleanor, relict of Thomas of Woodstocke, who died
    1384, she is delineated as resting her head upon two cushions, the
    upper of which is placed lozenge-wise."--P. 140.

The above is taken from his Miscellaneous Observations on Heraldic Ensigns, the following from
the body of his great work:

    "Females being heirs, or conveying feodal lordships to their husbands,
    had, as early as the thirteenth century, the privilege of armorial
    seals. The variations were progressive and frequent; at first the
    female effigy had the kirtle or inner garment emblazoned, or held the
    escocheon over her head, or in her right hand; then three escocheons
    met in the centre, or four were joined at their bases, if the alliance
    admitted of so many. Dimidiation, accollation, and impalement succeeded
    each other at short intervals. But the modern practice of placing the
    arms of females upon a lozenge appears to have originated about the
    middle of the fourteenth century, when we have an instance of five
    lozenges conjoined upon one seal; that of the heir female in the centre
    impaling the arms of her husband, and surrounded by those of her
    ancestors."--P. 400.

I think this quotation from so learned a writer goes far towards settling the whole question.
I confess myself willing to have my theory placed second to this, while I must discard the
"distaff" {450} notion, unless better substantiated than by the French saying from their Salique
law, which I here give for P. P.'s information: "Nunquam corona a lance transibit ad fusum."
I am willing to admit the antiquity of this notion; for while the shape of the man's shield
is traced by Sylvanus Morgan to Adam's spade, he takes the woman's from Eve's spindle!

 "When Adam delved, and Eve span,
  Who was then the gentleman?"

In Geoffry Chaucer's time the lozenge appears to have been an ornament worn by heralds in their
dress or crown. In describing the habit of one, he says:

 "They crowned were as kinges
  With crowns wrought full of lozenges
  And many ribbons and many fringes."

As for the difference between the lozenge and fusil, I could multiply opinions and examples,
but hope those given will be sufficient.

I cannot conclude these few hasty remarks without expressing a wish that one of your correspondents
in particular would take up this subject, to handle which in a masterly manner, his position
is a guaranty of his ability. I refer to the gentleman holding the office of York Herald.

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYRTLE BEE.

(Vol. viii., p. 173.)

From a very early period, and throughout life, I have been accustomed to shooting, and well
remember the bird in question, but whether the term was local or general, I am unable to state,
never having met with it save in one locality; and many years have elapsed since I saw one,
although in the habit of frequenting the neighbourhood where it was originally to be seen.
I attribute its disappearance to local causes. I met with it during a series of years, ending
about twenty-five years since, at which period I lost sight of it. It was to be met with during
the autumn and winter in bogs scattered over with bog myrtle, on Chobham and the adjacent common;
I never met with it elsewhere. It is solitary. I am unacquainted with its food, and only in
a single instance had I ever one in my hand. Its tongue is pointed, sharp, and appearing capable
of penetration. Its colour throughout dusky light blue, slightly tinged with yellow about the
vent. Tail about one inch, being rather long in proportion to the body, causing the wings to
appear forward, with a miniature pheasant-like appearance as it flew, or rather darted, from
bush to bush, with amazing quickness, its wings moving with rapidity, straight in its flight,
keeping near the ground, appearing loth to wing, never passing an intervening bush if ever
so near; and I never saw one fly over eight or ten yards, and never wing a second time, which
induced our dogs (using a sporting phrase) to puzzle them, causing a belief that they were
in most instances trodden under the water and grass in which the myrtle grew, and which nothing
but a dog could approach. I am not aware that any cabinet contains a preserved specimen, or
that the bird has ever been noticed by any naturalist as a British or foreign bird.

Should W. R. D. S. covet farther information as to the probable cause of its disappearance,
and my never having met with it elsewhere, perhaps he will favour me with his address. I cannot
think the bird extinct.

C. BROWN.

Egham, Surrey.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN JOHN DAVIS.

(Vol. viii., p. 385.)

The earliest memoir of captain John Davis, the celebrated arctic navigator, is that given by
the reverend John Prince in his DANMONII ORIENTALES ILLUSTRES, or the worthies of Devon, Exeter,
1701, folio. It is, however, erroneous and defective in important particulars, and has misled
some eminent writers, as Campbell, Eyriès, Barrow, &c.

Despite the assertions of master Prince, I question if captain Davis married a daughter of
sir John Fulford; I am sure he was not the first pilot who conducted the Hollanders to the
East-Indies; I am sure the journal of the voyage is not printed in Hakluyt; I am sure the narrative
of his voyage with sir Edward Michelborne is neither dedicated to the earl of Essex nor printed
in Hakluyt; I am sure he did not write the Rutter, or brief directions for sailing into the
East-Indies; I am sure he wrote two works of which Prince says nothing; I am sure he did not
make five voyages to the East-Indies; and I am sure, to omit other oversights, that he did
not "return home safe again." To the latter point I shall now confine myself.

In 1604 king James, regardless of the charter held by the East-India company, granted a license
to sir Edward Michelborne, one of his gentlemen-pensioners, to discover and trade with the
"countries and domynions of Cathaia, China, Japan," &c. This license, preserved in the Rolls-chapel,
is dated the twenty-fifth of June. On the fifth of December sir Edward set sail from Cowes
with the Tiger, a ship of 240 tons, and a pinnace--captain Davis being, as I conceive, the
second in command. In December 1605, being near the island of Bintang, they fell in with a
junk of 70 tons, carrying ninety Japanese, most of them {451} "in too gallant a habit for saylers:"
in fact, they were pirates! The unfortunate result shall now be stated in the words of the
pirate Michelborne:

    "Vpon mutuall courtesies with gifts and feastings betweene vs,
    sometimes fiue and twentie or sixe and twentie of their chiefest came
    aboord: whereof I vould not suffer aboue sixe to have weapons. Their
    was neuer the like number of our men aboord their iunke. Captaine Dauis being beguiled with their
    humble semblance, would not possesse himselfe of their weapons, though
    I sent twice of purpose from my shippe to will him to doe it. They
    passed all the day, my men searching in the rice, and they looking on:
    at the sunne-setting, after long search and nothing found, saue a
    little storax and beniamin: they seeing oportunitie, and talking to the
    rest of their companie which were in my ship, being neere to their
    iunke, they resolued, at a watch-word betweene them, to set vpon vs
    resolutely in both ships. This being concluded, they suddenly killed
    and droue ouer-boord, all my men that were in their ship; and those
    which were aboord my ship sallied out of my cabbin, where they were
    put, with such weapons as they had, finding certaine targets in my
    cabbin, and other things that they vsed as weapons. My selfe being
    aloft on the decke, knowing what was likely to follow, leapt into the
    waste, where, with the boate swaines, carpenter and some few more, wee
    kept them vnder the halfe-decke. At their first comming forth of the
    cabbin, they met captain Dauis comming out of the gun-roome, whom they
    pulled into the cabbin, and giuing him sixe or seuen mortall wounds,
    they thrust him out of the cabbin before them. His wounds were so
    mortall, that he dyed assoone as he came into the waste."--Purchas, i.
    137.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Clouds in Photographs.--I wish one of your photographic correspondents would inform me, how
clouds can be put into photographs taken on paper? Mr. Buckle's photographs all contain clouds?

[Sigma].

"The Stereoscope considered in relation to the Philosophy of Binocular Vision" is the title
of a small pamphlet written by a frequent contributor to this journal, Mr. C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY,
in which he has "attempted to sketch out such modifications of the theory of double vision
as appear to him to be entailed on the rationale of the stereoscope." The corroboration thus
indirectly afforded to the principles of Sir William Hamilton's Philosophy of Perception has
induced MR. INGLEBY to dedicate his word to that distinguished metaphysician. The essay will,
we have no doubt, be perused with great interest by many of our photographic friends, for whose
gratification we shall borrow its concluding paragraph.

    "In conclusion we must not forget to acknowledge our obligations to the
    photographic art, not merely as one of the most suggestive results of
    natural science, but as a means of the widest and soundest utility. To
    antiquaries the services of photography have a unique value, for, by
    perpetuating in the form of negatives those monuments of nature and art
    which, though exempt from common accident, are still subject to gradual
    decay from time, it places in the hands of us all microscopically exact
    antitypes of objects which, from change or distance, are otherwise
    inaccessible. To the artist they afford the means of facilitating the
    otherwise laborious, and often mechanical, task of drawing in detail
    from nature and from the human figure.

    "To the physician, to the naturalist, and to the man of science, the
    uses of photography are various and important, and already the
    discoveries which have been directly due to this modern art are of
    stupendous utility.

    "To the metaphysician, its uses may be sufficiently gleaned from the
    applications considered in the preceding pages. But to all these
    classes of men the photographic art derives its chief glory from its
    application to the stereoscope; and if, for elucidating the principles
    of vision by means of this application, we have in any degree given a
    stimulus to the practice and improvement of the photographic processes,
    our pains have been happily and fruitfully bestowed."

Muller's Processes.--Would you inform me, through the medium of "N. & Q.," what manufacture
of paper is best adapted to the two processes of Mr. Muller? I have tried several: with some
I find that the combination of their starch with the iodide of iron causes a dark precipitate
upon the face of the paper; and with those papers prepared with size, there appears to me great
difficulty (in his improved process after the paper is moistened with aceto-nitrate of silver)
to procure an equal distribution of the iodide over its surface, as it invariably dries or
runs off parts of the paper, or is repelled by spots of size on the paper when dipped in the
iodide of iron bath.--A reply to the foregoing question would greatly oblige

A CONSTANT READER.

Essex.

Positives on Glass.--Sometimes, when your sitter is gone, and you hold your portrait up to
the light to examine its density, you find in the face and other parts which are dark, so viewed,
minute transparent specks, scarcely bigger than a pin's point. When the picture is backed with
black lacquer, you have consequently small black spots, which deform the positive, especially
when viewed through a lens of short focus. A friend of mine {452} cures this defect very easily.
After having applied the amber varnish, he stops out the spots with a little oil-paint that
matches the lights of the picture; of course the paint is put upon the varnished side of the
glass. When the paint is dry, the black lacquer is carried over the whole as usual.

T. D. EATON.

Norwich.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Peculiar Ornament in Crosthwaite Church (Vol. viii., p. 200.).--I am exceedingly obliged to
CHEVERELLS for his reply to any Query. I am sorry to say that I failed to make a note of the
number of the circles; but, as far as I can remember, there are six windows in each aisle,
so in all there would be twenty-four, each window having two carved upon it, one on the right
jamb without, and the other on the left within.

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton.

Nursery Rhymes (Vol. viii., p. 455.).--I would suggest to L. that a consideration of rhymes
may sometimes indicate, by the change in the pronunciation, the antiquity of the verse e.g.,

 "Hush aby, baby, on the green bough,
  When the wind blows the cradle will rock,
  And when the bough breaks," &c.

Here, according to modern pronunciation, the rhymes of the first couplet are imperfect, so
that it was probably composed in the Saxon era, or while the word bough was still pronounced
bog or bock. I fear that your correspondents on this subject have formed an exaggerated idea
of the importance of the expected note, and that they will see but a "ridiculus mus" after
all. As I have no means at hand at the present moment wherewith to attempt to elucidate the
Minshull genealogy, I shall content myself by simply sending my original notes, namely, brief
abstracts of the wills of Thomas and Nathan Paget preserved at Doctors' Commons.

Thomas Paget, minister of the gospel at Stockport, in Cheshire, makes his will May 23, 1660;
mentions his three daughters Dorothy, Elizabeth, and Mary; and leaves estates at different
places in Shropshire to his two sons, Dr. Nathan and Thomas, whom he appoints his executors.
He entreats his cousin Minshull, apothecarie in Manchester, to be overseer of his will, which
was proved October 16, 1660.

[I have before (Vol. v., p. 327.) shown the connexion between the Pagets and Manchester.]

Nathan Paget, Doctor in Medicine, will dated January 7, 1678, was then living in the parish
of St. Stephen's, Coleman Street, London, leaves certain estates, and his house in London where
he resided, to his brother Thomas Paget, clerk. Bequests to his cousin John Goldsmith of the
Middle Temple, gent., and his cousin Elizabeth Milton, to the Society of Physicians, and the
poor of the parish of St. Stephen's. Will proved January 15, 1678.

I have omitted to note what the bequests were. I will only add, that some time ago I dropped
my alias of CRANMORE, and have occasionally appeared in your sixth Volume as

ARTHUR PAGET.

Watch-paper Inscriptions (Vol. viii., p. 316.).---I recollect, when at school, having an old
silver watch with the following printed lines inside the case:

 "Time is--the present moment well employ;
  Time was--is past--thou canst not it enjoy;
  Time future--is not, and may never be;
  Time present--is the only time for thee."

JNO. D. ALLCROFT.

Poetical Tavern Signs (Vol. viii., p. 242.).--May I add to those mentioned by your correspondent
MR. WARDE, one at Chatham. On the sign-board is painted "an arm embowed, holding a malt-shovel,"
underneath which is written,--

 "Good malt makes good beer,
  Walk in, and you'll find it here."

G. BRINDLEY ACWORTH.

Star Hill, Rochester.

At a small inn in Castleton, near Whitby, the sign represents Robin Hood and Little John in
their usual forest costume, and underneath appear the following doggerel lines:

 "To gentlemen and yeomen good,
  Come in and drink with Robin Hood;
  If Robin Hood is not at home,
  Come in and drink with Little John."

F. M.

Parish Clerks' Company (Vol. viii., p. 341.).--The hall is in Silver Street, Wood Street; the
beadle is Mr. Bullard, No. 9. Grocers' Hall Court, Poultry.

If the circulars of the company were attended to, a great service would be rendered to the
public; but as there are about one hundred and sixty churches in the metropolis, the chance
of a parish clerk finding any particular marriage, &c. is, at the best, but as one to one hundred
and sixty. Besides this, the parish registers are generally in the custody of the clergyman,
and it is therefore feared that the searches are but too often {453} neglected, unless the
reward is sufficiently tempting to induce the loss of time and the probability of an unsuccessful
examination.

JOHN S. BURN.

"Elijah's Mantle" (Vol. viii., p. 295.).--James Sayers, Esq., a solicitor of Staple Inn, was
the author of this beautiful poem, and he was also the reputed author of some of Gilray's best
caricatures.

SUUM CUIQUE.

Histories of Literature (Vol. viii., p. 222.).--In addition to the works of Hallam, Maitland,
and Berrington mentioned by you, I would recommend your correspondent ILMONASTERIENSIS to procure
an anonymous publication, entitled An Introduction to the Literary History of the Fourteenth
and Fifteenth Centuries, London, 1798, 8vo. It is a much neglected work, replete with interesting
information relative to the state of literature during the dark ages. I observe a copy in calf,
marked 4s. 6d. in a bookseller's catalogue published lately in this city.

T. G. S.

Edinburgh.

Birthplace of General Monk (Vol. viii., p. 316.).--I regret to find I am in error in saying
that Lysons positively assigns Landcross as Monk's birthplace in the Magna Britannia.

The mistake is of slight import as respects the Query, but accuracy in citing authorities is
at least desirable, and ought (in common justice) to be ever most scrupulously regarded.

"General Monk appears to have been a native of this village; he was baptised at Lancras, December
11, 1608," is, I find, the actual passage, the substance of which (writing in Germany, far
from any means of reference), at the time believed I was more correctly quoting.

F. KYFFIN LENTHALL.

Reform Club.

Books chained to Desks in Churches (Vol. viii., pp. 93. 273.).--In the library of St. Walburg's
Church at Zutphen, consisting chiefly of Bibles and other Latin works, the books are fastened
to the desks by iron chains. This was done, it is said, to prevent the Evil One from stealing
them, a crime of which he had been repeatedly guilty. The proof of this is found in the stone-floor,
where his foot-marks are impressed, and still show the direction of his march: they also teach
us the important fact, that the feet of his tenebrious majesty are very like those of a large
dog, and do not, as is generally supposed, resemble those of a horse.--From the Navorscher.

L. V. H.

In the chancel of Leyland Church, Lancashire, are four folio books chained to a window seat
which makes a sloping desk for them: they are Foxe's Martyrs and Jewell's Apology, both in
black-letter, title-pages torn, and much worn; and a Preservative against Popery, in 2 vols.,
dated 1738.

P. P.

A copy of the Bible was formerly affixed by a chain in Wimborne Minster, Dorset, but has been
removed to a certain library.

The covers of a book are chained to a desk in the church of Kettering; the book itself is gone.

B. H. C.

In the parish church of Borden, near Sittingbourne, Kent, a copy of Comber on the Common Prayer
is chained to a stand in the chancel.

ESTA.

Pedigree Indices (Vol. viii., p. 317.).--If CAPTAIN wishes to make a search for a pedigree
in the libraries at Cambridge, he will learn from the MSS. Catalogue of 1697 in which of the
libraries MS. volumes of heraldry and genealogy ought to be found; he should then apply, either
through some master of arts, or with a proper letter of introduction in his hand, to the librarian
for leave to search the volumes. He will find that generally every facility is afforded him
which the safe keeping of historical evidences allows. He will do well to select term-time
for the period of making a search; and before seeking admission to a college librarian, it
will be found convenient to both parties for him to give a day's notice, by letter or card,
to the librarian, who has often occupations and engagements that cannot always be got rid of
at the call of a chance visitor.

CANTAB.

There are not any published genealogical tables showing the various kindred of William of Wykeham
or Sir Thomas White similar to those contained in the Stemmata Chicheliana. A few descents
of kindred of Sir Thomas White may be seen in Ashmole's History of Berkshire, 3 vols. 8vo.

G.

Portrait of Hobbes (Vol. viii. p 368.).--I have an etching (size about 6½ in. by 8½ in.) inscribed:

    "Vera et Viva Effigies THOMÆ HOBBES, Malmesburiensis."

and under this:

    "I. Bapt. Caspar pinxit; W. Hollar fecit aqua forti, 1665."

It is a half-length portrait, and represents Hobbes uncovered, with his hands folded in his
robe; and is without any arch or other ornament.

Did Caspar paint more than one portrait of Hobbes? Is this the one mentioned by Hollar, in
his letter dated 1661, quoted by MR. SINGER.

WM. MCCREE.

Tenets or Tenents (Vol. vii., p.205.; Vol. viii., p. 330.).--Were there two editions of the
Vulgar Errors published in the same year, 1646? For my copy, "printed by T. H. for Edward Dod,
and {454} are to be sold in Ivie Lane, 1646," and which I have always supposed to be of the
first edition, has "Tenents," very distinctly, on the title-page. On the fly-leaf, opposite
to the title-page, is the approbation of John Downame, dated March 14, 1645, and commencing thus:

    "I have perused these learned animadversions upon the common tenets and
    opinions of men," &c.

H. T. G.

Hull.

Door-head Inscriptions (Vol. vii., pp. 23. 190. 588.; Vol. viii., pp. 38. 162.).--Over a house
in Hexham, in the street called Gilligate, is the following inscription:

         "C. D.   1683.   J. D.

  Reason doth wonder, but Faith he tell can,
  That a maid was a mother, and God was a man.
  Let Reason look down, and Faith see the wonder;
  For Faith sees above, and Reason sees under.
  Reason doth wonder what by Scripture is meant,
  Which says that Christ's body is our Sacrament:
  That our bread is His body, and our drink is His blood,
  Which cannot by Reason be well understood;
  For Faith sees above, and Reason below,
  For Faith can see more than Reason doth know."

CEYREP.

The following is reported to have been inscribed by the Pope (1725) over the gate of the Apostolical
Chancery:

 "Fide Deo--dic sæpe preces--peccare caveto--
    Sit humilis--pacem delige--magna fuge--
  Multa audi--dic pauca--tace secreta--minori
    Parcito--majori cedito--ferto parem.
  Propria fac--non differ opus--sis æquas egeno--
    Parta tuere--pati disce--memento mori."

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Hour-glass Stand (Vol. vii., p. 489.; Vol. viii., pp. 82. 209. 328.).--There is an hour-glass
stand attached to the right-hand side of the pulpit of Edingthorpe Church, Norfolk. The date
of the pulpit is 1632.

I. L. S.

Bulstrode Whitlock and Whitelocke Bulstrode (Vol. viii., p. 293.).--Bulstrode Whitlock was
the son of Sir James Whitlock, Kt., by Elizabeth, daughter of Edward Bulstrode, of Hedgley-Bulstrode,
in the county of Buckingham; and Whitelocke Bulstrode was the son of Sir Richard, eldest son
of the above-mentioned Edward Bulstrode. (See Lives of the Lords Chancellors, &c., by an Impartial
Hand, vol. ii p. 1.; and Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary.)

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

Movable Metal Types anno 1435 (Vol. vii., p. 405.).--Although I am not able to give any information
concerning Sister Margarite, or the convent at Mur, I yet may observe, 1st, that the last three
letters of the legend - - K can hardly refer to Laurens Janzroon Coster, for his name in 1435
was never spelt with K, but always with C; and, besides, if a proper name be here intended,
it will certainly be that of the binder. 2ndly, that in the catalogue of the Haarlem City Library,
from p. 77. to 112., mention is made of six works, which, though bearing no date, were, it
is more than probable, printed with movable metal types before 1435. One of these, Aelii Donati
Grammaticæ Latinæ Fragmenta duo, was printed before 1425, and the writer of the catalogue adds
in his notes:

    "Ipsos typos, quibus hæ lamellæ sunt excusæ, fuisse mobiles, cum
    nonnullæ literæ inversæ evidenter testantur, tum omnium expertissimorum
    typographorum reique typographicæ peritissimorum arbitrûm, qui has
    lacinias contemplati sunt, unanima et constans affirmavit sententia.
    Quin et fusos eos esse perhibuerunt plurimi, et in his Koningius,
    magno quamvis studio negaverat typorum ligneorum mobilium acerrimus
    propugnator Meermannus."

From the Navorscher. CONSTANTEE.

