 Esquiros, the  Republican, cried from his seat, in momentous words,
"You  have a light heart, and the blood of nations is about to flow!" To the apology of the
Prime-Minister, "that in the discharge of a duty the heart is not troubled," Jules Favre, the
Republican leader, of acknowledged moderation and ability, flashed forth, "When the discharge
of this duty involves the slaughter of two nations, one may well have the heart troubled!"
Beyond these declarations, giving utterance to the natural sentiments of humanity, was the
positive objection, most forcibly presented by Thiers, so famous in the Chamber and in literature,
"that the satisfaction due to France had been accorded her---that Prussia had expiated by a
check the grave fault she had committed,"--that France had prevailed in substance, and all
that remained was "a question of form," "a question of susceptibility," "questions of etiquette."
The experienced statesman asked for the dispatches. Then came a confession. The Prime-Minister
replied, that he had "nothing to communicate,--that, in the true sense of the term, there had
been no dispatches,--that there were only verbal communications gathered up in reports, which,
according to diplomatic usage, are not communicated." Here Emmanuel Arago interrupted: "It
is on these reports that you make war!" The Prime-Minister proceeded to read two brief telegrams
from Count Benedetti at Ems, when De Choiseul very justly exclaimed: "We cannot make war on
that ground; it is impossible!" Others cried out from their seats,--Garnier Pages saying, "These
are phrases"; Emmanuel Arago protesting, "On this the civilized world will pronounce you wrong";
to which Jules Favre added, "Unhappily, true!" Thiers and Jules Favre, with vigorous eloquence,
charged the war upon the Cabinet: Thiers declaring, "I regret to be obliged to say that we
have war by the fault of the Cabinet"; Jules Favre alleging, "If we have war, it is thanks
to the politics of the Cabinet;....from the exposition that has been made, so far as the general
interests of the two countries are concerned, there is no avowable motive for war." Girault
exclaimed, in similar spirit: "We would be among the first to come forward in a war for the
country, but we do not wish to come forward in a dynastic and aggressive war." The Duc de Gramont,
who on the 6th of July flung down the gauntlet, spoke once more for the Cabinet, stating solemnly,
what was not the fact, that the Prussian Government had communicated to all the Cabinets of
Europe the refusal to receive the French Ambassador, and then on this misstatement ejaculating:
"It is an outrage on the Emperor and on France; and if, by impossibility, there were found
in my country a Chamber to bear and tolerate it, I would not remain five minutes Minister of
Foreign Affairs." In our country we have seen how the Southern heart was fired; so also was
fired the heart of Franco. The Duke descended from the tribune amidst prolonged applause, with
cries of "Bravo!"--and at his seat (so says the report) "received numerous felicitations."
Such was the atmosphere of the Chamber at this eventful moment. The orators of the Opposition,
pleading for delay in the interest of peace, were stifled; and when Gambetta, the young and
fearless Republican, made himself heard in calling for the text of the dispatch communicating
the refusal to receive the Ambassador, to the end that the Chamber, France, and all Europe
might judge of its character, he was answered by the Prime-Minister with the taunt that "for
the first time in a French Assembly there were such difficulties on a certain side in explaining
a question of honor." Such was the case as presented by the Prime-Minister, and on this question
of honor he accepted war "with a light heart." Better say, with no heart at all;--for who so
could find in this condition of things sufficient reason for war was without heart. [Footnote:
For the full debate, see the Journal Officid du Soir, 17 Juillet 1870, and Supplement.]

During these brief days of solicitude, from the 6th to the 15th of July, England made an unavailing
effort for peace. Lord Lyons was indefatigable; and he was sustained at home by Lord Granville,
who as a last resort reminded the two parties of the stipulation at the Congress of Paris,
which they had accepted, in favor of Arbitration as a substitute for War, and asked them to
accept the good offices of some friendly power. [Footnote: Earl Granville to Lords Lyons and
Loftus, July 15, 1870,--Correspondence respecting the Negotiations preliminary to the War between
France and Prussia, p. 35: Parliamentary Papers, 1870, Vol. LXX.] This most reasonable proposition
was rejected by the French Minister, who gave new point to the French case by charging that
Prussia "had chosen to declare that France had been affronted in the person of her Ambassador,"
and then positively insisting that "it was this boast which was the gravamen of the offence."
Capping the climax of barbarous absurdity, the French Minister did not hesitate to announce
that this "constituted an insult which no nation of any spirit could brook, and rendered it,
much to the regret of the French Government, impossible to take into consideration the mode
of settling the original matter in dispute which was recommended by her Majesty's Government."
LXX.] Thus was peaceful Arbitration repelled. All honor to the English Government for proposing it!

The famous telegram put forward by France as the gravamen, or chief offence, was not communicated
to the Chamber. The Prime- Minister, though hard-pressed, held it back. Was it from conviction
of its too trivial character? But it is not lost to the history of the duel. This telegram,
with something of the brevity peculiar to telegraphic dispatches, merely reports the refusal
to see the French Ambassador, without one word of affront or boast. It reports the fact, and
nothing else; and it is understood that the refusal was only when this functionary presented
himself a second time in one day on the same business. Considering the interests involved,
it would have been better, had the King seen him as many times as he chose to call; yet the
refusal was not unnatural. The perfect courtesy of his Majesty on this occasion furnished no
cause of complaint. All that remained for pretext was the telegram. [Footnote: See references,
ante, p. 19, Note 1. For this telegram in the original, see Aegidi und Klauhold, Staatsarchiv,
(Hamburg, 1870,) 19 Band, S. 44, No. 1033.]

FORMAL DECLARATION OF WAR.

The scene in the Legislative Body was followed by the instant introduction of bills making
additional appropriations for the Army and Navy, calling out the National Guard, and authorizing
volunteers for the war. This last proposition was commended by the observation that in France
there were a great many young people liking powder, but not liking barracks, who would in this
way be suited; and this was received with applause. [Footnote: Ibid., 20 Juillet.] On the 20th
of July the Duc de Gramont appeared once more in the tribune, and made the following speech:---

"Conformably to customary rules, and by order of the Emperor, I have invited the Charge d'Affaires
of France to notify the Berlin Cabinet of our resolution to seek by arms the guaranties which
we have not been able to obtain by discussion. This step has been taken, and I have the honor
of making known to the Legislative Body that in consequence a state of war exists between France
and Prussia, beginning the 19th of July. This declaration applies equally to the allies of
Prussia who lend her the cooperation of their arms against us." [Footnote: Ibid., 23 Juillet.]

Here the French Minister played the part of trumpeter in the duel, making proclamation before
his champion rode forward. According to the statement of Count Bismarck, made to the Parliament
at Berlin, this formal Declaration of War was the solitary official communication from France
in this whole transaction, being the first and only note since the candidature of Prince Leopold.
[Footnote: Substance of Speech of Bismarck to the Reichstag, [July 20, 1870,] explanatory of
Documents relating to the Declaration of War,--Franco-Prussian War, No. 3, p. 29: Parliamentary
Papers, 1870, Vol. LXX. Discours du Comte de Bismarck am Reichstag, le 20 Juillet 1870: Angeberg,
[Chodzko,] Recueil des Traites, etc., concernant la Guerre Franco-Allemande, Tom. I. p. 215.]
How swift this madness will be seen in a few dates. On the 6th of July was uttered the first
defiance from the French tribune; on the 15th of July an exposition of the griefs of France,
in the nature of a Declaration of War, with a demand for men and money; on the 19th of July
a state of war was declared to exist.

Firmly, but in becoming contrast with the "light heart" of France, this was promptly accepted
by Germany, whose heart and strength found expression in the speech of the King at the opening
of Parliament, hastily assembled on the 19th of July. With articulation disturbed by emotion
and with moistened eyes, his Majesty said:--

"Supported by the unanimous will of the German governments of the South as of the North, we
turn the more confidently to the love of Fatherland and the cheerful self-devotion of the German
people with a call to the defence of their honor and their independence." [Footnote: Aegidi
und Klauhold, Staatsarchiv, 19 Band, S. 107, No. 4056. And thus the two champions stood front
to front.

THE TWO HOSTILE PARTIES.

Throughout France, throughout Germany, the trumpet sounded, and everywhere the people sprang
to arms, as if the great horn of Orlando, after a sleep of ages, had sent forth once more its
commanding summons. Not a town, not a village, that the voice did not penetrate. Modern invention
had supplied an ally beyond anything in fable. From all parts of France, from all parts of
Germany, armed men leaped forward, leaving behind the charms of peace and the business of life.
On each side the muster was mighty, armies counting by the hundred thousand. And now, before
we witness the mutual slaughter, let us pause to consider the two parties, and the issue between
them.

France and Germany are most unlike, and yet the peers of each other, while among the nations
they are unsurpassed in civilization,  each prodigious in resources, splendid in genius, and
great  in renown. No two nations are so nearly matched. By Germany  I now mean not only the
States constituting North Germany, but  also Wurtemberg, Baden, and Bavaria of South Germany,
allies in the present war, all of which together make about fifty-three millions of French
hectares, being very nearly the area of France. The population of each is not far from thirty-eight
millions, and it would be difficult to say which is the larger. Looking at finances, Germany
has the smaller revenue, but also the smaller debt, while her rulers, following the sentiment
of the people, cultivate a wise economy, so that here again substantial equality is maintained
with France. The armies of the two, embracing regular troops and those subject to call, did
not differ much in numbers, unless we set aside the authority of the "Almanach de Gotha," which
puts the military force of France somewhat vaguely at 1,350,000, while that of North Germany
is only 977,262, to which must be added 49,949 for Bavaria, 34,953 for Wuertemberg, and 43,703
for Baden, making a sum-total of 1,105,867. This, however, is chiefly on paper, where it is
evident France is stronger than in reality. Her available force at the outbreak of the war
probably did not amount to more than 350,000 bayonets, while that of Germany, owing to her
superior system, was as much as double this number. In Prussia every man is obliged to serve,
and, still further, every man is educated. Discipline and education are two potent adjuncts.
This is favorable to Germany. In the Chassepot and needle-gun the two are equal. But France
excels in a well- appointed Navy, having no less than 55 iron-clads, and 384 other vessels
of war, while Germany has but 2 iron-clads, and 87 other vessels of war. [Footnote: For the
foregoing statistics, see Almanach de Gotha, 1870, under the names of the several States referred
to,--also, for Areas and Population, Tableaux Comparatifs, I., II., III., in same volume, pp.
1037-38.] Then again for long generations has existed another disparity, to the great detriment
of Germany. France has been a nation, while Germany has been divided, and therefore weak. Strong
in union, the latter now claims something more than that dominion of the air once declared
to be hers, while France had the land and England the sea. [Footnote: "So wie die Franzosen
die Herren des Landes sind, die Englaender die des groessern Meeres, wir die der Beide und
Alles umfassenden Luft sind."--RICHTER, (Jean Paul,) Frieden-Predigt an Deutschland, V.: Saemtliche
Werke, (Berlin, 1828-38,) Theil XXXIV. s. 13.] The dominion of the land is at last contested,
and we are saddened inexpressibly, that, from the elevation they have reached, these two peers
of civilization can descend to practise the barbarism of war, and especially that the laud
of Descartes, Pascal, Voltaire, and Laplace must challenge to bloody duel the laud of Luther,
Leibnitz, Kant, and Humboldt.

FOLLY.

Plainly between these two neighboring powers there has been unhappy antagonism, constant, if
not increasing, partly from the memory of other days, and partly because Prance could not bear
to witness that German unity which was a national right and duty. Often it has been said that
war was inevitable. But it has come at last by surprise, and on "a question of form." So it
was called by Thiers; so it was recognized by Ollivier, when he complained of insensibility
to a question of honor; and so also by the Due de Gramont, when he referred it all to a telegram.

There can be no quarrel in a straw or for an egg-shell, unless men have gone mad. Nor can honor
in a civilized age require any sacrifice of reason or humanity.

UNJUST PRETENSION OF FRANCE TO INTERFERE WITH THE CANDIDATURE OF HOHENZOLLERN.

If the utter triviality of the pretext were left doubtful in the debate, if its towering absurdity
were not plainly apparent, if its simple wickedness did not already stand before us, we should
find all these characteristics glaringly manifest in that unjust pretension which preceded
the objection of form, on which France finally acted. A few words will make this plain.

In a happy moment Spain rose against Queen Isabella, and, amidst cries of "Down with the Bourbons!"
drove her from the throne which she dishonored. This was in September, 1868. Instead of constituting
a Republic at once, in harmony with those popular rights which had been proclaimed, the half-hearted
leaders proceeded to look about for a King; and from that time till now they have been in this
quest, as if it were the Holy Grail, or happiness on earth. The royal family of Spain was declared
incompetent. Therefore a king must be found outside,----and so the quest was continued in other
lands. One day the throne is offered to a prince of Portugal, then to a prince of Italy, but
declined by each,----how wisely the future will show. At last, after a protracted pursuit of
nearly two years, the venturesome soldier who is Captain-General and Prime-Minister, Marshal
Prim, conceives the idea of offering it to a prince of Germany. His luckless victim is Prince
Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, a Catholic, thirty-five years of age, and colonel of the
first regiment of the Prussian foot-guards, whose father, a mediatized German prince, resides
at Duesseldorf. The Prince had not the good sense to decline. How his acceptance excited the
French Cabinet, and became the beginning of the French pretext, I have already exposed; and
now I come to the pretension itself.

By what title did France undertake to interfere with the choice of Spain? If the latter was
so foolish as to seek a foreigner for king, making a German first among Spaniards, by what
title did any other power attempt to control its will? To state the question is to answer it.
Beginning with an outrage on Spanish independence, which the Spain of an earlier day would
have resented, the next outrage was on Germany, in assuming that an insignificant prince of
that country could not be permitted to accept the invitation,---- all of which, besides being
of insufferable insolence, was in that worst dynastic spirit which looks to princes rather
than the people. Plainly France was unjustifiable. When I say it was none of her business,
I give it the mildest condemnation. This was the first step in her monstrous blunder-crime.

Its character as a pretext becomes painfully manifest, when we learn more of the famous Prince
Leopold, thus invited by Spain and opposed by France. It is true that his family name is in
part the same as that of the Prussian king. Each is Hohenzollern; but he adds Sigmaringen to
the name. The two are different branches of the same family; but you must ascend to the twelfth
century, counting more than twenty degrees, before you come to a common ancestor. [Footnote:
Conversations-Lexikon, (Leipzig, 1866,) 8 Band, art. HOHENZOLLERN. Carlyle's History of Friedrich
II., (London, 1858,) Book III. Cli. 1, Vol. I. p. 200.] And yet on this most distant and infinitesimal
relationship the French pretension is founded. But audacity changes to the ridiculous, when
it is known that the Prince is nearer in relationship to the French Emperor than to the Prussian
King, and this by three different intermarriages, which do not go hack to the twelfth century.
Here is the case. His grandfather had for wife a niece of Joachim Murat,[Footnote: Antoinette,
daughter of Etienne Murat, third brother of Joachim.--- Biographic Genemle, (Didot,) Tom. XXXVI.
col. 984, art. MURAT, note.] King of Naples, and brother-in-law of the first Napoleon; and
his father had for wife a daughter of Stephanie de Beauharnais, an adopted daughter of the
first Napoleon; so that Prince Leopold is by his father great-grand- nephew of Murat, and by
his mother he is grandson of Stephanie de Beauharnais, who was cousin and by adoption sister
of Horteuse de Beauharnais, mother of the present Emperor; and to this may be added still another
connection, by the marriage of his father's sister with Joachim Napoleon, Marquis of Pepoli,
grandson of Joachim Murat.[Footnote: Almanach de Gotha, 1870, pp. 85-87, art. HOHENZOLLERN-SIGMARINGEN.]
It was natural that a person thus connected with the Imperial Family should be a welcome visitor
at the Tuileries; and it is easy to believe that Marshal Prim, who offered him the throne,
was encouraged to believe that the Emperor's kinsman and guest would be favorably regarded
by France. And yet, in the face of these things, and the three several family ties, fresh and
modern, binding him to France and the French Emperor, the pretension was set up that his occupation
of the Spanish throne would put in peril the interests and the honor of France.

BECAUSE FRANCE WAS READY.

In sending defiance to Prussia on this question, the French Cabinet selected their own ground.
Evidently a war had been meditated, and the candidature of Prince Leopold from beginning to
end supplied a pretext. In this conclusion, which is too obvious, we are hardly left to inference.
The secret was disclosed by Rouher, President of the Senate, lately the eloquent and unscrupulous
Minister, when, in an official address to the Emperor, immediately after the War Manifesto
read by the Prime- Minister, he declared that France quivered with indignation at the flights
of an ambition over-excited by the one day's good-fortune at Sadowa, and then proceeded:---

"Animated by that calm perseverance which is true force, your Majesty has known how to wait;
but in the last four years you have carried to its highest perfection the arming of our soldiers,
and raised to its full power the organization of our military forces. Thanks to your care,
Sire, France is ready," [Footnote: Address at the Palais de Saint-Cloud, July 50, 1870: Journal
Officiel du Soir, 18 Juillet 1870.]

Thus, according to the President of the Senate, France, after waiting, commenced war because
she was ready,--- while, according to the Cabinet, it was on the point of honor. Both were
right. The war was declared because the Emperor thought himself ready, and a pretext was found
in the affair of the telegram.

Considering the age, and the present demands of civilization, such a war stands forth terrific
in wrong, making the soul rise indignant against it. One reason avowed is brutal; the other
is frivolous; both are criminal. If we look into the text of the Manifesto and the speeches
of the Cabinet, it is a war founded on a trifle, on a straw, on an egg-shell. Obviously these
were pretexts only. Therefore it is a war of pretexts, the real object being the humiliation
and dismemberment of Germany, in the vain hope of exalting the French Empire and perpetuating
a bawble crown on the head of a boy. By military success and a peace dictated at Berlin, the
Emperor trusted to find himself in such condition, that, on return to Paris, he could overthrow
parliamentary government so far as it existed there, and reestablish personal government, where
all depended upon himself,--thus making triumph over Germany the means of another triumph over
the French people.

In other times there have been wars as criminal in origin, where trifle, straw, or egg-shell
played its part; but they contrasted less with the surrounding civilization. To this list belong
the frequent Dynastic Wars, prompted by the interest, the passion, or the whim of some one
in the Family of Kings. Others have begun in recklessness kindred to that we now witness,---as
when England entered into war with Holland, and for reason did not hesitate to allege "abusive
pictures."[Footnote: Humo, History of England, Ch. LXV., March 17, 1672.----The terras of the
Declaration on this point were,----"Scarce a town within their territories that is not filled
with abusive pictures." (Hansard's Parliamentary History, Vol. History of England, Vol. IX.
Ch. III., June 13, 1667.]. The England of Charles the Second was hardly less sensitive than
the France of Louis Napoleon, while in each was similar indifference to consequences. But France
has precedents of her own. From the remarkable correspondence of the Princess Palatine, Duchess
of Orleans, we learn that the first war with Holland under Louis the Fourteenth was brought
on by the Minister, De Lionne, to injure a petty German prince who had made him jealous of
his wife.[Footnote: Briefe der Prinzessin Elisabeth Charlotte von Orleans an die Gaugraefin
Louise, 1676-1722, herausg. von W. Menzel, (Stuttgart, 1843,)---Paris, 3) Mertz, 1718, s. 288.]
The communicative and exuberant Saint-Simon tells us twice over how Louvois, another Minister
of Louis the Fourteenth, being overruled by his master with regard to the dimensions of a window
at Versailles, was filled with the idea that "on account of a few inches in a window," as he
expressed it, all his services would be forgotten, and therefore, to save his place, excited
a foreign war that would make him necessary to the King. The flames in the Palatinate, devouring
the works of man, attested his continuing power. The war became general, but, according to
the chronicler, it ruined France at home, and did not extend her domain abroad. [Footnote:
Memoires, (Paris, 1829,) Tom. VII. pp. 49-51; XIII pp. 9-10.] The French Emperor confidently
expected to occupy the same historic region so often burnt and ravaged by French armies, with
that castle of Heidelberg which repeats the tale of blood,--and, let me say, expected it for
no better reason than that of his royal predecessor, stimulated by an unprincipled Minister
anxious for personal position. The parallel is continued in the curse which the Imperial arms
have brought on France.

PROGRESS OF THE WAR.

How this war proceeded I need not recount. You have all read the record day by day, sorrowing
for Humanity,--how, after briefest interval of preparation or hesitation, the two combatants
first crossed swords at Saarbruecken, within the German frontier, and the young Prince Imperial
performed his part in picking up a bullet from the field, which the Emperor promptly reported
by telegraph to the Empress,--how this little military success is all that was vouchsafed to
the man who began the war,--how soon thereafter victory followed, first on the hill-sides of
Wissembourg and then of Woerth, shattering the army of MacMahon, to which the Empire was looking
so confidently,--how another large army under Bazaine was driven within the strong fortress
of Metz,--how all the fortresses, bristling with guns and frowning upon Germany, were invested,--how
battle followed battle on various fields, where Death was the great conqueror,--how, with help
of modern art, war showed itself to be murder by machinery,--how MacMahon, gathering together
his scattered men and strengthening them with reinforcements,  attempted to relieve Bazaine,--how
at last, after long marches,  his large army found itself shut up at Sedan with a tempest 
of fire beating upon its huddled ranks, so that its only safety was capitulation,--how with
the capitulation of the army was the submission of the Emperor himself, who gave his sword
to the King of Prussia and became prisoner of war,--and how, on the reception of this news
at Paris, Louis Napoleon and his dynasty were divested of their powers and the Empire was lost
in the Republic. These things you know. I need not dwell on them. Not to battles and their
fearful vicissitudes, where all is incarnadined with blood, must we look, but to the ideas
which prevail,--as for the measure of time we look, not to the pendulum in its oscillations,
but to the clock in the tower, whose striking tells the hours. A great hour for Humanity sounded
when the Republic was proclaimed. And this I say, even should it fail again; for every attempt
contributes to the final triumph.

A WAR OF SURPRISES.

The war, from the pretext at its beginning to the capitulation at Sedan, has been a succession
of surprises, where the author of the pretext was a constant sufferer. Nor is this strange.
Falstaff says, with humorous point, "See now how wit may be made a Jack-a- lent, when't is
upon ill employment!"[Footnote: Merry Wives of Windsor, Act V. Sc. 5.]--and another character,
in a play of Beaumont and Fletcher, reveals the same evil destiny in stronger terms, when he
says,--

"Hell gives us art to reach the depth of sin, But leaves us wretched fools, when we are in."
[Footnote: Queen of Corinth, Act IV. Sc. 3.]

