Copyright, 1864, 1892, 1896,
  By HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

  Copyright, 1896,
  By HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & CO.

  All rights reserved.

  The Riverside Press, Cambridge, Mass., U. S. A.
  Electrotyped and Printed by H. O. Houghton & Co.

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE

  INTRODUCTORY NOTE                                                vii

  HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS
     I. The Ravages of a Carpet                                      1
    II. Homekeeping vs. Housekeeping                                16
   III. What is a Home?                                             33
    IV. The Economy of the Beautiful                                54
     V. Raking Up the Fire                                          69
    VI. The Lady who does her own Work                              85
   VII. What can be got in America                                 101
  VIII. Economy                                                    112
    IX. Servants                                                   133
     X. Cookery                                                    153
    XI. Our House                                                  182
   XII. Home Religion                                              212

  THE CHIMNEY-CORNER
     I. What will You do with Her? or, The Woman Question          231
    II. Woman's Sphere                                             249
   III. A Family Talk on Reconstruction                            274
    IV. Is Woman a Worker?                                         300
     V. The Transition                                             316
    VI. Bodily Religion: A Sermon on Good Health                   330
   VII. How shall we entertain our Company?                        347
  VIII. How shall we be Amused?                                    362
    IX. Dress, or Who makes the Fashions                           374
     X. What are the Sources of Beauty in Dress?                   395
    XI. The Cathedral                                              412
   XII. The New Year                                               425
  XIII. The Noble Army of Martyrs                                  438

  OUR SECOND GIRL                                                  449

  A SCHOLAR'S ADVENTURES IN THE COUNTRY                            473

  TRIALS OF A HOUSEKEEPER                                          487

The frontispiece is from a photograph of Mrs. Stowe taken in 1884. The vignette of Mrs. Stowe's
later Hartford home is from a drawing by Charles Copeland.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Mrs. Stowe had early and very practical acquaintance with the art of housekeeping. It strikes
one at first as a little incongruous that an author who devoted her great powers to stirring
the conscience of a nation should from time to time, and at one period especially, give her
mind to the ordering of family life, but a moment's consideration will show that the same woman
was earnestly at the bottom of each effort. In a letter to the late Lord Denman, written in
1853, Mrs. Stowe, speaking of Uncle Tom's Cabin, said: "I wrote what I did because, as a woman,
as a mother, I was oppressed and heartbroken with the sorrows and injustice which I saw, and
because, as a Christian, I felt the dishonor to Christianity." Not under the stress of passionate
emotion, yet largely from a sense of real responsibility as a woman, a mother, and a Christian,
she occupied herself with those concerns of every-day life which so distinctly appeal to a
woman's mind. How to order a household, how to administer that little kingdom over which a
woman rules, and, above all, how to make family life stable, pure, and conservative of the
highest happiness, these were the questions which she asked herself constantly, and which she
tried to solve, not only incidentally in her fiction, but directly in her essays, and in that
field of one tenth fiction and nine tenths didacticism, which constitutes most of the present
volume.

A Scholar's Adventures in the Country and Trials of a Housekeeper appeared in the miscellany
to which she gave the name of The Mayflower, and reflect humorously the Cincinnati experiences
which again are playfully recounted in letters published in her son's Life. The former, contributed
in 1850 to The National Era, was drawn pretty closely from the experiments of Professor Stowe.
It is noticeable that in this paper and in Our Second Girl, which was contributed to The Atlantic
Monthly for January, 1868, the author poses as the masculine member of the household, as if
this assumption gave her some advantage in the point of view. At any rate, she adopted the
same rôle when she came more deliberately to survey a wide field in a series of articles.

The House and Home Papers were contributed first to The Atlantic Monthly, and afterward published
in book form as the production of one Christopher Crowfield, though there was not the slightest
attempt otherwise at disguising the authorship. The immediate occasion of the papers was no
doubt the removal of the Stowes from Andover and their establishment in Hartford, an event
which took place shortly before the papers began to appear in The Atlantic. The years which
followed during the first Hartford residence saw also a marriage in the family and new problems
of daily life constantly presenting themselves, so that a similar series appeared in the same
magazine, purporting to be from the same householder, entitled The Chimney Corner. This series,
indeed, entered rather more seriously into questions of social morality, and deepened in feeling
as it proceeded. The eleventh section is a warm appreciation of the woman who figured so largely
in Mrs. Stowe's early life, and the last two papers rose, as the reader will see, to the height
of national memories. Mrs. Fields has preserved for us, in her Days with Mrs. Stowe, a striking
record of the mingling of the great and the near in this writer's mind. The period of which
she writes is that in which The Chimney Corner series was drawing to a close:--

"In the autumn of 1864 she wrote: 'I feel I need to write in these days, to keep me from thinking
of things that make me dizzy and blind, and fill my eyes with tears, so that I cannot see the
paper. I mean such things as are being done where our heroes are dying as Shaw died. It is
not wise that all our literature should run in a rut cut through our hearts and red with our
blood. I feel the need of a little gentle household merriment and talk of common things, to
indulge which I have devised the following.'

"Notwithstanding her view of the need, and her skillfully devised plans to meet it, she soon
sent another epistle, showing how impossible it was to stem the current of her thought:--

  "'November 29, 1864.

  "'MY DEAR FRIEND,--

  "'I have sent my New Year's article, the result of one of those
  peculiar experiences which sometimes occur to us writers. I had
  planned an article, gay, sprightly, wholly domestic; but as I
  began and sketched the pleasant home and quiet fireside, an
  irresistible impulse wrote for me what followed,--an offering of
  sympathy to the suffering and agonized, whose homes have forever
  been darkened. Many causes united at once to force on me this
  vision, from which generally I shrink, but which sometimes will
  not be denied,--will make itself felt.

  "'Just before I went to New York two of my earliest and
  most intimate friends lost their oldest sons, captains and
  majors,--splendid fellows physically and morally, beautiful,
  brave, religious, uniting the courage of soldiers to the
  faith of martyrs,--and when I went to Brooklyn it seemed as
  if I were hearing some such thing almost every day; and
  Henry, in his profession as minister, has so many letters
  full of imploring anguish, the cry of hearts breaking that ask
  help of him.'"...

HOUSEHOLD PAPERS AND STORIES

HOUSE AND HOME PAPERS

I

THE RAVAGES OF A CARPET

"My dear, it's so cheap!"

These words were spoken by my wife, as she sat gracefully on a roll of Brussels carpet which
was spread out in flowery lengths on the floor of Messrs. Ketchem & Co.

"It's so cheap!"

Milton says that the love of fame is the last infirmity of noble minds. I think he had not
rightly considered the subject. I believe that last infirmity is the love of getting things
cheap! Understand me, now. I don't mean the love of getting cheap things, by which one understands
showy, trashy, ill-made, spurious articles, bearing certain apparent resemblances to better
things. All really sensible people are quite superior to that sort of cheapness. But those
fortunate accidents, which put within the power of a man things really good and valuable for
half or a third of their value, what mortal virtue and resolution can withstand? My friend
Brown has a genuine Murillo, the joy of his heart and the light of his eyes, but he never fails
to tell you, as its crowning merit, how he bought it in South America for just nothing,--how
it hung smoky and deserted in the back of a counting-room, and was thrown in as a makeweight
to bind a bargain, and, upon being cleaned turned out a genuine Murillo; and then he takes
out his cigar, and calls your attention to the points in it; he adjusts the curtain to let
the sunlight fall just in the right spot; he takes you to this and the other point of view;
and all this time you must confess that, in your mind as well as his, the consideration that
he got all this beauty for ten dollars adds lustre to the painting. Brown has paintings there
for which he paid his thousands, and, being well advised, they are worth the thousands he paid;
but this ewe lamb that he got for nothing always gives him a secret exaltation in his own eyes.
He seems to have credited to himself personally merit to the amount of what he should have
paid for the picture. Then there is Mrs. Croesus, at the party yesterday evening, expatiating
to my wife on the surprising cheapness of her point-lace set. "Got for just nothing at all,
my dear!" and a circle of admiring listeners echoes the sound. "Did you ever hear anything
like it? I never heard of such a thing in my life;" and away sails Mrs. Croesus as if she had
a collar composed of all the cardinal virtues. In fact, she is buoyed up with a secret sense
of merit, so that her satin slippers scarcely touch the carpet. Even I myself am fond of showing
a first edition of "Paradise Lost" for which I gave a shilling in a London bookstall, and stating
that I would not take a hundred dollars for it. Even I must confess there are points on which
I am mortal.

But all this while my wife sits on her roll of carpet, looking into my face for approbation,
and Marianne and Jenny are pouring into my ear a running fire of "How sweet! How lovely! Just
like that one of Mrs. Tweedleum's!"

"And she gave two dollars and seventy-five cents a yard for hers, and this is"--

My wife here put her hand to her mouth and pronounced the incredible sum in a whisper, with
a species of sacred awe, common, as I have observed, to females in such interesting crises.
In fact Mr. Ketchem, standing smiling and amiable by, remarked to me that really he hoped Mrs.
Crowfield would not name generally what she gave for the article, for positively it was so
far below the usual rate of prices that he might give offense to other customers; but this
was the very last of the pattern, and they were anxious to close off the old stock, and we
had always traded with them, and he had a great respect for my wife's father, who had always
traded with their firm, and so, when there were any little bargains to be thrown in any one's
way, why, he naturally, of course--And here Mr. Ketchem bowed gracefully over the yardstick
to my wife, and I consented.

Yes, I consented; but whenever I think of myself at that moment, I always am reminded, in a
small way, of Adam taking the apple; and my wife, seated on that roll of carpet, has more than
once suggested to my mind the classic image of Pandora opening her unlucky box. In fact, from
the moment I had blandly assented to Mr. Ketchem's remarks, and said to my wife, with a gentle
air of dignity, "Well, my dear, since it suits you, I think you had better take it," there
came a load on my prophetic soul which not all the fluttering and chattering of my delighted
girls and the more placid complacency of my wife could entirely dissipate. I presaged I know
not what of coming woe, and all I presaged came to pass.

In order to know just what came to pass, I must give you a view of the house and home into
which this carpet was introduced.

My wife and I were somewhat advanced housekeepers, and our dwelling was first furnished by
her father, in the old-fashioned jog-trot days when furniture was made with a view to its lasting
from generation to generation. Everything was strong and comfortable,--heavy mahogany, guiltless
of the modern device of veneering, and hewed out with a square solidity which had not an idea
of change. It was, so to speak, a sort of granite foundation of the household structure. Then
we commenced housekeeping with the full idea that our house was a thing to be lived in, and
that furniture was made to be used. That most sensible of women, Mrs. Crowfield, agreed fully
with me that in our house there was to be nothing too good for ourselves,--no room shut up
in holiday attire to be enjoyed by strangers for three or four days in the year, while we lived
in holes and corners; no best parlor from which we were to be excluded; no silver plate to
be kept in the safe in the bank, and brought home only in case of a grand festival, while our
daily meals were served with dingy Britannia. "Strike a broad, plain average," I said to my
wife; "have everything abundant, serviceable, and give all our friends exactly what we have
ourselves, no better and no worse;" and my wife smiled approval on my sentiment.

Smile? she did more than smile. My wife resembles one of those convex mirrors I have sometimes
seen. Every idea I threw out, plain and simple, she reflected back upon me in a thousand little
glitters and twinkles of her own; she made my crude conceptions come back to me in such perfectly
dazzling performances that I hardly recognized them. My mind warms up when I think what a home
that woman made of our house from the very first day she moved into it. The great, large, airy
parlor, with its ample bow-window, when she had arranged it, seemed a perfect trap to catch
sunbeams. There was none of that discouraging trimness and newness that often repel a man's
bachelor friends after the first call, and make them feel, "Oh, well, one cannot go in at Crowfield's
now, unless one is dressed; one might put them out." The first thing our parlor said to any
one was, that we were not people to be put out, that we were widespread, easy-going, and jolly
folk. Even if Tom Brown brought in Ponto and his shooting-bag, there was nothing in that parlor
to strike terror into man and dog; for it was written on the face of things that everybody
there was to do just as he or she pleased. There were my books and my writing-table spread
out with all its miscellaneous confusion of papers on one side of the fireplace, and there
were my wife's great, ample sofa and work-table on the other; there I wrote my articles for
the "North American;" and there she turned and ripped and altered her dresses; and there lay
crochet and knitting and embroidery side by side with a weekly basket of family mending, and
in neighborly contiguity with the last book of the season, which my wife turned over as she
took her after-dinner lounge on the sofa. And in the bow-window were canaries always singing,
and a great stand of plants always fresh and blooming, and ivy which grew and clambered and
twined about the pictures. Best of all, there was in our parlor that household altar, the blazing
wood fire, whose wholesome, hearty crackle is the truest household inspiration. I quite agree
with one celebrated American author who holds that an open fireplace is an altar of patriotism.
Would our Revolutionary fathers have gone barefooted and bleeding over snows to defend air-tight
stoves and cooking-ranges? I trow not. It was the memory of the great open kitchen-fire, with
its back log and fore stick of cord-wood, its roaring, hilarious voice of invitation, its dancing
tongues of flame, that called to them through the snows of that dreadful winter to keep up
their courage, that made their hearts warm and bright with a thousand reflected memories. Our
neighbors said that it was delightful to sit by our fire,--but then, for their part, they could
not afford it, wood was so ruinously dear, and all that. Most of these people could not, for
the simple reason that they felt compelled, in order to maintain the family dignity, to keep
up a parlor with great pomp and circumstance of upholstery, where they sat only on dress occasions,
and of course the wood fire was out of the question.

When children began to make their appearance in our establishment, my wife, like a well-conducted
housekeeper, had the best of nursery arrangements,--a room all warmed, lighted, and ventilated,
and abounding in every proper resource of amusement to the rising race; but it was astonishing
to see how, notwithstanding this, the centripetal attraction drew every pair of little pattering
feet to our parlor.

"My dear, why don't you take your blocks upstairs?"

"I want to be where oo are," said with a piteous under lip, was generally a most convincing answer.

Then, the small people could not be disabused of the idea that certain chief treasures of their
own would be safer under papa's writing-table or mamma's sofa than in the safest closet of
their domains. My writing-table was dockyard for Arthur's new ship, and stable for little Tom's
pepper-and-salt-colored pony, and carriage-house for Charley's new wagon, while whole armies
of paper dolls kept house in the recess behind mamma's sofa.

And then, in due time, came the tribe of pets who followed the little ones and rejoiced in
the blaze of the firelight. The boys had a splendid Newfoundland, which, knowing our weakness,
we warned them with awful gravity was never to be a parlor dog; but somehow, what with little
beggings and pleadings on the part of Arthur and Tom, and the piteous melancholy with which
Rover would look through the window-panes when shut out from the blazing warmth into the dark,
cold veranda, it at last came to pass that Rover gained a regular corner at the hearth, a regular
status in every family convocation. And then came a little black-and-tan English terrier for
the girls; and then a fleecy poodle, who established himself on the corner of my wife's sofa;
and for each of these some little voice pleaded, and some little heart would be so near broken
at any slight that my wife and I resigned ourselves to live in a menagerie, the more so as
we were obliged to confess a lurking weakness towards these four-footed children ourselves.

So we grew and flourished together,--children, dogs, birds, flowers, and all; and although
my wife often, in paroxysms of housewifeliness to which the best of women are subject, would
declare that we never were fit to be seen, yet I comforted her with the reflection that there
were few people whose friends seemed to consider them better worth seeing, judging by the stream
of visitors and loungers which was always setting towards our parlor. People seemed to find
it good to be there; they said it was somehow home-like and pleasant, and that there was a
kind of charm about it that made it easy to talk and easy to live; and as my girls and boys
grew up, there seemed always to be some merry doing or other going on there. Arty and Tom brought
home their college friends, who straightway took root there and seemed to fancy themselves
a part of us. We had no reception-rooms apart, where the girls were to receive young gentlemen;
all the courting and flirting that were to be done had for their arena the ample variety of
surface presented by our parlor, which, with sofas and screens and lounges and recesses, and
writing and work tables, disposed here and there, and the genuine laisser aller of the whole
mènage, seemed, on the whole, to have offered ample advantages enough; for at the time I write
of, two daughters were already established in marriage, while my youngest was busy, as yet,
in performing that little domestic ballet of the cat with the mouse, in the case of a most
submissive youth of the neighborhood.

All this time our parlor furniture, though of that granitic formation I have indicated, began
to show marks of that decay to which things sublunary are liable. I cannot say that I dislike
this look in a room. Take a fine, ample, hospitable apartment, where all things, freely and
generously used, softly and indefinably grow old together, there is a sort of mellow tone and
keeping which pleases my eye. What if the seams of the great inviting armchair, where so many
friends have sat and lounged, do grow white? What, in fact, if some easy couch has an undeniable
hole worn in its friendly cover? I regard with tenderness even these mortal weaknesses of these
servants and witnesses of our good times and social fellowship. No vulgar touch wore them;
they may be called, rather, the marks and indentations which the glittering in and out of the
tide of social happiness has worn in the rocks of our strand. I would no more disturb the gradual
toning-down and aging of a well-used set of furniture by smart improvements than I would have
a modern dauber paint in emendations in a fine old picture.

So we men reason, but women do not always think as we do. There is a virulent demon of housekeeping
not wholly cast out in the best of them, and which often breaks out in unguarded moments. In
fact Miss Marianne, being on the lookout for furniture wherewith to begin a new establishment,
and Jenny, who had accompanied her in her peregrinations, had more than once thrown out little
disparaging remarks on the time-worn appearance of our establishment, suggesting comparison
with those of more modern furnished rooms.

"It is positively scandalous, the way our furniture looks," I one day heard one of them declaring
to her mother; "and this old rag of a carpet!"

My feelings were hurt, not the less so that I knew that the large cloth which covered the middle
of the floor, and which the women call a bocking, had been bought and nailed down there, after
a solemn family council, as the best means of concealing the too evident darns which years
of good cheer had made needful in our stanch old household friend, the three-ply carpet, made
in those days when to be a three-ply was a pledge of continuance and service.

Well, it was a joyous and bustling day when, after one of those domestic whirlwinds which the
women are fond of denominating house-cleaning, the new Brussels carpet was at length brought
in and nailed down, and its beauty praised from mouth to mouth. Our old friends called in and
admired, and all seemed to be well, except that I had that light and delicate presage of changes
to come which indefinitely brooded over me.

