[Footnote 195: I have not seen Professor Cornu's paper itself, but only a notice of it by M.
G. Paris in Romania, xxii. 153, and some additional annotations by the Professor himself at
p. 531 of the same volume.]

[Sidenote: Irregularity of line.]

For there is no question but that at first sight, and not at first sight only, the Poema del
Cid seems to be the most irregular production of its kind that can claim high rank in the poetry
of Europe. It is not merely that it is "rough," as its great northern congener the Nibelungenlied
is usually said to be, or that its lines vary in length from ten syllables to over twenty,
as some lines of Anglo-Saxon verse do. It is that there is nothing like the regular cadence
of the one, or (at least as yet discovered) the combined system of accent and alliteration
which accounts for the other. Almost the only single feature which is invariable is the break
in the middle of the line, which is much more than a mere cæsura, and coincides not merely
with the end of a word, but with a distinct stop or at least pause in sense. Beyond this, except
by the rather violent hypothesis of copyist misdeeds above referred to,[196] nobody has been
able to get further in a generalisation of the metre than that the normal form is an eight
and six (better a seven and seven) "fourteener," trochaically cadenced, but admitting contraction
and extension with a liberality elsewhere unparalleled.

[Footnote 196: It is perhaps fair to Professor Cornu to admit some weight in his argument that
where proper names predominate--i.e., where the copyist was least likely to alter--his basis
suggests itself most easily.]

And the ends of the verses are as troublesome as their bodies. Not only is there no absolute
system either of assonance or of rhyme; not only does the consideration that at a certain stage
assonance and consonance[197] meet and blend help us little; but it is almost or quite impossible
to discern any one system on which the one or the other, or both, can be thought to have been
used. Sometimes, indeed frequently, something like the French laisses or continuous blocks
of end-sound appear: sometimes the eye feels inclined to see quatrains--a form, as we shall
see, agreeable to early Spain, and very common in all European nations at this stage of their
development. But it is very seldom that either is clearly demonstrable except in parts, while
neither maintains itself for long. Generally the pages present the spectacle of an intensely
irregular mosaic, or rather conglomerate, of small blocks of assonance or consonance put together
on no discoverable system whatever. It is, of course, fair to remember that Anglo-Saxon verse--now,
according to the orthodox, to be ranked among the strictest prosodic kinds--was long thought
to be as formless as this. But after the thorough ransacking and overhauling which almost all
mediæval literature has had during the last century, it is certainly strange that the underlying
system in the Spanish case, if it exists, should not have been discovered, or should have been
discovered only by such an Alexandrine cutting of the knot as the supposition that the copyist
has made "pie" of about seventy per cent at least of the whole.

[Footnote 197: Some writers very inconveniently, and by a false transference from "consonant,"
use "consonance" as if equivalent to "alliteration." It is much better kept for full rhyme,
in which vowels and consonants both "sound with" each other.]

Still the form, puzzling as it is, is extremely interesting, and very satisfactory to those
who can be content with unsystematic enjoyment. The recurrent wave-sound which has been noted
in the chansons is at least as noticeable, though less regular, here. Let us, for instance,
open the poem in the double-columned edition of 1842 at random, and take the passage on the
opening, pp. 66, 67, giving the best part of two hundred lines, from 3491 to 3641. The eye
is first struck with the constant repetition of catch-endings--"Infantes de Carrion," "los
del Campeador"--each of which occurs at a line-end some dozen times in the two pages. The second
and still more striking thing is that almost all this long stretch of verse, though not in
one single laisse, is carried upon an assonance in o, either plump (Infanzon, cort, Carrion,
&c.), which continues with a break or two for at least fifty lines, or with another vowel in
double assonance (taiadores, tendones, varones). But this sequence is broken incomprehensibly
by such end-words as tomar; and the length of the lines defies all classification, though one
suspects some confusion of arrangement. For instance, it is not clear why

    "Colada e Tizon que non lidiasen con ellas los del Campeador"

should be printed as one line, and

    "Hybalos ver el Rey Alfonso.
    Dixieron los del Campeador,"

as two.

If we then turn to the earlier part, that which comes before the Carrion story, we shall find
the irregularity greater still. It is possible, no doubt, by making rules sufficiently elastic,
to devise some sort of a system for five consecutive lines which end folgar, comer, acordar,
grandes, and pan; but it will be a system so exceedingly elastic that it seems a superfluity
of trouble to make it. On a general survey it may, I think, be said that either in double or
single assonance a and o play a much larger part than the other vowels, whereas in the French
analogues there is no predominance of this kind, or at least nothing like so much. And lastly,
to conclude[198] these rather desultory remarks on a subject which deserves much more attention
than it has yet had, it may be worth observing that by an odd coincidence the Poema del Cid
concludes with a delusive personal mention very similar to, though even more precise than,
that about "Turoldus" in the Chanson de Roland. For it ends--

    "Per Abbat le escribio en el mes de maio
    En era de mill e CC ... XLV. años,"

there being, perhaps, something dropped between the second C and the X. Peter Abbat, however,
has been less fortunate than Turoldus, in that no one, it seems, has asserted his authorship,
though he may have been the copyist-malefactor of theory. And it may perhaps be added that
if MCCXLV. is the correct date, this would correspond to 1207 of our chronology, the Spanish
mediæval era starting thirty-eight years too early.

[Footnote 198: I have not thought it necessary to give an abstract of the contents of the poem,
because Southey's Chronicle of the Cid is accessible to everybody, and because no wise man
will ever attempt to do over again what Southey has once done.]

[Sidenote: Other poems.]

The remaining literature before the end of the thirteenth century (immediately after that date
there is a good deal, but most of it is imitated from France) may be dismissed more briefly.
It is not very bulky, but it is noteworthy that it is collected in a manner by no means usual
at the time, under two known names, those of Gonzalo Berceo, priest of St Elianus at Callahorra,
and of King Alfonso X. For the Spanish Alexander of Juan Lorenzo Segura, though written before
1300, is clearly but one of the numerous family of the French and French-Latin Alexandreids
and Romans d'Alixandre. And certain poems on Apollonius of Tyre, St Mary of Egypt, and the
Three Kings, while their date is rather uncertain, are also evidently "school poems" of the
same kind.

[Sidenote: Apollonius and Mary of Egypt.]

The Spanish Apollonius,[199] however, is noteworthy, because it is written in a form which
is also used by Berceo, and which has sometimes been thought to be spoken of in the poem itself
as nueva maestria. This measure is the old fourteener, which struggles to appear in the Cid,
regularly divided into hephthemimers, and now regularly arranged also in mono-rhymed quatrains.
The "Life of St Mary of Egypt,"[200] on the other hand, is in octosyllabic couplets, treated
with the same freedom that we find in contemporary German handlings of that metre, and varying
from five syllables to at least eleven. The rhymes are good, with very rare lapses into assonance;
one might suspect a pretty close adherence to a probably Provençal original, and perhaps not
a very early date. Ticknor, whose Protestantism or whose prudery seems to have been shocked
by this "coarse and indecent history"--he might surely have found politer language for a variant
of the Magdalene story, which is beautiful in itself and has received especial ornament from
art--thought it composed of "meagre monkish verse," and "hardly of importance" except as a
monument of language. I should myself venture--with infinitely less competence in the particular
language, but some knowledge of other things of the same kind and time--to call it a rather
lively and accomplished performance of its class. The third piece[201] of those published,
not by Sanchez himself, but as an appendix to the Paris edition, is the Adoracion de Los Santos
Reyes, a poem shorter than the Santa Maria Egipciaca, but very similar in manner as well as
in subject. I observe that Ticknor, in a note, seems himself to be of the opinion that these
two pieces are not so old as the Apollonius; though his remarks about "the French fabliaux"
are not to the point. The fabliaux, it is true, are in octosyllabic verse; but octosyllabic
verse is certainly older than the fabliaux, which have nothing to do with the Lives of the
Saints. But he could hardly have known this when he wrote.

[Footnote 199: Sanchez-Ochoa, op. cit., pp. 525-561.]

[Footnote 200: Ibid., pp. 561-576.]

[Footnote 201: Sanchez-Ochoa, op. cit., pp. 577-579.]

[Sidenote: Berceo.]

Berceo, who appears to have written more than thirteen thousand lines, wrote nothing secular;
and though the religious poetry of the Middle Ages is occasionally of the highest order, yet
when it is of that rank it is almost invariably Latin, not vernacular, while its vernacular
expression, even where not despicable, is apt to be very much of a piece, and to present very
few features of literary as distinguished from philological interest. Historians have, however,
very properly noted in him the occurrence of a short lyrical fragment in irregular octosyllabics,
each rhymed in couplets and interspersed after every line with a refrain. The only certain
fact of his life seems to be his ordination as deacon in 1221.

[Sidenote: Alfonso el Sabio.]

Of King Alfonso the Learned (for he does not seem to have been by any means very wise) much
more is of course known, though the saying about the blessedness of having no history is not
falsified in his case. But his titular enjoyment of the empire, his difficulties with his sons,
his death, practically dethroned, and the rest, do not concern us: nor does even his famous
and rather wickedly wrested saying (a favourite with Carlyle) about the creation of the world
and the possibility of improvement therein had the Creator taken advice. Even the far more
deservedly famous Siete Partidas, with that Fuero Juzgo in which, though it was issued in his
father's time, he is supposed to have had a hand, are merely noteworthy here as early, curious,
and, especially in the case of the Partidas, excellent specimens of Spanish prose in its earliest
form. He could not have executed these or any great part of them himself: and the great bulk
of the other work attributed to him must also have been really that of collaborators or secretaries.
The verse part of this is not extensive, consisting of a collection of Cantigas or hymns, Provençal
in style and (to the puzzlement of historians) Galician rather than Castilian in dialect, and
an alchemical medley of verse and prose called the Tesoro. These, if they be his, he may have
written for himself and by himself. But for his Astronomical Tables, a not unimportant point
de repère in astronomical history, he must, as for the legal works already mentioned and others,
have been largely indebted. There seems to be much doubt about a prose Trésor, which is or
is not a translation of the famous work of Brunetto Latini (dates would here seem awkward).
But the Cronica General de España, the Spanish Bible, the Universal History, and the Gran Conquesta
de Ultramar (this last a History of the Crusades, based partly on William of Tyre, partly on
the chanson cycle of the Crusades, fables and all) must necessarily be his only in the sense
that he very likely commissioned, and not improbably assisted in them. The width and variety
of the attributions, whether contestable in parts or not, prove quite sufficiently for our
purpose this fact, that by his time (he died in 1284) literature of nearly all kinds was being
pretty busily cultivated in the Spanish vernaculars, though in this case as in others it might
chiefly occupy itself with translations or adaptations of Latin or of French.

This fact in general, and the capital and interesting phenomenon of the Poema del Cid in particular,
are the noticeable points in this division of our subject. It will be observed that Spain is
at this time content, like Goethe's scholar, sich üben. Her one great literary achievement--admirable
in some respects, incomparable in itself--is not a novelty in kind; she has no lessons in form
to give, which, like some of Italy's, have not been improved upon to this day; she cannot,
like Germany, boast a great quantity of work of equal accomplishment and inspiration; least
of all has she the astonishing fertility and the unceasing maestria of France. But she has
practice and promise, she is doing something more than "going to begin," and her one great
achievement has (it cannot well be too often repeated) the inestimable and unmistakable quality
of being itself and not something else, in spirit if not in scheme, in character if not quite
in form. It would be no consolation for the loss of the Cid that we have Beowulf and Roland
and the Nibelungen--they would not fill its place, they do not speak with its voice. The much-abused
and nearly meaningless adjective "Homeric" is here, in so far as it has any meaning, once more
appropriate. Of the form of Homer there is little: of the vigour, the freshness, the poetry,
there is much.

CHAPTER X.

CONCLUSION.

It is now time to sum up, as may best be done, the results of this attempt to survey the Literature
of Europe during one, if not of its most accomplished, most enlightened, or most generally
admired periods, yet assuredly one of the most momentous, the most interesting, the fullest
of problem and of promise. Audacious as the attempt itself may seem to some, inadequate as
the performance may be pronounced by others, it is needless to spend much more argument in
urging its claim to be at least tried on the merits. All varieties of literary history have
drawbacks almost inseparable from their schemes. The elaborate monograph, which is somewhat
in favour just now, is exposed to the criticism, not quite carping, that it is practically
useless without independent study of its subject, and practically superfluous with it. The
history of separate literatures, whether in portion or in whole, is always liable to be charged
with omissions or with disproportionate treatment within its subject, with want of perspective,
with "blinking," as regards matters without. And so such a survey as this is liable to the
charge of being superficial, or of attempting more than it can possibly cover, or of not keeping
the due balance between its various provinces and compartments.

It must be for others to say how such a charge, in the present case, is helped by laches or
incompetence on the part of the surveyor. But enough has, I hope, been said to clear the scheme
itself from the objection of uselessness or of impracticability. In one sense, no doubt, far
more room than this volume, or a much larger, could provide, may seem to be required for the
discussion and arrangement of so great and interesting a matter as the Literature of the Twelfth
and Thirteenth Centuries. But to say this, is only saying that no such account in such a space
could be exhaustive: and it so happens that an exhaustive account is for the purpose not required--would
indeed go pretty far towards the defeat of that purpose. What is wanted is to secure that the
reader, whether he pursues his studies in more detail with regard to any of these literatures
or not, shall at any rate have in his head a fair general notion of what they were simultaneously
or in succession, of the relation in which they stood to each other, of the division of literary
labour between them.

If, on the other hand, it be said, "You propose to give, according to your scheme, a volume
apiece to the fourteenth and even the fifteenth centuries, the work of which was far less original
and interesting than the work of these two! Why do you couple these?" the answer is not difficult.
In the first place, the work of these two centuries--which is mainly though not wholly the
work of the hundred years that form their centre period--is curiously inseparable. In only
a few cases do we know precise dates, and in many the circa is of such a circuitous character
that we can hardly tell whether the twelfth or the thirteenth century deserves the credit.
In almost all the adoption of any intermediate date of severance would leave an awkward, raw,
unreal division. We should leave off while the best of the chansons de geste were still being
produced, in the very middle of the development of the Arthurian legend, with half the fabliaux
yet to come and half the sagas unwritten, with the Minnesingers in full voice, with the tale
of the Rose half told, with the Fox not yet broken up.

And, in the second place, the singular combination of anonymity and school-character in the
most characteristic mediæval literature makes it easier, vast as is its mass and in some cases
conspicuous as is its merit, to handle in small space than later work. Only by a wild indulgence
in guessing or a tedious minuteness of attention to Lautlehre and rhyme-lists is it possible
to make a treatment of even a named person like Chrestien de Troyes on the scale of a notice
of Dante or even Froissart, and this without reference to the comparative literary importance
of the three. The million lines of the chansons de geste do not demand discussion in anything
like direct proportion to their bulk. One fabliau, much more one minnesong or troubadour lyric,
has a far greater resemblance of kind to its fellows than even one modern novel, even one nineteenth-century
minor poem, to another. As the men write in schools, so they can be handled in them.

Yet I should hope that it must have been already made apparent how very far the present writer
is from undervaluing the period with which he has essayed to deal. He might perhaps be regarded
as overvaluing it with more apparent reason--not, I think, with any reason that is more than
apparent.

For this was the time, if not of the Birth--the exact times and seasons of literary births
no man knoweth--at any rate of the first appearance, full-blown or full-fledged, of Romance.
Many praiseworthy folk have made many efforts to show that Romance was after all no such new
thing--that there is Romance in the Odyssey, Romance in the choruses of Æschylus, Romance East
and West, North and South, before the Middle Ages. They are only less unwise than the other
good folk who endeavour to tie Romance down to a Teutonic origin, or a Celtic, or in the other
sense a Romance one, to Chivalry (which was in truth rather its offspring than its parent),
to this, and that, and the other. "All the best things in literature," it has been said, "are
returns"; and this is perfectly true, just as it is perfectly true in another sense that all
the best things in literature are novelties. In this particular growth, being as it was a product
of the unchanging human mind, there were notes, doubtless, of Homer and of Æschylus, of Solomon
the son of David and of Jesus the son of Sirach. But the constituents of the mixture were newly
grouped; elements which had in the past been inconspicuous or dormant assumed prominence and
activity; and the whole was new.

It was even one of the few, the very few, permutations and combinations of the elements of
literature, which are of such excellence, volume, durability, and charm, that they rank above
all minor changes and groupings. An amabilis insania of the same general kind with those above
noted has endeavoured again and again to mark off and define the chief constituents of the
fact. The happiest result, if only a partial one, of such attempts has been the opposition
between Classical precision and proportion and the Romantic vague; but no one would hold this
out as a final or sufficient account of the matter. It may, indeed, be noted that that peculiar
blended character which has been observed in the genesis of perhaps the greatest and most characteristic
bloom of the whole garden--the Arthurian Legend--is to be found elsewhere also. The Greeks,
if they owed part of the intensity, had undoubtedly owed nearly all the gaps and flaws of their
production, as well as its extraordinarily short-lived character, to their lack alike of instructors
and of fellow-pupils--to the defect in Comparison. Roman Literature, always more or less in
statu pupillari, had wanted the fellow-pupils, if not the tutor. But the national divisions
of mediæval Europe--saved from individual isolation by the great bond of the Church, saved
from mutual lack of understanding by the other great bond of the Latin quasi-vernacular, shaken
together by wars holy and profane, and while each exhibiting the fresh characteristics of national
infancy, none of them case-hardened into national insularity--enjoyed a unique opportunity,
an opportunity never likely to be again presented, of producing a literature common in essential
characteristic, but richly coloured and fancifully shaded in each division by the genius of
race and soil. And this literature was developed in the two centuries which have been the subject
of our survey. It is true that not all the nations were equally contributors to the positive
literary production of the time. England was apparently paying a heavy penalty for her unique
early accomplishments, was making a large sacrifice for the better things to come. Between
1100 and 1300 no single book that can be called great was produced in the English tongue, and
hardly any single writer distinctly deserving the same adjective was an Englishman. But how
mighty were the compensations! The language itself was undergoing a process of "inarching,"
of blending, crossing, which left it the richest, both in positive vocabulary and in capacity
for increasing that vocabulary at need, of any European speech; the possessor of a double prosody,
quantitative and alliterative, which secured it from the slightest chance of poetic poverty
or hide-boundness; relieved from the cumbrousness of synthetic accidence to all but the smallest
extent, and in case to elaborate a syntax equally suitable for verse and prose, for exposition
and narrative, for oratory and for argument. Moreover it was, as I have at least endeavoured
to show, probably England which provided the groundwork and first literary treatment, it was
certainly England that provided the subject, of the largest, the most enduring, the most varied
single division of mediæval work; while the Isle of Britain furnished at least its quota to
the general literature of Europe other than vernacular.

Other countries, though their languages were not conquering their conqueror as English was
doing with French, also displayed sufficient individuality in dealing with the models and the
materials with which French activity supplied them. The best poetical work of Icelandic, like
the best work of its cousin Anglo-Saxon, was indeed over before the period began, and the best
prose work was done before it ended, the rapid and never fully explained exhaustion of Norse
energy and enterprise preventing the literature which had been produced from having effect
on other nations. The children of the vates of Grettir and Njal contented themselves, like
others, with adapting French romances, and, unlike others, they did not make this adaptation
the groundwork of new and original effort. But meanwhile they had made in the Sagas, greater
and lesser, such a contribution as no literature has excelled in intensity and character, comparatively
small as it is in bulk and comparatively undistinguished in form.

"Unlike others," it has been said; for there can be no doubt that the Charlemagne Cycle from
Northern, the troubadour lyric from Southern, France exercised upon Italy the same effect that
was exercised in Germany by the romances of Arthur and of Antiquity, and by the trouvère poetry
generally. But in these two countries, as also more doubtfully, but still with fair certainty,
in Spain, the French models found, as they did also in England, literary capacities and tastes
not jaded and outworn, but full of idiosyncrasy, and ready to develop each in its own way.
Here however, by that extraordinary law of compensation which seems to be the most general
law of the universe, the effects differed as much in quantity and time as in character--a remarkable
efflorescence of literature in Germany being at once produced, to relapse shortly into a long
sterility, a tardier but more constant growth following in England and Italy, while the effect
in Spain was the most partial and obscure of all. The great names of Wolfram von Eschenbach
and Walther von der Vogelweide hardly meet with any others in these literatures representing
writers who are known abroad as well as at home. Only philologists out of England (and I fear
not too many besides philologists in it) read Alisaunder and Richard Coeur de Lion, Arthour
and Merlin, or the Brut; the early Italian poets shine but in the reflected light of Dante;
and if any one knows the Cid, it is usually from Corneille, or Herder, or Southey, rather than
from his own noble Poem. But no one who does study these forgotten if not disdained ones, no
one who with a love for literature bestows even the most casual attention on them, can fail
to see their meaning and their promise, their merit and their charm.

That languages of such power should have remained without literatures is of course inconceivable;
that any of them even needed the instruction they received from France cannot be said positively;
but what is certain is that they all received it. In most cases the acknowledgment is direct,
express, not capable of being evaded or misconstrued: in all it is incapable of being mistaken
by those who have eyes, and who have trained them. To inquire into the cause were rather idle.
The central position of France; the early notoriety and vogue of the schools of Paris; the
curious position of the language, midway between the extremer Romance and the purely Teutonic
tongues, which made it a sort of natural interpreter between them; perhaps most of all that
inexplicable but undeniable formal talent of the French for literature, which is as undeniable
and as inexplicable as the less formal genius of the English,--all these things, except the
central position, only push the problem farther back, and are in need of being explained themselves.
But the fact, the solid and certain fact, remains. And so it is that the greater part of this
book has necessarily been occupied in expounding, first the different forms which the lessons
of France took, and then the different ways in which other countries learnt those lessons and
turned them to account.

It is thus difficult to overestimate the importance of that wonderful literature which rises
dominant among all these, imparting to all, borrowing from none, or borrowing only subjects,
exhibiting finish of structure when all the rest were merely barbarian novices, exploring every
literary form from history to drama, and from epic to song, while others were stammering their
exercises, mostly learnt from her. The exact and just proportions of the share due to Southern
and Northern France respectively none can now determine, and scholarship oscillates between
extremes as usual. What is certain (perhaps it is the only thing that is certain) is that to
Provençal belongs the credit of establishing for the first time a modern prosody of such a
kind as to turn out verse of perfect form. Whether, if Pallas in her warlike capacity had been
kinder to the Provençals, she could or would have inspired them with more varied kinds of literature
than the exquisite lyric which as a fact is almost their sole title to fame, we cannot say.
As a matter of fact, the kinds other than lyric, and some of the lyrical kinds themselves--the
short tale, the epic, the romance, the play, the history, the sermon--all find their early
home, if not their actual birthplace, north, not south, of the Limousin line. It was from Normandy
and Poitou, from Anjou and the Orleannais, from the Isle of France and Champagne, that in language
at least the patterns which were used by all Europe, the specifications, so to speak, which
all Europe adapted and filled up, went forth, sometimes not to return.

Yet it is not in the actual literature of France itself, except in those contributions to the
Arthurian story which, as it has been pointed out, were importations, not indigenous growths,
and in some touches of the Rose, that the spirit of Romance is most evident--the spirit which,
to those who have come thoroughly to appreciate it, makes classical grace and finish seem thin
and tame, Oriental exuberance tasteless and vulgar, modern scientific precision inexpressibly
charmless and jejune.

Different sides of this spirit display themselves, of course, in different productions of the
time. There is the spirit of combat, in which the Chansons de geste show the way, anticipating
in time, if not quite equalling in intensity, the Sagas and the Nibelungenlied. There is sometimes
faintly mingled with this (as in the gabz of the Voyage à Constantinoble, and the exploits
of Rainoart with the tinel) the spirit, half rough, half sly, of jesting, which by-and-by takes
shape in the fabliaux. There is the immense and restless spirit of curiosity, which explores
and refashions, to its own guise and fancy, the relics of the old world, the treasures of the
East, the lessons of Scripture itself. Side by side with these there is that singular form
of the religious spirit which has been so constantly misunderstood, and which, except in a
very few persons, seems so rare nowadays--the faith which is implicit without being imbecile,
childlike without being childish, devout with a fearless familiarity, the spirit to which the
Dies Iræ and the sermons of St Francis were equally natural expressions, and which, if it could
sometimes exasperate itself into the practices of the Inquisition, found a far commoner and
more genuine expression in the kindly humanities of the Ancren Riwle. There is no lack of knowledge
and none of inquiry; though in embarking on the enormous ocean of ignorance, it is inquiry
not cabined and cribbed by our limits. In particular, there is an almost unparalleled, a certainly
unsurpassed, activity in metaphysical speculation, a fence-play of thought astonishing in its
accuracy and style. As Poetry slowly disintegrates and exfoliates itself into Prose, literary
gifts for which verse was unsuited develop themselves in the vernaculars; and the chronicle--itself
so lately an epic--becomes a history, or at least a memoir; the orator, sacred or profane,
quits the school rhetoric and its familiar Latin vehicle for more direct means of persuasion;
the jurist gives these vernaculars precision by adopting them.

But with and through and above all these various spirits there is most of all that abstract
spirit of poetry, which, though not possessed by the Middle Ages or by Romance alone, seems
somehow to be a more inseparable and pervading familiar of Romance and of the Middle Ages than
of any other time and any other kind of literature. The sense of mystery, which had rarely
troubled the keen intellect of the Greek and the sturdy common-sense of the Roman, which was
even a little degraded and impoverished (except in the Jewish prophets and in a few other places)
by the busy activity of Oriental imagination, which we ourselves have banished, or think we
have banished, to a few "poets' scrolls," was always present to the mediæval mind. In its broadest
and coarsest jests, in its most laborious and (as we are pleased to call them) dullest expansions
of stories, in its most wire-drawn and most lifeless allegory, in its most irritating admixture
of science and fable, there is always hard by, always ready to break in, the sense of the great
and wonderful things of Life, and Love, and Death, of the half-known God and the unknown Hereafter.
It is this which gives to Romance, and to mediæval work generally, that "high seriousness,"
the want of which was so strangely cast at it in reproach by a critic who, I cannot but think,
was less intimately acquainted with its literature than with that either of classical or of
modern times. Constantly in mediæval poetry, very commonly in mediæval prose, the great things
appear greatly. There is in English verse romance perhaps no less felicitous sample of the
kind as it stands, none which has received greater vituperation for dulness and commonplace,
than Sir Amadas. Yet who could much better the two simple lines, when the hero is holding revel
after his ghastly meeting with the unburied corse in the roadside chapel?--

    "But the dead corse that lay on bier
      Full mickle his thought was on."

In Homer's Greek or Dante's Italian such a couplet (which, be it observed, is as good in rhythm
and vowel contrast as in simple presentation of thought) could hardly lack general admiration.
In the English poetry of the Middle Ages it is dismissed as a commonplace.

