Lord Dundonald's Departure for North America.--Extracts from the Correspondence of Lord Auckland
and others Respecting West Indian Affairs and European Politics.--Bermuda.--The French Revolution
of 1848 and its Issues.--Ireland and the Chartists.--The Death of Lord Auckland           
294

CHAPTER XXVIII.

[1848-1850.]

Lord Dundonald's Visit to the North American and West Indian Colonies, and his Opinions thereon.--Newfoundland
and its Fisheries.--Labrador.--Bermuda; its Defences and its Geological Formation.--Barbadoes.--The
Negroes.--Trinidad.--Its Pitch Lake.--The Depressed Condition of the West Indian Colonies.--Lord
Dundonald's Suggestions for their Improvement                                   307

CHAPTER XXIX.

[1851-1853.]

Lord Dundonald's Return from America.--His Arguments for the Relief of
the Newfoundland Fisheries and the West India Trade.--The Trinidad
Bitumen.--Lord Dundonald's other Scientific Pursuits and Views
                                                                    328

CHAPTER XXX.

[1851-1860.]

The Russian War.--Lord Dundonald's Proposals to Employ his Secret Plans against Cronstadt,
Sebastopol, and other Strongholds.--His Correspondence thereupon with Sir James Graham and
Lord Palmerston.--Their Rejection.--Lord Dundonald's Appointment as Rear-Admiral of the United
Kingdom.--Prince Albert's Invitation to him to become an Elder Brother of the Trinity House.--His
Correspondence with Lord Palmerston respecting the Restitution of his Half-Pay.--His Last Work.--His
Death and Burial.--Conclusion                       337

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX.

(Page 161.)--Captain Frank Abney Hastings's Letters to Lord Cochrane (1827)               
370

THE LIFE

OF

THOMAS, TENTH EARL OF DUNDONALD.

CHAPTER XVII.

[1827.]

Lord Cochrane entered the Egean Sea with his little schooner Unicorn and the French brig Sauveur
on the 17th of March, 1827. In the afternoon he halted off the island of Hydra, there to leave
the Greek deputy Orlando, who had accompanied him from Marseilles. "I was surprised," he said,
"to observe that, except the open batteries near the town of Hydra, the whole coast of the
island remained unprotected, although, in a smooth sea, a landing might be effected in almost
every part of its circumference. The town of Hydra is built in an irregular manner on the fall
of the mountain about the port, and presents a clean appearance, the houses being all whitewashed.
There is not a tree on the island, though there are a few straggling bushes. There is scarcely
any land capable of cultivation; but there are some vineyards on the south side and a few small
gardens near the town. The port is small, the water deep, and the vessels made fast by hawsers
to the shore. It is evident, that, if Greece obtains independence, this island, to which the
inhabitants fled to enjoy that species of precarious liberty that depends on eluding the view
of tyranny, must be abandoned. Even water is only to be had from tanks which are filled by
the winter's rain."

From Hydra Lord Cochrane proceeded to Egina, making a circuit in order that he might have a
view of Athens. "The Acropolis," he wrote, "with the whole scenery at sunset, was beautiful.
Alas, what a change! what melancholy recollections crowd on the mind! There was the seat of
science, of literature, and the arts. At this instant the barbarian Turk is actually demolishing,
by the shells that now are flying through the air, the scanty remains of the once magnificent
temples in the Acropolis."

He called at Egina on the 18th, in order to despatch letters, announcing his arrival, to the
Governing Commission, as it was called, then located in the island, before proceeding to Poros,
where he anchored on the morning of the 19th. "The main entrance," we further read in his journal,
"is scarcely wide enough to work a ship in, if the wind is from the land. The water, however,
is sufficiently deep close to the shore; and the port, when you have entered through this narrow
channel, is one of the finest in the world. There is another entrance towards the south, but
it is shallow and crooked, and consequently used only by small vessels. The town of Poros consists
of a number of irregularly-built houses on the side of a hill, and merits the appellation of
picturesque. There are remains of temples on the island, and the stone is yet to be seen on
which Demosthenes is said to have been sitting when he was recalled by Antipater to Athens,
and in consequence of which recall he took poison and died."

No sooner was the joyful intelligence conveyed to the inhabitants that Lord Cochrane, the long-expected
deliverer of Greece, had actually arrived, than all the leading men who happened to be in Poros
at the time hurried on board the Unicorn to welcome their champion and to give personal assurance
of their devotion to him. The first to arrive was Jakomaki Tombazes, who was now acting with
Dr. Gosse as superintendent of marine affairs, having surrendered the chief command of the
fleet into the hands of Andreas Miaoulis. Miaoulis himself soon followed, and with him Alexander
Mavrocordatos and many others. "Prince Mavrocordatos," wrote Lord Cochrane's secretary, Mr.
George Cochrane, "was a short, stout, well-built man, of very dark complexion, with black eyes,
an oval face expressing great intelligence, and his hair very long, hanging upon his shoulders.
He was dressed in the European style, and wore on his head a little cloth cap. He also habitually
wore spectacles. His manners indicated a man perfectly accustomed to the society of persons
of rank. He immediately entered into familiar conversation with Lord Cochrane in the French
language. He carried his pipe with him, which he continually smoked. Miaoulis was dressed in
the Hydriot fashion; but, of course, as became a primate of the island, his attire was of a
description much superior to that of his poorer fellow-countrymen.[1] His countenance was open
and dignified, and so calm that it appeared like a rock which nothing could move. Not that
it had any character of sternness in it; on the contrary, it possessed a placidity, blended
with firmness, which was anything but forbidding. The moment Miaoulis came on deck, he cordially
shook hands with Lord Cochrane, and a broken conversation commenced between them in Spanish,
Miaoulis speaking that language but imperfectly. At the period in question he commanded the
Hellas frigate. He knew perfectly well that Lord Cochrane's arrival would take the command
out of his hands. Nevertheless, he evinced not the least jealousy, but was one of the first
to offer his services under Lord Cochrane. 'I know my countrymen,' he said, 'and that I can
be of service to your lordship on board the frigate. I will therefore sail under your command.'
Such an offer was not to be refused, and he was requested to remain on board. Miaoulis informed
Lord Cochrane that the hope of Greece rested in the Hellas, and in the quondam merchant brigs
belonging to private individuals in the islands of Hydra, Spetzas, Poros, and Egina, amounting
to about two hundred and fifty. These vessels had been armed as men-of-war; some had been turned
into fireships, and it was the latter that struck so much terror into the Turks, several Turkish
vessels of the line and frigates having been destroyed under the guidance of the brave Kanaris,
a native of the ill-fated island of Psara."

  [1] "These men," says the same authority, "generally speaking, from
  their complexions, evinced that they had been mariners all their
  lives, the sun having well tanned them. They wore small red caps, from
  which their hair flowed wildly down their shoulders. On the upper lip
  they wore very long mustachios, which the older ones were continually
  curling, and bringing out the point. They wore trousers of blue
  cotton, and a jacket; and by the immense capacity of the former, I
  should suppose they must have contained at least twelve yards. This
  was gathered into plaits round the waist, and only descended to the
  knees, which were left open. The hinder part presented a most singular
  appearance. It hung down almost trailing upon the ground in a huge
  bag, which kept moving backwards and forwards in a ludicrous manner at
  every motion of the body. They wore shoes, but no stockings; and their
  legs were as dark as their countenances, and covered with hair. Round
  their waist they wore a large red sash in several folds. Their jacket
  was similar to a waistcoat, with sleeves, and ornamented with small
  buttons from the wrist to the elbow, and the same on the
  bosom."--"Wanderings in Greece."

The compliments and congratulations offered in person to Lord Cochrane immediately after his
anchoring off Poros were followed by compliments and congratulations yet more profuse conveyed
to him in writing by all classes and from all quarters. One of the first and most important
communications was addressed to him on the 18th of March, in the name of the National Assembly,
as it styled itself, met at Kastri, by its president, Georgios Sissinis. "Greece," he said,
"rejoices at your appearance in her seas. The aspirations of the Greeks are realised. Their
hopes in the success of their sacred struggle revive. The Greek nation, assembled here in a
third National Assembly, desires to see you and invites you here, sending to you, with that
object, the General-in-Chief of the armies of the Peloponnesus, Theodore Kolokotrones, Messrs.
Kanaris, Botazes, and Bulgaris, General Zavella and Count Metaxas, who will tender to you the
thanks of all for your zeal on behalf of their cause." "The Government is seized with unutterable
joy at your auspicious arrival," wrote the members of the rival assembly at Egina, on the same
day: "the Government wishes you happy success in all your enterprises, and hopes soon to find
in you a triumphant conqueror." "For a long while past," wrote the governors of Hydra, "our
brave mariners have centred all their hopes on your arrival. You can understand then the joy
that we felt when we saw your brig and schooner, and when we knew that you had actually arrived.
We hasten to tender to you the homage of our island, and to express to you our impatience to
see our little navy placed under your orders, and guided by you to new victories, by which
the safety and independence of Greece may be secured." "Your arrival in our beloved country,"
wrote the primates of Spetzas, "has filled the soul of every inhabitant of our island with
joy, and every one presents his thanks to Heaven for having at last sent such an one to fight
with us and to protect our fatherland." "You have come to Greece," wrote Konduriottes, "at
a moment when this unfortunate country most needs all that it can hope from the wisdom and
courage of so great a defender. The announcement of your arrival will form an epoch in the
history of our Revolution, and, I dare to hope, in that of our moral regeneration."

That moral regeneration was needed Lord Cochrane already well knew, and he had not been a day
in Greece before the knowledge was forced upon him afresh. The unworthy disposition of most
of the men in power had never been more plainly shown, nor threatened more imminent danger
to the independence of Greece, than at the time of Lord Cochrane's arrival. With a few notable
exceptions, of whom Miaoulis was perhaps the chief, the Greek leaders had forgotten all their
national duty in personal ambition and jealousy. If they united in parties, it was only because
each one hoped that, as soon as his own party was triumphant, he himself would be able to obtain
the mastery over all his associates.

Two factions, especially, prevailed in Greece at this time, which, partly from the circumstance
that they were supported by unwise Philhellenes of the two nations, partly because their native
members looked for their chief support to those nations, were known as the French and English
parties.

Among Philhellenes the leading promoter of the French party was Colonel Fabvier, who was now,
with some of the troops whom he commanded, defending the Acropolis from the siege of the Turks.
He was an officer of considerable merit, with the interests of the Greeks at heart, but of
surpassing vanity and ambition. His hope was to become the Napoleon of the East, to convert
the whole male population of Greece into a huge army, with himself at its head. With him sympathized
most of the military leaders, who, originally little better than brigands, found everything
to gratify their present tastes and their future hopes in a scheme which would give them endless
employment in lawless warfare and martial dominion. These, coming chiefly from the Morea, caused
the faction also to be known as the Moreot party.

More formidable was the English party, with little that was English about it but the name.
Its ambition was not military, but diplomatic, the possession of place and power in such ways
as were then possible. Its real, if not avowed, leader was Prince Mavrocordatos, with an able
abettor in his brother-in-law, Mr. Spiridion Trikoupes. All through the previous year Mavrocordatos
and his friends had sought zealously to win for Greece the protection of England. They had
corresponded to that end with Mr. Stratford Canning, the British ambassador at Constantinople,
with Captain Hamilton, who was then stationed in Greek waters to watch the interests of English
shipping, and with others. They had sent an irregular deputation to treat with the British
Government, and had used all the means in their power, so far as foreign intervention was concerned,
for the establishment of a smaller but more organized Greek nation than that which their rivals
desired. Had that end been worthily sought, they would have deserved universal sympathy. But
they showed by their conduct that they cared little for good government, or for the real interests
of the community. They exercised their abilities and squandered their resources in schemes
for selfish aggrandisement, and the possession of authority which was to benefit none but themselves.
Many of their prominent members having studied statecraft, before the time of the Revolution,
as Christian officials in the employment of Turkey, to whom the name Phanariot was given from
the Christian quarter of Constantinople, the whole party acquired the name of Phanariot.

This latter party had all along hoped to make Lord Cochrane its tool. It was Mavrocordatos
who first invited him to enter the service of the Greeks; and when that service was agreed
upon no effort was spared to attach him to the group of partizans among whom Mavrocordatos
was chief. Lord Cochrane, steadily refusing this, soon incurred their opposition, and to this
opposition is to be attributed some of the unreasonable blame which was afterwards brought
upon him. Much further opposition to him, moreover, was soon aroused by his, in like manner,
refusing to become the creature of the other leading faction. He wisely resolved, from the
first--and he maintained his resolution throughout--to belong to no party, but having devoted
himself to the cause of the Greek nation as a whole, to seek only those objects which were
for the good of all.

That resolution was soon put to the test. Immediately after his arrival on the 19th of March,
great efforts were made to implicate him in the schemes of the Governing Commission, as it
was called, which, having outrun the time appointed for its duration, was continuing to assert
its authority in Egina, and to use that authority in the interests of the Phanariot party.
Two days after that his partizanship was sought for the Moreot faction, which had set up a
rival government, styled the National Assembly, at Hermione, under the joint leadership of
Kolokotrones, Konduriottes, and Kolettes. On the 20th he was waited upon by the deputation
named in the congratulatory letter which has already been quoted from.

"With his whole party," said Lord Cochrane's secretary, reporting this interview, "Kolokotrones
rode down to the beach opposite the ship, and sent off to say he would there wait until a boat
should be sent for him and his followers, the whole being about a hundred men, armed, according
to the custom of the country, with pistols or daggers stuck in the left side of a sash or belt.
The two boats sent being insufficient, not more than twenty came on board with the general.
Kolokotrones was the spokesman, and there appeared to be great energy in his gesticulations,
which did not correspond with the translation by Count Metaxas, who, from the smile on his
countenance, seemed to hold in no great respect the mental acquirements of Kolokotrones. 'Greece,'
said the latter, 'required a government to bring order out of chaos. The functions of the commission
appointed by the last Legislative Assembly ought to have ceased. Its continuance in power was
not legal, and consequently the members of the National Assembly had met at Hermione to name
their successors; to which place it was requested that Lord Cochrane would proceed, in order
to be present at their deliberations.' A letter to this effect, signed by the President of
the Assembly, was then put into Lord Cochrane's hands.

"Lord Cochrane made answer verbally through Count Metaxas to the deputies, that he held in
due estimation the honour they had done him by personally delivering the communication as well
as by the very flattering terms used towards him by the members assembled at Hermione. He regretted
the decision that had taken place, and, recommending reconciliation, urged the necessity of
prompt exertion and the little good that the wisest legislative enactments could effect, whilst
the Turks overran their country, whilst they possessed three-fourths of its strongholds, and
whilst the enemy besieged the capital of the state, which was in danger of falling into their
power. His lordship expressed his regret that so many able and brave military officers as those
he saw before him should occupy themselves with civil discussions in the present state of their
country.

"Upon this being interpreted to Kolokotrones, he became exceedingly warm, and urged that the
duty he was now occupied with was more essential than any other. He, however, cooled on seeing,
as we presume, that no one seconded his opinion, which he evidently expected by his glances
towards his companions. Kolokotrones remained some time without saying a word, and then rising,
took Lord Cochrane by the hand and assured him that he would do his utmost to produce a reconciliation
of parties. Lord Cochrane urged that the termination of differences between the parties should
be within the space of three days. Kolokotrones requested five; but afterwards caused his interpreter,
Count Metaxas, to say that possibly an answer might be received from Hermione even before the
shortest period fixed. Count Metaxas was the last who left the cabin, and as soon as the others
were gone, he turned to Lord Cochrane and assured him that his utmost endeavours should not
be wanting to accomplish so desirable an object. The Count has evidently the management of
Kolokotrones, to whom he probably adheres in order to arrive at real power, under the sanction
of an individual on whose shoulders may be heaped all the evil measures to be anticipated in
acquiring or upholding any authority over a multitude of rival chiefs and their rude followers.

"Kolokotrones and his party then left the schooner, having first directed one of their soldiers
to await Lord Cochrane's reply to the communication of the Assembly. A deputation from Hydra,
and a crowd of other visitors, however, precluded Lord Cochrane's despatching the courier until
the following morning."

The reply, dated the 21st of March, was wise and bold. "I have had the honour," wrote Lord
Cochrane, "to receive the despatches which you have addressed to me, and I cannot but be flattered
by the sentiments that they convey. This satisfaction is the more lively because I have had
the opportunity of becoming personally acquainted with his excellency General Kolokotrones,
and the officers who accompanied him. But I freely acknowledge that it is blended with a feeling
of regret, in that it appears to me that the bravest and most renowned officers of Greece are
devoting all their energies to the formation of a civil government and wasting their time in
discussions as to the place in which they shall effect a reunion while the enemy is overrunning
the country without resistance. Already he possesses three-fourths of the fortresses of Greece,
and is besieging the capital of the republic. Athens is on the point of falling into the power
of the Ottoman forces; the brave Fabvier and a few heroes, full of enthusiasm, are engaged
in aiding the valiant defenders of that city; and meanwhile the officers of Greece betake themselves
again and again to frivolous discussions on civil affairs. If the shade of Demosthenes could
again animate the ashes of this great man which are here entombed, he would, changing only
the names of persons and places, address to you his first Philippic, and you would hear from
the lips of a compatriot profoundly versed in history and in the knowledge of mankind, what
ought to be your manner of acting. I recommend you to read his discourse in full assembly,
and I especially recommend the citizens charged with presiding over the destinies of Greece
to follow his counsels point by point. With an authority so applicable to the existing circumstances,
it would be unpardonable presumption in me to address to you other than his own words.

To the same effect were Lord Cochrane's answers to the congratulatory letters sent to him by
the other leading persons and parties in Greece. "It may be well to notice," he wrote on the
same day to the Government at Egina, "that in the conversation which I had with the deputation
from Hermione, I respectfully suggested that, as laws cannot be promulgated with advantage
whilst the mass of the country is under the iron yoke of Turkish despotism, nor executed whilst
the lives and properties of all continue insecure, the National Assembly might be adjourned
with advantage until the capital is free, and thus we should avoid debating whilst we should
be acting, and check those animosities and divisions which naturally arise from difference
of sentiment under the peculiar conditions of modern Greece." "The time now draws near," he
wrote to the Government of Hydra, "when the approach of a large force may reasonably be anticipated,
and when consequently the means that the Greeks possess of contending with their enemies will
be comparatively diminished. I have, therefore, in the name of all Europe--by whose people
I may in truth say that I have been sent here--called upon the Executive Government, and upon
all those connected with public affairs, to act with union and promptitude, and I have informed
them that without harmony and exertion amongst the chiefs, the slender means placed at my disposal,
and any services which I personally could render, would prove of no avail. The people are split
into factions, and operations are paralyzed by the conflicting personal interests of chiefs
who perceive not that the prize about which they are contending will fall to the share of others.
I have as yet taken no authority upon me in naval affairs, because if union do not prevail
I shall deceive Greece and deceive the world by inducing a belief that I could assist you."

While waiting, however, for the rivalries of the Greek leaders to be removed, or at any rate
set aside for a time, Lord Cochrane was not idle. He had frequent interviews, not only with
Admiral Miaoulis and the other native seamen of ability, but also with Dr. Gosse, and with
Captain Abney Hastings, who joined him on the 22nd, and provided him with much precise information
as to the naval strength of Greece, the character of the officers and crews, and the best methods
of attacking the Turks with advantage. Information as precise about the land forces was derived
from other Philhellenes, among whom Colonel Heideck and Colonel Gordon were perhaps the best
informed. Lord Cochrane also made the acquaintance of a new comer in Greece, with whom he was
soon to have very intimate relations--Sir Richard Church.

General Church had begun life as an officer in the British army. He had seen various service
between 1801 and 1809, and in the latter year had organised a battalion of Greeks at Zante,
with which, and afterwards with another which he also formed, he had played an important part
in the war for the liberation of the Ionian Islands. On the establishment of peace, he had
passed into the Neapolitan service. Many of his old Greek soldiers were now leaders in the
Revolution, and, while Lord Cochrane was on his way to become the First Admiral of the Greeks,
General Church had been invited to become Generalissimo on land. He arrived at Porto Kheli,
near Kastri or Hermione, on the 9th of March, eight days before the appearance of Lord Cochrane.
The generals assembled at Hermione came out to meet him and tender their submission. "Our father
is at last come," said one; "we have only to obey him and our liberty is secured." Sir Richard
Church was at once sought as a leader by the Moreot faction, just as Lord Cochrane was claimed
by the Phanariots as their champion. He, however, like his new comrade, wisely resolved to
avoid partisanship and to study the interests of Greece as a whole, and to him must be assigned
a share of the good work of pacification in which Lord Cochrane was the prime mover. "This
unhappy country," he wrote to his new friend on the 19th of March, "is now divided by absurd
and criminal dissensions. I hope, however, that your lordship's arrival will have a happy effect,
and that they will do everything in their power to be worthy of such a leader."

They did something, if not everything. It was firmly believed that party strife had reached
such a point that, had Lord Cochrane's arrival been delayed only a few days longer, the leaders
of the National Assembly at Hermione, turning aside from their useless discussions, would have
acted upon a plot that had been in preparation for several weeks, and, landing a hostile force
at Egina, would have violently seized the whole Governing Commission there established. Lord
Cochrane's honest reproofs averted this, and so saved Greece from the horrors of another civil war.

"I am happy to be able to inform you," wrote General Church on the 25th of March, "that things
are brought to that state that the union of the parties is, I think, now effected. The deputies
from Kastri came over to me yesterday morning to Damala, and there they met those of Egina.
After some discussion, they have come to a conclusion, which, if ratified by the Assembly at
Egina, will finally terminate the affair."

The affair was not terminated immediately. Lord Cochrane had to despatch many more letters
and messages of earnest entreaty and indignant reproach to the leaders of the rival factions
at Egina and Hermione, and to other prominent men, before the good end that he and all true
Philhellenes and patriots sought could be gained. "I have received the letter which your excellency
has addressed to me," wrote the worthy Miaoulis, on the 3rd of April, in answer to a letter
declining to take command of the fleet until the differences were settled; "and I appreciate
the objections which it contains. I wish with all my heart that the reasons which prevent you
may not exist beyond this evening, and that a general union will induce you to place yourself
at the head of the Greek navy."

Before that, on the 28th of March, Lord Cochrane had received a formal commission from the
Government at Egina. "Knowing well," ran the document, "the valour, wisdom, ability, and energy,
and all the warlike virtues which are joined in the estimable person of Lord Cochrane, and
by which he has been distinguished in all the various services with which he has elsewhere
been charged, the Governing Commission ordains, first, that Lord Cochrane be appointed First
Admiral of the Fleet and of all the naval forces of Greece; secondly, that he rank above all
other naval officers, and enjoy all the honours, privileges, and rights that appertain to his
office; thirdly, that all the admirals, officers, and seamen of Greece recognize him as their
superior, and obey his orders in all that concerns the service of the nation, and that all
servants of the State, whether civil or military, render him the honour and respect that are
his due; fourthly, that the General Secretary of the Government execute this order in all respects
so soon as his Excellency Lord Cochrane shall have taken oath to perform the duties, in regard
of which he pledges himself to serve and to act." The document was signed by Andreas Zaimes,
as president, by Trikoupes, Demetrakopoulos, Blakos, Zamados, Mavromichales, Anargiros, Monarchides,
and Zotos, and by Glarakes, the Secretary of State.

Lord Cochrane refused to accept the trust thus imposed upon him, however, until the authorities
at Egina had united with those at Hermione and with the primates of the islands in forming
one true National Assembly. They still hesitated and objected, and he still had to warn and
to expostulate. At length, on the 3rd of April, being convinced that milder language was useless,
he wrote to the rival leaders, informing them that, as his counsels appeared to be of no avail,
seeing that they were addressed to persons, who, professing to have the interests of the nation
at heart, were determined to ruin those interests by their obstinate selfishness, he should
quit Greece at once, unless, before the close of the day, they agreed to lay aside their differences.

