 In England these considerations weigh so seriously with
the heads of families that the movement is progressing rapidly for bringing the highest form
of education as closely as possible to the doors of the parents, as witness the recent establishment
of universities and colleges in Manchester, Leeds, Liverpool, and Wales. And should there be
any doubt as to the feasibility of such a reform, it can be solved without going beyond the
limits of the Roumanian capital, where there is an educational establishment for girls which
is as unique as it is well conducted.

[Footnote 63: Statistica din Romania, Ministeriu de Interne, Bucuresci, 1881 (State Printing
Office); and Gotha Almanack, 1882. It may be interesting to compare the outlay in Roumania
with that of Great Britain. Last year our State expenditure was 2,683,958l. against about 110,000l.
in Roumania, for primary instruction only. (See Statistica, pp. 13 and 22: the amount in lei
or francs is 3,650,698.) The population of the United Kingdom is about seven times that of
Roumania, and the average attendance of children in 1880 was 3,155,534. This gives about 17s.
per head for State aid, without reference to school rates, which brings the total cost for
each child in Great Britain to 2l. 2s. In Roumania it is 1l. 8s. as above.]

[Footnote 64: Œuvres complètes, vol. vi.]

[Footnote 65: Pp. 103 et seq.]

[Footnote 66: We heard similar complaints in Transylvania.]

II.

The 'Asyle Hélène' at Bucarest, although it is nominally a foundling institution, really presents
many educational advantages which are only to be found in the ladies' colleges of England and
the United States. A large proportion of the scholars are foundlings or orphans; but many pay
for their instruction, and some of the girls are the daughters of parents of acknowledged position
in society. The school was originally what it still professes to be, an asylum for foundlings,
which was conducted in a private house belonging to Dr. Davila, who is still the active spirit
in the institution. At that time only forty children were educated in it. In 1862 the Princess
Elene Cuza, a lady of great virtue and benevolence, placed herself at the head of the institution,
and in 1869 the present building was erected. If the Agricultural College with its grounds
is to be admired, much more so is the Asyle Hélène. It is a palatial building which stands
upon an eminence, is surrounded by beautiful plantations, and approached by fine avenues, whilst
its educational arrangements are as excellent as the institution is beneficent. The Queen is
its patroness, and she takes great interest in its success. It accommodates 230 girls from
nine to nineteen years of age, most if not all of whom live in the institution, and twenty
little children who are educated on the 'Froebel system.' The pupils attend four primary classes,
and then proceed either to the five higher girls' classes, or to a technical school (atelier),
also in the same building, whilst a good many are trained as teachers. The ordinary course
of instruction lasts five years, to which one year is added for the last-named class of scholars.
The subjects taught in the four primary classes are Roumanian language and history, writing,
arithmetic, drawing, music, the elements of physical science, sewing, and embroidery, whilst
the instruction advances further and further until in the fifth girls' class (the ninth in
the school) the girls are taught Roumanian, French and German literature, universal history
and geography, drawing from nature and models, designs for embroidery, geometry and perspective,
natural history, mineralogy, chemistry, vocal music, needlework, bookkeeping, &c., and in the
highest class of all (that for teachers) there are added geology, physiology, cosmography,
and Italian, in addition to French and German. The collections and appliances to facilitate
instruction in these subjects are excellent, consisting of chemical and physical laboratories,
a small museum of natural history, geology, &c., a library, workrooms, an artists' studio,
a theatre where the children give performances and recitations, and a simple gymnastic apparatus.
No doubt many of the pupils limit the range of subjects in which they try to excel, but what
we can vouch for after twice visiting the school with Dr. Davila, and seeing the pupils at
the Asyle as well as in their summer quarters, a convent in the Carpathians, is that they are
well taught, and that some of them would be a credit to the most advanced students in any school
we have visited. The readiness with which they answer all questions, whether of a practical
or theoretical nature, in a language which is not their own, is as surprising as it is creditable.
Many of course belong to a humble rank in life, and their limited intelligence renders them
fit only to become domestic servants, the avocation for which therefore they are trained; others
go out as teachers in State and other schools, whilst several already referred to become ornaments
to the society in which they afterwards move. All are well fed and clothed, and appeared to
be happy and grateful for their benefits. Many of the girls are married from the institution,
the mode of proceeding being one which is not quite consonant with our English notions on the
subject. A teacher or some other young man applies to the committee for an introduction to
a suitable girl, and if they are satisfied with his respectability and his means of maintaining
a wife, they ascertain which of the girls desires to be married, and after the young couple
have met twice or three times, if they like each other a marriage is negotiated (just as in
the case of the royal families of Europe)! The marriage takes place in the Asyle, the bride
receiving her trousseau and a very respectable little dowry, and the event is always the occasion
of great rejoicing, in which Dr. Davila does not fail to take a prominent part. These marriages,
he told us, have in nearly every case turned out happy ones, far more frequently in proportion
to their number than similar events outside of the institution.

The teachers in the Asyle Hélène are fairly well paid, the higher class receiving about 50l.
per annum, board and lodging; but this is by no means the case with school-teachers generally
in Roumania. We closed our ears to a great many things that savoured of scandal during our
visit to the country, but this was one thing which it was impossible to ignore. So wretched
indeed is the pay of the State teachers that they push on the children of those parents who
give them employment as private tutors in order to eke out a livelihood, to the neglect of
the other scholars.

The Asyle Hélène is supported partly by endowments and partly by State aid, and is managed
by a committee. In connection therewith is also a boys' school at Penteleimon, founded by the
Ghika family, and remodelled by King Charles in 1868, to which a hospital of invalids is attached.

The girls' training school of the State at Bucarest is an admirable institution, presided over
by an accomplished and energetic lady, who expressed great regret that the want of sufficient
funds prevented them from competing with the Asyle Hélène, which is acknowledged to be of a
higher order.

There is also a German 'Realschule' in Bucarest, founded by a benevolent German, at which the
teaching is all that can be desired; but as to the State normal school for young men intended
as country teachers--well, we refrain from expressing any opinion of our own. A learned friend
hinted something about the application of dynamite to the whole concern; and if it could be
done without injury to human life, perhaps that would be the best course to adopt.

The one fact in connection with the state of education in Roumania, however, which forces itself
upon our notice, is the question of teaching the youth of the country at home.

Primary instruction is sure to progress; it rests to a large extent with the Government, and
in the course of time teachers will be forthcoming to carry out the excellent system in its
integrity; but as to applied science and higher education generally, that depends upon parents
themselves; and, modifying a well-known saying, it resolves itself into the question of 'Roumanians
for Roumania, or Roumanians for France?'

III.

And this reminds us of a matter to which we must make a brief reference, though it will be
more fully treated hereafter, namely, the ethnographical character of the people of Roumania;
for whilst it is unfortunate that in practical everyday life and in politics they do not at
present rely sufficiently upon their own internal resources, there is no doubt that theoretically
they are very sensitive and proud of their nationality. To a stranger visiting the country
for a brief period this is the most perplexing question of all; but the perusal of its history,
and a careful consideration of the opinions of well-known writers, bring into prominence certain
facts which cannot fail to be interesting. From the number of tribes and nationalities by which
the country has at various times been overrun, it is impossible for an unprejudiced thinker
to come to any other conclusion than that, like ourselves, the Roumanians are a mixed race,
although the Latin undoubtedly predominates; and to the evidence of history may be added that
of the language and customs of the country. The language not only presents a variety arising
out of the domination of the various races, but in some respects indicates the nature of that
domination, and the customs have a like significance. As a general rule the Roumanian language
is derived from the Latin, but there are many words of Turkish, modern Greek, Polish, and Hungarian
or Magyar origin. Amongst the Latin words are the names of many localities and towns which
have evidently existed since the Roman period, as witness:--

  Latin                    Roumanian                   English
Danubius                 Dunărea                     Danube
Porata                   Prutu                       Pruth
Ardiscus                 Argesu                      Ardges
Alutus                   Oltu                        Olto
Turris Severi            Turnu-Severinu              Turn Severin
Nicopolis                Nicopolu                    Nicopolis
Caracalla                Caracalu                    Caracal
Dravus                   Drava                       Drave
Carpates                 Carpati                     Carpathians

Then, again, amongst common names of things and qualities there are objects which could not
change, such as parts of the body, well-known animals of all ages, &c., as for example:--

  Latin                    Roumanian                   English[67]
Aqua                     Apa                         Water
Aurum                    Auru                        Gold
Ferrum                   Fer                         Iron
Barbatus                 Bărbatu                     A (bearded) man
Caput                    Cap                         Head
Manus                    Mână                        Hand
Nasus                    Nas                         Nose
Vena                     Vina                        Vein
Os                       Os                          Bone
Oculus                   Ochiu                       Eye
Digitus                  Deget                       Finger
Pes                      Picior                      Foot
Pectus                   Pept                        Breast
Canis                    Câne                        Dog
Piscis                   Pesce                       Fish
Dominus                  Domnu                       Lord
Umbra                    Umbră                       Shade
Frigidus                 Frigu                       Cold
Calidus                  Caldu                       Warm
Albus                    Alb                         White
Niger                    Negru                       Black
Casa                     Casa                        A cottage

and so on through the whole vocabulary of common things and attributes.

On the other hand, when we come to examine the words of barbarian origin, we find that they
relate to the character of the dominant race and their rule over the natives. If we take, for
example, the words of Magyar or Hungarian origin, we find them to denote war, conquest, mining,
taxation, punishment, &c., such as baia, mine; bănui, repent, rue; bereǔ, a wood; bicao, fetters
(on the feet); *bir, poll-tax; birâu, a judge; bitangu, wandering about; bucni, to strike;
buzdugány, war-club; cătănie, soldiers, soldiers' habits; cheltúi, to give or spend lavishly;
făgădău, drink-shop; giulus, the Reichstag, or national assembly; hodnogiǔ, lieutenant (from
had, war); hotar, boundary; *lanțĭǔ, chain; odorbireu, headsman; *tábără, camp, war, army;
varda, watch-house; and so on.[68]

Besides these words and phrases derived from the Latin and barbarian languages, there are others
relating to ecclesiastical matters imported from the Greek; indeed, an examination of the language
is itself an interesting historical study, and if now we turn to the arts and customs of the
Roumanians, we find the same interesting relations with her past history.

Of the music of the Laoutari we have already spoken. It is weird and plaintive, and no one
who has listened attentively to the airs played by some of those bands can have failed to be
struck with their 'telling' character, how they give vent alternately to feelings of joy and
sorrow, of mourning and rejoicing, and, like the music of Poland, &c., call to mind the conquered
condition of the people in the past. As with the music, so with the dances. A writer, to whom
we shall refer later on, M. Opitz, described the 'Hora,' the national dance of the Roumanians,
as being illustrative of their conquered condition, and a recent acute observer has left us
his impressions on the same subject.

     'I remember one dance (says he) of which I forget the name, but
     which pleased me exceedingly. After the dancers had gone one or two
     paces in pairs in a circle, the men separated from the women. The
     latter moved singly round the men, as though they were seeking some
     object dear to them. The men then drew together and moved their
     feet like marching soldiers; next using their long sticks, they
     made irregular springs and uttered loud cries, as though they were
     engaged in battle. The women wandered about like shadows. At last
     the men with joyful gestures rushed towards them as though they had
     found them after great danger, led them back into the circle, and
     danced with joy and animation. Here we see how mighty is tradition.
     This dance is a complete poem! Who knows of what long-forgotten
     incursion of the barbarians it is a reminiscence?'[69]

From those few illustrations it will be seen how the language and customs of Roumania are interwoven
with her past history. We have but touched the fringe of the subject; but that it is a fertile
source of interesting study and research we are convinced, and therefore recommend those who
are able to follow it up to give it their attention.[70]

[Footnote 67: It may be interesting to philologists to consider the derivations of the English
names of these common things, and compare them with the Roumanian; the preponderance of the
Anglo-Saxon element in the one and the Latin in the other is very apparent.]

[Footnote 68: Das Magyarische im Romänischen, Roesler, Appendix, p. 346. We have been compelled
to translate Roesler's German into English for the significations, and the sense may thus have
been changed or lost; he is therefore not responsible for such errors. The words marked with
an asterisk are the most striking for our purpose, and they are in constant use in Roumania.]

[Footnote 69: A. de Gerando, Siebenbürgen und seine Bewohner, p. 213. Lorck, Leipsig, 1845.]

[Footnote 70: Most of the works on Roumania deal with the question. Ozanne (cap. xi.) has a
few remarks on the subject; Wilkinson (appendix iv. p. 201) gives along list of words derived
from Latin, Italian, modern Greek, and Turkish roots, but the Roumanian words are since changed;
Vaillant, Obedenare, Neigebaur, Henke, Pic, Roesler, all treat the subject more or less fully.
The chief authorities in Roumanian are Hasdeu, Ubicini, and Lauriani.]

CHAPTER VIII.

JUDICIAL AND PENAL.

     The jurisprudence of the Constitution--Roumanian courts--The Code
     Napoléon--Complaints of patronage--The penal system--Capital
     punishment abolished--History and effect of the
     abolition--Statistics--The prison system--Abuses--Enumeration of
     prisons--Employment of convicts--Ornamental art amongst
     them--Objects made by them--Absence of educational
     measures--Criminal statistics (and note)--Visit to the
     'intermediate' prison of Vakareschti--An old monastery--Description
     of the prison--Scene in the court-yard--Untried prisoners in
     fetters--Promiscuous intercourse of prisoners--Mischievous
     effects--Views of a 'juge d'instruction' concerning the
     system--Various classes of prisoners--Lenient treatment of
     them--Partial employment--Safeguards against mutiny--Visit to the
     penal salt mine of Doftana (or Telega)--Former treatment of
     prisoners--A lingering death--Present treatment--Conditions of
     penal servitude--Compared with work of our
     colliers--Abuses--Descent into the mine--Its condition--Unearthly
     sounds and sights--Enormous salt cave--Floor of the cave--Convicts
     at work in chains--Mode of excavating and raising salt--Lighting
     the mine for visitors--Return to the surface--Visit to the
     penitentiary--Its discreditable condition--Alleged frauds upon
     convicts--General mild treatment of criminals in
     Roumania--Utilisation of convict labour--Comparison of cost and
     results of systems in Roumania and England--Favourable to Roumania.

I.

As in the case of education, so, too, in regard to its judicial and penal system, the Constitution
of Roumania contains many admirable provisions (articles 13, 18, 104, 105, &c.) for the maintenance
of right and the suppression of wrong-doing. Equal rights, ordinary tribunals, speedy trial
by jury, abolition of death punishment, these are the excellent principles upon which the judicial
system is based; but neither there, nor for that matter in any country, are they completely
put into practice. There is one Court of Cassation with sections, and a Court of Accounts at
Bucarest, Courts of Appeal at Bucarest, Jassy, Craiova, and Focsany, and minor tribunals in
the chief town of each district. The French Code of Jurisprudence is adopted, with modifications
which would not interest our readers; but the penal system is somewhat unique, and is well
worthy of a closer study and consideration. Of the miserable accommodation for the exercise
of judicial authority in Bucarest we have already spoken in describing the capital. Lawsuits
are very tedious; whether more so than in England we are unable to say. Great complaint exists
of patronage in the appointment of judges, most of whom are comparatively young men and political
partisans. This it is proposed to remedy by what would practically be popular election; whether
the cure would be any better than the disease is questionable. The penal system, as we found
it carried out in Roumania, is mild, utilitarian, and slovenly; and if all that was told us
be true, we fear we must add that it is by no means free from corruption.

The chief points of interest to Englishmen are the absence of capital punishment and the substitution
of forced labour for life, or for a long term of years, and the utilisation of penal labour
in the salt mines and elsewhere. Capital punishment ceased de facto in 1852; for although it
was not legally abolished, neither the then ruler, Prince Stirbey, nor his successor, Prince
Couza, who governed the joint Principalities, would sign a death-warrant. It was legally abrogated
in 1865, and the Constitution of 1866 declares that it cannot be re-established, excepting
for military offences. No increase, but rather a diminution, of capital crimes has taken place
since the change was effected; for although the population has doubled in the towns, where
homicidal crime is most frequent, the number of offences has not materially increased. The
following figures[71] prove this statement:--

Total Committals and Convictions for Homicide.

+------+------------+-------------+------+------------+-------------+ | Year | Committals |
Convictions | Year | Committals | Convictions | +------+------------+-------------+------+------------+-------------+
| 1869 |    248     |     185     | 1874 |    258     |    167      | | 1870 |    249     |
154     | 1875 |    236     |    169      | | 1871 |    267     |     140     | 1876 |    386
|    250      | | 1872 |    327     |     204     | 1877 |    307     |    187      | | 1873
|    455     |     258     |      |            |             | +------+------------+-------------+------+------------+-------------+

The punishment for murder with malice aforethought is now penal servitude for life, other phases
of homicide five to twenty years, in both cases mine labour. In cases of infanticide, if the
offspring is illegitimate it ranks as manslaughter. The following is a condensed summary, with
brief comments of our own in parenthesis, of a report on the prison system which was kindly
furnished to us by the Roumanian Inspector of Prisons, a zealous, well-meaning, and most courteous
official, as are all Roumanian officials.

[Footnote 71: Reports on Laws of Foreign Countries, presented to the House of Commons, 1881.]

II.

The penitentiaries are divided into two classes, 'preventive' and 'central.' In the central
prisons three kinds of punishment exist, forced labour, confinement called 'reclusion,' and
correction. The men condemned to forced labour work in the mines (in what manner we shall see
presently) during the daytime, and at night they sleep above ground in the prison. On Sundays
and fête-days they do no work. The product of the labour of the convicts belongs of right to
the State, but in order to encourage the prisoners three-tenths is given to them. (We may at
once say that this is not faithfully carried into practice, as we know from personal enquiry
that many of them are compelled to expend their earning to secure the common necessaries of
life.) Aged and feeble persons are transferred to the prison of Cozia, where they weave, &c.
The prisoners condemned to 'reclusion' work in tanneries and ropewalks, as for example in the
prison of Margineni, and they are entitled to four-tenths of the products of their labour.
In the correctional prisons the convicts cultivate the soil, make bricks, &c., and are entitled
to half their wages. In all the prisons the convicts are permitted to employ their leisure
time in making articles of use or ornament from materials furnished to them by the authorities,
which are sold to visitors, and the State gives them a proportion of the fruits of their industry.
(These articles we found to be beautifully made. They consist of egg-cups, paper-knives, forks,
spoons, &c., carved in wood and resembling similar objects made in Switzerland and the Black
Forest. One prisoner had made a tobacco-box of dough, painted and decorated it with artificial
flowers of the same material, so that it was not distinguishable from porcelain; another had
forged an axe-blade of steel, etched the surface and fixed it upon a polished ebony rod with
a terminal spike, forming a miniature ice-axe, and so forth.)

Religious service is provided for the convicts, but so far as we could learn no educational
means whatever, although, according to various reports which were handed to us, by far the
larger proportion of the prisoners are Roumanians who can neither read nor write.[72]

The total number of persons, men and women, confined in the sixteen State prisons in Roumania
in 1880, including untried offenders, was 5,252, or about one per thousand of the whole population.
Of these 850 were undergoing forced labour in the mines, and 2,491 were imprisoned for less
serious offences. Only 265 were minors, and about 100 or 150 women. A strange contrast to our
criminal statistics. Besides the inmates of State prisons there were 1,665 persons confined
in the district prisons on January 1, 1881, who had been convicted of minor offences.

[Footnote 72: In 1874 the Assize Courts had judged in all 1,493 persons (1,441 men and 52 women).
Of these there were:

|Peasants  961|Roumanians      1,394|Above twenty years of age    1,303| |Artisans  186|All
other nations  99|Above sixteen and under twenty 153| |Traders    54|                     |Under
sixteen                   11| |Officials  60|                     |Age unknown            
26| |Sundries  232|                     |                                  | |            
|                     |                                  | |        |                |    
| |        1,493|                1,493|                             1,493|

In looking over the statistics given to us (by authorities) we found several small errors.
In the main, however, they appear to be correct.]

III.

