When the last word was spoken, and the neighbors had gone away over the mountains and through
the woods to their homes, Aunt Mollie with her motherly arm about the girl, said, "Come, honey;
you're our girl now. As long as you stay in the hills, you shall stay with us." And Old Matt
added, "You're the only daughter we've got, Sammy; and we want you a heap worse than you know."

When Sammy told them that she was not going to the city to live, they cried in answer, "Then
you shall be our girl always," and they took her home with them to the big log house on the ridge.

For a week after that night at the Lane cabin, Pete was not seen. When at last, he did appear,
it was to the shepherd on the hill, and his voice and manner alarmed Dad. But the boy's only
reply to Mr. Howitt's question was, "Pete knows; Pete knows." Then in his own way he told something
that sent the shepherd to Young Matt, and the two followed the lad to a spot where the buzzards
were flying low through the trees.

By the shreds of clothing and the weapons lying near, they knew that the horrid thing, from
which as they approached, carrion birds flapped their wings in heavy flight, was all that remained
of the giant, Wash Gibbs.

Many facts were brought out at the trial of the outlaws and it was made clear that Jim Lane
had met his death at the hands of Wash Gibbs, just at the beginning of the attack, and that
Gibbs himself had been wounded a moment later by one of the attacking posse.

Thus does justice live even in the hills.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

ANOTHER STRANGER.

Mr. Matthews and his son first heard of the stranger through Lou Gordon, the mail carrier,
who stopped at the mill on his way to Flag with the week's mail.

The native rode close to the shed, and waited until the saw had shrieked its way through the
log of oak, and the carriage had rattled back to first position. Then with the dignity belonging
to one of his station, as a government officer, he relieved his overcharged mouth of an astonishing
quantity of tobacco, and drawled, "Howdy, men."

"Howdy, Lou," returned Young Matt from the engine, and Old Matt from the saw.

"Reckon them boards is fer a floor in Joe Gardner's new cabin?"

"Yes," returned Old Matt; "we ought to got 'em out last week, but seems like we couldn't get
at it with the buryin' an' all."

"'Pears like you all 'r gettin' mighty proud in this neighborhood. PUNCHEON floors USED t'
be good enough fer anybody t' dance on. Be a buildin' board houses next, I reckon."

Mr. Matthews laughed, "Bring your logs over to Fall Creek when you get ready to build, Lou;
we'll sure do you right."

The representative of the government recharged his mouth. "'Lowed as how I would," he returned.
"I ain't one o' this here kind that don't want t' see no changes. Gov'ment's all th' time makin'
'provements. Inspector 'lowed last trip we'd sure be a gettin' mail twice a week at Flag next
summer. This here's sure bound t' be a big country some day.

"Talkin' 'bout new fangled things, though, men! I seed the blamdest sight las' night that ever
was in these woods, I reckon. I gonies! Hit was a plumb wonder!" Kicking one foot from the
wooden stirrup and hitching sideways in the saddle, he prepared for an effort.

"Little feller, he is. Ain't as tall as Preachin' Bill even, an' fat! I gonies! he's fat as
a possum 'n 'simmon time. HE don't walk, can't; just naturally waddles on them little duck
legs o' hisn. An' he's got th' prettiest little ol' face; all red an' white, an' as round's
a walnut; an' a fringe of th' whitest hair you ever seed. An' clothes! Say, men." In the pause
the speaker deliberately relieved his overcharged mouth. The two in the mill waited breathlessly.
"Long tailed coat, stove pipe hat, an' cane with a gold head as big as a 'tater. 'Fo' God,
men, there ain't been ary such a sight within a thousand miles of these here hills ever. An'
doin's! My Lord, a'mighty!"

The thin form of the native doubled up as he broke into a laugh that echoed and re-echoed through
the little valley, ending in a wild, "Whoop-e-e-e. Say! When he got out of th' hack last night
at th' Forks, Uncle Ike he catched sight o' him an' says, says he t' me, 'Ba thundas! Lou,
looky there! Talk 'bout prosperity. I'm dummed if there ain't ol' Santa Claus a comin' t' th'
Forks in th' summa time. 'Ba thundas! What!'

"An' when Santa come in, he--he wanted--Now what d' you reckon he wanted? A BATH! Yes, sir-e-e.
Dad burn me, 'f he didn't. A bath! Whoop-e-e, you ought t' seen Uncle Ike! He told him, 'Ba
thundas!' he could give him a bite to eat an' a place to sleep, but he'd be pisined bit by
rattlers, clawed by wild cats, chawed by the hogs, et by buzzards, an' everlastin'ly damned
'fore he'd tote water 'nough fer anybody t' swim in. 'Ba thundas! What!'

"What's he doin' here?" asked Mr. Matthews, when the mountaineer had recovered from another
explosion.

Lou shook his head, as he straightened himself in the saddle. "Blame me 'f I kin tell. Jest
wouldn't tell 't all last night. Wanted a BATH. Called Uncle Ike some new fangled kind of a
savage, an' th' old man 'lowed he'd show him. He'd sure have him persecuted fer 'sultin' a
gov'ment servant when th' inspector come around. Yes he did. Oh, thar was doin's at the Forks
last night!"

Again the mail carrier's laugh echoed through the woods.

"Well, I must mosey along. He warn't up this mornin' when I left. Reckon he'll show up 'round
here sometime 'fore sun down. Him an' Uncle Ike won't hitch worth a cent an' he'll be huntin'
prouder folks. I done told th' old man he'd better herd him fer a spell, fer if he was t' get
loose in these woods, there wouldn't be nary deer er bear left come Thanksgivin' time. Uncle
Ike said 'Ba thundas!' he'd let me know that he warn't runnin' no dummed asylum. He 'lowed
he was postmaster, 'Ba thundas!' an' had all he could do t' keep th' dad burned gov'ment straight."

Late that afternoon Lou's prophecy was fulfilled. A wagon going down the Creek with a load
of supplies for the distillery stopped at the mill shed and the stranger began climbing carefully
down over the wheels. Budd Wilson on his high seat winked and nodded at Mr. Matthews and his
son, as though it was the greatest joke of the season.

"Hold those horses, driver. Hold them tight; tight, sir."

"Got 'em, Mister," responded Budd promptly. The mules stood with drooping heads and sleepy
eyes, the lines under their feet.

The gentleman was feeling carefully about the hub of the wheel with a foot that, stretch as
he might, could not touch it by a good six inches.

"That's right, man, right," he puffed. "Hold them tight; tight. Start now, break a leg sure,
sure. Then what would Sarah and the girls do? Oh, blast it all, where is that step? Can't stay
here all day. Bring a ladder. Bring a high chair, a table, a box, a big box, a--heh--heh--Look
out, I say, look out! Blast it all, what do you mean?" This last was called forth by Young
Matt lifting the little man bodily to the ground, as an ordinary man would lift a child.

To look up at the young giant, the stranger tipped back his head, until his shining silk hat
was in danger of falling in the dirt. "Bless my soul, what a specimen! What a specimen!" Then
with a twinkle in his eye, "Which one of the boys are you, anyway?"

At this the three mountaineers roared with laughter. With his dumpy figure in the long coat,
and his round face under the tall hat, the little man was irresistible. He fairly shone with
good humor; his cheeks were polished like big red apples; his white hair had the luster of
silver; his blue eyes twinkled; his silk hat glistened; his gold watch guard sparkled; his
patent leathers glistened; and the cane with the big gold head gleamed in the sunlight.

"That's him, Doc," called the driver. "That's the feller what wallered Wash Gibbs like I was
a tellin' ye. Strongest man in the hills he is. Dad burn me if I believe he knows how strong
he is."

"Doc--Doc--Dad burned--Doc," muttered the stranger. "What would Sarah and the girls say!" He
waddled to the wagon, and reached up one fat hand with a half dollar to Budd, "Here, driver,
here. Get cigars with that; cigars, mind you, or candy. I stay here. Mind you don't get anything
to drink; nothing to drink, I say."

Budd gathered up the reins and woke the sleepy mules with a vigorous jerk. "Nary a drink, Doc;
nary a drink. Thank you kindly all the same. Got t' mosey 'long t' th' still now; ought t'
o' been there hour ago. 'f I can do anything fer you, jest le' me know. I live over on Sow
Coon Gap, when I'm 't home. Come over an' visit with me. Young Matt there'll guide you."

As he watched the wagon down the valley, the stranger mused. "Doc--Doc--huh. Quite sure that
fellow will buy a drink; quite sure."

When the wagon had disappeared, he turned to Mr. Matthews and his son; "According to that fellow,
I am not far from a sheep ranch kept by a Mr. Howitt. That's it, Mr. Daniel Howitt; fine looking
man, fine; brown eyes; great voice; gentleman, sir, gentleman, if he is keeping sheep in this
wilderness. Blast it all, just like him, just like him; always keeping somebody's sheep; born
to be a shepherd; born to be. Know him?"

At mention of Mr. Howitt's name, Young Matt had looked at his father quickly. When the stranger
paused, he answered, "Yes, sir. We know Dad Howitt. Is he a friend of yourn?"

"Dad--Dad Howitt. Doc and Dad. Well, what would Sarah and the girls say? Friend of mine? Young
man Daniel and David, I am David; Daniel and David lay on the same blanket when they were babies;
played in the same alley; school together same classes; colleged together; next door neighbors.
Know him! Blast it all, where IS this sheep place?"

Again the two woodsmen exchanged glances. The elder Matthews spoke, "It ain't so far from here,
sir. The ranch belongs to me and my son. But Mr. Howitt will be out on the hills somewhere
with the sheep now. You'd better go home with us and have supper, and the boy will take you
down this evenin'."

"Well, now, that's kind, sir; very kind, indeed. Man at the Postoffice is a savage, sir; blasted,
old incorrigible savage. My name is Coughlan; Dr. David Coughlan, of Chicago; practicing physician
for forty years; don't do anything now; not much, that is. Sarah and the girls won't let me.
Your name, sir?"

"Grant Matthews. My boy there has the same. We're mighty glad to meet any friend of Dad's,
I can tell you. He's sure been a God's blessin' to this neighborhood."

Soon they started homeward, Young Matt going ahead to do the chores, and to tell his mother
of their coming guest, while Mr. Matthews followed more slowly with the doctor. Shortening
his stride to conform to the slow pace of the smaller man, the mountaineer told his guest about
the shepherd; how he had come to them; of his life; and how he had won the hearts of the people.
When he told how Mr. Howitt had educated Sammy, buying her books himself from his meager wages,
the doctor interrupted in his quick way, "Just like him! just like him. Always giving away
everything he earned. Made others give, too. Blast it all, he's cost me thousands of dollars,
thousands of dollars, treating patients of his that never paid a cent; not a cent, sir. Proud,
though; proud as Lucifer. Fine old, family; finest in the country, sir. Right to be proud,
right to be."

Old Matt scowled as he returned coldly, "He sure don't seem that way to us, Mister. He's as
common as an old shoe." And then the mountaineer told how his son loved the shepherd, and tried
to explain what the old scholar's friendship had meant to them.

The stranger ejaculated, "Same old thing; same old trick. Did me that way; does everybody that
way. Same old Daniel. Proud, though; can't help it; can't help it."

The big man answered with still more warmth, "You ought to hear how he talks to us folks when
we have meetin's at the Cove school house. He's as good as any preacher you ever heard; except
that he don't put on as much, maybe. Why, sir, when we buried Jim Lane week before last, everybody
'lowed he done as well as a regular parson."

At this Dr. Coughlan stopped short and leaned against a convenient tree for support, looking
up at his big host, with merriment he could not hide; "Parson, parson! Daniel Howitt talk as
good as a parson! Blast it all! Dan is one of the biggest D. D.'s in the United States; as
good as a parson, I should think so! Why, man, he's my pastor; my pastor. Biggest church, greatest
crowds in the city. Well what would Sarah and the girls say!" He stood there gasping and shaking
with laughter, until Old Matt, finding the ridiculous side of the situation, joined in with
a guffaw that fairly drowned the sound of the little man's merriment.

When they finally moved on again, the Doctor said, "And you never knew? The papers were always
full, always. His real name is--"

"Stop!" Old Matt spoke so suddenly and in such a tone that the other jumped in alarm. "I ain't
a meanin' no harm, Doc; but you oughtn't to tell his name, and--anyway I don't want to know.
Preacher or no preacher, he's a man, he is, and that's what counts in this here country. If
Dad had wanted us to know about himself, I reckon he'd a told us, and I don't want to hear
it until he's ready."

The Doctor stopped short again, "Right, sir; right. Daniel has his reasons, of course. I forgot.
That savage at the Postoffice tried to interrogate me; tried to draw me. I was close; on guard
you see. Fellow in the wagon tried; still on guard. You caught me. Blast it all, I like you!
Fine specimen that boy of yours; fine!"

When they reached the top of the ridge the stranger looked over the hills with exclamations
of delight, "Grand, sir; grand! Wish Sarah and the girls could see. Don't wonder Daniel staid.
That Hollow down there you say; way down there? Mutton--Mutton Hollow? Daniel lives there?
Blast it all; come on, man; come on."

As they drew near the house, Pete came slowly up the Old Trail and met them at the gate.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

OLD FRIENDS.

After supper Young Matt guided the stranger down the trail to the sheep ranch in Mutton Hollow.

When they reached the edge of the clearing, the mountaineer stopped. "Yonder's the cabin, sir,
an' Dad is there, as you can see by the smoke. I don't reckon you'll need me any more now,
an' I'll go back. We'll be mighty glad to see you on the ridge any time, sir. Any friend of
Dad's is mighty welcome in this neighborhood."

"Thank you; thank you; very thoughtful; very thoughtful, indeed; fine spirit, fine. I shall
see you again when Daniel and I have had it out. Blast it all; what is he doing here? Good
night, young man; good-night." He started forward impetuously. Matt turned back toward home.

The dog barked as Dr. Coughlan approached the cabin, and the shepherd came to the open door.
He had been washing the supper dishes. His coat was off, his shirt open at the throat, and
his sleeves rolled above his elbows. "Here, Brave." The deep voice rolled across the little
clearing, and the dog ran to stand by his master's side. Then, as Mr. Howitt took in the unmistakable
figure of the little physician, he put out a hand to steady himself.

"Oh, it's me, Daniel; it's me. Caught you didn't I? Blast it all; might have known I would.
Bound to; bound to, Daniel; been at it ever since I lost you. Visiting in Kansas City last
week with my old friends, the Stewarts; young fellow there, Ollie, put me right. First part
of your name, description, voice and all that; knew it was you; knew it. Didn't tell them,
though; blasted reporters go wild. Didn't tell a soul, not a soul. Sarah and the girls think
I am in Kansas City or Denver. Didn't tell old man Matthews, either; came near, though, very
near. Blast it all; what does it mean? what does it all mean?"

In his excitement the little man spoke rapidly as he hurried toward the shepherd. When he reached
the cabin, the two friends, so different, yet so alike, clasped hands.

As soon as the old scholar could speak, he said, "David, David! To think that this is really
you. You of all men; you, whom I most needed."

"Huh!" grunted the other. "Look like you never needed me less. Look fit for anything, anything;
ten years younger; every bit of ten years. Blast it all; what have you done to yourself? What
have you done?" He looked curiously at the tanned face and rude dress of his friend. "Bless
my soul, what a change! What a change! Told Matthews you were an aristocrat. He wouldn't believe
it. Don't wonder. Doubt it myself, now."

The other smiled at the Doctor's amazement. "I suppose I have changed some, David. The hills
have done it. Look at them!" He pointed to the encircling mountains. "See how calm and strong
they are; how they lift their heads above the gloom. They are my friends and companions, David.
And they have given me of their calmness and strength a little. But come in, come in; you must
be very tired. How did you come?"

The doctor followed him into the cabin. "Railroad, hack, wagon, walked. Postoffice last night.
Man there is a savage, blasted incorrigible savage. Mill this afternoon. Home with your friends
on the ridge. Old man is a gentleman, a gentleman, sir, if God ever made one. His boy's like
him. The mother, she's a real mother; made to be a mother; couldn't help it. And that young
woman, with the boy's name, bless my soul, I never saw such a creature before, Daniel, never!
If I had I--I--Blast it all; I wouldn't be bossed by Sarah and the girls, I wouldn't. See in
that young man and woman what God meant men and women to be. Told them they ought to marry;
that they owed it to the race. You know my ideas, Daniel. Think they will?"

The shepherd laughed, a laugh that was good to hear.

"What's the matter now, Daniel? What is the matter? Have I said anything wrong again? Blast
it all; you know how I always do the wrong thing. Have I?"

"No, indeed, David; you are exactly right," returned Mr. Howitt. "But tell me, did you see
no one else at the house? There is another member of the family."

The doctor nodded. "I saw him; Pete, you mean. Looked him over. Mr. Matthews asked me to. Sad
case, very sad. Hopeless, absolutely hopeless, Daniel."

"Pete has not seemed as well as usual lately. I fear so much night roaming is not good for
the boy," returned the other slowly. "But tell me, how are Sarah and the girls? Still looking
after Dr. Davie, I suppose."

"Just the same; haven't changed a bit; not a bit. Jennie looks after my socks and handkerchiefs;
Mary looks after my shirts and linen; Anna looks after my ties and shoes; Sue looks after my
hats and coats; and Kate looks after the things I eat; and Sarah, Sarah looks after everything
and everybody, same as always. Blast it all! If they'd give me a show, I'd be as good as ever;
good as ever, Daniel. What can a man do; what can a man do, with an only sister and her five
old maid daughters looking after him from morning until night, from morning until night, Daniel?
Tell them I am a full grown man; don't do no good; no good at all. Blast it all; poor old things,
just got to mother something; got to, Daniel."

While he was speaking, his eyes were dancing from one object to another in the shepherd's rude
dwelling, turning for frequent quick glances to Dad himself. "You live here, you? You ought
not, Daniel, you ought not. What would Sarah and the girls say? Blast it all; what do you mean
by it? I ordered you away on a vacation. You disappear. Think you dead; row in the papers,
mystery; I hate mystery. Blast it all; what does it mean, what does it all mean? Not fair to
me, Daniel; not fair."

By this time the little man had worked himself up to an astonishing pitch of excitement; his
eyes snapped; his words came like pistol shots; his ejaculations were genuine explosions. He
tapped with his feet; rapped with his cane; shook his finger; and fidgeted in his chair. "We
want you back, Daniel. I want you. Church will want you when they know; looking for a preacher
right now. I come after you, Daniel. Blast it all, I'll tell Sarah and the girls, and they'll
come after you, too. Chicago will go wild when they know that Daniel Howitt Cha--"

"Stop!" The doctor bounced out of his chair. The shepherd was trembling, and his voice shook
with emotion. "Forgive me, David. But that name must never be spoken again, never. My son is
dead, and that name died with him. It must be forgotten."

The physician noted his friend's agitation in amazement. "There, there, Daniel. I didn't mean
to. Thought it didn't matter when we were alone. I--I--Blast it all! Tell me Daniel, what do
you mean by this strange business, this very strange business?"

A look of mingled affection, regret and pain, came into the shepherd's face, as he replied,
"Let me tell you the story, David, and you will understand."

When he had finished, Mr. Howitt asked gently, "Have I not done right, David? The boy is gone.
It was hard, going as he did. But I am glad, now, for Old Matt would have killed him, as he
would kill me yet, if he knew. Thank God, we have not also made the father a murderer. Did
I not say rightly, that the old name died with Howard? Have I not done well to stay on this
spot and to give my life to this people?"

"Quite right, Daniel; quite right. You always are. It's me that goes wrong; blundering, bumping,
smashing into things. Blast it all! I--I don't know what to say. B--B--Blast it all!"

The hour was late when the two men finally retired for the night. Long after his heavy, regular
breathing announced that the doctor was sleeping soundly, the shepherd lay wide awake, keenly
sensitive to every sound that stirred in the forest. Once he arose from his bed, and stepping
softly left the cabin, to stand under the stars, his face lifted to the dark summit of Old
Dewey and the hills that rimmed the Hollow. And once, when the first light of day came over
the ridges, he went to the bunk where his friend lay, to look thoughtfully down upon the sleeping
man.

Breakfast was nearly ready when Dr. Coughlan awoke. The physician saw at once by the worn and
haggard look on his friend's face that his had been a sleepless night. It was as though all
the pain and trouble of the old days had returned. The little doctor muttered angrily to himself
while the shepherd was gone to the spring for water. "Blast it all, I'm a fool, a meddlesome,
old fool. Ought to have let well enough alone. No need to drag him back into it all again;
no need. Do no good; no good at all."

When the morning meal was finished, Mr. Howitt said, "David, will you think me rude, if I leave
you alone to-day? The city pavement fits one but poorly to walk these hills of mine, and you
are too tired after your trip and the loss of your regular sleep to go with me this morning.
Stay at the ranch and rest. If you care to read, here are a few of your favorites. Will you
mind very much? I should like to be alone to-day, David."

"Right, Daniel, right. I understand. Don't say another word; not a word. Go ahead. I'm stiff
and sore anyway; just suit me."

The shepherd arranged everything for his friend's comfort, putting things in readiness for
his noonday meal, and showing him the spring. Then, taking his own lunch, as his custom was,
he went to the corral and released the sheep. The doctor watched until the last of the flock
was gone, and he could no longer hear the tinkle of the bells and the bark of the dog.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

I AIN'T NOBODY NO MORE.

With the coming of the evening, the shepherd returned to his guest. Dr. Coughlan heard first
the bells on the leaders of the flock, and the barking of the dog coming nearer and nearer
through the woods. Soon the sheep appeared trooping out of the twilight shadows into the clearing;
then came Brave followed by his master.

The countenance of the old scholar wore again that look of calm strength and peace that had
marked it before the coming of his friend. "Have you had a good rest, David? Or has your day
been long and tiresome? I fear it was not kind of me to leave you alone in this wilderness."

The doctor told how he had passed the time, reading, sleeping and roaming about the clearing
and the nearby woods. "And you," he said, looking the other over with a professional eye, "you
look like a new man; a new man, Daniel. How do you do it? Some secret spring of youth in the
wilderness? Blast it all, wish you would show me. Fool Sarah and the girls, fool them, sure."

"David, have you forgotten the prescription you gave me when you ordered me from the city?
You took it you remember from one of our favorite volumes."

"David, I never understood until the past months why the Master so often withdrew alone into
the wilderness. There is not only food and medicine for one's body; there is also healing for
the heart and strength for the soul in nature. One gets very close to God, David, in these
temples of God's own building."

Dr. Coughlan studied his old friend curiously; "Change; remarkable change in you! Remarkable!
Never said a thing like that in all your life before, never."

The shepherd smiled, "It's your prescription, Doctor," he said.

They retired early that evening, for the physician declared that his friend must need the rest.
"Talk to-morrow," he said; "all day; nothing else to do." He promptly enforced his decision
by retiring to his own bunk, leaving the shepherd to follow his example. But not until the
doctor was sure that his friend was sleeping soundly did he permit himself to sink into unconsciousness.

It was just past midnight, when the shepherd was aroused by the doctor striking a match to
light the lamp. As he awoke, he heard Pete's voice, "Where is Dad? Pete wants Dad."

Dr. Coughlan, thinking it some strange freak of the boy's disordered brain, and not wishing
to break his friend's much needed rest, was trying in low tones to persuade the boy to wait
until morning.

"What does Pete want?" asked the shepherd entering the room.

"Pete wants Dad; Dad and the other man. They must sure go with Pete right quick."

"Go where with Pete? Who told Pete to come for Dad?" asked Mr. Howitt.

"HE told Pete. Right now, he said. And Pete he come. 'Course I come with him. Dad must go,
an' the other man too, 'cause he said so."

In sickness or in trouble of any kind the people for miles around had long since come to depend
upon the shepherd of Mutton Hollow. The old man turned now to the doctor. "Someone needs me,
David. We must go with the boy."

"But, Daniel, Daniel! Blast it all! The boy's not responsible. Where will he take us? Where
do you want us to go, boy?"

"Not me; not me; nobody can't go nowhere, can they? You go with Pete, Mister."

"Yes, yes; go with Pete; but where will Pete take us?" persisted the Doctor.

"Pete knows."

"Now, look at that, Daniel! Look at that. Blast it all; we ought not go; not in the night this
way. What would Sarah and the girls say?" Notwithstanding his protests, the doctor was ready
even before the shepherd. "Take a gun, Daniel; take a gun, at least," he said.

The other hesitated, then asked, "Does Pete want Dad to take a gun?"

