I laughed at this, and then we fell to talking of our life in Belfield. I was not a loquacious
fellow, but something about Mr. Floyd unloosed my tongue, and after describing our quiet household
ways I spoke freely of the Lenoxes and of Jack and Harry. The two boys were cousins, and Harry,
having neither father nor mother, lived with the Holts, who were the rich people of our village.
My two friends loved me dearly, but still they were more to each other than I could be to either,
for they shared the same room, ate at the same table, and had grown into an intimacy wonderful
and rare even among brothers. They were Damon and Pythias, Orestes and Pylades; but indeed
I doubted if anything in poetry, history or tradition had ever equalled this beautiful and
complete friendship. I could not be jealous of it, because each gave me all I needed; and even
if, at times, I felt the pang of being a little outside their world, my isolation was made
sacred to me by the recollection of the brother I had lost, in whom some time, somewhere, I
should regain everything.

Mr. Floyd had a way of listening which made me yearn to tell him every insignificant detail
of my life. I knew that he was a man of national reputation, but I hardly cared for that, since
he was the pleasantest companion I had ever met. I found myself gossiping to him about our
village worthies, making him laugh heartily at their sayings passed into tradition and fable
among us boys; for our one-eyed shoemaker and our corpulent grocer, like many other country
wits to fortune and to fame unknown, surpassed either Douglas Jerrold or Sydney Smith in quip
and drollery. And I did not omit George Lenox, for all Belfield except his wife was in the
secret of his affairs, and they were our crowning joke, in which poor George himself joined
merrily, although the story was so against himself.

"That girl of his is remarkably pretty," said Mr. Floyd. "Is he, then, so poor? He was well
born, liberally educated, and married in a family of high pretensions."

There could be no doubt but what George Lenox had begun better than other men, with enough
to live on comfortably in city or country, provided he did not think too much of the necessity
for showing his wife that she had not lessened her consequence in marrying him. Nobody could
accuse poor Mr. Lenox now-a-days of ambition, or blame him if, in those early days as now,
that terrible woman had frankly regarded him as an utter nonentity save in his association
with her own destiny. She was a handsome woman, with aquiline nose, a thin, firmly-set mouth,
piercing eyes and a magnificent carriage. She was no longer young when she had accepted Mr.
Lenox, and by what means she had encompassed his subjugation we were never told: he always
shook his head when he alluded to his courtship. "A fellow is wax in a woman's hands," he had
sometimes remarked darkly. But after his marriage he had seemed to acquiesce in his wife's
belief in her high individual value to the world in general and himself in particular, and
had given her the best of everything. Mrs. Lenox knew how to spend money, she had a house in
New York and a villa in Belfield; she had running accounts with tradesmen; and not only gave
dinner-parties, balls and receptions, but out-dressed her circle with a sort of gorgeous superfluity
which made her intimates experience the ignominy of their inferiority. Mr. Lenox resigned himself
to the irresistible current of his wife's will, and if he felt inward doubts silenced them
as suggestions of morbid distrust in the discretion of a woman whom he knew to be virtuous,
and whose price was so much above rubies that sordid calculations ought not to be mentioned
in the same breath with her. After a time, however, not even his high faith in the necessity
of agreeable issues where she was concerned could blind him to the fact that he had many debts
and but a few thousand dollars. He at once invested these thousands in an enterprise which
was shortly to make all those interested in it millionaires. But if any one made money out
of it, it was not George Lenox, who suddenly found himself reduced to be a pensioner upon his
wife, who had twelve thousand dollars invested in railway stock. They removed to their little
Gothic cottage in Belfield, and Mrs. Lenox lost what remained of her beauty, her spirits, her
temper, but never her ineradicable pride. Within a year her husband had taken her railway stock,
sold it and invested it in some speculation which failed ignominiously, as any schemes of his
were sure to do. Nothing attracted him which was regulated by average laws of supply answering
a demand: all his undertakings required a miracle, an upheaval of popular ideas, to ensure
success. He never told his wife of this embezzlement of his: when he lost her property he meditated
suicide, and merely staved off the evil day by pretending to pay her dividends regularly; and
for this he twice a year implored the assistance of his uncle, Mr. Raymond. The railroad in
which Mrs. Lenox had invested was a prosperous one, and occasionally declared an additional
stock dividend: it was on these occasions that the reduced lady lost in a degree her usual
air of picturesque gloom--that she roused herself to talk about her family and the glories
of her youth, the éclat and brilliance of her position, which she had never lost until after
marrying her unfortunate husband; and at such times she even regained her courage and made
a round of visits, dropping glazed and ancient cards, and retaining in her feebleness all the
traditions of her majesty. But this epoch of her revived grandeur was set in painful contrast
to poor Lenox's misery. He was commissioned to sell the scrip, which, for him, had no existence,
and thus raise money to deck the family in transient brightness. I fancy that at such times,
without any waste of rhetoric or balancing of expediencies, he was more in love with suicide
than Hamlet or Cato, and that if it had not been for the sympathy and aid of a golden-haired
little girl he would have swallowed his death-potion quietly. Georgy was his firm ally against
her mother, and helped him shrewdly in many a close pinch; and his rich uncle, Mr. Raymond
(Mr. Floyd's father-in-law), rarely refused him provisional aid upon his application, although
he was wise enough to decline helping him in any of his fantastic kite speculations.

"And what sort of a girl is this Miss Georgy?" inquired Mr. Floyd. "Has she been injured at
all by the somewhat exceptional circumstances of her family?"

"Oh no, sir."

"Is she gentle, generous and open in her ways?"

"Gentle, sir--generous?"

"She is remarkably pretty."

I assented eagerly to this observation, and he laughed: "There is no doubt in your mind upon
that point. If she were in all respects a suitable companion for Helen, I would request that
she should be invited to The Headlands. But Tony will find out what she is made of. He will
be a new friend for you."

And he told me about this Antonio Thorpe, who had been under his guardianship for six years.
He was the son of an Englishman who had married a Spanish girl in the West Indies: the lad
was but twelve years old when he was thrown upon the world without parents or near relatives
or suitable provision for his maintenance. The elder Thorpe had been a careless, good-natured
person, without any distrust of his fellows, and not knowing what to do with his son had thrust
him upon Mr. Floyd, who had at some trouble and expense looked after his education. He had
entered college the year before, but his conduct had been a little unsatisfactory to the authorities,
and his guardian had withdrawn him, and now, in some doubt as to the best course to pursue
in regard to his future, wished him to study for a few months quietly at Belfield.

"Your mother will let him visit here, I trust," he went on. "I think he is half a good fellow,
and we must forgive the other half, because his mother was the proudest, vainest, silliest
little Castilian that ever lived. Tony has got a good deal to contend against."

But the drawbacks to Thorpe's advancement were not so patent to my mind on first acquaintance
as his advantages. He had a slight, graceful figure, a little under height, but carried himself
with the dignity of a grandee; his eyes were large, dark and languishing; his complexion was
a pale olive; while his moustache, black and exquisitely pencilled, was a sign of itself of
towering superiority above the rest of us callow youths. That alone would have filled me with envy.

CHAPTER II.

"Ah," exclaimed Mr. Floyd, starting to his feet, "that is your mother, I hope."

I had become too much absorbed in our talk to hear the click of the gate, but now I sprang
up and rushed to the door, and, seeing my mother quietly walking up the path, I ran out bareheaded
into the rain.

"Oh, mother," I cried, "you cannot guess who has come to spend Sunday with us!"

It seemed to me all at once that some thought of him must have been in her mind, for her color
came and went. "I hope it is Cousin James," she replied calmly.

As I took her umbrella from her hand I could see that she was trembling and her lips quivering.
I unclasped her cloak and untied her bonnet, and took them from her: she ungloved her hands
hastily and smoothed her hair as she went along the hall. Mr. Floyd stood facing her as she
entered the sitting-room. "Dear Mary!" said he, and took her in his arms and kissed her.

I felt as if I had been struck a heavy blow. I knew that he had been not only my father's first
cousin, but his nearest and dearest friend as well; but, for all that, it was not easy for
me to see my mother surrendering herself to that caress. But presently, when I saw that she
was crying, I knew that she was thinking only of my father and her long agony of loneliness,
and I forgave them both. When she regained her calmness she called me to her with a timid smile
and a faint blush.

"This is my boy, James," she said, looking up at Mr. Floyd smiling, but with the tears still
on her cheeks. "He is your godson, you remember, and namesake."

"My godson, my namesake, my ward, and my dear friend besides," replied Mr. Floyd, throwing
his arm heavily over my shoulder. "I know him already very well, and I like him more than I
can tell you."

That same old thrill of feeling goes over me now like a wave as I write. As I stood looking
up at him I seemed to grow rich, as if I had suddenly come into my kingdom. I continued to
stand leaning against him as he sat down close beside my mother and talked intimately and freely
with her. I may have felt a little alien and apart at first, for the days they talked of were
the days of long ago, before I could remember. Mr. Floyd's private personal history had been
but one short chapter in his long, full and busy life. He was well past thirty before he had
married Alice Raymond, the only child of a wealthy merchant: she was but seventeen when he
first saw her and fell in love with her. Few people knew whether the twelve short months of
his married life were but as a dream to him now, eleven years later, or whether his scant allusions
to that time came from a shy tenderness for a memory which was his dearest and most sacred
possession. Alice Raymond was but little past eighteen when she died, and even the child she
left behind her had never really belonged to Mr. Floyd, but had grown up at her grandfather's
at The Headlands while her father had assumed the duties of a mission abroad. Life had denied
him little of what men seek as objects in a brilliant and exciting career; but in listening
to him now I felt a certainty that he had been a lonely man, and, if not an unhappy one, that
his mind was tinged at least with a certain melancholy which lay at the root of all his impulses.

My mother seemed to have grown younger in meeting him. She was always the most beautiful of
women to me, with her large, serious brown eyes, her wavy brown hair, her complexion pure and
delicate as a young girl's; and indeed she was but twenty years older than myself, thus at
this date only thirty-four. But while she talked to Mr. Floyd I observed a change in her: her
eyes had lost their pensiveness and calm, and fell before his shyly: the flushes came and went
on her cheeks. He told her again and again that in meeting her he found the first realization
that he had come back to his home: old Mr. Raymond had seemed to be afraid of him, and little
Helen had cried with terror when he first clasped her in his arms and kissed her with unguarded
fondness.

"But that was not strange," observed my mother. "Intimate affection is, after all, a habit.
Now that you have a chance of having your little girl always with you, she will very soon grow
fond of you."

"Oh, but I have no claim to her. She must stay with Mr. Raymond as long as he lives, I suppose.
He loved Alice, but he worships Helen. I robbed him of his child once almost against his will,
and now that he is so old a man I could not have the heart to do it again."

"But she is your own daughter!" cried my mother, half indignantly.

"But I made my mistake ten years ago. Just then I only cared for what lay beneath a fresh grave
at The Headlands: there seemed to be no to-morrow for me--no time when I should get used to
such sorrow and find comfort in any one or anything that took Alice's place. I gave up Helen
then with absolute indifference: now such coldness seems enigmatical to me."

"You ought to have her with you now."

"It could not be. I asked her this morning if she would come with me: she burst into a passion
of weeping, and declared she could not leave her grandfather--that he would die without her;
and I verily believe that he would. Well! well! I have got along for ten years without happiness.
I have a career, while Mr. Raymond, millionaire though he is, has nothing but Helen. If only
my health does not altogether fail!"

"You are not ill, James?"

"The doctors tell me that I have three incurable diseases," returned Mr. Floyd, laughing. "Then
I took cold the moment I landed in this horrible climate. I perfectly realize the truth of
the Psalmist, who declares that we are fearfully and wonderfully made. Physicians dote upon
me: I am an admirable field of research. Some people have the ill taste to die without any
preliminaries, but I shall not give occasion for any painful surprise. Still, I only tell you
this that you may make the most of me. Let me hear about yourself, Mary. If you only knew how
often I have thought of you shut away here from the world in this wretched country place, nothing
near you not utterly foreign to your tastes and your circles of thought!"

My mother's hand stole into mine, and she met my jealous glance and smiled into my face. "Cousin
James does not know what good times we have, does he, Floyd?" said she.

"I forgot for one moment your consolations," said Mr. Floyd. "I saw your boy's mates when I
came in: one of them has a powerful face: he looks like a youthful Cato."

"That is Jack Holt," I cried. "He is like Cato: he is strong, severe, just. Whatever he says
ought to be done we know must be done, even if the heavens fall."

"And the handsome fellow, who is he? Harry Dart? He looks equal to the heroism of all Plutarch's
heroes: he has a beautiful, consecrated face. I hope he will live up to what it tells us now."

Glad and proud although I was to see Mr. Floyd, his coming disturbed me a little. Hitherto
I had accepted my life unquestioningly. We had been poor ever since my father's death, and
my mother's life had become circumscribed and narrowed down to Belfield. It had seemed to me
that no other people in the world were just so happy as my mother and myself. What need had
we of a larger house, when the one stately mansion that I was familiar with appeared to me
a desert, even with all its fairy-land splendors? Jack Holt's father was too rich a man not
to allow his wife all the good things which she coveted, and her parlors, halls and bedrooms
were irrefragable proof of the enormities which may be committed with an utter want of taste
and tens of thousands of dollars. Both Harry and Jack hated the house, and spent every available
moment out of school in our comfortable, well-worn nooks inside and out of doors. My mother
used to play to us at twilight, and sing sweet ballads which gave us a state of mind full of
the blessed misery which youth loves. Then what gay little waltzes used to rattle off from
my mother's fingers! She taught us all to dance, and in the winter dusk we would waltz in turn
with Georgy Lenox, the two of us who could not have her as a partner circling with our arms
about each other's less slender waists. Then the feasts my mother used to cook for us with
her own clever hands have made the greatest banquets seem poor since: she had the gift of performing
every feminine task better than any other woman in the world. In short, I had lived the life
which undoubtedly comes to many a lad who has no father: my mother appeared to have no thought
but of me and my happiness, and not one of my dreams of far-reaching happiness but included
her. I realized enough of the exquisite worth of her devotion to me never to cross her wishes:
an invisible yet insurmountable barrier separated me from any of the grosser faults of boyhood,
for she never let me go from her without her kiss, the clasp of her hand, and her saying, "You
will be a good boy, Floyd?"

Yes, I had been perfectly happy; and, as I say, it disturbed me to have a doubt suggested that
this full, complete existence of mine had not filled my mother's heart as well. Belfield--merely
writing the word "Belfield" has a breezy influence over my mind still. Wherever a man has spent
his boyhood there linger associations of the cool wind of the hill-top, the sound of the sea
audible yet invisible, the hush before a storm, the tumbling of the ice in the river in the
spring freshets, the berries that grew on the edge of the wood, the ecstatic thrill of physical
strength and delight on the playground where he ran "drinking in the wind of his own speed."
But youth is the season not alone of action, but of reverie. Most of our original thinking
is done before we are sixteen: after that we acquire so much of other men's experience that
our thoughts wear the current stamp. We come into our rich inheritance of the world's accumulated
knowledge, and evolve from it the answers to the necessities of our own individual development.
As boys we were not cribbed by any exact logic and hard common sense, which must stretch us
a little later on a Procrustean bed, and we were free to grow as we would and to stand on the
highest level of noble thought and heroic deed. The writers whom we read with avidity were
those who ennobled us: in those days youth was the era of a high romanticism, and our authors
did not enter the actual world which lay about us, giving us pictures of real life, and with
devilish ingenuity teaching us to regard men's actions from the reverse side, and thus detect
ignoble traits as the mainspring of human achievement.

More than forty of us went to school together in the stiff white academy which stood on the
hill surrounded by a quadrangle of straight poplars. We learned many things there--some from
the grim old preceptor, some outside the walls. I had a volume of Plutarch, from which I used
to read stories to the boys as we lay on the grassy slopes in the shade, and I often felt a
tremor in my voice as I read. It seems to me sometimes that the youth of this day lose some
of the grandeur which made our ideals. Our sons read "Oliver Optic" and the magazines, while
we used to thrill over the grand words of the men who have ruled the world. Then my mother's
teaching was simple, direct and wise, and had become incorporated in every action of my will
and impulse of my heart. I was to love and obey my God, never to tell a lie, never to do a
mean action, never to be disloyal to a friend nor unfair to a foe. Still, if Harry and I were
tolerably good, one of the reasons which acted most powerfully to restrain us from committing
faults was our wish to stand well with Jack: he never scolded, never gave advice, but if he
were displeased with our conduct we could not eat or sleep. Once Harry committed a trifling
error--to call it a wickedness seems a grotesque exaggeration now--and Jack did not like it.

"Of course, Harry," he said coldly, "you can do as you please, but I am disappointed in you."

Harry rushed out of doors, and could not be found all night: he slept on the turf beneath his
cousin's window, and the rain drenched him and he took a violent cold.

"You were foolish," observed Jack, smiling coldly.

"But do you forgive me now?"

"I forgive nothing: a bad action is a bad action. But I could not sleep when I did not know
where you were: I got up and studied, for I was so tormented."

But Jack was so equable, so gentle! There was never a trace of harshness in his treatment of
us. Indeed, it was only in his unfailing rectitude that he surpassed us, for, our senior although
he was, he could barely keep up in our classes. Harry was the quickest of the three, but with
a mortal hatred of hard study: he had an easy capacity for mastering knowledge without tedious
assiduity; and, as he was resolved to be a painter, he held all mental acquirements as subsidiary
to his master-passion for gaining dexterity and skill with his pencil. He could have done anything
at his books had he expended any high endeavor, but he always let his chances slip by him,
and allowed me to carry off the prizes which he might far more easily have won. I was by nature
and habit rigidly conscientious, and discontented with myself unless I did my best. I hated
cheap successes, and I was shy of praise, as my performances always fell short of my ideals.
Mine was no studious disposition, and I had plenty of physical inclination to shirk lessons
and lie beneath the forest boughs watching the birds all day; but there were detached lines
that I used to repeat to myself aloud over and over again in lonely places, caring far less
for their meaning than for the immeasurable music of the words.

CHAPTER III.

I could write many chapters about our life at Belfield, and perhaps of all I have to tell nothing
would be so well worth telling. Belfield is a quiet place on the shore of Long Island Sound,
placidly sleeping through the summers and autumns beneath the shadows of its immemorial trees.
We went to school on the hill: below us was our ancient church built in far-off colonial times,
and connected with many a story of Revolutionary times, to which we used to listen greedily:
George Lenox had one of which we never tired.

"My grandfather," said he, "went to church the Sunday after the proclamation of the Declaration
of Independence, and when the clergyman read the prayers for the royal family he stood up in
his pew and cried out that no such prayers must be read in Belfield--that George III.'s name
was no longer the name of our friend, but of our worst enemy. The minister rose and shut up
his prayer-book forthwith, raised his hand and pronounced the benediction, and the church was
closed until the end of the war. We were good Federalists, we were," continued Mr. Lenox, "but
we had one staunch Tory and Churchman in our family. After the church was closed my grandfather's
family used to attend Presbyterian meeting on the hill, close by where your schoolhouse now
stands; but their old dog, Duke, would never go past the church when he followed his master
out on Sunday mornings: he would not go to Presbyterian meeting--not he: he stretched himself
on the great millstone before the closed church-door."

When Jack, Harry and I sat together on the high "back seat" at school we had a good view down
the hill at the weather-stained old church, with its imperishable gilt vane on top of the tall
spire. Often enough our vagrant eyes wandered that way, but not that we cared for green slopes
or colonial church or venerable weathercock. The truth of the matter was, that we oftentimes
saw Georgy Lenox walking along the quiet street under the elms. To tell of our early life in
Belfield, and say nothing of the influence which was already moulding the lives of at least
two of us, would be to give an incomplete and partial picture. I was an imaginative boy, and
Jack was the reverse, yet we were both desperately in love with the same girl. As for Harry,
nobody ever decided what he felt toward her. They continually quarrelled when they were together,
and Harry sometimes took pains to abuse her in her absence: he never read of an unworthy trait
in a woman but he at once pointed its meaning at her. He called us "spoons," etc. for caring
about her, yet, all the same, she must have been invested with an endless store of associations
in his mind, for his portfolio was full of sketches of her; which seemed to furnish his ideals
of feminine beauty. She was not only Rowena, but Rebecca as well (with only a change of complexion),
Helen of Troy and Joan of Arc, Cleopatra and the Madonna, Marie Stuart and Elizabeth Tudor.
Still, Jack and I each felt that he was not one with us in his devotion to her, and we made
no confidences to him respecting her. For Jack and I talked about her incessantly when we were
together: when we saw her in the street below us we nudged each other, and together felt the
thrill, the inextinguishable rapture, of beholding the sunny gleam of her golden hair and her
quick, graceful gait.

We were not rivals. I do not know how the thought of her came to Jack in those early days,
but he had a habit of decision, and I dare say had made up his mind that she was to be his
wife. He had plenty of pocket-money, and could buy her trinkets, ribbons and gloves: I had
no money, and my tribute to her was of flowers and fruits. It was natural to both of us to
offer her all we could; and it was equally natural to her to receive our largesse with a smile
and laughing thanks if it pleased her, and a cool, indifferent shrug of contempt if it failed
to suit her.

