My memorandum book contains such information as to points in the interior of the State as I
can gather from officers, and from any reliable source, to guide me in locating teachers. Some
of these memoranda are: "Garrison withdrawn; school impossible." "No resident federal officer;
a teacher could not be protected." "People much prejudiced; protection cannot be guaranteed."
Such things are said in regard to every place not under northern protection. I think I do not
overstate in saying that I do not know a single northern man in Mississippi who supposes a
colored school possible where there is no federal sword or bayonet. Some northern men do not
regret this fact, perhaps; and this makes their testimony on this point more valuable.

White churches recover their houses of worship which the blacks helped to build, and which
they have repaired extensively during the last two years, and remorselessly turn the blacks
out without any regard to their rights in equity, their feelings, or their religious interests.

I may state here that there is such a general expression of contempt for negro religion, and
such a desire to suppress it, if possible, that it seems as if the whites thought it a piece
of terrible impertinence for the blacks to worship the same God that we do. The white people
also fear, or affect to fear, that opposition to their plans, and even insurrection, will be
hatched at the meetings of colored people. The Nemesis of slavery still holds her whip over
them. From this source arise the occasional reports of intended insurrections; and these reports
are intended, often, to cause the prevention of meetings, at which the colored people may consult
together, and convey information important to them.

I meant to make this letter shorter, but could not. I hope I need not assure you, general,
that I am not conscious that any part of the above comes of enmity to the south. I certainly
should rejoice to see my opinion of the state of feeling in Mississippi falsified by patent facts.

I have the honer to be, general, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH WARREN, Chaplain, State Superintendent of Education.

Major General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 39.

General: I see by the papers of a late date that Dr. Murdoch, of Columbus, Mississippi, has
made a speech at General Howard's office, in which he makes strong promises of the hearty co-operation
of his fellow-citizens in the education of the freedmen in the State. This is signed by half
a dozen citizens purporting to represent the people, and certainly gives us a different idea
of the case from that stated by Dr. Murdoch.

I am, general, very respectfully,

SAMUEL THOMAS, Colonel, Assistant Commissioner for Mississippi.

Major General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 40.

To the Voters of Wilkinson county:

Fellow-Citizens: When I consented, some days ago, to be a candidate for the State convention,
I confess that, with some of my personal friends, I was vain enough to believe that I was sufficiently
well known to the people of Wilkinson county to make it unnecessary for me to publish my political
creed. But, to my surprise, it is rumored, to the prejudice of my humble claim upon your suffrage,
that I am an "unconditional, immediate emancipationist--an abolitionist."

In the freedom of casual, friendly conversation, it is certainly not unreasonable that I may,
as any other man, be misunderstood. I cannot think any of my fellow-citizens capable of misrepresenting
me purposely. But certain it is I am misunderstood if any man believes me to favor the policy
that wrongs and impoverishes my country. It does occur to me, fellow-citizens, that the charity,
at least, if not the good sense of those who know me, would contradict any such insinuation.
True, I only claim to have done my duty, but my record for the last four years, I trust, is
sufficient proof of my fidelity to the interests of the south and all her institutions. Can
any man believe me now in favor of, and ready to advocate, the abolition of an institution
for which I have contended so long, and which I am as fully persuaded to-day, as ever, was
the true status of the negro? Surely not. And, certainly, you who know me will not demand of
me any further assurance than my antecedents afford that I will, as your representative, should
you elect me, "do all and secure all" I could for the best interest of the State, and the rights
and interests of a free people.

I want it distinctly understood that I do not run on "Mr. Burruss's platform," or any other
man's, save my own.

Should you send me to the convention I will go committed, as I think an honest man can only
commit himself, i. e., according to my best judgment, and with an intention to guard all the
blessings we now enjoy, to the extent of my ability, exert myself, as I have said, to secure
all I can for the interest of our State. If I cannot be trusted, then choose some other man,
who may have shown himself hitherto, and is now, more truly your friend, and who is, in your
judgment, more capable of representing you.

W.L. BRANDON.

Wilkinson County, August 6.

No. 41.

OFFICE ACTING ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER BUREAU FREEDMEN, &c., FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Natchez, Miss., September 25, 1865.

General: In obedience to your request, I have the honor to submit the following as the result
of my observations during the past year among freedmen:

The opinion and feeling among the negroes throughout this district, comprising the counties
of Claiborne, Copiah, Lawrence, Covington, Jones, Wayne, Jefferson, Franklin, Pike, Marion,
Perry, Greene, Adams, Wilkinson, Amite, Hancock, Harrison, and Jackson, and Concordia and Teusas
parishes, Louisiana, are almost unanimous on one point, viz: they will remain this year on
their old places for a support, and such remuneration as the crop raised can give them, but
next year they will leave and make other arrangements. They say that they have tried their
old masters, know what they require, and how they will be treated, and that, as they are now
free, they will try some other place and some other way of working. They take this view not
because they are tired of work, or because they want to be idle, but because they are free,
and want to find out in what their freedom consists.

To contend with the results of this opinion will be the great work flung upon the hands of
some one next year. And not only will they have to see that the laborers are properly settled,
but they must provide for the crippled, the helpless and the children. The planters cannot
be made to support those who are too feeble to give any return, and who only remain because
they are too old or too young to get away. What, then, is to become of them?

As to those who can labor, there will be no difficulty--the demand for laborers will far exceed
the supply. The great trouble will be to keep the negro in the State, and to provide assistance
for those who are unable to take care of themselves. Another want to be provided for is that
of education. If we are to have good, industrious, and law-abiding people, we must provide
some means for their education. It is intended to place a teacher in every town in which schools
can be established and protected. From conversations with intelligent citizens, whom I feel
assured, represent the feelings of a large class of people, I think that for some time the
equality of negroes and whites before the law, as regards testimony, will be merely an equality
in name.

Citizens say that their legislature may, and probably will, make laws receiving the testimony
of negroes in all cases, as a means of inducing the government to re-admit them to a full exercise
of their State jurisdiction and representation, but that no southern jury can ever be found
that, when it comes to a case where twenty negroes testify one way, and two white men testify
the other, will not decide in favor of the white, and virtually throw out the negro testimony.
Of course this matter of testimony will settle itself with time, and a negro's word obtain
the same credit from his individual character as among whites, for the whites, having cases
that they are dependent upon negro testimony for, will in the course of time be brought by
their own interests to take and demand the full benefit of the law; but for some time, although
legally admitted, it will in fact be excluded.

The report of Captain Warren Peck, a copy of which I have the honor to enclose, gives a very
fair view of what the result would be, were the officers of this bureau removed.

When I took charge here I found a perfect state of terror among whites and blacks; but now
that officers are thickly distributed over the district, complaints are few, and the laborers
are well, and, so far as possible, comfortably fixed for this year. Out of a negro population
of over 75,000, only 649 receive rations from the government as destitutes.

I feel no hesitation in saying that it is imperatively necessary to give the system of free
labor a fair trial, and to secure to the freedmen all the benefits contemplated by the emancipation
proclamation; that officers or agents should be retained whose duty it is to look after the
interests of this large class of people, and see that they are gradually accustomed to manage
their own business and protect their own interests.

I have the honor to be, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

GEORGE D. REYNOLDS, Major 6th United States Colored Heavy Artillery, and Acting Assistant Comm.
Bureau of Freedmen, &c., Southern Dist. of Mississippi.

Major General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 42.

HEADQUARTERS NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Jackson, Miss., August 21, 1865.

Captain: I have the honor to enclose copies of a notice to form companies in this and a neighboring
county, and of my letter to Governor Sharkey in reference to this matter. In a discussion which
I had with the governor he told me that it was his intention to raise a company of militia
in every county of the State, in accordance with the militia law of Mississippi, mainly for
the purpose of suppressing any acts of violence which the negroes may attempt to commit during
next winter. I called the attention of the governor to the fact that the docket, until this
day, exhibits only the name of white criminals, and that all information proves that almost
all the cases of robbery, murder, &c., were brought in connexion with young men in the country
lately returned from military service--just the very same men who, in all probability, would
join the intended meetings to form companies of militia.

The result of the organization of such companies, while the State is occupied by United States
troops, mostly colored, cannot be doubted--the heterogeneous element must clash and bring about
a state of affairs which certainly would prove detrimental to the peace and best interests
of the State.

Governor Sharkey tells me that he has applied to President Johnson for authority to raise the
militia, and that he would inform me of any decision he may receive from Washington; in the
mean time I consider it my duty to take action as communicated in my letter, and respectfully
request the approval of the major general commanding department. Very respectfully, your obedient
servant,

P. JOS. OSTERHAUS, Major General Volunteers.

Captain J. WARREN MILLER, A.A. General, Department of Mississippi.

Official copy:

W.A. GORDON, A.A. General.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE, Jackson, Miss., August 19, 1865.

Information having reached me that parties of bad men have banded together in different parts
of the State for the purpose of robbing and plundering, and for violating the law in various
ways, and that outrages of various kinds are being perpetrated, and the military authorities
of the United States being insufficient to protect the people throughout the entire State,
I do therefore call upon the people, and especially on such as are liable to perform military
duty, and are familiar with military discipline, to organize volunteer companies in each county
in the State, if practicable, at least one company of cavalry and one of infantry, as speedily
as possible, for the detection of criminals, the prevention of crime, and the preservation
of good order. And I urge upon these companies, when formed, that they will be vigilant in
the discharge of these duties. These companies will be organized under the law in relation
to volunteer companies as contained in the Revised Code, and the amendment thereto, passed
on the 10th of February, 1860, except that as soon as the proper number shall volunteer, the
election for officers may take place immediately and without further order, and commissions
will be issued as soon as returns are received, and the election may be held by any justice
of the peace.

It will be the duty, as I hope it will be the pleasure, of these companies to pursue and apprehend
all offenders against law, and by vigilance to prevent crime, to aid the civil authorities,
and to contribute all in their power to the restoration of good order in the community. Arms
will be procured, if possible, for such as may not have them, but I would advise an immediate
organization with such arms as can be procured.

Given under my hand and the great seal of State affixed.

W.L. SHARKEY, Provisional Governor of Mississippi.

By the Governor:

JOHN H. ECHOLS, Secretary of State.

HEADQUARTERS NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Jackson, Miss., August 22, 1865.

Captain: I have the honor to enclose copy of a letter received from Governor Sharkey in reply
to my communication of yesterday, copy of which was sent you by last courier. The governor's
proclamation, raising troops in the whole State, changes the status of things, as it no longer
belongs to the limits of my district, but to the department; and, consequently, I desist from
all further action in the matter until your instructions have come to hand.

In regard to the robberies, I will state that not a single regular stage, between Big Black
and Jackson, has been earnestly interfered with; they were permitted to run, without molestation,
while the "robbers" operated against a Massachusetts schoolmaster, some darkies, and the government
messengers; not a house was entered in the vicinity of the field of operations, not an inhabitant
robbed. All "home institutions" are apparently safe. The inference is natural that these highway
men are guerillas in the true sense of the word, and are waging a war against the "invaders."
The governor admits, very candidly, that he knows that the people are reluctant to give aid
to me by imparting information. Several persons who were halted by the "robbers," but released
with the excuse that they were stopped by mistake, refused flatly to give any name, of the
party they were stopped by, but declared to know them.

You know, captain, that certain parties have importuned the governor, from the beginning, to
raise the militia; and, as there was no cause for such a measure before, it probably was thought
expedient to get up some cause for the desired purpose. Now we have the "robberies"--they are
very one-sided and extraordinary--but they furnished the cause so badly wanted. The governor
is confident that a few squads of young men, armed with fowling-pieces and the omnipresent
revolvers, can suppress all irregularities, which the utmost vigilance and constant exertion
of a large number of United States troops failed to suppress!

I must state yet that the parties arrested under suspicion of participating in the described
robberies are young men lately connected with the rebel army. There is no doubt on my mind
that the young men "who steal the despatches from our messengers" will become good members
of the intended militia.

Sir: A notice appears in yesterday's paper, over the signature of Lamar Fontaine, calling on
the young men of Hinds and Madison counties to meet at Cooper Wells and at Livingstone, respectively,
on the 22d and 24th instant, for the purpose of organizing companies and electing officers.

The notice creates the impression that some kind of military organization is intended, and
in that event I would beg leave to call your attention to the fact that the State of Mississippi
is under occupation, and that martial law is still in force, and that no military organizations
can be tolerated which are not under the control of the United States officers. I am, therefore,
in duty bound and compelled to prevent and prohibit all military organization not recognized
as a portion of the United States forces, unless they are formed under special authority of
the War Department, or the major general commanding the department of Mississippi.

I can assure your excellency that the number of troops in the counties of Hinds and Madison
is amply sufficient to give the civil authorities all the assistance they may possibly need,
and the means at my disposal are amply sufficient to stop all crime, provided the civil authorities
will co-operate sincerely with the military commanders, and furnish information promptly and
voluntarily, as the public peace and safety require them to do.

I respectfully request that you will communicate the tenor of this communication to Mr. Fontaine.

Believe me, with great esteem, your excellency's obedient servant,

P. JOS. O'STERHAUS, Major General Volunteers.

His Excellency Hon. W.L. SHARKEY, Provisional Governor of Mississippi.

Official copy:

W.A. GORDON, A.A.G.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE, Jackson, Miss., August 22, 1865. This last remark was made by you with reference
to a particular organization which has been proposed in those counties. I have, however, issued
a general order on this subject, a copy of which I hand you, regretting that you have felt
yourself compelled to take this view of the subject, and I know you are prompted by a sense
of duty. I beg to remind you that for twelve or fifteen consecutive nights passengers travelling
in the stage between here and Vicksburg have been robbed, and these things have occurred within
twelve or fifteen miles of your own headquarters. I would not be understood as reflecting in
the slightest degree on you. I know you have every desire to prevent such occurrences, and
will use every means in your power to do so, and to arrest the culprits. I know, too, that
the people are reluctant to give you aid by imparting information to you, but, in addition
to these robberies, information daily reaches me of the perpetration of outrages, committed
in various ways in distant parts of the--State where you have no military force. The people
are calling on me for protection, which I cannot give them under existing circumstances, and
it was to give them relief that the military organizations have been ordered. If further justification
be necessary, I may add in the last interview I had with the President, in speaking of anticipated
troubles, he distinctly stated to me that I could organize the militia if it should become
necessary. I think the necessity is now manifest, and therefore claim the authority of the
President of the United States for my action. It was precisely under this authority that in
my proclamation of the 1st of July I called upon the people in unprotected counties to organize
for their security. I will also state that the President has been apprised of what I am doing
in this respect, and when he shall change his instructions I will, of course, yield obedience;
but until he shall do so, I shall feel it to be my duty to carry out the line of policy I have
adopted. I need scarcely assure you, general, that this is not in any sense a hostile demonstration,
and feel quite sure no evil can result from it. Mississippi has spoken too plainly in her convention
to leave any doubt about her future purposes.

Believe me, with great respect, your most obedient servant,

W.L. SHARKEY, Provisional Governor of Mississippi.

Major General P. Jos. OSTERHAUS.

Official copy:

W.A. GORDON, A.A.G.

No. 43.

OFFICE ACTING ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER FREEDMEN'S BUREAU

FOR NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI,

Jackson, Miss., September 28, 1865.

Major: In compliance with your request desiring me to furnish you a list of crimes and assaults
against freedmen, I have the honor to report that on or about the 18th day of August, 1865,
Matilda, a colored woman, was murdered by one J.H. Kiley and son, in Newton county, in this
State, for simply remonstrating against whipping her son. Lucinda, a colored woman, in Yalobusha
county, was stripped naked, tied to a tree, and severely whipped by three men, names unknown.
In the county of Holmes, between the 5th and 15th days of September, 1865, five negroes were
murdered; names of the perpetrators unknown. In Simpson county, about the 1st of August, a
father and his two sons cruelly whipped and abused a colored woman in their employ. Near Lauderdale
Springs, Castwell Eads, a citizen, by his own statement, shot and wounded a colored man for
simply refusing to obey his command, halt! while he was running from him after being cruelly
whipped. In Smith county, S.S. Catchings, a citizen, followed a colored man, who had left his
plantation, overtook him, knocked him down, and beat him brutally.

These are all the cases of which I have detailed accounts, none but general reports having
yet been received from the agents. These indicate that cruelty is frequently practiced.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

E.S. DONALDSON, Lieutenant Colonel, Acting Assistant Commissioner.

Major W.A. GORDON, Assistant Adjutant General.

No. 44.

Savannah, Ga., August 1, 1865.

General: In answer to your question with regard to free labor at the South, and particularly
the way in which the contract system is viewed by persons who were formerly slaveholders, I
would state that these persons accept the present condition of affairs as an alternative forced
upon them, believing still that the emancipation of their slaves was a great blunder, and that
slavery is the only system by which the colored laborer can be made profitable to his employer.

Within this district the plantation contracts now in force were entered into just subsequent
to the arrival of the army, and when it was impossible for planters to undertake the care of
their plantations. The negroes, therefore, planted for themselves, promising the owner a fair
proportion of the crop as rent for the use of the land.

Now, however, the matter comes up in a different shape. Owners have returned, and it is necessary
to make arrangements for the next season. Most of them complain and find fault with the government,
and remain inactive. So long as the military form prevails they seem to submit and to conform
to present requirements, but at heart they are unfriendly. Some few, however, ask of us what
we are going to do with the negro, and what provision will be made with regard to labor. There
is nothing in their conduct that betokens sympathy with our movements, or a desire to co-operate
with us earnestly in our work. The rebel spirit is as bitter as ever in the minds of the southern
people. To return to the old customs is now their effort, and step by step they would take
us back to where we were when the war broke out. They will contract with the freedmen, not
because they prefer to, but because they are obliged to, and so long as the authority of the
United States is present for the protection of all parties, and to compel a faithful performance,
the agreement will be carried out; but should the army be withdrawn, the freedmen would virtually
be reduced to slavery, and freedom-loving men would find a southern residence unsafe.

I think the negro is disposed to fulfil his contract, and in cases where it has seemed otherwise,
the other party has often been at fault.

While I have met a few planters who seem to realize that emancipation is a fixed fact, and
that they must make the most of present circumstances, by resorting to the only means by which
labor can now be obtained, (the contract system,) I have found scarcely one who will enter
into the matter with any kind of sympathy, or with either the belief or the hope that our plans
will eventually succeed, for they feel keenly that the success of those plans will prove the
foolishness of slavery.

The coming year will produce a change of opinion at the South, I think, if by thorough supervision
we secure protection to free labor.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

A.P. KETCHUM. Major General CARL SCHURZ.

LETTER OF GENERAL GRANT CONCERNING AFFAIRS AT THE SOUTH.

HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES,

Washington, D.C., December 18, 1865.

The Freedmen's Bureau being separated from the military establishment of the country, requires
all the expense of a separate organization. One does not necessarily know what the other is
doing, or what orders they are acting under. It seems to me this could be corrected by regarding
every officer on duty with troops in the southern States as an agent of the Freedmen's Bureau,
and then have all orders from the head of the bureau sent through department commanders. This
would create a responsibility that would secure uniformity of action throughout all the south;
would insure the orders and instructions from the head of the bureau being carried out, and
would relieve from duty and pay a large number of employees of the government.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

U.S. GRANT, Lieutenant General.

His Excellency ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States.