

       *       *       *       *       *

They walked a mile or more through the little tunnel. The air was fetid; stale and dank. To
Larry it seemed an interminable trip. The narrow passage descended at a constant slope, until
Larry estimated that they were well below the depth of the river bed. Within half a mile--before
they got under the river--the passage leveled off. It had been fairly straight, but now it
became tortuous--a meandering subterranean lane. Other similar tunnels crossed it, branched
from it or joined it. Soon, to Larry, it was a labyrinth of passages--a network, here underground.
In previous centuries this had been well below the lowest cellar of the mammoth city; these
tube-like passages were the city's arteries, the conduits for wires and pipes.

It was an underground maze. At each intersection the row of hidden hooded lights terminated,
and darkness and several branching trails always lay ahead. But Tina, with a memorized key
of the route, always found a new switch to light another short segment of the proper tunnel.
It was an eery trip, with the bent, misshapen black-cloaked figure of Tugh stumping ahead,
waiting where the lights ended for Tina to lead them further.

Larry had long since lost his sense of direction, but presently Tina told him that they were
beneath the river. The tunnel widened a little.

"We are under the base of the dam," said Tina. Her voice echoed with a sepulchral blur. Ahead,
the tramping figure of Tugh seemed a black gnome with a fantastic, monstrous shadow swaying
on the tunnel wall and roof.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly Tugh stopped. They found him at an arched door.

"Do we go in here, or keep on ahead?" he demanded.

The tunnel lights ended a short distance ahead.

"In here," said Tina. "There are stairs leading upward to the catwalk balcony corridor halfway
up the dam. We are not far from the Power House now."

They then ascended interminable moldy stone steps spiraling upward in a circular shaft. The
murmur of the dam's spillways had been faintly audible, but now it was louder, presently it
became a roar.

"Which way, Tina? We seem to have reached the top."

"Turn left, Tugh."

They emerged upon a tiny transverse metal balcony which hung against the southern side of the
dam. Overhead to the right towered a great wall of masonry. Beneath was an abyss down to the
lower river level where the cascading jets from the overhead spillways arched out over the
catwalk and landed far below in a white maelstrom of boiling, bubbling water.

The catwalk was wet with spray; lashed by wind currents.

"Is it far, Princess? Are those lights ahead at the Power House entrance?"

Tugh was shouting back over his shoulder; his words were caught by the roar of the falling
water; whipped away by the lashing spray and tumultuous winds. There were lights a hundred
feet ahead, marking an entrance to the Power House. The dark end of the structure showed like
a great lump on the side of the dam.

Again Tugh stopped. In the white, blurred darkness Larry and Tina could barely see him.

"Princess, quickly! Come quickly!" he called, and his shout sounded agonized.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever lack of perception Larry all this time had shown, the fog lifted completely from him
now. As Tina started to run forward, Larry seized her.

"Back! Run the other way! We've been fools!" He shoved Tina behind him and rushed at Tugh.
But now Larry was wholly wary; he expected that Tugh was armed, and cursed himself for a fool
for not having devised some pretext for finding out.[10]

[Footnote 10: As a matter of actuality, Tugh was carrying hidden upon his person a small cylinder
and battery of the deadly white-ray. It seems probable that although on the catwalk--having
accomplished his purpose of getting within the electrical fortifications of the dam--Tugh had
ample opportunity of killing his over-trustful companions with the white-ray, he did not dare
use it. The catwalk was too dark for their figures to be visible to the Power House guards;
the roar of the spillways drowned their shouts; but had Tugh used the white-ray, its abnormally
intense actinic white beam would have raised the alarm which Tugh most of all wanted to avoid.]

Tugh was clinging to the high outer rail of the balcony, slumped partly over as though gazing
down into the abyss. Larry rushed up and seized him by the arms. If Tugh held a weapon Larry
thought he could easily wrest it from him. But Tugh stood limp in Larry's grip.

"What's the matter with you?" Larry demanded.

"I'm ill. Something--going wrong. Feel me--so cold. Princess! Tina! Come quickly! I--I am dying!"

As Tina came hurrying up, Tugh suddenly straightened. With incredible quickness, and even more
incredible strength, he tore his arm loose from Larry and flung it around the Princess, and
they were suddenly all three struggling. Tugh was shoving them back from the rail. Larry tried
to get loose from Tugh's clutch, but could not. He was too close for a full blow, but he jabbed
his fist against the cripple's body, and then struck his face.

But Tugh was unhurt; he seemed endowed with superhuman strength. The cripple's body seemed
padded with solid muscle, and his thick, gorilla-like arm held Larry in the grip of a vise.
As though Larry and Tina were struggling, helpless children, he was half dragging, half carrying
them across the ten-foot width of the catwalk.

Larry caught a glimpse of a narrow slit in the masonry of the dam's wall--a dark, two-foot-wide
aperture. He felt himself being shoved toward it. For all his struggles, he was helpless. He
shouted:

"Tina--look out! Break away!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He forgot himself for a moment, striving to wrest her away from Tugh and push her aside. But
the strength of the cripple was monstrous: Larry had no possible chance of coping with it.
The slit in the wall was at hand--a dark abyss down into the interior of the dam. Larry heard
the cripple's words, vehement, unhurried, as though with all this effort he still was not out
of breath:

"At last I can dispose of you two. I do not need you any longer."

Larry made a last wild jab with his fist into Tugh's face and tried to twist himself aside.
The blow landed upon Tugh's jaw, but the cripple did not seem to feel it. He stuffed the struggling
Larry like a bundle into the aperture. Larry felt his clutching hands torn loose. Tugh gave
a last, violent shove and released him.

Larry fell into blackness--but not far, for soon he struck water. He went under, hit a flat,
stone bottom, and came up to hear Tina fall with a splash beside him. In a moment he regained
his feet, to find himself standing breast-high in the water with Tina clinging to him.

Tugh had disappeared. The aperture showed as a narrow rectangle some twenty feet above Larry's
head.

They were within the dam. They were in a pit of smooth, blank, perpendicular sides; there was
nothing to afford even the slightest handhold; and no exit save the overhead slit. It was a
part of the mechanism's internal, hydraulic system.

       *       *       *       *       *

To Larry's horror he soon discovered that the water was slowly rising! It was breast-high to
him now, and inch by inch it crept up toward his chin. It was already over Tina's depth: she
clung to him, half-swimming.

Larry soon found that there was no possible way for them to get out unaided, unless, if they
could swim long enough, the rising water would rise to the height of the aperture. If it reached
there, they could crawl out. He tried to estimate how long that would be.

"We can make it, Tina. It'll take two hours, possibly, but I can keep us afloat that long."

But soon he discovered that the water was not rising. Instead, the floor was sinking from under
him! sinking as though he were standing upon the top of a huge piston which slowly was lowering
in its encasing cylinder. Dimly he could hear water tumbling into the pit, to fill the greater
depth and still hold the surface level.

With the water at his chin, Larry guided Tina to the wall. He did not at first have the heart
to tell her, yet he knew that soon it must be told. When he did explain it, she said nothing.
They watched the water surface where it lapped against the greasy concave wall. It held its
level: but while Larry stood there, the floor sank so that the water reached his mouth and
nose, and he was forced to start swimming.

Another interval. Larry began calling: shouting futilely. His voice filled the pit, but he
knew it could carry no more than a short distance out of the aperture.

       *       *       *       *       *

Overhead, as we afterward learned, Tugh had overcome the guards in the Power House by a surprise
attack. Doubtless he struck them down with the white-ray before they had time to realize he
had attacked them. Then he threw off the air-power transmitters and the lighting system. The
city, plunged into darkness and without the district air-power, was isolated, cut off from
the outside world. There was, in London, a huge long-range projector with a vibratory ray which
would derange the internal mechanisms of the Robots: when news of the revolt and massacre in
New York had reached there, this projector was loaded into an airliner, the Micrad. That vessel
was now over the ocean, headed for New York; but when Tugh cut off the power senders, the Micrad,
entering the New York District, was forced down to the ocean surface. Now she was lying there
helpless to proceed....

In the pit within the dam, Larry swam endlessly with Tina. He had ceased his shouting.

"It's no use, Tina: there's no one to hear us. This is the end--for us--Tina."

Yet, as she clung to him, and though Larry felt it was the end of this life, it seemed only
the beginning, for them, of something else. Something, somewhere, for them together; something
perhaps infinitely better than this world could ever give them.

"But not--the end--Tina," he added. "The beginning--of our love."

An interminable interval....

"Quietly, Tina. You float. I can hold you up."

They were rats in a trap--swimming, until at the last, with all strength gone, they would together
sink out of this sodden muffled blackness into the Unknown. But that Unknown shone before Larry
now as something--with Tina--perhaps very beautiful....

(Concluded in the next issue)

[Advertisement]

A meeting Place for Readers of Astounding Stories

What Say Our Co-Editors?

     Dear Editor:

     Since sending you "Manape the Mighty," I have read of a
     Russian scientist who removed the brain from a dog and kept
     both alive for some hours, which only goes to prove that
     science outstrips the wildest dreams of the fictionist, and
     a yarn that may be astounding and unusual when written, may
     be commonplace, and the knowledge of the man in the street,
     by the time the story goes to press. People read every day
     of "miracles" and scarcely give them a second thought, while
     a hundred years ago their perpetrators would have been
     destroyed as witches.

     Far be it for me, or anyone else, to say that the main
     transposition used in "Manape the Mighty" is absurd and
     impossible. For while you, or I, may shrug shoulders and
     dismiss even the thought of it as being the dream of a
     madman, somebody, in some laboratory somewhere, may already
     have successfully managed it. So given the premise that the
     thing may be possible, I've sort of let myself go on this
     idea, and a whole new train of thought has been opened up, a
     whole new vista of astounding things in the realm of Science
     Fiction. In parenthesis, I must thank you for getting me
     started on the thing, for had you not suggested the idea
     from the throne-like fortress of your editorial chair,
     "Manape" might never have been born. I confess that I would
     perhaps have been afraid of it, both because of the
     possibility of the charge of following in the footsteps of
     the internationally famous Edgar Rice Burroughs, and of
     re-vamping the incomparable Poe tale, "Murders in the Rue
     Morgue."

     But, even so, both are interesting to dally with.

     Given the premise that the brain transference is possible,
     what would happen:

     (1) If the brain of a terrible criminal were transferred to
     the skull pan of an unusually mighty ape--and the ape
     transplanted from his arboreal home in Africa to the streets
     of London, Paris or New York whence the criminal whose brain
     he has originated? Suppose his man's brain harbored thoughts
     of vengeance on enemies, and he now possesses the might of
     the great ape to carry out his vengeance?

     (2) If Barter somehow escaped destruction at the hands of
     the apes in "Manape the Mighty," and continued with his work
     of brain transference--building up a mighty army of great
     apes with the idea of avenging himself on civilization for
     wrongs real and fancied? Apes with broadswords and chained
     mail, with steel helmets on their heads--men's brains,
     savages' brains, perhaps, as their guiding intelligence--and
     the tenacity of apes when mortally wounded? Suppose they
     swept over Africa like a cloud of locusts? Or is this too
     feeble a simile? Suppose, Africa, to be laid waste by them,
     led by Barter, the latter styling himself a modern Alexander
     of horrible potentiality, and extending his scope of
     conquest to the Holy Land, India, Asia--the Pacific
     littoral? Holy cats!

     (3) Suppose that Barter managed, by purchase or otherwise,
     to acquire an island close to the American continents,
     within reach of either or both, and managed to transfer his
     activities there, using the natives of those islands--say
     Haiti, Cuba, Porto Rico, etc.--for his experiments, training
     his cohorts as an army, and starting a navy by capturing all
     vessels putting into these places? Fancy the consternation
     of the Western Hemisphere when ships suddenly go silent, as
     regards radio, after sudden mysterious SOS's--and all trace
     of vessels is lost. Suppose the U. S. Navy went to
     investigate, and also vanished. More holy cats!

     (4) Suppose, in connection with all the suppositions above,
     that Barter desired to give an ironic twist to his
     experiments, and kept his human victims alive--but with
     apes' brains--as slaves of their man-ape conquerors? Suppose
     that out of the horror into which the world would be thrown,
     another Bentley should arise to help the imprisoned humans
     to escape their ghastly bondage? I can fancy his trials and
     tribulations, trying to manage a host of human beings with
     the brains of apes.

     (5) And what about the training of internes and medicos to
     help a potential Barter, when the trade got beyond his sole
     ability--and apes with men's brains to perform his
     experiments?

     Do you suppose we'd all get locked up for experimenting with
     this sort of thing fictionally? I wouldn't care to take the
     entire responsibility myself, nor I fancy would you--because
     somebody might be inspired by our stories to attempt the
     thing--so might I suggest that all possible conspirators, in
     the shape of readers of this magazine, write to you or me
     and let us know whether they'd like to see it happen
     fictionally? If the idea appeals--and of course we can't go
     too heavily on horror--I'll do my best to comply. Always
     within limits, however--utterly refusing to perform any
     experiments that can't be done with a typewriter and the
     usual two fingers.--Arthur J. Burks, 178-80 Fifth Ave., New
     York City.

"Like in Story Books"

     Dear Editor:

     Here I am again! This time I'm offering suggestions. Let's
     you and I and others get together and do something to these
     chronic kickers. It seems I can't start to enjoy our
     "Readers' Corner" without someone raising a halloo. Darn
     it! Why in heaven's name do they buy A. S. if they don't
     like it? They are not compelled to do so.

     I also don't understand why people are knocking the size and
     quality of the paper used. It suits me O. K. All the mags I
     read are the same way, and I pay five cents more for them,
     too!

     I surely enjoyed Mr. Olog's letter in the March issue. Gee,
     it gives one the creeps. I agree with him, too, that we
     ought to have a little something about the authors. I'm sure
     we'd all like to know a little more about these talented
     persons.

     "When the Mountain Came to Miramar" was a great deal to my
     liking. I think it would be a great adventure to discover
     some secret cave and explore it. Of course, I'd like to
     wiggle out of danger, too, just like in story books.

     I certainly wish to congratulate you on publishing "Beyond
     the Vanishing Point." It just suited me to a "T."
     Heretofore, all stories dealing with life upon atoms have
     been "just another story," but this one beats all. I enjoyed
     it to the utmost, and I congratulate Mr. Cummings on writing
     my favorite kind of story.

     All in all the March issue was indeed grand. If "Brown-Eyed
     Nineteen from Coronado, Calif.," will send me her full name
     and address, I'll promise to answer her letter immediately
     upon receiving it.--Gertrude Hemken, 5730 So. Ashland Ave.,
     Chicago, Ill.

And So Do We

     Dear Editor:

     It certainly is a swell idea of yours to answer letters to
     "The Readers' Corner" personally instead of taking up a lot
     of room answering them underneath as do most Editors. Not
     only that, but it builds up a feeling of friendship, between
     the Reader and the Editor, besides affording more room to
     publish letters and avoiding some of the bad feelings
     sometimes directed upon Editors when they do not publish
     someone's letter.

     Now, with your kind permission, I will burst into the little
     (?) ring of discussion about size, reprints, covers, artists
     and authors.

     First, about the size and edges: The size is O. K., but I
     wish you would change the edges from a "rocky mountain" to a
     "desert" state. In other words, I would like straight edges
     in the near future.

     Next, reprints: In two letters, an N O--No! If the Readers
     want reprints why doesn't Mr. Clayton publish an annual
     chock full of reprints for these reprint hounds?

     Covers and artists: The covers have all been great. Not too
     lurid. Just right. As for the artists, Wesso is the best by
     a long shot. Nuff said.

     Authors: Ah, that's a problem. Who is the best? I could rack
     my brain for hours and still not decide, so I'll have to
     give a list of my favorites: R. F. Starzl, Edmond Hamilton,
     Harl Vincent, Sewell Peaslee Wright, Jack Williamson, S. P.
     Meek, Miles J. Breuer and Ray Cummings.

     Before I close there is one little thing I would like to
     mention. Did you ever notice that 75% of all the Readers who
     say they do not care for science in their stories are women?
     [?] Besides that, the only ones at school who think I'm
     "cracked" for reading Science Fiction are females. Figure it
     out for yourself.

     I hope you, Mr. Bates, will continue to be our able Editor
     for many years to come.--Jim Nicholson, Ass't Sec'y., B. S.
     C., 40 Lunado Way, San Francisco, Calif.

Four to One

     Dear Editor:

     Congratulations to Wesso! His March cover for "our" magazine
     is Astounding!

     Ray Cummings' novelette, "Beyond the Vanishing Point," is
     absolutely the most marvelous of all his short stories. I
     can't rave over it enough. I never read his "The Girl of the
     Golden Atom" but I imagine this must be something like it.
     It's certainly the best of the "long short stories" that's
     ever graced the insides of Astounding Stories.

     "When the Mountain Came to Miramar" is a very good story in
     my opinion. "Terrors Unseen" is a wow! No foolin'. As for
     "Phalanxes of Atlans," well, I simply can't get interested
     in it. I thought the first part very uninteresting and
     decided not to bother to read the rest of it. But Wesso's
     splendid illustration made me do so. But I still think it is
     a rather poor story. But, true to form, someone will no
     doubt think it the most wonderful story ever written.

     Last, but not least, of all the stories comes "The Meteor
     Girl." It's by Jack Williamson: need more be said?

     "Beyond the Vanishing Point," by Ray Cummings, proved
     interesting through-out. "Terrors Unseen," by Harl Vincent,
     was fairly good, as was "Phalanxes of Atlans," by F. V. W.
     Mason.

     But now comes the rub. Just why do you permit your Authors
     to inject messy love affairs into otherwise excellent
     imaginative fiction? Just stop and think. Our young
     hero-scientist builds himself a space flyer, steps out into
     the great void, conquers a thousand and one perils on his
     voyage and amidst our silent cheers lands on some far
     distant planet. Then what does he do? I ask you. He falls in
     love with a maiden--or it's usually a princess--of the
     planet to which the Reader has followed him, eagerly
     awaiting and hoping to share each new thrill attached to his
     gigantic flight. But after that it becomes merely a
     hopeless, doddering love affair ending by his returning to
     Earth with his fair one by his side. Can you grasp that--a
     one-armed driver of a space flyer!

     But seriously, don't you think that affairs of the heart are
     very much out of place in "our" type of magazine? We buy A.
     S. for the thrill of being changed in size, in time, in
     dimension or being hurtled through space at great speed, but
     not to read of love.

     Right here I wish to join forces with Glyn Owens up there in
     Canada in his request for plain, cold scientific stories
     sans the fair sex.

     Otherwise your "our" magazine is the best of its kind on the
     market--W. H. Flowers. 1215 N. Lang Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Brickbats for Others

     Dear Editor:

     Brickbats and plenty of them are coming, but not your way.
     I'm throwing mine at those guys that want reprints, more
     science, etc. The only one I agree with is the fellow who
     would like a thicker magazine with more stories.

     Now for the brickbats. I'll bet a great many of your Readers
     have read some of these reprints that some of our Readers
     are crying for. I'll also bet that reprints would not help
     your friendly connections with a lot of your Authors. The
     stories that are written now I find good. Let the present
     authors make their living from the stories their brains
     think up.

