These two typical forms of convention are quite clear and seldom lead to any misunderstanding.
But the high table at the club is different, and, if I might say so with all diffidence, the
conventions there are not so well defined. In fact they may lead to terrible confusion. I speak
with confidence on this point because I tried them a few days ago.

Three disconsolate monomaniacs wanted making up, and I, dwelling upon the strong game I had
recently been playing at home, threw precaution to the winds and made them up. My partner was
a stern man with a hard blue eye and susceptible colouring. After we had cut he informed me
that, should he declare one no-trump, he wished to be taken out into a major suit of five;
also, should he double one no-trump, he required me to declare without fail my best suit. He
was going to tell me some more but somebody interrupted him. Then we started what appeared
to be a very ordinary rubber.

My partner perhaps was not quite at his best when it was my turn to lead; at least he never
seemed particularly enthusiastic about anything I did lead, but otherwise--well, I might almost
have been at the Robinsons'. Then suddenly he doubled one no-trump.

I searched feverishly for my best suit. I had two--four diamonds to the eight; four hearts
to the eight. A small drop of perspiration gathered upon my brow. Then I saw that, whereas
I held the two, three, five of hearts, I had the two, three, six of diamonds. Breathing a small
prayer, I called two diamonds. This was immediately doubled by the original declarer of no-trumps.
My partner said "No," my other opponent said "No," and I, thinking it couldn't be worse, switched
into my other best suit and made it two hearts. The doubler passed and I felt the glow of pride
which comes to the successful strategist. This was frozen instantly by my partner's declaration
of two no-trumps.

If Mr. SMILLIE were suddenly transformed into a Duke I am certain he would not look so genuinely
horror-struck as my partner did when I laid my hand upon the table. Yet, as I pointed out,
it was his own beastly convention, so I just washed my hands of it and leaned back and watched
him hurl forth his cards as Zeus hurled the thunder-bolts about.

Then, of course, the other convention had to have its innings. My partner went one no-trump,
and I began to look up my five suit. In the meantime the next player on the declaring list
doubled the no-trump. This was very confusing. Was he playing my partner's convention and asking
his partner for his best suit? I hesitated; but orders are orders, so, having five spades to
the nine, I declared two spades. My left-hand enemy said "No"; my partner said "No"; and the
doubler--well, he doubled again. This time my partner, being Dummy, hurled down all his thunder-bolts--thirteen
small ones--at once. When it was all over he explained at some length that he did not wish
ever to be taken out of an opponent's double. I expect this was another convention he was going
to tell me about when he was interrupted in the overture to the rubber. Anyway he hadn't told
me, and I at some slight cost--five hundred--had nobly carried out his programme.

When eventually the final blow fell and we, with the aid of the club secretary, were trying
to add up the various columns of figures, the waiter brought up the evening papers. I seized
one and, looking at the chief events of the day, remarked, "STEVENSON is playing a great game."
My late partner said, "Ah, you're interested in billiards." I admitted the soft impeachment.
"Yes," he said dreamily, "a fine game, billiards; you never have to play against three opponents."

I have now definitely decided that playing my 2 handicap game at the Robinsons' and my plus
1 in the home circle is all the bridge I really care about.

       *       *       *       *       *

    ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "Man's original evolution from the anthropoid apes ... becomes a
    reasonable hypothesis, especially when we think of the semi-naked
    savages who inhabited these islands when Julius Cæsar landed on our
    shores, and our present Prime Minister."--Church Family Newspaper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The contemplated aerial expedition to the South Pole will start in
    October. Aeroplanes and airships will be used, and the object of the
    trip is to study magnetic wages."--Irish Paper.

Incidentally it is expected a new altitude record may be achieved.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.

          THE SNAIL.

  The life of the snail is a fight against odds,
    Though fought without fever or flummox;
  You see, he is one of those gasteropods
    Which have to proceed on their stomachs.

  Just think how you'd hate to go round on your own,
    Especially if it was gummy,
  And wherever you travelled you left on a stone
    The horrid imprint of your tummy!

  Wherever you hid, by that glutinous trail
    Some boring acquaintance would follow;
  And this is the bitter complaint of the snail
    Who is pestered to death by the swallow.

  But remember, he carries his house on his back,
    And that is a wonderful power;
  When he goes to the sea he has nothing to pack,
    And he cannot be caught in a shower.

  After all there is something attractive in that;
    And then he can move in a minute,
  And it's something to have such a very small flat
    That nobody else can get in it.

  But this is what causes such numbers of snails
    To throw themselves into abysses:--
  They are none of them born to  be definite males
    And none of them definite misses.

  They cannot be certain which one of a pair
    Is the Daddy and which  is  the Mummy;
  And that must be even more awful to bear
    Than walking about on your tummy.

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MOTHER OF 13 HAS TRIPLETS."--Daily Paper.

The unlucky age.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEPTEMBER IN MY GARDEN.

There are few things I find so sorrowful as to sit and smoke and reflect on the splendid deeds
that one might have been doing if one had only had the chance. The PRIME MINISTER feels like
this, I suppose, when he remembers how unkind people have prevented him from making a land
fit for heroes to live in, and I feel it about my garden. There can be no doubt that my garden
is not fit for heroes to saunter in; the only thing it is fit for is to throw used matches
about in; and there is indeed a certain advantage in this. Some people's gardens are so tidy
that you have to stick all your used matches very carefully into the mould, with the result
that next year there is a shrubbery of Norwegian pine.

The untidiness of my garden is due to the fault of the previous tenants. Nevertheless one can
clearly discern through the litter of packing-cases which completely surrounds the house that
there was originally a garden there.

I thought something ought to be done about this, so I bought a little book on gardening, and,
turning to September, began to read.

"September," said the man, "marks the passing of summer and the advent of autumn, the time
of ripening ruddy-faced fruits and the reign of a rich and gloriously-coloured flora."

About the first part of this statement I have no observation to make. It is probably propaganda,
subsidised by the Meteorological Office in order to persuade us that we still have a summer;
it has nothing to do with my present theme. But with regard to the ripening ruddy-faced fruits
I should like to point out that in my garden there are none of these things, because the previous
tenants took them all away when they left. Not a ruddy-faced fruit remains. As for the rich
and gloriously-coloured flora, I lifted the edges of all the packing-cases in turn and looked
for it, but it was not there either. It should have consisted, I gather, of "gorgeously-coloured
dahlias, gay sunflowers, Michaelmas daisies, gladioli and other autumn blossoms, adding brightness
and gaiety to our flower-garden."

"Gaiety" seems to be rather a strong point with this author, for a little further on he says,
"The garden should be gay throughout the month with the following plants," and then follows
a list of about a hundred names which sound like complicated diseases of the internal organs.
I cannot mention them all, but it seems that my garden should be gay throughout with Lysimachia
clethroides, Kniphofia nobilis and Pyrethrum uliginosum. It is not. How anything can be gay
with Pyrethrum uliginosum I cannot imagine. An attitude of reverent sympathy is what I should
have expected the garden to have. But that is what the man says.

Then there is the greenhouse. "From now onwards," he writes, "the greenhouse will meet with
a more welcome appreciation than it has during the summer months. The chief plants in flower
will be Lantanas, Campanula pyramidalis, Zonal Pelargoniums," and about twenty more. "Oh, they
will, will they?" I thought, and opened the greenhouse door and looked in. Against the wall
there were two or three mouldering peach-trees, and all over the roof and floor a riot of green
tomatoes, a fruit which even when it becomes ruddy-faced I do not particularly like. In a single
large pot stood a dissipated cactus, resembling a hedgehog suffering from mange.

But what was even more bitter to me than all this ruin and desolation was the thought of the
glorious deeds I might have been doing if the garden had been all right. Phrases from the book
kept flashing to my eye.

"Thoroughly scrub the base and sides of the pots, and see that the drainage-holes are not sealed
with soil." How it thrilled the blood!

"Damp the floors and staging every morning and afternoon, and see that the compost is kept
uniformly moist." What a fascinating pursuit!

"Feed the plants once a week with liquid manure." It went like a clarion call to the heart.

And here I was condemned to ennui and indolence when I might have been sitting up all night
dosing the Zonal Pelargoniums with hot beef-tea and taking the temperature of the Campanula
pyramidalis. Even with the ruddy-faced fruits there would have been plenty to do.

"Wooden trays with open lath bottoms made to slide into a framework afford the best means of
storing apples and pears. The ripening of pears may be accelerated by enclosing them in bran
or dry clean sand in a closed tin box." It did not say how often one was to clean out the cage,
nor whether you put groundsel between the bars.

I told the man next door of my sorrows.

"Well, there 's plenty to do," he said. "Get a spade and dig the garden all over."

Dig it all over indeed when I ought to be plucking nosegays of Lysimachia clethroides and Pyrethrum
uliginosum to put in my buttonhole! I prefer to dream my dreams.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CABMAN AND THE COIN.

"We must wait a minute or two for Sir Charles," said our hostess. "Everyone else is here,"
and she beamed around the room.

The various mauvais quart d'heure dialogues that this speech had interrupted were resumed,
most of them switching on to the question of punctuality. And then a cab was heard to stop
outside and after a minute or so, presumably spent in financial transactions, the bell rang
and the knocker knocked.

"That's Sir Charles," said our hostess; "there he is;" and a few moments later the guest we
all awaited so fervently was in the room, full of apologies.

"Never mind why you're late," said our hostess, "I'm sure you couldn't help it. Now we'll eat,"
and once again a dozen Londoners fell into ark- approaching formation and moved towards repletion.

The party was familiar enough, after certain solvents of speech had been applied, for conversation
to become general; and during the entrée we were all listening to Sir Charles telling the famous
story of the eminent numismatist who, visiting the British Museum, was taken for a thief. By
way of making the narration the more vivid he felt in his pocket for a coin with which to illustrate
the dramatic crisis, when his expression became suddenly alarmed and fixed.

"Good heavens!" he said, fumbling nervously all over his clothes, "I've given it to the cabman.
Of all the infernal idiocy! I knew I should. I had a presentiment that I should get it muddled
up with my other money and give it away."

"What was it?" he was asked.

"Was it something very valuable?"

"Was it a rare coin?"

Murmurs of sympathy made a low accompaniment.

"It was a goldmohur," said Sir Charles. "A very beautiful coin of the Moguls. I keep it as
a kind of mascot. I've had it for years, but left it behind and it reached me from India only
this morning. Having come away without it I sent a cable for it to be forwarded on. And now!
It's the rottenest luck."

"What was it worth?" our hostess asked.

"Not very much. Thirty pounds perhaps. But that isn't it. The money is nothing--it's the sentimental
associations that make the loss so serious."

"Well," said a practical man, "you needn't despair. Ring up Scotland Yard and ask them the
best thing to do."

"Did you take the cabman's number?" some one asked.

"Of course he didn't," our hostess replied. "Who ever does a thing like that?"

"As a matter of fact," said Sir Charles, "I sometimes do. But this time, of course, I didn't."
He groaned. "No, it's gone for ever. The cabman will see it's gold and sell it. I wouldn't
trust your modern taxi-chauffeur with anything."

"If you would feel any happier," said our hostess, "do telephone now."

"No," said Sir Charles, "no. It's no use. A coin like that would never be surrendered. It's
too interesting; even a cabman would realise that. Umbrellas they'll take back, of course--umbrellas
and bags, but not a goldmohur. He'll either keep it to show his pals in public-houses or have
it fixed up as a brooch for his wife."

As Sir Charles finished speaking and once more turned gloomily to his neglected plate the knocker
was heard again to knock, and then one of the maids approached her mistress and spoke to her
in low tones.

Our hostess brightened. "Now, Sir Charles," she said, "perhaps you'll revise your opinion of
our taxi-drivers. Tell Sir Charles what it is," she said to the maid.

"If you please," the maid began, "there's a cabman at the door. He says he brought a gentleman
here and----" Here she faltered.

"Go on, Robins," said her mistress.

"If you please, I don't like to," said the girl. "It's so--so----"

"I should like to hear it exactly," said Sir Charles.

"Well," said the maid with a burst of courage, "he says there's a gentleman here who--who bilked
him--who passed a piece of bad money on him in the dark. Here it is," and she handed Sir Charles
the goldmohur. "And he says if he doesn't get an honest shilling in exchange for it he'll have
the law on him."

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KNELL OF THE NAVY.

Spooner is a remarkable fellow. His duties on board this ship are to fly once a week off the
deck, revolve twice round the masts and sink thankfully down into the water, where we haul
him out by the breeches and hang his machine up to dry on the fo'c's'le. By performing these
duties four times a month, he leads us to believe he is preparing the way for the ultimate
domination of Air Power. We of the Navy are obsolete, and our hulls are encrusted with the
Harwich barnacle.

The argument proceeds on these lines: One day there will be another war--perhaps to-morrow.
We of the Navy, coalless and probably by that time rumless as well, will rush blindly from
our harbours, our masts decked with Jolly Rogers and our sailors convulsed with hornpipe, to
seek the enemy. But, alas, before the ocean spray has wetted our ruby nostrils we shall find
ourselves descended upon from above and bombed promiscuously in the middle watch.

It will be all over inside a nautical second. The sky will be black with hostile aircraft,
and there will be lead in the stew and bleeding bodies in the bilge. Hollow laughter will sound
from the bridge, where the Captain will find the wheel come away in his hand, and the gramophone
will revolve eternally on a jazz rune because no one will be alive to stop it. When all these
things occur we of the Navy will know that our day is past and done.

Why our Mr. Spooner is such a remarkable fellow is because he can sit deep in an easy-chair
and recite these things without turning a single hair on his top lip. Of course he realises
that the work of the Navy must go on--until the crash descends. But it is rather unsettling
for us. It seems to give us all a sort of impermanent feeling. Quite naturally we all ask what
is the use of keeping up the log and painting the ship? Why isn't all the spare energy in the
ship bent to polishing up our boat-drill? or why aren't the people who can afford it encouraged
to buy unsinkable waistcoats? The Admiralty must know all about it if they are still on speaking
terms with the Air Ministry. It's a beastly feeling.

Yesterday a formation of powerful aeroplanes, which Spooner called the "Clutching Hand," came
out from the land and flew round us, and simply prodded us with their propellers as we lay
defenceless on the water.

The bogey is undoubtedly spreading. The Admiral came aboard this afternoon to inspect our new
guns. He yawned the whole time in his beard and did not ask a single question. We suppose he
realises that the whole business is merely a makeshift arrangement for the time being and not
worth bothering about as long as the brass is polished and the guns move up and down easily.

Well, as far as we are concerned it only remains for Number One, who has a brother in the Air
Force, to cancel his winter order with Breezes, the naval tailors, and we shall all go below
and pack our trunks and get ready to hand the ship over to Spooner. If the Navy of the future
must be under water there is no particular reason why we should be there too.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSPIRATORS.

1.

My Dear Charles,--You continue to ask me what I am doing, and why, and when I am going to sign
the Peace, like everyone else, and return to honest work. The answer is in the negative. Though
I am very fond of peace, I don't like work. And, as for being honest, I tend rather to politics.
Have I never told you that I take a leading part on the Continent in the great Class War now
raging? And, by the way, has anyone let you know that it is only a matter of time before the
present order of society is closed down, the rule of the proletariat established and people
like Charles set on to clean the streets or ruthlessly eliminated?

LENIN began to worry about you as long ago as 1915, and you know what happens to people when
LENIN really starts to worry about them. He wasn't satisfied that enough violent interest was
being taken in you; the mere Socialists he regarded as far too moderate and genteel. As for
their First and their Second International--he wanted something thoroughgoing, something with
a bit of ginger to it. So at the Zimmerwald Congress on the 5th September of that year all
the out-and-outs unanimously declared war to the knife agin the Government, whatever and wherever
the Government might be. How many long and weary years have you waited, Charles, to be told
what Zimmerwaldianism might be--a religious tendency, a political aspiration, a valvular disease
of the appendix or something to do with motor-cars? Ah, but that is as nothing to the secrets
I am going to let you into, to force you into, before I have done with you.

It was not until well into 1918 that I myself began to worry about LENIN. He had left Switzerland
by that time, having got tired of the jodelling Swiss and their infernally placid mountains.
When the revolution broke out in Russia he felt it was just the thing for him, and his German
backers felt he was just the man for it. So LENIN, whose real name isn't LENIN, went into partnership
with TROTSKY, whose real name isn't TROTSKY, and set up in business in Moscow. But the thing
was too good to be confined to Russia; an export department was clearly called for. It was
when they began in the "off-licence" trade, in the "jug-and-bottle" business, that they ran
up against your Henry.

With the view of upheaving Switzerland, LENIN and Co. sent a Legation to its capital, the principle
being, no doubt, that before you cut another people's throat you must first establish friendly
relations. This Legation arrived in May, 1918, when we were all so occupied with the War, making
returns and indents and things, that it hoped to pass unnoticed. But there was something about
that Legation which caught the eye; it had not the Foreign Office look about it--smart Homburg
hats, washleather gloves, attaché-cases with majestic locks, spats ... there was something
missing. It looked as if it might be so many Anarchists plotting a bomb affair.

And that's what it was. I suppose you will say I am inventing it when I tell you that it used
to sit round a table, in the basement of an Italian restaurant, devising schemes for getting
rid of people (especially people like Charles) en bloc; that it didn't provide the Italian
restaurant- keeper with as much money as he thought he could do with; that the Italian restaurant-keeper
came round to see us after dark; wouldn't give his name; came into the room hurriedly; locked
the door behind him; whispered "H'st!" and told us all about it. It requires an Italian to
do that sort of thing properly; but this fellow was better than the best. I couldn't go to
a cinema for months afterwards because it lacked the thrill of real life.

We were so impressed with his performance that we asked him his trade. He dropped the sinister,
assumed the bashful and told us that he was an illusionist and juggler before he took to restaurant-keeping
and sleuthing. He juggled four empty ink-pots for our entertainment and made one of them disappear.
Not quite the way to treat a world-revolution; but there! This was all in the autumn of 1918,
when we were naturally a bit above ourselves.

Switzerland has four frontiers--German, Austrian, Italian and French. Lenin's Legation had
opened up modestly and without ostentation as becomes a world's reformer, a distributing office
on each one of the four. Somehow I could never work myself up to be really alarmed at jolly
ANNA BALABANOFF, but I fancy she has done as much harm since as most people achieve here on
earth. Her job was to work into Italy; but in those days, when war conditions still prevailed,
she couldn't do much more than stand on the shores of the Lake of Lugano and scowl at the opposite
side, which is Italian. Do you remember the lady's photograph in our daily Press? If so you
will agree with me that even that measure was enough to start unrest in Italy....

Charles, my lad, let us break off there and leave you for a week all of a tremble. In the course
of these Sensational Revelations we are going to see something of the arrangements made for
the break-up of the old world, which, with all its faults, we know we still love. The process
of reconstruction is not yet defined, and will probably not be attempted in our time. In any
case, when things arrive at that stage, there will be no Charles and, I am still more sorry
to say, no Henry.

Now, whatever you may think about it, I for one am not prepared to be scrapped and to become
part of a dump of oddments waiting instructions for removal from a Bolshevist Disposals Board.
You know what these Disposal Boards are; one's body might lie out in the rain for years while
the minutes were being passed round the Moscow Departments. I have worried myself to death
about it, and now I am going to worry you. I am going to make your flesh creep and your blood
run cold. No use your telling me you don't care what is coming along in the future, provided
you can be left in peace for the present. I shall tap you on the shoulder and shall whisper
into your ear the resolutions passed with regard to you as recently as the end of July last
at Moscow.. I'll make you so nervous that you daren't get into bed, and, once in bed, daren't
get out again. I expect to have you mad in about three weeks, and even then I shall pass more
copies of this paper, with more revelations in them, through the bars of your asylum window.

All that for sixpence a week is not expensive, is it, dear Charles?

Yours ever,

HENRY.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

    "Do not delay. The above coats will last only few hours."--New Zealand
    Star.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. ---- highly recommends his Butler; left through death."--Morning
    Paper.

Should suit SIR OLIVER LODGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Black Waler Mare, 15-1, six years off, up to 14 stones, easy paces,
    regularly ridden by a lady touched in wind."--Weekly Paper.

This doesn't matter if the mare is all right.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO JAMES IN THE BATH.

  Without the bolted door at muse I stand,
  My restive sponge and towel in my hand.
  Thus to await you, Jimmy, is not strange,
  But as I wait I mark a woeful change.
  Time was when wrathfully I should have heard
  Loud jubilation mock my hope deferred;
  For who, first in the bathroom, fit and young,
  Would, as he washed, refrain from giving tongue,
  Nor chant his challenge from the soapy deep,
  Inspired by triumph and renewed by sleep?
  Then how is this? Here have I waited long,
  Yet heard no crash of surf, no snatch of song.
  James, I am sad, forgetting to be cold;
  Does this decorum mean that we grow old?
  I knew you, James, as clamorous in your bath
  As porpoises that thresh the ocean-path;
  Oh! as you bathed when we were happy boys,
  You drowned the taps with inharmonious noise;
  Above the turmoil of the lathered wave
  How you would bellow ditties of the brave!
  How, wilder that the sea-mew, through the foam
  Whistle shrill strains that agonised your home.
  In the brimmed bath you revelled; all the floor
  Was swamped with spindrift; underneath the door
  The maddened water gushed, while strong and high
  Your piercing top-note staggered passers-by.
  But now I hear the running taps alone,
  A faint and melancholy monotone;
  Or just a gentle swirl when sober hope
  Searches the bath's profound to salve the soap.
  Sadly I kick the unresponsive door;
  Youth, with its blithe ablutions, is no more.

  W.K.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN A GOOD CAUSE.

