The portions of the palace in use for the marriage included the Presence Chamber, Queen Anne's
Drawing-room, the Guard-room, the Grand Staircase, with the Colonnade, the Chapel Royal, and
the Throne-room. On the Queen's marriage-day, rooms, staircase, and colonnade were lined with
larger and smaller galleries for the accommodation of privileged spectators. The seats had
crimson cushions with gold-coloured fringe, warming up the cold light and shade of a February
day, while the white and gay-coloured dresses of the ladies and the number of wedding favours
contributed to the gaiety of the scene. A Queen's wedding favours were not greatly different
from those of humbler persons, and consisted of the stereotyped white riband, silver lace,
and orange blossoms, except where loyalty indulged in immense bouquets of riband, and "massive
silver bullion, having in the centre what might almost be termed branches of orange blossoms."
The most eccentrically disposed favours seem to have been those of the mace-bearers, whose
white "knots" were employed to tie up on the wearers' shoulders the large gold chains worn
with the black dress of the officials. The uniformity of the gathering was broken by "burly
Yeomen of the Guard, with their massive halberts, slim Gentlemen-at-Arms with their lighter
'partisans,'.... elderly pages of State, almost infantile pages of honour, officers of the
Lord Chamberlain's Office, officers of the Woods and Forests, embroidered heralds and shielded
cuirassiers, robed prelates, stoled priests, and surpliced singing-boys."

Among the guests, though not in the procession, loudly cheered as on other occasions, was the
Duke of Wellington, who had seen the bride christened. People thought they noticed him bending
under his load of years, tottering to the last step of all, but the old soldier was still to
grace many a peaceful ceremony. In his company, far removed this day from the smoke of cannon
and the din of battle, walked more than one gallant brother-in-arms, the Marquis of Anglesey,
Lord Hill, &c.

The chapel was also made sumptuous for the occasion. Its carved and painted roof was picked
out anew. The space within the chancel was lined and hung with crimson velvet, the communion-table
covered with magnificent gold plate.

The Queen's procession began with drums and trumpets, and continued with pursuivants, heralds,
pages, equeries, and the different officers of the Household till it reached the members of
the Royal Family. These ranged from the farthest removed in relationship, Princess Sophia of
Gloucester, through the Queen's young cousins in the Cambridge family, with much admiration
bestowed on the beautiful child, Princess Mary, and the exceedingly attractive young girl,
Princess Augusta, to another and a venerable Princess Augusta--one of the elder daughters of
George III., an aged lady upwards of seventy, who then made her final appearance in public.
Doubtless she had been among the company who were present at the last royal marriage in St.
James's, on the night of the 8th of April, 1795, forty-five years before, a marriage so widely
removed in every particular from this happy wedding. The two royal Dukes of Cambridge and Sussex
walked next, the Lord Chamberlain and Vice-Chamberlain, with Lord Melbourne between, bearing
the Sword of State before the Queen.

Her Majesty's train was carried by twelve unmarried ladies, her bridesmaids. Five of these,
Lady Fanny Cowper, Lady Mary Grimston, Lady Adelaide Paget, Lady Caroline Gordon Lennox, and
Lady Catherine Stanhope, had been among her Majesty's train-bearers at the coronation. Of the
three other fair train-bearers on that occasion, one at least, Lady Anne Wentworth Fitzwilliam,
was already a wedded wife. The remaining seven bridesmaids were Lady Elizabeth West, Lady Eleanor
Paget, Lady Elizabeth Howard, Lady Ida Hay, Lady Jane Bouverie, Lady Mary Howard, and Lady
Sarah Villiers. These noble maidens were in white satin like their royal mistress, but for
her orange blossoms they wore white roses. Still more than on their former appearance together,
the high-bred English loveliness of the party attracted universal admiration.

The Master of the Horse and the Mistress of the Robes, the Ladies of the Bedchamber, Maids
of Honour, and Women of the Bedchamber followed, closed in by Yeomen of the Guard and Gentlemen-at-Arms.

In the chapel there had been a crowd of English nobility and foreign ambassadors awaiting the
arrival of Prince Albert, when at twenty minutes past twelve he walked up the aisle, carrying
a prayer-book covered with green velvet. He advanced, bowing to each side, followed by his
supporters to the altar-rail, before which stood four chairs of State, provided for the Queen,
the Prince, and, to right and left of them, Queen Adelaide and the Duchess of Kent. The Queen-dowager
was in her place, wearing a dress of purple velvet and ermine; the bridegroom kissed her hand
and entered into conversation with her, while his father and brother took their seats near him.

The Queen entered the chapel at twenty-five minutes to one, and immediately proceeded to her
chair in front of the altar-rails. She knelt down and prayed, and then seated herself. Her
mother was on her left side. Behind her stood her bridesmaids and train-bearers. On stools
to right and left sat the members of the Royal Family. The Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Bishop of London were already at the altar. In a few minutes the Queen and the Prince advanced
to the communion-table. The service was the beautiful, simple service of the Church of England,
unchanged in any respect. In reply to the question, "Who giveth this woman to be married to
this man?" the Duke of Sussex presented himself. The Christian-names "Albert" and "Victoria"
were all the names used. Both Queen and Prince answered distinctly and audibly. The Prince
undertook to love, comfort, and honour his wife, to have and to hold her for better, for worse,
for richer, for poorer; the Queen promised to obey as well as to love and cherish her husband
till death them did part, like any other pair plighting their troth. When the ring was put
on the finger, at a concerted signal the Park and Tower guns fired a royal salute and all London
knew that her Majesty was a married woman.

The usual congratulations were exchanged amongst the family party before they re-formed themselves
into the order of procession. The Duke of Sussex in his character of father kissed his niece
heartily on the cheek besides shaking her by the hand. The Queen stepped quickly across and
kissed her aunt, Queen Adelaide, whose hand Prince Albert saluted again. The procession returned
in the same order, except that the bride and bridegroom walked side by side and hand in hand,
the wedding-ring being seen on the ungloved hand. Her Majesty spoke once or twice to Lord Uxbridge,
the Lord Chamberlain, as if expressing her wishes with regard to the procession. Her paleness
had been succeeded by a little flush, and she was smiling brightly. On the appearance of the
couple they were received with clapping of hands and waving of handkerchiefs. In the Throne-room
the marriage was attested and the register signed "on a splendid table prepared for the purpose."

The whole company then repaired to Buckingham Palace, Prince Albert driving in the carriage
with the Queen. The sight of the pair was hailed everywhere along the short route with loud
cheering, to the joyous sound of which "the Queen walked up the grand staircase, in the presence
of her court, leaning on her husband's arm."

An eye-witness--the Dowager Lady Lyttelton, who, both as a Lady of the Bedchamber and Governess
to the royal children, knew the Queen and Prince well--has recorded her impression of the chief
actor in the scene. "The Queen's look and manner were very pleasing, her eyes much swollen
with tears, but great happiness in her countenance, and her look of confidence and comfort
at the Prince when they walked away as man and wife was very pleasing to see. I understand
she is in extremely high spirits since; such a new thing to her to dare to be unguarded in
conversation with anybody, and, with her frank and fearless nature, the restraints she has
hitherto been under from one reason or another with everybody must have been most painful."
The wedding-breakfast with the toast of the day followed, then the departure for Windsor, on
which the skies smiled, for the clouds suddenly cleared away and the sun shone out on the journey
and the many thousand spectators on the way.

The Queen and Prince drove in one of the five carriages--four of which contained the suite
inseparable from a couple of such rank. The first carriage conveyed the Ladies in Waiting,
succeeded by a party of cavalry. The travelling chariot came next in order, and was enthusiastically
hailed, bride and bridegroom responding graciously to the acclamations. Her Majesty's travelling
dress was bridal-like: a pelisse of white satin trimmed with swans' down, a white satin bonnet
and feather. The Prince was in dark clothes. The party left before four, but did not arrive
at Windsor till nearly seven--long after darkness had descended on the landscape. Eton and
Windsor were in the height of excitement, in a very frenzy of rejoicing. The travellers wended
their way through a living mass in brilliantly illuminated streets, amidst the sending up of
showers of rockets, the ringing of bells, the huzzaing of the people, the glad shouting of
the Eton boys. Her Majesty was handed from the carriage by the Prince, she took his arm and
the two entered the castle after a right royal welcome home.

Elizabeth Barrett Browning celebrated this event also in her eloquent fashion.

  "She vows to love who vowed to rule, the chosen at her side,
   Let none say 'God preserve the Queen,' but rather 'Bless the Bride.'
   None blow the trump, none bend the knee, none violate the dream
   Wherein no monarch but a wife, she to herself may seem;
   Or if you say, 'Preserve the Queen,' oh, breathe it inward, low--
   She is a woman and beloved, and 'tis enough but so.
   Count it enough, thou noble Prince, who tak'st her by the hand,
   And claimest for thy lady-love our Lady of the land.
   And since, Prince Albert, men have called thy spirit high and rare,
   And true to truth and brave for truth as some at Augsburg were,
   We charge thee by thy lofty thoughts and by thy poet-mind,
   Which not by glory and degree takes measure of mankind,
   Esteem that wedded hand less dear for sceptre than for ring,
   And hold her uncrowned womanhood to be the royal thing."

Up in London and all over the country there were feasts and galas for rich and poor. There
was a State banquet, attended by very high and mighty company, in the Banqueting-room at St.
James's. Grand dinners were given by the members of the Cabinet; the theatres were free for
the night to great and small; at each the National Anthem was sung amidst deafening applause;
at Drury Lane there was a curious emblematical ballet--like a revival of the old masques, ending
with a representation of the Queen and Prince surrounded by fireworks, which no doubt afforded
immense satisfaction to the audience.

The Queen's wedding-cake was three hundred pounds in weight, three yards in circumference,
and fourteen inches in depth. In recognition of the national interest of the wedding, the figure
of Hymen, on the top, was replaced by Britannia in the act of blessing the royal pair, who,
as a critic observed, were represented somewhat incongruously in the costume of ancient Rome.
At the feet of the image of Prince Albert, several inches high, lay a dog, the emblem of fidelity.
At the feet of the image of her Majesty nestled a pair of turtle-doves, the token of love and
felicity. A Cupid wrote in a volume, spread open on his knees, for the edification of the capering
Cupids around, the auspicious "10th of February, 1840," the date of the marriage; and there
were the usual bouquets of white flowers, tied with true lovers' knots of white riband, to
be distributed to the guests at the wedding breakfast and kept as mementoes of the event.

There were other trophies certain to be cherished and preserved among family treasures, and
perhaps shown to future generations, as we sometimes see, turning up in museums and art collections,
relics of the marriages of Mary Tudor and Catharine of Aragon. These were the bridesmaids'
brooches. They were the royal gift to the noble maidens, several of whom had, two years before,
received rings from the same source to commemorate the services of the train-bearers at the
Coronation. These brooches were in the shape of a bird, the body being formed entirely of turquoises,
the eyes were rubies, and the beak a diamond, the claws were of pure gold, and rested on pearls
of great size and value. The design and workmanship were according to the Queen's directions.

The twelve beautiful girls who received the gifts have since fulfilled their various destinies--each
has "dreed her weird," according to the solemn, sad old Scotch phrase. Some, perhaps the happiest,
have passed betimes into the silent land; the survivors are elderly women, with granddaughters
as lovely as they themselves were in their opening day. One became a princess--Lady Sarah Villiers
married Prince Nicholas Esterhazy. Two are duchesses--Lady Elizabeth Sackville-West, Duchess
of Bedford; and Lady Catherine Stanhope, married first to Lord Dalmeny, eldest son of the Earl
of Rosebery, and secondly to the Duke of Cleveland. Three are countesses--Lady Caroline Gordon
Lennox, Countess of Bessborough; Lady Mary Grimston, Countess of Radnor; and Lady Ida Hay,
Countess of Gainsborough. Lady Fanny Cowper, whose beauty was much admired by Leslie, the painter,
married Lord Jocelyn, eldest son of the Earl of Roden. Lord Jocelyn was one of the victims
to cholera in 1854. He was seized while on duty at Buckingham Palace, and died after two hours'
illness in Lady Palmerston's drawing-room. Lady Mary Howard became the wife of Baron Foley.
One bridesmaid, Lady Jane Bouverie, married a simple country gentleman, Mr. Ellis, of Glenaquoich.

CHAPTER IX. A ROYAL PAIR.

The Queen and the Prince were only one whole day holding state by themselves at Windsor. It
is not given to a royal couple to flee away into the wilds or to shut themselves up from their
friends and the world like meaner people; whether a prolonged interval of retirement be spent
in smiling or in sulking, according to cynical bachelors and spinsters, it is not granted to
kings and queens. On the single day of grace which her Majesty claimed she wrote to Baron Stockmar
the emphatic estimate of the man of her choice. "There cannot exist a dearer, purer, nobler
being in the world than the Prince." A young bride's fond judgment; but to her was given the
deep joy of finding that time only confirmed the proud and glad conviction of that first day
of wedlock.

On Wednesday, the 12th, the royal couple at Windsor were rejoined by the Duchess of Kent, the
Duke of Coburg, the hereditary Prince, and the whole Court. Then two more days of holiday were
spent with something of the heartiness of old times, when brides and bridegrooms did not seem
either as if they were ashamed of their happiness or too selfish to share it with their friends.
No doubt there were feasting and toasting, and there was merry dancing each night.

On Friday, the 14th, the Court returned to London, that the principal person might gratify
the people by appearing in public and that she might take up once more the burden of a sovereign's
duties. Addresses were received from the Houses of Parliament. The theatres were visited in
state. On the 19th of the month the Queen held her first levee after her marriage, when the
Prince took his place at her left hand. On Sunday, the 20th, the newly-married couple attended
divine service together in the Chapel Royal, St. James's, and were loudly cheered on their
way through the Park.

Buckingham Palace was to continue the Queen's town residence, but St. James's, by virtue of
its seniority in age and priority in historical associations, remained for a considerable time
the theatre of all the State ceremonials which were celebrated in town until gradually modifications
of the rule were established. A chapel was fitted up in Buckingham Palace, which accommodated
the household in comparative privacy, and prevented the inconvenience of driving in all states
of the health and the weather for public worship at the neighbouring palace chapel. It was
found that there was better accommodation for holding Drawing-rooms, and less crowding and
inconvenience to the ladies attending them, when the Drawing-rooms were held at Buckingham
Palace instead of St. James's. The levees are nearly all that is left to St. James's, in addition
to the fact that it contains the offices of the Lord Chamberlain, &c. But the place where her
Majesty was proclaimed Queen and wedded deserves a parting word.

The visitor to St. James's passes up the great staircase, which has been trodden by the feet
of so many generations, bound on such different errands. Here and there, from a picture-frame
high up on the wall, a painted face looks down immovably on the comings and goings below. The
Guard-room has a few stands of glittering arms and one or two women's portraits; altogether
a different Guard-room from what it must have been when it received its name. Beyond is the
Armoury, where arms bristle in sheaves and piles, surmounted by hauberks and casques, smooth
and polished as if they had never been dinted in battle or rusted with blood. Queen Anne's
Drawing-room, spacious and stately, is resplendent in yellow satin. Old St. James's has sustained
a recent renovation, its faded gorgeousness has been renewed, not without a difficult compromise
between the unhesitating magnificence of the past and the subdued taste of the present day.
The compromise is honourable to the taste of the decorator, for there is no stinting of rich
effect, stinting which would have been out of place, in the great doors, picked out and embossed,
the elaborately devised and wrought walls and ceilings, the huge chandeliers, &c. But warm,
deep crimson is relieved by cool pale green, and sage wainscot meets the dull red of feathery
leaves on other walls. The Queen's Closet, which misses its meaning when it is called a boudoir,
with the steel-like embroidery on its walls, matching the grey blue of its cut velvet hangings,
recalls the natural pauses in a busy life, when the Queen awaits the call of public duty, or
withdraws for a breathing space from the pressure of fatiguing obligations.

In more than one of the principal rooms there are low brass screens or railings drawn across
the room, to be used as barricades; and the uninitiated hears with due respect that behind
those the ambassadors are supposed to congregate, while these fence the approach to the throne.

In spite of such precautions, large Drawing-rooms became latterly hard-pressed crowds struggling
to make their way, and the State-rooms of Buckingham Palace were put in request as affording
better facilities for these ceremonies.

There is a picture gallery where a long row of Kings and Queens, in their full-length portraits,
stand like Banquo's descendants. The portraits begin with that of bluff King Hal, very bluff
and strident. According to Mr. Hare's account, which he has taken from Holinshed, Henry VIII.
got St. James's when it was an hospital for "fourteen maidens that were leprous," and having
pensioned off the sisters, "reared a fine mansion and park" in the room of the hospital. The
picture of his young son is a quaint, slim edition of his father. There is a sad and stiff
Mary Tudor, who laid down her embittered and brokenhearted life in this palace, and by her
side, as she seldom was in the flesh, a high-ruffed, yellow-haired, peaked-chinned Elizabeth--a
noble shrew. The British Solomon has the sword-proof padding of his doublet and trunk hose
very conspicuous. A wide contrast is a romantic, tragic King Charles, with a melancholy remembrance
in his long face and drooping eyes of the day when he bade farewell to the world at St. James's
and left it for the scaffold at Whitehall. His swarthy periwigged sons balance the sister queens,
Mary and Anne. St. James's, like Kensington and Hampton Court, seems somehow peculiarly associated
with them. Though other and more striking royal figures dwelt there both before and after the
two last of the reigning Stuarts, they have left a distinct impression of themselves, together
with a Sir Peter Lely and a Sir Godfrey Kneller flavour about all the more prominent quarters
of the palace. The likenesses of Mary and Anne occur as they must have appeared before they
lost the comeliness of youth, when St. James's was their home, the house of their father, the
Duke of York and Anne his Duchess, where the two sisters wedded in turn a princely hero and
a princely nobody.

In the Throne-room, amidst the portraits of later sovereigns to which royal robes and the painter's
art have supplied an adventitious dignity, there are fine likenesses of the Queen and Prince
Albert, which must have been taken soon after their marriage, when they were in the first bloom
of their youth and happiness. Her Majesty wears a royal mantle and the riband of the Garter,
like her compeers; behind her rise the towers of Windsor.

In the double corridor, along which two streams of company flow different ways to and from
the Presence-chamber, as the blood flows in the veins and arteries, are more pictures--those
of some charming children. A stout little Prince Rupert before he ever smelt the smoke of battle
or put pencil to paper. Representations of almost equally old-world-looking children of the
Georgian era by their royal mother's knee, one child bearing such a bow as figures often in
the hands of children in the portraits of the period; a princely boy in miniature robes of
State, with a queen's hand on his shoulder; a little solitary flaxen-haired child with a tambourine.
The bow has long been unbent, the royal mother and child are together again, the music of the
tambourine is mute.

In the Banqueting-room there are great battle-pieces by land and sea from Tournay to Trafalgar,
like a memory of the Hall of Battles at Versailles.

The Chapel Royal, where the Queen was made a wife, has ceased in a measure to be a royal place
of worship. Still within its narrow bounds and plain walls a highly aristocratic congregation
have, if they choose, a right to the services of the dean and sub-dean and the five-and-thirty
chaplains--not to say of the bishops duly appointed to officiate on special occasions. Not
only is the royal closet still in readiness furnished with its chairs of State, there are other
closets or small galleries for the Household, peeresses and their daughters, &c. The simplest
pew below belongs to the Lord Chamberlain, the Lord Steward, peers and their sons, or members
of Parliament, &c. The Chapel Royal, like the State-rooms, is fresh and spruce from renewal.
It has, however, wisely avoided all departure from the original character of the building,
which has nothing but the carved roof and the great square window to distinguish it from any
other chapel of the same size and style. It is difficult to realise that it was here Queen
Mary listened attentively to Bishop Burnet, and Queen Caroline was guilty of talking, while
Princess Emily brought her little dog under her arm. Nor is it easy to fancy the brilliance
of the scene in the quiet place when it was lined from floor to ceiling with tier upon tier
of seats for the noblest in the land, when every inch of standing-room had its fit occupant,
and a princely gathering was grouped before the glittering altar to hear a Queen plight her troth.

St. James's has still a royal resident in the sole surviving member of the great family of
George III., the venerable Duchess of Cambridge, who lives in the north wing of the palace.
Marlborough House and Clarence House are in the immediate vicinity, indeed the last is so near
that it is reached by a covered way. And as if to make the sense of the neighbourhood of a
cluster of royal establishments more vivid, and the thought of the younger generation of the
Royal Family more present in the old place, as the visitor passes through its corridors the
cannon in the park peals forth the announcement of the birth of the last of her Majesty's grandchildren.

On the 28th of February, a little more than a fortnight after the marriage, came the Prince's
first practical experience of its cost to him. His father left on his return to Coburg. "He
said to me," the Queen wrote in her Journal, "that I had never known a father, and could not
therefore feel what he did. His childhood had been very happy. Ernest, he said, was now the
only one remaining here of all his earliest ties and recollections; but if I continued to love
him as I did now, I could make up for all.... Oh! how I did feel for my dearest, precious husband
at this moment! Father, brother, friends, country, all has he left, and all for me. God grant
that I may be the happy person, the most happy person to make this dearest, blessed being happy
and contented. What is in my power to make him happy I will do."

Prince Ernest remained in England nearly three months after his father had left.

Early in March a step was taken to render the Prince's position clearer and more secure. Letters
patent were issued conferring on him precedence next to the Queen. How necessary the step was,
even in this country, towards a conclusion which appears to us to-day so natural as to be beyond
dispute, may be gathered from the circumstance that, even after the marriage, objections were
made to the Prince's sitting by the Queen's side in the State carriage on State occasions,
and to his occupying a chair of State next the throne when she opened and prorogued Parliament.

Prince Albert proposed for himself a wise and generous course, which he afterwards embodied
in fitting words--"to sink his own individual existence in that of his wife, to aim at no power
by himself or for himself, to shun all ostentation, to assume no separate responsibility before
the public; continually and anxiously to watch every part of the public business in order to
be able to advise and assist her at any moment, in any of the multifarious and difficult questions
brought before her--sometimes political, or social, or personal--as the natural head of the
family, superintendent of her household, manager of her private affairs, her sole confidential
adviser in politics and only assistant in her communications with the affairs of the Government."
In fact, the Prince was the Queen's private secretary in all save the name, uniting the two
departments, political and social, of such an office which had hitherto been held separately
by Lord Melbourne and Baroness Lehzen.

Prince Albert discharged the double duty with the authority of his rank and character, and
especially of his relations to the Queen. He expressed his object very modestly in writing
to his father: "I endeavour quietly to be of as much use to Victoria in her position as I can."
The post was a most delicate and difficult one, and would have been absolutely untenable, had
it not been for the perfect confidence and good understanding always existing between the Queen
and the Prince, and for his remarkable command of temper, and manly forbearance and courtesy,
under every provocation, to all who approached him. Perhaps a still more potent agent was a
quality which was dimly felt from the beginning, and is fully recognised to-day--his sincerity
of nature and honesty of purpose. In the painful revelations which, alas! time is apt to bring
of double-dealing and self-seeking on the part of men in power, no public character of his
day stands out more honourably in the strong light which posterity is already concentrating
on the words and actions of the past, than does Prince Albert for undeniable truthfulness and
disinterestedness. Men may still cavil at his conclusions, and maintain that he theorised and
systematised and was tempted to interfere too much, but they have long ceased to question his
perfect integrity and single-heartedness, his rooted aversion to all trickery and to deceit
in every form. "He was an honest man and a noble prince who did good work," is now said universally
of the Queen's husband; and honesty is not only the highest praise, it is a great power in
dealing with one's fellows.

But it was not in a day or without many struggles that anything approaching to his aim was
achieved. The inevitable irritation caused by the transfer of power and the disturbance of
existing arrangements on the part of a new comer, the sensitive jealousy which even the Prince's
foreign birth occasioned, had to be overcome before the first approach to success could be
attained.

We can remember that some of the old Scotch Jacobite songs--very sarcastic where German royal
houses were concerned--experienced a temporary revival, certainly more in jest than in earnest,
and with a far higher appreciation of the fun than of the malice of the sentiment. The favourite
was "The wee, wee German Lairdie," and began in this fashion:--

  Wha the Diel hae we gotten for a King,
  But a wee, wee German Lairdie?
  And when they gaed to bring him hame
  He was delvin' in his little kail-yardie.

The last verse declared:--

  He'a pu'ed the rose o'English blooms,
  He's broken the harp o'Irish, clowns,
  But Scotia's thistle will jag his thoomba,
  The wee, wee German Lairdie.

A prophecy honoured in its entire breach.

Even tried and trusty friends grown old in Court service could not make up their minds at once
to the changed order of affairs, or resign, without an effort to retain it, their rule when
it came into collision with the wishes of the new head of the household; Prince Albert, in
writing frankly to his old comrade Prince Lowenstein, said he was very happy and contented,
but the difficulty in filling his place with proper dignity was that he was only the husband
and not the master of the house. The Queen had to assert, like a true woman, when appealed
to on the subject, that she had solemnly engaged at the altar to obey as well as to love and
honour her husband, and "this sacred obligation she could consent neither to limit nor define."

It may be stated that, in spite of the fidelity and devotion of those who surrounded the Queen,
the old system under which the arrangements of the palaces were conducted stood in great need
of reform. Anything more cumbrous, complicated, and inconvenient than the plan adopted cannot
easily be conceived. The great establishments were not subject to one independent, responsible
rule, they were divided into various departments under as many different controlling bodies.
Rights and privileges, sinecures and perquisites, bristled on all sides, and he who would reform
them must face the unpopularity which is almost always the first experience of every reformer.
There is a graphic account of the situation in the "Life of the Prince Consort," and "Baron
Stockmar's Memoirs." "The three great Officers of State, the Lord Steward, the Lord Chamberlain,
and the Master of the Horse, all of them officials who varied with each change of the Ministry,
and were appointed without regard to any special qualifications for their office, had each
a governing voice in the regulation of the household.... Thus one section of the palace was
supposed to be under the Lord Chamberlain's charge, another under that of the Lord Steward,
while as to a third it was uncertain whose business it was to look after it. These officials
were responsible for all that concerned the interior of the building, but the outside had to
be taken care of by the office of Woods and Forests. The consequence was, that as the inside
cleaning of the windows belonged to the Lord Chamberlain's department, the degree of light
to be admitted into the palace depended proportionably on the well-timed and good understanding
between the Lord Chamberlain's Office and that of Woods and Forests. One portion of the personnel
of the establishment again was under the authority of the Lord Chamberlain, another under that
of the Master of the Horse, and a third under the jurisdiction of the Lord Steward." "The Lord
Steward," writes Baron Stockmar, "finds the fuel and lays the fire, and the Lord Chamberlain
lights it.... In the same manner the Lord Chamberlain provides all the lamps, and the Lord
Steward must clean, trim, and light them. Before a pane of glass or a cupboard door could be
mended, the sanction of so many officials had to be obtained, that often months elapsed before
the repairs were made."

One is irresistibly reminded of the dilemma of the unfortunate King of Spain, who died from
a feverish attack brought on by a prolonged exposure to a great fire, because it was not etiquette
for the monarch to rise, and the grandee whose prerogative it was to move the royal chair happened
to be out of the way.

"As neither the Lord Chamberlain nor the Master of the Horse has a regular deputy residing
in the palace, more than two-thirds of all the male and female servants are left without a
master in the house. They can come on and go off duty as they choose, they can remain absent
hours and hours on their days of waiting, or they may commit any excess or irregularity; there
is nobody to observe, to correct, or to reprimand them. The various details of internal arrangement
whereon depend the well-being and comfort of the whole establishment, no one is cognisant of,
or responsible for. There is no officer responsible for the cleanliness, order, and security
of the rooms and offices throughout the palace."

Doubtless, it was under this remarkable condition of the royal household that a considerable
robbery of silver plate from an attic in which it was stored took place at Windsor Castle in
1841. Massive silver encasings of tables, borders of mirrors, fire-dogs and candelabra, together
with the silver ornaments of Tippoo Saib's tent, disappeared in this way.

