"Very well," said Mrs. Heedman, getting up. "Now you must try to sleep a little. How very good
and merciful God has been to you, Charlie, to spare your life in this illness! If it is His
will, I trust I shall be able day by day to teach you how to devote the life He has given you
to His service."

"Am I going to be with you always, Mrs. Heedman?" cried Charlie, opening his eyes very wide.

"Yes, I hope so," she answered. After a little more talking, principally on Charlie's side,
who confided to her his private opinion of the cross Mrs. Wood, and his pleasure to think he
was not going back to her any more, Mrs. Heedman left the room, and Charlie went to sleep.

CHAPTER III.

ADELAIDE ROW.

The house of the Heedmans was the end cottage of a long row, built for and occupied by the
miners employed at the colliery that you might see in the distance. There were several rows
of these cottages, but Adelaide Row, in which the Heedmans lived, was certainly the best in
appearance. It was farthest from the mines, and was sheltered from the coal dust by its less
fortunate neighbours. The houses looked cleaner and brighter altogether, and the little gardens
flourished better.

John Heedman's garden was the pride of his heart, and the admiration and envy of the rest of
"the Row." It certainly did look very gay and pretty. There were bright China-asters, sweet-scented
stocks, French marigolds, rose bushes laden with blossoms, little clusters of candytuft, Virginia-stock,
mignonette, and many other flowers, contrasting well in colour, and grouped in such good taste.

If John Heedman took a pride in his garden, Mrs. Heedman certainly took a pride in her house.
Not that their furniture was more expensive than that of many of their neighbours, but it was
in good order and neatly arranged. Nice white curtains were up at the windows; a few sweet-smelling
flowers stood in a glass; and in a corner were some bookshelves, made and painted by John Heedman
himself, after work-hours, and very well stocked with good books; altogether there was an air
of cleanliness, comfort, and refinement over all that made you wish to know the owners.

Mrs. Heedman often said in answer to her neighbours' remarks "that she must spend a deal of
money over her house."--"It costs me nothing but a little thought and extra work. The poorest
of us may indulge in order and cleanliness indeed, when you come to think of it, dirt and disorder
cost the most, because your furniture gets soiled, and knocked about, and destroyed."

After Mrs. Heedman left Charlie, she began to prepare her husband's tea in the next room; and
nicely she looked, as she moved lightly about in her clean light-print dress and white collar,
her dark hair smoothly and plainly arranged, and a smile on her face. It was a face that made
you look twice. Her eyes were so calm, so full of peace, you felt instinctively it was that
peace which God alone can give. Some people do not believe that Christianity can make them
happy; that is, because they have never felt it in their hearts. It is a peace which passeth
all understanding. She was thinking of Charlie; how he would learn to love her, and please
God; what a scholar he would be, and how carefully she would train him. She was trying to picture
what he would be like if he lived to grow up, when John Heedman opened the door.

"Tea will be ready in a minute, John," she said, looking up; "I've been sitting with that dear
child, and the afternoon has flown I scarcely know how. He got a turn for the better about
one o'clock, and woke up quite conscious and sensible;" and stepping softly to the door, she
beckoned him to follow. They both stood looking at Charlie as he slept. He was very pale, traces
of tears were still on his face, and one little thin white hand hung listlessly over the side
of the bed. John Heedman stooped and touched it gently with his own rough, strong hand. "Poor
little one!" he murmured.

That night, as John Heedman and his wife sat at tea, they determined to adopt Charlie, and
make him as their own.

"I think," said John Heedman, "we ought to accept this child as a sacred charge from God, sent
to us to be taken care of and trained for Him. Our duty seems plain enough; it is true we shall
not be able to save so much, but perhaps there was a danger of our getting too fond of our
bit of money; and God has seen this and sent the child, that, through it we may lend the money
to Him. We shall have our treasure in heaven, instead of laying it up on earth."

"That is true," said Mrs. Heedman. "We shall be no poorer for what we spend on the child; and
as for our old age, we will trust to the Lord--He will provide."

In a week's time Charlie was able to sit up; his favourite seat was at the open window, looking
out into the pretty garden. He would sit for hours watching the gay butterflies and busy bees,
roving from flower to flower, and gazing up at the ever-changing sky. The soft, fleecy clouds
that sailed along so gracefully, Charlie liked to think were the robes of angels on their way
to heaven with little children.

In a few weeks' time, to his great joy, he was strong enough to go back to school; he was fond
of learning, and the Heedmans were anxious for him to have as much schooling as they could
possibly afford.

John Heedman had enjoyed a good plain education himself; he was intended for a tradesman, but
his father died suddenly, and his mother and young sister being left dependent upon him, he
went to work down the mine, as the wages were higher than he could get at any other employment.
It was a great disappointment and trial to him, you may be sure; but he very wisely made the
best of it, and thought to himself, "Well, if I am only to be a miner all my life, it does
not follow that I need neglect my learning: it will always give me pleasure, and occupy my
mind; and I shall be serving God better by improving myself, and using the powers He has given me."

He carried out this idea, and became a thoughtful, intelligent, well-informed man, respected
both by his employers and fellow-workmen, and, what was better than all, he found favour in
the sight of God. By the grace of God he was led to feel himself a poor sinner, and sought
forgiveness through the precious blood of Christ.

He made the good choice in his youth. He sought the Lord early, and found him, and He escaped
the terrible anguish and suffering that attends repentance after a long life of careless sin.

All through life he had the love of the Saviour to help and cheer him on his way; in temptation
he had God to look to for strength; in sorrow he had the Saviour to turn to for sympathy and
help. Each night he asked forgiveness for the sins of the day, and each morning he sought a
blessing and preservation, and went forth with a light heart, praising God, and full of thankfulness
to Him for His mercy.

There was no anxious care for the future, in his heart he knew that his heavenly Father would
guide him and care for him day by day.

It seems most unaccountable that any one should willingly refuse all this happiness; and yet
how many boys and girls there are who never pause to think what choice they have made, and
which master they are serving. You must be serving one, either God or the world. Which it is
your own heart will tell you. Remember God will have no half-service. He has said, "He that
is not with Me is against Me."

CHAPTER IV.

GOOD RESOLUTIONS NOT KEPT.

Four years of Charlie's life soon passed swiftly away in his pleasant and happy home. He is
now twelve years of age, and has grown a tall, strong, healthy boy. His blue eyes are just
as merry, and his frank, fearless face as sunburnt, as when we first made his acquaintance
on the pier. He is generous, grateful, and affectionate, and John Heedman and his wife--his
good "father and mother," as he calls them now--are very dear to him.

I need scarcely tell you that they have never regretted adopting him, and could not love him
better, or be more proud of him, if he were their own son. They have found him from the first
clever at his learning, and painstaking; full of gratitude and love to themselves; honest and
truthful; anxious to serve God, and really trying to do so in his way. But one thing has troubled
them: for the last two years they have seen him gradually giving himself up more and more to
the dangerous habit of "putting off." He had become, unconsciously, a very slave to it; it
required quite an effort on his part to do any duty at once.

Perhaps some boys who read this are inclined to exclaim, "Was that all?" But if they think
for a moment, I am sure they will see that it is very dangerous, because they are inclined
to think lightly of it.

Procrastination, or the habit of "putting off," is one of Satan's great temptations. Many a
boy may be tempted to give way to it who would shrink from telling an untruth, or committing
any flagrant sin; but Satan knows well enough how soon and how surely it will lead them into sin.

Unfortunately, Charlie had no idea how this habit was creeping upon him; he always contrived
to find some excuse for putting off that satisfied himself if it did not satisfy others; and
when it led him to do wrong, or into misfortune of any kind, he always fancied that something
or some one else was to blame.

"Charlie," said Mrs. Heedman one morning, just before school-time, "did you learn your lessons
last night?"

"No, mother," answered Charlie; "I can learn them this morning; there's time enough."

"Do get your books then, and begin; you have only a quarter of an hour."

"All right, mother dear," he answered, gaily; "I'll get them in a minute; there's time enough;"
but Charlie was very much interested in teaching his dog Jumper to sit up, and kept putting
off until at last the quarter of an hour was gone, and he found he had only just time to get
to school. Grumbling at the time for flying so quickly, he snatched up one of his school books,
threw his satchel with the rest over his shoulder, and started off at a quick pace, learning
his lesson as he went. Of course he could not always look where he was going, and the consequence
was he knocked up against people, and trod on their toes, and so far from apologizing in his
ill-humour, he declared to himself that "it served them right; why didn't they get out of his way?"

The clock struck nine: Charlie was desperate; he quickened his pace almost to a run, and taking
a last glance at his lesson as he turned the corner, he came with a crash against a lamp-post,
that sent him backwards, his book flying out of his hand, his forehead bruised, and his nose
bleeding.

Poor Charlie sat on the ground almost stunned, and scarcely knowing for the moment what it
was, or where he was. At last he got slowly up, gathered his books together, and turned towards
home, holding his handkerchief to his bruised face, and feeling very miserable.

"It was all that stupid old lamp-post, mother!" he said angrily, when he was telling his tale
to her.

"No, no, Charlie," said Mrs. Heedman; "was it not that stupid Charlie Scott, who did not look
where he was going?"

It was no use going to school that morning. The bruises were doctored, and Charlie, after learning
his lessons, took up an interesting book. He was fond of reading, and was soon deep in the
contents.

"Just run into Mrs. Brown's, next door, Charlie, will you, and ask if she can let me have the
bread tin I lent her yesterday," said Mrs. Heedman.

"Yes, mother, in a minute," answered Charlie, still reading on, and thinking, "There's time
enough; I dare say the bread is not ready." After a short time she spoke again, "Come, Charlie,
I'm waiting."

"Yes, mother, I'm coming," said Charlie, getting half off his chair, but still keeping his
eyes on the book. "I'll just finish this chapter," he thought; there were only two sentences
to read. When it was finished, he looked up, and saw his mother had gone herself for the tin.
She came in, looking weary and tired, for she had had a busy morning, and Charlie's conscience
smote him.

"Oh, mother, I'm so sorry," he exclaimed. "I thought I had time enough to finish the chapter."

"Charlie, I do wish you would learn to do a thing at once. I cannot bear to hear you so constantly
saying 'There's time enough,'" said his mother; "it makes me tremble for your future. A cousin
of mine was led into sin, and misery, and poverty, and at last died at enmity with his father,
and unreconciled to God, through 'putting off.' He gave way to the habit when he was a boy,
and it grew up with him unchecked."

Charlie was rather frightened at hearing this, and inwardly made some good resolutions; but
as they were made in his own strength alone, you will not be surprised to hear they were soon
swept away: however, he made, as he thought, a very fair beginning. When he was called to dinner,
he laid down his book and went at once--I am afraid there was not much credit due to him for
that, for he was very hungry,--and he got ready and set off in good time for afternoon school.

"Be sure you come straight home, Charlie," said Mrs. Heedman as he was going out; "your father's
cough was worse this morning, and I want you to run along to the pit with some warm wrappings
for him; the evenings are chilly now, and he feels the cold when he comes up."

"All right, mother dear, I'll not forget," said Charlie, waving his cap to her as he went out
of the gate. He was in an extra good humour with himself for having made the good resolutions
we told you of, and for having done so well since, quite forgetting that even the desire to
do better came from God.

The moment school was over, one of the boys caught hold of Charlie's arm, and launched into
a glowing description of a ship "nearly two feet long," that had been made a present to him,
finishing off with "She's splendid, and that's just all about it. I am going now to name her,
and launch her in that big pond in Thompson's field. Come along," he said, drawing Charlie
in the direction of the field as he spoke; "you shall give her the name, and I'll launch her."

"I'm afraid I can't go," said Charlie, looking miserable, and making a faint effort to get
his arm from Tom Brown's grasp.

"Why?" asked Tom.

"Because I promised to go straight home; and I have to take some clothes for father to the pit."

"Oh, that's it, is it?" exclaimed Tom. "Well, then, look here, your father won't be ready for
nearly half an hour yet--I know what time they come up,--and you'll be wandering about there,
cooling your heels, when you might as well be here."

"If I hadn't promised," thought Charlie, with a longing look in the direction of the pond.

"You needn't stay long," urged Tom. "The ship is close by; I hid her amongst some bushes so
as not to have to go home again."

"Don't go; remember your promise," whispered Charlie's conscience. "But I want to go so much,"
answered Charlie's selfish little heart.

"Don't go, it would be ungrateful: think of your father's kindness to you," whispered the voice
again. "I'm not ungrateful, and I mean to take the clothes," Charlie's heart answered, angrily.

The voice began to whisper again, something about it being a temptation, and he ought to ask
God's help, but Charlie turned a deaf ear.

Tom Brown, seeing Charlie hesitate, felt pretty sure he would give in. Leaving loose of his
arm, and moving off towards the field, he said, in a careless tone, "Come, make up your mind;
do one thing or the other. I don't care whether you go or not, only I can tell you you'll not
have such a chance again; Joe Denton would have jumped at it."

This had just the effect Tom intended. Charlie hurried after him, saying, "Well, let us be
quick then. I'll just stay five minutes; I daresay there's time enough."

The scruples of Charlie's conscience were silenced. Conscience is a dangerous thing to play
with, and it should be the prayer of every youth that God would strengthen him to keep his
conscience tender; never mind if it be difficult sometimes to maintain a good conscience: in
the end, as years go on, you will be thankful to find that it preserves from many a snare,
and gives a pleasure, and gains the confidence of those around you.

The launching went off most successfully, but the time had flown much quicker than the boys
had any idea of. Charlie was in full enjoyment of the honour of guiding the Fairy on her trial
trip round the pond, when he was terribly startled at hearing the church clock strike five.
In a moment he had dropped the string, caught up his satchel of books, and started off towards
home.

"Here, I say, wait a bit," called Tom after him; "what's the use of hurrying now? Your father
would be at home long since; you may as well stay another hour now." Charlie did not even stay
to listen, but tore along the dusty road, angry with himself, and still more angry with Tom.
He reached home out of breath, and found that his father and mother had just begun tea.

"Charlie, my boy, you're late," said his father, in his usual kind tone. His mother did not
speak, and Charlie noticed that she looked sad; but she was as kind as ever, and picked out
one of his favourite little well-browned cakes for him as he sat down to tea. Charlie felt
unhappy and repentant as he thought how ill he deserved all their care.

His father's cough was very troublesome; it was a loud, hollow, consumptive cough, most painful
to hear, and still more painful to suffer; but not a word of complaint escaped John Heedman's
lips. Charlie's unhappiness and repentance increased as he sat listening to it, and heard his
father say, in answer to a remark made by Mrs. Heedman, "Yes, I think the cold air has seized
my chest; that makes the cough worse just now."

Tea was out of the question with Charlie, and the little crisp cake lay untouched. "If they
would only scold me, or punish me, or do something to me," he thought, "I should feel better."

"How is it you are not getting on with your tea?" said Mrs. Heedman, looking at his plate.

Charlie immediately laid his head on the table, regardless of tea-things and everything else,
and burst into a flood of tears. "Oh, mother," he sobbed out, "I have been such a bad, wicked
fellow to-day. Why don't you and father scold me or do something to me? you are far too kind;
it makes me hate myself. I wish somebody would take away my new cricket bat, or steal Jumper,
I do." There was a great sobbing after this, partly, we think, at the mere thought of the terrible
nature of the punishment his imagination had suggested.

He went on--"I'm sure I meant to come straight home, but Tom Brown took and persuaded me to
go and see his ship launched, and I only meant to stay five minutes, and I thought there was
time enough, and it seemed as if the clock struck five directly. I'm so sorry--oh dear!" and
down went his head on the table again.

"I'm very sorry too," said John Heedman, seriously--"very sorry. I am afraid when you were
making your good resolutions about coming straight home, you forgot that you might be tempted
to break them, and did not ask for His help who alone can give you strength to resist temptation
and choose duty before pleasure. Don't you remember the words, 'My son, if sinners entice thee,
consent thou not,'and the exhortation to pray lest ye enter into temptation? Wipe away your
tears now, and get some tea; we will talk about it afterwards."

CHAPTER V.

TURNING OVER A NEW LEAF.

Charlie's heart felt a little lighter for the explanation. When the tea-things were cleared
away, and a nice little bright fire made up--for it was a chilly evening--Mrs. Heedman sat
down to her needlework, and Charlie drew his chair close to his father's, waiting for him to speak.

Taking Charlie's hand in his, he began in a kind tone, "I want you to tell me just how you
felt while Tom Brown was persuading you, as you call it, to go with him."

"Well," said Charlie, hesitatingly, "I felt I wanted to go very much, and I thought I would
only stay five minutes, there would still be plenty of time to meet you; and something in my
heart kept on whispering, 'Don't go;' but I did go, you know," he went on, in a saddened tone,
"and then the little voice did not whisper again."

"Now," said his father, "you must think well, and tell me what sins your sad way of thinking
there's time enough has led you to be guilty of in one short hour."

Charlie thought a moment, and then answered, without looking up, "Disobedience and ingratitude."

"Yes," said his father; "but there is one more--presumption. You know quite well, Charlie,
that warning voice in your heart was placed there by God to teach and guide you; yet you would
not listen; you turned a deaf ear; you knew better than the great God who made you; you put
your own will before His, and treated His Holy Spirit with contempt. It is a most solemn and
awful thought that God's Holy Spirit will not always strive with us.

"What a terrible fate!" exclaimed Mrs. Heedman, "to be left entirely at the mercy not only
of the temptation of the world, but the sinful wishes and inclinations of our own evil hearts!"

"Terrible indeed," said John Heedman. "Now listen here, Charlie: The captain of a ship was
warned by the pilot on board that the port that they were making for was almost surrounded
by rocks, sandbanks, and other hidden dangers, and that it would be certain shipwreck, sooner
or later, for the captain, as a stranger, to attempt the direction of the vessel without the
advice and guidance of the pilot, who was aware of every danger, knew exactly what was best
to do, and could alone bring them safely into the haven. What would you think, Charlie, if
I were to tell you that that captain, after being warned of his danger, refused to allow the
pilot to help him, turned his back upon him, would not listen to his advice, treated him with
contempt, and determined to take his own way; taking the helm himself, and steering straight
for the very rocks he had been warned to avoid?"

"I should think he was mad," exclaimed Charlie.

"Not one bit more mad than those who risk the shipwreck of their souls by refusing the help
and advice of the Holy Spirit in passing through this world, so full of danger and temptation."

"Oh, I see now, father; that is what my Sunday school teacher calls an illustration."

"Yes," answered his father; "and now let us have a little talk about 'there's time enough.'
I dare say you will be surprised when I tell you it is really selfishness that makes you so
fond of putting off."

"Oh, mother!" said Charlie, quickly, "I didn't think I was selfish. Do you think I am?"

Mrs. Heedman could scarcely help smiling at his tone of injured innocence. "I think I shall
wait and hear what your father has to say before I give an answer."

John Heedman went on: "You remember, Charlie, the French marigolds we set, don't you?"

"Yes, I do remember indeed; it was so odd, mother, it was all the same sort of seed, but when
it grew up there was such a difference in the form and shade of the flowers, we could scarcely
find two alike."

"Well, then, you will understand me when I tell you that in the heart of every one there is
the seed of selfishness, which, as it grows, shows itself in a different form in each person.
In some it shows itself as pride; in others as envy, greediness, jealousy, covetousness, procrastination,
indolence, and so on. Every sin, if we trace it, we shall find that it springs from the seed
selfishness--from love of self. It is love of self that makes us forget to feel for others--careless,
disobliging; indeed, it would take me an hour to go through the list of evils that spring from
that same love of self. Learn these things, my boy, when you're young. People seldom change
their character and habits after they get men and women. It is easier to bend this twig than
that tree in the road; and as you place it, so it will grow."

"What are we to do then, father?" asked Charlie.

"Ask God to help you to watch for it; and as it sprouts up, keep cutting it down, trampling
upon it, and rooting it up, as you would some noxious weed that threatened to spread over your
garden, smothering and stealing away the nourishment from your flowers."

"What would you call the flowers of the heart, father?" Charlie asked, with a smile.

"Faith, hope, charity, peace, love, gentleness, goodness," answered his father, readily; "one
can imagine all these flowers, and many more, perhaps, that I have not mentioned, clustering
round the fountain of prayer, depending upon it for their life; and just as the crystal stream
of the fountain must ascend, before it can shower down its clouds of glistening and refreshing
spray upon the parched and thirsty flowers round its brim, so prayer must go up to heaven before
it can bring down life and strength to the flowers of our hearts."

"I understand it all, father," said Charlie, for he loved to "work out" illustrations, as he
called it. He went on, "And if the fountain were neglected, and ceased to flow, how soon the
flowers would be scorched up by the sun! they would droop, and wither, and die. And so will
the flowers of our hearts if we neglect prayer."

"That is very well said, Charlie; but we must take care not to be satisfied with just knowing
all this. We must have 'deeds, not words.' I hope to-day has been a lesson to you that good
resolutions, made in your own strength, are of no use. If the failure of to-day has not humbled
you, and shown you your own weakness, God's lesson has been thrown away upon you. Let me see
you make a fresh beginning; turn a new leaf over, and set to work in earnest to overcome this
darling fault of yours, in the strength of the Lord--not in your own. It will not be all plain
walking along a smooth road; you may often fall, through want of trust, or some failing of
your own: but do not be discouraged; remember 'the greatest honour consists, not in never falling,
but in rising every time we fall.' You know how often we have watched the tide rising, and
how you wondered at first that it did not come rolling on without any stoppage; but then we
noticed that although each wave fell back a little, it gathered strength to come on with redoubled
energy much further up the beach than it had reached before, often catching up some lovely
seaweed or shell in its backward course, to bring with it and leave at our feet. Each time
you fall, then, remember the waves, and determine, with God's help, to rise again, and reach
a higher mark in your onward course than you had attained before, bringing with you increased
humility, trust, and love, to lay at your Saviour's feet."

"Thank you, dear father; I will try indeed," said Charlie.

"And now you had better learn your lessons; after then you can amuse yourself as you like.
I don't think we have any locks or anything to oil or put to rights to-night," said his father,
with a smile, "so you had better have your new paint-box out, I think."

"Mrs. Brown wants you to look at a lock in her house to-morrow, Charlie; it will neither lock
nor unlock. And the bottle-jack has gone wrong; it went off with such a noise when she was
winding it up yesterday: she wants you to see if you can do anything to it."

Charlie's face crimsoned with pleasure: his great delight was in locks, clocks, engines--anything
mechanical, in fact; but the only way in which he could indulge his love for such things was
in taking off, oiling, putting to rights, and screwing on again all the locks in their own
house, or any of the neighbours that would let him. As he often conquered refractory locks,
he became quite of importance in "the Row," and was often sent for. He had an old timepiece
that some one had given him, and would spend hours in taking it to pieces and putting it together
again; but he could not prevail upon his mother to let him touch "the clock."

The lessons were soon learned, and then Charlie got to his painting. What a happy night he
had, cutting out pictures from some illustrated papers, colouring them, and chattering incessantly,
unless he was putting in any particular touches that he seemed to think required profound silence
and holding of the breath!

"There, mother!" he exclaimed, holding up in triumph a picture of a very stylish lady that
he had finished, "that's the way you should be dressed if I had my way; isn't she a beauty?"

"She looks gay indeed, Charlie," said his mother, smiling; "but I'm afraid that style of dress
would not quite suit me. Let me see, what has she on? A bright blue dress, a scarlet cloak"--"Like
Mrs. Greenwell's, you know, mother," interrupted Charlie, "and a blue bonnet with a green feather
on it."

"Wouldn't a blue feather or a black one have looked better?" said his father, looking up from
his newspaper; "blue and green are not considered pretty together."

"Well, I don't know why they shouldn't, father." Charlie felt touched at his taste being called
into question. "The forget-me-nots, the bluebells, and the blue hyacinths grow amongst green
leaves and grass, and I'm sure God would not have put them there if they didn't look beautiful."

"You have conquered me there, Charlie," said his father, laughing; "still I am not reconciled
to the blue bonnet with the green feather."

When it was Charlie's bedtime, he gathered up all the cuttings of paper and burned them, washed
his paint-brushes, and put everything tidily away into a drawer that his mother had given him
to himself, so that he might have no excuse for leaving things about. The contents of that
drawer were miscellaneous indeed. There lay his pet the old timepiece, surrounded by bits of
string, screws, old nails, a hammer, a screw-driver, old tops, bits of coloured glass, odd
pieces of tin, brass, and wire, two or three apples, a pair of pincers, an old padlock, curious
pebbles, a dog's collar, packets of flower seeds, a couple of door-knobs, two or three rusty
keys, and many other treasures.

When the putting away was finished, he brought the Bible to his father and quietly took his
seat. They made it a rule to have prayers before Charlie went to bed, that he might join them;
and special mention was always made of him, that he might realize that every little thing connected
with his spiritual life was of the same consequence to God as if he was a grown-up person.
To-night there was much to ask for him--pardon for the past and help for the future; and Charlie's
heart was very full as he listened to the simple, earnest prayer that was sent up on his behalf.

"Good-night, my boy," said his father as Charlie came round to him; "when you are dressing
in the morning, remember that you must also 'put on the whole armour of God,' for you are going
out to do battle, 'not with flesh and blood, but with principalities and powers;' not with
an enemy that you can see, but with the spirit of darkness.

CHAPTER VI.

GOING OUT TO TEA.

