"No, Frank; I will not--no, I will not; not another word. And now, Frank--"

Before we go on we must say one word further as to Lady Arabella's character. It will probably
be said that she was a consummate hypocrite; but at the present moment she was not hypocritical.
She did love her son; was anxious--very, very anxious for him; was proud of him, and almost
admired the very obstinacy which so vexed her to her inmost soul. No grief would be to her
so great as that of seeing him sink below what she conceived to be his position. She was as
genuinely motherly, in wishing that he should marry money, as another woman might be in wishing
to see her son a bishop; or as the Spartan matron, who preferred that her offspring should
return on his shield, to hearing that he had come back whole in limb but tainted in honour.
When Frank spoke of a profession, she instantly thought of what Lord de Courcy might do for
him. If he would not marry money, he might, at any rate, be an attaché at an embassy. A profession--hard
work, as a doctor, or as an engineer--would, according to her ideas, degrade him; cause him
to sink below his proper position; but to dangle at a foreign court, to make small talk at
the evening parties of a lady ambassadress, and occasionally, perhaps, to write demi-official
notes containing demi-official tittle-tattle; this would be in proper accordance with the high
honour of a Gresham of Greshamsbury.

We may not admire the direction taken by Lady Arabella's energy on behalf of her son, but that
energy was not hypocritical.

"And now, Frank--" She looked wistfully into his face as she addressed him, as though half
afraid to go on, and begging that he would receive with complaisance whatever she found herself
forced to say.

"Well, mother?"

"I was with Mary, yesterday."

"Yes, yes; what then? I know what your feelings are with regard to her."

"No, Frank; you wrong me. I have no feelings against her--none, indeed; none but this: that
she is not fit to be your wife."

"I think her fit."

"Ah, yes; but how fit? Think of your position, Frank, and what means you have of keeping her.
Think what you are. Your father's only son; the heir to Greshamsbury. If Greshamsbury be ever
again more than a name, it is you that must redeem it. Of all men living you are the least
able to marry a girl like Mary Thorne."

"Mother, I will not sell myself for what you call my position."

"Who asks you? I do not ask you; nobody asks you. I do not want you to marry any one. I did
think once--but let that pass. You are now twenty-three. In ten years' time you will still
be a young man. I only ask you to wait. If you marry now, that is, marry such a girl as Mary
Thorne--"

"Such a girl! Where shall I find such another?"

"I mean as regards money, Frank; you know I mean that; how are you to live? Where are you to
go? And then, her birth. Oh, Frank, Frank!"

"Birth! I hate such pretence. What was--but I won't talk about it. Mother, I tell you my word
is pledged, and on no account will I be induced to break it."

"Ah, that's just it; that's just the point. Now, Frank, listen to me. Pray listen to me patiently
for one minute. I do not ask much of you."

Frank promised that he would listen patiently; but he looked anything but patient as he said so.

"I have seen Mary, as it was certainly my duty to do. You cannot be angry with me for that."

"Who said that I was angry, mother?"

"Well, I have seen her, and I must own, that though she was not disposed to be courteous to
me, personally, she said much that marked her excellent good sense. But the gist of it was
this; that as she had made you a promise, nothing should turn her from that promise but your
permission."

"And do you think--"

"Wait a moment, Frank, and listen to me. She confessed that this marriage was one which would
necessarily bring distress on all your family; that it was one which would probably be ruinous
to yourself; that it was a match which could not be approved of: she did, indeed; she confessed
all that. 'I have nothing', she said--those were her own words--'I have nothing to say in favour
of this engagement, except that he wishes it.' That is what she thinks of it herself. 'His
wishes are not a reason; but a law,' she said--"

"And, mother, would you have me desert such a girl as that?"

"It is not deserting, Frank: it would not be deserting: you would be doing that which she herself
approves of. She feels the impropriety of going on; but she cannot draw back because of her
promise to you. She thinks that she cannot do it, even though she wishes it."

"Wishes it! Oh, mother!"

"I do believe she does, because she has sense to feel the truth of all that your friends say.
Oh, Frank, I will go on my knees to you if you will listen to me."

"Oh, mother! mother! mother!"

"You should think twice, Frank, before you refuse the only request your mother ever made you.
And why do I ask you? why do I come to you thus? Is it for my own sake? Oh, my boy! my darling
boy! will you lose everything in life, because you love the child with whom you have played
as a child?"

"Whose fault is it that we were together as children? She is now more than a child. I look
on her already as my wife."

"But she is not your wife, Frank; and she knows that she ought not to be. It is only because
you hold her to it that she consents to be so."

"Do you mean to say that she does not love me?"

Lady Arabella would probably have said this, also, had she dared; but she felt, that in doing
so, she would be going too far. It was useless for her to say anything that would be utterly
contradicted by an appeal to Mary herself.

"No, Frank; I do not mean to say that you do not love her. What I do mean is this: that it
is not becoming in you to give up everything--not only yourself, but all your family--for such
a love as this; and that she, Mary herself, acknowledges this. Every one is of the same opinion.
Ask your father: I need not say that he would agree with you about everything if he could.
I will not say the de Courcys."

"Oh, the de Courcys!"

"Yes, they are my relations; I know that." Lady Arabella could not quite drop the tone of bitterness
which was natural to her in saying this. "But ask your sisters; ask Mr Oriel, whom you esteem
so much; ask your friend Harry Baker."

Frank sat silent for a moment or two while his mother, with a look almost of agony, gazed into
his face. "I will ask no one," at last he said.

"Oh, my boy! my boy!"

"No one but myself can know my own heart."

"And you will sacrifice all to such a love as that, all; her, also, whom you say that you so
love? What happiness can you give her as your wife? Oh, Frank! is that the only answer you
will make your mother on her knees?

"Oh, mother! mother!"

"No, Frank, I will not let you ruin yourself; I will not let you destroy yourself. Promise
this, at least, that you will think of what I have said."

"Think of it! I do think of it."

"Ah, but think of it in earnest. You will be absent now in London; you will have the business
of the estate to manage; you will have heavy cares upon your hands. Think of it as a man, and
not as a boy."

"I will see her to-morrow before I go."

"No, Frank, no; grant me that trifle, at any rate. Think upon this without seeing her. Do not
proclaim yourself so weak that you cannot trust yourself to think over what your mother says
to you without asking her leave. Though you be in love, do not be childish with it. What I
have told you as coming from her is true, word for word; if it were not, you would soon learn
so. Think now of what I have said, and of what she says, and when you come back from London,
then you can decide."

To so much Frank consented after some further parley; namely, that he would proceed to London
on the following Monday morning without again seeing Mary. And in the meantime, she was waiting
with sore heart for his answer to that letter that was lying, and was still to lie for so many
hours, in the safe protection of the Silverbridge postmistress.

It may seem strange; but, in truth, his mother's eloquence had more effect on Frank than that
of his father: and yet, with his father he had always sympathised. But his mother had been
energetic; whereas, his father, if not lukewarm, had, at any rate, been timid. "I will ask
no one," Frank had said in the strong determination of his heart; and yet the words were hardly
out of his mouth before he bethought himself that he would talk the thing over with Harry Baker.
"Not," said he to himself, "that I have any doubt; I have no doubt; but I hate to have all
the world against me. My mother wishes me to ask Harry Baker. Harry is a good fellow, and I
will ask him." And with this resolve he betook himself to bed.

The following day was Sunday. After breakfast Frank went with the family to church, as was
usual; and there, as usual, he saw Mary in Dr Thorne's pew. She, as she looked at him, could
not but wonder why he had not answered the letter which was still at Silverbridge; and he endeavoured
to read in her face whether it was true, as his mother had told him, that she was quite ready
to give him up. The prayers of both of them were disturbed, as is so often the case with the
prayers of other anxious people.

There was a separate door opening from the Greshamsbury pew out into the Greshamsbury grounds,
so that the family were not forced into unseemly community with the village multitude in going
to and from their prayers; for the front door of the church led out into a road which had no
connexion with the private path. It was not unusual with Frank and his father to go round,
after the service, to the chief entrance, so that they might speak to their neighbours, and
get rid of some of the exclusiveness which was intended for them. On this morning the squire
did so; but Frank walked home with his mother and sisters, so that Mary saw no more of him.

I have said that he walked home with his mother and his sisters; but he rather followed in
their path. He was not inclined to talk much, at least, not to them; and he continued asking
himself the question--whether it could be possible that he was wrong in remaining true to his
promise? Could it be that he owed more to his father and his mother, and what they chose to
call his position, than he did to Mary?

After church, Mr Gazebee tried to get hold of him, for there was much still to be said, and
many hints to be given, as to how Frank should speak, and, more especially, as to how he should
hold his tongue among the learned pundits in and about Chancery Lane. "You must be very wide
awake with Messrs Slow & Bideawhile," said Mr Gazebee. But Frank would not hearken to him just
at that moment. He was going to ride over to Harry Baker, so he put Mr Gazebee off till the
half-hour before dinner,--or else the half-hour after tea.

On the previous day he had received a letter from Miss Dunstable, which he had hitherto read
but once. His mother had interrupted him as he was about to refer to it; and now, as his father's
nag was being saddled--he was still prudent in saving the black horse--he again took it out.

Miss Dunstable had written in an excellent humour. She was in great distress about the oil
of Lebanon, she said. "I have been trying to get a purchaser for the last two years; but my
lawyer won't let me sell it, because the would-be purchasers offer a thousand pounds or so
less than the value. I would give ten to be rid of the bore; but I am as little able to act
myself as Sancho was in his government. The oil of Lebanon! Did you hear anything of it when
you were in those parts? I thought of changing the name to 'London particular;' but my lawyer
says the brewers would bring an action against me.

"I was going down to your neighbourhood--to your friend the duke's, at least. But I am prevented
by my poor doctor, who is so weak that I must take him to Malvern. It is a great bore; but
I have the satisfaction that I do my duty by him!

"Your cousin George is to be married at last. So I hear, at least. He loves wisely, if not
well; for his widow has the name of being prudent and fairly well to do in the world. She has
got over the caprices of her youth. Dear Aunt de Courcy will be so delighted. I might perhaps
have met her at Gatherum Castle. I do so regret it.

"Mr Moffat has turned up again. We all thought you had finally extinguished him. He left a
card the other day, and I have told the servant always to say that I am at home, and that you
are with me. He is going to stand for some borough in the west of Ireland. He's used to shillelaghs
by this time.

"By the by, I have a cadeau for a friend of yours. I won't tell you what it is, nor permit
you to communicate the fact. But when you tell me that in sending it I may fairly congratulate
her on having so devoted a slave as you, it shall be sent.

"If you have nothing better to do at present, do come and see my invalid at Malvern. Perhaps
you might have a mind to treat for the oil of Lebanon. I'll give you all the assistance I can
in cheating my lawyers."

There was not much about Mary in this; but still, the little that was said made him again declare
that neither father nor mother should move him from his resolution. "I will write to her and
say that she may send her present when she pleases. Or I will run down to Malvern for a day.
It will do me good to see her." And so resolved, he rode away to Mill Hill, thinking, as he
went, how he would put the matter to Harry Baker.

Harry was at home; but we need not describe the whole interview. Had Frank been asked beforehand,
he would have declared, that on no possible subject could he have had the slightest hesitation
in asking Harry any question, or communicating to him any tidings. But when the time came,
he found that he did hesitate much. He did not want to ask his friend if he should be wise
to marry Mary Thorne. Wise or not, he was determined to do that. But he wished to be quite
sure that his mother was wrong in saying that all the world would dissuade him from it. Miss
Dunstable, at any rate, did not do so.

At last, seated on a stile at the back of the Mill Hill stables, while Harry stood close before
him with both his hands in his pockets, he did get his story told. It was by no means the first
time that Harry Baker had heard about Mary Thorne, and he was not, therefore, so surprised
as he might have been, had the affair been new to him. And thus, standing there in the position
we have described, did Mr Baker, junior, give utterance to such wisdom as was in him on this
subject.

"You see, Frank, there are two sides to every question; and, as I take it, fellows are so apt
to go wrong because they are so fond of one side, they won't look at the other. There's no
doubt about it, Lady Arabella is a very clever woman, and knows what's what; and there's no
doubt about this either, that you have a very ticklish hand of cards to play."

"I'll play it straightforward; that's my game" said Frank.

"Well and good, my dear fellow. That's the best game always. But what is straightforward? Between
you and me, I fear there's no doubt that your father's property has got into a deuce of a mess."

"I don't see that that has anything to do with it."

"Yes, but it has. If the estate was all right, and your father could give you a thousand a
year to live on without feeling it, and if your eldest child would be cock-sure of Greshamsbury,
it might be very well that you should please yourself as to marrying at once. But that's not
the case; and yet Greshamsbury is too good a card to be flung away."

"I could fling it away to-morrow," said Frank.

"Ah! you think so," said Harry the Wise. "But if you were to hear to-morrow that Sir Louis
Scatcherd were master of the whole place, and be d---- to him, you would feel very uncomfortable."
Had Harry known how near Sir Louis was to his last struggle, he would not have spoken of him
in this manner. "That's all very fine talk, but it won't bear wear and tear. You do care for
Greshamsbury if you are the fellow I take you to be: care for it very much; and you care too
for your father being Gresham of Greshamsbury."

"This won't affect my father at all."

"Ah, but it will affect him very much. If you were to marry Miss Thorne to-morrow, there would
at once be an end to any hope of your saving the property."

"And do you mean to say I'm to be a liar to her for such reasons as that? Why, Harry, I should
be as bad as Moffat. Only it would be ten times more cowardly, as she has no brother."

"I must differ from you there altogether; but mind, I don't mean to say anything. Tell me that
you have made up your mind to marry her, and I'll stick to you through thick and thin. But
if you ask my advice, why, I must give it. It is quite a different affair to that of Moffat's.
He had lots of tin, everything he could want, and there could be no reason why he should not
marry,--except that he was a snob, of whom your sister was well quit. But this is very different.
If I, as your friend, were to put it to Miss Thorne, what do you think she would say herself?"

"She would say whatever she thought best for me."

"Exactly: because she is a trump. And I say the same. There can be no doubt about it, Frank,
my boy: such a marriage would be very foolish for you both; very foolish. Nobody can admire
Miss Thorne more than I do; but you oughtn't to be a marrying man for the next ten years, unless
you get a fortune. If you tell her the truth, and if she's the girl I take her to be, she'll
not accuse you of being false. She'll peak for a while; and so will you, old chap. But others
have had to do that before you. They have got over it, and so will you."

Such was the spoken wisdom of Harry Baker, and who can say that he was wrong? Frank sat a while
on his rustle seat, paring his nails with his penknife, and then looking up, he thus thanked
his friend:--

"I'm sure you mean well, Harry; and I'm much obliged to you. I dare say you're right too. But,
somehow, it doesn't come home to me. And what is more, after what has passed, I could not tell
her that I wish to part from her. I could not do it. And besides, I have that sort of feeling,
that if I heard she was to marry any one else, I am sure I should blow his brains out. Either
his or my own."

"Well, Frank, you may count on me for anything, except the last proposition:" and so they shook
hands, and Frank rode back to Greshamsbury.

CHAPTER XLV

Law Business in London

On the Monday morning at six o'clock, Mr Oriel and Frank started together; but early as it
was, Beatrice was up to give them a cup of coffee, Mr Oriel having slept that night in the
house. Whether Frank would have received his coffee from his sister's fair hands had not Mr
Oriel been there, may be doubted. He, however, loudly asserted that he should not have done
so, when she laid claim to great merit for rising in his behalf.

Mr Oriel had been specially instigated by Lady Arabella to use the opportunity of their joint
journey, for pointing out to Frank the iniquity as well as madness of the course he was pursuing;
and he had promised to obey her ladyship's behests. But Mr Oriel was perhaps not an enterprising
man, and was certainly not a presumptuous one. He did intend to do as he was bid; but when
he began, with the object of leading up to the subject of Frank's engagement, he always softened
down into some much easier enthusiasm in the matter of his own engagement with Beatrice. He
had not that perspicuous, but not over-sensitive strength of mind which had enabled Harry Baker
to express his opinion out at once; and boldly as he did it, yet to do so without offence.

Four times before the train arrived in London, he made some little attempt; but four times
he failed. As the subject was matrimony, it was his easiest course to begin about himself;
but he never could get any further.

"No man was ever more fortunate in a wife than I shall be," he said, with a soft, euphuistic
self-complacency, which would have been silly had it been adopted to any other person than
the bride's brother. His intention, however, was very good, for he meant to show, that in his
case marriage was prudent and wise, because his case differed so widely from that of Frank.

"Yes," said Frank. "She is an excellent good girl:" he had said it three times before, and
was not very energetic.

"Yes, and so exactly suited to me; indeed, all that I could have dreamed of. How very well
she looked this morning! Some girls only look well at night. I should not like that at all."

"You mustn't expect her to look like that always at six o'clock a.m.," said Frank, laughing.
"Young ladies only take that trouble on very particular occasions. She wouldn't have come down
like that if my father or I had been going alone. No, and she won't do so for you in a couple
of years' time."

"Oh, but she's always nice. I have seen her at home as much almost as you could do; and then
she's so sincerely religious."

"Oh, yes, of course; that is, I am sure she is," said Frank, looking solemn as became him.

"She's made to be a clergyman's wife."

"Well, so it seems," said Frank.

"A married life is, I'm sure, the happiest in the world--if people are only in a position to
marry," said Mr Oriel, gradually drawing near to the accomplishment of his design.

"Yes; quite so. Do you know, Oriel, I never was so sleepy in my life. What with all that fuss
of Gazebee's, and one thing and another, I could not get to bed till one o'clock; and then
I couldn't sleep. I'll take a snooze now, if you won't think it uncivil." And then, putting
his feet upon the opposite seat, he settled himself comfortably to his rest. And so Mr Oriel's
last attempt for lecturing Frank in the railway-carriage faded away and was annihilated.

By twelve o'clock Frank was with Messrs Slow & Bideawhile. Mr Bideawhile was engaged at the
moment, but he found the managing Chancery clerk to be a very chatty gentleman. Judging from
what he saw, he would have said that the work to be done at Messrs Slow & Bideawhile's was
not very heavy.

"A singular man that Sir Louis," said the Chancery clerk.

"Yes; very singular," said Frank.

"Excellent security, excellent; no better; and yet he will foreclose; but you see he has no
power himself. But the question is, can the trustee refuse? Then, again, trustees are so circumscribed
nowadays that they are afraid to do anything. There has been so much said lately, Mr Gresham,
that a man doesn't know where he is, or what he is doing. Nobody trusts anybody. There have
been such terrible things that we can't wonder at it. Only think of the case of those Hills!
How can any one expect that any one else will ever trust a lawyer again after that? But that's
Mr Bideawhile's bell. How can any one expect it? He will see you now, I dare say, Mr Gresham."

So it turned out, and Frank was ushered into the presence of Mr Bideawhile. He had got his
lesson by heart, and was going to rush into the middle of his subject; such a course, however,
was not in accordance with Mr Bideawhile's usual practice. Mr Bideawhile got up from his large
wooden-seated Windsor chair, and, with a soft smile, in which, however, was mingled some slight
dash of the attorney's acuteness, put out his hand to his young client; not, indeed, as though
he were going to shake hands with him, but as though the hand were some ripe fruit all but
falling, which his visitor might take and pluck if he thought proper. Frank took hold of the
hand, which returned him no pressure, and then let it go again, not making any attempt to gather
the fruit.

"I have come up to town, Mr Bideawhile, about this mortgage," commenced Frank.

"Mortgage--ah, sit down, Mr Gresham; sit down. I hope your father is quite well?"

"Quite well, thank you."

"I have a great regard for your father. So I had for your grandfather; a very good man indeed.
You, perhaps, don't remember him, Mr Gresham?"

"He died when I was only a year old."

"Oh, yes; no, you of course, can't remember him; but I do, well: he used to be very fond of
some port wine I had. I think it was '11;' and if I don't mistake, I have a bottle or two of
it yet; but it is not worth drinking now. Port wine, you know, won't keep beyond a certain
time. That was very good wine. I don't exactly remember what it stood me a dozen then; but
such wine can't be had now. As for the Madeira, you know there's an end of that. Do you drink
Madeira, Mr Gresham?"

"No," said Frank, "not very often."

"I'm sorry for that, for it's a fine wine; but then there's none of it left, you know. I have
a few dozen, I'm told they're growing pumpkins where the vineyards were. I wonder what they
do with all the pumpkins they grow in Switzerland! You've been in Switzerland, Mr Gresham?"

Frank said he had been in Switzerland.

"It's a beautiful country; my girls made me go there last year. They said it would do me good;
but then you know, they wanted to see it themselves; ha! ha! ha! However, I believe I shall
go again this autumn. That is to Aix, or some of those places; just for three weeks. I can't
spare any more time, Mr Gresham. Do you like that dining at the tables d'hôte?"

"Pretty well, sometimes."

"One would get tired of it--eh! But they gave us capital dinners at Zurich. I don't think much
of their soup. But they had fish, and about seven kinds of meats and poultry, and three or
four puddings, and things of that sort. Upon my word, I thought we did very well, and so did
my girls, too. You see a great many ladies travelling now."

"Yes," said Frank; "a great many."

"Upon my word, I think they are right; that is, if they can afford time. I can't afford time.
I'm here every day till five, Mr Gresham; then I go out and dine in Fleet Street, and then
back to work till nine."

"Dear me! that's very hard."

"Well, yes it is hard work. My boys don't like it; but I manage it somehow. I get down to my
little place in the country on Saturday. I shall be most happy to see you there next Saturday."

Frank, thinking it would be outrageous on his part to take up much of the time of the gentleman
who was constrained to work so unreasonably hard, began again to talk about his mortgages,
and, in so doing, had to mention the name of Mr Yates Umbleby.

"Ah, poor Umbleby!" said Mr Bideawhile; "what is he doing now? I am quite sure your father
was right, or he wouldn't have done it; but I used to think that Umbleby was a decent sort
of man enough. Not so grand, you know, as your Gazebees and Gumptions--eh, Mr Gresham? They
do say young Gazebee is thinking of getting into Parliament. Let me see: Umbleby married--who
was it he married? That was the way your father got hold of him; not your father, but your
grandfather. I used to know all about it. Well, I was sorry for Umbleby. He has got something,
I suppose--eh?"

Frank said that he believed Mr Yates Umbleby had something wherewith to keep the wolf from
the door.

"So you have got Gazebee down there now? Gumption, Gazebee & Gazebee: very good people, I'm
sure; only, perhaps, they have a little too much on hand to do your father justice."

"But about Sir Louis, Mr Bideawhile."

"Well, about Sir Louis; a very bad sort of fellow, isn't he? Drinks--eh? I knew his father
a little. He was a rough diamond, too. I was once down in Northamptonshire, about some railway
business; let me see; I almost forget whether I was with him, or against him. But I know he
made sixty thousand pounds by one hour's work; sixty thousand pounds! And then he got so mad
with drinking that we all thought--"

And so Mr Bideawhile went on for two hours, and Frank found no opportunity of saying one word
about the business which had brought him up to town. What wonder that such a man as this should
be obliged to stay at his office every night till nine o'clock?

During these two hours, a clerk had come in three or four times, whispering something to the
lawyer, who, on the last of such occasions, turned to Frank, saying, "Well, perhaps that will
do for to-day. If you'll manage to call to-morrow, say about two, I will have the whole thing
looked up; or, perhaps Wednesday or Thursday would suit you better." Frank, declaring that
the morrow would suit him very well, took his departure, wondering much at the manner in which
business was done at the house of Messrs Slow & Bideawhile.

When he called the next day, the office seemed to be rather disturbed, and he was shown quickly
into Mr Bideawhile's room. "Have you heard this?" said that gentleman, putting a telegram into
his hands. It contained tidings of the death of Sir Louis Scatcherd. Frank immediately knew
that these tidings must be of importance to his father; but he had no idea how vitally they
concerned his own more immediate interests.

"Dr Thorne will be up in town on Thursday evening after the funeral," said the talkative clerk.
"And nothing of course can be done till he comes," said Mr Bideawhile. And so Frank, pondering
on the mutability of human affairs, again took his departure.

He could do nothing now but wait for Dr Thorne's arrival, and so he amused himself in the interval
by running down to Malvern, and treating with Miss Dunstable in person for the oil of Lebanon.
He went down on the Wednesday, and thus, failed to receive, on the Thursday morning, Mary's
letter, which reached London on that day. He returned, however, on the Friday, and then got
it; and perhaps it was well for Mary's happiness that he had seen Miss Dunstable in the interval.
"I don't care what your mother says," said she, with emphasis. "I don't care for any Harry,
whether it be Harry Baker, or old Harry himself. You made her a promise, and you are bound
to keep it; if not on one day, then on another. What! because you cannot draw back yourself,
get out of it by inducing her to do so! Aunt de Courcy herself could not improve upon that."
Fortified in this manner, he returned to town on the Friday morning, and then got Mary's letter.
Frank also got a note from Dr Thorne, stating that he had taken up his temporary domicile at
the Gray's Inn Coffee-house, so as to be near the lawyers.

It has been suggested that the modern English writers of fiction should among them keep a barrister,
in order that they may be set right on such legal points as will arise in their little narratives,
and thus avoid that exposure of their own ignorance of the laws, which, now, alas! they too
often make. The idea is worthy of consideration, and I can only say, that if such an arrangement
can be made, and if a counsellor adequately skilful can be found to accept the office, I shall
be happy to subscribe my quota; it would be but a modest tribute towards the cost.

