The Vitagraph release, "A Wasted Sacrifice,"[25] more fully described in the next chapter,
contained a scene in which a young Indian woman, stepping upon a rattlesnake, was bitten, and
died. One scene showed her walking along, with the papoose on her back, all unsuspecting of
the danger that threatened. Then came a close-up showing the rattler coiled with head raised.
The next full-sized scene showed the woman just about to step upon the snake concealed in the
grass. In the second close-up which followed, showing only the snake and the woman's moccasined
feet, the reptile struck with startling swiftness and savageness. The whole effect was thrilling
in the extreme--and we do not doubt that more than one young writer was tempted to write a
story with a similar scene. But how often would a producer be able to obtain such an effect?
It seems obvious that the scene was in stock and the play built around it, but the truth is
that the scene was specially made. The snake was caught, and its poison extracted, and then
the scenes were taken. In the close-up scene the snake was inside an enclosure stretched on
the ground. The first close-up showed the snake, coiled. In the second, the girl was in the
enclosure with the snake. But the close-up did not show the enclosure, of course. And rattlesnakes
are not readily obtainable "props"!

[Footnote 25: The synopsis of this photoplay is given in Chapter VIII.]

4. Animal Actors

Another mistake frequently made by the beginner is in writing stories that require the assistance
of trick animals. We know one motion-picture actor who, at the time when he was on the extra
list of a well-known Chicago company, wrote to a New York producer that he would furnish the
working scenarios for two or three plays in which his trick dog could work provided that he
himself were allowed to direct the scenes in which the animal took part. He was told to go
on, and carried out his part of the contract as offered. The result was several very exceptional
pictures in which his dog's clever work was featured. But how many writers are prepared not
only to write the script but also to furnish the dog and direct its acting? It is better to
leave the writing of such stories to some member of the company owning the trick animal.

The Selig Company maintains a large menagerie, as does also the Universal Company; and a script
in which caged animals are used might be accepted by them. Even a story requiring animals that
were unconfined might "get by;" but it would be advisable, in either case, first to try to
find out whether the director who would take such a picture considered the story worth while
writing. That is, we think the photoplaywright would do well--although no such suggestion has
been offered by either company--to send a short synopsis of the story he intends to write,
showing just how the animals would be made use of. We have no doubt that the editor would let
you know if he considered the idea a good one; and if he did, you could complete your script
or detailed synopsis. It would be understood, of course, that his approving your idea would
in no way guarantee the acceptance of your script. But of one thing you might be sure: if your
idea were not purchased, it would not be used at all, as every reputable company pays for everything
they use.

5. Child Actors

What applies to animals applies equally to child actors: it is always best, before submitting
a story in which a child plays an important part, to be reasonably certain that the company
has such a juvenile player, or that they can procure a child with the necessary ability to
perform the part. Several concerns have as members of their stock companies child actors of
marked ability. In some studios, however, the director finds it necessary to "send out" for
clever children of whom he may know--sometimes the child has acted under his direction before;
sometimes he has heard the reports from directors of other companies--and if there is doubt
in the director's mind that the child can handle the part, your story may be rejected as a result.

6. Costume Plays

In the chapter on "What You Should Write" we discuss the question of writing historical dramas,
which come under the head of costume plays. It should be said here that, merely as an economical
consideration, you should always avoid sending scripts calling for special--and therefore expensive--costuming
to any company unless you know that they are in the habit of producing plays of that nature.
By studying the pictures you see on the screen you can easily learn what companies go in for
costume or historical plays; such companies are always glad to receive really strong and interesting
stories of this character from outside writers.

7. Lighting

We have already touched upon the use of special lighting arrangements in special scenes, but
it is well to say again that it is best to let the director decide how a scene shall be lighted.
He will consider the matter from the standpoint of practicability and expense; you are very
likely to think only of the effect. Don't be too ready to write scenes calling for verandas
hung with electric lights in supposed night scenes, Japanese lanterns at garden parties, unique
moonlight effects, and similar things that will make for expense--even if they are practicable.

Finally, economy should always be the guide followed by the author in writing his story. If,
after it has been accepted, the director chooses to stage it with more than ordinary care and
expense, so much the better. But the director and not the author will be the one to decide
how it is to be staged. If the story is good, it will not be slighted in its production.

CHAPTER XVI

WHAT YOU SHOULD NOT WRITE

1. The Work of the Censors

From the time that you begin to write moving-picture plays, one important fact must be borne
constantly in mind: The National Board of Censorship inspects and passes on all films before
they are permitted to be released, and this Board will not pass any subject it considers objectionable.
It is not our province to discuss the methods of the censors in making decisions, though in
some sections the local board carries the censorship idea to extremes, even barring some subjects
that have already passed the National Board. It is safe to say, however, that the folly of
hacking to pieces a film portraying Shakespeare's tragedy of "Macbeth," on the ground that
it contained too many scenes showing murder and other crimes, will soon become apparent even
to over-zealous police and other censors of certain cities. As Mr. W. Stephen Bush writes in
The Moving Picture World: "A very small and a very short-sighted minority of motion picture
manufacturers, together with occasional lapses of National Censorship," are responsible for
the exceedingly silly and presumptuous system now existent in some localities.

It is because of this "small and short-sighted minority" that we offer this advice: Write as
your conscience and a sense of decency as an individual and as a good citizen dictate. The
chances are that then your photoplay will meet with no serious objection. Do not introduce
a crime-scene into your picture simply because when you saw a similar scene in a photoplay
it aroused a moment's thrill among the spectators. The fact that it passed the National Board
and the local censorship committee--if your city has one--does not mean that it is the kind
of picture the better class of theatre patrons want, and the better class ought to be set up
in your mind as the judges of all you write. A bad example will not justify you in writing
a play containing objectionable scenes. The safe ground is the best ground because it is right.

The following list of features disapproved by the National Board of Censorship gives a good
general idea of the things that may be regarded as under the ban, not in one or two special
cities, but throughout the country. It is not a copy of an official list, as, to the best of
our knowledge, none such is sent out; it is merely a draft prepared by Mr. John F. Pribyl,
then with the Selig Company, after he had had a conversation on the subject with the Secretary
of the National Board, Mr. Walter Story, and courteously transmitted by Mr. Pribyl to the authors
of this volume.

DISAPPROVED BY THE NATIONAL BOARD OF CENSORSHIP

The Unwritten Law: The Board does not recognize the so-called unwritten law as a justification
for the killing of any being.

Crime: 1. When crime is the obvious purpose of the picture--that is, when the whole story hinges
on the perpetrated crime.

2. When the crime is repulsive and shocks the spectator.

3. The shooting in "cold blood" of any being.

4. Any crime that portrays a unique method of execution.

Suicide: The Board will not pass a picture in which there is a suicide or any suggestion of
a suicide, with incidents leading thereto. The purpose of the Board is to prevent all suggestion
of self-destruction to those who are morbidly inclined.

Burglary: There is no objection to a burglary scene in a picture so long as there is no actual
demonstration of the act of burglarizing; for instance, the burglar may be shown entering through
an open window, but must not be shown in the act of "jimmying" the window. He may be shown
with his back to the audience, opening a safe and extracting therefrom money or papers, but
he must not be shown opening the safe by any means known to the art of burglars.

Vulgarity: All vulgarity and suggestion must be avoided. For instance, flirtations with women
who are unmistakably of easy virtue. Letters making appointments with such women are objectionable,
as is any "rough-house" conduct with them.

Mischief: The Board objects to pictures that will suggest to the mind of youth acts of mischief,
such as mutilation or destruction of property for the purpose of perpetrating a joke on someone,
especially playing jokes on invalids or cripples.

Lynching: Lynching is only permissible when the incident happens in the days when Lynch Law
was the only law, i.e., in the early days of the Far West when the Vigilantes were the only
effective means of enforcing order.

2. Other Objectionable Subjects

The foregoing, of course, is not a complete list, as points are coming up continually. For
instance, scenes showing kidnapping are forbidden by the police of many cities, and the introduction
of that form of crime into a film story is frowned upon by the National Board. The point is
that scenes of crime and violence are not absolutely barred, nor are offenses against the moral
law, but where permitted these must not be presented offensively, and they must be essential
to the story, rather than the purpose of the play. This is a difficult point which nothing
but common sense and experience can perfectly interpret.

As an example, a story written about a murder or a robbery will not be passed, but such an
incident may be allowed in a story in which it is not the leading feature. In any event, the
incident must serve to point a moral and not serve as a spectacle.

Another thing to remember is that--aside from the moving-pictures exhibited in the various
"regular" theatres--dozens of incidents which are shown on the regular stage without being
questioned in any way, would never be allowed on the screen. This is partly due to the fact
that such a large percentage of the attendants of moving-picture theatres are children and
undiscriminating adults. The writer of fiction entering the field of photoplay writing will
do well to bear this further fact in mind: the very incident that might be the means of selling
a story to a certain magazine might be the cause of a rejection if introduced into a moving-picture
plot. The photoplay has standards all its own.

"One type of the unpleasant drama," says a writer in the Photoplay Magazine, "is the kind showing
scenes of drinking and wild debauchery, where some character becomes drunk and slinks home
to his sickly wife, beats her, and then, finally, after reaching the last stages of becoming
a sot, suddenly braces up and reforms." The same writer also remarks: "The only time that murder
should be shown, and that very delicately, is either in a detective drama or else in good tragedy,
where the removal of some character is essential to the plot." "Every one of Shakespeare's
tragedies tells of crime," says an editorial in The Moving Picture World, "but does not exploit
it, and never revels in the harrowing details to produce a thrill."

It is not to be denied that careless and unthinking directors are responsible for a good deal
of what is objectionable on the screen. At the same time--and this is especially true of comedy
subjects--the director is merely, as a rule, carrying out the author's suggestions, if not
his actual directions. The best way is not to give the director the opportunity to adopt objectionable
features--leave even questionable incidents out of your photoplay.

For example, the elopement is legitimate moving-picture material, provided it is not introduced
in such a way as to instill mischief into the minds of young men and women. At least one picture
was produced a year or so ago which showed two high-school girls eloping with a couple of young
rakes who in another part of the photoplay "registered" that they were by no means the kind
of young men who would ever have received the sanction of the girls' parents to marry their
daughters. Such a picture may have been conceived innocently enough, but as a subject that
would be shown to thousands of young people all over the world it was decidedly deserving of
censure. And yet some of the very incidents that served to make the picture doubly objectionable
in the eyes of grown people, especially fathers and mothers, might have been the result of
the director's unthinkingly adding certain scenes that served to portray young men in a bad
light--incidents which were not even thought of by the author when he planned his picture of
a youthful escapade. We sympathize with the lovers when Dorothy's father refuses to let her
marry Jack, to whom she is plainly devoted. But when, in another scene, we see Jack wasting
his time in pool-rooms or lounging in a saloon, we give the father credit for being a good
judge of character, and not simply a harsh and stubborn guardian.

Writers should remember that even though a film is passed by the National Board, if it gets
into a city in which the local censorship board objects to one or two scenes, these scenes
will be literally cut out for exhibition in that city. Afterwards, they may be put back; but
if this happens in several communities, the film is likely to be shortened by many feet, since
in cutting and re-splicing each cut means the loss of at least two "frames," or pictures, and
even more if the operator does not know his business--not to mention the loss of the actual
scenes cut out. Suppose that two or three of a writer's "strong" scenes are cut when his picture
is shown--in Detroit, for instance--the result on the screen is more likely to become an illogical
and incoherent jumble than the powerful "drama with a punch" he had intended it to be. But
"Censorship realizes," says Mr. A.W. Thomas, in the Photoplay Magazine, "as does every editor
and author, that morality is to be desired, and to this end, crime or suggestion of crime is
presented, as a rule, to convey the moral. 'Crime for crime's sake' is to be condemned. Sensationalism
and forbidden themes are seldom seen nowadays."

Aside from murder and suicide, why is it that so many young authors imagine that to be strong
a story must have at least one violent or tragic death-scene? That there are hundreds of gripping
stories, pictures with the biggest kind of "punch," in which no death or suggestion of death
is shown, is well-known to every photoplay patron whose mind and heart are in good working
order. And yet editors are every day returning scripts in which a murder, a suicide, a death
as the result of a duel, or a death arising from disease or accident, is shown--all for no
other reason than that the writer imagines he is thereby producing a strong drama.

3. Depressing Dramas

Death in a picture is neither undesirable nor out of place--provided it is necessary to the
proper and inevitable development of the plot. But the mistaken idea that to snuff out a human
life in a thrilling or a heart-rending manner, when there is really no logical necessity for
it, makes a picture either strong or dramatic is responsible for scores of unaccepted scripts.
Yet it would not be well to try to apply to all picture stories Mr. George Cohan's motto, "Always
leave them laughing," for, as every intelligent exhibitor knows, and as a certain producer
once said, "they come to weep as well as to laugh." The point that seems to have escaped many
young writers is this: There is very often a more decided, a more convincing, and a far more
welcome, "punch" in a scene which shows the saving of a human life than there is in one which
shows a death, even of the most unworthy character in the cast. To have your villain nursed
back to life by the man whom he has so persistently and cruelly persecuted, and then to have
him show the change of heart that one would expect in him in the circumstances, will be far
more dramatic and gripping in the eyes of an intelligent audience than to have your hero "hurl
the black-hearted ruffian to his doom" over a cliff a thousand feet high.

There is a distinction, with a very decided difference, between the picture that fills the
spectators with gloom and the one that simply allows them to have what many women would call
"a good cry." "It is a great thing to be able to lift the spectators out of their seats with
a big, gripping melodrama," remarks Mr. Sargent, "but it is a far more creditable thing to
send them home with a tear in their eyes while a smile hovers about their lips."

4. The Use of Deadly Weapons

It is understood, of course, that the use of guns, knives, and other weapons is seldom objected
to by the censors when they are employed in a historical picture, or one that shows pioneer
life. The trouble is that some young writers, knowing that they are granted more license in
this direction when doing "Western stuff," make the mistake of abusing this liberty. Mr. R.R.
Nehls, of the American Film Company, says: "The most noticeable fault with manuscripts dealing
with Western life is the natural inclination to run too much to gun play, stagecoach robberies,
etc. Please remember that we do not wish to distort conditions in the great West--rather we
seek to portray it as it really exists today."

Mr. Nehls, it will be noticed, says "the great West ... as it really exists today." It should
be apparent to any writer that in turning out stories of the present-day West there is even
less excuse for promiscuous gun-play than in a story, say, of California in the days of the
Forty-Niners. But Indian massacres, soldier warfare, Indian and cowboy fights, usually come
under the head of "historical" subjects and are therefore permissible.

5. Plays Offensive to Classes of Patrons

It seems scarcely possible that any intelligent photoplay writer would introduce into one of
his stories an incident calculated to offend the religious or political faith of any patron,
and yet in the past different pictures of this kind have been the cause of more than one unthinking
moving-picture theatre manager's losing some of his best patrons. People as a rule have no
objection to being preached to in a mild and entertaining way when they go to a picture show,
but they do object to having their feelings hurt. A man who is over-fond of drink may sit through
a play on the screen in which the evil results of intoxication are depicted and come away filled
with a determination to reform his way of living, but the man who after paying his admission
is asked to sit through five or more reels of film almost every foot of which is a shock to
his religious or his political sensibilities will come away filled only with the determination
to avoid that theatre in the future, if not, indeed, to eschew moving-pictures entirely.

During 1911 and the early part of 1912 several pictures were released, both by European and
American manufacturers, which were so objected to by Roman Catholic picture-patrons that not
only were they suppressed but the whole film-manufacturing industry was aroused and put on
its guard against producing more pictures of this kind. Here is a rule of photoplay writing
that you must not violate: Do not offend the religious beliefs of a single patron if you wish
to retain the good will of the editors and manufacturers. And have you stopped to think how
broad that statement really is? Have you taken into consideration the many different nationalities,
with their widely different creeds and religious convictions, which see the pictures daily
put upon the market? As one critic says: "The photoplay film goes to Europe and Australia and
South Africa. Some of them even get to China; so you can realize that what may seem foolish
to you may be sacred to someone else, and exhibitors have to be careful."

To say that you must be careful not to write stories that will be likely to arouse the ire
of certain photoplay patrons because of the way a political theme is handled does not mean
that you cannot introduce political themes at all. If, for instance, you have a particularly
good suffragist story--one which contains both heart and human interest--there is little doubt
that it would sell. Several such pictures have been shown in the past year or two. Or if you
have a story in which the leading male character is a Socialist, it may be appreciated by many
photoplay-goers without giving offense to those whose views do not coincide with the hero's.
But, to quote the editor of The Coming Nation, stories are not wanted "where the hero arises
and makes a soap-box speech on Socialism, converting all by-standers." And at all times you
must keep in mind that, no matter what political theme you exploit in your story, heart-interest
must predominate if you wish it to sell--another way of saying that unless you are sure that
you have a very strong and unusual story, it is best to leave out politics. That form of journalism
which is best known as muck-raking is also out of place in the pictures.

Few films, however, outside of the sectarian subjects which were the cause of so much disturbance
a year or so ago, have given displeasure to so many people as those--fortunately, they have
not been many--which revealed and held up to the public the secret and dark sides in the lives
of famous men and women of history. "There are some things that are sacred," says a writer
in The Moving Picture World, "even from the hand of the most circumspect of picture makers."
It is a source of regret that even a shadow of reproach should be cast upon distinguished men,
particularly when the question of blame is debatable, as when, for instance, a picture portraying
the love affair between Sir John Millais, the artist, and Ruskin's wife, was actually produced
by a well-known company.

No matter what the opportunity to produce what seems to you to be a strong or interesting story,
never offend against good taste. "Plays that antagonize the finer element in an audience,"
says Mr. Louis Reeves Harrison, "had better never be shown at all. There is nothing funny in
what is cruel, though vulgar brutality in a play may get a laugh from a few who have not yet
emerged from primitive egoism."

That last sentence should constantly be borne in mind.

A certain film, "Adrift," released back in 1912, showed an incident that in real life would
have been impossible. The rejected suitor of a woman who is afterwards seen on the downward
path seeks to relieve his lonely existence by the adoption of a child. Because a certain little
girl in an orphan asylum bears a striking resemblance to the woman he has loved and lost, he
decides to adopt her. And he does; they are seen leaving together, the child being turned over
to its new guardian in the most off-hand way imaginable. Of course, later, the child, having
grown to womanhood, falls in love with and marries her guardian; but in real life how little
chance there would be of a foundling institution's giving one of its girl charges over to a
young bachelor in this informal manner, if, indeed, he were allowed to adopt her at all. Of
course, it is not always possible to say whether the script for such a picture was the work
of an outside writer or whether it was written by the director himself. But it sometimes happens
that a picture is produced because it was written by the director himself, whereas the same
story, sent to the editor by an outside writer, would be returned with a warning to avoid similar
scenes or situations in the future.

The difference between the photoplay and prose fiction, or even the regular drama, is illustrated
by the so-called problem plays and novels. These are acceptable mainly because their themes
can be explained from every point of view, and treated in a manner that renders them less objectionable,
when skillful dialogue and discussion are used in telling the story, than if they were to be
acted in pantomime. Besides, to give the same story in motion pictures would necessitate the
use of more leaders and other inserts than would be practicable, even in a feature picture,
unless the director were to risk offending the public, if not the Censorship Board, by putting
on scenes that, insufficiently explained, would be far too risqué for the photoplay stage.
Furthermore, when there are so many good, pleasant, and interesting themes to choose from,
why elaborate what is unpleasant or morally objectionable?

6. Themes Unsuitable to the Producing Company

In the chapter on the limitations of the photoplay stage we have already said something about
the inadvisability of calling (in your scenario) for elaborate snow-and rain-storm effects.
But of course it is another matter to plan stories with winter or with summer backgrounds.
Take into consideration that most of the Eastern companies, once the winter season is at hand,
look for stories that may be done mostly in the studios, with interior settings. If the company
has a branch studio in California or in Florida--facts which you can easily learn from the
trade publications--they will very probably take suitable stories calling for outdoor scenes.
As the winter season approaches its end you begin to offer scripts that call for exterior scenes,
though, of course, there are some scenes which it would not be possible to do until summer
is well advanced.

It is impossible here to lay down any exact rules for submitting to any company; you must be
guided by your good judgment and your acquired knowledge of how the company to which you submit
your scripts has its field-forces distributed. But in order to make scripts acceptable for
production by a company that has a field-force working, say, in the Adirondacks, it is necessary
to get your stories to them in good time. Therefore, post yourself concerning the movements
of the various companies, and when you learn that a certain concern has a field-company in
the West Indies, send them the best script you have or can write, suited to the locality in
which they are working. If it is accepted, you may be sure that the editor will be very glad
to keep you informed as to how long they are going to stay. In that way you will avoid sending
to a company a story with a Jamaican background when the field-company has been moved to the
Delaware Water Gap region.

7. Hackneyed Themes

Here is a list of subjects no longer wanted by the editors--unless the theme is given a decidedly
new twist--because they have become hackneyed from being done so often. Many such lists have
been printed in the various motion-picture trade-papers and the different magazines for writers.
We give the tabooed themes that have so far been listed, and others drawn from different sources.
A careful study of this list may save you from wasting your time writing a story that has already
been done--perhaps two or three times, in one form or another--in every studio.

(1) The brother and sister, orphaned in infancy, parted by adoption and reunited in later life.
They fall in love, only to discover the blood relationship.

(2) The little child stolen by gypsies, and restored to her family in later life, generally
by means of a favorite song.

(3) The discharged workman who goes to do injury to his former employer, but who performs some
rescue instead and gets his job back.

(4) The poor man who attends a fashionable dinner. He conceals in his clothing delicacies for
his sick wife. A ring or other valuable is lost. He alone of the party refuses to be searched.
The valuable is found and his story comes out.

(5) The man who assumes his brother's crime for the sake of the girl he loves, and who, he
thinks, loves the brother.

(6) The child who reunites parted parents or prevents a separation.

(7) Baby's shoes. Edison, Vitagraph, Universal and other companies have worked out all the
sentiment attached to them. Bannister Merwin, Robert E. Coffey and other authors have reunited
separated couples by means of baby's shoes. Don't do it any more.

(8) Two suitors for the hand of a girl. They go to one of the parents to decide, or she gives
them a common task to perform. One wins by foul means. He is found out, and she marries the other.

(9) The convict who escapes and robs an innocent man of his clothes, thereby causing another
to appear temporarily as the jail-bird.

(10) The story of the girl's name and address written on the egg which is relegated to cold
storage for twenty years, then to be discovered by a love-lorn man who seeks out the writer,
who by this time has at least one unromantic husband and a brood of children.

(11) The pathetic "Mother" play in which Thanksgiving and pumpkin pies tug hard at the heart-strings.

(12) The play in which the rich crippled child is contrasted with the poor strong child, and
in which the two are brought together and exchange confidences--and money.

(13) The husband jealous of his wife's brother, whom he has never seen.

(14) The burglar who breaks into a house, to be confronted by his own child, who has been adopted
by the family.

(15) The policeman who calls on the cook and removes his hat and coat, which are used by another.

(16) The child who reunites parents and children separated through an unapproved marriage.

(17) The child who redeems the criminal or who saves the discouraged from the downward plunge.

(18) The employee who gets an interest in the business, and his employer's daughter, either
with or without opposition from the foreman or the junior partner.

(19) The bad small boy.

(20) The sheriff who is rescued by the outlaw and who later allows him to escape, or prevents
his being lynched.

