Transcriber's Note:              
| |                                                    | | Latin word "demuntiat" in Footnote
222 has been    | | corrected as "denuntiat" and the Latin words "At"  | | and "audient" in
Footnote 253 have been corrected  | | as "Ut" and "audiunt" respectively after checking  |
| with reliable sources.

                                         PAGE
 CHAPTER I.

 HIS RETURN FROM EXILE                      7

 CHAPTER II.

 CICERO, ÆTAT. 52, 53, 54.                 38

 CHAPTER III.

 MILO                                      59

 CHAPTER IV.

 CILICIA                                   76

 CHAPTER V.

 THE WAR BETWEEN CÆSAR AND POMPEY         110

 CHAPTER VI.

 AFTER THE BATTLE                         129

 CHAPTER VII.

 MARCELLUS, LIGARIUS, AND DEIOTARUS       147

 CHAPTER VIII.

 CÆSAR'S DEATH                            172

 CHAPTER IX.

 THE PHILIPPICS                           195

 CHAPTER X.

 CICERO'S DEATH                           231

 CHAPTER XI.

 CICERO'S RHETORIC                        249

 CHAPTER XII.

 CICERO'S PHILOSOPHY                      277

 CHAPTER XIII.

 CICERO'S MORAL ESSAYS                    304

 CHAPTER XIV.

 CICERO'S RELIGION                        321

 APPENDIX                                 333

 INDEX                                    337

THE

LIFE OF CICERO.

CHAPTER I.

HIS RETURN FROM EXILE.

Cicero's life for the next two years was made conspicuous by a series of speeches which were
produced by his exile and his return. These are remarkable for the praise lavished on himself,
and by the violence with which he attacked his enemies. It must be owned that never was abuse
more abusive, or self-praise uttered in language more laudatory.[1] Cicero had now done all
that was useful in his public life. The great monuments of his literature are to come. None
of these had as yet been written except a small portion of his letters--about a tenth--and
of these he thought no more in regard to the public than do any ordinary letter-writers of
to-day. Some poems had been produced, and a history of his own Consulship in Greek; but these
are unknown to us. He had already become the greatest orator, perhaps, of all time--and we
have many of the speeches spoken by him. Some we have--those five, namely, telling the story
of Verres--not intended to be spoken, but written for the occasion of the day rather than with
a view to permanent literature. He had been Quæstor, Ædile, Prætor, and Consul, with singular
and undeviating success. He had been honest in the exercise of public functions when to be
honest was to be singular. He had bought golden opinions from all sorts of people. He had been
true to his country, and useful also--a combination which it was given to no other public man
of those days to achieve. Having been Prætor and Consul, he had refused the accustomed rewards,
and had abstained from the provinces. His speeches, with but few exceptions, had hitherto been
made in favor of honesty. They are declamations against injustice, against bribery, against
cruelty, and all on behalf of decent civilized life. Had he died then, he would not have become
the hero of literature, the marvel among men of letters whom the reading world admires; but
he would have been a great man, and would have saved himself from the bitterness of Cæsarean
tongues.

His public work was in truth done. His further service consisted of the government of Cilicia
for a year--an employment that was odious to him, though his performance of it was a blessing
to the province. After that there came the vain struggle with Cæsar, the attempt to make the
best of Cæsar victorious, the last loud shriek on behalf of the Republic, and then all was
over. The fourteen years of life which yet remained to him sufficed for erecting that literary
monument of which I have spoken, but his public usefulness was done. To the reader of his biography
it will seem that these coming fourteen years will lack much of the grace which adorned the
last twenty. The biographer will be driven to make excuses, which he will not do without believing
in the truth of them, but doubting much whether he may beget belief in others. He thinks that
he can see the man passing from one form to another--his doubting devotion to Pompey, his enforced
adherence to Cæsar, his passionate opposition to Antony; but he can still see him true to his
country, and ever on the alert against tyranny and on behalf of pure patriotism.

At the present we have to deal with Cicero in no vacillating spirit, but loudly exultant and
loudly censorious. Within the two years following his return he made a series of speeches,
in all of which we find the altered tone of his mind. There is no longer that belief in the
ultimate success of justice, and ultimate triumph of the Republic, which glowed in his Verrine
and Catiline orations. He is forced to descend in his aspirations. It is not whether Rome shall
be free, or the bench of justice pure, but whether Cicero shall be avenged and Gabinius punished.
It may have been right--it was right--that Cicero should be avenged and Gabinius punished;
but it must be admitted that the subjects are less alluring.

His first oration, as generally received, was made to the Senate in honor of his return. The
second was addressed to the people on the same subject. The third was spoken to the college
of priests, with the view of recovering the ground on which his house had stood, and which
Clodius had attempted to alienate forever by dedicating it to a pretended religious purpose.
The next, as coming on our list, though not so in time, was addressed again to the Senate concerning
official reports made by the public soothsayers as interpreters of occult signs, as to whether
certain portents had been sent by the gods to show that Cicero ought not to have back his house.
Before this was made he had defended Sextius, who as Tribune had been peculiarly serviceable
in assisting his return. This was before a bench of judges; and separated from this, though
made apparently at the same time, is a violent attack upon Vatinius, one of Cæsar's creatures,
who was a witness against Sextius. Then there is a seventh, regarding the disposition of the
provinces among the Proprætors and Proconsuls, the object of which was to enforce the recall
of Piso from Macedonia and Gabinius from Syria, and to win Cæsar's favor by showing that Cæsar
should be allowed to keep the two Gauls and Illyricum. To these must be added two others, made
within the same period, for Cælius and Balbus. The close friendship between Cicero and the
young man Cælius was one of the singular details of the orator's life. Balbus was a Spaniard,
attached to Cæsar, and remarkable as having been the first man not an Italian who achieved
the honor of the Consulship.

It has been disputed whether the first four of these orations were really the work of Cicero,
certain German critics and English scholars having declared them to be "parum Ciceronias"--too
little like Cicero. That is the phrase used by Nobbe, who published a valuable edition of all
Cicero's works, after the text of Ernesti, in a single volume. Mr. Long, in his introduction
to these orations, denounces them in language so strong as to rob them of all chance of absolute
acceptance from those who know the accuracy of Mr. Long's scholarship.[2] There may probably
have been subsequent interpolations. The first of the four, however, is so closely referred
to by Cicero himself in the speech made by him two years subsequently in the defence of Plancius,
that the fact of an address to the Senate in the praise of those who had assisted him in his
return cannot be doubted; and we are expressly told by the orator that, because of the importance
of the occasion, he had written it out before he spoke it.[3] As to the Latinity, it is not
within my scope, nor indeed within my power, to express a confident opinion; but as to the
matter of the speech, I think that Cicero, in his then frame of mind, might have uttered what
is attributed to him. Having said so much, I shall best continue my narrative by dealing with
the four speeches as though they were genuine.

[Sidenote: B.C. 57, ætat. 50.]

Cicero landed at Brundisium on the 5th of August, the day on which his recall from exile had
been enacted by the people, and there met his daughter Tullia, who had come to welcome him
back to Italy on that her birthday. But she had come as a widow, having just lost her first
husband, Piso Frugi. At this time she was not more than nineteen years old. Of Tullia's feelings
we know nothing from her own expressions, as they have not reached us; but from the warmth
of her father's love for her, and by the closeness of their friendship, we are led to imagine
that the joy of her life depended more on him than on any of her three husbands. She did not
live long with either of them, and died soon after the birth of a child, having been divorced
from the third. I take it, there was much of triumph in the meeting, though Piso Frugi had
died so lately.

The return of Cicero to Rome was altogether triumphant. It must be remembered that the contemporary
accounts we have had of it are altogether from his own pen. They are taken chiefly from the
orations I have named above, though subsequent allusions to the glory of his return to Rome
are not uncommon in his works. But had his boasting not been true, the contradictions to them
would have been made in such a way as to have reached our ears. Plutarch, indeed, declares
that Cicero's account of the glory of his return fell short of the truth.

It may be taken for granted that with that feeble monster, the citizen populace of Rome, Cicero
had again risen to a popularity equal to that which had been bestowed upon him when he had
just driven Catiline out of Rome. Of what nature were the crowds who were thus loud in the
praise of their great Consul, and as loud afterward in their rejoicings at the return of the
great exile, we must form our own opinion from circumstantial evidence. There was a mass of
people, with keen ears taking artistic delight in eloquence and in personal graces, but determined
to be idle, and to be fed as well as amused in their idleness; and there were also vast bands
of men ready to fight--bands of gladiators they have been called, though it is probable that
but few of them had ever been trained to the arena--whose business it was to shout as well
as to fight on behalf of their patrons. We shall not be justified in supposing that those who
on the two occasions named gave their sweet voices for Cicero were only the well-ordered, though
idle, proportion of the people, whereas they who had voted against him in favor of Clodius
had all been assassins, bullies, and swordsmen. We shall probably be nearer the mark if we
imagine that the citizens generally were actuated by the prevailing feelings of their leaders
at the moment, but were carried into enthusiasm when enabled, without detriment to their interests,
to express their feelings for one who was in truth popular with them. When Cicero, after the
death of the five conspirators, declared that the men "had lived"--"vixerunt"--his own power
was sufficient to insure the people that they would be safe in praising him. When he came back
to Rome, Pompey had been urgent for his return, and Cæsar had acceded to it. When the bill
was passed for banishing him, the Triumvirate had been against him, and Clodius had been able
to hound on his crew. But Milo also had a crew, and Milo was Cicero's friend. As the Clodian
crew helped to drive Cicero from Rome, so did Milo's crew help to bring him back again.

Cicero, on reaching Rome, went at once to the Capitol, to the temple of Jupiter, and there
returned thanks for the great thing that had been done for him. He was accompanied by a vast
procession who from the temple went with him to his brother's house, where he met his wife,
and where he resided for a time. His own house in the close neighborhood had been destroyed.
He reached Rome on the 4th of September, and on the 5th an opportunity was given to the then
hero of the day for expressing his thanks to the Senate for what they had done for him. His
intellect had not grown rusty in Macedonia, though he had been idle. On the 5th, Cicero spoke
to the Senate; on the 6th, to the people. Before the end of the month he made a much longer
speech to the priests in defence of his own property. Out of the full heart the mouth speaks,
and his heart was very full of the subject.

His first object was to thank the Senate and the leading members of it for their goodness to
him. The glowing language in which this is done goes against the grain with us when we read
continuously the events of his life as told by himself. His last grievous words had been expressions
of despair addressed to Atticus; now he breaks out into a pæan of triumph. We have to remember
that eight months had intervened, and that the time had sufficed to turn darkness into light.
"If I cannot thank you as I ought, O Conscript Fathers, for the undying favors which you have
conferred on me, on my brother, and my children, ascribe it, I beseech you, to the greatness
of the things you have done for me, and not to the defect of my virtue." Then he praises the
two Consuls, naming them, Lentulus and Metellus--Metellus, as the reader will remember, having
till lately been his enemy. He lauds the Prætors and the Tribunes, two of the latter members
having opposed his return; but he is loudest in praise of Pompey--that "Sampsiceramus," that
"Hierosolymarius," that "Arabarches" into whose character he had seen so clearly when writing
from Macedonia to Atticus--that "Cn. Pompey who, by his valor, his glory, his achievements,
stands conspicuously the first of all nations, of all ages, of all history." We cannot but
be angry when we read the words, though we may understand how well he understood that he was
impotent to do anything for the Republic unless he could bring such a man as Pompey to act
with him. We must remember, too, how impossible it was that one Roman should rise above the
falsehood common to Romans. We cannot ourselves always escape even yet from the atmosphere
of duplicity in which policy delights. He describes the state of Rome in his absence. "When
I was gone, you"--you, the Senate--"could decree nothing for your citizens, or for your allies,
or for the dependent kings. The judges could give no judgment; the people could not record
their votes; the Senate availed nothing by its authority. You saw only a silent Forum, a speechless
Senate-house, a city dumb and deserted." We may suppose that Rome was what Cicero described
it to be when he was in exile, and Cæsar had gone to his provinces; but its condition had been
the result of the crushing tyranny of the Triumvirate rather than of Cicero's absence.

Lentulus, the present Consul, had been, he says, a second father, almost a god, to him. But
he would not have needed the hand of a Consul to raise him from the ground, had he not been
wounded by consular hands. Catulus, one of Rome's best citizens, had told him that though Rome
had now and again suffered from a bad Consul, she had never before been afflicted by two together.
While there was one Consul worthy of the name, Catulus had declared that Cicero would be safe.
But there had come two, two together, whose spirits had been so narrow, so low, so depraved,
so burdened with greed and ignorance, "that they had been unable to comprehend, much less to
sustain the splendor of the name of Consul. Not Consuls were they, but buyers and sellers of
provinces." These were Piso and Gabinius, of whom the former was now governor of Macedonia,
and the latter of Syria. Cicero's scorn against these men, who as Consuls had permitted his
exile, became a passion with him. His subsequent hatred of Antony was not as bitter. He had
come there to thank the assembled Senators for their care of him, but he is carried off so
violently by his anger that he devotes a considerable portion of his speech to these indignant
utterances. The reader does not regret it. Abuse makes better reading than praise, has a stronger
vitality, and seems, alas, to come more thoroughly from the heart! Those who think that genuine
invective has its charms would ill spare Piso and Gabinius.

He goes back to his eulogy, and names various Prætors and officers who have worked on his behalf.
Then he declares that by the view of the present Consul, Lentulus, a decree has been passed
in his favor more glorious than has been awarded to any other single Roman citizen--namely
that from all Italy those who wished well to their country should be collected together for
the purpose of bringing him back from his banishment--him, Cicero. There is much in this in
praise of Lentulus, but more in praise of Cicero. Throughout these orations we feel that Cicero
is put forward as the hero, whereas Piso and Gabinius are the demons of the piece. "What could
I leave as a richer legacy to my posterity," he goes on to say, opening another clause of his
speech, "than that the Senate should have decreed that the citizen who had not come forward
in my defence was one regardless of the Republic." By these boastings, though he was at the
moment at the top of the ladder of popularity, he was offending the self-importance of all
around him. He was offending especially Pompey, with whom it was his fate to have to act.[4]
But that was little to the offence he was giving to those who were to come many centuries after
him, who would not look into the matter with sufficient accuracy to find that his vanity deserved
forgiveness because of his humanity and desire for progress. "O Lentulus," he says, at the
end of the oration, "since I am restored to the Republic, as with me the Republic is itself
restored, I will slacken nothing in my efforts at liberty; but, if it may be possible, will
add something to my energy." In translating a word here and there as I have done, I feel at
every expression my incapacity. There is no such thing as good translation. If you wish to
drink the water, with its life and vigor in it, you must go to the fountain and drink it there.

On the day following he made a similar speech to the people--if, indeed, the speech we have
was from his mouth or his pen--as to which it has been remarked that in it he made no allusion
to Clodius, though he was as bitter as ever against the late Consuls. From this we may gather
that, though his audience was delighted to hear him, even in his self-praise, there might have
been dispute had he spoken ill of one who had been popular as Tribune. His praise of Pompey
was almost more fulsome than that of the day before, and the same may be said of his self-glorification.
Of his brother's devotion to him he speaks in touching words, but in words which make us remember
how untrue to him afterward was that very brother. There are phrases so magnificent throughout
this short piece that they obtain from us, as they are read, forgiveness for the writer's faults.
"Sic ulciscar facinorum singula." Let the reader of Latin turn to chapter ix. of the oration
and see how the speaker declares that he will avenge himself against the evil-doers whom he
has denounced.

Cicero, though he had returned triumphant, had come back ruined in purse, except so far as
he could depend on the Senate and the people for reimbursing to him the losses to which he
had been subjected. The decree of the Senate had declared that his goods should be returned
to him, but the validity of such a promise would depend on the value which might be put upon
the goods in question. His house on the Palatine Hill had been razed to the ground; his Tusculan
and Formian villas had been destroyed; his books, his pictures, his marble columns, his very
trees, had been stolen; but, worst of all, an attempt had been made to deprive him forever
of the choicest spot of ground in all the city, the Park Lane of Rome, by devoting the space
which had belonged to him to the service of one of the gods. Clodius had caused something of
a temple to Liberty to be built there, because ground so consecrated was deemed at Rome, as
with us, to be devoted by consecration to the perpetual service of religion. It was with the
view of contesting this point that Cicero made his next speech, Pro Domo Sua, for the recovery
of his house, before the Bench of Priests in Rome. It was for the priests to decide this question.
The Senate could decree the restitution of property generally, but it was necessary that that
spot of ground should be liberated from the thraldom of sacerdotal tenure by sacerdotal interference.
These priests were all men of high birth and distinction in the Republic. Nineteen among them
were "Consulares," or past-Consuls. Superstitious awe affects more lightly the consciences
of priests than the hearts of those who trust the priests for their guidance. Familiarity does
breed contempt. Cicero, in making this speech, probably felt that, if he could carry the people
with him, the College of Priests would not hold the prey with grasping hands. The nineteen
Consulares would care little for the sanctity of the ground if they could be brought to wish
well to Cicero. He did his best. He wrote to Atticus concerning it a few days after the speech
was made, and declared that if he had ever spoken well on any occasion he had done so then,
so deep had been his grief, and so great the importance of the occasion;[5] and he at once
informs his friend of the decision of the Bench, and of the ground on which it was based. "If
he who declares that he dedicated the ground had not been appointed to that business by the
people, nor had been expressly commanded by the people to do it, then that spot of ground can
be restored without any breach of religion." Cicero asserts that he was at once congratulated
on having gained his cause, the world knowing very well that no such authority had been conferred
on Clodius. In the present mood of Rome, all the priests, with the nineteen Consulares, were
no doubt willing that Cicero should have back his ground. The Senate had to interpret the decision,
and on the discussion of the question among them Clodius endeavored to talk against time. When,
however, he had spoken for three hours, he allowed himself to be coughed down. It may be seen
that in some respects even Roman fortitude has been excelled in our days.

In the first portion of this speech, Pro Domo Sua, Cicero devotes himself to a matter which
has no bearing on his house. Concomitant with Cicero's return there had come a famine in Rome.
Such a calamity was of frequent occurrence, though I doubt whether their famines ever led to
mortality so frightful as that which desolated Ireland just before the repeal of the Corn Laws.
No records, as far as I am aware, have reached us of men perishing in the streets; but scarcity
was not uncommon, and on such occasions complaints would become very loud. The feeding of the
people was a matter of great difficulty, and subject to various chances. We do not at all know
what was the number to be fed, including the free and the slaves, but have been led by surmises
to suppose that it was under a million even in the time of Augustus. But even though the number
was no more than five hundred thousand at this time, the procuring of food must have been a
complicated and difficult matter. It was not produced in the country. It was imported chiefly
from Sicily and Africa, and was plentiful or the reverse, not only in accordance with the seasons
but as certain officers of state were diligent and honest, or fraudulent and rapacious. We
know from one of the Verrine orations the nature of the laws on the subject, but cannot but
marvel that, even with the assistance of such laws, the supply could be maintained with any
fair proportion to the demand. The people looked to the government for the supply, and when
it fell short would make their troubles known with seditious grumblings, which would occasionally
assume the guise of insurrection. At this period of Cicero's return food had become scarce
and dear; and Clodius, who was now in arms against Pompey as well as against Cicero, caused
it to be believed that the strangers flocking into Rome to welcome Cicero had eaten up the
food which should have filled the bellies of the people. An idea farther from truth could hardly
have been entertained: no chance influx of visitors on such a population could have had the
supposed effect. But the idea was spread abroad, and it was necessary that something should
be done to quiet the minds of the populace. Pompey had hitherto been the resource in State
difficulties. Pompey had scattered the pirates, who seem, however, at this period to have been
gathering head again. Pompey had conquered Mithridates. Let Pompey have a commission to find
food for Rome. Pompey himself entertained the idea of a commission which should for a time
give him almost unlimited power. Cæsar was increasing his legions and becoming dominant in
the West. Pompey, who still thought himself the bigger man of the two, felt the necessity of
some great step in rivalry of Cæsar. The proposal made on his behalf was that all the treasure
belonging to the State should be placed at his disposal; that he should have an army and a
fleet, and should be for five years superior in authority to every Proconsul in his own province.
This was the first great struggle made by Pompey to strangle the growing power of Cæsar. It
failed altogether.[6] The fear of Cæsar had already become too great in the bosoms of Roman
Senators to permit them to attempt to crush him in his absence. But a mitigated law was passed,
enjoining Pompey to provide the food required, and conferring upon him certain powers. Cicero
was nominated as his first lieutenant, and accepted the position. He never acted, however,
giving it up to his brother Quintus. A speech which he made to the people on the passing of
the law is not extant; but as there was hot blood about it in Rome, he took the opportunity
of justifying the appointment of Pompey in the earlier portion of this oration to the priests.
It must be understood that he did not lend his aid toward giving those greater powers which
Pompey was anxious to obtain. His trust in Pompey had never been a perfect trust since the
first days of the Triumvirate. To Cicero's thinking, both Pompey and Cæsar were conspirators
against the Republic. Cæsar was the bolder, and therefore the more dangerous. It might probably
come to pass that the services of Pompey would be needed for restraining Cæsar. Pompey naturally
belonged to the "optimates," while Cæsar was as naturally a conspirator. But there never again
could come a time in which Cicero would willingly intrust Pompey with such power as was given
to him nine years before by the Lex Manilia. Nevertheless, he could still say grand things
in praise of Pompey.