At Richmond, a stout elderly lady, whose whole demeanour indicated that she belonged (as Mrs.
Stowe's Aunt Chloe expresses it) to one of the "firstest families," stepped into the carriage,
and took a seat near my master.  Seeing me passing quickly along the platform, she sprang up
as if taken by a fit, and exclaimed, "Bless my soul!  there goes my nigger, Ned!"

My master said, "No; that is my boy."

The lady paid no attention to this; she poked her head out of the window, and bawled to me,
"You Ned, come to me, sir, you runaway rascal!"

On my looking round she drew her head in, and said to my master, "I beg your pardon, sir, I
was sure it was my nigger; I never in my life saw two black pigs more alike than your boy and
my Ned."

After the disappointed lady had resumed her seat, and the train had moved off, she closed her
eyes, slightly raising her hands, and in a sanctified tone said to my master, "Oh! I hope,
sir, your boy will not turn out to be so worthless as my Ned has.  Oh! I was as kind to him
as if he had been my own son.  Oh! sir, it grieves me very much to think that after all I did
for him he should go off without having any cause whatever."

"When did he leave you?" asked Mr. Johnson.

"About eighteen months ago, and I have never seen hair or hide of him since."

"Did he have a wife?" enquired a very respectable-looking young gentleman, who was sitting
near my master and opposite to the lady.

"No, sir; not when he left, though he did have one a little before that.  She was very unlike
him; she was as good and as faithful a nigger as any one need wish to have.  But, poor thing!
she became so ill, that she was unable to do much work; so I thought it would be best to sell
her, to go to New Orleans, where the climate is nice and warm."

"I suppose she was very glad to go South for the restoration of her health?" said the gentleman.

"No; she was not," replied the lady, "for niggers never know what is best for them.  She took
on a great deal about leaving Ned and the little nigger; but, as she was so weakly, I let her go."

"Was she good-looking?" asked the young passenger, who was evidently not of the same opinion
as the talkative lady, and therefore wished her to tell all she knew.

"Yes; she was very handsome, and much whiter than I am; and therefore will have no trouble
in getting another husband.  I am sure I wish her well.  I asked the speculator who bought
her to sell her to a good master.  Poor thing! she has my prayers, and I know she prays for
me. She was a good Christian, and always used to pray for my soul.  It was through her earliest
prayers," continued the lady, "that I was first led to seek forgiveness of my sins, before
I was converted at the great camp-meeting."

This caused the lady to snuffle and to draw from her pocket a richly embroidered handkerchief,
and apply it to the corner of her eyes.  But my master could not see that it was at all soiled.

The silence which prevailed for a few moments was broken by the gentleman's saying, "As your
'July' was such a very good girl, and had served you so faithfully before she lost her health,
don't you think it would have been better to have emancipated her?"

"No, indeed I do not!" scornfully exclaimed the lady, as she impatiently crammed the fine handkerchief
into a little work-bag.  "I have no patience with people who set niggers at liberty.  It is
the very worst thing you can do for them.  My dear husband just before he died willed all his
niggers free.  But I and all our friends knew very well that he was too good a man to have
ever thought of doing such an unkind and foolish thing, had he been in his right mind, and,
therefore we had the will altered as it should have been in the first place."

"Did you mean, madam," asked my master, "that willing the slaves free was unjust to yourself,
or unkind to them?"

"I mean that it was decidedly unkind to the servants themselves.  It always seems to me such
a cruel thing to turn niggers loose to shift for themselves, when there are so many good masters
to take care of them.  As for myself," continued the considerate lady, "I thank the Lord my
dear husband left me and my son well provided for.  Therefore I care nothing for the niggers,
on my own account, for they are a great deal more trouble than they are worth, I sometimes
wish that there was not one of them in the world; for the ungrateful wretches are always running
away.  I have lost no less than ten since my poor husband died. It's ruinous, sir!"

"But as you are well provided for, I suppose you do not feel the loss very much," said the
passenger.

"I don't feel it at all," haughtily continued the good soul; "but that is no reason why property
should be squandered.  If my son and myself had the money for those valuable niggers, just
see what a great deal of good we could do for the poor, and in sending missionaries abroad
to the poor heathen, who have never heard the name of our blessed Redeemer.  My dear son who
is a good Christian minister has advised me not to worry and send my soul to hell for the sake
of niggers; but to sell every blessed one of them for what they will fetch, and go and live
in peace with him in New York.  This I have concluded to do.  I have just been to Richmond
and made arrangements with my agent to make clean work of the forty that are left."

"Your son being a good Christian minister," said the gentleman, "It's strange he did not advise
you to let the poor negroes have their liberty and go North."

"It's not at all strange, sir; it's not at all strange.  My son knows what's best for the niggers;
he has always told me that they were much better off than the free niggers in the North.  In
fact, I don't believe there are any white labouring people in the world who are as well off
as the slaves."

"You are quite mistaken, madam," said the young man.  "For instance, my own widowed mother,
before she died, emancipated all her slaves, and sent them to Ohio, where they are getting
along well.  I saw several of them last summer myself."

"Well," replied the lady, "freedom may do for your ma's niggers, but it will never do for mine;
and, plague them, they shall never have it; that is the word, with the bark on it."

"If freedom will not do for your slaves," replied the passenger, "I have no doubt your Ned
and the other nine negroes will find out their mistake, and return to their old home.

"Blast them!" exclaimed the old lady, with great emphasis, "if I ever get them, I will cook
their infernal hash, and tan their accursed black hides well for them!  God forgive me," added
the old soul, "the niggers will make me lose all my religion!"

By this time the lady had reached her destination.  The gentleman got out at the next station
beyond.  As soon as she was gone, the young Southerner said to my master, "What a d----d shame
it is for that old whining hypocritical humbug to cheat the poor negroes out of their liberty!
If she has religion, may the devil prevent me from ever being converted!"

For the purpose of somewhat disguising myself, I bought and wore a very good second-hand white
beaver, an article which I had never indulged in before.  So just before we arrived at Washington,
an uncouth planter, who had been watching me very closely, said to my master, "I reckon, stranger,
you are 'SPILING' that ere nigger of yourn, by letting him wear such a devilish fine hat. 
Just look at the quality on it; the President couldn't wear a better.  I should just like to
go and kick it overboard." His friend touched him, and said, "Don't speak so to a gentleman."
"Why not?" exclaimed the fellow.  He grated his short teeth, which appeared to be nearly worn
away by the incessant chewing of tobacco, and said, "It always makes me itch all over, from
head to toe, to get hold of every d----d nigger I see dressed like a white man. Washington
is run away with SPILED and free niggers.  If I had my way I would sell every d----d rascal
of 'em way down South, where the devil would be whipped out on 'em."

This man's fierce manner made my master feel rather nervous, and therefore he thought the less
he said the better; so he walked off without making any reply.  In a few minutes we were landed
at Washington, where we took a conveyance and hurried off to the train for Baltimore.

We left our cottage on Wednesday morning, the 21st of December, 1848, and arrived at Baltimore,
Saturday evening, the 24th (Christmas Eve). Baltimore was the last slave port of any note at
which we stopped.

On arriving there we felt more anxious than ever, because we knew not what that last dark night
would bring forth.  It is true we were near the goal, but our poor hearts were still as if
tossed at sea; and, as there was another great and dangerous bar to pass, we were afraid our
liberties would be wrecked, and, like the ill-fated Royal Charter, go down for ever just off
the place we longed to reach.

They are particularly watchful at Baltimore to prevent slaves from escaping into Pennsylvania,
which is a free State.  After I had seen my master into one of the best carriages, and was
just about to step into mine, an officer, a full-blooded Yankee of the lower order, saw me.
He came quickly up, and, tapping me on the shoulder, said in his unmistakable native twang,
together with no little display of his authority, "Where are you going, boy?" "To Philadelphia,
sir," I humbly replied.  "Well, what are you going there for?"  "I am travelling with my master,
who is in the next carriage, sir." "Well, I calculate you had better get him out; and be mighty
quick about it, because the train will soon be starting.  It is against my rules to let any
man take a slave past here, unless he can satisfy them in the office that he has a right to
take him along."

The officer then passed on and left me standing upon the platform, with my anxious heart apparently
palpitating in the throat.  At first I scarcely knew which way to turn.  But it soon occurred
to me that the good God, who had been with us thus far, would not forsake us at the eleventh
hour.  So with renewed hope I stepped into my master's carriage, to inform him of the difficulty.
I found him sitting at the farther end, quite alone.  As soon as he looked up and saw me, he
smiled.  I also tried to wear a cheerful countenance, in order to break the shock of the sad
news.  I knew what made him smile.  He was aware that if we were fortunate we should reach
our destination at five o'clock the next morning, and this made it the more painful to communicate
what the officer had said; but, as there was no time to lose, I went up to him and asked him
how he felt.  He said "Much better," and that he thanked God we were getting on so nicely.
I then said we were not getting on quite so well as we had anticipated.  He anxiously and quickly
asked what was the matter.  I told him.  He started as if struck by lightning, and exclaimed,
"Good Heavens! William, is it possible that we are, after all, doomed to hopeless bondage?"
I could say nothing, my heart was too full to speak, for at first I did not know what to do.
However we knew it would never do to turn back to the "City of Destruction," like Bunyan's
Mistrust and Timorous, because they saw lions in the narrow way after ascending the hill Difficulty;
but press on, like noble Christian and Hopeful, to the great city in which dwelt a few "shining
ones."  So, after a few moments, I did all I could to encourage my companion, and we stepped
out and made for the office; but how or where my master obtained sufficient courage to face
the tyrants who had power to blast all we held dear, heaven only knows!  Queen Elizabeth could
not have been more terror-stricken, on being forced to land at the traitors' gate leading to
the Tower, than we were on entering that office.  We felt that our very existence was at stake,
and that we must either sink or swim. But, as God was our present and mighty helper in this
as well as in all former trials, we were able to keep our heads up and press forwards.

On entering the room we found the principal man, to whom my master said, "Do you wish to see
me, sir?"  "Yes," said this eagle-eyed officer; and he added, "It is against our rules, sir,
to allow any person to take a slave out of Baltimore into Philadelphia, unless he can satisfy
us that he has a right to take him along."  "Why is that?" asked my master, with more firmness
than could be expected.  "Because, sir," continued he, in a voice and manner that almost chilled
our blood, "if we should suffer any gentleman to take a slave past here into Philadelphia;
and should the gentleman with whom the slave might be travelling turn out not to be his rightful
owner; and should the proper master come and prove that his slave escaped on our road, we shall
have him to pay for; and, therefore, we cannot let any slave pass here without receiving security
to show, and to satisfy us, that it is all right."

This conversation attracted the attention of the large number of bustling passengers.  After
the officer had finished, a few of them said, "Chit, chit, chit;" not because they thought
we were slaves endeavouring to escape, but merely because they thought my master was a slaveholder
and invalid gentleman, and therefore it was wrong to detain him.  The officer, observing that
the passengers sympathised with my master, asked him if he was not acquainted with some gentleman
in Baltimore that he could get to endorse for him, to show that I was his property, and that
he had a right to take me off.  He said, "No;" and added, "I bought tickets in Charleston to
pass us through to Philadelphia, and therefore you have no right to detain us here." "Well,
sir," said the man, indignantly, "right or no right, we shan't let you go."  These sharp words
fell upon our anxious hearts like the crack of doom, and made us feel that hope only smiles
to deceive.

For a few moments perfect silence prevailed.  My master looked at me, and I at him, but neither
of us dared to speak a word, for fear of making some blunder that would tend to our detection.
We knew that the officers had power to throw us into prison, and if they had done so we must
have been detected and driven back, like the vilest felons, to a life of slavery, which we
dreaded far more than sudden death.

We felt as though we had come into deep waters and were about being overwhelmed, and that the
slightest mistake would clip asunder the last brittle thread of hope by which we were suspended,
and let us down for ever into the dark and horrible pit of misery and degradation from which
we were straining every nerve to escape.  While our hearts were crying lustily unto Him who
is ever ready and able to save, the conductor of the train that we had just left stepped in.
The officer asked if we came by the train with him from Washington; he said we did, and left
the room.  Just then the bell rang for the train to leave; and had it been the sudden shock
of an earthquake it could not have given us a greater thrill.  The sound of the bell caused
every eye to flash with apparent interest, and to be more steadily fixed upon us than before.
But, as God would have it, the officer all at once thrust his fingers through his hair, and
in a state of great agitation said, "I really don't know what to do; I calculate it is all
right."  He then told the clerk to run and tell the conductor to "let this gentleman and slave
pass;" adding, "As he is not well, it is a pity to stop him here. We will let him go." My master
thanked him, and stepped out and hobbled across the platform as quickly as possible.  I tumbled
him unceremoniously into one of the best carriages, and leaped into mine just as the train
was gliding off towards our happy destination.

We thought of this plan about four days before we left Macon; and as we had our daily employment
to attend to, we only saw each other at night. So we sat up the four long nights talking over
the plan and making preparations.

We had also been four days on the journey; and as we travelled night and day, we got but very
limited opportunities for sleeping.  I believe nothing in the world could have kept us awake
so long but the intense excitement, produced by the fear of being retaken on the one hand,
and the bright anticipation of liberty on the other.

We left Baltimore about eight o'clock in the evening; and not being aware of a stopping-place
of any consequence between there and Philadelphia, and also knowing that if we were fortunate
we should be in the latter place early the next morning, I thought I might indulge in a few
minutes' sleep in the car; but I, like Bunyan's Christian in the arbour, went to sleep at the
wrong time, and took too long a nap. So, when the train reached Havre de Grace, all the first-class
passengers had to get out of the carriages and into a ferry-boat, to be ferried across the
Susquehanna river, and take the train on the opposite side.

The road was constructed so as to be raised or lowered to suit the tide.  So they rolled the
luggage-vans on to the boat, and off on the other side; and as I was in one of the apartments
adjoining a baggage-car, they considered it unnecessary to awaken me, and tumbled me over with
the luggage.  But when my master was asked to leave his seat, he found it very dark, and cold,
and raining.  He missed me for the first time on the journey.  On all previous occasions, as
soon as the train stopped, I was at hand to assist him.  This caused many slaveholders to praise
me very much: they said they had never before seen a slave so attentive to his master: and
therefore my absence filled him with terror and confusion; the children of Israel could not
have felt more troubled on arriving at the Red Sea.  So he asked the conductor if he had seen
anything of his slave.  The man being somewhat of an abolitionist, and believing that my master
was really a slaveholder, thought he would tease him a little respecting me.  So he said, "No,
sir; I haven't seen anything of him for some time: I have no doubt he has run away, and is
in Philadelphia, free, long before now." My master knew that there was nothing in this; so
he asked the conductor if he would please to see if he could find me.  The man indignantly
replied, "I am no slave-hunter; and as far as I am concerned everybody must look after their
own niggers."  He went off and left the confused invalid to fancy whatever he felt inclined.
My master at first thought I must have been kidnapped into slavery by some one, or left, or
perhaps killed on the train.  He also thought of stopping to see if he could hear anything
of me, but he soon remembered that he had no money.  That night all the money we had was consigned
to my own pocket, because we thought, in case there were any pickpockets about, a slave's pocket
would be the last one they would look for. However, hoping to meet me some day in a land of
liberty, and as he had the tickets, he thought it best upon the whole to enter the boat and
come off to Philadelphia, and endeavour to make his way alone in this cold and hollow world
as best he could.  The time was now up, so he went on board and came across with feelings that
can be better imagined than described.

After the train had got fairly on the way to Philadelphia, the guard came into my car and gave
me a violent shake, and bawled out at the same time, "Boy, wake up!"  I started, almost frightened
out of my wits.  He said, "Your master is scared half to death about you."  That frightened
me still more--I thought they had found him out; so I anxiously inquired what was the matter.
The guard said, "He thinks you have run away from him."  This made me feel quite at ease. 
I said, "No, sir; I am satisfied my good master doesn't think that."  So off I started to see
him.  He had been fearfully nervous, but on seeing me he at once felt much better.  He merely
wished to know what had become of me.

On returning to my seat, I found the conductor and two or three other persons amusing themselves
very much respecting my running away.  So the guard said, "Boy, what did your master want?"*
I replied, "He merely wished to know what had become of me."  "No," said the man, "that was
not it; he thought you had taken French leave, for parts unknown.  I never saw a fellow so
badly scared about losing his slave in my life.  Now," continued the guard, "let me give you
a little friendly advice.  When you get to Philadelphia, run away and leave that cripple, and
have your liberty."  "No, sir," I indifferently replied, "I can't promise to do that."  "Why
not?" said the conductor, evidently much surprised; "don't you want your liberty?"  "Yes, sir,"
I replied; "but I shall never run away from such a good master as I have at present."

* I may state here that every man slave is called boy till he is very old, then the more respectable
slaveholders call him uncle.  The women are all girls till they are aged, then they are called
aunts.  This is the reason why Mrs. Stowe calls her characters Uncle Tom, Aunt Chloe, Uncle
Tiff, &c.

One of the men said to the guard, "Let him alone; I guess he will open his eyes when he gets
to Philadelphia, and see things in another light." After giving me a good deal of information,
which I afterwards found to be very useful, they left me alone.

I also met with a coloured gentleman on this train, who recommended me to a boarding-house
that was kept by an abolitionist, where he thought I would be quite safe, if I wished to run
away from my master.  I thanked him kindly, but of course did not let him know who we were.
Late at night, or rather early in the morning, I heard a fearful whistling of the steam-engine;
so I opened the window and looked out, and saw a large number of flickering lights in the distance,
and heard a passenger in the next carriage--who also had his head out of the window--say to
his companion, "Wake up, old horse, we are at Philadelphia!"

The sight of those lights and that announcement made me feel almost as happy as Bunyan's Christian
must have felt when he first caught sight of the cross.  I, like him, felt that the straps
that bound the heavy burden to my back began to pop, and the load to roll off.  I also looked,
and looked again, for it appeared very wonderful to me how the mere sight of our first city
of refuge should have all at once made my hitherto sad and heavy heart become so light and
happy.  As the train speeded on, I rejoiced and thanked God with all my heart and soul for
his great kindness and tender mercy, in watching over us, and bringing us safely through.

