 (44) Lit. "assume their boar-spears and that forward attitude of
    body."

 (45) Lit. "it will not be at any rate from behaving correctly."

Foot-traps are also set for the wild boar, similar to those for deer and in the same sort of
places; the same inspections and methods of pursuit are needed, with consequent attacks and
an appeal to the boar-spear in the end.

Any attempt to capture the young pigs will cost the huntsman some rough work. (46) The young
are not left alone, as long as they are small; and when the hounds have hit upon them or they
get wind of something wrong, they will disappear like magic, vanishing into the forest. As
a rule, both parents attend on their own progeny, and are not pleasant then to meddle with,
being more disposed to do battle for their young than for themselves.

 (46) Lit. "the piglings will resent it (sc. {to aliskesthai})
    strongly"; al. "the adult (sub. {to therion}) will stand anything
    rather."

XI

Lions, leopards, lynxes, panthers, bears and all other such game are to be captured in foreign
countries--about Mount Pangaeus and Cittus beyond Macedonia; (1) or again, in Nysa beyond Syria,
and upon other mountains suited to the breeding of large game.

 (1) Of these places, Mt. Pangaeus (mod. Pirnari) (see "Hell." V. ii.
    17), Cittus (s. Cissus, mod. Khortiatzi), N. W. of the Chalcidice,
    Mysian Olympus, and Pindus are well known. Nysa has not been
    verified hitherto, I think. Sturz cf. Bochart, "Hieroz." Part I.
    lib. iii. c. 1, p. 722. Strabo, 637 (xv. 1. 7), mentions a Mount
    Nysa in India sacred to Dionysus, and cites Soph. "Frag." 782--

{othen kateidon ton bebakkhiomenen brotoisi kleinon Nusan... k.t.l.},

    but it is a far cry from Xenophon's Syria to India. Possibly it is
    to be sought for in the region of Mt. Amanus.

In the mountains, owing to the difficulty of the ground, (2) some of these animals are captured
by means of poison--the drug aconite--which the hunters throw down for them, (3) taking care
to mix it with the favourite food of the wild best, near pools and drinking-places or wherever
else they are likely to pay visits. Others of them, as they descend into the plains at night,
may be cut off by parties mounted upon horseback and well armed, and so captured, but not without
causing considerable danger to their captors. (4)

 (2) Or, "the inaccessibility of their habitats."

 (3) "The method is for the trapper to throw it down mixed with the
    food which the particular creature likes best."

 (4) For the poison method see Pollux, v. 82; Plin. "H. N." viii. 27.

In some cases the custom is to construct large circular pits of some depth, leaving a single
pillar of earth in the centre, on the top of which at nightfall they set a goat fast-bound,
and hedge the pit about with timber, so as to prevent the wild beasts seeing over, and without
a portal of admission. What happens then is this: the wild beasts, hearing the bleating in
the night, keep scampering round the barrier, and finding no passage, leap over it, and are
caught. (5)

 (5) See "Tales from the Fjeld," Sir George W. Dasent, "Father Bruin in
    the Corner."

XII

