CHAPTER IV Stay in Chicago and Visit to the World's Fair
   A Round Trip on the Exposition Grounds
   Visit to the Midway Plaisance
        Diamond Match Co, Workingmen's Home
        Congress of Beauty, California Nursery and Citrus Tree
                Exhibit
        Electric Scenic Theater, Libbey Glass Works
        Irish Village and Donegal Castle, Japanese Bazaar
        Javanese Village, German Village
        Pompeii Panorama. Persian Theater
        Model of the Eiffel Tower, Street in Cairo
        Algerian and Tunisian Village, Kilauea Panorama
        American Indian Village, Chinese Village
        Wild East Show, Lapland Village
        Dahomey Village, Austrian Village
        Ferris Wheel, Ice Railway
        Cathedral of St. Peter in miniature, Moorish Palace
        Turkish Village, Panorama of the Bernese Alps
        South Sea Islanders' Village. Hagenbeck's Zoological Arena
        Irish Village and Blarney Castle, etc.
   Visit to the Exposition Structures.
        Manufactures Building and on Manufactures
        U.S. Government Building and on the Development of the
                Republic
        Fisheries Building and on Fisheries
        Agricultural Building and on Agriculture
        Live Stock Exhibit, Dairy and Forestry Buildings
        Palace of Mechanical Arts and on Machinery
        Administration Building
        Electricity Building and on Electricity, the "Golden or
                Happy Age"
        Mines and Mining Building and on Minerals
        Transportation Building and on Railroad, Marine, and
                Ordinary Road Vehicle Conveyances
        Palace of Horticulture and on Horticulture
        Liberal Arts Building. Educational Exhibits
   Chicago, its Growth and Importance
        Woman's Building and on Women
        Art Palace and on Art
        Anthropological Building
        Foreign and State Buildings
        Financial Account of the World's Fair
        Statistical Table of International Expositions

CONCLUSION

INTRODUCTION

Experience, this greatest of all teachers, will undoubtedly have convinced many of my readers
that the most delightful voyage is only capable of maintaining its charms when made amidst
congenial fellow-travelers. The grandest scenes can be fully enjoyed and duly appreciated when
viewed through an atmosphere of physical comfort. Thus, in order to demonstrate the accuracy
of the assertion:

    Voyaging with Mr. James and his family was
    attractive and enjoyable to me in every respect,

I must make the reader acquainted with my amiable traveling companions, as well as with their
floating home, the beautiful steam yacht "Marguerite."

Her owner, Captain S. R. James, is a stately, fine-looking, accomplished gentleman, and quite
a linguist. To me it was a source of unusual pleasure to discuss French and German literature
occasionally during our voyage with one who has given so much attention to these languages.

Mr. James was styled by the Buffalo Courier "a typical New Yorker;" but he impresses me more
as a typified English gentleman of the thorough school, and this impression is confirmed as
I reflect upon his conduct to those fortunate enough to be associated with him in any capacity.

I trust the reader will pardon me if I warmly eulogize MR. JAMES, his lovely WIFE and their
FOUR sweet CHILDREN, together with Miss SARAH E. CAMPBELL, the very amiable sister of Mrs.
James--who were my traveling companions on this eventful trip; for, certainly, I was extremely
fortunate in my compagnons de voyage, whom I have thus introduced to the reader. They abandoned
their lovely home for the purpose of undertaking the gigantic enterprise of making a canal
and lake voyage to the White City.

