'Well, sir,' said Mrs Blossom, 'a woman of my years, as always lived in one village all her
life till I came to London, it do seem a great move to go across the sea.  But as you all think
as it 'ud be a good thing for Posy, and as Mr Fleming do wish little Meg and Robin to go along
with us, which are like my own children, and as he's to be in the same ship, I'm not the woman
to say No.  I'm a good hand at washing and ironing, and sewing, and keeping a little shop,
or anything else as turns up; and there's ten years' good work in me yet; by which time little
Meg'll be a stout, grown-up young woman; to say nothing of Posy, who's old enough to get her
own living now.  I can't say as I like the sea, quite the contrairy; but I can put up with
it; and Mr Fleming'll be there to see as the ship goes all right, and doesn't lose hisself.
So I'll be ready by the time the ship's ready.'

They were all ready in time as Mrs Blossom had promised, for there were not many preparations
to be made.  Little Meg's red frock was taken out of pawn, with all the other things, and Mrs
Blossom went down to her native village to visit it for the last time; but Posy shrank from
being seen there by the neighbours again.  She, and Meg, and Robin went once more for a farewell
look at Temple Gardens.  It was the first time she had been in the streets since she had gone
back to her mother, and she seemed ashamed and alarmed at every eye that met hers.  When they
stood looking at the river, with its swift, cruel current, Posy shivered and trembled until
she was obliged to turn away and sit down on a bench.  She was glad, she said, to get home
again, and she would go out no more till the day came when Mr George drove them all down to
the docks, with the few boxes which contained their worldly goods.

Dr Christie and his wife were down at the ship to see them off, and they kissed Meg tenderly
as they bade her farewell.  When the last minute was nearly come, Mr George took little Meg's
small hand in his large one, and laid the other upon her head.

'Little woman, tell us that verse again,' he said, 'that verse as you've always gone and believed
in, and acted on.'

'That as mother and me heard preached from the streets?' asked Meg.

Mr George nodded silently.

'It's quite true,' said little Meg, in a tone of perfect confidence, 'because it's in the Bible,
and Jesus said it.  Besides, God did everythink I asked Him.

SOME POPULAR STORIES BY

HESBA STRETTON

Author of "Jessica's First Prayer"

Cobwebs and Cables.  Engravings by GORDON BROWN.  Imperial 16mo, gilt edges, 5s.

Half Brothers.  Crown 8vo, 5s.

Carola.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Through a Needle's Eye.  Illustrated.  Large crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 3s. 6d.

David Lloyd's Last Will.

Bede's Charity.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, gilt edges, 2s. 6d.

The Children of Cloverley.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

Enoch Roden's Training.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

Fern's Hollow.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

The Fishers of Derby Haven.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

In the Hollow of his Hand.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

Pilgrim Street.  A Story of Manchester Life.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

A Thorny Path.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s.

Alone in London.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

Cassy.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

The Crew of the Dolphin.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

The King's Servants.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

Little Meg's Children.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

The Lord's Purse-Bearers.  Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt, 1s. 6d.

Lost Gip.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

Max Kromer.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

The Storm of Life.  Illustrated.  Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.