In discussing the evacuation of the posts in 1794 Jay was met by a demand that complete freedom
of the Northwestern Indian trade should be granted to British subjects. It was furthermore
proposed by Lord Grenville[182] that, "Whereas it is now understood that the river Mississippi
would at no point thereof be intersected by such westward line as is described in the said
treaty [1783]; and whereas it was stipulated in the said treaty that the navigation of the
Mississippi should be free to both parties"--one of two new propositions should be accepted
regarding the northwestern boundary. The maps in American State Papers, Foreign Relations,
I., 492, show that both these proposals extended Great Britain's territory so as to embrace
the Grand Portage and the lake region of northern Minnesota, one of the best of the Northwest
Company's fur-trading regions south of the line, and in connection by the Red river with the
Canadian river systems.[183] They were rejected by Jay. Secretary Randolph urged him to hasten
the removal of the British, stating that the delay asked for, to allow the traders to collect
their Indian debts, etc., would have a bad effect upon the Indians, and protesting that free
communication for the British would strike deep into our Indian trade.[184] The definitive
treaty included the following provisions:[185] The posts were to be evacuated before June 1,
1796. "All settlers and traders, within the precincts or jurisdiction of the said posts, shall
continue to enjoy, unmolested, all their property of every kind, and shall be protected therein.
They shall be at full liberty to remain there, or to remove with all or any part of their effects;
and it shall also be free to them to sell their lands, houses, or effects, or to retain the
property thereof, at their discretion; such of them as shall continue to reside within the
said boundary lines shall not be compelled to become citizens of the United States, or to take
any oath of allegiance to the government thereof; but they shall be at full liberty to do so
if they think proper, and they shall make and declare their election within one year after
the evacuation aforesaid. And all persons who shall continue there after the expiration of
the said year without having declared their intention of remaining subjects of his British
Majesty shall be considered as having elected to become citizens of the United States." "It
is agreed that it shall at all times be free to His Majesty's subjects, and to the Indians
dwelling on either side of the said boundary line, freely to pass and repass by land or inland
navigation into the respective territories and countries of the two parties on the continent
of America (the country within the limits of the Hudson's Bay Company only excepted), and to
navigate all the lakes, rivers and waters thereof, and freely to carry on trade and commerce
with each other."

In his elaborate defence of Jay's treaty, Alexander Hamilton paid much attention to the question
of the fur trade. Defending Jay for permitting so long a delay in evacuation and for granting
right of entry into our fields, he minimized the value of the trade. So far from being worth
$800,000 annually, he asserted the trade within our limits would not be worth $100,000, seven-eighths
of the traffic being north of the line. This estimate of the value of the northwestern trade
was too low. In the course of his paper he made this observation:[186]

