The marriage between Gerard Maule and Adelaide Palliser was celebrated with great glory at
Matching, and was mentioned in all the leading papers as an alliance in high life. When it
became known to Mr. Maule, Senior, that this would be so, and that the lady would have a very
considerable fortune from the old Duke, he reconciled himself to the marriage altogether, and
at once gave way in that matter of Maule Abbey. Nothing he thought would be more suitable than
that the young people should live at the old family place. So Maule Abbey was fitted up, and
Mr. and Mrs. Maule have taken up their residence there. Under the influence of his wife he
has promised to attend to his farming, and proposes to do no more than go out and see the hounds
when they come into his neighbourhood. Let us hope that he may prosper. Should the farming
come to a good end more will probably have been due to his wife's enterprise than to his own.
The energetic father is, as all the world knows, now in pursuit of a widow with three thousand
a year who has lately come out in Cavendish Square.

Of poor Lord Fawn no good account can be given. To his thinking, official life had none of
those drawbacks with which the fantastic feelings of Phineas Finn had invested it. He could
have been happy for ever at the India Board or at the Colonial Office;--but his life was made
a burden to him by the affair of the Bonteen murder. He was charged with having nearly led
to the fatal catastrophe of Phineas Finn's condemnation by his erroneous evidence, and he could
not bear the accusation. Then came the further affair of Mr. Emilius, and his mind gave way;--and
he disappeared. Let us hope that he may return some day with renewed health, and again be of
service to his country.

Poetical justice reached Mr. Quintus Slide of The People's Banner. The acquittal and following
glories of Phineas Finn were gall and wormwood to him; and he continued his attack upon the
member for Tankerville even after it was known that he had refused office, and was about to
be married to Madame Goesler. In these attacks he made allusions to Lady Laura which brought
Lord Chiltern down upon him, and there was an action for libel. The paper had to pay damages
and costs, and the proprietors resolved that Mr. Quintus Slide was too energetic for their
purposes. He is now earning his bread in some humble capacity on the staff of The Ballot Box,--which
is supposed to be the most democratic daily newspaper published in London. Mr. Slide has, however,
expressed his intention of seeking his fortune in New York.

Laurence Fitzgibbon certainly did himself a good turn by his obliging deference to the opinion
of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has been in office ever since. It must be acknowledged
of all our leading statesmen that gratitude for such services is their characteristic. It is
said that he spends much of his eloquence in endeavouring to make his wife believe that the
air of County Mayo is the sweetest in the world. Hitherto, since his marriage, this eloquence
has been thrown away, for she has always been his companion through the Session in London.

It is rumoured that Barrington Erle is to be made Secretary for Ireland, but his friends doubt
whether the office will suit him.

