"That's what I thought. It was curious. It clean stumped me. I says to myself, what can he
want with that thing? Well, when he come out I stood back out of sight, and then tracked him
to a second-hand slop-shop and see him buy a red flannel shirt and some old ragged clothes--just
the ones he's got on now, as you've described. Then I went down to the wharf and hid my things
aboard the up-river boat that we had picked out, and then started back and had another streak
of luck. I seen our other pal lay in HIS stock of old rusty second-handers. We got the di'monds
and went aboard the boat.

"But now we was up a stump, for we couldn't go to bed. We had to set up and watch one another.
Pity, that was; pity to put that kind of a strain on us, because there was bad blood between
us from a couple of weeks back, and we was only friends in the way of business. Bad anyway,
seeing there was only two di'monds betwixt three men. First we had supper, and then tramped
up and down the deck together smoking till most midnight; then we went and set down in my stateroom
and locked the doors and looked in the piece of paper to see if the di'monds was all right,
then laid it on the lower berth right in full sight; and there we set, and set, and by-and-by
it got to be dreadful hard to keep awake. At last Bud Dixon he dropped off. As soon as he was
snoring a good regular gait that was likely to last, and had his chin on his breast and looked
permanent, Hal Clayton nodded towards the di'monds and then towards the outside door, and I
understood. I reached and got the paper, and then we stood up and waited perfectly still; Bud
never stirred; I turned the key of the outside door very soft and slow, then turned the knob
the same way, and we went tiptoeing out onto the guard, and shut the door very soft and gentle.

"There warn't nobody stirring anywhere, and the boat was slipping along, swift and steady,
through the big water in the smoky moonlight. We never said a word, but went straight up onto
the hurricane-deck and plumb back aft, and set down on the end of the sky-light. Both of us
knowed what that meant, without having to explain to one another. Bud Dixon would wake up and
miss the swag, and would come straight for us, for he ain't afeard of anything or anybody,
that man ain't. He would come, and we would heave him overboard, or get killed trying. It made
me shiver, because I ain't as brave as some people, but if I showed the white feather--well,
I knowed better than do that. I kind of hoped the boat would land somers, and we could skip
ashore and not have to run the risk of this row, I was so scared of Bud Dixon, but she was
an upper-river tub and there warn't no real chance of that.

"Well, the time strung along and along, and that fellow never come! Why, it strung along till
dawn begun to break, and still he never come. 'Thunder,' I says, 'what do you make out of this?--ain't
it suspicious?' 'Land!' Hal says, 'do you reckon he's playing us?--open the paper!' I done
it, and by gracious there warn't anything in it but a couple of little pieces of loaf-sugar!
THAT'S the reason he could set there and snooze all night so comfortable. Smart? Well, I reckon!
He had had them two papers all fixed and ready, and he had put one of them in place of t'other
right under our noses.

"We felt pretty cheap. But the thing to do, straight off, was to make a plan; and we done it.
We would do up the paper again, just as it was, and slip in, very elaborate and soft, and lay
it on the bunk again, and let on WE didn't know about any trick, and hadn't any idea he was
a-laughing at us behind them bogus snores of his'n; and we would stick by him, and the first
night we was ashore we would get him drunk and search him, and get the di'monds; and DO for
him, too, if it warn't too risky. If we got the swag, we'd GOT to do for him, or he would hunt
us down and do for us, sure. But I didn't have no real hope. I knowed we could get him drunk--he
was always ready for that--but what's the good of it? You might search him a year and never
find--Well, right there I catched my breath and broke off my thought! For an idea went ripping
through my head that tore my brains to rags--and land, but I felt gay and good! You see, I
had had my boots off, to unswell my feet, and just then I took up one of them to put it on,
and I catched a glimpse of the heel-bottom, and it just took my breath away. You remember about
that puzzlesome little screwdriver?"

"You bet I do," says Tom, all excited.

"Well, when I catched that glimpse of that boot heel, the idea that went smashing through my
head was, I know where he's hid the di'monds! You look at this boot heel, now. See, it's bottomed
with a steel plate, and the plate is fastened on with little screws. Now there wasn't a screw
about that feller anywhere but in his boot heels; so, if he needed a screwdriver, I reckoned
I knowed why."

"Huck, ain't it bully!" says Tom.

"Well, I got my boots on, and we went down and slipped in and laid the paper of sugar on the
berth, and sat down soft and sheepish and went to listening to Bud Dixon snore. Hal Clayton
dropped off pretty soon, but I didn't; I wasn't ever so wide awake in my life. I was spying
out from under the shade of my hat brim, searching the floor for leather. It took me a long
time, and I begun to think maybe my guess was wrong, but at last I struck it. It laid over
by the bulkhead, and was nearly the color of the carpet. It was a little round plug about as
thick as the end of your little finger, and I says to myself there's a di'mond in the nest
you've come from. Before long I spied out the plug's mate.

"Think of the smartness and coolness of that blatherskite! He put up that scheme on us and
reasoned out what we would do, and we went ahead and done it perfectly exact, like a couple
of pudd'nheads. He set there and took his own time to unscrew his heelplates and cut out his
plugs and stick in the di'monds and screw on his plates again. He allowed we would steal the
bogus swag and wait all night for him to come up and get drownded, and by George it's just
what we done! I think it was powerful smart."

"You bet your life it was!" says Tom, just full of admiration.

CHAPTER IV. THE THREE SLEEPERS

WELL, all day we went through the humbug of watching one another, and it was pretty sickly
business for two of us and hard to act out, I can tell you. About night we landed at one of
them little Missouri towns high up toward Iowa, and had supper at the tavern, and got a room
upstairs with a cot and a double bed in it, but I dumped my bag under a deal table in the dark
hall while we was moving along it to bed, single file, me last, and the landlord in the lead
with a tallow candle. The first three quatrains evoke the fall of darkness; four stanzas follow
presenting the rude forefathers in their narrow graves; eleven quatrains follow in reproach
of Ambition, Grandeur, Pride, et al., for failure to realize the
high merit of humility.

Then after line 72 of the final version would come these four rejected stanzas, continuing
the reproach of "the thoughtless world," and turning all too briefly to one who could "their artless
tale relate," and to the calm that then breathes around tumultuous passion and speaks of eternal
peace--and "the silent tenor of thy doom."

That would give a simpler structure; and one may argue whether turning back from the thoughtless
world to praise again the "cool sequester'd vale of life" and then appending "the happy idea of
the hoary-headed swain, &c." does really improve the poem structurally.

Its method is, however, more acceptable in that now the reflections
are imbedded in "drama"

(or at least in narrative), and the total effect is more pleasing
to present-day readers since we escape, or seem to escape, from the
cool universality of humble life to a focus on an individual grief.

To end on a grim note of generalized "doom," would have given the
poem a temporary success such as it deserved; and it must be acknowledged
that the knell-like sound of "No more ... No more"

(lines 20, 21) echoed and re-echoed for decades through the imaginations of gloom-fed poets.
 They was just a shade large for me, but that was considerable
better than being too small. I got my bag as I went a-groping through the hall, and in about
a minute I was out the back way and stretching up the river road at a five-mile gait.

"And not feeling so very bad, neither--walking on di'monds don't have no such effect. When
I had gone fifteen minutes I says to myself, there's more'n a mile behind me, and everything
quiet. Another five minutes and I says there's considerable more land behind me now, and there's
a man back there that's begun to wonder what's the trouble. Another five and I says to myself
he's getting real uneasy--he's walking the floor now. Another five, and I says to myself, there's
two mile and a half behind me, and he's AWFUL uneasy--beginning to cuss, I reckon. Pretty soon
I says to myself, forty minutes gone--he KNOWS there's something up! Fifty minutes--the truth's
a-busting on him now! he is reckoning I found the di'monds whilst we was searching, and shoved
them in my pocket and never let on--yes, and he's starting out to hunt for me. He'll hunt for
new tracks in the dust, and they'll as likely send him down the river as up.

"Just then I see a man coming down on a mule, and before I thought I jumped into the bush.
It was stupid! When he got abreast he stopped and waited a little for me to come out; then
he rode on again. But I didn't feel gay any more. I says to myself I've botched my chances
by that; I surely have, if he meets up with Hal Clayton.

"Well, about three in the morning I fetched Elexandria and see this stern-wheeler laying there,
and was very glad, because I felt perfectly safe, now, you know. It was just daybreak. I went
aboard and got this stateroom and put on these clothes and went up in the pilot-house--to watch,
though I didn't reckon there was any need of it. I set there and played with my di'monds and
waited and waited for the boat to start, but she didn't. You see, they was mending her machinery,
but I didn't know anything about it, not being very much used to steamboats.

"Well, to cut the tale short, we never left there till plumb noon; and long before that I was
hid in this stateroom; for before breakfast I see a man coming, away off, that had a gait like
Hal Clayton's, and it made me just sick. I says to myself, if he finds out I'm aboard this
boat, he's got me like a rat in a trap. All he's got to do is to have me watched, and wait--wait
till I slip ashore, thinking he is a thousand miles away, then slip after me and dog me to
a good place and make me give up the di'monds, and then he'll--oh, I know what he'll do! Ain't
it awful--awful! And now to think the OTHER one's aboard, too! Oh, ain't it hard luck, boys--ain't
it hard! But you'll help save me, WON'T you?--oh, boys, be good to a poor devil that's being
hunted to death, and save me--I'll worship the very ground you walk on!"

We turned in and soothed him down and told him we would plan for him and help him, and he needn't
be so afeard; and so by and by he got to feeling kind of comfortable again, and unscrewed his
heelplates and held up his di'monds this way and that, admiring them and loving them; and when
the light struck into them they WAS beautiful, sure; why, they seemed to kind of bust, and
snap fire out all around. But all the same I judged he was a fool. If I had been him I would
a handed the di'monds to them pals and got them to go ashore and leave me alone. But he was
made different. He said it was a whole fortune and he couldn't bear the idea.

Twice we stopped to fix the machinery and laid a good while, once in the night; but it wasn't
dark enough, and he was afeard to skip. But the third time we had to fix it there was a better
chance. We laid up at a country woodyard about forty mile above Uncle Silas's place a little
after one at night, and it was thickening up and going to storm. So Jake he laid for a chance
to slide. We begun to take in wood. Pretty soon the rain come a-drenching down, and the wind
blowed hard. Of course every boat-hand fixed a gunny sack and put it on like a bonnet, the
way they do when they are toting wood, and we got one for Jake, and he slipped down aft with
his hand-bag and come tramping forrard just like the rest, and walked ashore with them, and
when we see him pass out of the light of the torch-basket and get swallowed up in the dark,
we got our breath again and just felt grateful and splendid. But it wasn't for long. Somebody
told, I reckon; for in about eight or ten minutes them two pals come tearing forrard as tight
as they could jump and darted ashore and was gone. We waited plumb till dawn for them to come
back, and kept hoping they would, but they never did. We was awful sorry and low-spirited.
All the hope we had was that Jake had got such a start that they couldn't get on his track,
and he would get to his brother's and hide there and be safe.

He was going to take the river road, and told us to find out if Brace and Jubiter was to home
and no strangers there, and then slip out about sundown and tell him. Said he would wait for
us in a little bunch of sycamores right back of Tom's uncle Silas's tobacker field on the river
road, a lonesome place.

We set and talked a long time about his chances, and Tom said he was all right if the pals
struck up the river instead of down, but it wasn't likely, because maybe they knowed where
he was from; more likely they would go right, and dog him all day, him not suspecting, and
kill him when it come dark, and take the boots. So we was pretty sorrowful.

CHAPTER V. A TRAGEDY IN THE WOODS

WE didn't get done tinkering the machinery till away late in the afternoon, and so it was so
close to sundown when we got home that we never stopped on our road, but made a break for the
sycamores as tight as we could go, to tell Jake what the delay was, and have him wait till
we could go to Brace's and find out how things was there. It was getting pretty dim by the
time we turned the corner of the woods, sweating and panting with that long run, and see the
sycamores thirty yards ahead of us; and just then we see a couple of men run into the bunch
and heard two or three terrible screams for help. "Poor Jake is killed, sure," we says. We
was scared through and through, and broke for the tobacker field and hid there, trembling so
our clothes would hardly stay on; and just as we skipped in there, a couple of men went tearing
by, and into the bunch they went, and in a second out jumps four men and took out up the road
as tight as they could go, two chasing two. 

The 1895 edition includes and expands on the original 1831 edition. Throughout this text, the
pagination of the original edition is indicated by brackets, such as [54].

Capitalization standards for the time (i.e. "fort Morgan," "mrs. Pindall," "Ohio river") have
been preserved.

Variable hyphenation has been preserved.

Typographical problems have
been corrected as listed in the Transcriber's Note at the end of the
text.

Passages in italics are indicated by underscores. All of a sudden Tom whispers:

"Look!--what's that?"

"Don't!" I says. "Don't take a person by surprise that way. I'm 'most ready to die, anyway,
without you doing that."

"Look, I tell you. It's something coming out of the sycamores."

"Don't, Tom!"

"It's terrible tall!"

"Oh, lordy-lordy! let's--"

"Keep still--it's a-coming this way."

He was so excited he could hardly get breath enough to whisper. I had to look. I couldn't help
it. So now we was both on our knees with our chins on a fence rail and gazing--yes, and gasping
too. It was coming down the road--coming in the shadder of the trees, and you couldn't see
it good; not till it was pretty close to us; then it stepped into a bright splotch of moonlight
and we sunk right down in our tracks--it was Jake Dunlap's ghost! That was what we said to
ourselves.

We couldn't stir for a minute or two; then it was gone. We talked about it in low voices. Tom says:

"They're mostly dim and smoky, or like they're made out of fog, but this one wasn't."

"No," I says; "I seen the goggles and the whiskers perfectly plain."

"Yes, and the very colors in them loud countrified Sunday clothes--plaid breeches, green and
black--"

"Cotton velvet westcot, fire-red and yaller squares--"

"Leather straps to the bottoms of the breeches legs and one of them hanging unbottoned--"

"Yes, and that hat--"

"What a hat for a ghost to wear!"

You see it was the first season anybody wore that kind--a black stiff-brim stove-pipe, very
high, and not smooth, with a round top--just like a sugar-loaf.

"Did you notice if its hair was the same, Huck?"

"No--seems to me I did, then again it seems to me I didn't."

"I didn't either; but it had its bag along, I noticed that."

"So did I. How can there be a ghost-bag, Tom?"

"Sho! I wouldn't be as ignorant as that if I was you, Huck Finn. Whatever a ghost has, turns
to ghost-stuff. They've got to have their things, like anybody else. You see, yourself, that
its clothes was turned to ghost-stuff. Well, then, what's to hender its bag from turning, too?
Of course it done it."

That was reasonable. I couldn't find no fault with it. Bill Withers and his brother Jack come
along by, talking, and Jack says:

"What do you reckon he was toting?"

"I dunno; but it was pretty heavy."

"Yes, all he could lug. Nigger stealing corn from old Parson Silas, I judged."

"So did I. And so I allowed I wouldn't let on to see him."

"That's me, too."

Then they both laughed, and went on out of hearing. It showed how unpopular old Uncle Silas
had got to be now. They wouldn't 'a' let a nigger steal anybody else's corn and never done
anything to him.

We heard some more voices mumbling along towards us and getting louder, and sometimes a cackle
of a laugh. It was Lem Beebe and Jim Lane. Jim Lane says:

"Who?--Jubiter Dunlap?"

"Yes."

"Oh, I don't know. I reckon so. I seen him spading up some ground along about an hour ago,
just before sundown--him and the parson. Said he guessed he wouldn't go to-night, but we could
have his dog if we wanted him."

"Too tired, I reckon."

"Yes--works so hard!"

"Oh, you bet!"

They cackled at that, and went on by. Tom said we better jump out and tag along after them,
because they was going our way and it wouldn't be comfortable to run across the ghost all by
ourselves. So we done it, and got home all right.

That night was the second of September--a Saturday. I sha'n't ever forget it. You'll see why,
pretty soon. 

The theme was not new before Gray made it peculiarly his own, and
it has become somewhat hackneyed in the last two hundred years; but
the fact that it is seldom unheard in any decade testifies to its
permanency of appeal, and the fact that it was "ne'er so well express'd"
as in the "Elegy" justifies our love for that poem.

George Sherburn Harvard University

A NOTE ON THE TEXTS

The first edition of the "Elegy" is here reproduced
from a copy in the William Andrews Clark Memorial Library. By George!"

"What's the matter?" says I.

