Captain Fisher commanded a battery in the army engaged in the conquest of New Mexico. His command
encamped near the base of the mountain which now bears his name. Deceived by the illusive effect
of the atmosphere, he started out for a morning stroll to the supposed near-by elevation, announcing
that he would return in time for breakfast. The day passed with no sign of Captain Fisher,
and night lengthened into a new day. When the second day passed without his return, his command
was forced to believe that he had fallen a prey to lurking Indians, and the soldiers were sadly
taking their seats for their evening meal when the haggard and wearied captain put in an appearance.
His morning stroll had occupied two days and a night; but he set out to visit the mountain,
and he did it.

The transcontinental line which supplanted the Old Salt Lake trail, and is now known as the
Union Pacific Railroad, antedated the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe by eleven years. The story
of the difficulties encountered, and the obstacles overcome in the building of this road, furnishes
greater marvels than any narrated in the Arabian Nights' Tales.

This railroad superseded the Pony Express line, the reeking, panting horses of which used their
utmost endeavor and carried their tireless riders fifteen miles an hour, covering their circuit
in eight days' time at their swiftest rate of speed. The iron horse gives a sniff of disdain,
and easily traverses the same distance, from the Missouri line to the Pacific Coast, in three days.

Travelers who step aboard the swiftly moving, luxurious cars of to-day give little thought
to their predecessors; for the dangers the early voyagers encountered they have no sympathy.
The traveler in the stagecoach was beset by perils without from the Indians and the outlaws;
he faced the equally unpleasant companionship of fatigue and discomfort within. The jolting,
swinging coach bounced and jounced the unhappy passengers as the reckless driver lashed the
flying horses. Away they galloped over mountains and through ravines, with no cessation of
speed. Even the shipper pays the low rate of transportation asked to-day with reluctance, and
forgets the great debt he owes this adjunct of our civilization.

But great as are the practical benefits derived from the railways, we cannot repress a sigh
as we meditate on the picturesque phases of the vanished era. Gone are the bullwhackers and
the prairie-schooners! Gone are the stagecoaches and their drivers! Gone are the Pony Express
riders! Gone are the trappers, the hardy pioneers, the explorers, and the scouts! Gone is the
prairie monarch, the shaggy, unkempt buffalo!

In 1869, only thirty years ago, the train on the Kansas Pacific-road was delayed eight hours
in consequence of the passage of an enormous herd of buffaloes over the track in front of it.
But the easy mode of travel introduced by the railroad brought hundreds of sportsmen to the
plains, who wantonly killed this noble animal solely for sport, and thousands of buffaloes
were sacrificed for their skins, for which there was a widespread demand. From 1868 to 1881,
in Kansas alone, there was paid out $2,500,000 for the bones of this animal, which were gathered
up on the prairie and used in the carbon works of the country. This represents a total death-rate
of 31,000,000 buffaloes in one state. As far as I am able to ascertain, there remains at this
writing only one herd, of less than twenty animals, out of all the countless thousands that
roamed the prairie so short a time ago, and this herd is carefully preserved in a private park.
There may be a few isolated specimens in menageries and shows, but this wholesale slaughter
has resulted in the practical extermination of the species.

