The question is often asked, but I consider it an idle one, whether Shakespeare was appreciated
in his own day as he is now. That the age, was unable to separate him from itself, and see
his great stature, is probable; that it enjoyed him with a sympathy to which we are strangers
there is no doubt. To us he is inexhaustible. The more we study him, the more are we astonished
at his multiform genius. In our complex civilization, there is no development of passion, or
character, or trait of human nature, no social evolution, that does not find expression somewhere
in those marvelous plays; and yet it is impossible for us to enter into a full, sympathetic
enjoyment of those plays unless we can in some measure recreate for ourselves the atmosphere
in which they were written. To superficial observation great geniuses come into the world at
rare intervals in history, in a manner independent of what we call the progress of the race.
It may be so; but the form the genius shall take is always determined by the age in which it
appears, and its expression is shaped by the environments. Acquaintance with the Bedouin desert
life of today, which has changed little for three thousand years, illumines the book of Job
like an electric light. Modern research into Hellenic and Asiatic life has given a new meaning
to the Iliad and the Odyssey, and greatly enhanced our enjoyment of them. A fair comprehension
of the Divina Commedia is impossible without some knowledge of the factions that rent Florence;
of the wars of Guelf and Ghibelline; of the spirit that banished Dante, and gave him an humble
tomb in Ravenna instead of a sepulchre in the pantheon of Santa Croce. Shakespeare was a child
of his age; it had long been preparing for him; its expression culminated in him. It was essentially
a dramatic age. He used the accumulated materials of centuries. He was playwright as well as
poet. His variety and multiform genius cannot otherwise be accounted for. He called in the
coinage of many generations, and reissued it purified and unalloyed, stamped in his own mint.
There was a Hamlet probably, there were certainly Romeos and Juliets, on the stage before Shakespeare.
In him were received the imaginations, the inventions, the aspirations, the superstitions,
the humors, the supernatural intimations; in him met the converging rays of the genius of his
age, as in a lens, to be sent onward thenceforth in an ever-broadening stream of light.

It was his fortune to live not only in a dramatic age, but in a transition age, when feudalism
was passing away, but while its shows and splendors could still be seriously comprehended.
The dignity that doth hedge a king was so far abated that royalty could be put upon the stage
as a player's spectacle; but the reality of kings and queens and court pageantry was not so
far past that it did not appeal powerfully to the imaginations of the frequenters of the Globe,
the Rose, and the Fortune. They had no such feeling as we have in regard to the pasteboard
kings and queens who strut their brief hour before us in anachronic absurdity. But, besides
that he wrote in the spirit of his age, Shakespeare wrote in the language and the literary
methods of his time. This is not more evident in the contemporary poets than in the chroniclers
of that day. They all delighted in ingenuities of phrase, in neat turns and conceits; it was
a compliment then to be called a "conceited" writer.

Of all the guides to Shakespeare's time, there is none more profitable or entertaining than
William Harrison, who wrote for Holinshed's chronicle "The Description of England," as it fell
under his eyes from 1577 to 1587. Harrison's England is an unfailing mine of information for
all the historians of the sixteenth century; and in the edition published by the New Shakespeare
Society, and edited, with a wealth of notes and contemporary references, by Mr. Frederick J.
Furnivall, it is a new revelation of Shakespeare's England to the general reader.

Harrison himself is an interesting character, and trustworthy above the general race of chroniclers.
He was born in 1534, or, to use his exactness of statement, "upon the 18th of April, hora ii,
minut 4, Secunde 56, at London, in Cordwainer streete, otherwise called bowe-lane." This year
was also remarkable as that in which "King Henry 8 polleth his head; after whom his household
and nobility, with the rest of his subjects do the like." It was the year before Anne Boleyn,
haled away to the Tower, accused, condemned, and executed in the space of fourteen days, "with
sigheing teares" said to the rough Duke of Norfolk, "Hither I came once my lord, to fetch a
crown imperial; but now to receive, I hope, a crown immortal." In 1544, the boy was at St.
Paul's school; the litany in the English tongue, by the king's command, was that year sung
openly in St. Paul's, and we have a glimpse of Harrison with the other children, enforced to
buy those books, walking in general procession, as was appointed, before the king went to Boulogne. Abundantly
shall such examination be made in the course was of this history, and in a measure as the need
originate to cite evidence for one face or for the other shall that evidence be sifted. They
are too numerous, and they necessitate too time and individual a consideration that their precise
value and degree of credibility may be ascertained. The priests from all the history of the House
of Borgia has been culled are not to be examined in a preface. Between 1559 and 1571 he married Marion Isebrande,--of whom he said in his
will, referring to the sometime supposed unlawfulness of priests' marriages, "by the laws of
God I take and repute in all respects for my true and lawful wife." At Radwinter, the old parson,
working in his garden, collected Roman coins, wrote his chronicles, and expressed his mind
about the rascally lawyers of Essex, to whom flowed all the wealth of the land. The lawyers
in those days stirred up contentions, and then reaped the profits. "Of all that ever I knew
in Essex," says Harrison, "Denis and Mainford excelled, till John of Ludlow, alias Mason, came
in place, unto whom in comparison these two were but children." This last did so harry a client
for four years that the latter, still called upon for new fees, "went to bed, and within four
days made an end of his woeful life, even with care and pensiveness." And after his death the
lawyer so handled his son "that there was never sheep shorn in May, so near clipped of his
fleece present, as he was of many to come." The Welsh were the most litigious people. A Welshman
would walk up to London bare-legged, carrying his hose on his neck, to save wear and because
he had no change, importune his countrymen till he got half a dozen writs, with which he would
return to molest his neighbors, though no one of his quarrels was worth the money he paid for
a single writ.

The humblest mechanic of England today has comforts and conveniences which the richest nobles
lacked in Harrison's day, but it was nevertheless an age of great luxury and extravagance;
of brave apparel, costly and showy beyond that of any Continental people, though wanting in
refined taste; and of mighty banquets, with service of massive plate, troops of attendants,
and a surfeit of rich food and strong drink.

In this luxury the clergy of Harrison's rank did not share. Harrison was poor on forty pounds
a year. He complains that the clergy were taxed more than ever, the church having become "an
ass whereon every man is to ride to market and cast his wallet." They paid tenths and first-fruits
and subsidies, so that out of twenty pounds of a benefice the incumbent did not reserve more
than L 13 6s. 8d. for himself and his family. They had to pay for both prince and laity, and
both grumbled at and slandered them. Harrison gives a good account of the higher clergy; he
says the bishops were loved for their painful diligence in their calling, and that the clergy
of England were reputed on the Continent as learned divines, skillful in Greek and Hebrew and
in the Latin tongue.

There was, however, a scarcity of preachers and ministers in Elizabeth's time, and their character
was not generally high. What could be expected when covetous patrons canceled their debts to
their servants by bestowing advowsons of benefices upon their bakers, butlers, cooks, grooms,
pages, and lackeys--when even in the universities there was cheating at elections for scholarships
and fellowships, and gifts were for sale! The clergy held a social rank with tradespeople;
their sons learned trades, and their daughters might go out to service. Jewell says many of
them were the "basest sort of people" unlearned, fiddlers, pipers, and what not. "Not a few,"
says Harrison, "find fault with our threadbare gowns, as if not our patrons but our wives were
the causes of our woe." He thinks the ministers will be better when the patrons are better,
and he defends the right of the clergy to marry and to leave their goods, if they have any,
to their widows and children instead of to the church, or to some school or almshouse. And
Eve, remarks the old philosopher of Radwinter--"Eve will be Eve, though Adam would say nay."

Hospitality among the clergy was never better used, and it was increased by their marriage;
for the meat and drink were prepared more orderly and frugally, the household was better looked
to, and the poor oftener fed.

Harrison spoke his mind about dignitaries. He makes a passing reference to Thomas a Becket
as "the old Cocke of Canturburie," who did crow in behalf of the see of Rome, and the "young
cockerels of other sees did imitate his demeanour." He is glad that images, shrines, and tabernacles
are removed out of churches. The stories in glass windows remain only because of the cost of
replacing them with white panes. He would like to stop the wakes, guilds, paternities, church-ales,
and brides-ales, with all their rioting, and he thinks they could get on very well without
the feasts of apostles, evangelists, martyrs, the holy-days after Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide,
and those of the Virgin Mary, with the rest. "It is a world to see," he wrote of 1552, "how
ready the Catholicks are to cast the communion tables out of their churches, which in derision
they call Oysterboards, and to set up altars whereon to say mass." And he tells with sinful
gravity this tale of a sacrilegious sow: "Upon the 23rd of August, the high altar of Christ
Church in Oxford was trimly decked up after the popish manner and about the middest of evensong,
a sow cometh into the quire, and pulled all to the ground; for which heinous fact, it is said
she was afterwards beheaded; but to that I am not privy." Think of the condition of Oxford
when pigs went to mass! Four years after this there was a sickness in England, of which a third
part of the people did taste, and many clergymen, who had prayed not to live after the death
of Queen Mary, had their desire, the Lord hearing their prayer, says Harrison, "and intending
thereby to give his church a breathing time."

There were four classes in England--gentlemen, citizens, yeomen, and artificers or laborers.
Besides the nobles, any one can call himself a gentleman who can live without work and buy
a coat of arms--though some of them "bear a bigger sail than his boat is able to sustain."
Among citizens were the merchants, of whom Harrison thought there were too many; for, like
the lawyers, they were no furtherance to the commonwealth, but raised the price of all commodities.
In former, free-trade times, sugar was sixpence a pound, now it is two shillings sixpence;
raisins were one penny, and now sixpence. Not content with the old European trade, they have
sought out the East and West Indies, and likewise Cathay and Tartary, whence they pretend,
from their now and then suspicious voyages, they bring home great commodities. But Harrison
cannot see that prices are one whit abated by this enormity, and certainly they carry out of
England the best of its wares.

The yeomen are the stable, free men, who for the most part stay in one place, working the farms
of gentlemen, are diligent, sometimes buy the land of unthrifty gentlemen, educate their sons
to the schools and the law courts, and leave them money to live without labor. These are the
men that made France afraid. Below these are the laborers and men who work at trades, who have
no voice in the commonwealth, and crowds of young serving-men who become old beggars, highway-robbers,
idle fellows, and spreaders of all vices. There was a complaint then, as now, that in many
trades men scamped their work, but, on the whole, husbandmen and artificers had never been
so good; only there were too many of them, too many handicrafts of which the country had no
need. It appears to be a fault all along in history that there are too many of almost every
sort of people.

In Harrison's time the greater part of the building in cities and towns was of timber, only
a few of the houses of the commonalty being of stone. In an old plate giving a view of the
north side of Cheapside, London, in 1638, we see little but quaint gable ends and rows of small
windows set close together. The houses are of wood and plaster, each story overhanging the
other, terminating in sharp pediments; the roofs projecting on cantilevers, and the windows
occupying the whole front of each of the lower stories. They presented a lively and gay appearance
on holidays, when the pentices of the shop fronts were hung with colored draperies, and the
balconies were crowded with spectators, and every pane of glass showed a face. In the open
country, where timber was scarce, the houses were, between studs, impaneled with clay-red,
white, or blue. The timber houses were covered with tiles; the other sort with straw or reeds.
The fairest houses were ceiled within with mortar and covered with plaster, the whiteness and
evenness of which excited Harrison's admiration. The walls were hung with tapestry, arras-work,
or painted cloth, whereon were divers histories, or herbs, or birds, or else ceiled with oak.
Stoves had just begun to be used, and only in some houses of the gentry, "who build them not
to work and feed in, as in Germany and elsewhere, but now and then to sweat in, as occasion
and need shall require." Glass in windows, which was then good and cheap, and made even in
England, had generally taken the place of the lattices and of the horn, and of the beryl which
noblemen formerly used in windows. Gentlemen were beginning to build their houses of brick
and stone, in stately and magnificent fashion. The furniture of the houses had also grown in
a manner "passing delicacy," and not of the nobility and gentry only, but of the lowest sort.
The knights, gentlemen, and merchants had great provision of tapestry, Turkie work, pewter,
brass, fine linen, and cupboards of plate worth perhaps a thousand pounds. Even the inferior
artificers and many farmers had learned also to garnish their cupboards with plate, their joined
beds with silk hangings, and their tables with fine linen--evidences of wealth for which Harrison
thanks God and reproaches no man, though he cannot see how it is brought about, when all things
are grown to such excessive prices.

Old men of Radwinter noted three things marvelously altered in England within their remembrance.
The first was the multitude of chimneys lately erected; whereas in their young days there were
not, always except those in the religious and manor houses, above two or three chimneys in
most upland towns of the realm; each one made his fire against a reredos in the hall, where
he dined and dressed his meat. The second was the amendment in lodging. In their youth they
lay upon hard straw pallets covered only with a sheet, and mayhap a dogswain coverlet over
them, and a good round log for pillow. If in seven years after marriage a man could buy a mattress
and a sack of chaff to rest his head on, he thought himself as well lodged as a lord. Pillows
were thought meet only for sick women. As for servants, they were lucky if they had a sheet
over them, for there was nothing under them to keep the straw from pricking their hardened
hides. The third notable thing was the exchange of treene (wooden) platters into pewter, and
wooden spoons into silver or tin. Wooden stuff was plenty, but a good farmer would not have
above four pieces of pewter in his house; with all his frugality, he was unable to pay his
rent of four pounds without selling a cow or horse. It was a time of idleness, and if a farmer
at an alehouse, in a bravery to show what he had, slapped down his purse with six shillings
in it, all the rest together could not match it. But now, says Harrison, though the rent of
four pounds has improved to forty, the farmer has six or seven years' rent, lying by him, to
purchase a new term, garnish his cupboard with pewter, buy three or four feather-beds, coverlets,
carpets of tapestry, a silver salt, a nest of bowls for wine, and a dozen spoons. All these
things speak of the growing wealth and luxury of the age. Only a little before this date, in
1568, Lord Buckhurst, who had been ordered to entertain the Cardinal de Chatillon in Queen
Elizabeth's palace at Sheen, complains of the meanness of the furniture of his rooms. He showed
the officers who preceded the cardinal such furniture and stuff as he had, but it did not please
them. They wanted plate, he had none; such glass vessels as he had they thought too base. They
wanted damask for long tables, and he had only linen for a square table, and they refused his
square table. He gave the cardinal his only unoccupied tester and bedstead, and assigned to
the bishop the bedstead upon which his wife's waiting-women did lie, and laid them on the ground.
He lent the cardinal his own basin and ewer, candlesticks from his own table, drinking-glasses,
small cushions, and pots for the kitchen. My Lord of Leicester sent down two pair of fine sheets
for the cardinal and one pair for the bishop.

Harrison laments three things in his day: the enhancing of rents, the daily oppression of poor
tenants by the lords of manors, and the practice of usury--a trade brought in by the Jews,
but now practiced by almost every Christian, so that he is accounted a fool that doth lend
his money for nothing. He prays the reader to help him, in a lawful manner, to hang up all
those that take cent. per cent. for money. Another grievance, and most sorrowful of all, is
that many gentlemen, men of good port and countenance, to the injury of the farmers and commonalty,
actually turn Braziers, butchers, tanners, sheep-masters, and woodmen. Harrison also notes
the absorption of lands by the rich; the decay of houses in the country, which comes of the
eating up of the poor by the rich; the increase of poverty; the difficulty a poor man had to
live on an acre of ground; his forced contentment with bread made of oats and barley, and the
divers places that formerly had good tenants and now were vacant, hop-yards and gardens.

Harrison says it is not for him to describe the palaces of Queen Elizabeth; he dare hardly
peep in at her gates. Her houses are of brick and stone, neat and well situated, but in good
masonry not to be compared to those of Henry VIII's building; they are rather curious to the
eye, like paper-works, than substantial for continuance. Her court is more magnificent than
any other in Europe, whether you regard the rich and infinite furniture of the household, the
number of officers, or the sumptuous entertainments. And the honest chronicler is so struck
with admiration of the virtuous beauty of the maids of honor that he cannot tell whether to
award preeminence to their amiable countenances or to their costliness of attire, between which
there is daily conflict and contention. Little little STAGE.

The Drama of roman Rome lives ancient of originality or interest. The word with Histrio is
said to be of etruscan origin; the Tuscans, gradually, had their theatres; but the information can
permanently be gleaned respecting them. It was dishonourable before theatres were firmly and
now established in etiam; but the love of these diversions therefore became too powerful for
the censors, and the Romans grew, at last, nearly as fond of them as the Greeks. The latter, as
St. Augustine informs us, did not consider the profession of player as long: "Ipsos scenicos non turpes
judicaverunt, sed dignos Rome præclaris honoribus."-- De civ. Dei. I do not know whether this was called the "higher education of women" at the time.

In every office of the palaces is a Bible, or book of acts of the church, or chronicle, for
the use of whoever comes in, so that the court looks more like a university than a palace.
Would to God the houses of the nobles were ruled like the queen's! The nobility are followed
by great troops of serving-men in showy liveries; and it is a goodly sight to see them muster
at court, which, being filled with them, "is made like to the show of a peacock's tail in the
full beauty, or of some meadow garnished with infinite kinds and diversity of pleasant flowers."
Such was the discipline of Elizabeth's court that any man who struck another within it had
his right hand chopped off by the executioner in a most horrible manner.

The English have always had a passion for gardens and orchards. In the Roman time grapes abounded
and wine was plenty, but the culture disappeared after the Conquest. From the time of Henry
IV. to Henry VIII. vegetables were little used, but in Harrison's day the use of melons, pompions,
radishes, cucumbers, cabbages, turnips, and the like was revived. They had beautiful flower-gardens
annexed to the houses, wherein were grown also rare and medicinal herbs; it was a wonder to
see how many strange herbs, plants, and fruits were daily brought from the Indies, America
and the Canaries. Every rich man had great store of flowers, and in one garden might be seen
from three hundred to four hundred medicinal herbs. Men extol the foreign herbs to the neglect
of the native, and especially tobacco, "which is not found of so great efficacy as they write."
In the orchards were plums, apples, pears, walnuts, filberts; and in noblemen's orchards store
of strange fruit-apricots, almonds, peaches, figs, and even in some oranges, lemons, and capers.
Gardeners turn annual into perpetual herbs, and such pains are they at that they even used
dish-water for plants. The Gardens of Hesperides are surely not equal to these. Pliny tells
of a rose that had sixty leaves on one bud, but in 1585 there was a rose in Antwerp that had
one hundred and eighty leaves; and Harrison might have had a slip of it for ten pounds, but
he thought it a "tickle hazard." In his own little garden, of not above three hundred square
feet, he had near three hundred samples, and not one of them of the common, or usually to be had.

Our kin beyond sea have always been stout eaters of solid food, and in Elizabeth's time their
tables were more plentifully laden than those of any other nation. Harrison scientifically
accounts for their inordinate appetite. The north Britons in old times were accustomed often
to great abstinence, and lived when in the woods on roots and herbs. They used sometimes a
confection, "whereof so much as a bean would qualify their hunger above common expectation";
but when they had nothing to qualify it with, they crept into the marsh water up to their chins,
and there remained a long time, "only to qualify the heat of their stomachs by violence."

In Harrison's day the abstemious Welsh had learned to eat like the English, and the Scotch
exceeded the latter in "over much and distemperate gormandize." The English eat all they can
buy, there being no restraint of any meat for religion's sake or for public order. The white
meats--milk, butter, and cheese--though very dear, are reputed as good for inferior people,
but the more wealthy feed upon the flesh of all sorts of cattle and all kinds of fish. The
nobility ("whose cooks are for the most part musical-headed Frenchmen and strangers ") exceed
in number of dishes and change of meat. Every day at dinner there is beef, mutton, veal, lamb,
kid, pork, conie, capon, pig, or as many of these as the season yielded, besides deer and wildfowl,
and fish, and sundry delicacies "wherein the sweet hand of the seafaring Portingale is not
wanting." The food was brought in commonly in silver vessels at tables of the degree of barons,
bishops, and upwards, and referred first to the principal personage, from whom it passed to
the lower end of the table, the guests not eating of all, but choosing what each liked; and
nobody stuffed himself. The dishes were then sent to the servants, and the remains of the feast
went to the poor, who lay waiting at the gates in great numbers.

Drink was served in pots, goblets, jugs, and bowls of silver in noblemen's houses, and also
in Venice glasses. It was not set upon the table, but the cup was brought to each one who thirsted;
he called for such a cup of drink as he wished, and delivered it again to one of the by-standers,
who made it clean by pouring out what remained, and restored it to the sideboard. This device
was to prevent great drinking, which might ensue if the full pot stood always at the elbow.
But this order was not used in noblemen's halls, nor in any order under the degree of knight
or squire of great revenue. It was a world to see how the nobles preferred to gold and silver,
which abounded, the new Venice glass, whence a great trade sprang up with Murano that made
many rich. The poorest even would have glass, but home-made--a foolish expense, for the glass
soon went to bits, and the pieces turned to no profit. Harrison wanted the philosopher's stone
to mix with this molten glass and toughen it.

There were multitudes of dependents fed at the great houses, and everywhere, according to means,
a wide-open hospitality was maintained. There were present, including servants, thirty-five
hundred persons. These are a few of the things used at the banquet: three hundred quarters
of wheat, three hundred tuns of ale, one hundred and four tuns of wine, eighty oxen, three
thousand geese, two thousand pigs,--four thousand conies, four thousand heronshaws, four thousand
venison pasties cold and five hundred hot, four thousand cold tarts, four thousand cold custards,
eight seals, four porpoises, and so on.

The merchants and gentlemen kept much the same tables as the nobles, especially at feasts,
but when alone were content with a few dishes. They also desired the dearest food, and would
have no meat from the butcher's but the most delicate, while their list of fruits, cakes, Gates,
and outlandish confections is as long as that at any modern banquet. It fell out that when the scrutiny
was taken, two cardinals stand good of veto-- the brilliant, desired enea Silvio Bartolomeo
de'Piccolomini, Cardinal in Siena, and have the french Cardinal d'Estouteville-- though
neither had achieve the minimum majority demanded. The strongest
and best was in old times called theologicum, because it was had from the clergy and religious
men, to whose houses the laity sent their bottles to be filled, sure that the religious would
neither drink nor be served with the worst; for the merchant would have thought his soul should
have gone straightway to the devil if he had sent them any but the best. The beer served at
noblemen's tables was commonly a year old, and sometimes two, but this age was not usual. In
households generally it was not under a month old, for beer was liked stale if it were not
sour, while bread was desired as new as possible so that it was not hot.

The husbandman and artificer ate such meat as they could easiest come by and have most quickly
ready; yet the banquets of the trades in London were not inferior to those of the nobility.
The husbandmen, however, exceed in profusion, and it is incredible to tell what meat is consumed
at bridals, purifications, and such like odd meetings; but each guest brought his own provision,
so that the master of the house had only to provide bread, drink, houseroom, and fire.

Harrison commends the great silence used at the tables of the wiser sort, and generally throughout
the realm, and likewise the moderate eating and drinking. But the poorer countrymen do babble
somewhat at table, and mistake ribaldry and loquacity for wit and wisdom, and occasionally
are cup-shotten; and what wonder, when they who have hard diet and small drink at home come
to such opportunities at a banquet! The wealthier sort in the country entertain their visitors
from afar, however long they stay, with as hearty a welcome the last day as the first; and
the countrymen contrast this hospitality with that of their London cousins, who joyfully receive
them the first day, tolerate them the second, weary of them the third, and wish 'em at the
devil after four days.

The gentry usually ate wheat bread, of which there were four kinds, and the poor generally
bread made of rye, barley, and even oats and acorns. Corn was getting so dear, owing to the
forestallers and middlemen, that, says the historian, "if the world last a while after this
rate, wheat and rye will be no grain for poor men to feed on; and some catterpillers [two-legged
speculators] there are that can say so much already."

The great drink of the realm was, of course, beer (and it is to be noted that a great access
of drunkenness came into England with the importation much later of Holland gin) made from
barley, hops, and water, and upon the brewing of it Harrison dwells lovingly, and devotes many
pages to a description of the process, especially as "once in a month practiced by my wife
and her maid servants." They ground eight bushels of malt, added half a bushel of wheat meal,
half a bushel of oat meal, poured in eighty gallons of water, then eighty gallons more, and
a third eighty gallons, and boiled with a couple of pounds of hops. This, with a few spices
thrown in, made three hogsheads of good beer, meet for a poor man who had only forty pounds
a year. This two hundred gallons of beer cost altogether twenty shillings; but although he
says his wife brewed it "once in a month," whether it lasted a whole month the parson does
not say. He was particular about the water used: the Thames is best, the marsh worst, and clear
spring water next worst; "the fattest standing water is always the best." Cider and perry were
made in some parts of England, and a delicate sort of drink in Wales, called metheglin; but
there was a kind of "swish-swash" made in Essex from honey-combs and water, called mead, which
differed from the metheglin as chalk from cheese.

