Second. Again; you know that the laws being given forth by the king, which if a man keep and
obey for a long time, yet if at the last he slips and breaks those laws, he is presently apprehended,
and condemned by that law. These things are clear as touching the Law of God, as it is a Covenant
of Works. If a man doth fulfill nine of the Commandments, and yet breaketh but one, that being
broken will as surely destroy him and shut him out from the joys of Heaven as if he had actually
transgressed against them all; for indeed, in effect, so he hath. There is a notable Scripture
for this in the Epistle of James, Second Chapter, at the tenth verse, that runs thus:--"For
whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all,"--that
is, he hath in effect broken them all, and shall have the voice of them all cry out against
him. And it must needs be so, saith James, because "He that said," or that law which said,
"Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now, if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou
kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law" (Verse 11). As thus; it may be thou didst
never make to thyself a god of stone or wood, or at least not to worship them so greatly and
so openly as the heathen do, yet if thou hast stolen, born false witness, or lusted after a
woman in thy heart (Matt 5:28) thou hast transgressed the law, and must for certain, living
and dying under that covenant, perish for ever by the law; for the law hath resolved on that
before-hand, saying, "Cursed is every one that continueth not in ALL things"; mark, I pray
you, "in all things"; that is the Word, and that seals the doctrine.

Third. Again; though a man doth not covet, steal, murder, worship gods of wood and stone, etc.,
yet if he do take the Lord's name in vain, he is for ever gone, living and dying under that
covenant. "Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain"; there is the command.
But how if we do? Then he saith, "the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh His name
in vain." No; though thou live as holy as ever thou canst, and walk as circumspectly as ever
any did, yet if thou dost take the Lord's name in vain, thou art gone by that covenant: "For
I will not," mark "I will not," let him be in never so much danger, "I will not hold him guiltless
that taketh My name in vain" (Exo 20:7). And so likewise for any other of the ten, do but break
them, and thy state is irrecoverable, if thou live and die under that covenant.

Fourth. Though thou shouldest fulfill this covenant, or law, even all of it, for a long time,
ten, twenty, forty, fifty, or threescore years, yet if thou do chance to slip and break one
of them but once before thou die, thou art also gone and lost by that covenant; for mark, "Cursed
is every one that continueth not in all things," that continueth not in ALL things, mark that,
"which are written in the book of the law to do them." But if a man doth keep all the Law of
God his whole lifetime, and only sin one time before he dies, that one sin is a breach of the
law, and he hath not continued in doing the things contained therein. For, so to continue,
according to the sense of this Scripture, is to hold on without any failing, either in thought,
word, or deed; therefore, I say, though a man doth walk up to the law all his lifetime, but
only at the very last sin one time before he die, he is sure to perish for ever, dying under
that covenant. By T. H. MORTON. 1 figure.--Section of sensitive plate after exposure and during
development
Gelatine Transparencies for the Lantern
An Integrating Machine.

By C. V. BOYS.--1 figure
Modifying the Wheatstone's Microphone and its Applicability to Radiophonic Researches. By ALEX.
GRAHAM BELL,--2 figures
IV. ARCHITECTURE.--Suggestions, 1 figure.--A pair of English cottages. By A. CAWSTON
* * * * *
ALCOHOL IN NATURE--ITS PRESENCE IN THE EARTH, WATER, AND ATMOSPHERE.
Mr. A. Muentz,a chemist known for labors and analytical researchers, discoveries. From the given
information of Mr.Muentz about arable soil, ocean waters, streams and atmosphere contain alcohol
traces; and that this compound, formed by the fermentation of organic matters, is everywhere
distributed throughout nature. By testing and analysing tiny quatities large quantities can be known.
The result must be well designed and accurate.  [Footnote 1: The drawings has been made from
the apparatus at Argonomic Institute laboratroy by the Director, Mr.Muentz.]
Procedure:-
Three or four gallons of distilled snow, rain, or sea water is poured
in apparatus shown in Fig.1. The distilled liquid is poured to boiler,
looks like a milk-can, B. By heating, the vapors pass through the
thirty-three feet length leaden tube, which was inclosed with a refrigerating
cylinder,T, it is kept cold by passing water. Finally condensed in
a glass flask,R, which acts as a receiver. "The thought of foolishness is sin" (Prov 24:9).

Sixth. Again; the law is of that nature and severity, that it doth not only inquire into the
generality of thy life as touching several things, whether thou art upright there or no; but
the law doth also follow thee into all thy holy duties, and watcheth over thee there, to see
whether thou dost do all things aright there--that is to say, whether when thou dost pray thy
heart hath no wandering thoughts in it; whether thou do every holy duty thou doest perfectly
without the least mixture of sin; and if it do find thee to slip, or in the least measure to
fail in any holy duty that thou dost perform, the law taketh hold on that, and findeth fault
with that, so as to render all the holy duties that ever thou didst unavailable because of
that. I say, if, when thou art a hearing, there is but one vain thought, or in praying, but
one vain thought, or in any other thing whatsoever, let it be civil or spiritual, one vain
thought once in all thy lifetime will cause the law to take such hold on it, that for that
one thing it doth even set open all the floodgates of God's wrath against thee, and irrecoverably
by that covenant it doth bring eternal vengeance upon thee; so that, I say, look which ways
thou wilt, and fail wherein thou wilt, and do it as seldom as ever thou canst, either in civil
or spiritual things, as aforesaid--that is, either in the service of God, or in thy employments
in the world, as thy trade or calling, either in buying or selling any way, in anything whatsoever;
I say, if in any particular it find thee tardy, or in the least measure guilty, it calleth
thee an offender, it accuseth thee to God, it puts a stop to all the promises thereof that
are joined to the law, and leaves thee there as a cursed transgressor against God, and a destroyer
of thy own soul. 5

Here I would have thee, by the way, for to take notice, that it is not my intent at this time
to enlarge on the several commands in particular--for that would be very tedious both for me
to write and thee to read; only thus much I would have thee to do at the reading hereof--make
a pause, and sit still one quarter of an hour, and muse a little in thy mind thus with thyself,
and say, Did I ever break the law; yea or no? Had I ever, in all my lifetime, one sinful thought
passed through my heart since I was born; yea or no? And if thou findest thyself guilty, as
I am sure thou canst not otherwise choose but do, unless thou shut thy eyes against thy every
day's practice, then, I say, conclude thyself guilty of the breach of the first covenant. And
when that this is done, be sure, in the next place, thou do not straightway forget it and put
it out of thy mind, that thou art condemned by the same covenant; and then do not content thyself
until thou do find that God hath sent thee a pardon from Heaven through the merits of our Lord
Jesus Christ, the mediator of the second covenant. And if God shall but give thee a heart to
take this my counsel, I do make no question but these words spoken by me, will prove an instrument
for the directing of thy heart to the right remedy for the salvation of thy soul.

Thus much now touching the law, and the severity of it upon the person that is found under
it, having offended or broken any particular of it, either in thought, word, or action; and
now, before I do proceed to the next thing, I shall answer four objections that do lie in my
way, and also, such as do stumble most part of the world.

[Four Objections.]

Object. First. But you will say, Methinks you speak very harsh; it is enough to daunt a body.
Set the case, therefore, that a man, after he hath sinned and broken the law, repenteth of
his wickedness and promiseth to do so no more, will not God have mercy then, and save a poor
sinner then?

Answ. I told you before, that the covenant, once broken, will execute upon the offender that
which it doth threaten to lay upon him; and as for your supposing that your repenting and promising
to do so no more may help well, and put you in a condition to attain the mercy of God by the
law, these thoughts do flow from gross ignorance both of the nature of sin, and also of the
nature of the justice of God. And if I were to give you a description of one in a lost condition
for the present, I would brand him out with such a mark of ignorance as this is.

Answ. 2. [The first answer is expounded by the second]. The law, as it is a Covenant of Works,
doth not allow of any repentance unto life to those that live and die under it; for the law
being once broken by thee, never speaks good unto thee, neither doth God at all regard thee,
if thou be under that covenant, notwithstanding all thy repenting and also promises to do so
no more. No, saith the law, thou hast sinned, therefore I must curse thee; for it is My nature
to curse, even, and nothing else but curse, every one that doth in any point transgress against
Me (Gal 3:10). They brake My covenant "and I regarded them not, saith the Lord" (Heb 8:9).
Let them cry, I will not regard them; let them repent, I will not regard them; they have broken
My covenant, and done that in which I delighted not; therefore, by that covenant I do curse,
and not bless; damn, and not save; frown, and not smile; reject, and not embrace; charge sin
and not forgive it. They brake My covenant "and I regarded them not"; so that I say, if thou
break the law, the first covenant, and thou being found there, God looking on thee through
that, He hath no regard on thee, no pity for thee, no delight in thee.

Object. Second. But hath not the law promises as well as threatenings? saying, "The man which
doeth these things shall live," mark, he shall live, "by them," or in them (Rom 10:5; Gal 3:12).

Answ. 1. To break the Commandments is not to keep or fulfill the same; but thou hast broken
them, therefore the promise doth not belong to thee by that covenant. 2. The promises that
are of the law are conditional, and so not performed unless there be a full and continual obedience
to every particular of it, and that without the least sin. "Do this"--mark, do this--and afterwards
thou shalt live; but if thou break one point of it once in all thy life, thou hast not done
the law; therefore the promises following the law do not belong unto thee if one sin hath been
committed by thee. As thus, I will give you a plain instance--"Set the case, there be a law
made by the king, that if any man speak a word against him he must be put to death, and this
must not be revoked, but must for certain be executed on the offender; though there be a promise
made to them that do not speak a word against him, that they should have great love from him;
yet this promise is nothing to the offender; he is like to have no share in it, or to be ever
the better for it; but contrariwise, the law that he hath offended must be executed on him;
for his sin shutteth him out from a share of, or in, the promises." So it is here, there is
a promise made indeed, but to whom? Why, it is to none but those that live without sinning
against the law; but if thou, I say, sin one time against it in all thy lifetime, thou art
gone, and not one promise belongs to thee if thou continue under this covenant. Methinks the
prisoners at the bar, having offended the law, and the charge of a just judge towards them,
do much hold forth the law, as it is a Covenant of Works, and how it deals with them that are
under it. The prisoner having offended, cries out for mercy; Good, my lord, mercy, saith he,
pray, my lord, pity me. The judge saith, What canst thou say for thyself that sentence of death
should not be passed upon thee? Why, nothing but this, I pray my lord be merciful. Sweet-One-Darling
said to him, "I think it seems to be as big as a house."
"No, larger than a house," replied Gleam-o'-the-Murk. 

"Oh dear!"
said Sweet-One-Darling, as she started to feel that the Dream-Fairies
were tricking her. The judge, notwithstanding the man's outcries
and sad condition, must, according to the tenor of the law, pass judgment upon him, and the
sentence of condemnation must be read to the prisoner, though it makes him fall down dead to
hear it, if he executes the law as he ought to do. And just thus it is concerning the Law of God.

Object. Third. Ay, but sometimes, for all your haste, the judge doth also give some pardons,
and forgives some offenders, notwithstanding their offences, though he be a judge.

Answ. It is not because the law is merciful, but because there is manifested the love of the
judge, not the love of the law. I beseech you to mark this distinction; for if a man that hath
deserved death by the law be, notwithstanding this, forgiven his offence, it is not because
the law saith, "spare him"; but it is the love of the judge or chief magistrate that doth set
the man free from the condemnation of the law. But mark; here the law of men and the Law of
God do differ; the law of man is not so irrevocable; but if the Supreme please he may sometimes
grant a pardon without satisfaction given for the offence; but the Law of God is of this nature,
that if a man be found under it, and a transgressor, or one that hath transgressed against
it, before that prisoner can be released there must be a full and complete satisfaction given
to it, either by the man's own life or by the blood of some other man; for "without shedding
of blood is no remission" (Heb 9:22); that is, there is no deliverance from under the curse
of the Law of God; and therefore, however the law of man may be made of none effect sometimes
by showing mercy without giving of a full satisfaction, yet the Law of God cannot be so contented,
nor at the least give way, that the person offending that should escape the curse and not be
damned, except some one do give a full and complete satisfaction to it for him, and bring the
prisoner into another covenant--to wit, the Covenant of Grace, which is more easy, and soul-refreshing,
and sin-pardoning.

I say, therefore, you must understand that if there be a law made that reaches the life, to
take it away for the offence given by the offender against it, then it is clear that if the
man be spared and saved, it is not the law that doth give the man this advantage, but it is
the mere mercy of the king, either because he hath a ransom or satisfaction some other way,
or being provoked thereto out of his own love to the person whom he saveth. Now, thou also
having transgressed and broken the Law of God, if the law be not executed upon thee, it is
not because the law is merciful, or can pass by the least offence done by thee, but thy deliverance
comes another way; therefore, I say, however it be by the laws of men where they be corrupted
and perverted, yet the Law of God is of that nature, that if it hath not thy own blood or the
blood of some other man--for it calls for no less, for to ransom thee from the curse of it,
being due to thee for thy transgression, and to satisfy the cries, the doleful cries, thereof,
and ever for to present thee pure and spotless before God, notwithstanding this fiery law--thou
art gone if thou hadst a thousand souls; for "without shedding of blood there is no remission"
(Heb 9:22); no forgiveness of the least sin against the law.

Object. Fourth. But, you will say, "I do not only repent me of my former life, and also promise
to do so no more, but now I do labour to be righteous, and to live a holy life; and now, instead
of being a breaker of the law, I do labour to fulfill the same. What say you to that?"

Answ. Set the case, thou couldst walk like an angel of God; set the case, thou couldst fulfill
the whole law, and live from this day to thy life's end without sinning in thought, word, or
deed, which is impossible; but, I say, set the case it should be so, why, thy state is as bad,
if thou be under the first covenant, as ever it was. For, first, I know thou darest not say
but thou hast at one time or other sinned; and if so, then the law hath condemned thee; and
if so, then I am sure that thou, with all thy actions and works of righteousness, canst not
remove the dreadful and irresistible curse that is already laid upon thee by that law which
thou art under, and which thou hast sinned against; though thou livest the holiest life that
any man can live in this world, being under the law of works, and so not under the Covenant
of Grace, thou must be cut off without remedy; for thou hast sinned, though afterwards thou
live never so well.

The reasons for this that hath been spoken are these--

First, The nature of God's justice calls for it--that is, it calls for irrecoverable ruin on
them that transgress against this law; for justice gave it, and justice looks to have it completely
and continually obeyed, or else justice is resolved to take place, and execute its office,
which is to punish the transgressor against it. You must understand that the justice of God
is as unchangeable as His love; His justice cannot change its nature; justice it is, if it
be pleased; and justice it is, if it be displeased. The justice of God in this case may be
compared to fire; there is a great fire made in some place; if thou do keep out of it, it is
fire; if thou do fall into it, thou wilt find it fire; and therefore the Apostle useth this
as an argument to stir up the Hebrews to stick close to Jesus Christ, lest they fall under
the justice of God by these words, "For our God is a consuming fire" (Heb 12:29); into which,
if thou fall, it is not for thee to get out again, as it is with some that fall into a material
fire; no, but he that falls into this, he must lie there for ever; as it is clear where he
saith, "Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings, and with devouring fire?" (Isa
33:14). For justice once offended knoweth not how to show any pity or compassion to the offender,
but runs on him like a lion, takes him by the throat, throws him into prison, and there he
is sure to lie, and that to all eternity, unless infinite satisfaction be given to it, which
is impossible to be given by any of us the sons of Adam.

Secondly, The faithfulness of God calls for irrecoverable ruin to be poured out on those that
shall live and die under this covenant. If thou, having sinned but one sin against this covenant,
and shouldst afterwards escape damning, God must be unfaithful to Himself and to His Word,
which both agree as one. First, he would be unfaithful to Himself; to Himself, that is, to
His justice, holiness, righteousness, wisdom, and power, if He should offer to stop the running
out of His justice for the damning of them that have offended it. And secondly, He would be
unfaithful to His Word, His written Word, and disown, deny, and break that, of which He hath
said, "It is easier for Heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail," or be
made of none effect (Luke 16:17). Now, if He should not, according to His certain declarations
therein, take vengeance on those that fall and die within the threat and sad curses denounced,
in that His Word could not be fulfilled.

Thirdly, Because otherwise he would disown the sayings of His Prophets, and gratify the sayings
of His enemies; His Prophets say He will take vengeance; His enemies say He will not; His Prophets
say He will remember their iniquities, and recompense them into their bosom; but His enemies
say they should do well, and they shall have peace, though they walk after the imaginations
of their own hearts, and be not so strict as the Word commands, and do not as it saith (Deu
29:19,20). But let me tell thee, hadst thou a thousand souls, and each of them was worth a
thousand worlds, God would set them all on a light by fire, if they fall within the condemnings
of His Word, and thou die without a Jesus, even the right Jesus; "for the Scriptures cannot
be broken." What! dost thou think that God, Christ, Prophets, and Scriptures, will all lie
for thee? and falsify their words for thee? It will be but ill venturing thy soul upon that.

And the reasons for it are these:--First, Because God is God; and secondly, Because man is man.

First, Because God is perfectly just and eternally just, perfectly holy and eternally holy,
perfectly faithful and eternally faithful; that is, without any variableness or shadow of turning,
but perfectly continueth the same, and cannot as well cease to be God as to alter or change
the nature of His Godhead. As He is thus the perfection of all perfections, He gave out His
Law to be obeyed; but if any offend it, then they fall into the hands of this His eternal justice,
and so must drink of His irrevocable wrath, which is the execution of the same justice. I say,
this being thus, the law being broken, justice takes place, and so faithfulness followeth to
see that execution be done, and also to testify that He is true, and doth denounce His unspeakable,
insupportable, and unchangeable vengeance on the party offending.

Secondly, Because thou art not as infinite as God, but a poor created weed, that is here today
and gone tomorrow, and not able to answer God in His essence, being, and attributes; thou art
bound to fall under Him, for thy soul or body can do nothing that is infinite in such a way
as to satisfy this God, which is an infinite God in all His attributes.

[Misery of man by this law.]

But to declare unto you the misery of man by this law to purpose, I do beseech you to take
notice of these following particulars, besides what has been already spoken:--First, I shall
show the danger of them by reason of the law, as they come from Adam; Second, as they are in
their own persons particularly under it.

[First, The danger of them by reason of the law, as they come from Adam.]

1. As they come from Adam, they are in a sad condition, because he left them a broken covenant.
Or take it thus: because they, while they were in him, did with him break that covenant. O!
this was the treasure that Adam left to his posterity; it was a broken covenant, insomuch that
death reigned over all his children, and doth still to this day, as they come from him, both
natural and eternal death (Rom 5). It may be, drunkard, swearer, liar, thief, thou dost not
think of this.

2. He did not only leave them a broken covenant, but also made them himself sinners against
it. He [Adam] made them sinners--"By one man's disobedience many were made sinners" (Rom 5:19).
And this is worse than the first.

3. Not only so, but he did deprive them of their strength, by which at first they were enabled
to stand, and left them no more than dead men. O helpless state! O how beggarly and miserable
are the sons of Adam!

4. Not only so, but also before he left them he was the conduit pipe through which the devil
did convey off his poisoned spawn and venom nature into the hearts of Adam's sons and daughters,
by which they are at this day so strongly and so violently carried away, that they fly as fast
to Hell, and the devil, by reason of sin, as chaff before a mighty wind.

5. In a word, Adam led them out of their paradise, that is one more; and put out their eyes,
that is another; and left them to the leading of the devil. O sad! Canst thou hear this, and
not have thy ears to tingle and burn on thy head? Canst thou read this, and not feel thy conscience
begin to throb and dag? If so, surely it is because thou art either possessed with the devil,
or besides thyself.

[Second.] But I pass this, and come to the second thing, which is, the cause of their being
in a sad condition, which is by reason of their being in their particular persons under it.

1. Therefore, they that are under the law, they are in a sad condition, because they are under
that which is more ready, through our infirmity, to curse than to bless; they are under that
called the ministration of condemnation, that is, they are under that dispensation, or administration,
whose proper work is to curse and condemn, and nothing else (2 Cor 3). 

Never has there been a demonstration of sacred greatness in adjusting our race that has achieved more.
This demonstration has created a family assortment where the sweetest gestures are greatly remembered
and the negative usually put to rest.


3. They are in a sad condition, because that administration they are under that are under the
law doth always find fault with the sinner's obedience as well as his disobedience, if it be
not done in a right spirit, which they that are under that covenant cannot do, by reason of
their being destitute of faith; therefore, I say, it doth control them, saying, "This was not
well done, this was done by the halves, this was not done freely, and that was not done perfectly,
and out of love to God." Start at the suture. Begin the maxillary, going with the premaxillary
lateral to the naris. Then continue posteriorly, leaving a border of approximately 1.2 mm. Anterior
to the lateral projection of the pterygoid, it tapers to a 2.0 mm point. The posterior end is
broken, and the width is approximately 0.80 mm. It is probably complete when it approached the
pterygoid, and either had a ligamentous connection with it or met
the latter.

 They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because they are under that administration
that will never be contented with what is done by the sinner. If thou be under this covenant,
work as hard as thou canst, the law will never say, "Well done"; never say, "My good servant";
no; but always it will be driving thee faster, hastening of thee harder, giving thee fresh
commands, which thou must do, and upon pain of damnation not to be left undone. Nay, it is
such a master that will curse thee, not only for thy sins, but also because thy good works
were not so well done as they ought to be.

5. They that are under this covenant or law, their state is very sad, because this law doth
command impossible things of him that is under it; and yet doth but right in it, seeing man
at the first had in Adam strength to stand, if he would have used it, and the law was given
them, as I said before, when man was in his full strength; and therefore no inequality if it
commands the same still, seeing God that gave thee strength did not take it away. I will give
you a similitude for the clearing of it. Set the case that I give to my servant ten pounds,
with this charge, Lay it out for my best advantage, that I may have my own again with profit;
now if my servant, contrary to my command, goeth and spends my money in a disobedient way,
is it any inequality in me to demand of my servant what I gave him at first? Nay, and though
he have nothing to pay, I may lawfully cast him into prison, and keep him there until I have
satisfaction. This book titled Mademoiselle Mori: A Tale of Modern Rome, is a magnficent novel.
The plot is well developed and interesting. The book describes an individual who is accustomed to
the culture of Rome. This individual deeply regards the hearts of
the Romans, and gives great consideration to their character. It is
a tale of her observations of the city Rome and the Romans.

But if any should object, and say, But the law doth not command impossible things of natural man,--

I should answer in this case as the Apostle did in another very much like unto it, saying,
"Understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm." For doth not the law command
thee to love the Lord thy God with all thy soul, with all they strength, with all thy might,
etc., and can the natural man do this? How can those that are accustomed to do evil, do that
which is commanded in this particular? "Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his
spots?" (Jer 12:23).

Doth the law command thee to do good, and nothing but good, and that with all thy soul, heart,
and delight? which the law as a Covenant of Works calleth for; and canst thou, being carnal,
do that? But there is no man that hath understanding, if he should hear thee say so, but would
say that thou wast either bewitched or stark mad.

6. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because that though they follow the
law, or Covenant of Works; I say, though they follow it, it will not lead them to Heaven; no,
but contrariwise, it will lead them under the curse. It is not possible, saith Paul, that any
should be justified by the law, or by our following of it; for by that "is the knowledge of
sin," and by it we are condemned for the same, which is far from leading us to life, being
the ministration of death (2 Cor 3). And again; "Israel, which followeth after the law of righteousness,
hath not attained to the law of righteousness. End-to-end the text by al-Tasrif al-Zahrawi applied
measured aid to the grandness by pharmeceutic cookeries inwards the
alterative graphics, admitting casings asking operation.

[1] George Sarton, Creation to the Account by skill, Baltimore,
1927, vol. His appeal to writers who possess "the artistic conscience" as "the martyr of literary style
is very profound. In morals something of a libertine, and in art he showed that he does not tolerate
weakness in others and the self examination and self torment without remorse attributed commonly
to the puritan. He deliberately insulted Maxime Du Camp, his dear friend who tried to teach him
about popularity. He hated when anyone would interrupt his work. He was very tense and had
a short temper that he would avoid a day's chat even with an old friend because he was afraid
that it would distract him for at least a month after the fact. He seems to have alienated his
Mistress with his badly hidden preference to his or her inspiration.


8. They that are under the law are in a sad condition, because they are under that administration;
upon whose souls God doth not smile, they dying there; for the administration that God doth
smile upon His children through, is the Covenant of Grace, they being in Jesus Christ, the
Lord of life and consolation; but contrariwise to those that are under the law; for they have
His frowns, His rebukes, His threatenings, and with much severity they must be dealt withal--"For
they continued not in My covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord" (Heb 8:9).

