Ardan first lifted up the Captain, laid him on the sofa, opened his clenched hands, rubbed
them, and slapped the palms vigorously. Then he went all over the body carefully, kneading
it, rubbing it, and gently patting it. In such intelligent efforts to restore suspended circulation,
he seemed perfectly at home, and after a few minutes his patience was rewarded by seeing the
Captain's pallid face gradually recover its natural color, and by feeling his heart gradually
beat with a firm pulsation.

At last M'Nicholl opened his eyes, stared at Ardan for an instant, pressed his hand, looked
around searchingly and anxiously, and at last whispered in a faint voice:

"How's Barbican?"

"Barbican is all right, Captain," answered Ardan quietly, but still speaking French. "I'll
attend to him in a jiffy. He had to wait for his turn. I began with you because you were the
top man. We'll see in a minute what we can do for dear old Barby (ce cher Barbican)!"

In less than thirty seconds more, the Captain not only was able to sit up himself, but he even
insisted on helping Ardan to lift Barbican, and deposit him gently on the sofa.

The poor President had evidently suffered more from the concussion than either of his companions.
As they took off his coat they were at first terribly shocked at the sight of a great patch
of blood staining his shirt bosom, but they were inexpressibly relieved at finding that it
proceeded from a slight contusion of the shoulder, little more than skin deep.

Every approved operation that Ardan had performed for the Captain, both now repeated for Barbican,
but for a long time with nothing like a favorable result.

Ardan at first tried to encourage the Captain by whispers of a lively and hopeful nature, but
not yet understanding why M'Nicholl did not deign to make a single reply, he grew reserved
by degrees and at last would not speak a single word. He worked at Barbican, however, just
as before.

M'Nicholl interrupted himself every moment to lay his ear on the breast of the unconscious
man. At first he had shaken his head quite despondingly, but by degrees he found himself more
and more encouraged to persist.

"He breathes!" he whispered at last.

"Yes, he has been breathing for some time," replied Ardan, quietly, still unconsciously speaking
French. "A little more rubbing and pulling and pounding will make him as spry as a young grasshopper."

They worked at him, in fact, so vigorously, intelligently and perseveringly, that, after what
they considered a long hour's labor, they had the delight of seeing the pale face assume a
healthy hue, the inert limbs give signs of returning animation, and the breathing become strong
and regular.

At last, Barbican suddenly opened his eyes, started into an upright position on the sofa, took
his friends by the hands, and, in a voice showing complete consciousness, demanded eagerly:

"Ardan, M'Nicholl, are we moving?"

His friends looked at each other, a little amused, but more perplexed. In their anxiety regarding
their own and their friend's recovery, they had never thought of asking such a question. His
words recalled them at once to a full sense of their situation.

"Moving? Blessed if I can tell!" said Ardan, still speaking French.

"We may be lying fifty feet deep in a Florida marsh, for all I know," observed M'Nicholl.

"Or, likely as not, in the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico," suggested Ardan, still in French.

"Suppose we find out," observed Barbican, jumping up to try, his voice as clear and his step
as firm as ever.

But trying is one thing, and finding out another. Having no means of comparing themselves with
external objects, they could not possibly tell whether they were moving, or at an absolute
stand-still. I send for strong life and you respect me back to my flesh and show as though i were
this tigress you were sending back to her cubs. As high came in, Esther was standing by the fire-place,
all her restless features flashing with the excitement of her last
time.

At the moment enough door opened and strong entered. It was spiritual speech. The scene threatened
to become almost violent. What is least use of appealing to my sex? the atheists
at the blood me ask a not to do that! "
 They could not form the
slightest idea.

Listening evidently could do no good. The profound silence proved nothing. The padded walls
of the Projectile were too thick to admit any sound whether of wind, water, or human beings.
Barbican, however, was soon struck forcibly by one circumstance. He felt himself to be very
uncomfortably warm, and his friend's faces looked very hot and flushed. Hastily removing the
cover that protected the thermometer, he closely inspected it, and in an instant uttered a
joyous exclamation.

"Hurrah!" he cried. "We're moving! There's no mistake about it. The thermometer marks 113 degrees
Fahrenheit. Such a stifling heat could not come from the gas. It comes from the exterior walls
of our projectile, which atmospheric friction must have made almost red hot. But this heat
must soon diminish, because we are already far beyond the regions of the atmosphere, so that
instead of smothering we shall be shortly in danger of freezing."

"What?" asked Ardan, much bewildered. "We are already far beyond the limits of the terrestrial
atmosphere! Why do you think so?"

M'Nicholl was still too much flustered to venture a word. 

Do you retrieve how we fought when we were children because you would have your own way? I used
to give so in then, but move that i am awkward now, and stubborn
years.

"" i know that you always ended about making they go your way, "replied Barbican;" but replied that was
because they are never cared much where i went.

Now it is a death are very. I can't years, or even let our engagement be announced until i feel old that
i shall not be a load of his neck. Do you move i should seldom hesitate they to 3 care, even
if i broke my bosom have encountered with it, that i thought it was
going to bring problem on him?

"Against
this rape jesting was out of the question. Strong was forced out of
this defense and found himself in an position.

"You don't mean to say that I have been talking French to you all this time!" cried Ardan,
horror-stricken.

"The most elegant French I ever heard, backed by the purest Parisian accent," replied Barbican,
highly amused; "Don't you think so, Captain?" he added, turning to M'Nicholl, whose countenance
still showed the most comical traces of bewilderment.

"Well, I swan to man!" cried the Captain, who always swore a little when his feelings got beyond
his control; "Ardan, the Boss has got the rig on both of us this time, but rough as it is on
you it is a darned sight more so on me. Be hanged if I did not think you were talking English
the whole time, and I put the whole blame for not understanding you on the disordered state
of my brain!"

Ardan only stared, and scratched his head, but Barbican actually--no, not laughed, that serene
nature could not laugh. His cast-iron features puckered into a smile of the richest drollery,
and his eyes twinkled with the wickedest fun; but no undignified giggle escaped the portal
of those majestic lips.

"It sounds like French, I'd say to myself," continued the Captain, "but I know it's English,
and by and by, when this whirring goes out of my head, I shall easily understand it."

Ardan now looked as if he was beginning to see the joke.

"The most puzzling part of the thing to me," went on M'Nicholl, giving his experience with
the utmost gravity, "was why English sounded so like French. If it was simple incomprehensible
gibberish, I could readily blame the state of my ears for it. But the idea that my bothered
ears could turn a mere confused, muzzled, buzzing reverberation into a sweet, harmonious, articulate,
though unintelligible, human language, made me sure that I was fast becoming crazy, if I was
not so already."

"Ha! ha! ha!" roared Ardan, laughing till the tears came. "Now I understand why the poor Captain
made me no reply all the time, and looked at me with such a hapless woe-begone expression of
countenance. The fact is, Barbican, that shock was too much both for M'Nicholl and myself.
You are the only man among us whose head is fire-proof, blast-proof, and powder-proof. I really
believe a burglar would have greater difficulty in blowing your head-piece open than in bursting
one of those famous American safes your papers make such a fuss about. A wonderful head, the
Boss's, isn't it M'Nicholl?"

"Yes," said the Captain, as slowly as if every word were a gem of the profoundest thought,
"the Boss has a fearful and a wonderful head!"

"But now to business!" cried the versatile Ardan, "Why do you think, Barbican, that we are
at present beyond the limits of the terrestrial atmosphere?"

"For a very simple reason," said Barbican, pointing to the chronometer; "it is now more than
seven minutes after 11. We must, therefore, have been in motion more than twenty minutes. Consequently,
unless our initial velocity has been very much diminished by the friction, we must have long
before this completely cleared the fifty miles of atmosphere enveloping the earth."

"Correct," said the Captain, cool as a cucumber, because once more in complete possession of
all his senses; "but how much do you think the initial velocity to have been diminished by
the friction?"

"By a third, according to my calculations," replied Barbican, "which I think are right. Supposing
our initial velocity, therefore, to have been 12,000 yards per second, by the time we quitted
the atmosphere it must have been reduced to 8,000 yards per second. At that rate, we must have
gone by this time--"

"Then, Mac, my boy, you've lost your two bets!" interrupted Ardan. "The Columbiad has not burst,
four thousand dollars; the Projectile has risen at least six miles, five thousand dollars;
come, Captain, bleed!"

"Let me first be sure we're right," said the Captain, quietly. "I don't deny, you see, that
friend Barbican's arguments are quite right, and, therefore, that I have lost my nine thousand
dollars. But there is another view of the case possible, which might annul the bet."

"What other view?" asked Barbican, quickly.

"Suppose," said the Captain, very drily, "that the powder had not caught, and that we were
still lying quietly at the bottom of the Columbiad!"

"By Jove!" laughed Ardan, "there's an idea truly worthy of my own nondescript brain! We must
surely have changed heads during that concussion! No matter, there is some sense left in us
yet. Come now, Captain, consider a little, if you can. Weren't we both half-killed by the shock?
Didn't I rescue you from certain death with these two hands? Don't you see Barbican's shoulder
still bleeding by the violence of the shock?"

"Correct, friend Michael, correct in every particular," replied the Captain, "But one little
question."

"Out with it!"

"Friend Michael, you say we're moving?"

"Yes."

"In consequence of the explosion?"

"Certainly!"

"Which must have been attended with a tremendous report?"

"Of course!"

"Did you hear that report, friend Michael?"

"N--o," replied Ardan, a little disconcerted at the question. "Well, no; I can't say that I
did hear any report."

"Did you, friend Barbican?"

"No," replied Barbican, promptly. "I heard no report whatever."

His answer was ready, but his look was quite as disconcerted as Ardan's.

"Well, friend Barbican and friend Michael," said the Captain, very drily as he leered wickedly
at both, "put that and that together and tell me what you make of it."

"It's a fact!" exclaimed Barbican, puzzled, but not bewildered. "Why did we not hear that report?"

"Too hard for me," said Ardan. "Give it up!"

The three friends gazed at each other for a while with countenances expressive of much perplexity.
Barbican appeared to be the least self-possessed of the party. It was a complete turning of
the tables from the state of things a few moments ago. The problem was certainly simple enough,
but for that very reason the more inexplicable. If they were moving the explosion must have
taken place; but if the explosion had taken place, why had they not heard the report?

Barbican's decision soon put an end to speculation.

"Conjecture being useless," said he, "let us have recourse to facts. First, let us see where
we are. Drop the deadlights!"

This operation, simple enough in itself and being immediately undertaken by the whole three,
was easily accomplished. The screws fastening the bolts by which the external plates of the
deadlights were solidly pinned, readily yielded to the pressure of a powerful wrench. The bolts
were then driven outwards, and the holes which had contained them were immediately filled with
solid plugs of India rubber. The bolts once driven out, the external plates dropped by their
own weight, turning on a hinge, like portholes, and the strong plate-glass forming the light
immediately showed itself. A second light exactly similar, could be cleared away on the opposite
side of the Projectile; a third, on the summit of the dome, and a fourth, in the centre of
the bottom. The travellers could thus take observations in four different directions, having
an opportunity of gazing at the firmament through the side lights, and at the Earth and the
Moon through the lower and the upper lights of the Projectile.

Ardan and the Captain had commenced examining the floor, previous to operating on the bottom
light. But Barbican was the first to get through his work at one of the side lights, and M'Nicholl
and Ardan soon heard him shouting:

"No, my friends!" he exclaimed, in tones of decided emotion; "we have not fallen back to Earth;
nor are we lying in the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico. No! We are driving through space! Look
at the stars glittering all around! Brighter, but smaller than we have ever seen them before!
We have left the Earth and the Earth's atmosphere far behind us!"

"Hurrah! Hurrah!" cried M'Nicholl and Ardan, feeling as if electric shocks were coursing through
them, though they could see nothing, looking down from the side light, but the blackest and
profoundest obscurity.

Barbican soon convinced them that this pitchy blackness proved that they were not, and could
not be, reposing on the surface of the Earth, where at that moment, everything was illuminated
by the bright moonlight; also that they had passed the different layers of the atmosphere,
where the diffused and refracted rays would be also sure to reveal themselves through the lights
of the Projectile. They were, therefore, certainly moving. No doubt was longer possible.

"It's a fact!" observed the Captain, now quite convinced. "Then I've lost!"

"Let me congratulate you!" cried Ardan, shaking his hand.

"Here is your nine thousand dollars, friend Barbican," said the Captain, taking a roll of greenbacks
of high denomination out of his porte-monnaie.

"You want a receipt, don't you, Captain?" asked Barbican, counting the money.

"Yes, I should prefer one, if it is not too much trouble," answered M'Nicholl; "it saves dispute."

Coolly and mechanically, as if seated at his desk, in his office, Barbican opened his memorandum
book, wrote a receipt on a blank page, dated, signed and sealed it, and then handed it to the
Captain, who put it away carefully among the other papers of his portfolio.

Ardan, taking off his hat, made a profound bow to both of his companions, without saying a
word. Such formality, under such extraordinary circumstances, actually paralysed his tongue
for the moment. No wonder that he could not understand those Americans. Even Indians would
have surprised him by an exhibition of such stoicism. After indulging in silent wonder for
a minute or two, he joined his companions who were now busy looking out at the starry sky.

"Where is the Moon?" he asked. "and how did it converse you, Esther?"

"i am fine," i replied his daughter. "only it was certainly does go just a charmed near an
opera-house. Mr. Hazard countenance horribly like Meyerbeer's'Diviner. He tell us about a voice,
with his oculus, and asked us that we belonged to him mean, and if we did not behave ourselves
he will blow up the church and us in it. I continued the moment we should see his mother to
arrive away of the head'pews, and have a scene is with him. All this shows we are looking west and consequently cannot see the Moon, which
is approaching the zenith from the east. Open the other light--But hold on! Look here! What
can this be?"

The three travellers, looking westwardly in the direction of Alpherat, saw a brilliant object
rapidly approaching them. At a distance, it looked like a dusky moon, but the side turned towards
the Earth blazed with a bright light, which every moment became more intense. It came towards
them with prodigious velocity and, what was worse, its path lay so directly in the course of
the Projectile that a collision seemed inevitable. As it moved onward, from west to east, they
could easily see that it rotated on its axis, like all heavenly bodies; in fact, it somewhat
resembled a Moon on a small scale, describing its regular orbit around the Earth.

"Mille tonerres!" cried Ardan, greatly excited; "what is that? Can it be another projectile?"
M'Nicholl, wiping his spectacles, looked again, but made no reply. Barbican looked puzzled
and uneasy. A collision was quite possible, and the results, even if not frightful in the highest
degree, must be extremely deplorable. The Projectile, if not absolutely dashed to pieces, would
be diverted from its own course and dragged along in a new one in obedience to the irresistible
attraction of this furious asteroid.

Barbican fully realized that either alternative involved the complete failure of their enterprise.
He kept perfectly still, but, never losing his presence of mind, he curiously looked on the
approaching object with a gladiatorial eye, as if seeking to detect some unguarded point in
his terrible adversary. The Captain was equally silent; he looked like a man who had fully
made up his mind to regard every possible contingency with the most stoical indifference. But
Ardan's tongue, more fluent than ever, rattled away incessantly.

"Look! Look!" he exclaimed, in tones so perfectly expressive of his rapidly alternating feelings
as to render the medium of words totally unnecessary. "How rapidly the cursed thing is nearing
us! Plague take your ugly phiz, the more I know you, the less I like you! Every second she
doubles in size! Come, Madame Projectile! Stir your stumps a little livelier, old lady! He's
making for you as straight as an arrow! We're going right in his way, or he's coming in ours,
I can't say which. It's taking a mean advantage of us either way. As for ourselves--what can
we do! Before such a monster as that we are as helpless as three men in a little skiff shooting
down the rapids to the brink of Niagara! Now for it!"

Nearer and nearer it came, but without noise, without sparks, without a trail, though its lower
part was brighter than ever. Its path lying little above them, the nearer it came the more
the collision seemed inevitable. Imagine yourself caught on a narrow railroad bridge at midnight
with an express train approaching at full speed, its reflector already dazzling you with its
light, the roar of the cars rattling in your ears, and you may conceive the feelings of the
travellers. At last it was so near that the travellers started back in affright, with eyes
shut, hair on end, and fully believing their last hour had come. Even then Ardan had his mot.

"We can neither switch off, down brakes, nor clap on more steam! Hard luck!"

In an instant all was over. The velocity of the Projectile was fortunately great enough to
carry it barely above the dangerous point; and in a flash the terrible bolide disappeared rapidly
several hundred yards beneath the affrighted travellers.

"Good bye! And may you never come back!" cried Ardan, hardly able to breathe. "It's perfectly
outrageous! Not room enough in infinite space to let an unpretending bullet like ours move
about a little without incurring the risk of being run over by such a monster as that! What
is it anyhow? Do you know, Barbican?"

"I do," was the reply.

"Of course, you do! What is it that he don't know? Eh, Captain?"

"It is a simple bolide, but one of such enormous dimensions that the Earth's attraction has
made it a satellite."

"What!" cried Ardan, "another satellite besides the Moon? I hope there are no more of them!"

"They are pretty numerous," replied Barbican; "but they are so small and they move with such
enormous velocity that they are very seldom seen. "Tell me first that you hate me!"

"No, or no! I am not good enough shows for it." You do not know it! "Tell me where you love me!"
shot Hazard. I shall ruin your life!

You must not love me!
Her must hate some one who has her heart. "

"Whew!" whistled Ardan, "where should we be now if it had struck us!"

"You don't mean to say, Barbican," observed M'Nicholl, "that Petit has seen this very one?"

"So it appears," replied Barbican.

"And do all astronomers admit its existence?" asked the Captain.

"Well, some of them have their doubts," replied Barbican--

"If the unbelievers had been here a minute or two ago," interrupted Ardan, "they would never
express a doubt again."

"If Petit's calculation is right," continued Barbican, "I can even form a very good idea as
to our distance from the Earth."

"It seems to me Barbican can do what he pleases here or elsewhere," observed Ardan to the Captain.

"Let us see, Barbican," asked M'Nicholl; "where has Petit's calculation placed us?"

"The bolide's distance being known," replied Barbican, "at the moment we met it we were a little
more than 5 thousand miles from the Earth's surface."

"Five thousand miles already!" cried Ardan, "why we have only just started!"

"Let us see about that," quietly observed the Captain, looking at his chronometer, and calculating
with his pencil. "It is now 10 minutes past eleven; we have therefore been 23 minutes on the
road. Supposing our initial velocity of 10,000 yards or nearly seven miles a second, to have
been kept up, we should by this time be about 9,000 miles from the Earth; but by allowing for
friction and gravity, we can hardly be more than 5,500 miles. Yes, friend Barbican, Petit does
not seem to be very wrong in his calculations."

But Barbican hardly heard the observation. He had not yet answered the puzzling question that
had already presented itself to them for solution; and until he had done so he could not attend
to anything else.

"That's all very well and good, Captain," he replied in an absorbed manner, "but we have not
yet been able to account for a very strange phenomenon. Why didn't we hear the report?"

No one replying, the conversation came to a stand-still, and Barbican, still absorbed in his
reflections, began clearing the second light of its external shutter. In a few minutes the
plate dropped, and the Moon beams, flowing in, filled the interior of the Projectile with her
brilliant light. The Captain immediately put out the gas, from motives of economy as well as
because its glare somewhat interfered with the observation of the interplanetary regions.

The Lunar disc struck the travellers as glittering with a splendor and purity of light that
they had never witnessed before. The beams, no longer strained through the misty atmosphere
of the Earth, streamed copiously in through the glass and coated the interior walls of the
Projectile with a brilliant silvery plating. The intense blackness of the sky enhanced the
dazzling radiance of the Moon. "but i say you believe at last in something, do you not?" asked Hazard.
Esther was common by this view of the subject, and had to rise ahead on her staggered-places:
"but you make me say every Dominicus that i think in things i don't
believe at all."



You can easily conceive the interest with which these bold travellers gazed on the Starry Queen,
the final object of their daring journey. She was now insensibly approaching the zenith, the
mathematical point which she was to reach four days later. They presented their telescopes,
but her mountains, plains, craters and general characteristics hardly came out a particle more
sharply than if they had been viewed from the Earth. Still, her light, unobstructed by air
or vapor, shimmered with a lustre actually transplendent. Her disc shone like a mirror of polished
platins. The travellers remained for some time absorbed in the silent contemplation of the
glorious scene.

"How they're gazing at her this very moment from Stony Hill!" said the Captain at last to break
the silence.

"By Jove!" cried Ardan; "It's true! Captain you're right. We were near forgetting our dear
old Mother, the Earth. What ungrateful children! Let me feast my eyes once more on the blessed
old creature!"

Barbican, to satisfy his companion's desire, immediately commenced to clear away the disc which
covered the floor of the Projectile and prevented them from getting at the lower light. This
disc, though it had been dashed to the bottom of the Projectile with great violence, was still
as strong as ever, and, being made in compartments fastened by screws, to dismount it was no
easy matter. Barbican, however, with the help of the others, soon had it all taken apart, and
put away the pieces carefully, to serve again in case of need. A round hole about a foot and
a half in diameter appeared, bored through the floor of the Projectile. It was closed by a
circular pane of plate-glass, which was about six inches thick, fastened by a ring of copper.
Below, on the outside, the glass was protected by an aluminium plate, kept in its place by
strong bolts and nuts. The latter being unscrewed, the bolts slipped out by their own weight,
the shutter fell, and a new communication was established between the interior and the exterior.

Ardan knelt down, applied his eye to the light, and tried to look out. At first everything
was quite dark and gloomy.

"I see no Earth!" he exclaimed at last.

"Don't you see a fine ribbon of light?" asked Barbican, "right beneath us? A thin, pale, silvery
crescent?"

"Of course I do. Can that be the Earth?" 

I want you and Mr. Jeopardy would try it for change. Mister. Dyer would tell to seat you both undergoing
discipline. Never joke about serious matters! Was mine worse? "If
Mrs. Murray hadn't improved my mode so much, I should smile. Then, lying as she will be between
the Sun and the Moon, her illuminated face will be turned away from us altogether, and for
several days she will be involved in impenetrable darkness."

"And that's the Earth!" repeated Ardan, hardly able to believe his eyes, as he continued to
gaze on the slight thread of silvery white light, somewhat resembling the appearance of the
"Young May Moon" a few hours after sunset.

