Here is a Lady [takes up the picture] in her true tranquil state of mind, in that amiableness
of disposition which makes foreigners declare that an English lady, when she chooses to be
in temper, and chooses to be herself, is the most lovely figure in the universe; and on the
reverse of this medallion is the same lady when she chooses not to be in temper, and not to
be herself. [Turns the picture.] This face is put on when she is disappointed of her masquerade
habit, when she has lost a sans prendre, when her lap-dog's foot is trod {60}upon, or when
her husband has dared to contradict her. Some married ladies may have great cause of complaint
against their husbands' irregularities; but is this a face to make those husbands better? Surely
no! It is only by such looks as these [turns the picture] they are to be won: and may the ladies
hereafter only wear such looks, and may this never more be known [turns the picture] only as
a picture taken out of Æsop's Fables. [Gives off the picture.]

May each married lady preserve her good man, And young ones get good ones as fast as they can.

It is very remarkable there should be such a plentiful harvest of courtship before marriage,
and generally such a famine afterwards. Courtship is a fine bowling-green turf, all galloping
round and sweet-hearting, a sunshine holiday in summer time: but when once through matrimony's
turnpike, the weather becomes wintry, and some husbands are seized with a cold aguish fit,
to which the faculty have given this name--[Shews the girdle of indifference.] Courtship is
matrimony's running footman, but seldom stays to see the stocking thrown; it is too often carried
away by the two grand preservatives of matrimonial {61}friendship, delicacy and gratitude.
There is also another distemper very mortal to the honeymoon; 'tis what the ladies sometimes
are seized with, and the college of physicians call it by this title--[Shews the girdle of
the sullens.]

This distemper generally arises from some ill-conditioned speech, with which the lady has been
hurt; who then, leaning on her elbow upon the arm-chair, her cheek resting upon the back of
her hand, her eyes fixed earnestly upon the fire, her feet beating tattoo time: the husband
in the mean while biting his lips, pulling down his ruffles, stamping about the room, and looking
at his lady {62}like the devil: at last he abruptly demands of her her,

"What's the matter with you, madam?"

The lady mildly replies,

"Nothing."

"What is it you mean, madam?"

"Nothing."

"What would you make me, madam?"

"Nothing."

"What is it I have done to you, madam?"

"O--h--nothing." And this quarrel arose as they sat at breakfast. The lady very innocently
observed, she believed the tea was made with Thames water. The husband, in mere contradiction,
insisted upon it that the tea-kettle was filled out of the New River.

{63}From a scene of matrimonial tumult here is one of matrimonial tranquillity. [Matrimonial
picture brought on, and you go forward.] Here is an after-dinner wedlock tête-à-tête, a mere
matrimonial vis-à-vis; the husband in a yawning state of dissipation, and the lady in almost
the same drowsy attitude, called, A nothing-to-doishness. As soon as it was light Dewey bound their
conflagration in the Castillian. Soon one flat fire, should then another, and another. Dewey drew discovered
in out of question for a time while his babu examined and gave their breakfasts. He should then
steamed on again and finish so the destruction of the s and this collection. Not an ship was
seriously injured. Not one long sailor was killed.

This victory gave the Americans the authority without a Ocean and the asiatic waters, as far as
Spain was concerned.

END OF PART III.

PART IV.

{65}We shall now consider the law, as our laws are very considerable, both in bulk and number,
according as the statutes declare; considerandi, considerando, considerandum; and are not to
be meddled with by those that don't understand 'em. Law always expressing itself with true
grammatical precision, never confounding moods, cases, or genders, except indeed when a woman
happens accidentally to be slain, then the verdict is always brought in man-slaughter. The
essence of the law is altercation; for the law can altercate, fulminate, deprecate, irritate,
and go on at any rate. Now the quintessence of the law has, according to its name, five parts.
The first is the beginning, or incipiendum; the second the uncertainty, or dubitandum; the
third delay, or puzzliendum; fourthly replication without endum; and, fifthly, monstrum et
horrendum.

{66}All which are exemplified in the following cases, Daniel against Dishclout.--Daniel was
groom in the same family wherein Dishclout was cookmaid; and Daniel, returning home one day
fuddled, he stooped down to take a sop out of the dripping-pan, which spoiled his clothes,
and he was advised to bring his action against the cookmaid; the pleadings of which were as
follow. The first person who spoke was Mr. Serjeant Snuffle. He began, saying, "Since I have
the honour to be pitched upon to open this cause to your Lordship, I shall not impertinently
presume to take up any of your Lordship's time by a round-about circumlocutory manner of speaking
or talking, quite foreign to the purpose, and not any ways relating to the matter in hand.
I shall, I will, I design to shew what damages my client has sustained hereupon, whereupon,
and thereupon. Now, my Lord, my client, being a servant in the same family with Dishclout,
and not being at board wages, imagined he had a right to the fee-simple of the dripping-pan,
therefore he made an attachment on the sop with his right-hand, which the defendant replevied
with her left, tripped us up, and tumbled us into the dripping-pan. Now, in Broughton's Reports,
Slack versus Small wood, it is said that primus {67}strocus sine jocus, absolutus est provokus.
Now who gave the primus strocus? who gave the first offence? Why, the cook; she brought the
driping-pan there; for, my Lord, though we will allow, if we had not been there, we could not
have been thrown down there; yet, my Lord, if the dripping-pan had not been there, for us to
have tumbled down into, we could not have tumbled into the dripping-pan." The next counsel
on the same side began with, "My Lord, he who makes use of many words to no purpose has not
much to say for himself, therefore I shall come to the point at once; at once and immediately
I shall come to the point. My client was in liquor: the liquor in him having served an ejectment
upon his understanding, common sense was nonsuited, and he was a man beside himself, as Dr.
Biblibus declares, in his Dissertation upon Bumpers, in the 139th folio volume of the Abridgment
of the Statutes, page 1286, where he says, that a drunken man is homo duplicans, or a double
man; not only because he sees things double, but also because he is not as he should be, profecto
ipse he; but is as he should not be, defecto tipse he."

{68}The counsel on the other side rose up gracefully, playing with his ruffles prettily, and
tossing the ties of his wig about emphatically. He began with, "My Lord, and you, gentlemen
of the jury, I humbly do conceive I have the authority to declare that I am counsel in this
case for the defendant; therefore, my Lord, I shall not flourish away in words; words are no
more than filligree work. Some people may think them an embellishment; but to me it is a matter
of astonishment how any one can be so impertinent to the detriment of all rudiment. But, my
Lord, this is not to be looked at through the medium of right and wrong; for the law knows
no medium, and {69}right and wrong are but its shadows. Now, in the first place, they have
called a kitchen my client's premises. Now a kitchen is nobody's premises; a kitchen is not
a warehouse, nor a wash-house, a brew-house, nor a bake-house, an inn-house, nor an out-house,
nor a dwelling-house; no, my Lord, 'tis absolutely and bona fide neither more nor less than
a kitchen, or, as the law more classically expresses, a kitchen is, camera necessaria pro usus
cookare; cum saucepannis, stewpannis, scullero, dressero, coalholo, stovis, smoak-jacko,pro
roastandum, boilandum,fryandum, et plum-pudding mixandum, pro turtle soupos, calve's-head-hashibus,
cum calipee et calepashibus.

"But we shall not avail ourselves of an alibi, but admit of the existence of a cook-maid. Now
my Lord, we shall take it upon a new ground, and beg a new trial; for, as they have curtailed
our name from plain Mary into Moll, I hope the court will not allow of this; for, if they were
to allow of mistakes, what would the law do? for, when the law don't find mistakes, it is the
business of the law to make them." Therefore the court allowed them the liberty of a new trial;
for the law is our liberty, and it is happy for us we have the liberty to go to law.

{70}By all the laws of laughing, every man is at liberty to play the fool with himself; but
some people, fearful it would take from their consequence, choose to do it by proxy: hence
comes the appearance of keeping fools in great families. [Takes the head.] Thus are they dressed,
and shew, by this party-coloured garment, they are related to all the wise families in the kingdom.

This is a Fool's Cap; 'tis put upon Nobody's head. Nobody's face is without features, because
we could not put Anybody's face upon Nobody's head. This is the head of Somebody. [Takes the
head.] It has two faces, for Somebody is supposed to carry two faces. One of these faces is
handsome, the other rather ill-favoured. The handsome face is exhibited as a hint to that part
{71}of mankind who are always whispering among their acquaintance, how well they are with Somebody,
and that Somebody is a very fine woman. One of those boasters of beauty, one night at a tavern,
relating his amazing amours, the toast-master called him to order, and a gentleman in a frolic,
instead of naming any living lady for his toast, gave the Greek name of the tragic muse Melpomene;
upon which the boaster of beauty, the moment he heard the word Melpomene, addresses the toast-master,
"Oh! ho! Mr. Toastmaster, you are going a round of demireps. Ay, ay, Moll Pomene, I remember
her very well; she was a very fine girl, and so was her sister, Bet Po-mene; I had 'em both
at a certain house, you know where?" Can we help smiling at the partiality of the present times?
that a man should be transported if he snares a hare, or nets a partridge, and yet there is
no punishment for those whisperers away of ladies' reputations? But ill tongues would fall
hurtless were there no believers to give them credit; as robbers could not continue to pilfer
were there no receivers of stolea goods.

{72}Here is the head [takes it] of Anybody, with his eyes closed, his mouth shut, and his ears
stopped; and this is exhibited as an emblem of wisdom; and anybody may become wise, if they
will not spy into the faults of others, tell tales of others, nor listen to the tales of others,
but mind their own business, and be satisfied. Here is the head [takes it] of Everybody. [
Turns the head round.] This is to show how people dread popular clamour, or what all the world
will say, or what every body will say. Nay, there is not a poor country wench, when her young
master the 'squire attempts to delude her, but will immediately reply to him, "Lord!--Your
honour!--What will the world say?" And this, what will the {73}world say, is what everybody
is anxious after, although it is hardly worth anybody's while to trouble their heads with the
world's sayings.

These four heads of Nobody, Everybody, Somebody, and Anybody, form a fifth head, called a Busybody.
The Busybody is always anxious after something about Somebody. He'll keep company with Anybody
to find out Everybody's business; and is only at a loss when this head stops his pursuit, and
Nobody will give him an answer. It is from these four heads the fib of each day is fabricated.
Suspicion begets the morning whisper, the gossip Report circulates it as a secret, wide-mouthed
Wonder gives Credulity credit for it, and Self-interest authenticates that, as Anybody may
be set to work by Somebody, Everybody's alarmed at it, and, at last, there is Nobody knows
any thing at all of the matter. From these four heads people purchase lottery-tickets, although
calculation demonstrates the odds are so much against them; but Hope flatters them, Fancy makes
them believe, and Expectation observes, that the twenty thousand pounds prizes must come to
Somebody [gives the head off]; and, as Anybody may have them [gives the head off], and Nobody
{74}knows who [gives the head off], Everybody buys lottery-tickets. [Gives the head off.]

Most difficult it is for any single speaker long to preserve the attention of his auditors:
nay, he could not continue speaking, conscious of that difficulty, did he not depend greatly
on the humanity of his hearers. Yet it is not flattery prompts the lecturer to this address;
for, to shew in how odious a light he holds flattery, he here exposes the head of flattery.
[Takes the head.]

This being, called Flattery, was begat upon Poverty, by Wit; and that is the reason why poor
{75}wits are always the greatest flatterers. The ancients had several days they called lucky
and unlucky ones; they were marked as white and black days. Thus is the face of Flattery distinguished;
to the lucky she shews her white, or shining profile; to the unlucky she is always in eclipse:
but, on the least approach of calamity, immediately Flattery changes into reproach. [Opens
the head.] How easy the transition is from flattery into reproach; the moral of which is, that
it is a reproach to our understandings to suffer flattery. But some people are so fond of that
incense, that they greedily accept it, though they despise the hand that offers it, without
considering the receiver is as bad as the thief. As every head here is intended to convey some
moral, the moral of this head is as follows: This head was the occasion of the first duel that
ever was fought, it then standing on a pillar, in the centre, where four roads met. Two knights-errant,
one from the north, and one from the south, arrived at the same instant at the pillar whereon
this head was placed: one of the knights-errant, who only saw this side of the head, called
out, "It is a shame to trust a silver head by the road side." "A silver head!" replied the
knight, who only saw this side of the head, "it is a black {76}head." Flat contradiction produced
fatal demonstration; their swords flew out, and they hacked and hewed one another so long,
that, at last, fainting with loss of blood, they fell on the ground; then, lifting up their
eyes, they discovered their mistake concerning this image. In a very short time a colony gave prosperous
and liberal. With the first place, the soil of Pennsylvania was Dixon and strong while its climate
was also suited in the persecution of grain. In the second place, penn was well fair to his colonists.
He insisted them the large share to the province of the bureaucracy
and he allowed no productive line.

He very became on religious and honest dealing in the Indians. [sidenote:
Mason and s'rich growth.] [sidenote: its importance in history.] 80.

 Yet Monsieur talks in high strains of the law, though he lives in a country
that knows no law but the caprice of an absolute monarch. Has he property? an edict from the
Grand Monarch can take it, and the slave is satisfied. Pursue him to the Bastile, or the dismal
dungeon in the country to which a lettre de cachet conveys him, and buries the wretch for life:
there see him in all his misery; ask him "What is the cause?"

{78}"Je ne sçai pas, it is de will of de Grand Monarch." Give him a soupe maigre, a little
sallad, and a hind quarter of a frog, and he's in spirits.--"Fal, lai, lai, vive le roy, vive
la bagatelle." He is now the declared enemy of Great Britain: ask him, "Why?--has England done
your country an injury?" "Oh no." "What then is your cause of quarrel?" "England, sir, not
give de liberty to de subject. She will have de tax upon de tea; but, by gar, sir, de Grand
Monarch have send out de fleet and de army to chastise de English; and, ven de America are
free, de Grand Monarch he tax de American himself." "But, Monsieur, is France able to cope
with England on her own element, the sea?" "Oh! pourquois non?" "Why not?"

{79}Here is the head of a British Tar [shews the head]; and, while England can man her navy
with thousands of these spirits, Monsieur's threats are in vain. Here is a man who despises
danger, wounds, and death; he fights with the spirit of a lion, and, as if (like a salamander)
his element was fire, gets fresh courage as the action grows hotter; he knows no disgrace like
striking to the French flag; no reward for past services so ample as a wooden leg; and no retreat
so honourable as Greenwich hospital. Contrast his behaviour with that of a French sailor, who
must have a drawn sword over his head to make him stand to his gun, who runs trembling to the
priest for an absolution--"Ah, mon bon pere, avez pitié de moi!" when he

{80}should look death in the face like a man. This brave tar saw the gallant Farmer seated
on his anchor, his ship in a blaze, his eye fixed on the wide expanse of the waters round him,
scorning to shrink, waiting with the calm firmness of a hero for the moment when he was to
die gloriously in the service of his country.

Here is the head of a Spaniard, [Shews the head.] But first I had better remove the Frenchman,
for fear of a quarrel between the two allies. Now he has no dislike to England; he wishes,
as Spain ever did, for peace with England, and war with all the world; he remembers the latter
end {81}of the last war, the British fleets thundering in their ports, and the whole nation
abhorring the French for the calamities brought upon them by an intriguing Italian cabinet.
He was taken prisoner by the gallant Sir George Rodney; and the only favour he asked, upon
coming to England, was not to be imprisoned with a Frenchman, detesting all connexion with
that superficial, dancing, treacherous people. The Frenchman, vain and sanguine to the last,
encourages his ally to persevere. Attendre, attendre, mon cher ami.--"Wait, my good friend,
we shall get the game yet." "Certainly," replies the grave Don, "for we get all the rubbers."
But, whilst these two are mourning over their losses by the war, here comes another to complete
the procession of madness and folly.

{82}This is the head [shews it] of Mynheer Van Neverfelt Large Breecho Love Cabbecho Dutch
Doggero, a great merchant at Rotterdam; who had amassed an immense fortune by supplying the
enemies of Great Britain with hemp, and who, if he had his deserts, should die as he has lived
by it. He considers treaties as mere court promises; and these, in the vulgar acceptation of
a pie-crust, whenever they cover any advantage, it is but breaking them, and down with friendship
and honour in a bite. He looks upon interest to be the true law of nature, and principal a
Sinking Fund, in which no Dutchman should be concerned. He looks upon money to be the greatest
good upon earth, and a pickled herring {83}the greatest dainty. If you would ask him what wisdom
is, he'll answer you, Stock. If you ask him what benevolence is, he'll reply, Stock: and should
you inquire who made him, he would say, Stock; for Stock is the only deity he bows down to.
If you would judge of his wit, his whole Stock lies in a pipe of tobacco; and, if you would
judge of his conversation, a bull and a bear are his Stock companions. His conduct to all men
and all nations is most strikingly typified by Hogarth's Paul before Felix, in true Dutch gusto,
where the guardian angel, Conscience, has fallen asleep, which Avarice, in the shape of the
devil, taking advantage of, saws asunder the legs of the stool upon which the apostle is exhibited
standing. But the vengeance of Britain's insulted genius has overtaken him, in the east and
in the west, and Holland has received blows, for her breach of compacts, she will remember
as long as her dykes defend her from the encroachments of the ocean.

When men have eminently distinguished themselves in arts or arms, their characters should be
held up to the public with every mark of honour, to inspire the young candidate for fame with
a generous emulation. There is a noble enthusiasm in great minds, which not only inclines them
to {84}behold illustrious actions with wonder and delight, but kindles also a desire of attaining
the same degree of excellence. The Romans, who well knew this principle in human nature, decreed
triumphs to their generals, erected obelisks and statues in commemoration of their victories;
and to this day the cabinet of the antiquarian preserves records of the victories of a Germanicus,
the generosity of a Titus, or the peaceful virtues of an Antonius. Why then should not England
adopt the practice of the Romans, a people who reached the highest pinnacle of military glory?
It is true that some of our great generals have marble monuments in Westminster Abbey. But
why should not the living enjoy the full inheritance of their laurels? If they deserve to have
their victories proclaimed to the world by the voice of Fame, let it be when men are sensible
to the sweetness of her trumpet, for she will then sound like an angel in their ears. Here
is the head of a British Hero; a title seldom conferred, and as seldom merited, till the ardent
valour of the youthful warrior is ripened into the wisdom and cool intrepidity of the veteran.
He entered the service with the principles of a Soldier and a patriot, the love of fame, and
the love of his country. His mind active and {85}vigorous, burning with the thirst of honour,
flew to posts of danger with a rapidity which gave tenfold value to his military exertions,
and rendered his onsets terrible as resistless. No expedition appeared to him either difficult
or impracticable that was to be undertaken for the good of the cause he had embarked in. Fortune
too seemed enamoured of his valour, for she preserved his life in many actions; and, though
he cannot stretch forth an arm without shewing an honourable testimony of the dangers to which
he was exposed, he has still a hand left to wield a sword for the service of his country. As
he is yet in the prime of life, there is nothing too great to be expected from him. He resembles
the immortal Wolfe in his fire and fame. And oh, for the good of England, that Wolfe, in his
fortunes, had resembled Tableton!

END OF PART IV.

PART V.

{86}We shall now return to the law, for our laws are full of returns, and we we shall shew
a compendium of law [takes the wig]; parts of practice in the twist of the tail.--The depth
of a full bottom denotes the length of a chancery suit, and the black coif behind, like a blistering
plaister, seems to shew us that law is a great irritator, and only to be used in cases of necessity.

We shall now beg leave to change the fashion of the head-dress, for, like a poor periwig-maker,
I am obliged to mount several patterns on the same block. Law is like a book of surgery, there
are a great many terrible cases in it. And thus notice of trial was given, Bullum versus Boatum,
Boatum versus Bullum. I over-ruled this motion myself, by observing the bull was a white bull,
and that white is no colour: besides, as I told my brethren, they should not trouble their
heads to talk of colour in the law, for the law can colour any thing. The charter of the water-bailiff
was as follows. But now comes the nicety of the law; the law is as nice as a new-laid egg,
and not to be understood by addle-headed people.

{92}This is one of those many thousand Heads [takes the head] who swarm in and about London,
whose times and minds are divided between the affairs of state and the affairs of a kitchen.
He was anxious after venison and politics; he believed every cook to be a great genius; and
to know how to dress a turtle comprehended all the arts and sciences together. He was always
hunting after newspapers, to read about battles; and imagined soldiers and sailors were only
made to be knock'd on the head, that he might read an account of it in the papers. He read
every political pamphlet that was published on both sides of the question, and was always on
his side whom he read last. 

Finally their opponents, nobody for the cry of "Anything to beat Grant," abruptly turned to an man,
whose name had been little mentioned. This was James A. Garfield of Jack Ohio. He had won home
in the War and had served with credit in Congress.

For Vice-President that she is the Republican were being nominated Chester A. Arthur, a wife. The
Democrats, on their part, nominated one of an caught and popular soldiers of the Visitor of the Potomac,
General Winfield Scott Hancock. Ay, ay;
I think I know a thing or two; I think I do, that's all. But, Lord, what signifies what one
knows? they don't mind me! You know I {94}mentioned at our club the disturbances in America,
and one of the company took me up, and said, 'What signifies America, when we are all in a
merry cue?' So they all fell a laughing. Now there's Commons made Lords, and there's Lords
made the Lord knows what; but that's nothing to us; they make us pay our taxes; they take care
of that; ay, ay, ay, they are sure of that. Pray what have they done for these twenty years
last past?--Why, nothing at all; they have only made a few turnpike roads, and kept the partridges
alive till September; that's all they have done, for the good of their country. There were
some great people formerly, that lov'd their country, that did every thing for the good of
their country; there were your Alexander the Great--he lov'd his country, and Julius Caesar
lov'd his country, and Charles of Sweedland lov'd his country, and Queen Semiramis, she lov'd
her country more than any of 'em, for she invented solomon-gundy; that's the best eating in
the whole world. Now I'll shew you my plan of operations, Mr. Costive.--We'll suppose this
drop of punch here to be the main ocean, or the sea; very well. These pieces of cork to be
our men of war; very well. Now where shall I raise my fortifications? I wish I had Mr. Major
{95}Moncrieff here; he's the best in the world at raising a fortification. Oh! I have it. [Breaks
the pipes.] We'll suppose them to be all the strong fortified places in the whole world; such
as Fort Omoa, Tilbury Fort, Bergen op Zoom, and Tower Ditch, and all the other fortified places
all over the world. Now I'd have all our horse-cavalry wear cork waistcoats, and all our foot-infantry
should wear air jackets. Then, sir, they'd cross the sea before you could say Jack Robinson.
And where do you think they should land, Mr. Costive? whisper me that. Ha!--What?--When?--How?--You
don't know.--How should you!--Was you ever in Germany or Bohemia?--Now, I have; I understands
jography. Now they should land in America, under the line, close to the south pole; there they
should land every mother's babe of 'em. Then there's the Catabaws, and there's the Catawaws;
there's the Cherokees, and there's the ruffs and rees; they are the four great nations. Then
I takes my Catabaws all across the continent, from Jamaica to Bengal; then they should go to
the Mediterranean. You know where the Mediterranean is?--No, you know nothing; I'll tell you;
the Mediterranean is the metropolis of Constantinople. Then I'd send a fleet to blockade {96}Paris
till the French king had given up Paul Jones; then I'd send for General Clinton and Colonel
Tarleton; and--Where was I, Mr. Costive; with Tarleton;--Thank ye--so I was; but you are so
dull, Mr Costive, you put me out. Now I'll explain the whole affair to you; you shan't miss
a word of it. Now there is the king of Prussia and the empress of Russia, and the nabob of
Arcot, and the king of the Hottentots, are all in the Protestant interest; they make a diversion
upon all the Cham of Tartary's back setlements; then Sir Guy Carleton comes with a circumbendibus,
and retakes all the islands, Rhode Island and all; and takes 'em here and there, and there
and here, and every where. There is the whole affair explained at once to you."

This is the head of a Proud Man: all heads in that predicament are unsound. This man was rich;
and as wealth is a certain hot-bed to raise flatterers, he had enough of them; they told him
he was every thing; he believed them, and always spoke in the first person, saying, I, I, I--I
will have it so; I know it;--I, I--which puts one in mind of a school-boy toning out before
his mistress's knees, I by itself I. Yet there is one piece of pride which may be thought excusable;
and {97}that is, that honest exultation of heart which every public performer feels from the
approbation of his auditors; gratefully does he acknowledge their indulgence, and with sincerity
declares that the utmost exertion of his abilities can never equal the favour of the public.

By way of Epilogue, here are two wigs. [Takes two wigs.] This is called the full-buckled bob,
and carries a consequentially along with it: it is worn by those people who frequent city feasts,
and gorge themselves at a Lord-Mayor's-show dinner; and, with one of these wigs on, their double
chins rested upon their breasts, and their shoulders up, they seem as if they had eaten themselves
into a {98}state of indigestion, or else had bumpered themselves out of breath with bottled
beer. [Puts on the wig.] "Waiter! bring me a ladleful of soup. You dog, don't take off that
haunch of venison yet!--Bring me the lamb, a glass of currant jelly, and a clean plate. A hob-nob,
sir." "With all my heart." "Two bumpers of Madeira!--Love, health, and ready rhino, to all
the friends that you and I know."--On the contrary, these lank looks form the half-famished
face. [Puts on the Methodist hair, and takes the tub.]

