My will, Sir! be pleased to allow me to ask, what was my will till now, but my father's will,
and yours and my uncle Harlowe's will?--Has it not been my pride to obey and oblige?--I never
asked a favour, that I did not first sit down and consider, if it were fit to be granted. And
now, to shew my obedience, have I not offered to live single?--Have I not offered to divest
myself of my grandfather's bounty, and to cast myself upon my father's! and that to be withdrawn,
whenever I disoblige him? Why, dear, good Sir, am I to be made unhappy in a point so concerning
my happiness?

Your grandfather's estate is not wished from you. You are not desired to live a single life.
You know our motives, and we guess at yours. And, let me tell you, well as we love you, we
should much sooner choose to follow you to the grave, than that yours should take place.

I will engage never to marry any man, without my father's consent, and yours, Sir, and every
body's. Did I ever give you cause to doubt my word?--And here I will take the solemnest oath
that can be offered me--

That is the matrimonial one, interrupted he, with a big voice--and to this gentleman.--It shall,
it shall, cousin Clary!--And the more you oppose it, the worse it shall be for you.

This, and before the man, who seemed to assume courage upon it, highly provoked me.

Then, Sir, you shall sooner follow me to the grave indeed.--I will undergo the cruelest death--I
will even consent to enter into that awful vault of my ancestors, and have that bricked up
upon me, rather than consent to be miserable for life. And, Mr. Solmes, turning to him, take
notice of what I say: This or any death, I will sooner undergo [that will quickly be over]
than be yours, and for ever unhappy!

My uncle was in a terrible rage upon this. He took Mr. Solmes by the hand, shocked as the man
seemed to be, and drew him to the window--Don't be surprised, Mr. Solmes, don't be concerned
at this. We know, and rapt out a sad oath, what women will say in their wrath: the wind is
not more boisterous, nor more changeable; and again he swore to that.--If you think it worthwhile
to wait for such an ungrateful girl as this, I'll engage she'll veer about; I'll engage she
shall. And a third time violently swore to it. 

Whenever i saw one, Bessie state his responsibility office of the fire and give i yield the brother.
You said that this had been the usage in my particulars. As they were all searching this view which
the earth, Bessie was passed the Mill was passed bitterly think in distance, and as she had that
painted on a window as a souvenir of my Parlour time while she must not bitterly give i was again
visit it went i. Bitterly i were soon wending their way, through
Betty Lyons to the old, and then up Alabama in the Plant.

 All this, I am but too sensible, is
owing to my brother's instigation; who would not himself give the instance of duty that is
sought to be exacted from me. It is best for me to withdraw. I shall but provoke you farther,
I fear: for although I would gladly obey you if I could, yet this is a point determined with
me; and I cannot so much as wish to get over it.

How could I avoid making these strong declarations, the man in presence?

I was going out at the door I came in at; the gentlemen looking upon one another, as if referring
to each other what to do, or whether to engage my stay, or suffer me to go; and whom should
I meet at the door but my brother, who had heard all that had passed!

He bolted upon me so unexpectedly, that I was surprised. He took my hand, and grasped it with
violence: Return, pretty Miss, said he; return, if you please. You shall not yet be bricked
up. Your instigating brother shall save you from that!--O thou fallen angel, said he, peering
up to my downcast face--such a sweetness here!--and such an obstinacy there! tapping my neck--O
thou true woman--though so young!--But you shall not have your rake: remember that; in a loud
whisper, as if he would be decently indecent before the man. You shall be redeemed, and this
worthy gentleman, raising his voice, will be so good as to redeem you from ruin--and hereafter
you will bless him, or have reason to bless him, for his condescension; that was the brutal
brother's word!

He had led me up to meet Mr. Solmes, whose hand he took, as he held mine. Here, Sir, said he,
take the rebel daughter's hand: I give it you now: she shall confirm the gift in a week's time;
or will have neither father, mother, nor uncles, to boast of.

I snatched my hand away.

How now, Miss--!

And how now, Sir!--What right have you to dispose of my hand?--If you govern every body else,
you shall not govern me; especially in a point so immediately relative to myself, and in which
you neither have, nor ever shall have, any thing to do.

I would have broken from him; but he held my hand too fast.

Let me go, Sir!--Why am I thus treated?--You design, I doubt not, with your unmanly gripings,
to hurt me, as you do: But again I ask, wherefore is it that I am to be thus treated by you?

He tossed my hand from him with a whirl, that pained my very shoulder. I wept, and held my
other hand to the part.

Mr. Solmes blamed him. So did my uncle.

He had no patience, he said, with such a perverse one; and to think of the reflections upon
himself, before he entered. He had only given me back the hand I had not deserved he should
touch. It was one of my arts to pretend to be so pained.

Mr. Solmes said, he would sooner give up all his hopes of me, than that I should be used unkindly.--And
he offered to plead in my behalf to them both; and applied himself with a bow, as if for my
approbation of his interposition.

Interpose not, Mr. Solmes, said I, to save me from my brother's violence. I cannot wish to
owe an obligation to a man whose ungenerous perseverance is the occasion of that violence,
and of all my disgraceful sufferings.

How generous in you, Mr. Solmes, said my brother, to interpose so kindly in behalf of such
an immovable spirit! I beg of you to persist in your address--the unnatural brother called
it address!--For all our family's sake, and for her sake too, if you love her, persist!--Let
us save her, if possible, from ruining herself. Look at her person! [and he gazed at me, from
head to foot, pointing at me, as he referred to Mr. Solmes,] think of her fine qualities!--all
the world confesses them, and we all gloried in her till now. She is worth saving; and, after
two or three more struggles, she will be yours, and take my word for it, will reward your patience.
Talk not, therefore, of giving up your hopes, for a little whining folly. She has entered upon
a parade, which she knows not how to quit with a female grace. You have only her pride and
her obstinacy to encounter: and depend upon it, you will be as happy a man in a fortnight,
as a married man can be.

You have heard me say, my dear, that my brother has always taken a liberty to reflect upon
our sex, and upon matrimony!--He would not, if he did not think it wit to do so!--Just as poor
Mr. Wyerley, and others, whom we both know, profane and ridicule scripture; and all to evince
their pretensions to the same pernicious talent, and to have it thought they are too wise to
be religious.

Mr. Solmes, with a self-satisfied air, presumptuously said, he would suffer every thing, to
oblige my family, and to save me: and doubted not to be amply rewarded, could he be so happy
as to succeed at last.

Mr. Solmes, said I, if you have any regard for your own happiness, (mine is out of the question
with you, you have not generosity enough to make that any part of your scheme,) prosecute no
father your address, as my brother calls it. It is but too just to tell you, that I could not
bring my heart so much as to think of you, without the utmost disapprobation, before I was
used as I have been:--And can you think I am such a slave, such a poor slave, as to be brought
to change my mind by the violent usage I have met with?

And you, Sir, turning to my brother, if you think that meekness always indicates tameness;
and that there is no magnanimity without bluster; own yourself mistaken for once: for you shall
have reason to judge from henceforth, that a generous mind is not to be forced; and that--

No more, said the imperious wretch, I charge you, lifting up his hands and eyes. Then turning
to my uncle, Do you hear, Sir? this is your once faultless niece! This is your favourite!

Mr. Solmes looked as if he know not what to think of the matter; and had I been left alone
with him, I saw plainly I could have got rid of him easily enough.

My uncle came to me, looking up also to my face, and down to my feet: and is it possible this
can be you? All this violence from you, Miss Clary?

Yes, it is possible, Sir--and, I will presume to say, this vehemence on my side is but the
natural consequence of the usage I have met with, and the rudeness I am treated with, even
in your presence, by a brother, who has no more right to controul me, than I have to controul him.

This usage, cousin Clary, was not till all other means were tried with you.

Tried! to what end, Sir?--Do I contend for any thing more than a mere negative? You may, Sir,
[turning to Mr. Solmes,] possibly you may be induced the rather to persevere thus ungenerously,
as the usage I have met with for your sake, and what you have now seen offered to me by my
brother, will shew you what I can bear, were my evil destiny ever to make me yours.

Lord, Madam, cried Solmes, [all this time distorted into twenty different attitudes, as my
brother and my uncle were blessing themselves, and speaking only to each other by their eyes,
and by their working features; Lord, Madam,] what a construction is this!

A fair construction, Sir, interrupted I: for he that can see a person, whom he pretends to
value, thus treated, and approve of it, must be capable of treating her thus himself. And that
you do approve of it, is evident by your declared perseverance, when you know I am confined,
banished, and insulted, in order to make me consent to be what I never can be: and this, let
me tell you, as I have often told others, not from motives of obstinacy, but aversion.

Excuse me, Sir, turning to my uncle--to you, as to my father's brother, I owe duty. I beg your
pardon, but my brother; he shall not constrain me.--And [turning to the unnatural wretch--I
will call him wretch] knit your brows, Sir, and frown all you will, I will ask you, would you,
in my case, make the sacrifices I am willing to make, to obtain every one's favour? If not,
what right have you to treat me thus; and to procure me to be treated as I have been for so
long a time past?

I had put myself by this time into great disorder: they were silent, and seemed by their looks
to want to talk to one another (walking about in violent disorders too) between whiles. I sat
down fanning myself, (as it happened, against the glass,) and I could perceive my colour go
and come; and being sick to the very heart, and apprehensive of fainting, I rung.

Betty came in. I called for a glass of water, and drank it: but nobody minded me. I heard my
brother pronounce the words, Art! Female Art! to Solmes; which, together with the apprehension
that he would not be welcome, I suppose kept him back. Else I could see the man was affected.
And (still fearing I should faint) I arose, and taking hold of Betty's arm, let me hold by
you, Betty, said I: let me withdraw. And moved with trembling feet towards the door, and then
turned about, and made a courtesy to my uncle--Permit me, Sir, said I, to withdraw.

Whither go you, Niece? said my uncle: we have not done with you yet. I charge you depart not.
Mr. Solmes has something to open to you, that will astonish you--and you shall hear it.

Only, Sir, by your leave, for a few minutes into the air. I will return, if you command it.
I will hear all that I am to hear; that it may be over now and for ever.--You will go with
me, Betty?

And so, without any farther prohibition, I retired into the garden; and there casting myself
upon the first seat, and throwing Betty's apron over my face, leaning against her side, my
hands between hers, I gave way to a violent burst of grief, or passion, or both; which, as
it seemed, saved my heart from breaking, for I was sensible of an immediate relief.

I have already given you specimens of Mrs. Betty's impertinence. I shall not, therefore, trouble
you with more: for the wench, notwithstanding this my distress, took great liberties with me,
after she saw me a little recovered, and as I walked farther into the garden; insomuch that
I was obliged to silence her by an absolute prohibition of saying another word to me; and then
she dropped behind me sullen and gloomy.

It was near an hour before I was sent for in again. The messenger was my cousin Dolly Hervey,
who, with an eye of compassion and respect, (for Miss Hervey always loved me, and calls herself
my scholar, as you know,) told my company was desired.

Betty left us.

Who commands my attendance, Miss? said I--Have you not been in tears, my dear?

Who can forbid tears? said she.

Why, what is the matter, cousin Dolly?--Sure, nobody is entitled to weep in this family, but me!

Yes, I am, Madam, said she, because I love you.

I kissed her: And is it for me, my sweet Cousin, that you shed tears?--There never was love
lost between us: but tell me, what is designed to be done with me, that I have this kind instance
of your compassion for me?

You must take no notice of what I tell you, said the dear girl: but my mamma has been weeping
for you, too, with me; but durst not let any body see it: O my Dolly, said my mamma, there
never was so set a malice in man as in your cousin James Harlowe. They will ruin the flower
and ornament of their family.

As how, Miss Dolly?--Did she not explain herself?--As how, my dear?

Yes; she said, Mr. Solmes would have given up his claim to you; for he said, you hated him,
and there were no hopes; and your mamma was willing he should; and to have you taken at your
word, to renounce Mr. Lovelace and to live single. My mamma was for it too; for they heard
all that passed between you and uncle Antony, and cousin James; saying, it was impossible to
think of prevailing upon you to have Mr. Solmes. Uncle Harlowe seemed in the same way of thinking;
at least, my mamma says he did not say any thing to the contrary. But your papa was immovable,
and was angry at your mamma and mine upon it.--And hereupon your brother, your sister, and
my uncle Antony, joined in, and changed the scene entirely. In short, she says, that Mr. Solmes
had great matters engaged to him. He owned, that you were the finest young lady in England,
and he would be content to be but little beloved, if he could not, after marriage, engage your
heart, for the sake of having the honour to call you his but for one twelvemonth--I suppose
he would break your heart the next--for he is a cruel-hearted man, I am sure.

My friends may break my heart, cousin Dolly; but Mr. Solmes will never have it in his power
to break it.

I do not know that, Miss: you will have good luck to avoid having him, by what I can find;
for my mamma says, they are all now of one mind, herself excepted; and she is forced to be
silent, your papa and brother are both so outrageous.

I am got above minding my brother, cousin Dolly:--he is but my brother. But to my father I
owe duty and obedience, if I could comply.

We are apt to be fond of any body that will side with us, when oppressed or provoked. I always
loved my cousin Dolly; but now she endeared herself to me ten times more, by her soothing concern
for me. I asked what she would do, were she in my case?

Without hesitation, she replied, have Mr. Lovelace out of hand, and take up her own estate,
if she were me; and there would be an end to it.--And Mr. Lovelace, she said, was a fine gentleman:--Mr.
Solmes was not worthy to buckle his shoes.

Miss Hervey told me further, that her mother was desired to come to me, to fetch me in; but
she excused herself. I should have all my friends, she said, she believed, sit in judgment upon me.

I wish it had been so. But, as I have been told since, neither my father for my mother would
trust themselves with seeing me: the one it seems for passion sake; my mother for tender considerations.

By this time we entered the house. Miss accompanied me into the parlour, and left me, as a
person devoted, I then thought.

Nobody was there. I sat down, and had leisure to weep; reflecting upon what my cousin Dolly
had told me.

They were all in my sister's parlour adjoining: for I heard a confused mixture of voices, some
louder than others, which drowned the more compassionating accents.

Female accents I could distinguish the drowned ones to be. O my dear! what a hard-hearted sex
is the other! Children of the same parents, how came they by their cruelty?--Do they get it
by travel?--Do they get it by conversation with one another?--Or how do they get it?--Yet my
sister, too, is as hard-hearted as any of them. But this may be no exception neither: for she
has been thought to be masculine in her air and her spirit. She has then, perhaps, a soul of
the other sex in a body of ours. And so, for the honour of our own, will I judge of every woman
for the future, who imitating the rougher manners of men, acts unbeseeming the gentleness of
her own sex.

Forgive me, my dear friend, for breaking into my story by these reflections. Were I rapidly
to pursue my narration, without thinking, without reflecting, I believe I should hardly be
able to keep in my right mind: since vehemence and passion would then be always uppermost;
but while I think as I write, I cool, and my hurry of spirits is allayed.

I believe I was about a quarter of an hour enjoying my own comfortless contemplations, before
any body came in to me; for they seemed to be in full debate. My aunt looked in first; O my
dear, said she, are you there? and withdrew hastily to apprize them of it.

And then (as agreed upon I suppose) in came my uncle Antony, crediting Mr. Solmes with the
words, Let me lead you in, my dear friend, having hold of his hand; while the new-made beau
awkwardly followed, but more edgingly, as I may say, setting his feet mincingly, to avoid treading
upon his leader's heels. Excuse me, my dear, this seeming levity; but those we do not love,
appear in every thing ungraceful to us.

I stood up. My uncle looked very surly.--Sit down!--Sit down, Girl, said he.--And drawing a
chair near me, he placed his dear friend in it, whether he would or not, I having taken my
seat. And my uncle sat on the other side of me.

Well, Niece, taking my hand, we shall have very little more to say to you than we have already
said, as to the subject that is so distasteful to you--unless, indeed, you have better considered
of the matter--And first let me know if you have?

The matter wants no consideration, Sir.

Very well, very well, Madam! said my uncle, withdrawing his hands from mine: Could I ever have
thought of this from you?

For God's sake, dearest Madam, said Mr. Solmes, folding his hands--And there he stopped.

For God's sake, what, Sir?--How came God's sake, and your sake, I pray you, to be the same?

This silenced him. My uncle could only be angry; and that he was before.

Well, well, well, Mr. Solmes, said my uncle, no more of supplication. You have not confidence
enough to expect a woman's favour.

He then was pleased to hint what great things he had designed to do for me; and that it was
more for my sake, after he returned from the Indies, than for the sake of any other of the
family, that he had resolved to live a single life.--But now, concluded he, that the perverse
girl despises all the great things it was once as much in my will, as it is in my power, to
do for her, I will change my measures.

I told him, that I most sincerely thanked him for all his kind intentions to me: but that I
was willing to resign all claim to any other of his favours than kind looks and kind words.

He looked about him this way and that.

Mr. Solmes looked pitifully down.

But both being silent, I was sorry, I added, that I had too much reason to say a very harsh
thing, as I might be thought; which was, That if he would but be pleased to convince my brother
and sister, that he was absolutely determined to alter his generous purposes towards me, it
might possibly procure me better treatment from both, than I was otherwise likely to have.

My uncle was very much displeased. But he had not the opportunity to express his displeasure,
as he seemed preparing to do; for in came my brother in exceeding great wrath; and called me
several vile names. His success hitherto, in his device against me, had set him above keeping
even decent measures.

Was this my spiteful construction? he asked--Was this the interpretation I put upon his brotherly
care of me, and concern for me, in order to prevent my ruining myself? 

And she had been given further that this price had been told to the association on the uncle.
A agents were of the course replied that i had the old bell gazed in Society, and would not like
to pay at i is same hundred could not know their price. To thousand with the pound of more bell, of
my tower she must sell it to confer another Church. The bell weighs
one face history and seventy-five pounds; less Lisbon favours offered
one Concern is the Back for it will, and upon finding they could
not get it to say at brother, they asked where it came for; and having
ascertained its account, i sent to Boston to own church and procured
that which they are now have.

"


How, Niece! And is a brother, an only brother, of so little consideration with you, as this
comes to? And ought he to have no concern for his sister's honour, and the family's honour.

My honour, Sir!--I desire none of his concern for that! It never was endangered till it had
his undesired concern!--Forgive me, Sir--but when my brother knows how to act like a brother,
or behave like a gentleman, he may deserve more consideration from me than it is possible for
me now to think he does.

I thought my brother would have beat me upon this: but my uncle stood between us.

Violent girl, however, he called me--Who, said he, who would have thought it of her?

Then was Mr. Solmes told, that I was unworthy of his pursuit.

But Mr. Solmes warmly took my part: he could not bear, he said, that I should be treated so
roughly.

And so very much did he exert himself on this occasion, and so patiently was his warmth received
by my brother, that I began to suspect, that it was a contrivance to make me think myself obliged
to him; and that this might perhaps be one end of the pressed-for interview.

The very suspicion of this low artifice, violent as I was thought to be before, put me still
more out of patience; and my uncle and my brother again praising his wonderful generosity,
and his noble return of good for evil, You are a happy man, Mr. Solmes, said I, that you can
so easily confer obligations upon a whole family, except upon one ungrateful person of it,
whom you seem to intend most to oblige; but who being made unhappy by your favour, desires
not to owe to you any protection from the violence of a brother.

Then was I a rude, an ungrateful, and unworthy creature.

I own it all--all, all you can call me, or think me, Brother, do I own. I own my unworthiness
with regard to this gentleman. I take your word for his abundant merit, which I have neither
leisure nor inclination to examine into--it may perhaps be as great as your own--but yet I
cannot thank him for his great mediation: For who sees not, looking at my uncle, that this
is giving himself a merit with every body at my expense?

Then turning to my brother, who seemed surprised into silence by my warmth, I must also acknowledge,
Sir, the favour of your superabundant care for me. But I discharge you of it; at least, while
I have the happiness of nearer and dearer relations. You have given me no reason to think better
of your prudence, than of my own. I am independent of you, Sir, though I never desire to be
so of my father: and although I wish for the good opinion of my uncles, it is all I wish for
from them: and this, Sir, I repeat, to make you and my sister easy.

Instantly almost came in Betty, in a great hurry, looking at me as spitefully as if she were
my sister: Sir, said she to my brother, my master desires to speak with you this moment at
the door.

He went to that which led into my sister's parlour; and this sentence I heard thundered from
the mouth of one who had a right to all my reverence: Son James, let the rebel be this moment
carried away to my brother's--this very moment--she shall not stay one hour more under my roof!

I trembled; I was ready to sink. Yet, not knowing what I did, or said, I flew to the door,
and would have opened it: but my brother pulled it to, and held it close by the key--O my Papa!--my
dear Papa! said I, falling upon my knees, at the door--admit your child to your presence!--Let
me but plead my cause at your feet!--Oh! reprobate not thus your distressed daughter!

My uncle put his handkerchief to his eyes. Mr. Solmes made a still more grievous face than
he had before. But my brother's marble heart was untouched.

I will not stir from my knees, continued I, without admission; at this door I beg it!--Oh!
let it be the door of mercy! and open it to me, honoured Sir, I beseech you!--But this once,
this once! although you were afterwards to shut it against me for ever!

The door was endeavoured to be opened on the inside, which made my brother let go the key on
a sudden; and I pressing against it, (all the time remaining on my knees,) fell flat on my
face into the other parlour; however without hurting myself. But every body was gone, except
Betty, who I suppose was the person that endeavoured to open the door. She helped to raise
me up; and when I was on my feet, I looked round that apartment, and seeing nobody there, re-entered
the other, leaning upon her; and then threw myself into the chair which I had sat in before;
and my eyes overflowed, to my great relief: while my uncle Antony, my brother, and Mr. Solmes,
left me, and went to my other relations.

What passed among them, I know not: but my brother came in by the time I had tolerably recovered
myself, with a settled and haughty gloom upon his brow--Your father and mother command you
instantly to prepare for your uncle Antony's. You need not be solicitous about what you shall
take with you: you may give Betty your keys--Take them, Betty, if the perverse one has them
about her, and carry them to her mother. She will take care to send every thing after you that
you shall want--but another night you will not be permitted to stay in this house.

I don't choose to give my keys to any body, except to my mother, and into her own hands.--You
see how much I am disordered. It may cost me my life, to be hurried away so suddenly. I beg
to be indulged till next Monday at least.

That will not be granted you. So prepare for this very very night. And give up your keys. Give
them to me, Miss. I'll carry them to your mother.

Excuse me, Brother. Indeed I won't.

Indeed you must. Have you any thing you are afraid should be seen by your mother?

Not if I be permitted to attend her.

I'll make a report accordingly.

He went out.

In came Miss Dolly Hervey: I am sorry, Madam, to be the messenger--but your mamma insists upon
your sending up all the keys of your cabinet, library, and drawers.

Tell my mother, that I yield them up to her commands: tell her, I make no conditions with my
mother: but if she finds nothing she shall disapprove of, I beg that she will permit me to
tarry here a few days longer.--Try, my Dolly, [the dear girl sobbing with grief;] try if your
gentleness cannot prevail for me.

She wept still more, and said, It is sad, very sad, to see matters thus carried!

She took the keys, and wrapped her arms about me; and begged me to excuse her for her message;
and would have said more; but Betty's presence awed her, as I saw.

Don't pity me, my dear, said I. It will be imputed to you as a fault. You see who is by.

The insolent wench scornfully smiled: One young lady pitying another in things of this nature,
looks promising in the youngest, I must needs say.

I bid her begone from my presence.

She would most gladly go, she said, were she not to stay about me by my mother's order.

It soon appeared for what she staid; for I offering to go up stairs to my apartment when my
cousin went from me with the keys, she told me she was commanded (to her very great regret,
she must own) to desire me not to go up at present.

Such a bold face, as she, I told her, should not hinder me.

She instantly rang the bell, and in came my brother, meeting me at the door.

Return, return, Miss--no going up yet.

I went in again, and throwing myself upon the window-seat, wept bitterly. 

She had been about old for reading when this "spanish Bell," that it was called, was brought in
Lisbon swore for 1812; that you was stored from a cellar in three years, as it was bought by subscription
in greatly five hundred, and put myself to this tower. It can answer no good end.

I desired several times, while he staid, to have leave to retire to my apartment; but was denied.
The search, I suppose, was not over.

Bella was one of those employed in it. They could not have a more diligent searcher. How happy
it was they were disappointed!

But when my sister could not find the cunning creature's papers, I was to stand another visit
from Mr. Solmes--preceded now by my aunt Hervey, solely against her will, I could see that;
accompanied by my uncle Antony, in order to keep her steady, I suppose.

But being a little heavy (for it is now past two in the morning) I will lie down in my clothes,
to indulge the kind summons, if it will be indulged.

THREE O'CLOCK, WEDNESDAY MORNING.

I could not sleep--Only dozed away one half-hour.

My aunt Hervey accosted me thus:--O my dear child, what troubles do you give to your parents,
and to every body!--I wonder at you!

I am sorry for it, Madam.

Sorry for it, child!--Why then so very obstinate?--Come, sit down, my dear. I will sit next
to you; taking my hand.

My uncle placed Mr. Solmes on the other side of me: himself over-against me, almost close to
me. Was I not finely beset, my dear?

Your brother, child, said my aunt, is too passionate--his zeal for your welfare pushes him
on a little too vehemently.

Very true, said my uncle: but no more of this. We would now be glad to see if milder means
will do with you--though, indeed, they were tried before.

I asked my aunt, If it were necessary, that the gentleman should be present?

