Some difficulties; youthfulness; struggle against various combinations, my victory; an enemy
made a friend.  Lectures throughout Michigan; main purpose in these; a storm aroused; vigorous
attack upon my politico-economical views; happy results; revenge upon my assailant; discussion
in a County Court House.  Breadth and strength then given to my ideas regarding university
education.  President Tappan.  Henry Simmons Frieze.  Brunnow.  Chief Justice Cooley.  Judge
Campbell.  Distinguishing feature of the University of Michigan in those days.  Dr. Tappan's
good sense in administration; one typical example.  Unworthy treatment of him by the Legislature;
some causes of this.  Opposition to the State University by the small sectarian colleges. 
Dr. Tappan's prophecy to sundry demagogues; its fulfilment.  Sundry defects of his qualities;
the ``Winchell War,'' ``Armed Neutrality.''  Retirement of President Tappan; its painful circumstances;
amends made later by the citizens of Michigan.  The little city of Ann Arbor; origin of its
name.  Recreations, tree planting on the campus; results of this.  Exodus of students into
the Civil War.  Lectures continued after my resignation.  My affectionate relations with the
institution.

PART IV--AS UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT CHAPTER XVII.  EVOLUTION OF ``THE CORNELL IDEA''-- 1850-1865

Development of my ideas on university organization at Hobart College, at Yale, and abroad.
Their further evolution at the University of Michigan.  President Tappan's influence.  My plan
of a university at Syracuse.  Discussions with George William Curtis.  Proposal to Gerrit Smith;
its failure.  A new opportunity opens.

CHAPTER XVIII.  EZRA CORNELL--1864-1874

Ezra Cornell.  My first impressions regarding him.  His public library.  Temporary estrangement
between us; regarding the Land Grant Fund. Our conversation regarding his intended gift.  The
State Agricultural College and the ``People's College''; his final proposal.  Drafting of the
Cornell University Charter.  His foresight.  His views of university education.  Struggle for
the charter in the Legislature; our efforts to overcome the coalition against us; bitter attacks
on him; final struggle in the Assembly, Senate, and before the Board of Regents.  Mr. Cornell's
location of the endowment lands.  He nominates me to the University Presidency. 

I ask myself what will happen to him. Can he die? Anything that dies, previously a kind of goal,
had a kind of activity, which has worn out: that is at Odradek not to. If he so once before about
the feet of my children and grandchildren tumble down the stairs with regrinding twine? It is damaging
to anyone that one; But the idea that he is likely to survive me, I find almost painful.

Eleven sons.

I have eleven sons.

The first is looks very unsightly, but serious and wise, yet I appreciate
it, though I did as a child, like all other love, a not very high.

His thinking seems to me too simple. He does not look right nor left, not into the distance,
in his small circle of thought He is constantly turning around or rather.

The second one is beautiful, slim well built, and it delighted him to see in fencing posture. Also
He is clever, but also worldly wise, and he has seen a lot, and so seems even the domestic nature
are more familiar with him than with those back home. But it is certainly Thanks to this advantage
is not only and not even much traveling, he is rather to the inimitable this child who is recognized
for example by anyone about his often over-hitting and yet quite mastered art wild leap into
the water it wants to imitate. By the end of the springboard enough courage and desire, but instead
there to jump, is suddenly the imitators and raises his arms apologetically. - And despite
all this (I really ought to be happy about such a child) is my money to him clouded by uncertainty.
His left eye is a little smaller than the right and blinks much, only a small error, of course,
who makes his face even more daring than it otherwise would have been, and no one is inaccessible
to the seclusion of his nature this small twinkling eyes noted disapprovingly. I, the father do it. It
is not, of course, this physical error that hurts me, but a small irregularity him somehow appropriate
his mind, any erring poison in his blood, any inability to provide me alone visible investment
of his life to complete round. However, this just makes the other re true to my son, because this
is his fault while the fault of our entire Family and the son only
too clear.

The third son is also nice, but it's not the beauty that I like. It is the beauty of the singer:
the curved mouth, the dreamy eyes, the head of the behind a drapery needs to be effective,
the excessive bowing chest, the slightly colliding and far too easily falling hands, legs,
stand out because they do not can carry. And besides, the tone of his voice is not full; deceptive
for a moment; can sit up the connoisseur, but respired shortly after. - Nevertheless, in general,
all enticed to put this son on display, I think he liked it in secret, Himself does not impose himself,
but not because he knows his shortcomings, but of innocence. He also feels a stranger in our
time, as though he belonged to my family, but also still another,
he forever lost, he is often listless and nothing can cheer him up.

My fourth son is perhaps the friendliest of all. A true child of his time, he is everyone saying
he is at all common ground and everyone is trying to him nod. Maybe by this general recognition
wins his being something light, his movements something free, something his judgments unconcerned.
Some of his sayings repeat it often, but only some, because he suffers in its entirety but again too
great ease. He is like one who keeps coming admirable, equal to swallow the air is divided, but then
in the bleak desert dust ends nothing.

Such thoughts spoil me the sight of this child.

The fifth son is sweet and good; promised much less than he thought, was so insignificant, that
one is literally alone in his presence felt, but it has yet to some respectability brought. They
asked me how this happened, I could hardly answer. Innocence permeates perhaps still most
easily by the fury of the elements in this world, and innocent he is. Maybe too innocent.
Friendly to everyone. Maybe too friendly. I confess: I probably will not if he was praising
me over.

It surely means the Praise to make something too easy, when you praise a praiseworthy as obvious
as It is my son.

My sixth son seems, at least at first glance, the most profound of all. A Head hanging, and yet
a babbler. Therefore, it is not in him easily. Is he on the defeat, he falls into an invincible
sadness, he gains the upper hand, he maintains it through Chatter. But I talk to him a certain
self-forgetful passion does not, in broad Day he fights often by thinking like a dream. Without
being sick - but he has a very good health - he stumbles sometimes, especially at dusk, but takes
no Help is not. Perhaps the cause of this phenomenon grow physically, He is much too big for
his age.

That makes it unattractive as a whole, despite the strikingly beautiful Details, such as the
hands and feet. Only drawback is the way his forehead, both in the skin, as in bone formation somehow
shrunk.

The seventh son of mine, perhaps more than any other. The world did not know how to Celebrating
its special kind of joke she does not understand. I guess it does not, I know he is insignificant
enough, the world would have no other fault than the fact that they did not to appreciates, it would
still be flawless. But within the family, I wanted this son not to miss. Both unrest he brings,
and reverence for tradition, and both he adds, at least to my mind, to become final whole.
This whole white However, he himself the least to do something, the wheel of the future, he is
not rolling bring, but this is so encouraging his investment, so full of hope and I wish he had
Children and those children again. Sorry seems to fulfill this desire
not to do.

In a me though understandable, but equally undesirable self-satisfaction, but stands in great
contrast to the opinion of his environment, he roams about alone, takes care are not girls
and will still never lose his good humor.

My son is my eighth child of sorrow, and I know really no reason for it. He sees at me strange,
and yet I feel paternal closely associated with him. The time has much well done, but before I
was overcome sometimes shake when I was like him. He goes his own way, has severed all relations
with me, and certainly with his hard Skull, his little athletic body - only the legs he had
as a boy rather weak, but that may have been compensated in the meantime - come through wherever
he pleases. I often felt like to call him to ask him how it is actually him why He is the father
so completely in and what he intends, in fact, but now he is so far
and so much time has passed, then it may remain as it is.

I hear that he, as the only one of my sons with a full beard, which is nice for such a small
man, of course, not.

My ninth son is very elegant and is specifically for women sweet look. So sweet that on occasion
he may even tempt me, I know that literally a wet sponge enough to wipe out all these unearthly
glow. What is special about this boy but is much that it was not based on seduction, he would
meet his life long on the couch to lie and wasting his view on the ceiling or even much better
him to rest under the eyelids. Is he then in that his preferred position, says he likes and
not bad, driven and descriptive, but only within narrow limits, is it beyond them, which can not
be avoided in their narrowness, will be completely empty speeches.

One would profusion him if he had been hoping that this sleep-filled glance, it noted could.

My tenth son is regarded as dishonest character. I want this error is not entirely in agreement place,
not quite confirm. What is certain is that whoever it in the far beyond his age Approaching
ceremony, is convinced the frock coat always tightly closed, in the old, but übersorgfältig
polished black hat, with the motionless face, the slightly protruding chin, the hard over his eyes
bulging lids, which sometimes run two fingers to his lips - who we see him thinking: this is a boundless
hypocrite. But now you hear him talk! Sensible; wisely, curtly; durchkreuzend with mischievous
vitality issues, in surprising natural and joyful compliance with the universe, a match which
necessarily the neck tightens and the head can bring. Many who think themselves very clever
and which, for this reason, as they thought, felt repelled by his appearance, has He strongly attracted
by his word. But there are some people who are indifferent appearance leaves, but which appears
to be word hypocritical. I, as a father wants to decide not here but I must admit that the
last evaluation are certainly noteworthy as the former.

My eleventh son is tender, probably the weakest among my sons, but deceptive in its Weakness,
and may in fact be at times strong and determined, but is, however, even the weakness somehow fundamentally.
It is not a shameful weakness, but something that our only on this ground appears as a weakness.
If not, for example, flight readiness Weakness, since it is wavering and vagueness and flutter
after all? Something like that shows my son. The father is pleased, of course, such properties
do not, they walk just to seem Destruction of the family. Sometimes he looks at me as if to say:
"I will take you, Father, "Then I think: '. you were the last to
trust me" and being.

Glance back to say: "I love therefore be at least the last".

These are the eleven sons.

A brother of murder.

It is proven that the murder was carried out as follows:

Schmar, the murderer, stood against nine clock in the evening in the moonlight on that street
corner on where Wese turn, the victim out of the alley, which was in his office, in those street
had, in which he lived.

Cold, each durchschauernde night air.

But Schmar only a thin blue dress had been made; her skirt was unbuttoned. He felt no cold, and he
was constantly in motion. His weapon, half mount, half kitchen knife, he was completely exposed
always under control.

Looked at the knife against the moonlight, flashed the blade, not enough for Schmar; He slammed
her against the bricks of the pavement that there was sparks, maybe
regretted it; and to make good the damage, he stroked her violin-like
bow on his boot sole, while standing on one leg, leaning forward simultaneously
to the sound of the knife at his Boots, while listening to the fateful
alley.

Why would tolerate all the private Pallas, in the vicinity of his window on the second floor watching
everything?

Fathom human nature! With the collar turned up, the dressing gown to the vast body girt, shaking
his head, he looked down.

And five doors down, diagonally across from him, saw Mrs. Wese, the fox fur coat over her nightgown,
after her husband out, who hesitated for an unusually long time now.

At last the door bell rings before Weses Bureau to out loud for a door bell, about the city, to
heaven, and Wese, the industrious night workers, there occurs, in this street still invisible, only
by the bell announced from the house, like the patch is one of his
slow Steps.

Pallas leans far forward, and be allowed to miss anything. Mrs. Wese reassured by the bell jingling
her window.

Schmar but kneels down, so he offers no other Pelts has, he expresses only his face and hands against
the stones, where everything freezes, ignite Schmar.

Just on the border that divides the lanes, is Wese stand supported only with the stick he was
otherworldly in the alley. A whim. The night sky has attracted him to the dark blue and Golden.
Ignorant, he looks at it, unaware he strokes her hair under the gelüpften Hat, nothing moves
there along the top to give it the immediate future view, everything
remains at its absurd, inscrutable place.

In and of itself very reasonable that Wese continues But he goes to the diameter of the Schmar.

»Wese," cries Schmar, standing on tiptoe, his arm stretched out, dropping
the knife sharp, »Wese!

Waiting in vain Julia! "And right in the neck and left in the throat and a third deep Schmar
stabs in the abdomen. Water rats slit to give a similar sound at all as Wese.

"Done," says Schmar and raises the knife, the bloody unnecessary ballast, with the next Home
front. "Bliss of murder!

Relief Beflügelung by the flow of foreign Blood!

Wese old nightshade, friend, comrade versickerst beer Bank, in the
dark road surface.

Why did not you just a bubble filled with blood that I sat down on you and you disappear completely.
Not everything is settled, not all flowers matured dreams, your severe rest is here already reach
every kick. What is the dumb question you to notice? "

Pallas, all the poison by choking each other is in his body, in its double-wing young jumping
Door. »Schmar! Schmar! All notices to overlook anything. "Pallas and Schmar another check. Pallas's
satisfied Schmar comes to no end.

Wese woman with a crowd rushes to her two sides with terror all aged Brought face. The fur opens,
it crashes on Wese, the nightgown clad body heard him, heard about the couple, like the grass of
a grave fur closing the set.

Schmar, with difficulty, the last bite nausea, mouth to the shoulder of the policeman pressed,
which leads him lightly.

A dream.

Josef K. dreamed:

It was a beautiful day and K. wanted to go for a walk. But scarcely had he taken two steps he
was already in the cemetery. They were there very artificial, impractical, winding paths,
but He glided over such a way as to a torrent of water floating in unshaken Attitude. Even
from afar he made a freshly dug grave mound in the eye, at the He wanted to make a stop. This
grave mound practiced almost a temptation on him and he believed impossible to get there piece enough.
Sometimes, however, he saw the little grave mound, he was it obscured by flags, their clothes were
writhing and beating each other with great force; you could see the flag-bearer, but it was as much
jubilation prevailed there.

While he had his eyes still in the distance, he suddenly saw the same hill grave beside him
on the way, almost already gone. He hurriedly jumped into the grass. Since the path under his
coming off foot raged on, he tottered and fell right in front of the grave mound in the knee.
Two Men stood behind the grave, holding between them a grave stone in the air, hardly K. was
released, they found the stone in the ground and he stood as if bricked. Buy stepped out from
behind a bush, a third man K. immediately recognized as an artist. He was wearing only shorts
and an ill-buttoned shirt, and on his head he had a velvet cap, in his hand he held an ordinary
pencil, with which it already when you get closer Figures in the air described.

With the pencil he was now at the top of the stone, the stone was very high, he had do not
even bend over, but he had to lean forward, as the grave, on which he is not wanted to connect,
separated him from the stone. So he stood on tiptoe and leaned with the left hand on the surface
of the stone. By a very skilful handling he managed to achieve with ordinary pencil gold letters,
he wrote: "Here rests - "Each letter appeared pure and beautiful, deeply carved and in perfect
gold. As he had written the two words, he looked back to K., K., who is very eager for the progression
the inscription was cared little about the man, but only looked at the stone. In fact, The man
sat back on to continue writing, but he could not, there was some obstacle, he dropped the pencil
and turned back to K.. Now the artist saw K. , and realized that this was in great embarrassment,
but said the cause of which could not. All of his former vivacity
was gone.

K. also ran in this embarrassment; they exchanged helpless glances,
before it was an ugly misunderstanding that dissolve any could.

Out of season now also started a small bell to ring from the grave
chapel, but the Artist waving his raised hand and she stopped.

After a while she began again, this time very quietly and without
special request, just breaking off, it was as they would only check
their sound.

K. was heartbroken about the situation of the artist, he began to cry and sobbed long into the
pre-held hands.

The artist waited until the K. had calmed down, and then decided,
since he found no other way out but to continue writing. The first
small stroke that he made was a relief for K., the artist took him
but apparently only with the utmost reluctance adopted and the writing
was no longer so beautiful, above all, it seemed to be missing in
gold, pale and uncertain dragged on the line, very large, the letter.
It was a J, it was almost stopped because of the stamped Angry artist
with one foot in the grave mound in, that the earth was flying around
in the air. K. finally understood him, it was not time to ask, with
all fingers he dug into the Earth, which almost no resistance, all
seemed ready, only to slip was a thin crust erected, like her behind
opened with steep walls of a large Hole in the K, from a gentle flow
turned his back on sank. But while he down, raised his head in my
neck yet, already recorded by the impenetrable depths was chased up
his name with huge ornaments of the stone.

Delighted by the sight
he awoke.

A Report to an Academy.

High Lords of the Academy!

You
do me the honor to invite me to the Academy a report on my simian
Antecedents submitted.

In that sense, I can not fail to comply with
the request.
The better side of France.  Talk with M. de Lesseps.  The salon of Madame Edmond Adam.  <E'>mile
de Girardin.  My recollections of Alexander Dumas.  Sainte-Beuve.  Visit to Nice.  Young Leland
Stanford.  Visit to Florence.  Ubaldino Peruzzi.  Professor Villari.  A reproof from a Harvard
professor.  Minghetti.  Emperor Frederick III; his visit to the American Fisheries Exposition;
the Americans win the prize.  Interest of the Prince in everything American.  Kindness and
heartiness of the Emperor William I; his interest in Bancroft; my final interview with him.
Farewell dinner to me by my Berlin friends.

CHAPTER XXXII.  MY RECOLLECTIONS OF BISMARCK--1879-1881

My first sight of him.  First interview with him.  His feeling toward German-Americans.  His
conversation on American questions. A family dinner at his house.  His discussion of various
subjects; his opinions of Thiers and others, conversation on travel; his opinions of England
and Englishmen; curious reminiscences of his own life; kindly recollections of Bancroft, Bayard
Taylor, and Motley.  Visit to him with William D. Kelly; our walk and talk in the garden. 
Bismarck's view of financial questions.  Mr. Kelly's letter to the American papers; its effect
in Germany. Bismarck's diplomatic dinners; part taken in them by the Reichshunde.  The Rudhardt
episode.  Scene in the Prussian House of Lords.  Bismarck's treatment of Lasker; his rejection
of our Congressional Resolutions.  Usual absence of Bismarck from Court.  Reasons for it. 
Festivities at the marriage of the present Emperor William.  A Fackeltanz.  Bismarck's fits
of despondency; remark by Gneist. Gneist's story illustrating Bismarck's drinking habits. 
Difficulties in German-American ``military cases'' after Baron von B<u:>low's death.  A serious
crisis.  Bismarck's mingled severity and kindness.  His unyielding attitude toward Russia.
Question between us regarding German interference in South America.  My citations from Washington's
Farewell Address and John Quincy Adams's despatches.  Bismarck's appearance in Parliament.
His mode of speaking.  Contrast of his speeches with those of Moltke and Windthorst.  Beauty
of his family life.  My last view of him.

LIST OF PORTRAITS OF THE AUTHOR

VOLUME I

ITHACA, 1905                 Photograph by Robinson, Ithaca

SARATOGA, 1842               From a daguerreotype

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, 1878     Photograph by Sarony, New York

VOLUME II

THE HAGUE, 1899             Photograph by Zimmermans, The Hague

OXFORD, 1902                Photograph by Robinson, Ithaca

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ANDREW DICKSON WHITE

PART I ENVIRONMENT AND EDUCATION

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF ANDREW DICKSON WHITE

CHAPTER I

BOYHOOD IN CENTRAL NEW YORK--1832-1850

At the close of the Revolution which separated the colonies from the mother country, the legislature
of New York set apart nearly two million acres of land, in the heart of the State, as bounty
to be divided among her soldiers who had taken part in the war; and this ``Military Tract,''
having been duly divided into townships, an ill- inspired official, in lack of names for so
many divisions, sprinkled over the whole region the contents of his classical dictionary. Rosa, in many shades, dark in the Depth, brighter
on the edges, delicately grained, with uneven patches of blood, open like a mine above ground.
So from a distance. Close shows up a complication. Who can see this without whistling softly? Worms,
as thick and long as my little finger the same, own rosy and also spattered with blood, writhing,
held inside the wound, with white bodies with many legs to light. Poor boy, you is not helping. I have
found out your great wound; this flower in your hand, you are dying. The Family is happy, she
sees me doing something that's sister says her mother, the mother the father, the father of
some of the guests, the balancing on tiptoe, arms outstretched, enter through the moonlight of
the open door. "Will you save me?" Whispered sobbing the boy, quite blinded by life in his wound. So
people are in my area. Always the impossible from the doctor. The old faith they have lost, the
pastor sitting at home and teased the vestments, one after the other: but the doctor is everything
do with his delicate surgeon's hand. Well, as one pleases: I have not offered; use me for
holy purposes, I let happen to me as well, what I want , An old country doctor, my maid robbed!
 When I think about the way Plato but I will better meet and wonder
less about the fact that he has disdained, for those people any laws adopting a law based on uniform
distribution of resources among all reject.
  Enough for me
to know that my yeomen ancestors did their duty in war and peace, were honest, straightforward,
God-fearing men and women, who owned their own lands, and never knew what it was to cringe
before any human being. I had almost given up hope, because we are waiting indefinitely for you; My mother has been
waiting and their mother, and all their mothers for up to mother all jackals. Believe it! "

"That
surprised me," I said, forgetting to light the pile, which was willing
to work with his Smoke to keep the jackals, "I'm surprised to hear
a lot.

I just happen to come from the far north and I realized on a short trip. What do you want, jackals?
"

And, as encouraged by this perhaps too friendly encouragement they drew their circle close
to me, and all breathed short and roaring.

"We know," began the elder, "that you do from the north, it just builds up our hope. There is the
mind that is not found among the Arabs. From this cold arrogance, you know, is no spark to
build understanding.

They kill animals to eat them, and carrion disregard them. "

"Do not talk so loud," I said, "it sleep Arabs in the area."

"You're really a stranger," the Jackal, "told you otherwise, knew that never in the World history
a jackal has feared an Arab. We should fear? Is not it Misfortune enough that we have failed
in such a people?

"

May be, "might be," I said, "I measured not grade me in things that lie to me so far; It seems
a very old dispute, is therefore probably in the blood, is thus perhaps
only with the Bleeding. "

"You're very clever," said the old jackal, and all were breathing faster, and with agitated Lungs,
although they were standing still, a bitter, occasionally with clamped together Teeth tolerable
odor emanated from the open mouths, "you are so clever, what you say, corresponds to our ancient
teachings. We take them so their blood and the dispute is over.

"

'Oh said, "I wilder than I wanted," they will defend themselves, they are with their guns pack as
you shoot. "

"You misunderstand us," he said, "to human species, which are therefore also not in the high north
loses. We will not kill them yet. So much water would have the Nile did not order us to clean With
substance. We are running but already at the mere sight of their
living body, in purer Air, in the desert, which is why our country.
"

And all the jackals around, which now many had come from afar,
lowered the heads between the front legs and cleaned them with their
paws, it was when they wanted an aversion hide that was so terrible
that I prefer having a high jump had fled from their circle.

"What
do you intend to do so, I asked and wanted to get up, but I could
not; two young animals behind me had been bitten in a skirt and shirt,
and I had to remain seated. "You keep your train," said the old jackal-explanatory
and serious, "an homage." "You should let me go," I said, now to the
old, now turning to the boy.  This
school had been speedily developed into Cortland Academy, which soon became fa- mous throughout
all that region, and, as a boy of five or six years of age, I was very proud to read on the
corner- stone of the Academy building my grandfather's name among those of the original founders.

Not unlikely there thus came into my blood the strain which has led me ever since to feel that
the building up of goodly institutions is more honorable than any other work,--an idea which
was at the bottom of my efforts in developing the University of Michigan, and in founding Cornell
University.

To Cortland Academy students came from far and near; and it soon began sending young men into
the foremost places of State and Church.  At an early day, too, it began receiving young women
and sending them forth to become the best of matrons. Just not with uplifted Poor
stand still, pressed against a chest wall.

Today I see clearly: without the greatest peace of mind I would never be able to escape. And actually
perhaps I owe all that I've become, the calm that me after the first
few days there came over the ship.

The calm again but I probably owed the people of the ship.

There are good people, despite everything. I fondly remember today the sound of their heavy Steps
that echoed back in my half sleep. They had the habit, all very slow to be addressed. is one of
them wanted to rub his eyes, he raised his hand like a Hanging weight. Your jokes were coarse, but
warm. Her laugh was always dangerous with a sounding cough but nothing major mixed. She always
had something in his mouth for spitting ausspieen them and where they did not care. She always
complained that my fleas on them skip, but yet they were so I never really angry, they did just
that thrive in my fur and fleas that fleas Springer, so they were off. If they were off duty,
sat down a few times in a half circle down to me, hardly spoke, but cooed to each other only,
smoked, stretched out on crates, pipe, fought his knee as soon as I made the slightest movement,
and now and then took a stick and tickled me where it was pleasant to me. Should I be invited
today to a ride participate on that ship, I would certainly reject the invitation, but it is equally
certain, that it is not just ugly memories, which I could then indulge in the steerage.

The rest I bought myself among these people, gave me most of any attempt to escape from. Viewed
from today, it seems to me that I would at least have suspected that I have a way out must
find, if I wanted to live that way but this can not be reached by
flight was.  To this I was taken, when about
three years old, for a reason which may strike the present generation as curious.  The colored
servant who had charge of me wished to learn to read--so she slipped into the school and took
me with her.  As a result, though my memory runs back distinctly to events near the beginning
of my fourth year, it holds not the faintest recollection of a time when I could not read easily.
The only studies which I recall with distinctness, as carried on before my seventh year, are
arithmetic and geography. However, I would also like the fact not attach little weight, that they
had heard that Christ had on the community life of his disciples favor found and it was at the meetings
of the true Christians still today common tags. Of what relevance could that be now have been,
at least not a few came to our Leaving faith and be baptized with the holy water. Unfortunately,
four of us - only so many we were, as two had died - not a priest. As a result, have the Utopians,
when they are opened in the rest, but to this day to the enjoyment of Dispense sacraments,
because they donate to us only the priests are allowed. Yet they have their about its value
and meaning are clearly and have no ardent desire, yea, they already discuss vividly the question
whether, even without an order of the Pope of Christendom from its rows can be selected and appointed
a priest. And it seemed as if they had the intention to choose one, but when I left was not
yet done so.

Even those who do not know anything about Christianity do, but no one alienated and allow anyone
to enter through, unmolested. Only one was from our community during I was there arrested. As a
neophyte, he was talking, though we him from dealing publicly about the worship of Christ
with more zeal than wisdom.

