"Have I not felt it from the beginning?" asked Ralph. They chose a chief, the abbot (the word
signifies in Syriac "father"), and they implicitly rented him. Official relates that friends
in one community in Egypt he had seen the abbot before the refectory give a cenobite a blow on the
head to try his obedience. It was beautiful; it was wonderful!"

"What are mothers for, but to do just that, and more than all, for the motherless boys?"

"Well, I may never again have the courage to say it, so just believe me when I say your influence
will be the turning-point in my life. I will never, so help me God, do anything to make me
unworthy to sit in this fireglow! So long as I have brains and hands to work with, I will keep
striving to create another home like this when my time comes. Any girl that takes me will get
a better husband because of you; any children I may be blessed with will have a better father
because I have known you. Don't make any mistake, dear Mrs. Carey, your hearth fire glows a
long, long distance!"

Mother Carey was moved to the very heart. She leaned forward and took Ralph Thurston's young
face, thin with privation and study, in her two hands. He bent his head instinctively, partly
to hide the tears that had sprung to his eyes, and she kissed his forehead simply and tenderly.
He was at her knees on the hearth rug in an instant; all his boyish affection laid at her feet;
all his youthful chivalry kindled at the honor of her touch.

And there are women in the world who do not care about being mothers!

XXXI

GROOVES OF CHANGE

The winter passed. The snow gradually melted in the meadows and the fields, which first grew
brown and then displayed patches of green here and there where the sun fell strongest. There
was deep, sticky mud in the roads, and the discouraged farmers urged their horses along with
the wheels of their wagons sunk to the hub in ooze. Then there were wet days, the wind ruffling
the leaden surface of the river, the sound of the rain dripping from the bare tree-boughs,
the smell of the wet grass and the clean, thirsty soil. Milder weather came, then blustery
days, then chill damp ones, but steadily life grew, here, there, everywhere, and the ever-new
miracle of the awakening earth took place once again. Sap mounted in the trees, blood coursed
in the children's veins, mothers began giving herb tea and sulphur and molasses, young human
nature was restless; the whole creation throbbed and sighed, and was tremulous, and had growing
pains.

April passed, with all its varying moods of sun and shower, and settled weather came.

  All the earth was gay.
    Land and sea
  Gave themselves up to jollity
    And with the heart of May
  Did every Beast keep holiday.

The Carey girls had never heard of "the joy of living" as a phrase, but oh! they knew a deal
about it in these first two heavenly springs in little Beulah village! The sunrise was so wonderful;
the trees and grass so marvellously green; the wild flowers so beautiful! Then the river on
clear days, the glimpse of the sea from Beulah's hill tops, the walks in the pine woods,--could
Paradise show anything to compare?

And how good the food tasted; and the books they read, how fresh, how moving, how glorious!
Then when the happy day was over, sleep came without pause or effort the moment the flushed
cheek touched the cool pillow.

"I was fifteen and a half last spring, and now, though it is only a year ago, everything is
different!" she mused. "When did it get to be different, I wonder? It never was all at once,
so it must have been a little every day, so little that I hardly noticed it until just now."

A young girl's heart is ever yearning for and trembling at the future. In its innocent depths
the things that are to be are sometimes rustling and whispering secrets, and sometimes keeping
an exquisite, haunting silence. In the midst of the mystery the solemn young creature is sighing
to herself, "What am I meant for? Am I everything? Am I nothing? Must I wait till my future
comes to me, or must I seek it?"

This was all like the sound of a still, small voice in Nancy's mind, but it meant that she
was "growing up," taking hold on life at more points than before, seeing new visions, dreaming
new dreams. Kathleen and Julia seemed ridiculously young to her. She longed to advise them,
but her sense of humor luckily kept her silent. Gilbert appeared crude, raw; promising, but
undeveloped; she hated to think how much experience he would have to pass through before he
could see existence as it really was, and as she herself saw it. Olive's older view of things,
her sad, strange outlook upon life, her dislike of anything in the shape of man, her melancholy
aversion to her father, all this fascinated and puzzled Nancy, whose impetuous nature ran out
to every living thing, revelling in the very act of loving, so long as she did not meet rebuff.

Cyril perplexed her. Silent, unresponsive, shy, she would sometimes raise her eyes from her
book in school and find him gazing steadily at her like a timid deer drinking thirstily at
a spring. Nancy did not like Cyril, but she pitied him and was as friendly with him, in her
offhand, boyish fashion, as she was with every one.

The last days of the academy term were close at hand, and the air was full of graduation exercises
and white muslin and ribbon sashes. June brought two surprises to the Yellow House. One morning
Kathleen burst into Nancy's room with the news: "Nancy! The Fergusons offer to adopt Judy,
and she doesn't want to go. Think of that! But she's afraid to ask mother if she can stay. Each
province became an it; the bishop of the uppercase (metropolis) became
the metropolitan, or as he there was later termed, any archbishop.=
The Councils.=-- In this period began the assembly, the great assemblies
of the church. Why didn't the Fergusons adopt her before mother had made her over?"

"Yes," chimed in Kathleen. "Then everybody would have been glad, but now we shall miss her!
Think of missing Judy! We would never have believed it!"

"It's like seeing how a book turns out, to watch her priggishness and smuggishness all melting
away," Nancy said. "I shouldn't like to see her slip back into the old Judyisms, and neither
would mother. Mother'll probably keep her, for I know Mr. Manson thinks it's only a matter
of a few months before Uncle Allan dies."

"And mother wouldn't want a Carey to grow up into an imitation Gladys Ferguson; but that's
what Judy would be, in course of time."

Julia took Mrs. Ferguson's letter herself to her Aunt Margaret, showing many signs of perturbation
in her usually tranquil face.

Mrs. Carey read it through carefully. "It is a very kind, generous offer, Julia. Your father
cannot be consulted about it, so you must decide. You would have every luxury, and your life
would be full of change and pleasure; while with us it must be, in the nature of things, busy
and frugal for a long time to come."

"But I am one more to feed and clothe, Aunt Margaret, and there is so little money!"

"I know, but you are one more to help, after all. The days are soon coming when Nancy and Gilbert
will be out in the world, helping themselves. You and Kathleen could stay with Peter and me,
awaiting your turn. It doesn't look attractive in comparison with what the Fergusons offer you!"

Then the gentle little rivers that had been swelling all the past year in Julia's heart, rivers
of tenderness and gratitude and sympathy, suddenly overflowed their banks and, running hither
and thither, softened everything with which they came in contact. Rocky places melted, barren
spots waked into life, and under the impulse of a new mood that she scarcely understood Julia
cried, "Oh! dear Aunt Margaret, keep me, keep me! This is home; I never want to leave it! I
want to be one of Mother Carey's chickens!"

The child had flung herself into the arms that never failed anybody, and with tears streaming
down her cheeks made her plea.

"There, there, Judy dear; you are one of us, and we could not let you go unless you were to
gain something by it. If you really want to stay we shall love you all the better, and you
will belong to us more than you ever did; so dry your eyes, or you will be somebody's duckling
instead of my chicken!"

The next surprise was a visit from Cousin Ann Chadwick, who drove up to the door one morning
quite unannounced, and asked the driver of the depot wagon to bring over her two trunks immediately.

"Two trunks!" groaned Gilbert. "That means the whole season!"

But it meant nothing of the kind; it meant pretty white dresses for the three girls, two pairs
of stockings and two of gloves for the whole family, a pattern of black silk for Mrs. Carey,
and numberless small things to which the Carey wardrobe had long been a stranger.

Having bestowed these offerings rather grimly, as was her wont, and having received the family's
grateful acknowledgments with her usual lack of grace, she proceeded in the course of a few
days to make herself far more disagreeable than had been the case on any previous visit of
her life. She had never seen such dusty roads as in Beulah; so many mosquitoes and flies; such
tough meat; such a lack of fruit, such talkative, over-familiar neighbors, such a dull minister,
such an inattentive doctor, such extortionate tradesmen.

"What shall we do with Cousin Ann!" exclaimed Mrs. Carey to Nancy in despair. "She makes us
these generous presents, yet she cannot possibly have any affection for us. We accept them
without any affection for her, because we hardly know how to avoid it. The whole situation
is positively degrading! I have borne it for years because she was good to your father when
he was a boy, but now that she has grown so much more difficult I really think I must talk
openly with her."

"She talked openly enough with me when I confessed that Gilbert and I had dropped and broken
the Dirty Boy!" said Nancy, "and she has been very cross with me ever since."

"Cousin Ann," said Mrs. Carey that afternoon on the piazza, "it is very easy to see that you
do not approve of the way we live, or the way we think about things in general. Feeling as
you do, I really wish you would not spend your money on us, and give us these beautiful and
expensive presents. It puts me under an obligation that chafes me and makes me unhappy."

"I don't disapprove of you, particularly," said Miss Chadwick. "Do I act as if I did?"

"Your manner seems to suggest it."

"You can't tell much by manners," replied Cousin Ann. "I think you're entirely too soft and
sentimental, but we all have our faults. I don't think you have any right to feed the neighbors
and burn up fuel and oil in their behalf when you haven't got enough for your own family. I
think you oughtn't to have had four children, and having had them you needn't have taken another
one in, though she's turned out better than I expected. But all that is none of my business,
I suppose, and, wrong-headed as you are, I like you better than most folks, which isn't saying
much."

"But if you don't share my way of thinking, why do you keep fretting yourself to come and see
us? It only annoys you."

"It annoys me, but I can't help coming, somehow. I guess I hate other places and other ways
worse than I do yours. You don't grudge me bed and board, I suppose?"

"How could I grudge you anything when you give us so much,--so much more than we ought to accept,
so much more than we can ever thank you for?"

"I don't want to be thanked; you know that well enough; but there's so much demonstration in
your family you can't understand anybody's keeping themselves exclusive. I don't like to fuss
over people or have them fuss over me. Kissing comes as easy to you as eating, but I never
could abide it. A nasty, common habit, I call it! I want to give what I like and where and
when I like, and act as I'm a mind to afterwards. I don't give because I see things are needed,
but because I can't spend my income unless I do give. If I could have my way I'd buy you a
good house in Buffalo, right side of mine; take your beggarly little income and manage it for
you; build a six-foot barbed wire fence round the lot so 't the neighbors couldn't get in and
eat you out of house and home, and in a couple of years I could make something out of your family!"

Mrs. Carey put down her sewing, leaned her head back against the crimson rambler, and laughed
till the welkin rang.

"I suppose you think I'm crazy?" Cousin Ann remarked after a moment's pause.

"I don't know, Cousin Ann," said Mrs. Carey, taking up her work again. "Whatever it is, you
can't help it! If you'll give up trying to understand my point of view, I won't meddle with yours!"

"I suppose you won't come to Buffalo?"

"No indeed, thank you, Cousin Ann!"

"You'll stay here, in this benighted village, and grow old,--you that are a handsome woman
of forty and might have a millionaire husband to take care of you?"

"My husband had money enough to please me, and when I meet him again and show him the four
children, he will be the richest man in Paradise."

Cousin Ann rose. "I'm going to-morrow, and I shan't be back this year. I've taken passage on
a steamer that's leaving for Liverpool next week!"

"Going abroad! Alone, Cousin Ann?"

"No, with a party of Cook's tourists."

"What a strange idea!" exclaimed Mrs. Carey.

"I don't see why; 'most everybody's been abroad. I don't expect to like the way they live over
there, but if other folks can stand it, I guess I can. It'll amuse me for a spell, maybe, and
if it don't, I've got money enough to break away and do as I'm a mind to."

The last evening was a pleasant, friendly one, every Carey doing his or her best to avoid risky
subjects and to be as agreeable as possible. Cousin Ann Chadwick left next day, and Mrs. Carey,
bidding the strange creature good-bye, was almost sorry that she had ever had any arguments
with her.

"It will be so long before I see you again, Cousin Ann, I was on the point of kissing you,--till
I remembered!" she said with a smile as she stood at the gate.

"I don't know as I mind, for once," said Miss Chadwick. "If anybody's got to kiss me I'd rather
it would be you than anybody!"

She drove away, her two empty trunks in the back of the wagon. She sailed for Liverpool the
next week and accompanied her chosen party to the cathedral towns of England. There, in a quiet
corner of York Minster, as the boy choir was chanting its anthems, her heart, an organ she
had never been conscious of possessing, gave one brief sudden physical pang and she passed
out of what she had called life. I and already St. Anthony were about assembled to and many anchorites
who gave me their obedience. St. Fellow (272-348) in this way assembled 3,000. Their establishment
drew at Tabenna, near the cataract of the Nile. He founded many religious single communities, either
of women or women. In a traveller it said he had seen in a city of Egypt 10,000 monks and 20,000
vowed to a similar life.

There were more of i in Carey, in Palestine, in all the Orient.
Had they known, they might almost have been disappointed, for the spur of need was already
pricking them, and their valiant young spirits longed to be in the thick of the fray. Plans
had been formed for the past week, many of them in secret, and the very next day after the
close of the academy, various business projects would burst upon a waiting world. One Sunday
night Mother Carey had read to the little group a poem in which there was a verse that struck
on their ears with a fine spirit:--

  "And all the bars at which we fret,
  That seem to prison and control,
  Are but the doors of daring set
  Ajar before the soul."

They recited it over and over to themselves afterwards, and two or three of them wrote it down
and pinned it to the wall, or tucked it in the frame of the looking glass.

Olive Lord knocked at her father's study door the morning of the twenty-first of June. Walking
in quietly she said, "Father, yesterday was my seventeenth birthday. Mother left me a letter
to read on that day, telling me that I should have fifty dollars a month of my own when I was
seventeen, Cyril to have as much when he is the same age."

"If you had waited courteously and patiently for a few days you would have heard this from
me," her father answered.

"I couldn't be sure!" Olive replied. "You never did notice a birthday; why should you begin now?"

"I have more important matters to take up my mind than the consideration of trivial dates,"
her father answered. "You know that very well, and you know too, that notwithstanding my absorbing
labors, I have endeavored for the last few months to give more of my time to you and Cyril."

"I realize that, or I should not speak to you at all," said Olive. "It is because you have
shown a little interest in us lately that I consult you. I want to go at once to Boston to
study painting. I will deny myself everything else, if necessary, but I will go, and I will
study! It is the only life I care for, the only life I am likely to have, and I am determined
to lead it."

"You must see that you are too young to start out for yourself anywhere; it is simply impossible."

"I shall not be alone. Mrs. Carey will find me a good home in Charlestown, with friends of
hers. You trust her judgment, if no one else's."

"If she is charitable enough to conduct your foolish enterprises as well as those of her own
children, I have nothing to say. I have talked with her frequently, and she knows that as soon
as I have finished my last volume I shall be able to take a more active interest in your affairs
and Cyril's."

"Then may I go?"

"When I hear from the person in Charlestown, yes. There is an expedition starting for South
America in a few months and I have been asked to accompany the party. If you are determined
to leave home I shall be free to accept the invitation. Perhaps Mrs. Carey would allow Cyril
to stay with her during my absence."

"I dare say, and I advise you to go to South America by all means; you will be no farther away
from your family than you have always been!" With this parting shot Olive Lord closed the study
door behind her.

"That girl has the most unpleasant disposition, and the sharpest tongue, I ever met in the
course of my life!" said Henry Lord to himself as he turned to his task.

Mother Carey's magic was working very slowly in his blood. It had roused him a little from
the bottomless pit of his selfishness, but much mischief had been done on all sides, and it
would be a work of time before matters could be materially mended. Olive's nature was already
warped and embittered, and it would require a deal of sunshine to make a plant bloom that had
been so dwarfed by neglect and indifference.

Nancy's door of daring opened into an editorial office. An hour here, an hour there, when the
Yellow House was asleep, had brought about a story that was on its way to a distant city. It
was written, with incredible care, on one side of the paper only; it enclosed a fully stamped
envelope for a reply or a return of the manuscript, and all day long Nancy, trembling between
hope and despair, went about hugging her first secret to her heart.

Gilbert had opened his own particular door, and if it entailed no more daring than that of
Nancy's effort, it required twice the amount of self-sacrifice. He was to be, from June twenty-seventh
till August twenty-seventh, Bill Harmon's post-office clerk and delivery boy, and the first
that the family would know about it would be his arrival at the back door, in a linen jacket,
with an order-book in his hand. Bravo, Gilly! One can see your heels disappearing over the
top of Shiny Wall!

The door of daring just ready to be opened by Kathleen and Julia was of a truly dramatic and
unexpected character.

Printed in plain letters, twenty-five circulars reposed in the folds of Julia's nightdresses
in her lower bureau drawer. The last thing to be done at night and the first in the morning
was the stealthy, whispered reading of one of these documents, lest even after the hundredth
time, something wrong should suddenly appear to the eye or ear. They were addressed, they were
stamped, and they would be posted to twenty-five families in the neighborhood on the closing
day of the academy.

                      SUMMER VACATION SCHOOL

  The Misses Kathleen and Julia Carey announce the opening of
  classes for private instruction on July 1st, from two to four
  o'clock daily in the

                         Hamilton Barn.

                            Faculty.

  Miss Kathleen Carey    Reading & Elocution               2 P.M.
  Miss Julia Carey       Dancing, Embroidery            2-30 P.M.
  Mrs. Peter Carey       Vocal Music, Part Singing         3 P.M.
  Miss Nancy Carey       Composition                       4 P.M.
  Mr. Gilbert Carey      Wood carving, Jig Sawing, Manual
                         Training from 4 to 5 Fridays only.

                 Terms cash. 25 cents a week.

  N. B. Children prepared for entrance to the academy at special prices.

Meantime the Honorable Lemuel Hamilton had come to America, and was opening doors of daring
at such a rate of speed that he hardly realized the extent of his own courage and what it involved.
He accepted an official position of considerable honor and distinction in Washington, rented
a house there, and cabled his wife and younger daughter to come over in September. The Officials.=-- the officials
often became very numerous. Diocletian found the provinces too aquitaine and so made several
divisions of them. For gaul, about room, Lugdunensis (the province
in Lyons) was partitioned into four, large into three. ("It's eleven years since we had a Christmas tree," he added, "and the first thing
you know we shall have lost the habit!")

To his son Jack in Texas he expressed himself as so encouraged by the last business statement,
which showed a decided turn for the better, that he was willing to add a thousand dollars to
the capital and irrigate some more of the unimproved land on the ranch.

"If Jack has really got hold out there, he can come home every two or three years," he thought.
"Well, perhaps I shall succeed in getting part of them together, part of the time, if I work
hard enough; all but Tom, whom I care most about! Now that everything is in train I'll take
a little vacation myself, and go down to Beulah to make the acquaintance of those Careys. If
I had ever contemplated returning to America I suppose I shouldn't have allowed them to settle
down in the old house, still, Eleanor would never have been content to pass her summers there,
so perhaps it is just as well."

The Peter-bird was too young to greatly dare; still it ought perhaps to be set down that he
sold three dozen marbles and a new kite to Billy Harmon that summer, and bought his mother
a birthday present with the money. All Peter's "doors of daring" had hitherto opened into places
from which he issued weeping, with sprained ankles, bruised hands, skinned knees or burned
eyelashes.

XXXIII

MOTHER HAMILTON'S BIRTHDAY

It was the Fourth of July; a hot, still day when one could fairly see the green peas swelling
in their pods and the string beans climbing their poles like acrobats! Young Beulah had rung
the church bell at midnight, cast its torpedoes to earth in the early morning, flung its fire-crackers
under the horses' feet, and felt somewhat relieved of its superfluous patriotism by breakfast
time. Then there was a parade of Antiques and Horribles, accompanied by the Beulah Band, which,
though not as antique, was fully as horrible as anything in the procession.

From that time on, the day had been somnolent, enlivened in the Carey household only by the
solemn rite of paying the annual rent of the Yellow House. The votive nosegay had been carefully
made up, and laid lovingly by Nancy under Mother Hamilton's portrait, in the presence not only
of the entire family, but also of Osh Popham, who had called to present early radishes and
peppergrass.

"I'd like to go upstairs with you when you get your boquet tied up," he said, "because it's
an awful hot day, an' the queer kind o' things you do 't this house allers makes my backbone
cold! I never suspicioned that Lena Hamilton hed the same kind o' fantasmic notions that you
folks have, but I guess it's like tenant, like landlord, in this case! Anyhow, I want to see
the rent paid, if you don't mind. I wish't you'd asked that mean old sculpin of a Hen Lord
over; he owns my house an' it might put a few idees into his head!"

In the afternoon Nancy took her writing pad and sat on the circular steps, where it was cool.
The five o'clock train from Boston whistled at the station a mile away as she gathered her
white skirts daintily up and settled herself in the shadiest corner. She was unconscious of
the passing time, and scarcely looked up until the rattling of wheels caught her ear. It was
the station wagon stopping at the Yellow House gate, and a strange gentleman was alighting.
He had an unmistakable air of the town. His clothes were not as Beulah clothes and his hat
was not as Beulah hats, for it was a fine Panama with a broad sweeping brim. Nancy rose from
the steps, surprise dawning first in her eyes, then wonder, then suspicion, then conviction;
then two dimples appeared in her cheeks.

The stranger lifted the foreign-looking hat with a smile and said, "My little friend and correspondent,
Nancy Carey, I think?"

"My American Consul, I do believe!" cried Nancy joyously, as she ran down the path with both
hands outstretched. "Where did you come from? Why didn't you tell us beforehand? We never even
heard that you were in this country! Oh! I know why you chose the Fourth of July! It's pay
day, and you thought we shouldn't be ready with the rent; but it's all attended to, beautifully,
this morning!"

"May I send my bag to the Mansion House and stay a while with you?" asked Mr. Hamilton. "Are
the rest of you at home? How are Gilbert and Kathleen and Julia and Peter? How, especially,
is Mother Carey?"

"What a memory you have!" exclaimed Nancy. The heresies were almost attempts to explain the mysteries
of the Trinity and of the Incarnation. Usually all of the heresies
of this time arose among the Greeks of Asia or Egypt, peoples who
were disputatious, sophistical, and be subtle.


Then too, the whole house had to be shown, room by room, even to Cousin Ann's stove in the
cellar and the pump in the kitchen sink.

"I never saw anything like it!" exclaimed Hamilton. "It is like magic! I ought to pay you a
thousand dollars on the spot! I ought to try and buy the place of you for five thousand! Why
don't you go into the business of recreating houses and selling them to poor benighted creatures
like me, who never realize their possibilities?"

"If we show you the painted chamber will you promise not to be too unhappy?" asked Nancy. "You
can't help crying with rage and grief that it is our painted chamber, not yours; but try to
bear up until you get to the hotel, because mother is so soft-hearted she will be giving it
back to you unless I interfere."

"You must have spent money lavishly when you restored this room," said the Consul; "it is a
real work of art."

"Not a penny," said Mrs. Carey. "It is the work of a great friend of Nancy's, a seventeen-year-old
girl, who, we expect, will make Beulah famous some day. Now will you go into your mother's
room and find your way downstairs by yourself? Julia, will you show Mr. Hamilton the barn a
little later, while Nancy and I get supper? Kitty must go to the Pophams' for Peter; he is
spending the afternoon with them."

Nancy had enough presence of mind to intercept Kitty and hiss into her ear: "Borrow a loaf
of bread from Mrs. Popham, we are short; and see if you can find any way to get strawberries
from Bill Harmon's; it was to have been a bread-and-milk supper on the piazza, to-night, and
it must be hurriedly changed into a Consular banquet! Verb. sap. Fly!"

Gilbert turned up a little before six o'clock and was introduced proudly by his mother as a
son who had just "gone into business."

"I'm Bill Harmon's summer clerk and delivery boy," he explained. "It's great fun, and I get
two dollars and a half a week."

Nancy and her mother worked like Trojans in the kitchen, for they agreed it was no time for
economy, even if they had less to eat for a week to come.

"Mr. Hamilton is just as nice as I guessed he was, when his first letter came," said Nancy.
"I went upstairs to get a card for the supper menu, and he was standing by your mantelpiece
with his head bent over his arms. He had the little bunch of field flowers in his hand, and
I know he had been smelling them, and looking at his mother's picture, and remembering things!"

What a merry supper it was, with a jug of black-eyed Susans in the centre of the table and
a written bill of fare for Mr. Hamilton, "because he was a Consul," so Nancy said.

Gilbert sat at the head of the table, and Mr. Hamilton thought he had never seen anything so
beautiful as Mrs. Carey in her lavender challie, sitting behind the tea cups; unless it was
Nancy, flushed like a rose, changing the plates and waiting on the table between courses. He
had never exerted himself so much at any diplomatic dinner, and he won the hearts of the entire
family before the meal was finished.

"By the way, I have a letter of introduction to you all, but especially to Miss Nancy here,
and I have never thought to deliver it," he said. "Who do you think sent it,--all the way from
China?"

"My son Tom!" exclaimed Nancy irrepressibly; "but no, he couldn't, because he doesn't know us."

"The Admiral, of course!" cried Gilbert.

"You are both right," Mr. Hamilton answered, drawing a letter from his coat pocket. "It is
a Round Robin from the Admiral and my son Tom, who have been making acquaintance in Hong Kong.
It is addressed:

    "FROM THE YELLOW PERIL, IN CHINA

    "to

    "THE YELLOW HOUSE, IN BEULAH,

    "Greeting!"

Nancy crimsoned. "Did the Admiral tell your son Tom I called him the Yellow Peril? It was wicked
of him! I did it, you know, because you wrote me that the only Hamilton who cared anything
for the old house, or would ever want to live in it, was your son Tom. After that I always
called him the Yellow Peril, and I suppose I mentioned it in a letter to the Admiral."

"I am convinced that Nancy's mind is always empty at bedtime," said her mother, "because she
tells everything in it to somebody during the day. I hope age will bring discretion, but I
doubt it."

"My son Tom is coming home!" said his father, with unmistakable delight in his voice.

Nancy, who was passing the cake, sat down so heavily in her chair that everybody laughed.

"Come, come, Miss Nancy! I can't let you make an ogre of the boy," urged Mr. Hamilton. "He
is a fine fellow, and if he comes down here to look at the old place you are sure to be good
friends."

"Is he going back to China after his visit?" asked Mrs. Carey, who felt a fear of the young
man something akin to her daughter's.

