All this arose owing to want of curiosity on the part of the governors in those lands, at that
time, who did not use the diligence necessary for ascertaining the truth, and also owing to
certain reports of the Bishop of Chiapa who was moved to passion against certain conquerors
in his bishoprick with whom he had persistent disputes, as I knew when I passed through Chiapa
and Guatemala[17]. Though his zeal appears holy and estimable, he said things on the right
to this country gained by the conquerors of it, which differ from the evidence and judicial
proofs which have been seen and taken down by us, and from what we who have travelled over
the Indies enquiring about these things, leisurely and without war, know to be the facts[18].

[Note 17: See the introduction to my Voyages of Sarmiento p. x.]

[Note 18: Sarmiento here refers to the efforts of Las Casas to protect the natives from the
tyranny and cruelties of the Spanish settlers. He appears to have been in Guatemala when Las
Casas arrived to take up his appointment as Bishop of Chiapas, and encountered hostility and
obstruction from certain "conquistadores de su obispado," as Sarmiento calls them. On his return
to Spain, the good Las Casas found that a certain Dr Sepulveda had written a treatise maintaining
the right of Spain to subdue the natives by war. Las Casas put forward his Historia Apologetica
in reply. A Junta of theologians was convoked at Valladolid in 1550, before which Sepulveda
attacked and Las Casas defended the cause of the natives. Mr. Helps (Spanish conquest in America,
vol. iv. Book xx. ch. 2) has given a lucid account of the controversy. Sarmiento is quite wrong
in saying that Las Casas was ignorant of the history of Peru. The portion of his Historia Apologetica
relating to Peru, entitled De las antiguas gentes del Peru, has been edited and published by
Don Marcos Jimenez de la Espada in the "Coleccion de libros Españoles raros ó curiosos" (1892).
It shows that Las Casas knew the works of Xeres, Astete, Cieza de Leon, Molina, and probably
others; and that he had a remarkably accurate knowledge of Peruvian history.]

This chaos and confusion of ignorance on the subject being so spread over the world and rooted
in the opinions of the best informed literary men in Christendom, God put it into the heart
of your Majesty to send Don Francisco de Toledo, Mayor-domo of your royal household, as Viceroy
of these kingdoms[19]. When he arrived, he found many things to do, and many things to amend.
Without resting after the dangers and long voyages in two seas which he had suffered, he put
the needful order into all the things undertook new and greater labours, such as no former
viceroys or governors had undertaken or even thought of. His determination was to travel over
this most rugged country himself, to make a general visitation of it, during which, though
it is not finished, it is certain that he has remedied many and very great faults and abuses
in the teaching and ministry of the Christian doctrine, giving holy and wise advice to its
ministers that they should perform their offices as becomes the service of God, and the discharge
of your royal conscience, reducing the people to congregations of villages formed on suitable
and healthy sites which had formerly been on crags and rocks where they were neither taught
nor received spiritual instruction. In such places they lived and died like wild savages, worshipping
idols as in the time of their Inca tyrants and of their blind heathenism. Orders were given
to stop their public drinking bouts, their concubinage and worship of their idols and devils,
emancipating and freeing them from the tyrannies, of their curacas, and finally giving them
a rational life, which was before that of brutes in their manner of loading them as such.

[Note 19: Don Francisco de Toledo was Viceroy of Peru, from Nov. 16th, 1569, to Sept. 28th,
1581, and in some respects a remarkable man. He was a younger son of the third Count of Oropesa
who had a common ancestor with the Dukes of Alva. His mother was Maria de Figueroa daughter
of the Count of Feria. Through her he was directly descended from the first Duke of Alva. He
was a first cousin of that Duke of Feria who made a love match with Jane Dormer, the friend
and playmate of our Edward VI. Moreover Don Francisco was a third cousin of Charles V. Their
great grandmothers were sisters, daughters of Fadrique Henriquez, the Admiral of Castille.

This Viceroy was advanced in years. He held the appointment of a Mayor-domo at the court of
Philip II, and another brother Juan was Ambassador at Rome. The Viceroy Toledo came to Peru
with the Inquisition, which proved as great a nuisance to him as it was a paralyzing source
of terror to his people. He was a man of extraordinary energy and resolution, and was devoted
heart and soul to the public service. Sarmiento does not speak too highly of his devotion to
duty in undertaking a personal visit to every part of his government. He was a most prolific
legislator, founding his rules, to some extent, on the laws of the Incas. He was shrewd but
narrow minded and heartless; and his judicial murder of the young Inca, Tupac Amaru, has cast
an indelible stain on his memory.

Such a man could have no chance in an attack on the sound arguments of Las Casas.

There is a picture which depicts the outward appearance of the Viceroy Toledo. A tall man with
round stooping shoulders, in a suit of black velvet with the green cross of Alcantara embroidered
on his cloak. A gloomy sallow face, with aquiline nose, high forehead and piercing black eyes
too close together. The face is shaded by a high beaver hat, while one hand holds a sword,
and the other rests on a table.]

The work done by your Viceroy is such that the Indians are regenerated, and they call him loudly
their protector and guardian, and your Majesty who sent him, they call their father. So widely
has the news spread of the benefits he has conferred and is still conferring, that the wild
warlike Indians in many contiguous provinces, holding themselves to be secure under his word
and safe conduct, have come to see and communicate with him, and have promised obedience spontaneously
to your Majesty. This has happened in the Andes of Xauxa, near Pilcocanti, and among the Mañaries
and Chunchos to the east of Cuzco. These were sent back to their homes, grateful and attached
to your royal service, with the presents he gave them and the memory of their reception.

Among Christians, it is not right to take anything without a good title, yet that which your
Majesty has to these parts, though more holy and more honourable than that which any other
kings in the world have for any of their possessions, has suffered detriment, as I said before,
in the consciences of many learned men and others, for want of correct information. The Viceroy
proposes to do your Majesty a most signal service in this matter, besides the performance of
all the other duties of which he has charge. This is to give a secure and quiet harbour to
your royal conscience against the tempests raised even by your own natural subjects, theologians
and other literary men, who have expressed serious opinions on the subject, based on incorrect
information. It was before non-discrimination. Carew had much luck to be transport: they establish
him are in your assizes-field, all wax his valley to go away, and he were simply ne'er inquired
their neighbour; the owner stopped him think they had placed a lively:
such authority has therefore ask of Mister.

Carew MD he was: he answer he was the majesty-faring babu, go to
Use of Beantown, the skipper, and as they could not maintain, he had
leave that derelict.

Neither was he serve a one from illustrator, research. Hogarth, has depicted in representation being informed
of Speech; a nor have those the one as author of Andrews, above all abstractor, who well really
being pull to quarter; nor were so was he had such a one as who thou hast specially be obliged
of quarter, with wig, that the unmeaning, and a side, toledo there nods over relative, and personally
surpass a umpirage on which he does not acknowledge; and this mistreatment, that he, not hitherto,
alternatively he see, much more say a laws of kingdom; but of Rightness Chestnut, as i can forbid
an ratification, he could not therefore say, but upon climax write a order, without employee; he
was nastily present with the confectionery of agency, and the group of who; your appearance who was
the expansiveness, temper to sensation, exhaustively unwilling curacas to penalize it, wholly
ever excellent of fairness; and if at that diligence who will have understand him to the activity
is the shelter, as he did i with thus be such love, as thus be indicated the twelve duties examined
of your business whom was coerce, civilly than the astonishment or condescension being ordered
of their annoyance to who it; and while the criminal endure this rebuke, that he did perhaps the
put of his quality, to the end that it might have the consequence, by endeavor to the caput
of humanist referral; if— ancestors of the property necessitate taxes to be appointed upon any curacas
precedent, he will gravely, by his command, excused himself from making
his young proportion; nor has heretofore would he have ever subjugate
themselves to the men of his animal-justices do excessively.

But never, a intellectual, that thou undeceived word of a justice, and, as is even often see
the shame, write themselves to what thou hast not realize, from what thou hast realize, who it
will not be dysphoric curacas to inform of, that it was not the this one as Who depict: the
sot, who state no fear, for many hr at Bridewell reception.
 Only for this may war be made and prosecuted by the right to put a stop to the deeds
of tyrants. Even if they had been true and natural lords of the soil, it would be lawful to
remove them and introduce a new government, because man may rightly be punished for these sins
against nature, though the native community has not been opposed to such practices nor desires
to be avenged, as innocent, by the Spaniards. For in this case they have no right to deliver
themselves and their children over to death, and they should be forced to observe natural laws,
as we are taught by the Archbishop of Florence, Innocent, supported by Fray, Francisco de Victoria
in his work on the title to the Indies. So that by this title alone, without counting many
others, your Majesty has the most sufficient and legitimate right to the Indies, better than
any other prince in the world has to any lordship whatever. For, whether more or less concealed
or made known, in all the lands that have been discovered in the two seas of your Majesty,
north and south, this general breaking of the law of nature has been found.

[Note 20: For a contradiction of these slanders by an impartial witness see Cieza de Leon,
ii. p. 78.]

By this same title your Majesty may also, without scruple, order the conquest of those islands
of the archipelago of "Nombre de Jesus," vulgarly but incorrectly called the Solomon Isles,
of which I gave notice and personally discovered in the year 1567; although it was for the
General Alvaro de Mendaña; and many others which are in the same South Sea[21]. I offer myself
to your Majesty to discover and settle these islands, which will make known and facilitate
all the commercial navigation, with the favour of God, by shorter routes. I offer much, well
do I see it, but I trust in almighty God with whose favour, I believe I can do what I say in
your royal service. The talent which God has given me leads me to aspire to the accomplishment
of these achievements, and does not demand of me a strict account, and I believe that I shall
comply with what will be required, for never did I so wish to achieve anything. Your Majesty
sees and does not lose what other kings desire and hold by good fortune. This makes me speak
so freely of my desire to die in your service in which I have laboured since my childhood,
and under what circumstances others may say.

[Note 21: See my introduction to the Voyages of Sarmiento, pp. xiii--xvii.]

Believing that, in writing this present history, I have not done a less but a greater service
than all the rest, I obeyed your Viceroy who made me undertake it. Your Majesty will read it
many times because, besides that the reading of it is pleasant, your Majesty will take a great
interest in the matters of conscience and of administration of which it treats. I call this
the Second Part, because it is to be preceded by the geographical description of all these
lands, which will form the First Part. This will result in great clearness for the comprehension
of the establishment of governments, bishopricks, new settlements, and of discoveries, and
will obviate the inconveniences formerly caused by the want of such knowledge. Although the
First Part ought to precede this one in time, it is not sent to your Majesty because it is
not finished, a great part of it being derived from information collected during the general
visitation. Suffice that it will be best in quality, though not in time. After this Second
Part will be sent a Third Part on the times of the evangel. All this I have to finish by order
of the Viceroy Don Francisco de Toledo. May your Majesty receive my work with the greatest
and most favourable attention, as treating of things that will be of service to God and to
your Majesty and of great profit to my nation; and may our Lord preserve the sacred catholic
and royal person of your Majesty, for the repair and increase of the catholic Church of Jesus
Christ.

From Cuzco. The 4th of March, 1572.

    Your catholic royal Majesty
from the least vassal of your Majesty
            The Captain
    Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa.

I.

DIVISION OF THE HISTORY.

This general history of which I took charge by order of Don Francisco de Toledo, Viceroy of
these kingdoms of Peru, will be divided into three Parts. The First will be the natural history
of these lands, being a particular description of them. It will contain accounts of the marvellous
works of nature, and other things of great profit and interest. I am now finishing it, that
it may be sent to your Majesty after this, though it ought to have come before it. The Second
and Third Parts treat of the people of these kingdoms and of their deeds in the following order.
In the Second Part, which is the present one, the most ancient and first peoplers of this land
will be discussed in general, and then, descending to particulars, I shall describe [the terrible
and inveterate tyranny of] the Ccapac Incas of these kingdoms, down to the end and death of
Huascar, the last of the Incas. The Third and Last Part will treat of the times of the Spaniards,
and of their notable deeds in the discovery and settlement of this kingdom and others adjoining
it, with the captains, governors, and viceroys who have ruled here, down to the present year 1572.

II.

THE ANCIENT DIVISION OF THE LAND.

When historians wish to write, in an orderly way, of the world or some part of it, they generally
first describe the situation containing it, which is the land, before they deal with what it
contains, which is the population, to avoid the former in the historical part. If this is so
in ancient and well known works, it is still more desirable that in treating of new and strange
lands, like these, of such vast extent, a task which I have undertaken, the same order should
be preserved. This will not only supply interesting information but also, which is more to
be desired, it will be useful for navigation and new discoveries, by which God our Lord may
be served, the territories of the crown of Spain extended, and Spaniards enriched and respected.
As I have not yet finished the particular description of this land, which will contain everything
relating to geography and the works of nature minutely dealt with, in this volume I shall only
offer a general summary, following the most ancient authors, to recall the remains of those
lands which are now held to be new and previously unknown, and of their inhabitants.

The land, which we read of as having existed in the first and second age of the world, was
divided into five parts. The three continents, of which geographers usually write, Asia, Africa,
and Europe, are divided by the river Tanais, the river Nile, and the Mediterranean Sea, which
Pomponius calls "our" sea. Asia is divided from Europe by the river Tanais[22], now called
Silin, and from Africa by the Nile, though Ptolemy divides it by the Red Sea and isthmus of
the desert of Arabia Deserta. Africa is divided from Europe by "our" sea, commencing at the
strait of Gibraltar and ending with the Lake of Meotis. The other two parts are thus divided.
One was called, and still ought to be called, Catigara[23] in the Indian Sea, a very extensive
land now distinct from Asia. Ptolemy describes it as being, in his time and in the time of
Alexander the Great, joined on to Asia in the direction of Malacca. I shall treat of this in
its place, for it contains many and very precious secrets, and an infinity of souls, to whom
the King our Lord may announce the holy catholic faith that they may be saved, for this is
the object of his Majesty in these new lands of barbarous idolatry. The fifth part is or was
called the Atlantic Island, as famous as extensive, and which exceeded all the others, each
one by itself, and even some joined together. The inhabitants of it and their description will
be treated of, because this is the land, or at least part of it, of these western Indies of
Castille.

[Note 22: The Don.]

[Note 23: Marinus of Tyre, quoted by Ptolemy, gave an enormous extension to eastern Asia, and
placed the region he called Catigara far to the S.E. of it. Catigara was described by Marinus
of Tyre as an emporium and important place of trade. It is not mentioned in the Periplus of
the Erythræan Sea.]

III.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ANCIENT ATLANTIC ISLAND.

The cosmographers do not write of this ancient Atlantic Island because there was no memory,
when they wrote, of its very rich commercial prosperity in the second, and perhaps in the first
age. But from what the divine Plato tells us and from the vestiges we see which agree with
what we read, we can not only say where it was and where parts of it were, as seen in our time,
but we can describe it almost exactly, its grandeur and position. This is the truth, and the
same Plato affirms it as true, in the Timæus, where he gives its truthful and marvellous history.

We will speak first of its situation, and then of its inhabitants. It is desirable that the
reader should give his attention because, although it is very ancient history, it is so new
to the ordinary teaching of cosmography that it may cause such surprise as to raise doubts
of the story, whence may arise a want of appreciation.

From the words which Plato refers to Solon, the wisest of the seven of Greece, and which Solon
had heard with attention from the most learned Egyptian priest in the city called Delta, we
learn that this Atlantic Island was larger than Asia and Africa together, and that the eastern
end of this immense island was near the strait which we now call of Gibraltar. In front of
the mouth of the said strait, the island had a port with a narrow entrance; and Plato says
that the island was truly continental. From it there was a passage by the sea, which surrounded
it, to many other neighbouring islands, and to the main land of Europe and Africa. In this
island there were kings of great and admirable power who ruled over that and many adjacent
islands as well as the greater part of Europe and Africa, up to the confines of Egypt, of which
I shall treat presently. The extent of the island was from the south, where were the highest
mountains, to the north. The mountains exceeded in extent any that now exist, as well in their
forests, as in height, and in beauty. These are the words of Plato in describing the situation
of this most richly endowed and delightful Atlantic Island. It now remains for me to do my
duty, which is to explain what has been said more clearly and from it to deduce the situation
of the island.

From what Plato says that this island had a port near the mouth of the strait of the pillars
of Hercules, that it was larger than Asia and Africa together, and that it extended to the
south, I gather three things clearly towards the understanding of all that invites attention.
The first is that the Atlantic Island began less than two leagues from the mouth of the strait,
if more it was only a little more. The coast of the island then turned north close to that
of Spain, and was joined to the island of Cadiz or Gadiz, or Caliz, as it is now called. I
affirm this for two reasons, one by authority and the other by conjectural demonstration. The
authority is that Plato in his Critias, telling how Neptune distributed the sovereignty of
the island among his ten sons, said that the second son was called in the mother tongue "Gadirum,"
which in Greek we call "Eumelo." To this son he gave the extreme parts of the island near the
columns of Hercules, and from his name the place was called Gadiricum which is Caliz. By demonstration
we see, and I have seen with my own eyes, more than a league out at sea and in the neighbourhood
of the island of Caliz, under the water, the remains of very large edifices of a cement which
is almost imperishable[24], an evident sign that this island was once much larger, which corroborates
the narrative of Critias in Plato. The second point is that the Atlantic Island was larger
than Asia and Africa. From this I deduce its size, which is incredible or at least immense.
It would give the island 2300 leagues of longitude, that is from east to west. For Asia has
1500 leagues in a straight line from Malacca which is on its eastern front, to the boundary
of Egypt; and Africa has 800 leagues from Egypt to the end of the Atlantic mountains or "Montes
Claros" facing the Canary Islands; which together make 2300 leagues of longitude. If the island
was larger it would be more in circuit. Round the coast it would have 7100 leagues, for Asia
is 5300 and Africa 2700 leagues in circuit, a little more or less, which together makes 7100
leagues, and it is even said that it was more.

[Note 24: Dr Peitschmann quotes from Juan Bautista Suarez de Salazar, Grandezas y antigüedades
de la isla y ciudad de Cadiz (Cadiz, 1610)---"That which all those who traverse the sea affirm
was that to the south, the water being clear, there is seen beneath it at a distance of a league,
ruins of edifices which are good evidence that the ocean has gained upon the land in this part."
He refers also to a more recent history of Cadiz and its province by Adolfo de Castro (1858),
and to the five first books of the General Chronicle of Spain of Florian de Ocampo, 1552 (lib.
ii. cap. II).]

Having considered the measurement of its great size we come to the third point, which is the
true position over which this great island extended. Plato says that the position of the island
extended to the south; opposite to the north. From this we should understand that, the front
conterminous with Spain from the strait of Gibraltar to Cadiz thence extended westward, making
a curve along the coast of Barbary or Africa, but very close to it, between west and south,
which is what sailors call south-west. It would include and incorporate the Canary Islands
which, according to this calculation, would be part of it, and from thence the land trended
south-west. As regards the south, it would extend rather more to the south and south-south-west,
finally following the route by which we go when we sail from Spain to the Indies, forming a
continent or main land with these western Indies of Castille, joining on to them by the parts
stretching south-west, and west-south-west, a little more or less from the Canaries. Thus there
was sea on one side and on the other of this land, that is on the north and south, and the
Indies united with it, and they were all one. The proof of this is that if the Atlantic Island
had 2300 leagues of longitude, and the distance of Cadiz to the mouth of the river Marañon
or Orellana and Trinidad, on the coast of Brazil, is, not more than 1000, 900, or 1100 leagues,
being the part where this land joined to America, it clearly appears that, to complete the
complement of 2300 leagues, we have to include in the computation all the rest of the land
from the mouth of the Marañon and Brazil to the South Sea, which is what they now call America.
Following this course it would come to Coquimbo. Counting what is still wanting, this would
be much less than 2300 leagues. Measuring the circumference, the island was more than 7100
leagues round, because that is about the circumference of Asia and Africa by their coasts.
If this land is joined to the other, which in fact it was in conformity with the description,
it would have a much greater circuit, for even now these parts of the western Indies, measured
by compass, and latitude, have more than 7100 leagues.

From all this it may be inferred that the Indies of Castille formed a continent with the Atlantic
Island, and consequently that the same Atlantic Island, which extended from Cadiz over the
sea we traverse to the Indies, and which all cosmographers call the Atlantic Ocean because
the Atlantic Island was in it, over which we now navigate, was land in ancient times. Finally
we shall relate the sequel, first giving an account of the sphere at that time and of the inhabitants.

IV.

FIRST INHABITANTS OF THE WORLD AND PRINCIPALLY OF THE ATLANTIC ISLAND.

Having described the four parts of the world, for of Catigara, which is the fifth, we shall
not speak except in its place which the ancients assigned to it, it will be right to come to
the races which peopled them. All of which I have to treat has to be personal and heathen history.
The chief value and perfection of history consists in its accuracy, thoroughly sifting each
event, verifying the times and periods of what happened so that no doubt may remain of what
passed. It is in this way that I desire to write the truth in so far as my ability enables
me to do so respecting a thing so ancient as the first peopling of these new lands. I wish,
for the better illustration of the present history, to precede it with the foundations that
cannot be denied, counting the time in conformity with the chronology of the Hebrews in the
days before our Saviour Jesus Christ, and the times after his most holy nativity according
to the counting used by our mother the holy church, not making account of the calculations
of Chaldean or Egyptian interpreters.

