Later on, as, at the order of the not ill-natured but very frowzy Boer commandant, I was gloomily
taking off the saucy warm spotted waistcoat knitted for me by my sister, I noticed our friends
of the previous evening in very animated and friendly conversation with the burghers, and "Pappa"
was, curiously enough, carrying a rifle and bandolier and my new field-glasses. He was laughing
and pointing towards something lying on the ground, through which he finally put his foot.
This, to my horror, I recognized as my unhappy camera. Here, I suppose, my mind must have slightly
wandered, for I found myself repeating some Latin lines, once my favorite imposition, but forgotten
since my school-days--

    "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes----"

when suddenly the voice of the field cornet broke into my musing with "Your breeches, too,
captain."

       *       *       *       *       *

Trekking all that day on foot, sockless, and in the boots of another, I had much to think of
besides my throbbing head. The sight of the long Boer convoy with guns, which had succeeded
so easily in crossing the drift I was to have held, was a continual reminder of my failure,
and of my responsibility for the dreadful losses to my poor detachment. I gradually gathered
from the Boers what I had already partially guessed, namely, that they had been fetched and
guided all round our camp by friend Brink, had surrounded it in the dark, crawling about in
the bush on the river bank, and had carefully marked down our two poor sentries. These they
had at once shot on the alarm being given, and had then rushed the camp from the dense cover
on three sides. Towards evening my head got worse, and its rhythmic throbbing seemed gradually
to take a meaning, and hammered out the following lessons, the result of much pondering on
my failure:

1. Do not put off taking your measures of defence till the morrow, as this is more important
than the comfort of your men or the shipshape arrangement of your camp. Choose the position
of your camp mainly with reference to your defence.

2. Do not in war-time show stray men of the enemy's breed all over your camp, be they never
so kind and full of butter, and do not be hypnotized, by numerous "passes," at once to confide
in them.

3. Do not let your sentries advertise their position to the whole world, including the enemy,
by standing in the full glare of a fire, and making much noise every half hour.

4. Do not, if avoidable, be in tents when bullets are ripping through them: at such times a
hole in the ground is worth many tents.

After these lessons had been dinned into my soul millions and millions of times, so that I
could never forget them, a strange thing came to pass--there was a kaleidoscopic change. I
had another dream.

SECOND DREAM.

    "And what did ye look they should compass? Warcraft learnt in a breath,
    Knowledge unto occasion at the first far view of Death?"--KIPLING.

I suddenly found myself dumped down at Duffer's Drift with the same orders as already detailed,
and an equal detachment composed of entirely different men. As before, and on every subsequent
occasion, I had ample stores, ammunition, and tools. My position was precisely similar to my
former one, with this important exception, running through my brain were four lessons.

As soon as I received my orders, therefore, I began to make out my plan of operations without
wasting any time over the landscape, the setting sun, or the departing column, which, having
off-loaded all our stores, soon vanished. I was determined to carry out all the lessons I had
learnt as well as I knew how.

To prevent any strangers, friendly or otherwise, from coming into my position and spying out
the elaborate defences I was going to make, I sent out at once two examining posts of one N.C.O.
and three men each, one to the top of Waschout Hill, and the other some 1,000 yards out on
the veldt to the north of the drift. Their orders were to watch the surrounding country, and
give the alarm in the event of the approach of any body of men whatever (Boers were, of course,
improbable, but still just possible), and also to stop any individuals, friendly or not, from
coming anywhere near camp, and to shoot at once on non-compliance with the order to halt. If
the new-comers had any provisions to sell, these were to be sent in with a list by one of the
guard, who would return with the money, but the strangers were not to be allowed nearer the
camp on any account.

Having thus arranged a safeguard against spies, I proceeded to choose a camping-ground. I chose
the site already described in my former dream, and for the same reasons, which still appealed
to me. So long as I was entrenched, it appeared the best place around. We started making our
trenches as soon as I had marked off a nice squarish little enclosure which would about contain
our small camp. Though, of course, the north was the front, I thought, having a camp, it would
be best to have an all-round defence as a sort of obstacle. The majority of the men were told
off to dig, which they did not relish, a few being detailed to pitch camp and prepare tea.
As the length of trench was rather great for the available number of diggers, and the soil
was hard, we were only able by dark, by which time the men were quite done up by their hard
day, to make quite a low parapet and shallow trench. Still, we were "entrenched," which was
the great thing, and the trench was all round our camp, so we were well prepared, even should
we be attacked during the night or early next morning, which was out of the question.

During this time one or two strangers had approached the guard of the north from a farm under
Incidentamba. As they had eggs and butter, etc., to sell, these were brought in as arranged
for. The man sent in with the stuff reported that the elder of the Dutchmen was a most pleasant
man, and had sent me a present of a pat of butter and some eggs, with his compliments, and
would I allow him to come in and speak to me. However, not being such a fool as to allow him
in my defences, I went out instead, in case he had any information. His only information was
that there were no Boers anywhere near. He was an old man, but though he had a museum of "passes,"
I was not to be chloroformed by them into confidence. As he seemed friendly, and possibly loyal,
I walked part of the way back to his farm with him, in order to look around. At dark the two
examining posts came in, and two guards were mounted close by the object I was to watch, namely,
the drift, at the same places as in my previous dream. This time, however, there was no half-hourly
shouting, nor were there any fires, and the sentries had orders not to challenge but to shoot
any person they might see outside camp at once. They were placed standing down the river bank,
just high enough to see over the top, and were thus not unnecessarily exposed. Teas had been
eaten, and all fires put out at dusk, and after dark all turned in, but in the trenches instead
of in tents. After going round sentries to see everything snug for the night, I lay down myself
with a sense of having done my duty, and neglected no possible precaution for our safety. 

       After the church and close were built, the citizens had their freestone,&
c. from thence.

And in Edward the sixth's time, the stately house of a Salisbury of Pembroke, at Leigh, was digged
with the mines of it. About 1660 i was upon it. There was then remaining on the south side some
of this walles of the spered gate; and on a north side there was some remaines of the bottome
of a tower; but the incrustation of freestone was all almost gone: a fellow was then picking
at that little that was left.'Tis like enough by the steeple they
have built all away.

Wilton.-Earle. Edw, Esq. "there is the high and beautifull minster, with an exceeding great great day,
and double crosse aisle on both sides.

After vainly trying until bright daylight to see the enemy in order to do some damage in return,
so many men were hit, and the position seemed so utterly hopeless, that I had to hoist the
white flag. We had by then twenty-four men killed and six wounded. As soon as the white flag
went up the Boers ceased firing at once, and stood up; every bush and ant-hill up to 100 yards'
range seemed to have hid a Boer behind it. This close range explained the marvelous accuracy
of their shooting, and the great proportion of our killed (who were nearly all shot through
the head) to our wounded.

As we were collecting ourselves preparatory to marching off, there were one or two things which
struck me; one was that the Dutchman who had presented me with eggs and butter was in earnest
confabulation with the Boer commandant, who was calling him "Oom" most affectionately. I also
noticed that all the male Kaffirs from the neighboring kraal had been fetched and impressed
to assist in getting the Boer guns and wagons across the drift and to load up our captured
gear, and generally do odd and dirty jobs. These same Kaffirs did their work with amazing alacrity,
and looked as if they enjoyed it; there was no "backchat" when an order was given--usually
by friend "Oom."

Again, as I trudged with blistered feet that livelong day, did I think over my failure. It
seemed so strange, I had done all I knew, and yet, here we were, ignominiously captured, twenty-four
of us killed, and the Boers over the drift. "Ah, B.F., my boy," I thought, "there must be a
few more lessons to be learnt besides those you already know," and in order to find out what
these were, I pondered deeply over the details of the fight.

How the Boers must have known of our position, and how they had managed to get close up all
round within snapshooting range without being discovered. What a tremendous advantage they
had had in shooting from among the bushes on the bank, where they could not be seen, over us
who had to show up over a parapet every time we looked for an enemy, and show up, moreover,
just in the very place where every Boer expected us to, and was watching. There seemed to be
some fault in the position. How the bullets seemed sometimes to come through the parapet, and
how those that passed over one side hit the men defending the other side in the back. How on
the whole that "natural obstacle," the river bed, seemed to be more of a disadvantage than
a protection.

Eventually the following lessons framed themselves in my head--some of them quite new, some
of them supplementing those four I had already learnt:

5. With modern rifles, to guard a drift or locality does not necessitate sitting on top of
it (as if it could be picked up and carried away), unless the locality is suitable to hold
for other and defensive reasons. It may even be much better to take up your defensive position
some way from the spot, and so away from concealed ground, which enables the enemy to crawl
up to very close range, concealed and unperceived, and to fire from cover which hides them
even when shooting. It would be better, if possible, to have the enemy in the open, or to have
what is called a clear "field of fire."

A non-bullet proof parapet or shelter which is visible serves merely to attract bullets instead
of keeping them out--the proof-thickness can be easily tested practically.

When fired at by an enemy at close range from nearly all round, a low parapet and shallow trench
are not of much use, as what bullets do not hit the defenders on one side hit those on another.

6. It is not enough to keep strange men of the enemy's breed away from your actual defences,
letting them go free to warn their friends of your existence and whereabouts--even though they
do not know the details of your defences. It would be very much better to gather in all such
strangers and kindly, but firmly, to take care of them, so that they should not be under temptation
to impart any knowledge they may have obtained. "Another way," as the cookery book says, more
economical in lives, would be as follows: Gather and warmly greet a sufficiency of strangers.
Stuff well with chestnuts as to the large force about to join you in a few hours; garnish with
corroborative detail, and season according to taste with whiskey or tobacco. This will very
likely be sufficient for the nearest commando. Probable cost--some heavy and glib lying, but
no lives will be expended.

7. It is not business to allow lazy black men (even though they be brothers and neutrals) to
sit and pick their teeth outside their kraals whilst tired white men are breaking their hearts
trying to do heavy labor in short time. It is more the duty of a Christian soldier to teach
the dusky neutral the dignity of labor, and to keep him under guard, to prevent his going away
to talk about it.

By the time the above lessons had been well burnt into my brain, beyond all chance of forgetfulness,
a strange thing happened--I had a fresh dream.

THIRD DREAM.

    "So when we take tea with a few guns, o' course you will know
      what to do--hoo! hoo!"--KIPLING.

I was at Duffer's Drift on a similar sunny afternoon and under precisely similar conditions,
except that I now had seven lessons running through my mind.

I at once sent out two patrols, each of one N.C.O. and three men, one to the north and one
to the south. They were to visit all neighboring farms and kraals and bring in all able-bodied
Dutchmen and boys and male Kaffirs--by persuasion if possible, but by force if necessary. This
would prevent the news of our arrival being carried around to any adjacent commandoes, and
would also assist to solve the labor question. A small guard was mounted on the top of Waschout
Hill as a look-out.

I decided that as the drift could not get up and run away, it was not necessary to take up
my post or position quite close to it, especially as such a position would be under close rifle
fire from the river bank, to which the approaches were quite concealed, and which gave excellent
cover. The very worst place for such a position seemed to be anywhere within the horseshoe
bend of the river, as this would allow an enemy practically to surround it. My choice, therefore,
fell on a spot to which the ground gently rose from the river bank some 700 to 800 yards south
of the drift. Here I arranged to dig a trench roughly facing the front (north) which thus would
have about 800 yards clear ground on its front. We started to make a trench about fifty yards
long for my fifty men, according to the usual rule.

Some little time after beginning, the patrols came in, having collected three Dutchmen and
two boys, and about thirteen Kaffirs. The former, the leader of whom seemed a man of education
and some importance, were at first inclined to protest when they were given tools to dig trenches
for themselves, showed bundles of "passes," and talked very big about complaining to the General,
and even as to a question in the "House" about our brutality. This momentarily staggered me,
as I could not help wondering what might happen to poor B.F. if the member for Upper Tooting
should raise the point; but Westminster was far away, and I hardened my heart. Finally they
had the humor to see the force of the argument, that it was, after all, necessary, for their
own health, as they would otherwise be out in the open veldt, should the post be attacked.

The Kaffirs served as a welcome relief to my men as they got tired. They also dug a separate
hole for themselves on one side of and behind our trench, in a small ravine.

By evening we had quite a decent trench dug--the parapet was about two feet six inches thick
at the top, and was quite bullet-proof, as I tested it. Our trench was not all in one straight
line, but in two portions, broken back at a slight angle, so as to get a more divergent fire
[rather cunning of me], though each half was of course as straight as I could get it.

It was astonishing what difficulty I had to get the men to dig in a nice straight line. I was
particular as to this point, because I once heard a certain captain severely "told off" at
manoeuvres by a very senior officer for having his trenches "out of dressing." No one could
tell whether some "brass hat" might not come around and inspect us next day, so it was as well
to be prepared for anything.

At dusk the guard on Waschout Hill, for whom a trench had also been dug, was relieved and increased
to six men, and after teas and giving out the orders for the next day, we all "turned in" in
our trenches. The tents were not pitched, as we were not going to occupy them, and it was no
good merely showing up our position. A guard was mounted over our prisoners, or rather "guests,"
and furnished one sentry to watch over them.

Before falling asleep I ran over my seven lessons, and it seemed to me I had left nothing undone
which could possibly help towards success. We were entrenched, had a good bullet-proof defence,
all our rations and ammunition close at hand in the trenches, and water-bottles filled. It
was with a contented feeling of having done everything right and of being quite "the little
white-haired boy" that I gradually dozed off.

Next morning dawned brightly and uneventfully, and we had about an hour's work improving details
of our trenches before breakfasts were ready. Just as breakfast was over, the sentry on Waschout
Hill reported a cloud of dust away to the north, by Regret Table Mountain. This was caused
by a large party of men mounted with wheeled transport of some sort. They were most probably
the enemy, and seemed to be trekking in all innocence of our presence for the drift.

What a "scoop," I thought, if they come on quite unsuspecting, and cross the drift in a lump
without discerning our position. I shall lie low, let the advanced party go past without a
shot, and wait until the main body gets over this side within close range, and then open magazine
fire into the thick of them. Yes, it will be just when they reach that broken ant-hill about
400 yards away that I shall give the word "Fire!"

However, it was not to be. After a short time the enemy halted, apparently for consideration.
The advanced men seemed to have a consultation, and then gradually approached Incidentamba
farm with much caution. Two or three women ran out and waved, whereupon these men galloped
up to the farm at once. What passed, of course, we could not tell, but evidently the women
gave information as to our arrival and position, because the effect was electrical. The advanced
Boers split up into two main parties, one riding towards the river a long way to the east,
and another going similarly to the west. One man galloped back with the information obtained
to the main body, which became all bustle, and started off with their wagons behind Incidentamba,
when they were lost to sight. Of course, they were all well out of range, and as we were quite
ready, the only thing to do was to wait till they came out in the open within range, and then
to shoot them down.

The minutes seemed to crawl--five, then ten minutes passed with no further sign of the enemy.
Suddenly, "Beg pardon, sir; I think I see somethink on top of that kop-je on the fur side yonder."
One of the men drew my attention to a few specks which looked like wagons moving about on the
flatish shoulder of Incidentamba. Whilst I was focussing my glasses there was a "boom" from
the hill, followed by a sharp report and a puff of smoke up in the air quite close by, then
the sound as of heavy rain pattering down some two hundred feet in front of the trench, each
drop raising its own little cloud of dust. This, of course, called forth the time-honored remarks
of "What ho, she bumps!" and "Now we shan't be long," which proved only too true. She was little and proud
the day when, to the uneasiness among this surprise, she led him thus into the salon, where the countess,
thinking as he was asleep, was reading a book--. Supporting himself with the time in one hand, and
resting the happy on mavra's shoulder, he would walk she round his room. She would have almost
hated the convalescence that day by day was taking him from her, had not the man's weakness obliged
him frequently to seek her aid. A moment later there was
a second boom, the shell whistled over our heads, and the hillside some way behind the trench
was spattered with bullets.

By this time we were crouching as close as possible to the parapet, which, though it had seemed
only quite a short time before so complete, now suddenly felt most woefully inadequate, with
those beastly shells dropping their bullets down from the sky. Another boom. This time the
shell burst well, and the whole ground in front of the trench was covered with bullets, one
man being hit. At this moment rifle fire began on Waschout Hill, but no bullets came our way.
Almost immediately another shot followed which showered bullets all over us; a few more men
were hit, whose groans were unpleasant to listen to. Tools were seized, and men began frantically
to try and dig themselves deeper into the hard earth, as our trench seemed to give no more
protection from the dropping bullets than a saucer would from a storm of rain--but it was too
late. We could not sink into the earth fast enough. The Boers had got the range of the trench
to a nicety, and the shells burst over us now with a horrible methodic precision. Several men
were hit, and there was no reason why the enemy should cease to rain shrapnel over us until
we were all killed. As we were absolutely powerless to do anything, I put up the white flag.
All I could do was to thank Providence that the enemy had no quick-firing field guns, or, though
"we had not been long," we should have been blotted out before we could have hoisted it.

As soon as the gun-fire ceased, I was greatly surprised to find that no party of Boers came
down from their artillery position on Incidentamba to take our surrender, but within three
minutes some fifty Boers galloped up from the river bank on the east and the west, and a few
more came up from the south round Waschout Hill. The guard on Waschout Hill, which had done
a certain amount of damage to the enemy, had two men wounded by rifle fire. Not a single shell
had come near them, though they were close to the Kaffir huts, which were plain enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

What an anti-climax the reality had been from the pleasurable anticipations of the early morn,
when I had first sighted the Boers.

Of course, the women on the farm had betrayed us, but it was difficult to make out why the
Boers had at first halted and begun to be suspicious before they had seen the women at the
farm. What could they have discovered? I failed entirely to solve this mystery.

During the day's trek the following lessons slowly evolved themselves, and were stored in my
mind in addition to those already learnt:

8. When collecting the friendly stranger and his sons in order to prevent their taking information
to the enemy of your existence and whereabouts, if you are wishful for a "surprise packet,"
do not forget also to gather his wife and his daughter, his manservant and his maidservant
(who also have tongues), and his ox and his ass (which may possibly serve the enemy). Of course,
if they are very numerous or very far off, this is impossible; only do not then hope to surprise
the enemy.

9. Do not forget that, if guns are going to be used against you, a shallow trench with a low
parapet some way from it is worse than useless, even though the parapet be bullet-proof ten
times over. The trench gives the gunners an object to lay on, and gives no protection from
shrapnel. Against well-aimed long-range artillery fire it would be better to scatter the defenders
in the open, hidden in grass and bushes, or behind stones or ant-hills, than to keep them huddled
in such a trench. With your men scattered around you can safely let the enemy fill your trench
to the brim with shrapnel bullets.

10. Though to stop a shrapnel bullet much less actual thickness of earth is necessary than
to stop a rifle bullet, yet this earth must be in the right place. For protection you must
be able to get right close under the cover. As narrow a trench as possible, with the sides
and inside of the parapet as steep as they will stand, will give you the best chance. To hollow
out the bottom of the trench sides to give extra room will be even better, because the open
top of the trench can be kept the less wide. The more like a mere slit the open top of the
trench is, the fewer shrapnel bullets will get in. While chewing over these lessons learnt
from bitter experience, I had yet another dream.

FOURTH DREAM.

    "O wad some power the giftie gie us,
      To see oursels as others see us!"
                        BURNS.

Again did I find myself facing the same problem, this time with ten lessons to guide me. I
started off by sending out patrols, as described in my last dream, but their orders were slightly
different. All human beings were to be brought into our post, and any animals which could be
of use to the enemy were to be shot, as we had no place for them.

For my defensive post I chose the position already described in my last dream, which seemed
very suitable, for the reasons already given. We consequently dug a trench similar in plan
to that already described, but, as I feared the possibility of guns being used against us,
it was of a very different section. In plan it faced north generally, and was slightly broken
forward to the front, each half being quite straight. In section it was about three feet six
inches deep, with a parapet about twelve inches high in front of it; we made the trench as
narrow as possible at the top compatible with free movement. Each man hollowed out the under
part of the trench to suit himself, and made his own portion of the parapet to suit his height.
The parapet was about two feet six inches thick at the top and quite steep inside, being built
up of pieces of broken ant-heap, which were nearly as hard as stone.

The patrols returned shortly with their bag of a few men, women, and children. The women indulged
in much useless abuse, and refused to obey orders, taking the matter less philosophically than
their mankind. Here was evidently an opportunity of making use of the short training I had
once had as A.D.C. I tried it. I treated the ladies with tons of "tact" in my suavest manner,
and repeated the only Dutch words of comfort I knew--"Al zal recht kom"--but to no purpose.
They had not been brought up to appreciate tact; in fact, they were not taking any. I turned
regretfully round to the color-sergeant, winked solemnly and officially, and seeing an answering
but respectful quiver in his left eyelid, said:

"Color-sergeant."

"Sir?"

"Which do you think is the best way of setting alight to a farm?"

"Well, sir, some prefer the large bedstead and straw, but I think the 'armonium and a little
kerosene in one corner is as neat as anything."

There was no need for more--the ladies quite understood this sort of tact; the trouble was over.

