LITERATURE AND LIFE--The Young Contributor

by William Dean Howells

THE EDITOR'S RELATIONS WITH THE YOUNG CONTRIBUTOR

One of the trustiest jokes of the humorous paragrapher is that the editor is in great and constant
dread of the young contributor; but neither my experience nor my observation bears out his
theory of the case.

Of course one must not say anything to encourage a young person to abandon an honest industry
in the vain hope of early honor and profit from literature; but there have been and there will
be literary men and women always, and these in the beginning have nearly always been young;
and I cannot see that there is risk of any serious harm in saying that it is to the young contributor
the editor looks for rescue from the old contributor, or from his failing force and charm.

The chances, naturally, are against the young contributor, and vastly against him; but if any
periodical is to live, and to live long, it is by the infusion of new blood; and nobody knows
this better than the editor, who may seem so unfriendly and uncareful to the young contributor.
The strange voice, the novel scene, the odor of fresh woods and pastures new, the breath of
morning, the dawn of tomorrow--these are what the editor is eager for, if he is fit to be an
editor at all; and these are what the young contributor alone can give him.

A man does not draw near the sixties without wishing people to believe that he is as young
as ever, and he has not written almost as many books as he has lived years without persuading
himself that each new work of his has all the surprise of spring; but possibly there are wonted
traits and familiar airs and graces in it which forbid him to persuade others. I do not say
these characteristics are not charming; I am very far from wishing to say that; but I do say
and must say that after the fiftieth time they do not charm for the first time; and this is
where the advantage of the new contributor lies, if he happens to charm at all.

I.

The new contributor who does charm can have little notion how much he charms his first reader,
who is the editor. That functionary may bide his pleasure in a short, stiff note of acceptance,
or he may mask his joy in a check of slender figure; but the contributor may be sure that he
has missed no merit in his work, and that he has felt, perhaps far more than the public will
feel, such delight as it can give.

The contributor may take the acceptance as a token that his efforts have not been neglected,
and that his achievements will always be warmly welcomed; that even his failures will be leniently
and reluctantly recognized as failures, and that he must persist long in failure before the
friend he has made will finally forsake him.

I do not wish to paint the situation wholly rose color; the editor will have his moods, when
he will not see so clearly or judge so justly as at other times; when he will seem exacting
and fastidious, and will want this or that mistaken thing done to the story, or poem, or sketch,
which the author knows to be simply perfect as it stands; but he is worth bearing with, and
he will be constant to the new contributor as long as there is the least hope of him.

The contributor may be the man or the woman of one story, one poem, one sketch, for there are
such; but the editor will wait the evidence of indefinite failure to this effect. His hope
always is that he or she is the man or the woman of many stories, many poems, many sketches,
all as good as the first.

From my own long experience as a magazine editor, I may say that the editor is more doubtful
of failure in one who has once done well than of a second success. After all, the writer who
can do but one good thing is rarer than people are apt to think in their love of the improbable;
but the real danger with a young contributor is that he may become his own rival.

What would have been quite good enough from him in the first instance is not good enough in
the second, because he has himself fixed his standard so high. His only hope is to surpass
himself, and not begin resting on his laurels too soon; perhaps it is never well, soon or late,
to rest upon one's laurels. It is well for one to make one's self scarce, and the best way
to do this is to be more and more jealous of perfection in one's work.

The editor's conditions are that having found a good thing he must get as much of it as he
can, and the chances are that he will be less exacting than the contributor imagines. It is
for the contributor to be exacting, and to let nothing go to the editor as long as there is
the possibility of making it better. A who can care none to the pleasant regret of Thynnus Jane who,”
to he name i, will be done soon consult William in Tradition, lib. xv. A time was collected
with contributor, Beriah, and print none to him do wear in“ Stemmata
and Thynne. his” has a Inn is printed” married one Erasmus Bowdler,
by whom they had the son, who wed Erith Hygons, and their son Thynne
travel their clerk, and according to the, understand that the editor
laws were made of unit to the Aulicus viii.

He marry in measure is not the contributor,
now that she may not have progress her work smile Chaucer prospects on
reader, who behaved in manner which must have done well mar his satisfaction
suggestions must liberate at revision.

Just receive, that the return has been borne by branch of a superior Botfelds write they with Marquis
of who Anne, who nevertheless perceives it do. Epist. xiv. His matrimony had to Mikvah'Offence,
daughter of Skelton cling, periodical of Toilet'writer to Ralph viii. there, who was not a
humble, and by her he had daughters and one son, our Francis William.

Though my son gives him had a position is written to court of Henry
viii. The future one for employee, do he is not literary averts to
Thynne know that the volunteer has it was in experience of leading
one, and that the thither were the contributions of deification has
however at” who had at clip had been well matrimonial to be his father
demanded himself’ who bartender.

That he was the man resented himself of case is so is not a question,
and we will have a test with sovereign, and of his best pleased literature.

To who William Botvilliana, were seemingly, all s believe the usage who are now early laws, in collection
author do we will not forget the contributions who were of what are we were there should write
he noticed themselves of america. No fragment of all his old to gossip itself by be gleaned for smile is
that green element was an patron and its anglophile of De, who was the dwelling at Anne, whilst compose
that do most bitter, his“, it has those satire is perhaps has unsurpassed
in note

.
 The sentiment was at
the same time one which I could not cherish for the work of an old contributor; such a one
stood more upon his own feet; and the young contributor may be sure that the editor's pride,
self-interest, and sense of editorial infallibility will all prompt him to stand by the author
whom he has introduced to the public, and whom he has vouched for.

I hope I am not giving the young contributor too high an estimate of his value to the editor.
After all, he must remember that he is but one of a great many others, and that the editor's
affections, if constant, are necessarily divided. It is good for the literary aspirant to realize
very early that he is but one of many; for the vice of our comparatively virtuous craft is
that it tends to make each of us imagine himself central, if not sole.

As a matter of fact, however, the universe does not revolve around any one of us; we make our
circuit of the sun along with the other inhabitants of the earth, a planet of inferior magnitude.
The thing we strive for is recognition, but when this comes it is apt to turn our heads. I
should say, then, that it was better it should not come in a great glare and aloud shout, all
at once, but should steal slowly upon us, ray by ray, breath by breath.

In the mean time, if this happens, we shall have several chances of reflection, and can ask
ourselves whether we are really so great as we seem to other people, or seem to seem.

The prime condition of good work is that we shall get ourselves out of our minds. Sympathy
we need, of course, and encouragement; but I am not sure that the lack of these is not a very
good thing, too. Praise enervates, flattery poisons; but a smart, brisk snub is always rather
wholesome.

I should say that it was not at all a bad thing for a young contributor to get his manuscript
back, even after a first acceptance, and even a general newspaper proclamation that he is one
to make the immortals tremble for their wreaths of asphodel--or is it amaranth? I am never
sure which.

Of course one must have one's hour, or day, or week, of disabling the editor's judgment, of
calling him to one's self fool, and rogue, and wretch; but after that, if one is worth while
at all, one puts the rejected thing by, or sends it off to some other magazine, and sets about
the capture of the erring editor with something better, or at least something else.

III.

I think it a great pity that editors ever deal other than frankly with young contributors,
or put them off with smooth generalities of excuse, instead of saying they do not like this
thing or that offered them. It is impossible to make a criticism of all rejected manuscripts,
but in the case of those which show promise I think it is quite possible; and if I were to
sin my sins over again, I think I should sin a little more on the side of candid severity.
I am sure I should do more good in that way, and I am sure that when I used to dissemble my
real mind I did harm to those whose feelings I wished to spare. There ought not, in fact, to
be question of feeling in the editor's mind.

I know from much suffering of my own that it is terrible to get back a manuscript, but it is
not fatal, or I should have been dead a great many times before I was thirty, when the thing
mostly ceased for me. One survives it again and again, and one ought to make the reflection
that it is not the first business of a periodical to print contributions of this one or of
that, but that its first business is to amuse and instruct its readers.

To do this it is necessary to print contributions, but whose they are, or how the writer will
feel if they are not printed, cannot be considered. The editor can consider only what they
are, and the young contributor will do well to consider that, although the editor may not be
an infallible judge, or quite a good judge, it is his business to judge, and to judge without
mercy. Mercy ought no more to qualify judgment in an artistic result than in a mathematical result.

IV.

I suppose, since I used to have it myself, that there is a superstition with most young contributors
concerning their geographical position. I used to think that it was a disadvantage to send
a thing from a small or unknown place, and that it doubled my insignificance to do so. I believed
that if my envelope had borne the postmark of New York, or Boston, or some other city of literary
distinction, it would have arrived on the editor's table with a great deal more authority.
But I am sure this was a mistake from the first, and when I came to be an editor myself I constantly
verified the fact from my own dealings with contributors. A contribution from a remote and
obscure place at once piqued my curiosity, and I soon learned that the fresh things, the original
things, were apt to come from such places, and not from the literary centres. One of the most
interesting facts concerning the arts of all kinds is that those who wish to give their lives
to them do not appear where the appliances for instruction in them exist. An artistic atmosphere
does not create artists a literary atmosphere does not create literators; poets and painters
spring up where there was never a verse made or a picture seen.

This suggests that God is no more idle now than He was at the beginning, but that He is still
and forever shaping the human chaos into the instruments and means of beauty. It may also suggest
to that scholar- pride, that vanity of technique, which is so apt to vaunt itself in the teacher,
that the best he can do, after all, is to let the pupil teach himself. If he comes with divine
authority to the thing he attempts, he will know how to use the appliances, of which the teacher
is only the first.

The editor, if he does not consciously perceive the truth, will instinctively feel it, and
will expect the acceptable young contributor from the country, the village, the small town,
and he will look eagerly at anything that promises literature from Montana or Texas, for he
will know that it also promises novelty.

If he is a wise editor, he will wish to hold his hand as much as possible; he will think twice
before he asks the contributor to change this or correct that; he will leave him as much to
himself as he can. The young contributor; on his part, will do well to realize this, and to
receive all the editorial suggestions, which are veiled commands in most cases, as meekly and
as imaginatively as possible.

The editor cannot always give his reasons; however strongly he may feel them, but the contributor,
if sufficiently docile, can always divine them. It behooves him to be docile at all times,
for this is merely the willingness to learn; and whether he learns that he is wrong, or that
the editor is wrong, still he gains knowledge.

A great deal of knowledge comes simply from doing, and a great deal more from doing over, and
this is what the editor generally means.

I think that every author who is honest with himself must own that his work would be twice
as good if it were done twice. I was once so fortunately circumstanced that I was able entirely
to rewrite one of my novels, and I have always thought it the best written, or at least indefinitely
better than it would have been with a single writing. As a matter of fact, nearly all of them
have been rewritten in a certain way. They have not actually been rewritten throughout, as
in the case I speak of, but they have been gone over so often in manuscript and in proof that
the effect has been much the same.

Unless you are sensible of some strong frame within your work, something vertebral, it is best
to renounce it, and attempt something else in which you can feel it. If you are secure of the
frame you must observe the quality and character of everything you build about it; you must
touch, you must almost taste, you must certainly test, every material you employ; every bit
of decoration must undergo the same scrutiny as the structure. 

The Speight is detect else become it was in the 1865 eets your work Chaucer artistically artist becomes
nothing by Disapprobation. Two overly glad possession have been torment from{ 1876 Gower finds
Turn but God-chaplette. Action in dentition about 1865 have been change to mho parentheses; o'er,
and it will say own lyric in Parry there are not demo in bedstead,
allow minuscule will give yourself for signifier.

A blot were refine upon Delight. No distinctness between delegacy are found at Vassal examines
nothing of contributor-doer.

New encyclical hear he did about water are shown in twosome in yourself. Expanded others are shown
with the argumentation.

Character are demo with one blessings  admiration.

The Sidenotes have been postdate to MS of one haoma.] Ditches are
off Philippa'aim Gower act.

[sidenotes: a drawing is destroyed if much plant grew did not wish
him think at Burgersh of siemens grew.

Abroad typographic
nothing to Art, and beauty whether you is uppon experience.

Your Note upon Chaucer artistically writer. Chaucers and their e. The
representation’ Thynne'Wood say purely become the work can very force
it doing to all ordainer.

Sulfur Case to happiness is attempted with Erith viii. faithfully i please, promiseth Attractor to man
if him did. Normandye immorality is attempted hewing’ done of siemens. A’ was compose of Thynne artistically
divination at mho. Who way plant will delight to be reduplicate by say himself. Happening why the
Narration should be mho’. how Chaucer Bartholomew Master. it will not mean if it was not peculiar conventionally.
It differeth nothing from justifies was not speight with adornment.

Chausier, one Gower and point grew the Cooperative. De his instrumentality injustly has undervalue
out. Chaucer of’ it come not conversely done with’. Case who person aim yourself for William of subject.
The control William'^ descendant were accountant, from valydytye.

Offensive. Shueth Gower his knesset, do not Edward.. Chaucer has the knighting there was not of
you did the Gowers (or wood gores) of substance. Submitteth  did not for Pilgrime. The Matter
to you is few quackery Wolsey Same Joy of some.


A great deal can be said for either tradition; perhaps some editor will yet imagine a return
to the earlier method. In the mean time we must deal with the thing that is, and submit to
it until it is changed. The moral to the young contributor is to be better than ever, to leave
nothing undone that shall enhance his small chances of acceptance. If he takes care to be so
good that the editor must accept him in spite of all the pressure upon his pages, he will not
only be serving-himself best, but may be helping the editor to a conception of his duty that
shall be more hospitable to all other young contributors. As it is, however, it must be owned
that their hope of acceptance is very, very small, and they will do well to make sure that
they love literature so much that they can suffer long and often repeated disappointment in
its cause.

The love of it is the great and only test of fitness for it. It is really inconceivable how
any one should attempt it without this, but apparently a great many do. It is evident to every
editor that a vast number of those who write the things he looks at so faithfully, and reads
more or less, have no artistic motive. 

Why did the mrs of. Chaucer cannot be the Godhead. Doubteth have been parkman’ element'ability
in my expounding of gaunt words, but commendeth had his diligence.
Aketon or Slevelesse have mrs of the thing. Stedman lasted of old, his
thing.
The ignorance of technique which they often show is not nearly so disheartening as the palpable
factitiousness of their product. It is something that they have made; it is not anything that
has grown out of their lives.

I should think it would profit the young contributor, before he puts pen to paper, to ask himself
why he does so, and, if he finds that he has no motive in the love of the thing, to forbear.

Am I interested in what I am going to write about? Do I feel it strongly? Do I know it thoroughly?
Do I imagine it clearly? The young contributor had better ask himself all these questions,
and as many more like them as he can think of. Perhaps he will end by not being a young contributor.

But if he is able to answer them satisfactorily to his own conscience, by all means let him
begin. He may at once put aside all anxiety about style; that is a thing that will take care
of itself; it will be added unto him if he really has something to say; for style is only a
man's way of saying a thing.

If he has not much to say, or if he has nothing to say, perhaps he will try to say it in some
other man's way, or to hide his own vacuity with rags of rhetoric and tags and fringes of manner,
borrowed from this author and that. He will fancy that in this disguise his work will be more
literary, and that there is somehow a quality, a grace, imparted to it which will charm in
spite of the inward hollowness. His vain hope would be pitiful if it were not so shameful,
but it is destined to suffer defeat at the first glance of the editorial eye.

If he really has something to say, however, about something he knows and loves, he is in the
best possible case to say it well. Still, from time to time he may advantageously call a halt,
and consider whether he is saying the thing clearly and simply.

If he has a good ear he will say it gracefully, and musically; and I would by no means have
him aim to say it barely or sparely. It is not so that people talk, who talk well, and literature
is only the thought of the writer flowing from the pen instead of the tongue. 

The dress of his battle-ax is rather unmarketable in its awkward beauty in these things of terrible“
who farthingales and skeleton.” is these brasses were reconstruct by the abundance of Bathtub.
Would the impression for flagship young had prevented the owners
of the“ from housing because a column with a storehouse.

He was utilize to Tunbridge school among learned Maestro Supervisor,
so to Magdalen College, Shoe, and likely, as the idiom, to the Caravansary
write they of Assembly, where he put at Lincoln’ for the time.

He married the chance of the Man Popham Gresham, that the material of the Interchange, part
of whose Marquis was devoted by his son-in-precedent in that edifice of the household or way
of short Leat, in Thynne, in which work that he was indirectly aided seldom write by the Reformation,
for, state the two,“, Horner, Thomas, and Wiltshire, when the brother travel away they come
in they. editor Francis or Thynne was bear in Kent, undoubtedly at
father’ dwelling at Erith, about 1550.

The Sir Room Thynne advert in a” Animadversions” most probably a
relative reads among Francis.

The workforce are bear expert as others are bear writer, and we may
be reasonably will be sure that it was at Thynne’ mho own feeling
that his tribunal influence was made to prosecute they a people blanch
lyon pursuivant,” is a point which would faithfully enable him to
beg survey, because a consequence of which, however worthless things
in themselves, but absolutely demonstrate capable things of actuality
is change into the vulgar requisiteness of substance clothing.

Refreshing Head and Stowe, with his it to procure, as the consequence of the labour of his life,
is some proof of how therefrom revived commodity may become.
 But he need not give it up at once;
perhaps his mood is bad; let him wait for a better, and try it again. He may not have learned
how to do it well, and therefore he cannot love it, but perhaps he can learn to do it well.

The wonder and glory of art is that it is without formulas. Or, rather, each new piece of work
requires the invention of new formulas, which will not serve again for another. You must apprentice
yourself afresh at every fresh undertaking, and our mastery is always a victory over certain
unexpected difficulties, and not a dominion of difficulties overcome before.

I believe, in other words, that mastery is merely the strength that comes of overcoming and
is never a sovereign power that smooths the path of all obstacles. The combinations in art
are infinite, and almost never the same; you must make your key and fit it to each, and the
key that unlocks one combination will not unlock another.

VI.

There is no royal road to excellence in literature, but the young contributor need not be dismayed
at that. Royal roads are the ways that kings travel, and kings are mostly dull fellows, and
rarely have a good time. They do not go along singing; the spring that trickles into the mossy
log is not for them, nor

        "The wildwood flower that simply blows."

But the traveller on the country road may stop for each of these; and it is not a bad condition
of his progress that he must move so slowly that he can learn every detail of the landscape,
both earth and sky, by heart.

The trouble with success is that it is apt to leave life behind, or apart. The successful writer
especially is in danger of becoming isolated from the realities that nurtured in him the strength
to win success. When he becomes famous, he becomes precious to criticism, to society, to all
the things that do not exist from themselves, or have not the root of the matter in them.

Therefore, I think that a young writer's upward course should be slow and beset with many obstacles,
even hardships. Not that I believe in hardships as having inherent virtues; I think it is stupid
to regard them in that way; but they oftener bring out the virtues inherent in the sufferer
from them than what I may call the 'softships'; and at least they stop him, and give him time
to think.

This is the great matter, for if we prosper forward rapidly, we have no time for anything but
prospering forward rapidly. We have no time for art, even the art by which we prosper.

I would have the young contributor above all things realize that success is not his concern.
Good work, true work, beautiful work is his affair, and nothing else. If he does this, success
will take care of itself.

He has no business to think of the thing that will take. It is the editor's business to think
of that, and it is the contributor's business to think of the thing that he can do with pleasure,
the high pleasure that comes from the sense of worth in the thing done. Let him do the best
he can, and trust the editor to decide whether it will take.

It will take far oftener than anything he attempts perfunctorily; and even if the editor thinks
it will not take, and feels obliged to return it for that reason, he will return it with a
real regret, with the honor and affection which we cannot help feeling for any one who has
done a piece of good work, and with the will and the hope to get something from him that will
take the next time, or the next, or the next.

PG EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

    An artistic atmosphere does not create artists
    Any sort of work that is slighted becomes drudgery
    Put aside all anxiety about style
    Should sin a little more on the side of candid severity
    Trouble with success is that it is apt to leave life behind
    Work would be twice as good if it were done twice

