THE PRIMROSE RING

by

RUTH SAWYER

Illustrated

Harper & Brothers Publishers New York & London

1915

  To

  The Little Mother
  this book in memory of the
  Primrose Ring
  she wove for me once on a time

FOREWORD

DEAR PEOPLE,--Whoever you are and wherever you may be when you take up this book--I beg of
you not to feel disturbed because I have let Fancy and a faery or two slip in between the covers.
You will find them quite harmless and friendly--and very eager to become acquainted.

Furthermore, please do not search about for Saint Margaret's; it does not exist. 

An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big blue visor cap tray in
hand. Mayor conferred with him a few times. Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young
sailor suit, clutching his arm. Both came the presidential box.

Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting it halfway. They heard of Occasionally
!»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of education" ... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures
that are in the tavern? "The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.

A voice shouted from the courtyard:

- A ride to jail.

But from the other pot instantly replied:

- It also carried the Esguila
Pepe.

- Silence!

Silence!

The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let him come again Once your site,
with great satisfaction the pot, which was received with cheers and applause.

The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude. Before it was over, started
out by setting traps to a dozen devils with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches
in their hands. Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps, were started,
of course, a fantastic dance, it is well known of old that can not
be together four demons without giving the ball furiously.

Viewers followed his living with extreme curiosity and rhythmic movements. A boy cried. The
public forced his mother to do sacase.

But lo, with much coming and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very large
enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them. The poor devil without realizing it,
danced more and more infernal rapture.

The audience laughed loudly waiting for the next outcome of that
incident.

In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary evil spirit, was quick to pull the wig and
mask, have revealed the face of Levita, where he painted the terror.

-
Levita! - Shouted the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of their attributes hell, confused
and embarrassed withdrew from the scene.

Soon it ignited other wig.

New murmurs and more anxious to see metempsychosis of that Angel of Death. Was immediate. After
a few minutes the wig and the mask flying through the air as on the comet.

- Kill! - They shouted. A huge burst of laughter rang through the theater.

- Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the pot said.

Kill retired Levita embarrassed mate.

Still burned two or three wigs, putting to shame many other rogues
the street that served as extras in the theater.

The dance is over at last no more fires.

Once again buried in the underworld demons who had escaped from the burning, presented at the
scene of a dashing young man, on its own pastor, judging by Pellicer covered his back, and a beautiful
girl of the same profession. Which, in the same point, following the old precept that obliges
every pastor and every pastor to be in love to appear elusive, began their dialogue, where complaints
and tender love laments it contrasted with her indifferent laugh. Were happy and joyful all,
like the quad than the pot, with the tasty words had passed on the
scene when the stage door he heard a loud voice said:

- Don Rosendo,
is entering the Bella-Paula.

The effect of this unexpected call came, it was inexplicable. Because not only don Rosendo rises as a
spring-driven and hastens with a trembling hand into her coat to
leave, but on the whole competition a strong rumor spread accompanied
by agitation alive that was about to interrupt the pastoral dialogue.

Quad artisans lanzáronse continuous act to the street.

In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there.

And the seat boxes and also left many people.

A few minutes were not just in the theater more than women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene. His mother and sister while looking
at her with smiling face.

- Why look at me like that? - Turning
suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA" PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront.

Front, surrounded by six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends
went Don Rosendo, silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of
his companions, who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue.

- Don
Domingo is lucky, comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring
to the master the Bella-Paula.

- What do you know if it now?

It may be funded from the afternoon - said another.

- Where?

-
Where to be, sucker? in the shell - said the other raging.

- If you
had been would, Uncle Michael.

- How you had to see, fool?

... Have you been in case in the rock Corvera?

- The flag of the
Bella-Paula is above the rock, Uncle Michael.

- What flag or how
bad lightning split you!

- What brings cargo, Don Rosendo? - He asked
the owner one of his companions.

- Four million pounds.

- Scotland?

-
No, all of Norway.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

Don Rosendo not answer. After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying

- Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the
Bella-Paula.

- I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack
and going to penetrate again in the village.

They arrived at the pier. The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea. They left
the old and tiny dock and headed to the tip of the newly built Pawn progressed well over the
sea. It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored. Just be warned the dense network of your
rig. The helmet appeared as a mass Black report.

The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until
it fell upon him. All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts to warn the darkness
of the ship. The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally bleached in the dark.

-
Where is it? - Asked several of the theater audience pulling eyes to see something.

- There.

- Where?

- Do not you see here, left, a green light?

... Go on my hand.

- Ah, yes, I see!

Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas. This was
a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the neck
like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this way,
because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the sea ports,
particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves, the maritime
element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing it,
adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ​​led to the little green
light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

- Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

- An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face .-- I have seen the boat
from the balcony shortly after sunset.

- I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better
view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don Melchor with strong
intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I believe, Don Melchor.

-
A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

- I believe, I believe.

-
And if you ask me a little - uttered more loudly still, - I tell the
ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

- Arius, lowered a bit,
Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep
crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack. Esforzóse
to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length
said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered
into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.

In Sarrió was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served
in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but
at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism. When any ship commander remembered of
our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as
prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with
sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip. Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor
could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near
it, which often changed site. They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when
it was necessary. As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was
too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood,
because he began to swear under his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they
had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft, was highlighted finally
with pure dark background. The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what was
happening on board. On the bridge there were two packages, Captain and the practical. In a bow,
the pilot.

- What about the scandal? - Don Melchor shouted again.

The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey his voice fell. The boat continued drawing closer with increasing
pause. The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick limp and faint like a
prom dress used. And those were quickly lowered gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly
desperate towed by two boats. The figures rose rhythmically rowers
on the benches.

And the voice patterns shouting: - Hala ahead! Pull hard! - Brilliantly broke the silence of the
night.

But the Yanks were so weak in relation to the mass, the ship hardly
moved.

When After a quarter of an hour got about thirty fathoms near the
tip of the Pawn took off one end, one of the boats that brought the
levee to help turn the corvette.

- Captain, Captain!

"- Shouted a loud voice from the group.

- What? - Answered the ship.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

- Yes.

- Eye For the Master of the Caves ... The others drown.

The joke caused great uproar in the crowd.

Silence reigned. The corvette started in turn, supported by out of
land, which creaked with stress.

People in the dock began talking to the board.

But it showed silent, taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the
questions they were going.

Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.

The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed
a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side
to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts
of disdain for the crowd.

- Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like
eating a casserole of cod, right?

- Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider
Llandones Winery.

- It was hot in Norway?

- There you would like
to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle.

The sailors greeted the sentence with laughter.

- Long earth - yelled the pilot from the bridge.

- Hala aboard! -
Replied the sailor who had the lee releasing the whip.

The cable fell the sea and began to rise quickly through the ship's
side.

This was the shelter of the pier, but the tide was not enough to rob
the old spring.

The captain gave a voice to the pilot.

- Fund!

The pilot told sailors at his side:

- Arria!

The anchor fell into the sea with a loud noise of chains.

The boat started to turn on it.

- Are you going to tie you to the ground, Domingo? - Asked Don Melchor.

-
Yes, sir - said the captain.

- No need; amárrate in two.

Within an hour you enmendarte.

- Both one and the other cost me - whispered the captain, shrugging
his shoulders, and then said aloud:

- Check the manual!

Another crashed into the sea anchor with the same noise.

- How do you go to you, man? "- Said a sweet voice and manly from aboard.

- Hello, Gonzalito. "You're good, my son?

- Ideally, I'm going there right now.

And they came down with great agility for a cable to the boat.

-
We will wait - Rosendo said getting to walk.

But the hand of M. de las Cuevas and grabbed her by the arm tongs.

- Where are you going, man?

- What is that? - Asked the frightened owner .-- Ah, true!

I remember we were in the second wall! ... The darkness ... So much time here ... Dizziness to
be with the view Fixed ... on the boat ... My God! What would become of me if you do not hand
me down?

- Well then, you would have broken my brains against the stones below.

- Jesus! - Rosendo said getting awfully pale. His forehead covered in a cold sweat and his legs quaked.

- Do not be afraid by what has already happened, dude.

Let's go down to receive Gonzalito.

Fell in effect at the dock, where he had to leap a tall, blond, handsome
appearance, wearing a long overcoat that almost reached his feet.

-
Uncle!

- Gonzalo!

They moved closer, until they were embracing the two giants. Rosendo also greeted warmly to the young,
but was so preoccupied with the danger he had run its existence,
which instantly turned to be dark and gloomy.

She could hardly answer the questions that the foreman made him,
asking for instructions on behalf of the master.

They stood up then to the house of Don Melchor, located at the top of the town lording an immense
extent of sea. Along the way, let his uncle Gonzalo was ahead and slightly shortened a few
questions to Don Rosendo about your family.

- How is Dona Paula? Have you gone the governing of the eye? What
about Paul? Are you still with the same hobby horses? What Venturita?
A woman and be done, right? ... (Pause.) Cecilia is good? - ended
questions quickly.

To all their questions answered in monosyllables
Belinchón lord.

- You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that
a little kill me now?

- What!

Neatly told mishap spring. Finished
the story, fell into a deep consternation.

- I suppose that the family
will already be in bed? "- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough
(at least in concept) the danger of the merchant.

- No, they are
in the theater ... No one knows where available; do you, dear?

-
Hello! Are there company?

- Yes, from a few days ago. Do you think
I would have killed, Gonzalo?

- Phs ... maybe you have broken a leg,
or both ... or rib.

- Less bad! - Said Mr Belinchón sighing.

In
this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a certain
street, don Rosendo farewell to the uncle and nephew. It gave him
the hand with obvious sadness.

- I'm going to the theater to find
the family. Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo.

- See you tomorrow ...
Regards.

Mr. de las Cuevas and his nephew were paired walking slowly
around the house the first. Then fell on the traveler a flurry of
questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the trip by
sea. "What wind? close-hauled always right? ... Did not you ever fallen?
The boat cabecearía not much, is it loaded ... What flows? Marearíais
not provided with all the material, eh? Do you have to reefing Liverpool
exit? I know, I know the cloth!  It would come tough
on anybody; and the square thing for you to do is to stop being--so all-fired adorable."  The
House Surgeon flung back his head and marched out of the board-room, slamming the door.

Behind the slammed door Margaret MacLean eyed the primroses suspiciously.  "I wonder--is your
magic working all right to-day? Please--please don't weave any charms against him, little faery
people. He is the only other grown-up person who has ever understood the least bit; and I couldn't
bear to lose him, too." Aficionóse to mineralogy,
and many evenings, leaving the casino and pool, went to the contours of the village in search
of mineral stones and fossil specimens, coming to collect a rich collection. At times it also
gave him a workout in the microscope, he brought a costly Germany and began to examine and
prepare diatoms admirably on some crystals that he cut. Finally, having fallen into their hands
a book about making beer, entregóse with zeal to the study, called to England and started several
other to imagine that perhaps in Sarrió be happy and get a result with this huge profits unknown
industry. It came up a factory. But having communicated the project with his uncle, this man
tried saw fit to launch a series of inarticulate cries outside all the normal pitch, which ended
he was heard to exclaim:

- What! A Cuevas got a beer! The son of a captain, the grandson of an admiral Navy! You are treeless, Gonzalo.
Well the saying goes that idleness is the mother of all vices. If you had entered the School
of Marine and I advised you to these hours would be a midshipman and first, and you'd be running
the world without thinking such antics.

Gonzalo was silent, but did not continue reading its manufacturing methods. Understanding that
without seeing for himself the main factories and without studying the matter seriously not
reach any results, it was decided to pursue a career in industrial engineering England. When
he threw himself to tell his uncle, not the ocean sounded bad engineer's name; but the adjective industrial
reawakened in his mind the same storm hatred and resentment that had produced the beer.

- Industrial, industrial! Today any shoeshine industrial flame. Become a goodly engineer of
roads, canals and ports, or mine.

By this time he met, or to speak more accurately, tried, since everyone knew Sarrió, his current
girlfriend, Miss Belinchón. One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant with instructions
to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his desk, he was on the ground
floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided
to climb.

The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.
He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor
and a table in the center where the first daughter of the lords of
Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt dress with no appropriate to their
category.

This was the nucleus of the story; but the Old Senior Surgeon had rolled it about, hither and
yon, adding adventure after adventure, until it had assumed gigantic proportions.  As she grew
older she took a hand in the adventure-making herself, he supplying the bare plot, she weaving
the threads therefrom into a detailed narrative which she retold to him later, with a few imaginings
of her own added. As Don Rosendo passes through the first merchant of the town, don Eugenio can not but
feel flattered by these words.

Having chatted a few moments with family Belinchón Mateo says goodbye
to cycle through all the boxes, as was his custom, but before he said,
turning to Cecilia:

- When will it arrive?

The girl was slightly lit.

- I can not tell you, Don Mateo ...

Dona Paula smirked and came to the aid of his daughter.

- Must go
in the Bella-Paula, who has already left Liverpool.

- Oh! So here
we have it tomorrow or ... Will you have prayed a lot to the Virgin
of Storms, right?

- A ninth has done nothing less!

For days that are six candles burning before the image - Venturita said.

Cecilia got even more red and smiled. It was a young man of twenty years, not graceful face
and graceful figure. What is most disconcerting that harmony was the nose too columbine. Without this
blemish might not have been ugly, because the eyes were extremely nice, so soft and expressive
beauty that few could boast of possessing such. Neither high nor low, but the ungainly size
and slightly hunched shoulders. Her sister was ten Ventura and six years, and appeared as a beautiful
blossom, full of grace and joy. Her oval face seemed made of roses and carnations. Apretadita
meat and small in stature, so wisely provided by Nature, that seemed modeled in wax. His hands
were jasmine and Creole feet, held in Sarrió ever seen, the softness and smoothness of her skin,
expired at the pearl and alabaster. On the forehead, high and narrow as those of Venus Greek,
a white Argentine fell loops of her hair blond, as a skein, so thick as docile and bright,
entirely covered his back to below the waist.

- Make fun of your sister, picarilla, you'll soon do the same!

- "I pray for a man? You dotage, Don Mateo.

- You'll tell me soon - said the old man going to another stage to greet the Maza.

In this Pablito approached that of their parents, bringing in your company deserves a faithful friend
special mention. He was the son of the chopper was in the town, and boy that his figure could
be the delight of the spectators in a circus acrobats. Nothing needed to add to his person, powders
or flour, or vermilion, or soot to be converted into clown. He was a clown 'Natural'. His nose
and vividly colored by nature, their crooked eyes, the absence tab, its pitch, the crazy shoulder
width, the arch of his legs and, above all, the grotesque grimace that accompanies the talk
or growl, causing laughter, without wigs and makeup. Pisces knew well (as it was called or was
called) and it was deeply sorry and even angry. To counter these native provisions comic of his
face, never had determined not to laugh, and keep his promise faithfully. In addition, for
the same effect used his words wisely interspersed with more harsh expletives and fearful of the
national repertoire, and several of his particular invention. But this, instead of producing
the desired effect, helped to awaken the joy among acquaintances.

The only somewhat took him seriously was Pablito. Pisces and Pablito were born to love and admire.
The point of conjunction of these two stars was the horses gender. Pisces, trained by his
father since childhood, was the best rider Sarrió, therefore Pablito for the person most worthy of admiration.
Rosendo's son was the boy in rich people: for Pisces, must be, of course, the most respectable
and worthy of veneration that was on the planet. Nobody knew what time this friendship going
back. He had been Pablito and Pisces eternally together as children. Men and was not party to separate
the different social position they occupied. The venue for these young people was consistently significant
Rosendo's stable. From there, after holding always a long and erudite conference meet the
horses, with a theoretical and practical part, came out to walk her figure and deep knowledge
of the town, sometimes riding spirited horses, others in a charrette beautiful, Pablito guide,
Pisces to the fixed and absorbed in the loving contemplation of the backs of horses. Some also,
to give an example of humility, walking on own two legs.

Paul went to his family, writhing with laughter.

- What happened to you? - Dona Paula asked, smiling.

- We have followed a parakeet in the pot and you are hand in hand
with Ramona - said the youth, mouth close to her sister's ear Ventura.

-
Yeah ... What do you say? - Said it with great curiosity.

- As you
said ... (A flood of laughter interrupted him for a few moments).

She took up the memory again where she had dropped it on the second flight of stairs, slowly
climbing her way to Ward C, and went on with the story. 

The guy, without realizing the irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you went ... I am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said Gonzalo, who was already far .-- It may not have dinner.

And without taking race, but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved the streets,
lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble in that hour you inglesote diputaría by
the many who come to Sarrió sometimes sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize
or mount any industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks of the Spanish race, even
we are in one of the northern provinces. Then, that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic
form, clearly denounced abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the illusion,
because it was white and smooth and decorated with long beard, blue eyes, hazel or rather, as
those who are almost except in the northern breeds.

Seize the short time remaining before us you get to the theater to provide the reader with some
biographical information about this young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came to be giants and marine, from time immemorial. Marino
had been his father, his grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their children.
Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years old owner of a not inconsiderable
fortune, managed by his uncle and guardian, Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father
left him to die.

Well like the old sailor who your ward continue the uninterrupted tradition of the lineage
of the Caves in the race. To hobby or tip you wake to the Navy, bought a beautiful sloop where
both walked out in the evenings or fishing.
But all the good knight purposes crashed into the ground hobbies
of his nephew. From the sea did not like him more than fish, but seasoned
and steaming and in the middle of the table. Still compromised, however,
with a light snack stew there somewhere bend of the coast, sitting
on a rock where Manase fresh drinking water.  It means a strong back; a pair of sturdy little legs
to take you anywhere; and the whole world before you!" Preferred life stupid and depraved of the coffee, which had become accustomed. However, was
not closed as intelligence and exuberant nature was full of activity and strength used them once
in a while in the study of some branches of science. The decor represented caverns of hell, but it was not impossible
that someone believed that it was the hold of a ship. The event began a prelude to the orchestra,
led by Mr dignity Anselmo, a carpenter from the village. I'll see - said the young, leaving the iron on the table and passing ahead
of him.

When they had gone a bit, he turned to ask:

- Does your guy is good?

-
Yes, ma'am, yes ... I mean, no ... For some days not getting out of
bed ... Has a bad cold.

- Do not be a thing of care?

- I think not,
ma'am.

The young man went on his way smiling.

It amused him to call her Mrs. Gonzalo having no met sixteen years
and counting more than twenty.



