The homestead law increased the tide of settlers. The improved farm machinery made it possible
for him to go boldly out on to the prairie and to deal effectively with virgin soil in farms
whose cultivated area made the old clearings of the backwoodsman seem mere garden plots. Two
things resulted from these conditions, which profoundly modified pioneer ideals. In the first
place the new form of colonization demanded an increasing use of capital; and the rapidity
of the formation of towns, the speed with which society developed, made men the more eager
to secure bank credit to deal with the new West. This made the pioneer more dependent on the
eastern economic forces. In the second place the farmer became dependent as never before on
transportation companies. In this speculative movement the railroads, finding that they had
pressed too far in advance and had issued stock to freely for their earnings to justify the
face of the investment, came into collision with the pioneer on the question of rates and of
discriminations. The Greenback movement and the Granger movements were appeals to government
to prevent what the pioneer thought to be invasions of pioneer democracy.

As the western settler began to face the problem of magnitude in the areas he was occupying;
as he began to adjust his life to the modern forces of capital and to complex productive processes;
as he began to see that, go where he would, the question of credit and currency, of transportation
and distribution in general conditioned his success, he sought relief by legislation. He began
to lose his primitive attitude of individualism, government began to look less like a necessary
evil and more like an instrument for the perpetuation of his democratic ideals. In brief, the
defenses of the pioneer democrat began to shift, from free land to legislation, from the ideal
of individualism to the ideal of social control through regulation by law. He had no sympathy
with a radical reconstruction of society by the revolution of socialism; even his alliances
with the movement of organized labor, which paralleled that of organized capital in the East,
were only half-hearted. But he was becoming alarmed over the future of the free democratic
ideal. The wisdom of his legislation it is not necessary to discuss here. The essential point
is that his conception of the right of government to control social process had undergone a
change. He was coming to regard legislation as an instrument of social construction. The individualism
of the Kentucky pioneer of 1796 was giving way to the Populism of the Kansas pioneer of 1896.

The later days of pioneer democracy are too familiar to require much exposition. But they are
profoundly significant. As the pioneer doctrine of free competition for the resources of the
nation revealed its tendencies; as individual, corporation and trust, like the pioneer, turned
increasingly to legal devices to promote their contrasting ideals, the natural resources were
falling into private possession. Tides of alien immigrants were surging into the country to
replace the old American stock in the labor market, to lower the standard of living and to
increase the pressure of population upon the land. These recent foreigners have lodged almost
exclusively in the dozen great centers of industrial life, and there they have accented the
antagonisms between capital and labor by the fact that the labor supply has become increasingly
foreign born, and recruited from nationalities who arouse no sympathy on the part of capital
and little on the part of the general public. Class distinctions are accented by national prejudices,
and democracy is thereby invaded. But even in the dull brains of great masses of these unfortunates
from southern and eastern Europe the idea of America as the land of freedom and of opportunity
to rise, the land of pioneer democratic ideals, has found lodgment, and if it is given time
and is not turned into revolutionary lines it will fructify.

As the American pioneer passed on in advance of this new tide of European immigration, he found
lands increasingly limited. In place of the old lavish opportunity for the settler to set his
stakes where he would, there were frantic rushes of thousands of eager pioneers across the
line of newly opened Indian reservations. Even in 1889, when Oklahoma was opened to settlement,
twenty thousand settlers crowded at the boundaries, like straining athletes, waiting the bugle
note that should start the race across the line. To-day great crowds gather at the land lotteries
of the government as the remaining fragments of the public domain are flung to hungry settlers.

Hundreds of thousands of pioneers from the Middle West have crossed the national boundary into
Canadian wheat fields eager to find farms for their children, although under an alien flag.
And finally the government has taken to itself great areas of arid land for reclamation by
costly irrigation projects whereby to furnish twenty-acre tracts in the desert to settlers
under careful regulation of water rights. The government supplies the capital for huge irrigation
dams and reservoirs and builds them itself. It owns and operates quarries, coal mines and timber
to facilitate this work. It seeks the remotest regions of the earth for crops suitable for
these areas. It analyzes the soils and tells the farmer what and when and how to plant. It
has even considered the rental to manufacturers of the surplus water, electrical and steam
power generated in its irrigation works and the utilization of this power to extract nitrates
from the air to replenish worn-out soils. The pioneer of the arid regions must be both a capitalist
and the protégé of the government.

Consider the contrast between the conditions of the pioneers at the beginning and at the end
of this period of development. Three hundred years ago adventurous Englishmen on the coast
of Virginia began the attack on the wilderness. Three years ago the President of the United
States summoned the governors of forty-six states to deliberate upon the danger of the exhaustion
of the natural resources of the nation.[279:1]

The pressure of population upon the food supply is already felt and we are at the beginning
only of this transformation. It is profoundly significant that at the very time when American
democracy is becoming conscious that its pioneer basis of free land and sparse population is
giving way, it is also brought face to face with the startling outcome of its old ideals of
individualism and exploitation under competition uncontrolled by government. Pioneer society
itself was not sufficiently sophisticated to work out to its logical result the conception
of the self-made man. But the captains of industry by applying squatter doctrines to the evolution
of American industrial society, have made the process so clear that he who runs may read. Contests
imply alliances as well as rivalries. The increasing magnitude of the areas to be dealt with
and the occurrences of times of industrial stress furnished occasion for such unions. The panic
of 1873 was followed by an unprecedented combination of individual businesses and partnerships
into corporations. 

"The Baron is left today, and you will write him a letter which I
will dictate to you."

Edgar was stirring again, but his mother was firm.

"Do not argue. There is paper and ink, you sit down.

"Edgar looked up. Her eyes were hardened by an unrelenting resolve.

He had never known his mother so hard and left. Fear came over him. He sat down, took the pen, but
the face crouched low on the table.

'Above the date. Did you? leave one line blank before the heading. So! Dear Mr. Baron! Call
sign. re-release a line. I have just learned to my regret - do you have? - To my regret that
you left the Semmering already - Semmering two meters - and I must take a letter, which I personally
had intended, namely - not a little faster, it must be calligraphy! - Apologize for my behavior yesterday.
As you will have told my Mom, I'm still convalescing from a serious
illness and very irritable.

I see it often things that are exaggerated and that I jumped to the next moment regret ... "The
curved back of the table. Edgar turned: his defiance was awake again.
"I do not write, this is not true!"

Edgar! "They threatened to vote.

"It is not true. I have done nothing that I regret.

I have done nothing wrong, and I would have to excuse me.

I am your only came to help, as you called, "Her lips were bloodless,
his nostrils were stretched.

"I called for help?

You're mad, "Edgar was angry, with a jerk, he jumped up. "Yes, you
called for help, out there in the hallway, last night, as he has
touched you.

'Let me, let me' have you called.

So, loud that I "have heard up into my room."

"You lie, I was never here with the Baron in progress.

He has been with me only to the stairs ... "In Edgar's heart stopped
in this bold lie.

The voice staggered him, he stared at her with glazed eyes stars.

"You ... were not ... in progress? And he ... he has not kept up? Not taken around by force? "She
laughed. A cold, dry laugh. "You're dreaming." This was too much
for the child.

He now knew already that adults lied that she had small, bold excuses,
lies, slipped through the tight mesh, and artful ambiguity.

But this cheeky, cold denial,
face to face, made him furious. "And as these bruises I've also been
dreaming?"

Who knows who you're around hit you. But I like to spend
with you to refrain from discussion, you have to parry, and that's
that.

Sit down and write! "She
was very pale and looked with their last strength to maintain tension.

 As land values
rise, as meat and bread grow dearer, as the process of industrial consolidation goes on, and
as Eastern industrial conditions spread across the West, the problems of traditional American
democracy will become increasingly grave.

The time has come when University men may well consider pioneer ideals, for American society
has reached the end of the first great period in its formation. It must survey itself, reflect
upon its origins, consider what freightage of purposes it carried in its long march across
the continent, what ambitions it had for the man, what rôle it would play in the world. How
shall we conserve what was best in pioneer ideals? How adjust the old conceptions to the changed
conditions of modern life?

Other nations have been rich and prosperous and powerful. But the United States has believed
that it had an original contribution to make to the history of society by the production of
a self-determining, self-restrained, intelligent democracy. It is in the Middle West that society
has formed on lines least like those of Europe. It is here, if anywhere, that American democracy
will make its stand against the tendency to adjust to a European type.

This consideration gives importance to my final topic, the relation of the University to pioneer
ideals and to the changing conditions of American democracy. President Pritchett of the Carnegie
Foundation has recently declared that in no other form of popular activity does a nation or
State so clearly reveal its ideals or the quality of its civilization as in its system of education;
and he finds, especially in the State University, "a conception of education from the standpoint
of the whole people." "If our American democracy were to-day called to give proof of its constructive
ability," he says, "the State University and the public school system which it crowns would
be the strongest evidence of its fitness which it could offer."

It may at least be conceded that an essential characteristic of the State University is its
democracy in the largest sense. The provision in the Constitution of Indiana of 1816, so familiar
to you all, for a "general system of education ascending in regular gradations from township
schools to a State University, wherein tuition shall be gratis and equally open to all," expresses
the Middle Western conception born in the days of pioneer society and doubtless deeply influenced
by Jeffersonian democracy.

The most obvious fact about these universities, perhaps, lies in their integral relation with
the public schools, whereby the pupil has pressed upon him the question whether he shall go
to college, and whereby the road is made open and direct to the highest training. By this means
the State offers to every class the means of education, and even engages in propaganda to induce
students to continue. It sinks deep shafts through the social strata to find the gold of real
ability in the underlying rock of the masses. It fosters that due degree of individualism which
is implied in the right of every human being to have opportunity to rise in whatever directions
his peculiar abilities entitle him to go, subordinate to the welfare of the state. It keeps
the avenues of promotion to the highest offices, the highest honors, open to the humblest and
most obscure lad who has the natural gifts, at the same time that it aids in the improvement
of the masses.

Nothing in our educational history is more striking than the steady pressure of democracy upon
its universities to adapt them to the requirements of all the people. From the State Universities
of the Middle West, shaped under pioneer ideals, have come the fuller recognition of scientific
studies, and especially those of applied science devoted to the conquest of nature; the breaking
down of the traditional required curriculum; the union of vocational and college work in the
same institution; the development of agricultural and engineering colleges and business courses;
the training of lawyers, administrators, public men, and journalists--all under the ideal of
service to democracy rather than of individual advancement alone. Other universities do the
same thing; but the head springs and the main current of this great stream of tendency come
from the land of the pioneers, the democratic states of the Middle West. And the people themselves,
through their boards of trustees and the legislature, are in the last resort the court of appeal
as to the directions and conditions of growth, as well as have the fountain of income from
which these universities derive their existence.

The State University has thus both a peculiar power in the directness of its influence upon
the whole people and a peculiar limitation in its dependence upon the people. The ideals of
the people constitute the atmosphere in which it moves, though it can itself affect this atmosphere.
Herein is the source of its strength and the direction of its difficulties. For to fulfil its
mission of uplifting the state to continuously higher levels the University must, in the words
of Mr. Bryce, "serve the time without yielding to it;" it must recognize new needs without
becoming subordinate to the immediately practical, to the short-sightedly expedient. It must
not sacrifice the higher efficiency for the more obvious but lower efficiency. It must have
the wisdom to make expenditures for results which pay manifold in the enrichment of civilization,
but which are not immediate and palpable.

In the transitional condition of American democracy which I have tried to indicate, the mission
of the university is most important. The times call for educated leaders. General experience
and rule-of-thumb information are inadequate for the solution of the problems of a democracy
which no longer owns the safety fund of an unlimited quantity of untouched resources. Scientific
farming must increase the yield of the field, scientific forestry must economize the woodlands,
scientific experiment and construction by chemist, physicist, biologist and engineer must be
applied to all of nature's forces in our complex modern society. The test tube and the microscope
are needed rather than ax and rifle in this new ideal of conquest. The very discoveries of
science in such fields as public health and manufacturing processes have made it necessary
to depend upon the expert, and if the ranks of experts are to be recruited broadly from the
democratic masses as well as from those of larger means, the State Universities must furnish
at least as liberal opportunities for research and training as the universities based on private
endowments furnish. It needs no argument to show that it is not to the advantage of democracy
to give over the training of the expert exclusively to privately endowed institutions.

But quite as much in the field of legislation and of public life in general as in the industrial
world is the expert needed. The industrial conditions which shape society are too complex,
problems of labor, finance, social reform too difficult to be dealt with intelligently and
wisely without the leadership of highly educated men familiar with the legislation and literature
on social questions in other States and nations.

By training in science, in law, politics, economics and history the universities may supply
from the ranks of democracy administrators, legislators, judges and experts for commissions
who shall disinterestedly and intelligently mediate between contending interests. When the
words "capitalistic classes" and "the proletariate" can be used and understood in America it
is surely time to develop such men, with the ideal of service to the State, who may help to
break the force of these collisions, to find common grounds between the contestants and to
possess the respect and confidence of all parties which are genuinely loyal to the best American
ideals.

The signs of such a development are already plain in the expert commissions of some States;
in the increasing proportion of university men in legislatures; in the university men's influence
in federal departments and commissions. It is hardly too much to say that the best hope of
intelligent and principled progress in economic and social legislation and administration lies
in the increasing influence of American universities. By sending out these open-minded experts,
by furnishing well-fitted legislators, public leaders and teachers, by graduating successive
armies of enlightened citizens accustomed to deal dispassionately with the problems of modern
life, able to think for themselves, governed not by ignorance, by prejudice or by impulse,
but by knowledge and reason and high-mindedness, the State Universities will safeguard democracy.
Without such leaders and followers democratic reactions may create revolutions, but they will
not be able to produce industrial and social progress. America's problem is not violently to
introduce democratic ideals, but to preserve and entrench them by courageous adaptation to
new conditions. Educated leadership sets bulwarks against both the passionate impulses of the
mob and the sinister designs of those who would subordinate public welfare to private greed.
Lord Bacon's splendid utterance still rings true: "The learning of the few is despotism; the
learning of the many is liberty. And intelligent and principled liberty is fame, wisdom and power."

There is a danger to the universities in this very opportunity. At first pioneer democracy
had scant respect for the expert. He believed that "a fool can put on his coat better than
a wise man can do it for him." There is much truth in the belief; and the educated leader,
even he who has been trained under present university conditions, in direct contact with the
world about him, will still have to contend with this inherited suspicion of the expert. But
if he be well trained and worthy of his training, if he be endowed with creative imagination
and personality, he will make good his leadership.

A more serious danger will come when the universities are fully recognized as powerful factors
in shaping the life of the State--not mere cloisters, remote from its life, but an influential
element in its life. Then it may easily happen that the smoke of the battle-field of political
and social controversy will obscure their pure air, that efforts will be made to stamp out
the exceptional doctrine and the exceptional man. Those who investigate and teach within the
university walls must respond to the injunction of the church, "Sursum corda"--lift up the
heart to high thinking and impartial search for the unsullied truth in the interests of all
the people; this is the holy grail of the universities.

That they may perform their work they must be left free, as the pioneer was free, to explore
new regions and to report what they find; for like the pioneers they have the ideal of investigation,
they seek new horizons. They are not tied to past knowledge; they recognize the fact that the
universe still abounds in mystery, that science and society have not crystallized, but are
still growing and need their pioneer trail-makers. New and beneficent discoveries in nature,
new and beneficial discoveries in the processes and directions of the growth of society, substitutes
for the vanishing material basis of pioneer democracy may be expected if the university pioneers
are left free to seek the trail.

In conclusion, the university has a duty in adjusting pioneer ideals to the new requirements
of American democracy, even more important than those which I have named. He sat there for fifteen minutes, basking in the
feeling of anticipation for something that never came. Not a single word escaped him as his mother
stood up, still having not noticed his presence. He didn't know what to do. Should he stay here
alone sitting at the table or follow her? Finally he stood and went meekly behind her, who was
going out of her way to ignore him, and as always, felt how rediculous this always was.
 Vast fields of radiant
snow and sparkling ice lie before him; profound abysses open at his feet; and as he lifts his
eyes the unimaginable peak of the Matterhorn cleaves the thin air, far, far above. A new and
unsuspected world is revealed all about him. Thus it is the function of the university to reveal
to the individual the mystery and the glory of life as a whole--to open all the realms of rational
human enjoyment and achievement; to preserve the consciousness of the past; to spread before
the eye the beauty of the universe; and to throw wide its portals of duty and of power to the
human soul. It must honor the poet and painter, the writer and the teacher, the scientist and
the inventor, the musician and the prophet of righteousness--the men of genius in all fields
who make life nobler. It must call forth anew, and for finer uses, the pioneer's love of creative
individualism and provide for it a spiritual atmosphere friendly to the development of personality
in all uplifting ways. It must check the tendency to act in mediocre social masses with undue
emphasis upon the ideals of prosperity and politics. In short, it must summon ability of all
kinds to joyous and earnest effort for the welfare and the spiritual enrichment of society.
It must awaken new tastes and ambitions among the people.

The light of these university watch towers should flash from State to State until American
democracy itself is illuminated with higher and broader ideals of what constitutes service
to the State and to mankind; of what are prizes; of what is worthy of praise and reward. So
long as success in amassing great wealth for the aggrandizement of the individual is the exclusive
or the dominant standard of success, so long as material prosperity, regardless of the conditions
of its cost, or the civilization which results, is the shibboleth, American democracy, that
faith in the common man which the pioneer cherishes, is in danger. For the strongest will make
their way unerringly to whatever goal society sets up as the mark of conceded preëminence.
What more effective agency is there for the cultivation of the seed wheat of ideals than the
university? Where can we find a more promising body of sowers of the grain?

The pioneer's clearing must be broadened into a domain where all that is worthy of human endeavor
may find fertile soil on which to grow; and America must exact of the constructive business
geniuses who owe their rise to the freedom of pioneer democracy supreme allegiance and devotion
to the commonweal. In fostering such an outcome and in tempering the asperities of the conflicts
that must precede its fulfilment, the nation has no more promising agency than the State Universities,
no more hopeful product than their graduates.

FOOTNOTES:

[269:1] Commencement Address at the University of Indiana, 1910.

[270:1] [Printed from an earlier version; since published in his "Songs from Books," p. 93,
under the title, "The Voortrekker." At last the time had come, the
long anticipated event. The fuel of passion, betrayal and love all combined into a volatile mix ready
to explode. He furiously pounded his fists and bit into his lip with
extreme frustration and agitation.

XI

THE WEST AND AMERICAN IDEALS[290:1]

True to American traditions that each succeeding generation ought to find in the Republic a
better home, once in every year the colleges and universities summon the nation to lift its
eyes from the routine of work, in order to take stock of the country's purposes and achievements,
to examine its past and consider its future.

This attitude of self-examination is hardly characteristic of the people as a whole. Particularly
it is not characteristic of the historic American. He has been an opportunist rather than a
dealer in general ideas. Destiny set him in a current which bore him swiftly along through
such a wealth of opportunity that reflection and well-considered planning seemed wasted time.
He knew not where he was going, but he was on his way, cheerful, optimistic, busy and buoyant.

To-day we are reaching a changed condition, less apparent perhaps, in the newer regions than
in the old, but sufficiently obvious to extend the commencement frame of mind from the college
to the country as a whole. The swift and inevitable current of the upper reaches of the nation's
history has borne it to the broader expanse and slower stretches which mark the nearness of
the level sea. The vessel, no longer carried along by the rushing waters, finds it necessary
to determine its own directions on this new ocean of its future, to give conscious consideration
to its motive power and to its steering gear.

It matters not so much that those who address these college men and women upon life, give conflicting
answers to the questions of whence and whither: the pause for remembrance, for reflection and
for aspiration is wholesome in itself.

Although the American people are becoming more self-conscious, more responsive to the appeal
to act by deliberate choices, we should be over-sanguine if we believed that even in this new
day these commencement surveys were taken to heart by the general public, or that they were
directly and immediately influential upon national thought and action.

But even while we check our enthusiasm by this realization of the common thought, we must take
heart. The University's peculiar privilege and distinction lie in the fact that it is not the
passive instrument of the State to voice its current ideas. Its problem is not that of expressing
tendencies. Its mission is to create tendencies and to direct them. Its problem is that of
leadership and of ideals. It is called, of course, to justify the support which the public
gives it, by working in close and sympathetic touch with those it serves. More than that, it
would lose important element of strength if it failed to recognize the fact that improvement
and creative movement often come from the masses themselves, instinctively moving toward a
better order. The University's graduates must be fitted to take their places naturally and
effectually in the common life of the time.

But the University is called especially to justify its existence by giving to its sons and
daughters something which they could not well have gotten through the ordinary experiences
of the life outside its walls. Not for the last time, he decided he wanted
to leave it alone. The corridor was now empty, illuminated by a single candle. Minutes passed
slowly, torturing him - finally, he heard steps cautiously approaching.

He listened intently. The footsteps were not rapid, but abrasive, hesitant, pensive, as if walking
up a steep, difficult road. Then, a whisper followed by a pause. Edgar trembled with excitement. Here
at the end, was she still his? The whisper dissipated, but the steps still hesitantly approached.
 So, at least it is, in the world of thought, where energized ideals put in the air and
carried here and there by the waves and currents of the intellectual atmosphere, fertilize
vast inert areas.

The University, therefore, has a double duty. On the one hand it must aid in the improvement
of the general economic and social environment. It must help on in the work of scientific discovery
and of making such conditions of existence, economic, political and social, as will produce
more fertile and responsive soil for a higher and better life. It must stimulate a wider demand
on the part of the public for right leadership. It must extend its operations more widely among
the people and sink deeper shafts through social strata to find new supplies of intellectual
gold in popular levels yet untouched. And on the other hand, it must find and fit men and women
for leadership. It must both awaken new demands and it must satisfy those demands by trained
leaders with new motives, with new incentives to ambition, with higher and broader conception
of what constitute the prize in life, of what constitutes success. The University has to deal
with both the soil and sifted seed in the agriculture of the human spirit.

Its efficiency is not the efficiency which the business engineer is fitted to appraise. If
it is a training ship, it is a training ship bound on a voyage of discovery, seeking new horizons. Why are they not speaking? If he has it a
gag stuffed into his mouth, he pressed her to his throat?

The thoughts make him wild. With a trembling hand he pushes open the
door of a span. Now he sees in the dark, the two gait. If the ships
of Columbus had engaged in a profitable coastwise traffic between Palos and Cadiz they might
have saved sail cloth, but their keels would never have grated on the shores of a New World.

The appeal of the undiscovered is strong in America. For three centuries the fundamental process
in its history was the westward movement, the discovery and occupation of the vast free spaces
of the continent. We are the first generation of Americans who can look back upon that era
as a historic movement now coming to its end. Other generations have been so much a part of
it that they could hardly comprehend its significance. To them it seemed inevitable. The free
land and the natural resources seemed practically inexhaustible. Nor were they aware of the
fact that their most fundamental traits, their institutions, even their ideals were shaped
by this interaction between the wilderness and themselves.

American democracy was born of no theorist's dream; it was not carried in the Susan Constant
to Virginia, nor in the Mayflower to Plymouth. It came out of the American forest, and it gained
new strength each time it touched a new frontier. Not the constitution, but free land and an
abundance of natural resources open to a fit people, made the democratic type of society in
America for three centuries while it occupied its empire.

To-day we are looking with a shock upon a changed world. The national problem is no longer
how to cut and burn away the vast screen of the dense and daunting forest; it is how to save
and wisely use the remaining timber. It is no longer how to get the great spaces of fertile
prairie land in humid zones out of the hands of the government into the hands of the pioneer;
these lands have already passed into private possession. Break of day, he comprised certain he desired to compose to the beget
or cable. Just them wasn't as yet acted at once, this night? Nor comprised hellos Beget inward her board,
she comprised allay on the mean, afraid citizenry. It is a problem of how to bring the precious rills
of water on to the alkali and sage brush. Population is increasing faster than the food supply.

New farm lands no longer increase decade after decade in areas equal to those of European states.
While the ratio of increase of improved land declines, the value of farm lands rise and the
price of food leaps upward, reversing the old ratio between the two. The cry of scientific
farming and the conservation of natural resources replaces the cry of rapid conquest of the
wilderness. We have so far won our national home, wrested from it its first rich treasures,
and drawn to it the unfortunate of other lands, that we are already obliged to compare ourselves
with settled states of the Old World. In place of our attitude of contemptuous indifference
to the legislation of such countries as Germany and England, even Western States like Wisconsin
send commissions to study their systems of taxation, workingmen's insurance, old age pensions
and a great variety of other remedies for social ills.

