REAL FOLKS

by

MRS. A. D. T. WHITNEY

1893

CONTENTS

      I. THIS WAY, AND THAT
     II. LUCLARION
    III. BY STORY-RAIL: TWENTY-SIX YEARS AN HOUR
     IV. AFTERWARDS IS A LONG TIME
      V. HOW THE NEWS CAME TO HOMESWORTH
     VI. AND
    VII. WAKING UP
   VIII. EAVESDROPPING IN ASPEN STREET
     IX. HAZEL'S INSPIRATION
      X. COCKLES AND CRAMBO
     XI. MORE WITCH-WORK
    XII. CRUMBS
   XIII. PIECES OF WORLDS
    XIV. "SESAME; AND LILIES"
     XV. WITH ALL ONE'S MIGHT
    XVI. SWARMING
   XVII. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
  XVIII. ALL AT ONCE
    XIX. INSIDE
     XX. NEIGHBORS AND NEXT OF KIN
    XXI. THE HORSESHOE
   XXII. MORNING GLORIES

I.

THIS WAY, AND THAT. Already in the great October strike of 1905, the Russian
railway workers stood in the still formally absolutist Russia in terms of its economic and social freedom
tower high above the German. The Russian railway workers and postal employees have the right of association in
fact captured by storm, and although it is currently on trial process and disciplinary action
to reprimand rains, the internal cohesion of them can do nothing more to take. But it would be
a completely false psychological account would assume with the German reaction, that the blind
obedience of the German railway workers and postal employees will last forever, that he is a rock,
can wear down the no. Even though the German trade union leaders have used to the existing conditions
so that they unclouded can look through this all over Europe, almost unprecedented shame with some
satisfaction the achievements of the union's struggle in Germany, it is the deeply hidden, long pent-up resentment
of the uniformed state slaves in a general survey of industrial workers looking to gain inevitable
air. And if access to industrial vanguard of the proletariat in the mass strike for more political rights
and the old will want to defend, the great army of railway workers and postal employees reflect
the natural necessity in its own special disgrace and bring at last to the liberation of the extra
portion of Russian absolutism, for it is built in Germany in particular.
 And Ellen went to the sea-shore,
in that book; and picked up pebbles; and the sea came up to her feet, just as the air comes
up here, and you can't get any farther,"--said Frank, walking to the very edge and putting
one foot out over, while the wind blew in her face up the long opening between rows of brick
houses of which theirs was in the midst upon one side.

"A great sea!" exclaimed Laura, contemptuously. "With all those other wood-sheds right out
in it, all the way down!"

"Well, there's another side to the sea; and capes, and islands," answered Frank, turning back.
"Besides, I don't pretend it is; I only think it seems a little bit like it. I'm often put
in mind of things. I don't know why."

"I'll tell you what it is like," said Laura. "It's like the gallery at church, where the singers
stand up in a row, and look down, and all the people look up at them. I like high places. I
like Cecilia, in the 'Bracelets,' sitting at the top, behind, when her name was called out
for the prize; and 'they all made way, and she was on the floor in an instant.' I should like
to have been Cecilia!"

"Leonora was a great deal the best." Furthermore, this initiative are the
and put the conscious direction very definite limits. Just as the revolution is it for any governing
body of the proletarian movement extremely difficult to predict and calculate, which rise and
which can lead to explosions and the moments not. Here too, the initiative and lead not to
the commanding voluntarily, but in the most skilful adaptation to the situation and the closest possible
touch with the mood of the crowd. The element of spontaneity plays, as we have seen, in all
Russian Mass strike without exception a major role, either as driving or inhibiting element.
 "All the must there is in the house.
And then you've got to."

"I wouldn't--if father wasn't sick."

"Laura," said Frank, gravely, "I don't believe father is going to get well. What do you suppose
they're letting us stay at home from school for?"

"O, that," said Laura, "was because Mrs. Lake didn't have time to sew the sleeves into your
brown dress."

"I could have worn my gingham, Laura. What if he should die pretty soon? I heard her tell Luclarion
that there must be a change before long. They talk in little bits, Laura, and they say it solemn."

The children were silent for a few minutes. Frank sat looking through the fir-tree at the far-off
flecks of blue.

Mr. Shiere had been ill a long time. They could hardly think, now, what it would seem again
not to have a sick father; and they had had no mother for several years,--many out of their
short remembrance of life. Mrs. Lake had kept the house, and mended their clothes, and held
up her forefinger at them. Even when Mr. Shiere was well, he had been a reserved man, much
absorbed in business since his wife's death, he had been a very sad man. He loved his children,
but he was very little with them. Frank and Laura could not feel the shock and loss that children
feel when death comes and robs them suddenly of a close companionship.

"What do you suppose would happen then?" asked Laura, after awhile. Mass
strike is the name given to a period of several years, possibly decades, of class warfare.
Of the different mass strikes which have taken place in Russia in the past 4 years, all fit
the pattern of mass striking as political and executed according to a plan. A short Single act is a subortinate
category; it is purely for the demonstration. Throughout the five-year period, we see few demonstrations
or strikes in Russia, with the notable ones being only in individual cities. The annual May Day general strike
was the first significant one in Russia, in Warsaw and Lodz. It was not always done on a significant level,
byt has been celebrated by labor peace organizations. The mass srike in Warsaw on September 11, 1905 was a memorial
service in honor of Martin Kasprzak, who was executed in November 1905 in St. Petersburg for protesting the
declaration of martial law in Poland and Livonia. On January 22, 1906, in Warsaw, Lodz, Czestochowa,
Dobrowa, Braziers, and partly in some Russian cities, it is held as an annual celebration of
the bloodbath at St. Petersburg. Also in July 1906 a general strike was held in Tbilisi to protest
the court-martial of the soldiers who revolted and were tried, finally, for the same reason in September
this year, during the hearings in Reval. Nearly all major and some mass strikes and general strikes were
not demonstrations but closer to riots, and as such they were usually spontaneous, random
in time and place, and unplaned. Sympathy grew greatly for such movements, since people were not
taking the usual orderly way. These soon turned into economic struggles, sometimes street fights. These protests
soon collapsed. Looking at the bigger picture, purely political demonstrations have a very secondary
role - as that of small dots in the middle of vast areas

.
 Hurry in!"

Now Mrs. Oldways was only an uncle's wife; Mrs. Oferr was their father's sister. But Mrs. Oferr
was a rich woman who lived in New York, and who came on grand and potent, with a scarf or a
pair of shoe-bows for each of the children in her big trunk, and a hundred and one suggestions
for their ordering and behavior at her tongue's end, once a year. Mrs. Oldways lived up in
the country, and was "aunt" to half the neighborhood at home, and turned into an aunt instantly,
wherever she went and found children. If there were no children, perhaps older folks did not
call her by the name, but they felt the special human kinship that is of no-blood or law, but
is next to motherhood in the spirit.

Mrs. Oferr found the open pantry window, before the children had got in.

"Out there!" she exclaimed, "in the eyes of all the neighbors in the circumstances of the family!
Who does, or don't look after you?"

"Hearts'-sake!" came up the pleasant tones of Mrs. Oldways from behind, "how can they help
it? There isn't any other out-doors. If they were down at Homesworth now, there'd be the lilac
garden and the old chestnuts, and the seat under the wall. Poor little souls!" she added, pitifully,
as she lifted them in, and kissed them. "It's well they can take any comfort. Let 'em have
all there is."

Mrs. Oferr drew the blinds, and closed the window.

Frank and Laura remembered the strangeness of that day all their lives. How they sat, shy and
silent, while Luclarion brought in cake and wine; how Mrs. Oferr sat in the large morocco easy-chair
and took some; and Mrs. Oldways lifted Laura, great girl as she was, into her lap first, and
broke a slice for her; how Mrs. Oldways went up-stairs to Mrs. Lake, and then down into the
kitchen to do something that was needed; and Mrs. Oferr, after she had visited her brother,
lay down in the spare chamber for a nap, tired with her long journey from New York, though
it had been by boat and cars, while there was a long staging from Homesworth down to Nashua,
on Mrs. Oldways' route. Mrs. Oldways, however, was "used," she said, "to stepping round." It
was the sitting that had tired her.

How they were told not to go out any more, or to run up and down-stairs; and how they sat in
the front windows, looking out through the green slats at so much of the street world as they
could see in strips; how they obtained surreptitious bits of bread from dinner, and opened
a bit of the sash, and shoved out crumbs under the blinds for the pigeons that flew down upon
the sidewalk; how they wondered what kind of a day it was in other houses, where there were
not circumstances in the family, where children played, and fathers were not ill, but came
and went to and from their stores; and where two aunts had not come, both at once, from great
ways off, to wait for something strange and awful that was likely to befall. In other cities, the wage movement took
hold within the said two weeks one after the other trades, such as in Kiev, St. Petersburg,
Warsaw, Moscow, in the whole district Ivanowo-Voznesensk. The purpose of the strike anywhere: reduction
of working hours, Sunday rest, wage demands. Most strikes ran victorious. It is highlighted in the
local reports that they took some working class who participated
for the first time at a wage movement.] So the January general strike
outgoing great economic struggle that does not stop from then until
the present day, a broad background of revolution formed from the
rise in perpetual interaction with the political agitation and the
external events of the revolution again and again here soon and as
some explosions, sometimes general, large main actions of the proletariat.

Sun burning
in the background on this sequence: 1 May 1905 May Day an unprecedented
absolute general strike in Warsaw with a completely peaceful mass
demonstration, which ends in a bloody Renkontre the defenseless crowd
with the soldiers. In June, in Lodz, a mass outing, and dispersed by
soldiers to a demonstration of 100 000 workers at the funeral of some
victims of the soldiers to Renkontre again with the military and
finally a general strike on 23, 24 and 25 In the first barricades
in the Tsarist empire passes.

In June, "also exploded in the Odessa port from a small incident on board the battleship Potemkin,
the sailors first major revolt of the Black Sea Fleet, which immediately causes a reaction
in Odessa and Nikolayev, a huge mass strike. As a further follow Echo: the mass strike and revolt
in Kronstadt sailors, Libau, Vladivostok. In the month of October, the grand experiment Petersburg coincides
with the introduction of the eight-hour day. The Council of workers' delegates decided in St. Petersburg
in a revolutionary way to enforce the eight-hour day. This means that on a certain day to explain
all the workers of St. Petersburg their employers that they are not willing to work longer than eight hours
a day and that hour to leave the work premises. The idea gives rise to a lively agitation will be
enthusiastically received by the proletariat and carried out, with
the most victims are not spared.

For example, the eight-hour day meant for textile workers who were working eleven hours by
then and that chord in wages, an enormous loss of pay, but they accepted willingly. Within a week there in
all factories and workshops Petersburg the eight-hour day, and the cheers of the workers knows no
bounds. Soon, however, the initially stunned entrepreneurship upgraded
to the defense: it is everywhere threatened by the closure of the
factories.

Some of the workers gets involved in negotiations and achieves here the ten-, nine-hour day where the. The
elite of the Petersburg proletariat, however, the workers of large state-owned metal works remain unshaken
and there is a lockout, which sets 45-50000 man for a month on the pavement. By this conclusion,
the eight-hour movement plays in the general mass of the strike into December, the lockout has prevented
the large heavily. Meanwhile, however, follows in October in response to the Duma Bulygin project, the second
most powerful general strike in the entire mass Empire, to spend the railwaymen the watchword.
This second great action of the proletariat already carries a much different character than the first
one in January. The element of political consciousness has been playing a much larger role.
Of course also here the first occasion was the outbreak of the mass strike a child, and seemingly
random: the conflict of railway workers with the management over the pension fund. But the fact
was general survey of the industrial proletariat is supported by
clear political thought.

The prologue of the January strike was a procession to the Tsar for political freedom, the slogan of the
October strike ran away with the constitutional comedy Tsarism! And thanks to the immediate success
of the general strike: the czar's manifesto of 30 October is flowing, the movement is not
back inside, as in January, only to catch the beginnings of economic class struggle, but pours
on the outside in the eager activity of the newly acquired political
freedom.

 She was only a
child. Men and women never are, of course.

"I'm afraid it will be pretty hard to remember," repeated Laura, with condescension.

"That's your stump!"

Luclarion fixed the steadfast arrow of her look straight upon her, and drew the bow with this
twang.

II.

LUCLARION.

How Mrs. Grapp ever came to, was the wonder. Her having the baby was nothing. Her having the
name for it was the astonishment.

Her own name was Lucy; her husband's Luther: that, perhaps, accounted for the first syllable;
afterwards, whether her mind lapsed off into combinations of such outshining appellatives as
"Clara" and "Marion," or whether Mr. Grapp having played the clarionet, and wooed her sweetly
with it in her youth, had anything to do with it, cannot be told; but in those prescriptive
days of quiet which followed the domestic advent, the name did somehow grow together in the
fancy of Mrs. Luther; and in due time the life-atom which had been born indistinguishable into
the natural world, was baptized into the Christian Church as "Luclarion" Grapp. Thenceforth,
and no wonder, it took to itself a very especial individuality, and became what this story
will partly tell.

Marcus Grapp, who had the start of Luclarion in this "meander,"--as their father called the
vale of tears,--by just two years' time, and was y-clipped, by everybody but his mother "Mark,"--in
his turn, as they grew old together, cut his sister down to "Luke." Then Luther Grapp called
them both "The Apostles." And not far wrong; since if ever the kingdom of heaven does send
forth its Apostles--nay, its little Christs--into the work on earth, in these days, it is as
little children into loving homes.

The Apostles got up early one autumn morning, when Mark was about six years old, and Luke four.
They crept out of their small trundle-bed in their mother's room adjoining the great kitchen,
and made their way out softly to the warm wide hearth.

There were new shoes, a pair apiece, brought home from the Mills the night before, set under
the little crickets in the corners. These had got into their dreams, somehow, and into the
red rooster's first halloo from the end room roof, and into the streak of pale daylight that
just stirred and lifted the darkness, and showed doors and windows, but not yet the blue meeting-houses
on the yellow wall-paper, by which they always knew when it was really morning; and while Mrs.
Grapp was taking that last beguiling nap in which one is conscious that one means to get up
presently, and rests so sweetly on one's good intentions, letting the hazy mirage of the day's
work that is to be done play along the horizon of dim thoughts with its unrisen activities,--two
little flannel night-gowns were cuddled in small heaps by the chimney-side, little bare feet
were trying themselves into the new shoes, and lifting themselves up, crippled with two inches
of stout string between the heels.

Then the shoes were turned into spans of horses, and chirruped and trotted softly into their
cricket-stables; and then--what else was there to do, until the strings were cut, and the flannel
night-gowns taken off?

It was so still out here, in the big, busy, day-time room; it was like getting back where the
world had not begun; surely one must do something wonderful with the materials all lying round,
and such an opportunity as that.

It was old-time then, when kitchens had fire-places; or rather the house was chiefly fire-place,
in front of and about which was more or less of kitchen-space. In the deep fire-place lay a
huge mound of gray ashes, a Vesuvius, under which red bowels of fire lay hidden. In one corner
of the chimney leaned an iron bar, used sometimes in some forgotten, old fashioned way, across
dogs or pothooks,--who knows now? At any rate, there it always was.

Mark, ambitious, put all his little strength to it this morning and drew it down, carefully,
without much clatter, on the hearth. Then he thought how it would turn red under those ashes,
where the big coals were, and how it would shine and sparkle when he pulled it out again, like
the red-hot, hissing iron Jack-the-Giant-Killer struck into the one-eyed monster's eye. So
he shoved it in; and forgot it there, while he told Luke--very much twisted and dislocated,
and misjoined--the leading incidents of the giant story; and then lapsed off, by some queer
association, into the Scripture narrative of Joseph and his brethren, who "pulled his red coat
off, and put him in a fit, and left him there." Absolutism in Russia must be overthrown by the
proletariat. But the proletariat needs to a high degree of political education, of class consciousness
and organization. All of these conditions, it can not be from brochures and leaflets, but merely
appropriated from the lively political school, from the struggle and the struggle in the progressive
course of the revolution. Furthermore, the absolutism not be overthrown at any moment, for which
only a sufficient "effort" and "stamina" necessary. The downfall of absolutism is merely an outward
expression of internal social and class development of Russian society. Before and thus the absolutism
can be overthrown, the future must be shaped bourgeois Russia produced in its interior, in
its modern class division. This includes the drawing together of the various social classes
and interests, the formation of non-proletarian, revolutionary, even less of liberal, radical, bourgeois, conservative
and reactionary parties, which include the self-reflection, self-awareness and class consciousness
not only of classes, but also the middle classes. But these assets are no different than in combat,
in the process of revolution itself, develop through the school of the lively events in the clash with the
proletariat, and against each other in perpetual mutual friction and grow to maturity. This class
division and class readiness of civil society and their action in the struggle against absolutism
is the unique leadership of the proletariat and its class action on the one hand and prevented
more difficult, on the other hand, is whipped and accelerated. The various undercurrents of
the social process of the revolution cross one another, inhibit each other, and increase the
internal contradictions of the Revolution that accelerate exponentially in the result and therefore
only but their powerful eruptions.

So the calls apparently so simple and bare purely mechanical problem: the overthrow of absolutism
a whole long social process, a complete undermining of the social
soil, the bottom side up, the Supreme swept down the apparent "order" into
a chaos and remodeled from the seeming "anarchist" chaos a new order.
And now in the process of social Umschachtelung of old Russia was
not only the January-lightning of the first general strike, but even
more the coming great spring and summer storm of economic strikes
an irreplaceable role.

 But the burnt foot saved
Luke's neck scores of times, doubtless. Mark remembered it; he never "stumped" her to any certain
hurt, or where he could not lead the way himself.

The mischief they got into and out of is no part of my story; but one day something happened--things
do happen as far back in lives as that--which gave Luclarion her clew to the world.

They had got into the best parlor,--that sacred place of the New England farm-house, that is
only entered by the high-priests themselves on solemn festivals, weddings and burials, Thanksgivings
and quiltings; or devoutly, now and then to set the shrine in order, shut the blinds again,
and so depart, leaving it to gather the gloom and grandeur that things and places and people
do when they are good for nothing else.

The children had been left alone; for their mother had gone to a sewing society, and Grashy,
the girl, was up-stairs in her kitchen-chamber-bedroom, with a nail over the door-latch to
keep them out while she "fixed over" her best gown.

"Le's play Lake Ontario," says Marcus.

Now Lake Ontario, however they had pitched upon it, stood with them for all the waters that
are upon the face of the earth, and all the confusion and peril of them. To play it, they turned
the room into one vast shipwreck, of upset and piled up chairs, stools, boxes, buckets, and
what else they could lay hands on; and among and over them they navigated their difficult and
hilarious way. By no means were they to touch the floor; that was the Lake,--that were to drown.

It was Columbus sometimes; sometimes it was Captain Cook; to-day, it was no less than Jason
sailing after the golden fleece.

Out of odd volumes in the garret, and out of "best books" taken down from the secretary in
the "settin'-room," and put into their hands, with charges, of a Sunday, to keep them still,
they had got these things, jumbled into strange far-off and near fantasies in their childish
minds. "Lake Ontario" included and connected all.

"I'll tell you what it is," said Marcus, tumbling up against the parlor door and an idea at
once. "In here!"

"What?" asked Luke, breathless, without looking up, and paddling with the shovel, from an inverted
rocking-chair.

"The golden thing! Hush!"

At this moment Grashy came into the kitchen, took a little tin kettle from a nail over the
dresser, and her sun-bonnet from another behind the door, and made her way through the apartment
as well as she could for bristling chair-legs, with exemplary placidity. She was used to "Lake
Ontario."

"Don't get into any mischief, you Apostles," was her injunction. "I'm goin' down to Miss Ruddock's
for some 'east."

"Good,"; says Mark, the instant the door was shut "Now this is Colchis, and I'm going in."

He pronounced it much like "cold-cheese," and it never occurred to him that he was naming any
unusual or ancient locality. There was a "Jason" in the Mills Village. He kept a grocer's shop.
Colchis might be close by for all he knew; out beyond the wall, perhaps, among the old barrels.
Children place all they read or hear about, or even all they imagine, within a very limited
horizon. They cannot go beyond their world. The circumstances, conditions bring
the development of capitalism and the bourgeois state, but it means that in the "normal" course
of things, without stormy class struggles, certain strata - and precisely the bulk, the most
important, the tiefststehenden, the capital of the State and the most depressed sections of the
proletariat - just simply can not be organized. But even in England we see that a whole century
tireless union activities without all the "problems" - except in the beginning of the period of
the Chartist movement - without all "revolutionary romanticism" errors and temptations, have
brought no further than then to organize a minority of the more affluent sections of the proletariat.

On
the other hand, however, the unions, like all organizations of struggle
of the proletariat, the not even get in the long run other than just
the fight, not only in the sense Mice of the frog war in the waters
of the bourgeois-parliamentary term, but in terms of violent and revolutionary
periods of mass struggle.

The rigid, mechanical and bureaucratic Believes will fight only as a product of the organization
at a certain level of strength be accepted. The lively dialectical development can reverse the
organization as a Product of the struggle arise. We already have a superb example of this phenomenon
seen in Russia, where as not so well organized proletariat in half Stormy years revolution struggle created
an extensive network of organizational approaches added. Another example of this type shows your
history of the German trade unions. In 1878, the number of union members 50 000 According to
the theory of today Trade union leader was this organization, as I said, "by far" not strong
enough to engage in a fierce political struggle. The German trade unions have, however, so weak
they were then, taken up the fight - namely the fight with the Socialist law - and they proved
to be not only "strong enough" to emerge from the conflict victorious, but they have five times
their strength in this struggle, they embraced after the fall of the Socialist Law in 1891 277
659 members. However, corresponding to the method by which the trade unions triumphed in the
struggle with the socialist law have, not the ideal of a peaceful, bee-like continuous expansion,
they were only in the struggle all to pieces to be obtained with the next wave soar and be reborn.
But this is simply the proletarian Class organizations corresponding specific method of growth:
in the struggle to try to and again reproduced from the struggle to emerge.

After closer examination of the German situation and the position of the various layers of the Workers,
it is clear that the coming period of stormy political mass struggle for German unions not the
feared imminent demise, but the reverse new perspectives of an unprecedented rapid saltatory expansion
of their power sphere with the would bring. But the issue has another side. The plan to mass strikes
as a serious political class to take action only with organized,
is in general a completely hopeless.

s strikes
as a serious political class to take action only with organized,
is in general a completely hopeless.



So they set up two chairs from Lake Ontario in the kitchen doorway, to jump from; but they
could only jump to the middle round of the carpet, and who could expect that the shadow children
should be beguiled by that into a leap over bounds? They only came to the middle round of their
carpet.

"We must go nearer; we must set the chairs in the middle, and jump close. Jest shave, you know,"
said Marcus.

"O, I'm afraid," said Luclarion.

"I'll tell you what! Le's run and jump! Clear from the other side of the kitchen, you know.
Then they'll have to run too, and may-be they can't stop."

So they picked up chairs and made a path, and ran from across the broad kitchen into the parlor
doorway, quite on to the middle round of the carpet, and then with great leaps came down bodily
upon the floor close in front of the large glass that, leaned over them, with two little fallen
figures in it, rolling aside quickly also, over the slanting red carpet.

But, O dear what did it?

Had the time come, anyhow, for the old string to part its last fibre, that held the mirror
tilting from the wall,--or was it the crash of a completed spell?

There came a snap,--a strain,--as some nails or screws that held it otherwise gave way before
the forward pressing weight, and down, flat-face upon the floor, between the children, covering
them with fragments of splintered glass and gilded wood,--eagle, ball-chains, and all,--that
whole magnificence and mystery lay prostrate.

Behind, where it had been, was a blank, brown-stained cobwebbed wall, thrown up harsh and sudden
against them, making the room small, and all the enchanted chamber, with its red slanting carpet,
and its far reflected corners, gone.

The house hushed up again after that terrible noise, and stood just the same as ever. When
a thing like that happens, it tells its own story, just once, and then it is over. People are
different. They keep talking.

There was Grashy to come home. She had not got there in time to hear the house tell it. She
must learn it from the children. Why?

