 Is it better
than the other? And here is a Roman chariot, a Spanish market-wagon, a phaeton covered with
yellow mustard, a hermit in monastic garb; then Robin Hood and his merry men, and Maid Marian
in yellow-green habit, Will Scarlet and Friar Tuck in green doublets, yellow facings, bright
green felt hats, bows and quivers flower-trimmed, even the tiny arrows winged with blossoms.
Now there are equipages three deep to survey instead of one, as they pass and repass in bewildering
splendor. And do look! Here come the comicalities! "The Old Woman who lived in a Shoe"--a big
floral slipper, with a dozen children in pink and gray-green, and the old woman on great poke-bonnet;
a Japanese jinrikisha; an egg of white flowers, and a little boy hid away so as to peep and
put out a downy head as a yellow chicken; a bicycle brigade; equestriennes; an interesting
procession of native Californians, with the accoutrements of the Castilian, on horseback. One
carriage is banked with marigolds, and the black horses are harnessed in yellow of the exact
shade. It is fitly occupied by black-eyed Spanish beauties, with raven hair done up high with
gold combs, and black lace costumes with marigolds for trimming, and takes a well-deserved prize.

Roses, roses, roses, roses! How they fly and fall as the fleeting display is passing! Thirty
thousand on one carriage. Roses cover the street. And yet the gardens don't seem stripped.
Where millions are blooming thousands are not missed. And not roses alone, but every flower
of field and garden and conservatory is honored and displayed. Now the contestants are driving
up to the grand stand to secure silken banners. Every one looks a little bit weary in procession
and audience. Is it over?

Yes, it is over! Waving banners, rainbow colors, showers of blossoms, rosy faces, mimic battle,
fairy scenes, the ideal realized!

This is better than the New Orleans Mardi Gras, so often marred by rain and mud, with mythological
ambiguities that few can understand, and difficult to interpret in passing tableaux; better
than similar display at Nice and Mentone. This I do call "unique" and the only. Let Santa Barbara
have this yearly festa for her own. She has fairly won the preëminence.

We at the comparatively frozen and prosaic north can indulge in gay coaching parades at Franconia,
Newport, or Lenox, where costumes of gorgeous hues assist the natural beauty of the flowers.
But it is only a coaching parade, at the wind-up of a gay season. We cannot catch the evanescent
glamour, the optical enchantment, the fantastic fun, the exquisite art of making long preparation
and hard work, careful schemes for effect, appear like airy nonsense for the amusement of an
idle hour. We show the machinery. A true carnival can only be a success in a perpetual "summer-land,"
"within a lovely landscape on a bright and laughing seacoast." Taine said, "Give me the race,
the surroundings, and the epoch, and I show you the man." Give me fair women, roses, sunshine,
leisure, and high-bred, prancing steeds, and I show you this Santa Barbara Carnival.

But this is only a portion of the entertainment. There is a display of flowers at the Pavilion,
where everything can be found that blooms in California, all most artistically arrayed; and
more fascinating in the evening, when hundreds of tiny electric lights twinkle everywhere from
out the grayish-green moss, and the hall is filled with admiring guests. There is always a
play given one evening by amateur talent, a tournament, and a grand closing ball.

The tournament is exciting, where skilful riders try tilting at rings, trying to take as many
rings as possible on lance while galloping by the wires on which these rings are lightly suspended---a
difficult accomplishment. Their costumes are elaborate and gay, but never outrè or bizarre,
and no two alike. Each has his own color, and, like the knights of old, has a fayre ladye among
the spectators who is especially interested and anxious for his success.

Next comes the Spanish game of "colgar," picking up ten-dollar gold pieces from the saddle,
the horse at full speed. And the gymkhana race ends the games. Those who enter, saddle at the
word "go," open an umbrella, and, taking out a cigar, light and smoke it--then see who first
rides to the goal.

Last came the real vaqueros, and they ride untamed, unbroken horses, after a long and rather
painful struggle to mount. They lasso mustangs and do wonderful things. But it was too much.
I was glad to go and rest.

The Flower Dance at the ball, where human flowers formed intricate figures and dances for our
edification and delight, was so attractive that my words are of no avail. Picture twenty-eight
young ladies, each dressed to represent a flower--hollyhock, pansy, moss, rose, morning-glory,
eucalyptus blossom, pink clover, yellow marguerite, Cherokee rose, pink carnation, forget-me-not,
buttercup, pink-and-white fuchsia, lily of the valley, wine-colored peony, white iris, daffodil,
and so on. They advance with slowly swaying motion, with wreaths uplifted until they reach
the stage, where sit the guests of honor. There they bow low, then lay the garlands at their
feet, and retire, forming ingeniously pretty groups and figures, while bees and butterflies
flit in and out. [understand: of his first master; why should he remain a bondman, since there was
a renunciation by which abstraction upon him as a slave have been renounced?].
It is, so, after this renunciation.

But, bought to be a slave, why should he stay an person? If it is before the renunciation read
of the bound of possession [by the first master, who has buy him from
the hands of the non-Jew], ransomed in order to become right, why
should he not remain a person?

A handsome brunette represented a wine-colored peony in a rich costume of wine-colored velvet
and satin. The petals fell to make the skirt, and rose again from a bell sheathing the neck
of her low corsage, and the cap on her dark hair was a copy of the flower.

There, you see how it is done. But it requires genius to succeed in such an undertaking. Look
at Walter Crane's pictures of human flowers for more suggestions.

Most effective of all was the cachuca, danced by a girl of pure Castilian blood, who was dressed
to symbolize the scarlet passionflower. The room was darkened save where she stood, and her
steps and poses were full of Spanish fire and feeling, combined with poetic grace.

Yes, it is over, but the pictures remain as freshly colored as if I saw it all but yesterday.

During the Carnival sentiment reigns supreme--that is, if you have engaged rooms far in advance,
and the matter of three daily meals is settled--and portly business men become gallant, chivalrous,
and even poetic. In testimony I offer two verses sent to a lady visitor with a bunch of roses:

    "We had not thought it was for aught
      He lingered round us, scanning,
    But to admire our spring attire,
      The south wind softly fanning.

    "But when we knew it was for you
      Our charms he sought to capture,
    All round the bower each budding flower
      Blushed pink with rosy rapture.

          "Lovingly,

            THE ROSES."

George Eliot once said: "You love the roses--so do I! I wish the sky would rain down roses
as they rain from off the shaken bush. Why will it not? Then all the valleys would be pink
and white, and soft to tread on. They would fall as light as feathers, smelling sweet; and
it would be like sleeping and yet waking all at once."

She never knew Santa Barbara.

I said the horses feel proud, and their owners tell me how they turn their heads to see their
adornment. And well they may, for a true Barbareno loves his horse as does the Arab, and delights
in his decoration. Easily first in this matter is Mr. W. D. Thompson, who came to Santa Barbara
from Maine more than forty years ago, a nephew of the captain with whom Dana sailed. Mr. Thompson
is a progressive man, who appreciates the many improvements achieved and contemplated, but
still loves to tell of the good old times when he was roughing it as a pioneer. He has done
a most important and valuable work in having a typical Mexican saddle and bridle of the most
approved and correct pattern made out of the finest leather and several thousand silver dollars.
As his favorite mare stood before me with this magnificent saddle on, and her forelegs tied
with a little strap so that she could step daintily but not run, I never saw such a pretty
sight of the kind. This saddle and bridle, worth over $3000, are now on exhibition in Chicago.
No more significant or beautiful exhibition of the early argonautic period could be sent from
Southern California, and it will surely attract constant and admiring attention. Here is a
description from the San Francisco Argonaut:

"This saddle and bridle, manufactured of bullion from Mexican dollars, are exquisite works
of art. The saddle is of typical Mexican pattern, with a high pommel, well-hollowed seat, and
the most elaborate of trappings. The leather is stamped with elegant designs, and the whole
thing is a complete, costly, and elaborate equipment, of good taste and artistic design. The
saddle is studded over with silver ornaments. The leather facings are set thick with buttons
and rosettes; the pommel is encased in silver; the corners of the aprons are tipped with silver;
the stirrups are faced and edged with silver half an inch thick, elaborately chased and carved.
The saddle-tree is hung with silver rings, fore and aft, to answer all the requirements of
the vaquero in lacing up his riata. The girth, which passes under the horse's belly and cinches
the saddle in place, is woven of hair from horses' manes by a native artisan, and is fully
eight inches broad, with a tassel hanging at its middle. The saddle, the bridle, and all its
appointments are marvels of beauty. The reins, martingale, and whip are composed of solid silver
in woven strands. The headstall is covered with fluted silver, with large engraved silver rosettes
at the sides, with decorations of flowers and heads of wheat, with an elaborate nose-piece
with silver engraving. The side-pieces are of silver, massive and ornate, with a silver chain
under the horse's jaw. The bridle, reins, and accessories weigh about twelve pounds, and are
worth not less than two hundred and fifty dollars in value of silver coin used in its manufacture."

Everybody up and down the coast knows Dixie Thompson. His talk is full of delightful anecdotes
of the early settlers, and he has a droll, dry humor of his own that is refreshing. Mr. Nordhoff,
who is an old friend, once wrote to the Harper "Drawer" about his shrewd way of restraining
the over-keen traders and laboring men who tried to impose upon him. He heads the pleasant
bit of gossip, "Captain Thompson's Club," and says:

"Captain Dixie is, to all appearance, the man of most leisure in all leisurely Santa Barbara.
He and his horses and carriages are always at the service of a friend. But while he seems to
be the idlest of men, he is, in fact, an extremely capable business man who has many irons
in the fire--tills much good land, has horses and cattle and pigs of the best breeds on many
hills and in several rich valleys, and keeps all his affairs running in good order. Still,
he is an easy-going, not a bustling, man of business. And it is just here that his social contrivance
comes in: he has judged it expedient to form a club.

"'You see,' said he, the other day, to an old friend, 'the boys don't always see me around,
and sometimes they try to take a little advantage. I find a fellow who don't haul half a load
for me while I am paying for a full load; another one who gives me short measure; or another
who does not do what I have told him. I hate to scold; and as they all deny when I accuse them,
and I can't be telling men that they are lying to me, I thought I'd just establish a Liars'
Club and bring them all in. It is now in good, healthy operation. We don't call it the Liars'
Club, of course; we speak of the Club. But when I catch a man trying to 'do' me, I just tell
him that I'll have to make him a member of the Club.--Oh, how do you do, Mr. President?' said
Captain Dixie to a well-known character just then passing by.--'He's the president of the Club,
you know,' he added. 'Here's Pancho now; I told him the other day I would have to make him
a member of the Club if he didn't look out. I guess he'll get in yet. It's a very flourishing
club, and more useful, I guess, than some others.'

"Don't laugh, my dear Drawer. I believe Captain Thompson has struck an admirable idea, and
one which might well have wide application. Don't you suppose the material for such a club
exists, for instance--not here in New Haven, of course, but over in New York, say, or perhaps
in Washington? Think it over. The Drawer has always taken the lead in great moral and social
improvements. I leave it to you."

Here, as in all Southern California, you will never know anything of the real town unless you
have a friend who can take you to unfrequented cross-country drives up winding paths to mesas,
or upland pasture guarded by lock and key from the average tourist, and get views indescribably
fine.

I am ashamed of my fellow-travellers who pick oranges by the score, and even break off boughs
from the choicest and most conspicuous trees, and rush uninvited pell-mell into private grounds
and quiet homes of well-bred people to see and exclaim and criticise. Add to this nuisance
the fact that hundreds of invalids come yearly to the most desirable localities, turning them
into camping-grounds for bacilli. I wonder at the singular forbearance and courtesy of the
residents. 

But Rashi was not bewildered by other common transition in the Bible, the meaning of which so early
work as the Targum had obscure. Nor was i shocked by the fact that God let sure cohort adore
the stars, and that altars had been consecrated to him elsewhere than at Jerusalem. Thus his plain
anthropomorphic sense kept him from wandering along by-way and lose himself in the subtleties
in which the Ibn Ezras and the Nahmanides were entangled.

You must not forget when in Santa Barbara to visit the fine public library, the best adapted
for the convenience of actual workers of any I have entered. You must not fail to drive to
Montecito ("little forest"), to Carpenteria and Goleta.

I also advise you to spend a morning in Mr. Ford's studio, and an afternoon with Mr. Starke
and his treasures in wood-carving and inlaying, brought yearly from the Yosemite, wrought out
with his own hands. He uses nearly fifty varieties of trees in his woodwork, and few see his
stock and go away without investing in a redwood cane, a paper-knife, or an inlaid table. His
orders come from all parts of the world, and are often very large, mounting up to hundreds
of dollars. He is a simple-hearted student of nature, and a thorough workman. I enjoyed a brief
visit to Chinatown and Spanishtown close by, where I saw a woman scrubbing clothes on a long
flat board, with a piece of soap in each hand, standing in a hut made of poles covered with
brush, and noticed an old oven outdoors and the meat hung up in strips to dry. I enjoyed also
a call on the old fellow who "catcha de fisha."

CHAPTER XIV.

AU REVOIR.

Just as a woman is leaving her friends she ever has the most to chatter about. How can I say
au revoir briefly when there is so much more to tell? I so earnestly want to give California
en verdad, or in truth. There has been too much bragging from the settlers, as in 1887 the
Los Angeles Herald said that "New York would soon be excelled by that city." There is a general
desire to surpass all the rest of the world in as many ways as possible, and a general belief
that it can easily be done. And visitors have omitted all that was unpleasant, and exaggerated
the good points, so that one Californian speaks "of the dancing dervishes of travel, singing
insanely from the moment they come to us."

There is so much that is novel in this wonderland that it is hard to keep cool and look at
all sides. In 1870 all vegetables and grain were imported. Mr. Webster declared long ago in
Congress that California was absolutely worthless except for mining and grazing. The rancheros
thought the land only fit for sheep to roam over. Now great train-loads of vegetables and grain
leave daily for the East; all the earliest fruit of New York, Boston, and Chicago comes from
this State, and ships are carrying all these products to all parts of the world. From north
to south the State measures over 800 miles--as far as from New York to Florida--with an area
of 189,000 square miles--as much as New England and the Middle States combined, throwing in
Maryland. The northern and southern portions are as unlike as Massachusetts and Florida, and
the State must soon be divided. How little is known of Northern California! Next year I hope
to describe that, with its lofty mountains, wonderful scenery, lakes of rare beauty, immense
interests in grain, fruits, and mining. This little bit along the coast is but a minute portion
of the whole. I have only followed in the footsteps of the Fathers, and would like to take
you to Monterey, where Junipero Serra founded his last mission. Mrs. Stanford has placed a
statue of the dear old saint on the shore to honor his life-work. Realizing the size of the
State and its capabilities, big stories seem inevitable. As Talleyrand said of Spain, "It is
a country in which two and two make five."

Some statements need to be modified. It is declared over and over that here there are no thunderstorms.
In the Examiner of May 19th I read: "Santa Rosa was visited by a very severe electrical storm
about eleven o'clock last night. The sky was brilliantly illuminated by lightning, and peal
after peal of heavy thunder was heard. This was followed by a rain which continued until near
morning." A church steeple was struck by lightning and destroyed. This is unusual, but for
"never" read "hardly ever." No mad dogs, yet a little terrier I bought in San Francisco to
give to a friend had to be shot its first summer on account of rabies. Let us balance matters:

No malaria,       but rheumatism.
No cyclones,       "  wind and sand storms.
No thunderstorms,  "  earthquakes.
No mad dogs,       "  rattlesnakes and centipedes, tarantulas and
                      scorpions.
No sunstrokes,     "  chilling fogs.

All goes when the sun goes. The climate is "outdoors." A sunny room is essential. The difference
between noonday and midnight, temperature between sun and shade, is something to be learned
and guarded against.

Each place is recommended by doctors who have regained their own health as the place for invalids.
What Dr. Edwards says of San Diego is repeated everywhere else by experts:

"San Diego presents the most even climate, the largest proportion of fair, clear days, a sandy
and absorbent soil, and the minimum amount of atmospheric moisture--all the factors requisite
in a perfect climate."

In each "peripheral resistances are reduced to a minimum." Dr. Radebaugh, of Pasadena, who,
I believe, has not the normal amount of lung but has been restored to health by the air of
Pasadena, where he has a large practice, assures me that, in his candid opinion, "Pasadena
is the greatest all-the-year-round health-resort in the world." Dr. Isham, of same place, goes
into details, and is almost the only physician I have consulted who acknowledges drawbacks
in the Pasadena climate for those who desire a cure for throat or lungs. "This climate, like
all else here, is paradoxical and contradictory," and he mentions that the winds blowing from
the Pacific are not usually the rain-bearers, but those blowing from a point directly opposite,
and that the arid desert. Among objectionable features he mentions the "marked changes of temperature
daily, frequent fogs, excess of humidity in winter owing to protracted rains (thirty inches
in five months, from November, 1892, to March of this year); hot, dry winds that prevail in
summer, with wind and sand storms, which have a debilitating effect on nervous systems, and
are irritating to the mucous membrane."

How refreshing to find one person who does not consider his own refuge from disease an ideal
health-resort! He also owns that doctors do not know yet how to treat such troubles as bronchitis,
as is proven by their experimenting upon patients in Minnesota, Colorado, Arizona, Florida,
and Pasadena. And he closes his letter in this way:

"When local jealousies have subsided, and contending climates have had their day, the thing
of cardinal importance for an invalid such as you have mentioned to do when about to change
his or her home will be, not to attach too much importance to this or that particular climatic
condition as determined by the barometer, thermometer, hygrometer, anemometer, and other meteorological
instruments, nor to lay too much stress on a difference of a few hundred or thousand feet of
elevation above the sea; but choose a home where the environments will afford the invalid or
valetudinarian the greatest opportunity of living out-of-doors, and of spending the hours of
sunshine in riding, driving, walking, and in other ways, whereby the entrance of pure air into
the lungs is facilitated. In Pasadena the days in winter are warm enough to make outdoor life
attractive and healthful, while the number of sunny days throughout the year is above the average
of that prevailing in many other deservedly popular health-resorts."

I will also quote a letter received from Dr. W. B. Berry, formerly of Montclair, N. J., who,
coming to Southern California an almost hopeless invalid, is now fairly well, and will probably
entirely regain his health. He also is careful and conservative in statement, and therefore
commands serious attention:

                                        "Riverside, Cal., May 2, 1893.

     "Dear Miss Sanborn: To recommend any place to an invalid is to an
     experienced climate-hunter no doubt, at times, a duty,--certainly
     it is a duty from which he shrinks.

     "One does not see so many advanced cases of pulmonary disease here
     as at either Asheville or Colorado Springs. The thousands of miles
     of alkali, sage-brush, and desolation might explain that, but it
     does seem to me that a much larger proportion of consumptives are
     'doing well' in this country than in those.

     "Pure dry air, pure water, and clean dry soil are the
     climatic elements essential for the pulmonary invalid, and for most
     others. These conditions can be found at Riverside and its vicinity
     during a large proportion of the year.

     "Here, too, are cool walks, with sunshine or shade, as may be
     desired, and things on every side to interest. For, unfortunately,
     the man with a sore chest has a brain and a spinal cord to be
     stimulated and fed, not to speak of those little heartstrings
     undiscovered by the anatomist, and which yet tug and pull mightily
     in a far country.

     "In short, it would seem that any consumptive in an early stage of
     his disease who does not thrive at a moderate altitude would do
     well to come here and to stay--that is, if he will remember that
     all the climate is out-of-doors."

My own troublesome throat is almost as good as new, and I am proud to name my physician, Outdoors,
M.D. Come and consult the same unfailing restorer.

I have given, according to my humble ability, la verdad cierta--the absolute truth--about the
small fraction of the State known as Southern California.

I came with gargle and note-book, but long ago gave up the former; and as for these jottings,
I offer them to those who want to see this much-talked-of Earthly Paradise as in a verbal mirror. He
contented himself with saying: "Blest be he who does this."

Since he stuck to the observance of religion, and feared to the door
from abuses, he rede his pupils do not to give too much publicity to
certain of his difficult interpretations of the Satin.

A Truthful Woman in Southern California. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents.

"Miss Sanborn is certainly a very bright writer, and when a book bears her name it is safe
to buy it and put it aside for delectation when a leisure hour comes along. This bit of a volume
is enticing in every page, and the weather seemed not to be so intolerably hot while we were
reading it."--New York Herald.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

"EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD READ IT."--The News, Providence.

The Life and Times of Thomas Jefferson.

By Thomas E. Watson, Author of "The Story of France," "Napoleon," etc. Illustrated with many
Portraits and Views. 8vo. Attractively bound, $2.50 net; postage, 17 cents additional.

Mr. Watson long since acquired a national reputation in connection with his political activities
in Georgia. He startled the public soon afterward by the publication of a history of France,
which at once attracted attention quite as marked, though different in kind. His book became
interesting not alone as the production of a Southern man interested in politics, but as an
entirely original conception of a great theme. There was no question that a life of Jefferson
from the hands of such a writer would command very general attention, and the publishers had
no sooner announced the work as in preparation than negotiations were begun with the author
by two of the best-known newspapers in America for its publication in serial form. During the
past summer the appearance of the story in this way has created widespread comment which has
now been drawn to the book just published.

Opinions by some of the Leading Papers.

"A vastly entertaining polemic. It directs attention to many undoubtedly neglected facts which
writers of the North have ignored or minimized."--The New York Times Saturday Review of Books.

"A noble work. It may well stand on the shelf beside Morley's 'Gladstone' and other epochal
biographical works that have come into prominence. It is deeply interesting and thoroughly
fair and just."--The Globe-Democrat, St. Louis.

"The book shows great research and is as complete as it could possibly be, and every American
should read it."--The News, Providence.

"A unique historical work."--The Commercial Advertiser, New York.

"Valuable as an historical document and as a witness to certain great facts in the past life
of the South which have seldom been acknowledged by historians."--The Post, Louisville.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

With the Fathers.

Studies in the History of the United States. 8vo. Cloth, $1.50.

"Professor McMaster's essays possess in their diversity a breadth which covers most of the
topics which are current as well as historical, and each is so scholarly in treatment and profound
in judgment that the importance of their place in the library of political history can not
be gainsaid."--Washington Times.

