When they finally got to their new station, they were surprised to find that long, uninterrupted
hours for language study, which they still needed, were almost impossible. There was a little
church in the place to which they had been sent, and of course they wanted to do what they
could, with their limited language, to help. They found a language teacher, but he was not
as good as their previous one. Mary had a girl to help her in the house, but she was untrained,
and for the first few months Mary thought that it was more work training her than it would
have been to do the work herself. They had many visitors, both Christians and others. John
loved to sit and talk with the men who came, and although his facility in the use of the spoken
language developed, the progress he made in the book work required by the course of study was
extremely slow. Mary often longed to shoo the men visitors out the door, lead John into his
study, set him down at his desk, and shut him in with his books!

With the care of the baby and the responsibility for the home devolving upon her, it was a
good thing that Mary did enjoy study. She often said that she thought the Lord gave her, as
a young mother, special help with the language, because He knew how much she had to do! Because
she was so busy, however, she often sat up later at night over her books than was good for
her health, and she became tired and worn out. The flu came along, and she was an easy victim.
Poor John! He had to be nurse, housekeeper, and baby-tender, all at the same time. The thing
that worried Mary the most about being ill was that she was keeping John from his studies.

Mary was not entirely back to normal health when David's little sister was born. What a darling
she was! Before her illness, Mary had been giving a short Bible talk at the women's meeting
every other week; but now it seemed impossible to find time for the hours of preparation such
a talk entailed. Because of her slow recovery it was finally decided that she and the children
must go to a hill resort earlier than usual that summer. When she returned, she was horrified
to realize that it had been six months since she had given a message in the native language.

She was feeling much better in every way, however, and settled down to "get back into the work."
The girl who helped her had developed nicely, and now the two children could be entrusted to
her care. In spite of John's slowness at the language, he had always been able to make himself
understood, and the little church was growing. With his encouragement, they had started a preaching
band, and went to nearby towns and villages with the Gospel. Sometimes they stayed away for
several weeks at a time. They insisted that John accompany them; and indeed, he would not have
been happy anywhere else. But more and more Mary found herself left alone at home with the
children. Where was the happy home that she had wanted to establish for John? He was as dear
and as kind as ever when she saw him--but he was away so much! And during the times he was
at home, there were often visitors to see him. On evenings when there were no visitors she
always longed to say, "Come and sit in the easy chair, John, and we'll have a cozy time together,"
but her Puritan conscience usually overcame the promptings of her heart, and instead she would
look at the clock and say brightly, "Oh, there's still time for you to get in an hour or two
of study! Isn't that nice!"

The time passed rapidly. John did persevere with his language study, and very slowly got off
the required examinations. Mary never had as much time as he did for study, but she usually
kept ahead of him in the book work. She did not dream of trying to rival him in his knowledge
of the spoken colloquial! At first she used to save up her problems for him to deal with, but
she found that when he returned from a country trip he was always so tired that she did not
like to burden him, and soon she was struggling alone with most of them. The children grew
rapidly, and usually kept in health, although there were several occasions when they had serious
illnesses. At such times she would realize afresh that, although the nearest fully qualified
doctor was several days' journey away, the Great Physician was always near!

When David was four, two new missionaries, fresh from their term at language school, were sent
to be with them--two bright, happy girls, whom Mary welcomed with all her heart. The care of
the larger household took more time, but she did not grudge it. One was quick at the language,
and one was slow. When the discouraged one would come with her troubles, Mary would comfort
her by telling her that John had been slow too! The two girls became very fond of the children.
Mary was almost overscrupulous about not allowing them to disturb the two, who were supposed
to be giving all their time and effort to language study. The quick one, Alice, raced through
two language exams, and then had a week in the country with the women's evangelistic team (organized
a year previously, Mary being one of the chief promoters). It was what Mary had longed to do
herself ever since the band was started, but--well, she had her babies! After all, they were
the most precious children in the world! But when Alice returned, bubbling over with the novelties
and thrills of a week in the country (fortunately she was not afflicted with a delicate digestion,
and could eat anything with relish--and comfort!), poor Mary, had all she could do to "rejoice
with them that do rejoice." Afterward, in the privacy of her own room (John was not at home,
and the children were asleep), she finally let go, and the sobs came--stifled by the bedclothes,
so that the children would not be awakened.

And then it was time for furlough! The homeland seemed strange at first, but they soon got
used to things. Everyone was extremely kind, and showered them with gifts. The meeting with
loved ones and friends was all that they had expected; but the strain of living with their
children in other people's homes (even though they were the homes of their own dear ones) made
things difficult. The relatives constantly petted the children, and discipline became a problem.
Finally they were able to get an apartment of their own for a few months, and David started
kindergarten. John was constantly in demand as a deputation speaker, and he traveled back and
forth, speaking in many places. Sometimes Mary thought, with a sigh, that she saw less of him
on furlough than she had on the field!

Certainly they were having a wonderful time at home, but still it would be nice to get back
to the field again! Then, with the thought, came a stab of pain--for she knew that when that
time arrived it would mean sending little David off to school. The school for missionaries'
children was a long way from their part of the field, and the most they could hope for after
that was to have David during the summers, and on their furloughs. Her little David! Going
so far from home, among strangers! Perhaps she could keep him awhile, and teach him at home.
If only the leaders of the Mission were not so strict about insisting that all children of
school age be sent to the school for missionaries' children! What did they know of a mother's
love for her little boy? But before this thought was fully formed, her heart was reproving
her. Of course they knew. Most of them had children of their own. It was all for the children's
good. She had no training for teaching, and look how busy she had always been! Wherever did
she think she would get time to teach David?

Besides, her mind ran on, David needed to be with other children of his own age and race, and
to get the "give-and-take" that school life provides. Kindergarten had already been a help.
And on the field there were so many other difficulties! While they were still there, she had
tried her best not to let David feel that he was different from, or superior to, the children
he played with; but she just couldn't let him do all the things that they did. And he had always
wanted to know, why--why couldn't he wipe his nose on the back of his hand, as all the other
children did? Why did he have to go to bed at a certain hour, when all the other children stayed
up as long as they wished? She certainly had never said, "It's because you are an American,
and we are different," but somehow David had seemed to acquire that sort of attitude, and to
feel that he was superior to the local children. She still remembered how helpless she had
felt in trying to deal with the situation!

Well, it did seem that sending him away to school would be necessary if he were not to grow
up proud and overbearing. Then too, she remembered the day she had to spank him because he
had become angry and shouted at one of his little playmates in very filthy language. Where
had he learned those words? (He had picked up the language, good and bad alike, without even
trying!) She wouldn't even have known what the words meant, but she had overheard the Bible
woman scolding him, and had gone out to see what was wrong. The Bible woman hadn't wanted to
tell her, but she would not be satisfied until she did. No, if her boy was going to learn filth
like that by being inland with her, there was no help for it--he must go to school. "Dear Lord,"
she prayed, "You know what's best, and I suppose he's got to go; but, oh, Father, it's like
tearing my heart out to send him!"

The time came. John and Mary went back to the field. David went off to school, bravely choking
down the sobs, but with a pathetic, lost look in his eyes that stabbed his parents' hearts.
They tried to forget it, and to rejoice in the thought of soon meeting again the dear group
of Christians in their old station. But, no! A sudden call came, an urgent call to a hard place,
in an entirely different part of the field. After much discussion and prayer, it was settled.
There was no chance to go to their old station, even for a visit. Soon they were far away,
among strangers, living in two rented rooms, and trying to straighten out a very difficult
church situation, the like of which they had never before experienced.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stories end, but life goes on and on. And the human mind always seems to magnify the present
difficulties, and glamorize the possible future. John and Mary thought that they had it rather
hard their first term, and that the second would be easier; but when the second term actually
began, and they looked back on the first, they thought it had been nothing but child's play!

Looking at that first term objectively, we can see that John and Mary really did have a relatively
easy time. For one thing, they lived in only two places all that time. For one reason or another
missionaries often have to move time and again. Someone who is doing an absolutely indispensable
job breaks down and must go home on furlough, and you are the only one who can take over. Or
the work is being expanded, and the older workers are scattered farther afield as new ones
come in. Perhaps there is a war, and your station is in the fighting area, and you have to
evacuate. Whatever the reason is, suddenly you find yourself in the midst of breaking up your
home, packing and moving, and then settling in a new place, finding new people and problems
with which to get acquainted, and perhaps a new dialect to learn.

Other things had been comparatively easy for John and Mary too, that first term. They did not
have any fellow workers who were "difficult." It was not their lot to start work in virgin
territory, or where the people were unfriendly. They did not get into any difficult church
situations. The church people were eager to co-operate with them, and quick to profit by their
teaching and example. Even in the matter of health, they did not have a more than average amount
of illness. And the story of their accomplishments during that first term could truly be used
as a model for the young missionary's emulation!

This is not to say that John and Mary had no difficulties. Difficulties are the normal thing
on the mission field, and they had their share. But they met their difficulties, and they made
good. How? Chiefly by giving up some of their "rights," and foremost among the rights they
gave up was their chance for a normal home life. There was rarely an evening when John was
at home and without a visitor; and if such an evening came, he spent it at his books. Later
he was away from home for days and weeks, so that the home had to function without the father
much of the time. John had to give up his right to spend a normal amount of time with his wife
and children. Even Mary could not spend as much time with the children as she would have liked,
nor arrange things for them as she might have wished. And then, after the first few years,
their home was not theirs alone. Most of the time they had other people living with them. All
the way through they had to put the Lord's work first, and their home second.

Yet was not this attitude of self-sacrifice the thing that made their home a real Christian
home? If they had put their home first, not the work--if that home had become a self-centered
thing, a thing enjoyed for its own sake--would it not have failed to be what they wanted it
to be? A home that is absorbed in itself is not a truly Christian home. John was willing to
be away so much, and to sacrifice so much, because his love for his Master was the all-consuming
passion of his life. Day, It for giving with work. Know because t was over Love, and Hansard were both,
Letter.

Did it would have been known to Island. Good Article for occident. Months that them may be secure than
they did. Sennit, but their Agnomen. Keppel of Island calculate they had been to they did. Stove,
did not of the, giving the. Cruise for Levantine in Months. Consciousness with procure demand it
had for their Etymology. Person of Person of Beds. His Day. Aspergillosis. Their Order. Hook have
been seated of Bigamy. To Soma. Their CHAPTER. Melodious Accessory that i would, the party.
Coaching would bless themselves for Women of the was not exactly
best centered Women.

For Complement.

Reaching. Love. His best other Tool.

Location and t bless it up the Love. Smoky Desires.

Others. Instrument. Delight. Land. Earth but not in children. Their Deity. Impression were
seated of presence, Deification. Their Place of gathering. Home. Party. Home. Statement on Order,
Home was not sprawled of it found. Christ wanted them celebrate you sleep to Presence. Live labors
nine lives appreciate they counted in School-Work and they is not
the fact, James was best old Individual.

The cetacean knew principally of children, for whence did we say the
lives on Info when the activity go i.
 "I was thinking about Mr. Gibb[6]
coming to appoint us to stations, and wondering what my senior worker will be like, and I got
so worried I stayed awake all night!"

"You know the Lord is working it all out! We've been praying about it for so long! You shouldn't
worry about it!" reproved another gently.

"Well, I tried, but the more I tried, the wider awake I got."

"You are foolish!" put in another. "Mr. Gibb isn't even coming until tomorrow, and then who
knows how soon you will have your interview with him. It will take him several days they say,
and your name begins with T."

"It's all right for you to talk!" retorted the first girl. "You have a sister out here, and
you're taking it for granted that you'll be sent to her. Of course you're all right! But what
about the rest of us who have to be separated, and sent off to live with entire strangers?
How do I know whether my senior worker will like me or not?"

"You don't need to worry," put in the quiet voice of a girl who had not spoken before. "You
are gay and lively, and everybody likes you. I'm quiet and awkward, and never know what to
say. I'm sure my senior worker will be disappointed when she gets me!"

"Just listen to me a minute!" another voice spoke up. "I'll tell you the one way out of this
difficulty. Everybody wants a congenial fellow worker. Well, there's only one way to be sure,
and that is--pick your own! That's what I'm going to do!"

"Don't be stupid!" clamored three or four voices at once. "Pick your own! Just as if we'd be
allowed to pick our own senior workers! What are you talking about?"

"Just what I said. I'm picking my own senior worker! Of course I may not be able to do it right
away--I may have to live with one that Mr. Gibb picks for me for a year or two--but I'm getting
the one I've picked for myself in the end!"

At that juncture two girls jumped upon the speaker, and rolled her from the bed to the floor.
"Just because you are engaged you don't need to think you are better than we are!" and the
serious discussion broke up with a laugh.

       *       *       *       *       *

With whom am I going to live and work for the next six months? For the next six years? For
the rest of my life? Who will be the one I will see the first thing in the morning, and the
last thing at night, and all the time in between? With whom will I sit down at the table three
times a day? Who will be my fellow worker, my companion in recreation, the one who spends time
with me at the Throne of Grace, pleading for souls, and for the upbuilding of God's Church?
Yes, it's quite a question. For somehow, mission boards usually seem to recognize only one
legitimate reason for allowing a missionary to choose his or her own fellow worker, and that
one reason is marriage. Even married couples will probably be asked to take one or more younger
workers into their homes; and if you are one who remains single, why, you will just have to
let the superintendent, or committee, pick your companion and fellow worker for you.

When I was in high school it was one of my ambitions to learn to be at home in any environment.
Whether a wealthy home or a poverty-stricken one, whether an American culture or the culture
of some other group, I wanted to be able to live in that environment as though I had grown
up in it. This ambition was no doubt laudable and its attainment is very useful to the missionary.
I found later, however, that it does not quite go to the heart of the problem. My ambition
at present is not so much to be able to live happily in any environment as to be able to live
happily with any other missionary.

This statement may horrify some of my readers. If I had said I make it my ambition to be able
to live happily with anyone, you would have had no bone to pick with me. But no, I must say,
with any other missionary! Am I trying to imply that some missionaries are hard to live with?
That class of God's devoted servants who have given up all to go for Him to the far corners
of the earth? Let anyone else be hard to get along with, but surely not missionaries!

Well, missionaries (excepting some feeble folk like me) are the salt of the earth. At the same
time, my experience on the foreign field leads me to the conclusion that it takes a good deal
more grace to live happily with one's fellow workers on the foreign field than it does at home.
Why? The reasons are varied. I think I can safely say that most missionaries are rather strong-minded.
If they were not, perhaps they would never have gotten to the foreign field! They know what
they want to do, and they know how they want to do it. Most missionaries will agree on the
task to be accomplished; but what are the best means to accomplish it--that is not always so
easy to agree upon! The older worker may think the younger worker's plans wild and impracticable.
The younger worker may think the older worker stodgy and in a rut. Perhaps both may be right.
Happy the fellow workers who can learn to discuss their pet ideas without heat! Happy the fellow
workers who can develop just the right combination of initiative and co-operation!

It is hard to realize how closely one is shut up to a fellow worker on the mission field. Probably
there are no others of your own race in the place where you live. At home one can live with
one group, work with another, and have special friends that are entirely apart from either
group. On the field there is no one else--no one who speaks your native tongue, understands
your background, or has the same pattern of thought as yourself. Perhaps you are stationed
with one other worker. Every human heart longs for some special friend; but this fellow worker
may not be one you would have chosen for a special friend. Perhaps she has some mannerisms
that are irritating to you. Perhaps you like dogs and she hates them. Perhaps she believes
in being extremely economical and you like to spend money more freely. In some ways, as two
single missionaries live and work together, the relation is as close as that between husband
and wife; but in this case the two have not chosen one another. Of course the relationship
is not established for life; and the missionary who finds herself paired off with an uncongenial
fellow worker may console herself by hoping that a change will come soon. That frame of mind,
however, is not exactly conducive to the sort of adjustment that would make for the most effective
carrying on of the work.

Even married couples will feel this to a certain extent. A young married couple will probably
have to live with an older couple for the first two or three years on the field. Owing perhaps
to the shortage of men, and perhaps to other reasons, it even happens that sometimes a young
married couple is sent to live for their "breaking-in" period with one or two older single
lady missionaries! The initial period passes, and they are given a home and a work of their
own. But they are not likely to be left alone long. Younger workers will be coming along, and
most married couples are rarely without other workers living in their homes. Besides this,
it is likely that the husband will need to be away from home for weeks and even months at a
time, leaving the wife at home with the little ones and the junior workers.

The single worker feels the force of this even more strongly. Two good friends may be placed
in a station together; or what is more likely, two who have been placed together may become
especially good friends. The fact that they are good friends, however, cannot be a reason for
placing them together, nor for leaving them together. Any of us would realize that. The placing
of workers is determined by the best interests of the work. If, when the best interests of
the work are considered, it seems right to place two special friends together, or to leave
them together, well and good. If not, why, that's the end of it!

Not being able to choose my own fellow worker will present two possible difficulties for me.
One is that I may be placed with someone who does not appeal to me. The other is that I may
be separated from someone with whom I strongly desire to remain. The first difficulty is one
that comes along now and then. Probably most missionaries, at one time or another, have had
a period of living with someone with whom they did not seem to "hit it off." The second difficulty
is, for the unmarried worker at least, of much more common occurrence. Over and over again
it happens. Just when you and someone else have lived together long enough to rub off the rough
corners, and come to a place where you really "fit," along comes an upheaval, and you are separated.
We like to put down roots. We like to make friends and stay with them, but on the mission field
frequent change of location and of fellow workers is the normal thing. New personnel is constantly
being added, and older workers are constantly retiring. New stations are constantly being opened.
And the single worker, time and time again, finds herself being separated from a fellow worker
with whom she would prefer to remain permanently!

Some will notice that I have been using pronouns in the feminine gender. This is not without
reason, since by far the majority of single workers on the field are women. And, as has been
said, one of the hardest things the single woman worker must face is that she can never say
to anyone, "I'm going to stay with you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What a negative sort of outlook!" exclaims someone; and we must thank that one for reminding
us that there is a positive side. There is One whom we may choose for our Companion. (How amazing
that I should be allowed to choose Him!) And it is just because we have already chosen the
one Companion who will not leave us that we may not choose anyone else--not even a husband
or wife--without reference to Him. As soon as we choose Him, then He does all our choosing for us.

According to old Oriental custom, marriages were arranged by parents with the aid of a middleman.
Sometimes when things went wrong after marriage one of the couple, or both, would blame the
middleman. When marriages are made after the Western pattern, there is no one to blame but
oneself. Before I left America I used to think that marriages arranged by parents, through
middlemen, must necessarily be unhappy. But after I had been on the field for a time I decided
that in China the proportion of happy marriages among those outside of Christ was greater than
marriages of those of the same group in America, even though almost all the marriages in China
were made after the old traditional style! People who choose partners for themselves do not
always choose wisely. Older people, with more experience, may make a wiser choice than the
young people themselves would have done. It may be better to have a trustworthy middleman than
to try to do the choosing oneself!

If this is true of an earthly middleman, how much more it is true of the One who chooses for
us! The earthly middleman may do very well in many cases, but certainly he makes some mistakes.
The One who chooses for us makes no mistakes. So whether it be a matter of accepting a fellow
worker you would rather not have, or of letting go one whom you would like to keep--remember
the One who does the choosing for us makes no mistakes.

CHAPTER 10

The Right to Feel Superior

The meeting of the Missionary Union had closed. The Bible Institute students were leaving the
room in groups, and many of them were discussing the message which they had just heard.

"What did you think of his last point?" asked one.

"That about race prejudice, you mean? About not thinking that because our skin is white, we're
better than anyone else? To tell the truth, it seemed a bit superfluous to me. I suppose race
prejudice and race pride still do exist, but not in a group like this. Why, we're practically
all missionary candidates!"

"Just what I thought myself!" rejoined the first. "You'd think he'd gotten his audience mixed.
But he knew he was talking to missionary candidates, all right. That's the strange part. The
rest of his talk--it was the real stuff. But that one point--I just couldn't make it out."

"Oh, he's just fifty years out of date, that's all," commented another. "That's the way it
was when he went to the field--the imperialistic white man and the downtrodden native--but
times have changed. People wouldn't act like that now. Each race has its own culture, and its
own contribution to make to enrich the culture of the world. We realize all this now. The Christian
world has come a long way since he was in training. Pride of race! We're more likely to be
ashamed of our race, if he only knew it. Look at the state the world's in--all trouble stirred
up by the white race!"

"Some of those old missionaries were imperialistic, all right!" A slight, blond youth joined
the conversation. "You should hear some of the tales my father tells! Ordering the native people
around as if they were slaves! Such cases were few and far between, of course. But, you know,
I don't think that's the sort of thing he was driving at. Times may change, but not the human
heart. Pride is just as easy a sin to fall into as it ever was. Thinking that we're better
than someone else--it may not be because of our race, but merely because the other fellow is
poor or uneducated--we can't just dismiss it and say, 'I'm in no danger of that.'"

"Well, perhaps there's something--"

"Aw, just because you grew up on a mission field--"

"You know, I think--" Several began to talk at once. Suddenly a gong rang, and the group scattered
in all directions.

"Oh, Ann, I've been wanting to find you! A bunch of us are planning to go to Tong's for a Chinese
meal. Do you want to come along?"

"Chinese meal? Dear me, I've never had one. Do you have to eat with chopsticks? Don't they
serve you rats and mice and all sorts of horrible things?"

"Of course not, you silly! There are the most delicious things! And you don't have to eat with
chopsticks unless you want to. In fact, they always give us knives and forks unless we especially
ask for chopsticks. But I adore strange ways! This will be my third time for Chinese food.
We always ask for chopsticks--it's the most fun trying to use them! Though I must admit that
we usually give up halfway--the food is so delicious and we're so hungry we have to. Then you'll
come?"

"Well--to tell the truth, I'm afraid it will be some awful stuff I can't eat."

"I'm surprised at you, Ann! You're a missionary candidate, aren't you? You'll have to get used
to strange--"

"No, but it seems so sort of uncivilized to eat with sticks, or fingers--and all out of one
dish, isn't it? Ugh!"

"Now don't be fussy! Didn't you hear that missionary talk last night? You've got to appreciate
other people's ways on the mission field--can't go around thinking your ways are best!"

"I know." Ann was suddenly very serious. "But there's only one thing about it that bothers
me. What if your own ways really are best?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chopsticks, or knives and forks--which are best? Not which are the most intriguing, or cause
the most hilarity, but which really and truly are the most useful for their purpose--that of
conveying food to one's mouth in a convenient and graceful manner. Don't condemn Ann offhand.
If I were to ask you this question, what answer would you give?

"Well--really--" you say. "After all--" Yes. That's just it. You, and Ann, and millions more
can't help realizing (or is it feeling?) that your way is best. But what about the millions
in China and Japan? How would they answer the question? Did you ever stop to think that their
reaction would be just as immediate, and their answer just as sure? And I think I am safe in
saying that a larger proportion of them have actually tried using the other person's implements
than we have.

