THE LITTLE BOOK
  OF THE FLAG

  BY
  EVA MARCH TAPPAN

  HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

  BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO DALLAS
  SAN FRANCISCO

  The Riverside Press Cambridge

  COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY EVA MARCH TAPPAN
  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

  The Riverside Press
  CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
  PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

CONTENTS

     I. THE FLAGS THAT BROUGHT THE COLONISTS                         1

      Flags under which the early colonists sailed--The English
      "ancient flag"--The "meteor flag," "Union Jack," or "King's
      Flag"--Endicott cuts the cross from the English flag--The
      militia object to the cross on the flag--A flagless fort--Dr.
      Cotton's decision.

    II. THE PINE-TREE FLAG AND OTHERS                                8

      Flags common among the colonists--The New England
      Alliance--The pine-tree flag and coins--Flags of the
      militia--The red coat flag.

   III. LIBERTY AND LIBERTY POLES                                   14

      The demand for liberty--Opposition to the Stamp Act--Oliver
      hanged in effigy--The Liberty Tree in Boston--The liberty
      pole in New York--The Albany plan--The snake design.

    IV. THE LAND OF MANY FLAGS                                      20

      The Bedford flag--Flags at the beginning of the
      Revolution--Sergeant Jasper saves the flag--The
      rattlesnake on the flag.

     V. WHEN WASHINGTON WENT TO CAMBRIDGE                           27

      The Philadelphia Light Horse Troop--The army at
      Cambridge--The backwoodsmen--Indians offer their
      services--General Putnam unfurls a scarlet flag--The
      Liberty Tree.

    VI. THE "GRAND UNION FLAG"                                      32

      The "Grand Union Flag"--Possible sources of the design--First
      raised in Somerville--Flags on sea and land--Flag hoisted over
      the Alfred by John Paul Jones--Franklin's letters of marque.

   VII. THE FIRST UNITED STATES FLAG                                39

      The flag of the United States as decreed by Congress--The
      Betsy Ross flag--Significance of the Colors--Captain Jones
      put in command of the Ranger--The "quilting party"--The
      Drake strikes her colors to the Ranger--The United States
      flag is saluted by the French--The flag goes down with the
      Bon Homme Richard.

  VIII. FLAGS ONE WOULD HAVE LIKED TO SEE                           48

      The Fort Stanwix flag--Pulaski's banner--The first Fourth
      of July celebration--General use of "thirteen"--Copley's
      delay to paint in the flag--A Nantucket skipper carries the
      flag to London--The last battle of the Revolution--The New
      Haven peace rejoicing.

    IX. THE FLAG OF FIFTEEN STRIPES AND FIFTEEN STARS               56

      The flag of fifteen stripes and fifteen stars decreed by
      Congress--Worn by "Old Ironsides"--Leads against
      Tripoli--Seen at Constantinople--Among the Indians of the
      Louisiana Territory--"The Star-Spangled Banner"--Marking
      the birthplace of Washington.

     X. THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER                                    63

      Congress decrees the present flag--No law for the
      arrangement of the stars--The manufacture of bunting--Flags
      for the navy--Flags for the War Department--"Old Glory."

    XI. THE FLAG IN WAR                                             70

      The flag at Chapultepec--The surrender of Fort Sumter--The
      flag raised again at Fort Sumter--The Arizona flag of the
      Rough Riders.

   XII. THE FLAG IN PEACE                                           77

      Perry opens Japan to the world--Raising the flag over the
      legation in Sweden--Hauling down the flag in Cuba--The flag
      at the North Pole--The flag on Westminster Palace.

  XIII. HOW TO BEHAVE TOWARD THE FLAG                               85

  FLAG ANNIVERSARIES                                                90

  SELECTIONS
      The Star-Spangled Banner              Francis Scott Key     93
      The Flag in the Darkness              Benjamin Harrison     95
      A Song for Flag Day                    Wilbur D. Nesbit     96
      The Flag goes by                  Henry Holcomb Bennett     98
      What the Flag stands for              Henry Cabot Lodge    100
      Union and Liberty                 Oliver Wendell Holmes    101
      Your Country and your Flag          Edward Everett Hale    103
      The Home Flag                Henry Wadsworth Longfellow    104
      Old Flag                                 Hubbard Parker    105
      Britannia to Columbia                     Alfred Austin    107
      Makers of the Flag                     Franklin K. Lane    109
      Our Flag                              Margaret Sangster    112
      Our History and our Flag        William Backus Guitteau    113
      The American Flag                   Joseph Rodman Drake    115
      The Flag of our Country              Robert C. Winthrop    116
      America                            Samuel Francis Smith    117

  INDEX                                                            119

THE LITTLE BOOK OF THE FLAG

CHAPTER I

THE FLAGS THAT BROUGHT THE COLONISTS

More than three hundred years ago a little sailing vessel set out from Holland, crossed the
Atlantic Ocean, and followed down our coast from Greenland. Its captain, Henry Hudson, was
in search of a quick and easy route to Asia, and when he entered the mouth of the river that
is named for him, he hoped that he had found a strait leading to the Asiatic coast. He was
disappointed in this, but the Indians welcomed him, the mountains were rich in forests, and
the ground was fertile. "It is the most beautiful land in all the world," declared the enthusiastic
navigator.

Henry Hudson was an Englishman, but he sailed in the employ of the Dutch East India Company,
and soon the flag of this Company was well known along the Hudson River. It was the old flag
of Holland, three horizontal stripes, of orange, white, and blue, with the initials of the
Company on the white stripe. Hudson had not found a new route to Asia, but he had opened the
way for the fur-trade. In a few years the Dutch had established trading-posts as far north
as Albany. They had also founded a city which we call "New York," but which they named "New
Amsterdam." So it was that in 1609 the Dutch flag first came to the New World.

Nearly thirty years after the voyage of Henry Hudson, a company of Swedes made a settlement
on the Delaware River. This had been planned by the great Gustavus Adolphus, King of Sweden.
"That colony will be the jewel of my kingdom," he said; but the "Lion of the North" was slain
in battle, and his twelve-year-old daughter Christina had become queen. That is why the loyal
Swedes named their little fortification Fort Christiana, and over it they raised the flag of
their country, a blue banner with a yellow cross.

In course of time the Swedes were overpowered by the Dutch, and then the Dutch by the English;
so that before many years had passed, the only flag that floated over the "Old Thirteen" colonies
was that of England. This was brought across the sea by the settlers of our first English colony,
Jamestown, in Virginia. Moreover, they had the honor of sailing away from England in all the
glories of a brand-new flag made in a brand-new design. The flag of England had been white
with a red upright cross known as "St. George's Cross"; but a new king, James I, had come to
the throne, and the flag as well as many other things had met with a change. James was King
of Scotland by birth, and the Scotch flag was blue with the white diagonal cross of St. Andrew.
When James became King of England, he united the two flags by placing on a blue background
the upright cross of St. George over the diagonal cross of St. Andrew; and he was so well pleased
with the result that he commanded every English vessel to bear in its maintop this flag, "joined
together according to the form made by our own heralds," the King declared with satisfaction.
It was the custom at that time to call "ancient" whatever was not perfectly new, and therefore
the flag used before James became king was spoken of as the "ancient flag," while the new one
became the "King's Flag" or the "Union Jack." This change was made in the very year when the
grant for Virginia was obtained, and therefore the little company of settlers probably sailed
for America with the "King's Flag" in the maintop and the "ancient flag" in the foretop.

On land, among the colonists, sometimes one flag was floated and sometimes the other. In Massachusetts
the red cross of St. George seems to have been much in use; but before long that red cross
began to hurt the consciences of the Puritans most grievously. To them the cross was the badge
of the Roman Catholic Church. Still, it was on the flag of their mother country, the flag that
floated over their forts and their ships.

Endicott was one of the court assistants, but he was now removed from his position and forbidden
to hold any public office for one year. He was fortunate in being permitted to retain his head.

Endicott had been punished, but the Puritan conscience was not yet at rest, and now many of
the militia declared that they did not think it right to march under the cross. The whole militia
could not well be punished, and the commissioners for military affairs were as doubtful as
the honest militia men about what should be done. "We will leave it to the next General Court
to decide," they said, "and in the meantime no flags shall be used anywhere."

This seemed a comfortable way to settle the question, but unluckily there was a fort on Castle
Island at the entrance to Boston Harbor, and when an English vessel came sailing in, its captain
refused to pay any attention to a fort without a flag. Our present, in dealing with stone at all,
is requiring to have all our activity was excessively great; it is just the mistake as if we were
to require just our volume to be as fine work with Archangel s. Toilet'Leech does not sketch so well
as Leonardo prosecutor vinci; but do he do think the separate could say easily save that him; or
that we is refined in bringing up his talent in which it is least effective? Would say that
you rede we proffered, if he queried your proposal, to give out his wood-blocks and take to my
canvas? For, had though strike sculpture are not architectural neoclassicism,
there is an manner carving; and it is, in this majority of its applications,
and let the easy--.

 Surely
the thought of such a report as this going back to England from a tiny colony clinging to the
edge of the continent was enough to alarm the boldest. Discussions were held, and Dr. John
Cotton was appealed to.

A canny man was this Dr. John Cotton, and he decided that inasmuch as the fort belonged to
the King, it was proper that it should display the King's Flag, whatever it might be,--"while
vessels are passing," he added shrewdly; but that, as for the militia, each company might have
its own colors, and not one of them need bear a cross. So the great tempest passed by.

CHAPTER II

THE PINE-TREE FLAG AND OTHERS

In some of the colonies at least, the people must have led a rather somber life, with little
pleasure, much hard work, and much discomfort; but they fairly reveled in flags. The Indians
in their warfare preferred to hide behind trees rather than to flourish banners, and the white
men soon learned to follow their example. Nevertheless, it always seemed to the minds of the
colonists a little irregular and out of place not to carry a flag of some sort when they were
setting out on an expedition.

Probably we do not know one in twenty of all the designs for banners that entered the fertile
minds of these colonists, but they were so numerous that if they had all been displayed at
the same time, they would have almost hidden the settlements. Not all colonists were as afraid
of a cross as were the good folk of Salem. In Newbury, Massachusetts, a certain company of
foot rejoiced in a flag of vivid green. In the upper corner next the staff was a square of
white containing a red cross. The kindly councilor, who had ordered the flag to be made in
England "with all convenient speed," evidently had some sense of humor, for he wrote at the
end of his letter to the company, "The number of bullets to be put into your colors for distinction
may be left out at present without damage in the making of them." Another flag, belonging to
a company of Massachusetts cavalry, seems to have been something quite out of the common, for
it was of damask and silk and adorned with silver fringe. A real artist must have used his
brush upon it, for the bill read, "For painting in oyle on both sides a Cornett on rich crimson
damask, with a hand and sword and invelloped with a scarfe about the arms of gold, black and
silver"; and for all that gorgeousness, generously painted "on both sides," the charge was
the moderate one of £5 2s. 6d. This was made for what was known as the "Three County Troop,"
composed of cavalry from Essex, Middlesex, and Suffolk Counties in Massachusetts, and was probably
used in King Philip's War.

Now, wherever a discoverer planted the sole of his foot, he took possession for his sovereign
of all the land in sight and all the land which joined that land. Naturally, the claims of
the colonies soon conflicted. The good folk of New England made an alliance to defend themselves
against the Dutch, Swedes, and French. They managed to be good allies for forty years without
a flag. Then came one brilliant enough to make up for the delay, and sent to them across the
sea by no less a man than King James II himself. This was of white with a St. George's cross
of red. In the center of the cross was a golden crown and under it the King's monogram in black.
A few years later matters in England had changed. King James II had proved to be a very poor
sort of sovereign, and it was made clear to him that for his health and comfort--possibly for
his head--it would be wise for him to leave the country. This he did in alarm and at full speed,
tossing the royal seal into the Thames on his way. It is small wonder that New Englanders preferred
a new flag. The only marvel is that they waited so long a time before getting it. When it was
finally chosen, it proved to be red with a white canton or union cut by a red St. George's
cross into four squares. In one of these squares was the representation of a pine tree. This
representation can hardly have been a work of art, for one historian says unkindly of it that
it "no more resembled a pine tree than a cabbage." Evidently the brave colonists were not artists.
Nevertheless, even if the good folk of Massachusetts could not draw a pine tree, they were
fond of it, and their General Court decreed that it should be stamped upon the coins minted
in that colony. Now it was the right of the King to coin money, and when Charles II heard that
the ambitious colonists were making it for themselves, he was not pleased. "But it is only
for their own use," said a courtier who favored the colonies, and taking a New England coin
from his pocket, he showed it to the King. "What tree is that?" demanded the aggrieved monarch.
"That," said the quick-witted courtier, "is the royal oak which saved Your Majesty's life."
"Well, well," said the King, "those colonists are not so bad after all. They're a parcel of
honest dogs!" Perhaps they were, even if their likenesses of pine trees could not be distinguished
from cabbages and oaks. Hawthorne's story, "The Pine-Tree Shillings," is written about this
inartistic coinage.

So the story of the flags went on. Besides the English flag every little company of militia
had its standard. One flag bore a hemisphere in the corner in place of a pine tree, and another
bore nothing but a tree. The colonists did not trouble themselves about being artistic or choosing
colors of any special significance; if the ground of the flag was of one color and the cross
or whatever other figure was chosen was of another, they were satisfied. Charleston, South
Carolina, had a specially elegant flag--blue with a silver crescent--to use on "dress-up" days.
After a time even the Indians were sometimes furnished with flags, for one kindly governor
gave them a Union Jack as a protection. He presented them also with a red flag to indicate
war and a white one as a sign of peace; and probably the fortunate Indians felt with all this
magnificence quite like white folk. It was on this same expedition that a new flag was hoisted,
the like of which was never seen before. An officer discovered that a battery on the shore
of the harbor was apparently vacant. There was no flag flying from the staff and no smoke rising
from the chimney. It looked as if that battery might be taken easily. On the other hand it
was also quite possible that this was a ruse and was meant to decoy the colonists within. The
officer concluded to run the risk--of losing the life of some one else. Holding up a bottle
of brandy before the thirsty gaze of an Indian, he said, "If I give you this, will you creep
in at that embrasure and open the gate?" The red man grunted assent, crept in, and opened the
gate. Then the officer and twelve men took possession. Soon a message went from the officer
to his general as follows: "May it please your honor to be informed that by the grace of God
and the courage of thirteen men, I entered the royal battery about nine o'clock, and am awaiting
for a reinforcement and a flag." Sometimes the colonists were wanting in the grace of patience,
and this was one of the occasions. A soldier, tired of delay, decided that, although he could
not provide reinforcements, he could provide a flag; so up the staff he clambered with a red
coat in his teeth. He nailed it to the top of the staff, and it swung out in the wind, much
to the alarm of the citizens, who sent one hundred men in boats to recapture the battery. The
hundred men fired, but the brave little company kept them from landing and held their position
till the general could send help.

CHAPTER III

LIBERTY AND LIBERTY POLES

After the middle of the eighteenth century there was much talk among the colonies of liberty.
It is possible that not all the people were quite clear in their minds what that "liberty"
might mean; but whatever it was, they wanted it. England required nothing more of her colonies
than other nations required of theirs. The colonies asked nothing of England that would not
be granted to-day as a matter of course. The difficulty was that the mother country was living
in the eighteenth century, while the colonists were looking forward into the nineteenth. A
demand for liberty was in the air. The pole on which a flag was hung was not called a flag
pole, but a liberty pole.

