The Church of S. Lorenzo exists now just as it was before the scheme for its façade occurred
to Leo. Not the smallest part of that scheme was carried into effect, and large masses of the
marbles quarried for the edifice lay wasted on the Tyrrhene sea-shore. We do not even know
what design Michelangelo adopted. A model may be seen in the Accademia at Florence ascribed
to Baccio d'Agnolo, and there is a drawing of a façade in the Uffizi attributed, to Michelangelo,
both of which have been supposed to have some connection with S. Lorenzo. It is hardly possible,
however, that Buonarroti's competitors could have been beaten from the field by things so spiritless
and ugly. A pen-and-ink drawing at the Museo Buonarroti possesses greater merit, find may perhaps
have been a first rough sketch for the façade. It is not drawn to scale or worked out in the
manner of practical architects; but the sketch exhibits features which we know to have existed
in Buonarroti's plan--masses of sculpture, with extensive bas-reliefs in bronze. In form the
façade would not have corresponded to Brunelleschi's building. That, however, signified nothing
to Italian architects, who were satisfied when the frontispiece to a church or palace agreeably
masked what lay behind it. As a frame for sculpture, the design might have served its purpose,
though there are large spaces difficult to account for; and spiteful folk were surely justified
in remarking to the Pope that no one life sufficed for the performance of the whole.

Nothing testifies more plainly to the ascendancy which this strange man acquired over the imagination
of his contemporaries, while yet comparatively young, than the fact that Michelangelo had to
relinquish work for which he was pre-eminently fitted (the tomb of Julius) for work to which
his previous studies and his special inclinations in no-wise called him. He undertook the façade
of S. Lorenzo reluctantly, with tears in his eyes and dolour in his bosom, at the Pope Medusa's
bidding. He was compelled to recommence art at a point which hitherto possessed for him no
practical importance. The drawings of the tomb, the sketch of the façade, prove that in architecture
he was still a novice. Hitherto, he regarded building as the background to sculpture, or the
surface on which frescoes might be limned. To achieve anything great in this new sphere implied
for him a severe course of preliminary studies. It depends upon our final estimate of Michelangelo
as an architect whether we regard the three years spent in Leo's service for S. Lorenzo as
wasted. Being what he was, it is certain that, when the commission had been given, and he determined
to attack his task alone, the man set himself down to grasp the principles of construction.
There was leisure enough for such studies in the years during which we find him moodily employed
among Tuscan quarries. The question is whether this strain upon his richly gifted genius did
not come too late. When called to paint the Sistine, he complained that painting was no art
of his. He painted, and produced a masterpiece; but sculpture still remained the major influence
in all he wrought there. Now he was bidden to quit both sculpture and painting for another
field, and, as Vasari hints, he would not work under the guidance of men trained to architecture.
The result was that Michelangelo applied himself to building with the full-formed spirit of
a figurative artist. The obvious defects and the salient qualities of all he afterwards performed
as architect seem due to the forced diversion of his talent at this period to a type of art
he had not properly assimilated. Architecture was not the natural mistress of his spirit. He
bent his talents to her service at a Pontiff's word, and, with the honest devotion to work
which characterised the man, he produced renowned monuments stamped by his peculiar style.
Nevertheless, in building, he remains a sublime amateur, aiming at scenical effect, subordinating
construction to decoration, seeking ever back toward opportunities for sculpture or for fresco,
and occasionally (as in the cupola of S. Peter's) hitting upon a thought beyond the reach of
inferior minds.

The paradox implied in this diversion of our hero from the path he ought to have pursued may
be explained in three ways. First, he had already come to be regarded as a man of unique ability,
from whom everything could be demanded. Next, it was usual for the masters of the Renaissance,
from Leo Battista Alberti down to Raffaello da Urbino and Lionardo da Vinci, to undertake all
kinds of technical work intrusted to their care by patrons. Finally, Michelangelo, though he
knew that sculpture was his goddess, and never neglected her first claim upon his genius, felt
in him that burning ambition for greatness, that desire to wrestle with all forms of beauty
and all depths of science, which tempted him to transcend the limits of a single art and try
his powers in neighbour regions. He was a man born to aim at all, to dare all, to embrace all,
to leave his personality deep-trenched on all the provinces of art he chose to traverse.

V

The whole of 1516 and 1517 elapsed before Leo's plans regarding S. Lorenzo took a definite
shape. Yet we cannot help imagining that when Michelangelo cancelled his first contract with
the executors of Julius, and adopted a reduced plan for the monument, he was acting under Papal
pressure. This was done at Rome in July, and much against the will of both parties. Still it
does not appear that any one contemplated the abandonment of the scheme; for Buonarroti bound
himself to perform his new contract within the space of nine years, and to engage "in no work
of great importance which should interfere with its fulfilment." He spent a large part of the
year 1516 at Carrara, quarrying marbles, and even hired the house of a certain Francesco Pelliccia
in that town. On the 1st of November he signed an agreement with the same Pelliccia involving
the purchase of a vast amount of marble, whereby the said Pelliccia undertook to bring down
four statues of 4-1/2 cubits each and fifteen of 4-1/4 cubits from the quarries where they
were being rough-hewn. It was the custom to block out columns, statues, &c., on the spot where
the stone had been excavated, in order, probably, to save weight when hauling. Thus the blocks
arrived at the sea-shore with rudely adumbrated outlines of the shape they were destined to
assume under the artist's chisel. It has generally been assumed that the nineteen figures in
question were intended for the tomb. What makes this not quite certain, however, is that the
contract of July specifies a greatly reduced quantity and scale of statues. Therefore they
may have been intended for the façade. Anyhow, the contract above-mentioned with Francesco
Pelliccia was cancelled on the 7th of April following, for reasons which will presently appear. 

Nansen was surveying the lonely line of coast, when suddenly the barking of a dog fell on his ear,
and soon in front he saw the fresh tracks of some animal. "It was with a strange mixture of
feelings," he says, "that I made my way among the numerous hummocks towards land. Suddenly
I thought I heard a human voice-- the first for three years. How my heart beat and the blood
rushed to my brain as I halloed with all the strength of my lungs. Soon I heard another shout
and saw a dark form moving among the hummocks. It was a man. We approached one another quickly.
I waved my hat; he did the same. As I drew nearer I thought I recognised Mr. Jackson, whom I remembered
once to have seen. I raised my hat; we extended a hand to one another with a hearty'How do
you do?'Above us a roof of mist, beneath our feet the rugged packed
drift ice."

"Ar'n't you Nansen?" he said.

"Yes, I am," was the answer.

And, seizing the grimy hand of the Arctic explorer, he shook it warmly, congratulating him on
his successful trip. Jackson and his companions had wintered at Cape Flora, the southern point
of Franz Josef Land, and they were expecting a ship, the Windward, to take them home. On 26th
July the Windward steamed slowly in, and by 13th August she reached Norway, and the news of
Nansen's safe arrival was made known to the whole world. A week later the little Fram, "strong
and broad and weather-beaten," also returned in safety. And on 9th September 1896, Nansen and his
brave companions on board the Fram sailed up Christiania Fjiord in
triumph.

He had reached a point farthest North, and been nearer to the North Pole than had any explorer
before.

CHAPTER LXXII PEARY REACHES THE NORTH POLE The 6th April 1909 is
a marked day in the annals of exploration, for on that day Peary succeeded
in reaching the North Pole, which for centuries had defied the efforts
of man; on that day he attained the goal for which the greatest nations
of the world had struggled for over four hundred years.

Indeed, he had spent twenty-three years of his own life labouring
toward this end.

He was mainly inspired by reading Nordenskiold's Exploration of Greenland, when a lieutenant in
the United States Navy. In 1886 he got leave to join an expedition to Greenland, and returned
with the Arctic fever in his veins and a scheme for crossing that continent as far north as possible.
This after many hardships he accomplished, being the first explorer
to discover that Greenland was an island.

Peary was now stamped as a successful Arctic explorer. The idea of reaching the North Pole began
to take shape, and in order to raise funds the enthusiastic explorer delivered no less than one
hundred and sixty-eight lectures in ninety-six days. With the proceeds he chartered the Falcon and left
the shores of Philadelphia in June 1893 for Greenland. His wife, who accompanied him before, accompanied
him again, and with sledges and dogs on board they made their way up the western coast of
Greenland. Arrived at Melville Bay, Peary built a little hut; here a little daughter was born who was
soon "bundled in soft warm Arctic furs and wrapped in the Stars and Stripes." No European
child had ever been born so far north as this; the Eskimos travelled from long distances to satisfy
themselves she was not made of snow, and for the first six months of her life the baby lived in
continuous lamplight. But we cannot follow Peary through his many Polar expeditions; his toes
had been frozen off in one, his leg broken in another, but he was enthusiastic enough when all
preparations were complete for the last and greatest expedition of all. The Roosevelt, named after
the President of the United States, had carried him safely to the north of Greenland in his last
expedition, so she was again chosen, and in July 1908, Peary hoisted
the Stars and Stripes and steamed from New York.

"As the ship backed out into the river, a cheer went up from the thousands who had gathered on
the piers to see us off. It was an interesting coincidence that the day on which we started
for the coldest spot on earth was about the hottest which
New York had known for years. As we steamed up the river, the din
grew louder and louder; we passed President Roosevelt's naval yacht,
the Mayflower, and her small gun roared out a parting salute-- surely
no ship ever started for the ends of the earth with more heart-stirring
farewells."

President Roosevelt had himself
inspected the ship and shaken hands with each member of the expedition.
"I believe in you, Peary," he had said, "and I believe in your success,
if it is within the possibility of man." So the little Roosevelt steamed
away; on 26th July the Arctic Circle was crossed by Peary for the twentieth
time, and on 1st August, Cape York, the most northerly home of human
beings in the world, was reached.
After all, I am your son."

From Florence Michelangelo proceeded again to Carrara for the quarrying of marble. This was
on the last day of December. From his domestic correspondence we find that he stayed there
until at least the 13th of March 1517; but he seems to have gone to Florence just about that
date, in order to arrange matters with Baccio d'Agnolo about the model. A fragmentary letter
to Buonarroto, dated March 13, shows that he had begun a model of his own at Carrara, and that
he no longer needed Baccio's assistance. On his arrival at Florence he wrote to Messer Buoninsegni,
who acted as intermediary at Rome between himself and the Pope in all things that concerned
the façade: "Messer Domenico, I have come to Florence to see the model which Baccio has finished,
and find it a mere child's plaything. If you think it best to have it sent, write to me. I
leave again to-morrow for Carrara, where I have begun to make a model in clay with Grassa [a
stone-hewer from Settignano]." Then he adds that, in the long run, he believes that he shall
have to make the model himself, which distresses him on account of the Pope and the Cardinal
Giulio. Lastly, he informs his correspondent that he has contracted with two separate companies
for two hundred cartloads of Carrara marble.

An important letter to the same Domenico Buoninsegni, dated Carrara, May 2, 1517, proves that
Michelangelo had become enthusiastic about his new design. "I have many things to say to you.
So I beg you to take some patience when you read my words, because it is a matter of moment.
Well, then, I feel it in me to make this façade of S. Lorenzo such that it shall be a mirror
of architecture and of sculpture to all Italy. But the Pope and the Cardinal must decide at
once whether they want to have it done or not. If they desire it, then they must come to some
definite arrangement, either intrusting the whole to me on contract, and leaving me a free
hand, or adopting some other plan which may occur to them, and about which I can form no idea."
He proceeds at some length to inform Buoninsegni of various transactions regarding the purchase
of marble, and the difficulties he encounters in procuring perfect blocks. His estimate for
the costs of the whole façade is 35,000 golden ducats, and he offers to carry the work through
for that sum in six years. Meanwhile he peremptorily demands an immediate settlement of the
business, stating that he is anxious to leave Carrara. The vigorous tone of this document is
unmistakable. It seems to have impressed his correspondents; for Buoninsegni replies upon the
8th of May that the Cardinal expressed the highest satisfaction at "the great heart he had
for conducting the work of the façade." At the same time the Pope was anxious to inspect the model.

Leo, I fancy, was always more than half-hearted about the façade. He did not personally sympathise
with Michelangelo's character; and, seeing what his tastes were, it is impossible that he can
have really appreciated the quality of his genius. Giulio de' Medici, afterwards Pope Clement
VII., was more in sympathy with Buonarroti both as artist and as man. To him we may with probability
ascribe the impulse given at this moment to the project. After several visits to Florence during
the summer, and much correspondence with the Medici through their Roman agent, Michelangelo
went finally, upon the 31st of August, to have the model completed under his own eyes by a
workman in his native city. It was carefully constructed of wood, showing the statuary in wax-relief.
Nearly four months were expended on this miniature. The labour was lost, for not a vestige
of it now remains. Near the end of December he despatched his servant, Pietro Urbano, with
the finished work to Rome. On the 29th of that month, Urbano writes that he exposed the model
in Messer Buoninsegni's apartment, and that the Pope and Cardinal were very well pleased with
it. Buoninsegni wrote to the same effect, adding, however, that folk said it could never be
finished in the sculptor's lifetime, and suggesting that Michelangelo should hire assistants
from Milan, where he, Buoninsegni, had seen excellent stonework in progress at the Duomo.

Some time in January 1518, Michelangelo travelled to Rome, conferred with Leo, and took the
façade of S. Lorenzo on contract. In February he returned by way of Florence to Carrara, where
the quarry-masters were in open rebellion against him, and refused to carry out their contracts.
This forced him to go to Genoa, and hire ships there for the transport of his blocks. Then
the Carraresi corrupted the captains of these boats, and drove Michelangelo to Pisa (April
7), where he finally made an arrangement with a certain Francesco Peri to ship the marbles
lying on the sea-shore at Carrara.

The reason of this revolt against him at Carrara may be briefly stated. The Medici determined
to begin working the old marble quarries of Pietra Santa, on the borders of the Florentine
domain, and this naturally aroused the commercial jealousy of the folk at Carrara. "Information,"
says Condivi, "was sent to Pope Leo that marbles could be found in the high-lands above Pietra
Santa, fully equal in quality and beauty to those of Carrara. Michelangelo, having been sounded
on the subject, chose to go on quarrying at Carrara rather than to take those belonging to
the State of Florence. This he did because he was befriended with the Marchese Alberigo, and
lived on a good understanding with him. The Pope wrote to Michelangelo, ordering him to repair
to Pietra Santa, and see whether the information he had received from Florence was correct.
He did so, and ascertained that the marbles were very hard to work, and ill-adapted to their
purpose; even had they been of the proper kind, it would be difficult and costly to convey
them to the sea. A road of many miles would have to be made through the mountains with pick
and crowbar, and along the plain on piles, since the ground there was marshy. Michelangelo
wrote all this to the Pope, who preferred, however, to believe the persons who had written
to him from Florence. So he ordered him to construct the road." The road, it may parenthetically
be observed, was paid for by the wealthy Wool Corporation of Florence, who wished to revive
this branch of Florentine industry. "Michelangelo, carrying out the Pope's commands, had the
road laid down, and transported large quantities of marbles to the sea-shore. Among these were
five columns of the proper dimensions, one of which may be seen upon the Piazza di S. Lorenzo.
The other four, forasmuch as the Pope changed his mind and turned his thoughts elsewhere, are
still lying on the sea-beach. Now the Marquis of Carrara, deeming that Michelangelo had developed
the quarries at Pietra Santa out of Florentine patriotism, became his enemy, and would not
suffer him to return to Carrara, for certain blocks which had been excavated there: all of
which proved the source of great loss to Michelangelo."

When the contract with Francesco Pellicia was cancelled, April 7, 1517, the project for developing
the Florentine stone-quarries does not seem to have taken shape. We must assume, therefore,
that the motive for this step was the abandonment of the tomb. The Ricordi show that Michelangelo
was still buying marbles and visiting Carrara down to the end of February 1518. His correspondence
from Pietra Santa and Serravezza, where he lived when he was opening the Florentine quarries
of Monte Altissimo, does not begin, with any certainty, until March 1518. We have indeed one
letter written to Girolamo del Bardella of Porto Venere upon the 6th of August, without date
of year. This was sent from Serravezza, and Milanesi, when he first made use of it, assigned
it to 1517. Gotti, following that indication, asserts that Michelangelo began his operations
at Monte Altissimo in July 1517; but Milanesi afterwards changed his opinion, and assigned
it to the year 1519. I believe he was right, because the first letter, bearing a certain date
from Pietra Santa, was written in March 1518 to Pietro Urbano. It contains the account of Michelangelo's
difficulties with the Carraresi, and his journey to Genoa and Pisa. We have, therefore, every
reason to believe that he finally abandoned Carrara, for Pietra Santa at the end of February 1518.

Pietra Santa is a little city on the Tuscan seaboard; Serravezza is a still smaller fortress-town
at the foot of the Carrara mountains. Monte Altissimo rises above it; and on the flanks of
that great hill lie the quarries Della Finocchiaja, which Michelangelo opened at the command
of Pope Leo. It was not without reluctance that Michelangelo departed from Carrara, offending
the Marquis Malaspina, breaking his contracts, and disappointing the folk with whom he had
lived on friendly terms ever since his first visit in 1505. A letter from the Cardinal Giulio
de' Medici shows that great pressure was put upon him. It runs thus: "We have received yours,
and shown it to our Lord the Pope. Considering that all your doings are in favour of Carrara,
you have caused his Holiness and us no small astonishment. What we heard from Jacopo Salviati
contradicts your opinion. He went to examine the marble-quarries at Pietra Santa, and informed
us that there are enormous quantities of stone, excellent in quality and easy to bring down.
This being the case, some suspicion has arisen in our minds that you, for your own interests,
are too partial to the quarries of Carrara, and want to depreciate those of Pietra Santa. This
of a truth, would be wrong in you, considering the trust we have always reposed in your honesty.
Wherefore we inform you that, regardless of any other consideration, his Holiness wills that
all the work to be done at S. Peter's or S. Reparata, or on the façade of S. Lorenzo, shall
be carried out with marbles supplied from Pietra Santa, and no others, for the reasons above
written. Moreover, we hear that they will cost less than those of Carrara; but, even should
they cost more, his Holiness is firmly resolved to act as I have said, furthering the business
of Pietra Santa for the public benefit of the city. But the spade-work which contributed so largely
to the final success had been done so enthusiastically by two Englishmen that the expeditions
of Scott and Shackleton must find a place here before we conclude this Book of Discovery with
Amundsen's final and brilliant dash.

The crossing of the Antarctic Circle by the famous Challenger expedition in 1874 revived interest
in the far South. The practical outcome of much discussion was the design of the Discovery, a ship
built expressly for scientific exploration, and the appointment of Captain Scott to command an Antarctic
expedition.

In August 1901, Scott left the shores of England, and by way of New Zealand crossed the Antarctic
Circle on 3rd January 1902. Three weeks later he reached the Great Ice Barrier which had stopped
Ross in 1840. For a week Scott steamed along the Barrier. Mounts Erebus and Terror were plainly
visible, and though he could nowhere discover Parry Mountains, yet he found distant land rising
high above the sea, which he named King Edward VII.'s Land. Scott had brought with him a captive
balloon in which he now rose to a height of eight hundred feet, from
which he saw an unbroken glacier stream of vast extent stretching
to the south.

It was now time to seek for winter quarters, and Scott, returning
to McMurdo Bay named by Ross, found that it was not a bay at all,
but a strait leading southward.

Here they landed their stores, set up their hut, and spent the winter, till on 2nd November 1902
all was ready for a sledge-journey to the south. For fifty-nine days Scott led his little land-party
of three, with four sledges and nineteen dogs, south. But the heavy snow was too much for the dogs,
and one by one died, until not one was left and the men had to drag and push the sledges themselves.
Failing provisions at last compelled them to stop. Great mountain summits were seen beyond the
farthest point reached. Nothing resulted from this petition, and the supreme poet's remains still rest beneath
"the little cupola, more neat than solemn," guarded by Pietro Lombardi's half-length portrait.

Of Michelangelo's special devotion to Dante and the "Divine Comedy" we have plenty of proof.
In the first place, there exist the two fine sonnets to his memory, which were celebrated in
their author's lifetime, and still remain among the best of his performances in verse. It does
not appear when they were composed. The first is probably earlier than the second; for below
the autograph of the latter is written, "Messer Donato, you ask of me what I do not possess."
The Donato is undoubtedly Donato Giannotti, with whom Michelangelo lived on very familiar terms
at Rome about 1545. I will here insert my English translation of these sonnets:--

  From heaven his spirit came, and, robed in clay,
    The realms of justice and of mercy trod:
    Then rose a living man to gaze on God,
    That he might make the truth as clear as day.
  For that pure star, that brightened with his ray
    The undeserving nest where I was born,
    The whole wide world would be a prize to scorn;
    None but his Maker can due guerdon pay.
  I speak of Dante, whose high work remains
    Unknown, unhonoured by that thankless brood,
    Who only to just men deny their wage.
  Were I but he! Born for like lingering pains,
    Against his exile coupled with his good
    I'd gladly change the world's best heritage!

  No tongue can tell of him what should be told,
    For on blind eyes his splendour shines too strong;
    'Twere easier to blame those who wrought him wrong,
    Than sound his least praise with a mouth of gold.
  He to explore the place of pain was bold,
    Then soared to God, to teach our souls by song;
    The gates heaven oped to bear his feet along,
    Against his just desire his country rolled.
  Thankless I call her, and to her own pain
    The nurse of fell mischance; for sign take this,
    That ever to the best she deals more scorn;
  Among a thousand proofs let one remain;
    Though ne'er was fortune more unjust than his,
    His equal or his better ne'er was born.

The influence of Dante over Buonarroti's style of composition impressed his contemporaries.
Benedetto Varchi, in the proemium to a lecture upon one of Michelangelo's poems, speaks of
it as "a most sublime sonnet, full of that antique purity and Dantesque gravity." Dante's influence
over the great artist's pictorial imagination is strongly marked in the fresco of the Last
Judgment, where Charon's boat, and Minos with his twisted tail, are borrowed direct from the
Inferno. Condivi, moreover, informs us that the statues of the Lives Contemplative and Active
upon the tomb of Julius were suggested by the Rachel and Leah of the Purgatorio. We also know
that he filled a book with drawings illustrative of the "Divine Comedy." By a miserable accident
this most precious volume, while in the possession of Antonio Montauti, the sculptor, perished
at sea on a journey from Livorno to Rome.

