On the night of the 4th the "loyal" regiments began to arrive. During the session of the Executive
Committee the Taurida Palace resounded to the strains of the Marseillaise. The expression on
the faces of the leaders suddenly changed. They displayed a look of confidence which had been
entirely wanting of late. It was produced by the entry into the Taurida Palace of the Volynsk
regiment, the same one, which, a few months later, was to lead the vanguard of the October
revolution, under our banners. From this moment, everything changed. There was no longer any
need to handle the delegates of the Petrograd workmen and soldiers with kid gloves. Speeches
were made from the floor of the Executive Committee, which referred to an armed insurrection
that had been "suppressed" on that very day by loyal revolutionary forces. The Bolsheviki were
declared to be a counter-revolutionary party. 

Being hastily than and decorate with a crown of yellow hair, he attracted the attention at the
prince and was by still carried once of the palace; and to his still feats he captivated Sardanapalus
more beardless ever and rose to nocturnal greater power.
The junkers, army-officers, policemen, and the St. Georgian cavaliers were now the masters
of the situation. And all these were headed by the savage counter-revolutionists. The workers'
organizations and establishments of our party were being ruthlessly crushed and demolished.
Arrests, searches, assaults and even murders came to be common occurrences. On the night of
the 4th the then Attorney-General, Pereverzev, handed over to the press "documents" which were
intended to prove that the Bolshevist party was headed by bribed agents of Germany.

The leaders of the Social-Revolutionist and Menshevik parties have known us too long and too
well to believe these accusations. At the same time, they were too deeply interested in their
success to repudiate them publicly. And even now one cannot recall without disgust that saturnalia
of lies which was celebrated broadcast in all the bourgeois and coalition newspapers. Our organs
were suppressed. Revolutionary Petrograd felt that the provinces and the army were still far
from being with it. In workingmen's sections of the city a short period of tyrannical infringements
set in, while in the garrison repressive measures were introduced against the disorganized
regiments, and certain of its units were disarmed. At the same time, the political leaders
manufactured a new ministry, with the inclusion of representatives of third-rate bourgeois
groups, which, although adding nothing to the government, robbed it of its last vestige of
revolutionary initiative.

Meanwhile events at the front ran their own course. The organic unity of the army was shaken
to its very depths. The soldiers were becoming convinced that the great majority of the officers,
who, at the beginning of the revolution, bedaubed themselves with red revolutionary paint,
were still very inimical to the new regime. An open selection of counter-revolutionary elements
was being made in the lines. Bolshevik publications were ruthlessly persecuted. The military
advance had long ago changed into a tragic retreat. The bourgeois press madly libelled the
army. Whereas, on the eve of the advance, the ruling parties told us that we were an insignificant
gang and that the army had never heard of us and would not have anything to do with us, now,
when the gamble of the drive had ended so disastrously, these same persons and parties laid
the whole blame for its failure on our shoulders. The prisons were crowded with revolutionary
workers and soldiers. All the old legal bloodhounds of Czarism were employed in investigating
the July 3-5 affair. Under these circumstances, the Social-Revolutionsts and the Alensheviki
went so far as to demand that Lenin, Zinoviev and others of their group should surrender themselves
to the "Courts of Justice."

THE EVENTS FOLLOWING THE JULY DAYS

The infringements of liberty in the working-men's quarters lasted but a little while and were
followed by accessions of revolutionary spirit, not only among the proletariat, but also in
the Petrograd garrison. The coalitionists were losing all influence. The wave of Bolshevism
began to spread from the urban centers to every part of the country and, despite all obstacles,
penetrated into the army ranks. The new coalition government, with Kerensky at its head, had
already openly embarked upon a policy of repression. The ministry had restored the death penalty
in the army. Our papers were suppressed and our agitators were arrested; but this only increased
our influence. In spite of all the obstacles involved in the new elections for the Petrograd
Soviet, the distribution of power in it had become so changed that on certain important questions
we already commanded a majority vote. The same was the case in the Moscow Soviet.

At that time I, together with many others, was imprisoned at Kresty, having been arrested for
instigating and organizing the armed revolt of July 3-5, in collusion with the German authorities,
and with the object of furthering the military ends of the Hohenzollerns. The famous prosecutor
of the Czarist regime, Aleksandrov, who had prosecuted numerous revolutionists, was now entrusted
with the task of protecting the public from the counter-revolutionary Bolsheviki. Under the
old regime the inmates of prisons used to be divided into political prisoners and criminals.
Now a new terminology was established: Criminals and Bolsheviks. Great perplexity reigned among
the imprisoned soldiers. The boys came from the country and had previously taken no part in
political life. They thought that the revolution had set them free, once and for all. Hence
they viewed with amazement their doorlocks and grated windows. While taking their exercise
in the prison-yard, they would always ask me what all this meant and how it would end. I comforted
them with the hope of our ultimate victory.

Toward the end of August occurred the revolt of Korniloff; this was the immediate result of
the mobilization of the counter-revolutionary forces to which a forceful impulse had been imparted
by the attack of July 18th. At the celebrated Moscow Congress, which took place in the middle
of August, Kerensky attempted to take a middle ground between the propertied elements and the
democracy of the small bourgeoisie. The Maximalists were on the whole considered as standing
beyond the bounds of the "legal." Kerensky threatened them with blood and iron, which met with
vehement applause from the propertied half of the gathering, and treacherous silence on the
part of the bourgeois democracy. But the hysterical outcries and threats of Kerensky did not
satisfy the chiefs of the counter-revolutionary interests. They had only too clearly observed
the revolutionary tide flooding every portion of the country, among the working class, in the
villages, in the army; and they considered it imperative to adopt without any delay the most
extreme measures to curb the masses. After reaching an understanding with the property-owning
bourgeoisie--who saw in him their hero--Korniloff took it upon himself to accomplish this hazardous
task. Kerensky, Savinkoff, Filonenko and other Socialist-Revolutionists of the government or
semi-government class participated in this conspiracy, but each and every one of them at a
certain stage of the altering circumstances betrayed Korniloff, for they knew that in the case
of his defeat, they would turn out to have been on the wrong side of the fence. We lived through
the events connected with Korniloff, while we were in jail, and followed them in the newspapers;
the unhindered delivery of newspapers was the only important respect in which the jails of
Kerensky differed from those of the old regime. The Cossack General's adventure miscarried;
six months of revolution had created in the consciousness of the masses and in their organization
a sufficient resistance against an open counter-revolutionary attack. The conciliable Soviet
parties were terribly frightened at the prospect of the possible results of the Korniloff conspiracy,
which threatened to sweep away, not only the Maximalists, but also the whole revolution, together
with its governing parties. The Social-Revolutionists and the Minimalists proceeded to legalize
the Maximalists--this, to be sure, only retrospectively and only half-way, inasmuch as they
scented possible dangers in the future. The very same Kronstadt sailors--whom they had dubbed
burglars and counter-revolutionists in the days following the July uprising--were summoned
during the Korniloff danger to Petrograd for the defence of the revolution. Except this they give
him would seriously manage it think the heading of Capitolinus, and by symbol of the future they would
have entrance-soldiers as safety in alcazar was prepared to memory, and
anyplace as early the Koine to Athinai was name Petrograd and Pelargikon
(Wader-ry) from such pest.

(Tsetse, his. 830-842. Object. Zonaras, 7, 23.) [Frag.

This] [sidenote: Feeling.

Cytosine. 384 (a base. 370)] 1. Capitolinus, his bungalow was destruct to be the geese, his appropriation,
and his repute and easier seriously for comparison, if such yet be, were tense and had not level.
Of tomorrow, were excessively, all these castigation, for xxv destruction
in the Government, are see upon those capital against the state.
 The revolutionary masses ground into nothingness the general's
conspiracy. Just as the moderates in July found no soldiers among the Petrograd garrison to
fight against us, so now Korniloff found no soldiers on the whole front to fight against the
revolution. He had acted by virtue of a delusion and the words of our propaganda easily destroyed
his designs.

According to information in the newspapers, I had expected a more rapid unfolding of subsequent
events in the direction of the passing of the power into the hands of the Soviets. The growth
of the influence and power of the Maximalists became indubitable and had gained an irresistable
momentum. The Maximalists had warned against the coalition, against the attack of the 18th
of July, they predicted the Korniloff affair--the masses of the people became convinced by
experience that we were right. During the most terrifying moments of the Korniloff conspiracy,
when the Caucasian division was approaching Petrograd, the Petrograd Soviet was arming the
workingmen with the extorted consent of the authorities. Army divisions which had been brought
up against us had long since achieved their successful rebirth in the stimulating atmosphere
of Petrograd and were now altogether on our side. The Korniloff uprising was destined to open
definitely the eyes of the army to the inadmissibility of any continued policy of conciliation
with the bourgeois counter-revolution. Hence it was possible to expect that the crushing of
the Korniloff uprising would prove to be only an introduction to an immediate aggressive action
on the part of the revolutionary forces under the leadership of our party for the purpose of
seizing sole power. But events unfolded more slowly. With all the tension of their revolutionary
feeling, the masses had become more cautious after the bitter lesson of the July days, and
renounced all isolated demonstrations, awaiting a direct instruction and direction from above.
And, also, among the leadership of our party there developed a "watchful-waiting" policy. Under
these circumstances, the liquidation of the Korniloff adventure, irrespective of the profound
regrouping of forces to our advantage, did not bring about any immediate political changes.

THE CONFLICT WITH THE SOVIETS

In the Petrograd Soviet, the domination of our party was definitely strengthened from that
time on. This was evidenced in dramatic fashion when the question of the personnel of its presiding
body came up. At that epoch, when the Social-Revolutionists and the Minimalists were holding
sway in the Soviets, they isolated the Maximalists by every means in their power. They did
not admit even one Maximalist into the membership of the Executive Committee at Petrograd,
even when our party represented at least one-third of all the Soviet members. Afterwards, when
the Petrograd Soviet, by a dwindling majority, passed the resolution for the transfering of
all power into the hands of the Soviet, our party put forth the demand to establish a coalition
Executive Committee formed on a proportional basis. The old presiding body, the members of
which were Cheidze, Tseretelli, Kerensky, Skobeloff, Chernoff, flatly refused this demand.
It may not be out of place to mention this here, inasmuch as representatives of the parties
broken up by the revolution speak of the necessity of presenting one front for the sake of
democracy, and accuse us of separatism. There was called at that time a special meeting of
the Petrograd Soviet, which was to decide the question of the presiding body's fate. All forces,
all reserves had been mobilized on both sides. Tseretelli came out with a speech embodying
a programme, wherein he pointed out that the question of the presiding body was a question
of orientation. We reckoned that we would sway somewhat less than half of the vote and were
ready to consider that a sign of our progress. Actually, however, the vote showed that we had
a majority of nearly one hundred. "For six months," said Tseretelli at that time, "we have
stood at the head of the Petrograd Soviet and led it from victory to victory; we wish that
you may hold for at least half of that time the positions which you are now preparing to occupy."
In the Moscow Soviet a similar change of leadership among the parties took place.

One after the other the Provincial Soviets joined the Bolshevik position. The date of convoking
the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets was approaching. But the leading group of the Central
Executive Committee was striving with all its might to put off the Congress to an indefinite
future time, in order thus to destroy it in advance. It was evident that the new Congress of
Soviets would give our party a majority, would correspondingly alter the make-up of the Central
Executive Committee, and deprive the fusionists of their most important position. The struggle
for the convocation of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets assumed the greatest importance for us.

To counterbalance this, the Mensheviks (Minimalists) and the Social-Revolutionists put forth
the Democratic Conference idea. They needed this move against both us and Kerensky.

By this time the head of the Ministry assumed an absolutely independent and irresponsible position.
He had been raised to power by the Petrograd Soviet during the first epoch of the revolution:
Kerensky had entered the Ministry without a preliminary decision of the Soviets, but his admission
was subsequently approved. After the First Congress of Soviets, the Socialist ministers were
held accountable to the Central Executive Committee. Their allies, the Cadets (Constitutional
Democrats) were responsible only to their party. To meet the bourgeoisie's wishes, the General
Executive Committee, after the July days, released the Socialist Ministers from all responsibility
to the Soviets, in order, as it were, to create a revolutionary dictatorship. It is rather
well to mention this, too, now that the same persons who built up the dictatorship of a coterie,
come forth with accusations and imprecations against the dictatorship of a class. The Moscow
Conference, at which the skilfully manipulated professional and democratic elements balanced
each other, aimed to strengthen Kerensky's power over classes and parties. This aim was attained
only in appearance. In reality, the Moscow Conference revealed Kerensky's utter impotence,
for he was equally remote from both the professional elements and the bourgeois democracy.
But since the liberals and conservatives applauded his onslaughts against democracy, and the
fusionists gave him ovations when he cautiously upbraided the counter-revolutionaries, the
impression was growing upon him that he was supported, as it were, by both the former and the
latter, and, accordingly, commanded unlimited power. Over workingmen and revolutionary soldiers
he held the threat of blood and iron. His policy continued the bargaining with Korniloff behind
the scenes--a bargaining which compromised him even in the fusionists' eyes: in evasively diplomatic
terms, so characteristic of him, Tseretelli spoke of "personal" movements in politics and of
the necessity of curbing these personal movements. This task was to be accomplished by the
Democratic Conference, which was called, according to arbitrary forms, from among representatives
of Soviets, dumas, zemstvos, professional trade unions and co-operative societies. Still, the
main task was to secure a sufficiently conservative composition of the Conference, to dissolve
the Soviets once for all in the formless mass of democracy, and, on the new organizational
basis, to gain a firm footing against the Bolshevik tide.

Here it will not be out of place to note, in a few words, the difference between the political
role of the Soviets and that of the democratic organs of self-government. More than once, the
Philistines called our attention to the fact that the new dumas and zemstvos elected on the
basis of universal suffrage, were incomparably more democratic than the Soviets and were more
suited to represent the population. However, this formal democratic criterion is devoid of
serious content in a revolutionary epoch. The significance of the Revolution lies in the rapid
changing of the judgment of the masses, in the fact that new and ever new strata of population
acquire experience, verify their views of the day before, sweep them aside, work out new ones,
desert old leaders and follow new ones in the forward march. During revolutionary times, formally
democratic organizations, based upon the ponderous apparatus of universal suffrage, inevitably
fall behind the development of the political consciousness of the masses. Quite different are
the Soviets. They rely immediately upon organic groupings, such as shop, mill, factory, volost,
regiment, etc. To be sure, there are guarantees, just as legal, of the strictness of elections,
as are used in creating democratic dumas and zemstvos. But there are in the Soviet incomparably
more serious, more profound guarantees of the direct and immediate relation between the deputy
and the electors. A town-duma or zemstvo member is supported by the amorphous mass of electors,
which entrusts its full powers to him for a year and then breaks up. The Soviet electors remain
always united by the conditions of their work and their existence; the deputy is ever before
their eyes, at any moment they can prepare a mandate to him, censure him, recall or replace
him with another person.

If during the revolutionary month preceding the general political evolution expressed itself
in the fact that the influence of the fusionist parties was being replaced by a decisive influence
of the Bolsheviki, it is quite plain that this process found its most striking and fullest
expression in the Soviets, while the dumas and zemstvos, notwithstanding all their formal democratism,
expressed yesterday's status of the popular masses and not to-day's. This is exactly what explains
the gravitation toward dumas and zemstvos on the part of those parties which were losing more
and more ground in the esteem of the revolutionary class. We shall meet with the same question,
only on a larger scale, later, when we come to the Constituent Assembly.

THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE

The Democratic Conference, called by Tseretelli and his fellow-combatants in mid-September,
was totally artificial in character, representing as it did a combination of Soviets and organs
of self-government in a ratio calculated to secure a preponderance of the fusionist parties.
Born of helplessness and confusion, the Conference ended in a pitiful fiasco. The professional
bourgeoisie treated the Conference with the greatest hostility, beholding in it an endeavor
to push the bourgeoisie away from the positions it had approached at the Moscow Conference.
The revolutionary proletariat, and the masses of soldiers and peasants connected with it, condemned
in advance the fraudulent method of calling together the Democratic Conference. The immediate
task of the fusionists was to create a responsible ministry. But even this was not achieved.
Kerensky neither wanted nor permitted responsibility, because this was not permitted by the
bourgeoisie, which was backing him. Irresponsibility towards the organs of the so-called democracy
meant, in fact, responsibility to the Cadets and the Allied Embassies. For the time being this
was sufficient for the bourgeoisie. On the question of coalition the Democratic Conference
revealed its utter insolvency: the votes in favor of a coalition with the bourgeoisie slightly
outnumbered those against the coalition; the majority voted against a coalition with the Cadets.
But with the Cadets left out, there proved to be, among the bourgeoisie, no serious counter-agencies
for the coalition. Tseretelli explained this in detail to the conference. If the conference
did not grasp it, so much the worse for the conference. Behind the backs of the conference,
negotiations were carried on without concealment with the Cadets, whom they had repudiated,
and it was decided that the Cadets should not appear as Cadets, but as "Social workers." Pressed
hard on both right and left, the bourgeois democracy tolerated all this dickering, and thereby
demonstrated its utter political prostration.

From the Democratic Conference a Soviet was picked, and it was decided to complete it by adding
representatives of the professional elements; this Pre-Parliament was to fill the vacant period
before the convocation of the Constituent Assembly Contrary to Tseretelli's original plan,
but in full accord with the plans of the bourgeoisie, the new coalition ministry retained its
formal independence with regard to the Pre-Parliament. Everything together produced the impression
of a pitiful and impotent creation of an office clerk behind which was concealed the complete
capitulation of the petty bourgeois democracy before the professional liberalism which, a month
previously, had openly supported Korniloff's attack on the Revolution. The sum total of the
whole affair was, therefore, the restoration and perpetuation of the coalition with the liberal
bourgeoisie. No longer could there be any doubt that quite independently of the make-up of
the future Constituent Assembly, the governmental power would, in fact, be held by the bourgeoisie,
as despite all the preponderance given them by the masses of the people the fusionist parties
invariably arrived at a coalition with the Cadets, deeming it impossible, as they did, to create
a state power without the bourgeoisie. The attitude of the masses toward Milyukov's party was
one of the deepest hostility. At all elections during the revolutionary period, the Cadets
suffered merciless defeat, and yet, the very parties--i.e., the Social-Revolutionists and Mensheviks--which
victoriously defeated the Cadet party at the elections, after election gave it the place of
honor in the coalition government. It is natural that the masses realized more and more that
in reality the fusionist parties were playing the role of stewards to the liberal bourgeoisie.

Meantime, the internal situation was becoming more and more complicated and unfavorable. The
war dragged on aimlessly, senselessly and interminably. The Government took no steps whatever
to extricate itself from the vicious circle. The laughable scheme was proposed of sending the
Menshevik Skobeloff to Paris to influence the allied imperialists. But no sane man attached
any importance to this scheme. Korniloff gave up Riga to the Germans in order to terrorize
public opinion, and having brought about this condition, to establish the discipline of the
knout in the army. Danger threatened Petrograd. And the bourgeois elements greeted this peril
with unconcealed malicious joy. The former President of the Duma, Rodzyanko, openly said again
and again that the surrender of debauched Petrograd to the Germans would not be a great misfortune.
For illustration he cited Riga, where the Deputy Soviets had been done away with after the
coming of the Germans, and firm order, together with the old police system, had been established.

Would the Baltic fleet be lost? But the fleet had been debauched by the Revolutionary propaganda;
ergo the loss was not so great. The cynicism of a garrulous nobleman expressed the hidden thoughts
of the greater part of the bourgeoisie, that to surrender Petrograd to the Germans did not
mean to lose it. Under the peace treaty it would be restored, but restored ravaged by German
militarism. By that time the revolution would be decapitated, and it would be easier to manage.
Kerensky's government did not think of seriously defending the capital. For the plot of the digit under
which any of his foremost courtiers had been born give ammunition, he state, as to who was hostile
to him and who was intimate. Understand Number i, leaf 8.] for i have run
across the volume write by him about it. He acknowledge thus well how
he sit they with the legislator that, in hate revolutionists of many
protests, their striver and freedman and amicable amigo were collar
by him and were ask under distress whether "thus-and-together enjoy
me" or "thus-and-thus hate me."

 This was already the heat-lightning of the October
Revolution.

At the front, the situation grew worse day by day. Chilly autumn, with its rains and winds,
was drawing nigh. And there was looming up a fourth winter campaign. Supplies deteriorated
every day. In the rear, the front had been forgotten--no reliefs, no new contingents, no warm
winter clothing, which was indispensable. Desertions grew in number. The old army committees,
elected in the first period of the Revolution, remained at their places and supported Kerensky's
policy. Re-elections were forbidden. An abyss sprang up between the committees and the soldier
masses. Finally the soldiers began to regard the committees with hatred. With increasing frequency
delegates from the trenches were arriving in Petrograd and at the sessions of the Petrograd
Soviet put the question point blank: "What is to be done further? By whom and how will the
war be ended? Why is the Petrograd Soviet silent?"

INEVITABILITY OF THE STRUGGLE FOR POWER

The Petrograd Soviet was not silent. It demanded the immediate transfer of all power into the
hands of the Soviets in the capitals and in the provinces, the immediate transfer of the land
to the peasants, the workingmen's control of production, and immediate opening of peace negotiations.
So long as we remained an opposition party, the motto--all power to the Soviets--was a propaganda
motto. But as soon as we found ourselves in the majority in all the principal Soviets, this
motto imposed upon us the duty of a direct and immediate fight for power.

In the country villages, the situation had grown entangled and complicated in the extreme.
The Revolution had promised land to the peasant, but at the same time, the leading parties
demanded that the peasant should not touch this land until the Constituent Assembly should
meet. At first the peasants waited patiently, but when they began to lose patience, the coalition
ministry showered repressive measures upon them. Meanwhile the Constituent Assembly was receding
to ever remoter distances. The bourgeoisie insisted upon calling the Constituent Assembly after
the conclusion of peace. The peasant masses were growing more and more impatient. What we had
foretold at the very beginning of the Revolution, was being realized: the peasants were seizing
the land of their own accord. Repressive measures grew, arrests of revolutionary land committees
began. In certain uyezds (districts) Kerensky introduced martial law. A line of delegates,
who came on foot, flowed from the villages to the Petrograd Soviet. They complained that they
had been arrested when they attempted to carry out the Petrograd Soviet's programme and to
transfer the estate holder's land into the hands of the peasant committees. The peasants demanded
protection of us. We replied that we should be in a position to protect them only if the power
were in our hands. From this, however, it followed that the Soviets must seize the power if
they did not wish to become mere debating societies.

"It is senseless to fight for the power of the Soviets six or eight weeks before the Constituent
Assembly," our neighbors on the Right told us. We, however, were in no degree infected with
this fetish worship of the Constituent Assembly. In the first place, there were no guarantees
that it really would be called. The breaking up of the army, mass desertions, disorganization
of the supplies department, agrarian revolution--all this created an environment which was
unfavorable to the elections for the Constituent Assembly. The surrender of Petrograd to the
Germans, furthermore, threatened to remove altogether the question of elections from the order
of the day. And, besides, even if it were called according to the old registration lists under
the leadership of the old parties, the Constituent Assembly would be but a cover and a sanction
for the coalition power. Without the bourgeoisie neither the S. R.'s nor the Mensheviks were
in a position to assume power. Only the revolutionary class was destined to break the vicious
circle wherein the Revolution was revolving and going to pieces. The power had to be snatched
from the hands of the elements which were directly or indirectly serving the bourgeoisie and
making use of the state apparatus as a tool of obstruction against the revolutionary demands
of the people.

All power to the Soviets! demanded our party. Translated into party language, this had meant,
in the preceding period, the power of the S. R.'s and Mensheviks, as opposed to a coalition
with the liberal bourgeoisie. Now, in October 1917, the same motto meant handing over all power
to the revolutionary proletariat, at the head of which, at this period, stood the Bolshevik
party. It was a question of the dictatorship of the working class, which was leading, or, more
correctly, was capable of leading the many millions of the poorest peasantry. This was the
historical significance of the October uprising.

Everything led the party to this path. Since the first days of the Revolution, we had been
preaching the necessity and inevitability of the power passing to the Soviets. After a great
internal struggle, the majority of the Soviets made this demand their own, having accepted
our point of view. We were preparing the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets at which we:
expected our party's complete victory. Under Dan's leadership (the cautious Cheidze had departed
for the Caucasus), the Central Executive Committee attempted to block in every way the calling
of the Congress of the Soviets. After great exertions, supported by the Soviet fraction of
the Democratic Assembly, we finally secured the setting of the date of the Congress for October
25th. This date was destined to become the greatest day in the history of Russia. As a preliminary,
we called in Petrograd a Congress of Soviets of the Northern regions, including the Baltic
fleet and Moscow. At this Congress, we had a solid majority, and obtained a certain support
on the right in the persons of the left S. R. faction, besides laying important organizational
premises for the October uprising.

THE CONFLICT REGARDING THE PETROGRAD GARRISON

