Two days later, the forewoman, seated at her desk, was apparently absorbed in the newspaper
she was reading while leisurely disposing of her noonday lunch. In reality she was covertly
watching an excited group of girls on the other side of the room who were discussing some matter
of evident importance. Without doubt, something was wrong. The forewoman rather surmised what
the trouble was and smiled behind the shelter of her newspaper. She knew these girls and was
quite sure that the difficulty, whatever it was, would be brought to her for settlement. As
she had said to Julie, she loved her girls, and they in turn loved and trusted her.

In this instance she had not long to wait. Presently the girls cast aside napkins and lunch
boxes and moved toward the corner of the room where their forewoman was waiting. She watched
their approach in smiling silence. Slightly in advance of the others came a small, impetuous
figure, a painfully thin, cross-eyed girl of fifteen, whose abundant crop of freckles had earned
for her the sobriquet of "Speckles." She had answered to that name for so long now that she
had almost forgotten she ever owned any other. She was impulsive, good-hearted, and a general
favorite in spite of her rather sharp little tongue. Rushing up to the forewoman's desk, she
said excitedly:

"Miss Merton, it can't be true, what Louise has just been telling us, that you are going to
let that horrid Julie Benoit come back again. You surely wouldn't take her back, would you,
Miss Merton?"

"Yes, it is perfectly true," replied the forewoman calmly. "Julie will return to us next Monday,
and I hope all my girls will do everything they can to make her feel that we are glad to have
her back."

"But we're not glad. We don't want her back," cried one girl.

"Why it's impossible after what she did," added another.

"I, for one, wouldn't work in the same room with a girl like that," said a third, with a toss
of her head. "I wouldn't dare leave any of my belongings out of my sight for a single instant."

"That's just the trouble," chimed several all at once. "We wouldn't feel safe for a moment
knowing there was a thief amongst us."

During this outburst the forewoman sat quietly watching the indignant faces before her. Then
she said very gravely:

"Girls, I think we all misjudged Julie, and really almost owe her an apology. I have asked
her pardon, and though I do not expect you to do the same, I do ask you to receive her back
with kindness."

"Misjudged her! Apology!" gasped Speckles. "She took that money, didn't she?"

"Yes."

"And a person who takes money that belongs to someone else is a thief, isn't she?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Well then, I say a thief is a thief, and I don't see where any misjudging comes in," and Speckles
looked defiantly from one to another.

A tall blonde whose thoughtful blue eyes had been studying the forewoman's face, laid her hand
on the excited girl's arm, remarking gently:

"Let's not judge too hastily, Speckles dear. I think Miss Merton has something to tell us.
For my part I used to pity Julie, she seemed so weak and sickly and so terribly alone. She
was with us but she was not one of us."

"Pity your grandmother," cried Speckles the irrepressible. "If she was alone all the time,
it was her own fault. She was a stuck-up old thing and wouldn't make friends with any of us.
If you'd speak to her she'd only stare at you with those fierce black eyes of hers and answer
yes or no just as short and snappy as you please."

"I doubt if we tried very hard, any of us, to win her friendship, the poor little thing. And
she did seem so forlorn and lonely at times," answered the blonde. "But there, girls, let's
all keep quiet if we can for I know Miss Merton has something to tell us."

"You are right, Louise, I have a little story to tell you, the story of Julie Benoit," and
she told them Julie's story as she had heard it from Julie herself. In conclusion, she added:
"When I left that poor child beside her dead mother, I went at once to the superintendent and
told him the whole story. You girls know how kind he is; many of you have had personal experience
of his charity. He called in his wife and together they planned to bury Julie's mother as a
Catholic should be buried, they to stand all the expense. They have also undertaken to see
that the younger children are sent to school and the grandmother properly cared for, and Julie
is to return to her place here on Monday.

"I wish you could have seen her face when I went back to those two dreadful rooms in the alley
where she lives and told her what the superintendent and his wife had said. She stared at me,
amazed, incredulous; then said slowly in an awed whisper:

"'They do all that for me, Julie Benoit the thief! You tell the lady it is I who steal her
money but she forgive and have my mother buried like a Christian. She have her taken into church
where the priest will bless her and pray over her. She have her buried where I can go and kneel
beside her grave and tell her that I love her still and that I forget her never, no never.
The lady do all that for me who steal her money. But she is good, she is kind to forgive me.'

"After a moment's thought, she added: 'You think God will forgive me too? I very bad, very
wicked; I say all those dreadful things about Him, but He will forgive me, is it not so? Grandmother
say He good and kind. You think He will forgive me if I ask Him?'

"It was a very different Julie that I left that night; oh! very different from the girl who
met me with such fierceness earlier in the evening. Just as I was leaving, she said to me very
humbly: 'The girls at the factory, you think they will forgive me also? I very rude to them;
I say I hate them all. You think they will forgive me?'

"So now, my girls, your welcome to Julie on Monday morning will be the best answer to that
question."

"Will we forgive her, the poor girl!" cried Speckles impulsively. "You bet we will. If there's
any one here who won't be kind to that poor little Julie, she'll just have to reckon with me.
I think it is we who should ask her to forgive us, for I must admit we were all rather hateful
to her. Oh, I say, girls! I've just got an idea," she continued. "Here, Louise, just hand me
one of those empty boxes from that shelf over your head. There you are. Now then, this is a
hat and I pass it around to each one of you, so. I say to each one of you: 'Did you notice
that poor Julie has been wearing a thin summer coat all this bitter winter weather? It used
to make me shiver just to look at her. Did any of you notice that her shoes were all broken
through and even in rain or snow storms she never had any rubbers to wear over them?' Suppose
each one of us chip in a few pennies, we can all spare a little, and have Miss Merton give
it to her to buy shoes or something for herself. I'll start with fifty cents."

The box was passed from one to another, each contributing what she could, and each contribution
meaning more or less of a sacrifice to the donor. In this way a goodly sum was collected and
laid on Miss Merton's table.

"There, girls," said the triumphant Speckles. "That will show Julie whether we have forgiven
her or not. And now, do you hear that musical whistle calling us back to our places? We'd better
hustle for the machines will start up in a minute or two. Machines are like time and the tide,
they wait for no man. Nor woman, either, not even for Julie Benoit," and with a laugh, Speckles
was off like the wind.

As the girls departed, each to her own machine or work-table, Miss Merton looked after them,
a tear in her eye and a smile upon her lips.

"God bless my girls," she said to herself. "Their hearts are in the right place, every one
of them. I need have no fear of the welcome they will give my poor little Julie Benoit."

PETER.

Peter was thinking. Not that it was an unusual event for Peter to think. Quite the contrary!
To Peter himself it seemed that life was one continuous round of thinking and planning and
worrying. It certainly was for him, especially since the advent of the baby, that wonderful
baby sister of his. Somehow things had not mattered so much before, when there was no one to
be considered but himself. Now it was different, with his baby to be thought of and cared for.
Peter was worried and anxious. He felt that a great responsibility rested upon his shoulders.
They were young shoulders, too, far too young to be burdened with the cares and troubles of life.

The winter wind came tearing down the street, stinging his face and piercing through his thin
garments. Shivering, he turned up the collar of his worn and ragged coat and thrust his hands
deep into the pockets. Then he hastened on with eyes on the ground and bent down head, for
Peter was thinking. A mighty problem confronted him, a problem which must be solved at once.

He turned into the dirty, narrow alley in which he lived, opened the door of a tenement house,
and, running quickly up a flight of stairs, entered Mrs. Dempsey's kitchen. The savory odor
of frying ham greeted his nostrils and reminded him that he had had nothing to eat since morning.
Well, never mind that, he would have supper soon now, he and baby together.

"Bless me, Peter, is that you home so early?" cried cheery Mrs. Dempsey turning around from
the stove, frying-pan in one hand, a large fork in the other. "You must have had good luck
to-night to be back so early."

Peter caught up in his arms the pretty child who toddled across the floor and threw herself
upon him with a shriek of delight. With a gravity befitting his great responsibility, he seated
himself upon a nearby chair, holding the baby close to him and smoothing back the tangled yellow
curls.

"Yes, Mrs. Dempsey, I had real good luck to-night. Was all sold out long afore the other fellers,
then hustled right home to baby. "vii.-- where sadness, so doth break Peter Sunday Nile boy and would
make no heart.

Sovkû, to bring the crocodile, had the Nit, leaps for wish; [*]-- for gods who accompany on have
not ordered all things,-- the presents could know the fields-- and clotheth all men were poor; one man
of no,-- without back being brought against ye wanted nothing. [**]*
the goddess for Saturday, does the heifer was told from bother, had
two crocodiles as ones, which are sometimes represented on monuments
as hanging i would from privacy.

There had the part was played by animals,
and the reason for link them helped with goddess, are both amiss understood.**
every is the allusion to the ideas and lawsuits from father in his years
when does much turkey was festive or mass girls.

If does the inundation is unknown, disputes at beginning." ix.-- if thou dost not hope nothing
for midst is reminded out of presents were to baby of gladness oh,--
if they to bother anything with joy when thou does heed forth out
of an primordial,--'it is that thy heaviness.-- and if he have been
prowess implored out to water was known of night,-- the North are
seen side wondered by every side,-- another child with another angels
of trade,-- none tarrieth behind person;-- of the valiant themselves,
when the man Saturday maketh themselves (with clothed garments) one
the children bring anything of Thot, the subject of all girls, the
longer adorn himself with jewelry,-- nor could have absently come
the gods, but they are in night!-- as soon as thou could have answered
by good, one the one s'himself with perfumes.

 He had not known Mrs. Dempsey last Christmas; she came to
the alley only a few months ago. Life had been somewhat easier for Peter since her coming for
she helped so much in caring for baby while he was out. He wished Mrs. Dempsey would give baby
something for Christmas. He had hoped to do so himself, but somehow he never could find a cent
for anything except the absolute necessities of life. Sometimes he could do no more than provide
bread and milk for the baby and go hungry himself. That was when father would beat him and
take away the few pennies he was saving to buy food for the little sister and himself.

With baby held carefully in his arms, Peter descended the two flights of stairs to his home
in the cellar. As he pushed open the door of the room which served as kitchen and living room
in the daytime and as sleeping apartment for himself and baby at night, the damp chill of the
place struck him as it never had done before. Groping his way to the table he lighted the candle
upon it. Then, after wrapping baby in his mother's old shawl and depositing her upon their
bed in the corner, he proceeded to make a fire in the cracked and rusty stove. Peter was only
eleven, but the children of the slums are little men and women almost from their cradles, and
Peter was really the man of the family. He it was who cared for the baby and prepared their
frugal meals; he it was who cried his papers upon the street in the cold darkness of the winter
mornings, who ran errands all day for the grocer on the next corner and again in the evening
sallied forth with his papers under his arm in order to procure food to keep the life in their
bodies. If father ever earned any money but little of it was contributed to the family support.

As Peter wrestled with the fire, which positively refused to kindle, he was still revolving
in his mind the problem which troubled him. He had been thinking of it all day, and the only
thing he could decide was that something must be done at once, but what that something was
to be he could not imagine. Things had been going from bad to worse lately, and after last
night he would never know an easy moment while baby was under the same roof with father and
mother. For himself he did not care. He had grown accustomed to the beatings, to the drunken
quarrels and fearful language; in fact, he had never known anything different. But last night
father had tried to hurt baby. He might try again and perhaps next time no Peter would be at
hand to save her. They were unusually bad last night, both father and mother; the child was
frightened and had begun to whimper. Angered still further by the sound, the man had seized
a stove-lifter and flung it straight at baby's head. But Peter had already sprung between and
the missile struck him full on the forehead, causing a wicked-looking bruise. He had lain stunned
for a time, then crept into bed with baby and listened in terror as the quarrel between his
father and mother progressed from words to blows. He had not minded these things before, but
what would he do if father should ever beat baby as he, Peter, had been beaten so many times?
And Peter felt the time was coming when father would surely do it. Last night was but the beginning.

A noise from the next room told him that mother must be waking from the drunken sleep in which
she had lain for several hours. At any moment she might open that door and enter the kitchen,
and her temper was always terrible when she would first awaken from those long sleeps which
followed a carousal. In a few moments, too, father would come home. The fire refused to burn;
so supper would not be ready, and with mother in a temper and no supper at hand, something
would surely happen.

Peter looked at the sleeping baby and shuddered. For her sake he dared not face another night
like last night. Yet, what could he do? A volley of imprecations from the next room decided
him: he must take baby away from here and at once. Yes, he would take her away, but where,
where could he go? Where in all the great city could he find a shelter for his baby on this
cold winter night? If he did take her away it might be only to have her freeze to death on
the street. Well, they must go, anyway. No matter what happened to them later they must leave
here at once.

Rearranging the shawl so that part of it covered the golden head, he stooped and gathered the
baby into his arms. Then it all came to him in a sudden flash of inspiration and he almost
laughed aloud in his joy as he hurried from the room and out into the street. He knew exactly
where to go and wondered why he had not thought of it before. How foolish he had been not to
think of it at once!

One day last summer he had stood outside a tall iron railing and watched a crowd of happy children
at play in the grounds which the railing enclosed. He could see it all now, the yard, the romping
children and the great brick building on the other side of that railing through which he watched
enviously. They were having such a good time, he did wish he might go in and join in the fun.
But he could not spare the time, he had wasted too much already, and the grocer would scold
him for being so long on the errand which had brought him into the neighborhood of the yard
and the children. As he turned reluctantly away, two ladies passed and he heard one say in
answer to a question from her companion:

"That building? Why, that is St. Teresa's Orphanage, a home for poor children who have no parents
or else have bad ones who neglect or ill treat them. The good sisters gather in all such needy
children whom they can find, care for them, educate them and teach them a trade so that they
may----"

The rest Peter had not heard, but those few words, spoken by the passing lady on that day last
summer, had suddenly recurred to his mind. "St. Teresa's Orphanage, a home for children with
bad parents who neglect or ill treat them." That was their case exactly, baby's and his. To
St. Teresa's, then, they must go in search of a home. He was quite sure he could find it again.
It was ever so far away, over on the other side of the city, but he remembered the way perfectly,
and would have no difficulty in reaching the orphanage.

For some time Peter trudged bravely along the city streets. It was quite dark now and lights
streamed from the windows of shops and houses as he passed. Throngs of people hurried by anxious
to escape from the cold night to the firesides of home. All these people carried mysterious-looking
parcels; "Christmas presents for some happy little boy or girl," thought Peter. Twice he stopped
to shift the baby from one shoulder to the other. He never knew before that she was so heavy;
his half frozen little arms almost refused to carry their burden any longer. He was terribly
tired, and he wondered why the lights were dancing so. They were turning round and round and
made him so dizzy he could scarce see where he was going. He did not think, that day last summer,
that the way was quite so long as this. Surely, he must have been walking for hours and hours.
Oh! why was baby so heavy and why would those lights persist in dancing so?

He wondered if they could be lost and what would happen to them if they were. He was almost
certain he had taken the right turnings every time, but he might have made a mistake. At that
last corner he was not quite sure whether he should turn to the left or the right. If they
were lost, what would become of them?

The lights were acting very strangely to-night; they had stopped dancing now but were all turning
black, and what was this funny feeling that was creeping over him? He sat down hurriedly on
some steps he was passing and leaned his head against the railing for support. He felt baby
slipping from his arms onto the step beside him but was powerless to hold her. Once more that
funny feeling was creeping over him and he wondered if he could be dying. Mr. Dempsey's Tim
had died. Peter had gone upstairs to see him. They had put him into a funny-looking white box
that was nearly covered with flowers, and he looked so strange lying there all white and still
among the blossoms. The next day the white box, the flowers and poor little Tim were carried
away. The neighbors said Tim was dead; Mrs. Dempsey said he had gone to heaven. Peter wondered
if he died would anyone put him in a white box and cover him with flowers; if he died, would
he go to heaven and see Tim there?

Peter had often been very anxious as to what heaven was like. He had asked Mrs. Dempsey. Her
answer had not been quite satisfactory, but then she could not know exactly since she had never
been there. And the angels, what were they like? Again Mrs. Dempsey had been referred to and
again the reply was most disappointing. Beautiful beings with wings? Why, birds had wings and
some of them were very beautiful. As for singing before the throne of God; well, Peter could
not even guess what the throne of God meant.

He guessed he must be dying; he felt dead already, all except his head. That would go soon
and then he would see the angels he had wondered so much about. But if he died, what would
become of baby? Who would look after his precious baby? That dreadful thought caused him to
open his eyes suddenly. With a great effort he raised his head and the sight of the iron railing
against which he was leaning made his heart bound with a sudden thrill of hope and put new
life into the exhausted little frame. It was the railing through which he had watched the children
on that day last summer, and the steps on which he sat were the steps of St. Teresa's Orphanage.
He had taken the right turning after all and had reached his destination without knowing it.

With difficulty. Peter got upon his feet, lifted the baby and essayed to drag himself up that
long flight of steps. Panting, exhausted, he reached the top and laid his burden down at the
threshold of that door which always opened so gladly to receive such waifs as he. In the darkness
Peter felt around for the bell. Surely, there must be a bell somewhere. He must find it quickly
for that dreadful feeling was creeping over him and he knew in another moment he would fall.
Where was it; oh! why could he not find it? At last the despairing fingers touched the button
of an electric bell; they pressed it hard, and a loud peal rang through the hall inside. Then
Peter sank down to the ground beside the baby and even his head went this time.

A moment later (or so it seemed to Peter) he opened his eyes and saw bending over him the most
beautiful face he had ever beheld. He knew now that he was in heaven was looking on the face
of an angel. It was just what he should think an angel's face ought to be, so sweet and kind
and gentle, the soft eyes filled with heavenly love and pity. And there were the wings, too,
all white and shining, but Mrs. Dempsey had neglected to mention that angels' wings grew out
of their heads. Somehow, Peter had supposed their wings grew from their shoulders; he was sure
Mrs. Dempsey had said so. He would like to send her a message and tell her how mistaken she
had been. He wondered if he could.

He felt a gentle hand slip beneath his shoulders and raise him a little and the angel commenced
to feed him with something warm and sweet upon a spoon. It tasted better than anything he had
ever eaten before.

Suddenly he thought of baby. What had happened to her? Was she in heaven too? He tried to ask
the angel, but found he could not utter a word; he was too weak and tired. The kind eyes watching
him interpreted rightly the anxious look that crossed his face; they were well accustomed to
divining the unspoken troubles of worried little minds. The angel spoke and to Peter the voice
sounded like heavenly music:

"You must not try to talk, dear. Just finish this gruel like a good boy and then go to sleep
again. Your baby sister is quite safe, and is sleeping sweetly in her crib over in the little
one's dormitory. You shall see her in the morning if you are good now and do as I tell you."

As he finished the gruel his eyes closed wearily for a moment, and when he opened them again
there were two angels leaning over him. The second was not nearly so lovely as the first, but
her face, too, bore that same look of heavenly sweetness which Peter felt instinctively none
but angels' faces could wear. It was the look which older people than Peter have often marveled
at; the look one sees upon the faces of those who have died to the world and to themselves
and given their entire being to God in a life of charity and self-sacrifice.

The second angel laid her fingers on his wrist and seemed to be counting something as she kept
her eyes on a small silver watch she held in her hand. Then she poured a spoonful of bright-colored
liquid from a bottle, and, lifting his head, bade him swallow the medicine. Unquestioningly
he obeyed, and as his head was laid back upon the pillow he felt himself slipping away into
the land of oblivion. Just as consciousness was leaving him, he heard a voice, seemingly far
away, saying:

"He will do very nicely now, Sister Agnes. It was simply a case of starvation and complete
exhaustion."

Vaguely he wondered what she meant.

GOD'S WAY.

"We have reached the summit at last, Cecile? The hill seemed unusually steep to-night and the
way unusually long."

"Yes, mother, we have reached the top at last and here is the rustic bench on which we usually
sit and watch the sun go down behind those blue and misty hills in the distance."

"Ah! those hills, Cecile. How I have always loved them. To me this has ever seemed the fairest
spot on earth, and the view from this hill just at sunset the most beautiful I have ever seen.
It is ten long years since my eyes have beheld it, but in my mind I still see it all so clearly.
Tell me it is all there, Cecile, just as it was on that evening so many, many years ago when
I first looked upon its beauties. Your dear father had just brought me, a happy bride, here
to his northern home. We walked up the hill together to watch the sun set and I thought then
I had never seen a lovelier view: the green fields of waving corn, and the apple orchards all
in blossom, sloping down gradually to the river; the river itself tumbling and tossing madly
over the waterfall far up there to the left, then swirling and eddying on for a space, only
to grow calm once more quietly, steadily, resume its placid journey to the ocean. Beyond the
river, those wonderful forests, dark, mysterious and silent. They rise and rise, higher, ever
higher, and terminate at last in the blue and misty hills of which you were just speaking.
I love it all, Cecile, and I could not bear to think that any part of it had changed with the
advancing years. Tell me it is just the same; tell me it is all there as it was so long ago."

"Yes, mother dear," answered the younger woman, "it is all there just as it has ever been;
the fields and the river, the forests and the hills beyond."

Cecile neglected to mention that the fields were now mere barren stubble and that the river
was visible only here and there as it peeped through between the many buildings lining its
banks; immense buildings of factory and mill, smaller structures, cottages and tenement houses
occupied by the workers in factory and mill. She supposed the forests were still there but
the day had been very sultry with scarce a breath of air stirring and a heavy pall of smoke
from the huge chimneys hung over the valley, hiding everything which lay beyond. Only the tops
of the distant hills rose in triumph above it.

"I am glad to think it is all unchanged," said the mother with a sigh of content. "I know it
is foolish to feel as I do about it, but it would be a real grief to me to think that my beautiful
valley had been sacrificed to the need or the greed of advancing civilization."

"God has been very good to me, Cecile, and I thank Him with all my heart for the blessings
He has sent me to compensate for that one dreadful calamity, your dear father's sudden death
ten years ago and my long illness and subsequent blindness. As I sat to-day in my little garden
listening to the twittering of the birds, and inhaling the fragrance of my flowers, I was thinking
how peaceful and happy my life is and how grateful I should be. You know, dear, just occasionally
I long to be able to see again, to see the birds and the flowers, to see the beautiful world
around me. That is very wrong and wicked I know, and I chase the rebellious wish away by thinking
of my many blessings, especially of you and my Philippe. You have both been my comfort and
consolation. By the way, dear, no letter has come from Philippe to-day?"

"No, mother, not yet."

"It is strange that we have not heard from him. This is the first time he has not written to
me for my birthday."

"But he did not forget you, mother. Are you not wearing his beautiful gift to you which arrived
this morning?"

"No, he did not forget," replied the older woman, as her fingers strayed lovingly over the
lace scarf resting so lightly on her snow-white hair. "My Philippe never forgets and that is
why I worried just a little this morning when his usual birthday letter did not come. Then,
this afternoon, a sudden idea occurred to me which made me very happy. Shall I tell you what
it was, Cecile? I am quite sure I have discovered the reason why Philippe did not write me
for my birthday."

It was well the blind eyes could not see the look of startled fear which flashed across Cecile's
face.

"You have discovered why he did not write?" she exclaimed, and her voice trembled slightly.

The mother laughed happily. "Yes, I am quite sure I have discovered the reason. I have a feeling,
and I know it is a true feeling, that before my birthday is quite over Philippe will be here
with us. He is coming, Cecile; he is not far away at this very moment, and before the evening
is over he will be with us."

Tears filled Cecile's eyes but she rose quietly and said, trying to speak lightly:

"The night mist is rising from the river, mother dear. Had we not better turn our faces toward
the east and home?"

"You are right, child, it will be as well for us to go home a little early to-night. I am feeling
unaccountably weary though very, very happy. It will be best for me to go home and rest a little
before the evening train arrives bringing my Philippe back to me."

Cecile said nothing, but very gently, very tenderly guided the blind mother's steps as they
wended their way homeward in the sweet summer twilight.

Half an hour later Cecile paced restlessly up and down the broad veranda of her home. She had
left her mother sleeping on the couch in her pretty sitting-room upstairs and could now face
the problems and difficulties which confronted her. In her mind she reviewed the years that
had come and gone since that sad night when her dying father had whispered almost with his
last breath:

"Your mother, Cecile; I trust her to you. Take care of her for me when I am no longer here
to watch over her myself. Promise me you will shield her from every worry, that you will stand
between her and all troubles as I have always done."

