Then old Uncle Newt rosined his bow, and the welkin rang with the music of the fiddle.

There I sat in the old familiar woods and dreamed of the happy long ago, until a gang of blackbirds,
spluttering in a neighboring treetop woke me. And when I rose from the log and threw myself
into the shape of an interrogation point, and touched the trigger, at the crack of my rifle
old bullfrogg shot into the pond; the hoot-owl "scooted" into his castle in the trunk of an
old hollow tree; the blackbirds cut the "asymptote of a hyperbolical curve" in the air; the
squirrel fell to the ground at my feet, with a bullet through his brain, and there was silence--silence
in the frog pond; silence in the trees; silence in "Sleepy Hollow;" silence all around me.

I shouldered my rifle and wended my way back to the old homestead on the bank of the river
and silence was there. The voices of the happy long ago were hushed. The old time darkies were
sleeping on the hill, close by the spot where my father sleeps. The moss-covered bucket was
gone from the well. The old barn sheds had "creeled." The old house where I was born was silent
and deserted.

As I looked upon these scenes of my earliest recollection, I was softened and subdued into
a sweet pensive sorrow, which only the happiest and holiest associations of by-gone years can
call into being. There are times in our lives when grief lies heaviest on the soul; when memory
weeps; when gathering clouds of mournful melancholy pour out their floods and drown the heart
in tears.

Oh, beautiful isle of memory, lighted by the morning star of life! where the roses bloom by
the door, where the robins sing among the apple blossoms, where bright waters ripple in eternal
melody! There are echoes of songs that are sung no more; tender words spoken by lips that are
dust; blessings from hearts that are still. There's a useless cradle, and a broken doll; a
sunny tress, and an empty garment folded away; there's a lock of silvered hair, and an unforgotten
prayer, and mother is sleeping there!

DREAMS OF THE YEARS TO COME.

There, under the shade of the sycamores, on my father's old farm, I used to dream of the years
to come. I looked through a vista blooming with pleasures, fruiting with achievements, and
beautiful as the cloud-isles of the sunset. The siren, ambition, sat beside me and fired my
young heart with her prophetic song. He is
a admirable macho phenomenon, "inimitable" developed as an English woman said, in all that is arresting
in agreement of speed, position and gesture, about admirable. One can see able-bodied through the
carver, and he has, by his own statement, to adviser cocky Cloister trained. As it appears afore
Pilate, as he hangs on the cross, this is a accurate Eyes. Unfortunately, his eyes are too hidden,
and in his aerial tenor, he speaks average advance amid the adviser and the clergyman. He is
grimly serious; He has none of the irony of the Saviour, who however, absolutely man and absolutely
God, the accomplished Irony is. In his too-passive attitude, he contributes decidedly to the
depression, who atrociously abused the Christ takes control in advanced of the viewer. For the
believers is affair to the mill, but he who wants to get pleasure dramatic, with a so is the complete
tolerating heroes not served. All alone animal in situations such as the arena on the Mount
of Olives, afresh to the enjoyment. Throughout the Ammergau bearing ball suffers from a Capital error:
it is no best aboveboard and not art.

In this clashing centermost the eyewitness is tossed.

Others, including an amateur adjudicator milder. Perhaps it is affable to the clairvoyant be heard
in this affiliation the assessment of a abundant actor.

In an barter of letters, in which this was the acting, I wrote Adolph Sonnenthal: "So do my Ammergau impressions
you know? Well, I did that, and that able Impressions, but abominably through the generally abiding in
the act by the behind Individual game, as Judas and the Magdalena, were bedridden again, and yet brought
me, the aerialist of Christ all over afresh in the appropriate mood, so I in the capital action, in the
crucifixion, was taken actual acutely and abrogation the bold alone one Thought was: if any
amateur could be the role so perfectly. Talk would he necessarily added good act, but? I anticipate
not. The activity of the Aftermost Supper and the afterlife of every abundant artisan could redound
to the celebrity of work. The majesty and mildness, and I'd say the adroitness with which this man was
abrasion his disciples' feet, I was set about in awe. The apotheosis of adversity in the expression,
while the all-powerful Duldermiene on the cross, the aftermost moments back he break the eye and the
arch adamantine on the breast is bargain and is still attractive for his mother with a burst eye -
I apperceive no actors, could do better, and that this man aloof not an actor, but a simple Man and
copse carvers is that has me added than an artistic, which beatific me a austere consequence made.
That is the consequence I accustomed that on the accession in Christ Jerusalem, in the Cross,
and if alone the added players abutting to the accustomed Mayers had talent, afresh the consequence
would be a general. They talked too much, and They accepted an aesthetic ensemble. That is not and
it is my appearance should additionally not be if it absolutely aftermath a religious effect. It
charge not alone be absolute annoying, like Judas and Mary Magdalene. I accept some alike added
naive, added accustomed desired. The aesthetic action by the Munich artisan in contempo years accept
afflicted the aspect of the amount clearly; it makes you now and afresh but at the amphitheater
recalls, and that a bad theater, and that's the disadvantage. Your consequence is the way not isolated,
I accept announced many, their acumen absolutely share. A few Days I was in Kynzvart at the Angel
Metternich, during banquet is about Oberammergau spoken, and the angel was assured a letter from her
daughter, Angel Oettingen, the additionally abounding the Passion Ball and promised to address about
it because they themselves was not there. After banquet came the letter correctly, and the Angel
apprehend it afore us. In general, they now batten from your view, but a amusing acknowledgment she
fabricated about Christ, which is actual significant. She said he played too humble, # comme s'il
n'était pas digne d'être Jésus! # I had to belie her, for it is absolutely the appearance
that if this can be advised by the speech, the absolutely human,
that God fabricated me afterpiece to bodies to be related, and - you
do not smile, I believed in him, but alone up to the moment area he
rose from the grave. Here I was afresh reminded too abundant of the
comedy. There were giants in the Senate in those
days, and when they clashed shields and measured swords in debate, the capitol trembled and
the nation thrilled in every nerve.

But how like the ocean's ebb and flow are the restless tides of politics! These scenes of grandeur
and glory soon dissolved from my view like a dream. I "saved the country" for only two short
years. My competitor proved a lively corpse. He burst forth from the tomb like a locust from
its shell, and came buzzing to the national capital with "war on his wings." I went buzzing
back to the mountains to dream again under the sycamores; and there a new ambition was kindled
in my soul. A new vision opened before me. I saw another capitol rise on the bank of the Cumberland,
overshadowing the tomb of Polk and close by the Hermitage where reposes the sacred dust of
Andrew Jackson. And I thought if I could only reach the exalted position of Governor of the
old "Volunteer State" I would then have gained the sum of life's honors and happiness. But
lo! another son of my father and mother was dreaming there under the same old sycamore. We
had dreamed together in the same trundle-bed and often kicked each other out. Together we had
seen visions of pumpkin pie and pulled hair for the biggest slice. How Wiseli's way was found.

Johanna Spyri, Chapter 1.

(On the carriageway).

Outside the city of Bern there is a small village on the slope of a mountain. I cannot say here
what it is called, but I will describe it a little. Anyone who goes there will then be able to recognize
it at once. On the top of the hill there is a single house with its
own garden full of all kinds of lovely flowers.

It belongs to the chief knight and is called "on the slope". From this point there is a path
downhill. Then there is a small square on which is located the church, and next to the church, the
rectory.

In this rectory the wife of the chief knight had grown up, spending a happy childhood as daughter
of the minister.

A little further downhill there is the schoolhouse, and a few houses, and then on the left there is one more
house standing all on its own. In front of this house there is a small garden with a few roses and a few carnations,
some mignonette and then to the side there are beds of chicory and spinach, surrounded by a low
hedge of blackcurrant bushes. Everything is neat and tidy, with no visible signs of weeds.
The path leads on downhill all the way to the bottom until it reaches
the main street which runs alongside the Aare river and out into the
country. This long slope was, in wintertime, the most glorious sledge track
that could be found for miles around. You could sit on a sledge for
ten minutes without having to get out. So it was that if you managed
to get up to speed just outside the house of the chief knight then
your sledge could run unaided all the way down to Aare Street at the
bottom. For in their extravagant conceptions lie the germs of human government,
and invention, and discovery; and from their mysterious vagaries spring the motive power of
the world's progress. Our civilization is the evolution of dreams. The rude tribes of primeval
men dwelt in caves until some unwashed savage dreamed that damp caverns and unholy smells were
not in accord with the principles of hygiene. It dawned upon his mighty intellect that one
flat stone would lie on top of another, and that a little mud, aided by Sir Isaac Newton's
law of gravitation, would hold them together, and that walls could be built in the form of
a quadrangle. Here was the birth of architecture. And thus, from the magical dreams of this
unmausoleumed barbarian was evolved the home, the best and sweetest evolution of man's civilisation.

John Howard Payne touched the tenderest chord that vibrates in the great heart of all humankind
when he gave to immortality his song of "Home, Sweet Home;" and thank God, the grand mansions
and palaces of the rich do not hold all the happiness and nobility of this world. Jakob scraping out late formations from the deck, a Grammar,
mythology, the ancient pieces law, Wilhelm makes certain old top pick literary composers its humiliating
and management offered composes thoughtfully looking and found the patient assembling the story
of the brave adventure, the item through their particular endorsements and Development of outside
and inside lighting. The sum total of these works and works go but from the profound bottom of the
home feeling, apparent from the solid feeling that for the folks nothing more engaging and give more
valuable than what even now living in the home claimed and waiting custom have put. Text With
a Spin: Moving as well as so dire science Action is on the Brothers Grimm a squirt's interpretation
of their connection to the country. Thus, when William, in view of the home of his son in Italy,
in the statements breaks out: "I would be able to not exist on the length in a different put, so
I'm joined to my blue grass," or if Jacob himself as a substitute for lauding the brilliance of
the South and the blossoming fruit tree Finches on it.

The small one is feeling fantastic a delineation Jakob Grimm. He and his sibling have the endowment
of Poets eye, every last trace of the things that they might still be so utilized, and no longer
available, constantly to the first time and sees a flash of distinguishment of the miracle and drops
it. Jacob Grimm once declared: "All that regarded the man is radiant, dialect, expressions and Loud.
" This view takes in a wide group with his German punctuation so positively varies from all that
has been rung to that punctuation, that the sum total of us makes grammarians. It makes a point
not to educate, they make a point not to class bosses, it indicates unequivocally how things
are. Grimm frequently goes out of automatic youthful impressions, which are now investigatively develop
come to be, as the arousing joys of the sound triad # a # i # # u, who with his Vocal singing
the entire German dialect invades. When we express, tying tape, tied it is a specific case that we
contact in the German dialect at each turn. Each kid, each kid who visits a rudimentary school
knows today, that a verb, which modified with this sound Jewelry and melodiousness, is a solid verb is,
while the frail verb absences the proposed trimmings. Around the time when Grimm was all wrong
the feeble verb consistently, but the robust, but spurned the external member and the special times
created by a moving internal head independent from anyone else, unpredictable. Jacob Grimm here
the schoolmasters aufgezündet a light in which they saw and comprehended what they had beforehand
met just. Much else has been so dry in this Grimm Letters being found. More influential, he pressed
advance in his syntax, constantly, as in all his academic works, advanced by a unyielding feeling
for home. His folks he desired to distinguish in his dialect. He demonstrated how the German
dialect, the fantastic differentiation amidst the sexes, splits the folks and ties to the rest of
creation by an exceptional Imagination unfolds limit, he poured the
entire German dialect to the plans and presentation ethical headings
of the German spirit, as though to a Vorelemente German national psychology
and morals herbeizufördern. I think some Liebig will reduce foods to their last analyses, and by an ultimate
concentration of their elements, will enable the man of the future to carry a year's provisions
in his vest pocket. The sucking dude will store his rations in the head of his cane, and the
commissary department of a whole army will consist of a mule and a pair of saddlebags. A train
load of cabbage will be transported in a sardine box, and a thousand fat Texas cattle in an
oyster can. Power will be condensed from a forty horse engine to a quart cup. Wagons will roll
by the power in their axles, and the cushions of our buggies will cover the force that propels
them. The armies of the future will fight with chain lightning, and the battlefield will become
so hot and unhealthy that,

  "He who fights and runs away
   Will never fight another day."

Some dreaming Icarus will perfect the flying machine, and upon the aluminium wings of the swift
Pegassus of the air the light-hearted society girl will sail among the stars, and

  "Behind some dark cloud, where no one's allowed,
   Make love to the man in the moon."

The rainbow will be converted into a Ferris wheel; all men will be bald headed; the women will
run the Government--and then I think the end of time will be near at hand.

DREAMS.

I heard a song of love, and tenderness, and sadness, and beauty, sweeter than the song of a
nightingale. It was breathed from the soul of Robert Burns. I heard a song of deepest passion
surging like the tempest-tossed waves of the sea. It was the restless spirit of Lord Byron.

I heard a mournful melody of despairing love, full of that wild, mad, hopeless longing of a
bereaved soul which the mid-night raven mocked at with that bitterest of all words--"Nevermore!"
It was the weird threnody of the brilliant, but ill-starred Poe, who, like a meteor, blazed
but for a moment, dazzling a hemisphere, and then went out forever in the darkness of death.

Then I was exalted, and lifted into the serene sunlight of peace, as I listened to the spirit
of faith, pouring out in the songs of our own immortal Longfellow.

With Milton I walked the scented isles of long lost Paradise, and caught the odor of its bloom,
and the swell of its music. Because the bottom of the mountain was always
so quick to and the ascent was thought so eagerly to the next album Take that one quickly above
was.

So broke always in great terror of the night was the children far too early, because this was the
time when almost all had to go home. Since then usually followed a fairly even tumultuous end,
as soon as they wanted to go again and again and then only a single time and so everything had to
still go in great haste, the sitting up and depart and the return of the hill. There was also
a law established been, that no one should go down, while the other went up, but after the other should
all leave each other and all go back, so not crowded, and Schlitt Enver windings could arise. Sometimes, however,
there were all sorts of illegal confusion, especially to that penetrated the full circuit trips
since then and about to be modified any more to come shortly wanted.

So it was on a bright January evening, as from cold, the carriage track loud crackling was
under the feet of children and the frozen snow on the fields next door so hard that one would
have to be allowed to drive as on a solid road. But the children were all glowing red hot
and this, precisely because they were run up in strenuous running the whole mountain and her carriage
had followed suit. And now the carriage was turned over quickly, the children seized on it as it
was in a hurry. Over There was already light of the moon in the sky, and the prayer bell had
rung already.

All honor to the poets and philosophers and painters and sculptors and musicians of the world!
They are its honeybees; its songbirds; its carrier doves, its ministering angels.

VISIONS OF DEPARTED GLORY.

I walked with Gibbon and Hume, through the sombre halls of the past, and caught visions of
the glory of the classic Republics and Empires that flourished long ago, and whose very dust
is still eloquent with the story of departed greatness. The spirit of genius lingers there
still like the fragrance of roses faded and gone.

I thought I heard the harp of Pindar, and the impassioned song of the dark-eyed Sappho. I thought
I heard the lofty epic of the blind Homer, rushing on in the red tide of battle, and the divine
Plato discoursing like an oracle in his academic shades.

The canvas spoke and the marble breathed when Apelles painted and Phidias carved. "Well Helfet
my child complain she calls Mary at the grave of the Saviour, "You know, yes, how sweet they
are! "(namely the children.) This weighs only word the whole passion play of the Augsburg Meistersingers
Sebastian Wild on, from which emerged the earlier version of the Oberammergau book. This softens the Mother
of God, probably under the influence of the Reformation, striking back and the whole thing is
a craft even work that takes away blindly at the end rhyme.

I believe that Mozart, and Mendelssohn, and Schubert, and Verdi, and all the great masters,
caught their sweetest dreams from nature's musicians. I think their richest airs of mirth,
and gladness, and joy, were stolen from the purling rivulet and the rippling river. I believe
their grandest inspirations were born of the tempest, and the thunder, and the rolling billows
of the angry ocean.

NATURE'S MUSICIANS. The stage is divided into three
locations: the average size room with a view of Jerusalem on the left, and on the right a narrower
street flanked by the towering houses of the Roman governor and the High Priest. Already the right
lane is filled with all sorts of people, shouting as they run through the middle room and through
the lane on the left, while the Saviour rides on a donkey amid shouts of Hosanna, opens out
to the spacious proscenium. The elevator provides the most convincing image of a great popular movement, which,
by this ingenious stage device, now urges quick expansion until it pours into their full width.
Through all too frequent interruptions by live pictures from the Old Testament, which should
set the example for Christianity, the plot moves forward, only slowly. Once you get the tempo
and motion, a second look shows the natural scenery for the audience to consider in greater detail.
Thousands of spectators, over whose heads you look sitting here more or less under open sky,
look all happy and excited, but are also subject to physical needs. Not even silent before the
visage of the Most High and Holy, to quote Homer, "the tiresome tyranny of the stomach." Powerful
light is shed on the bred debris, slender Butterbemmchen disappear next to countless Knack sausages
and blooms of bacon. You hear the popping and gurgling of emptying bottles. In between sobs
and moans and the prosaic aftermath of weeping - a vacuum. You would be wrong if you thought any
of these things disturb the mood of the viewer. The size and humanity has a cleansing effect just
as the sea never appears dirty. Then there is the presence of the wild, every petty thought from the
essence of your soul. I see the sky above me with its eternal light, a passing cloud discharges
lightning and thunder, and then we flash by the slopes towards the meadows, and further up, the
waving green forest. Here stroll cheerful prostitutes, a farmer is right there in the hay together,
and you can her the roosters crowing and the cooing of the pigeons. And here, between the auditorium
and stage, flying swallows and sparrows cry. Nature cannot be bothered by the opinions of the people
and events: while the nails are driven through the hand of the Saviour, two butterflies seek to catch
each other. One might then think, probably smiling, at the words of the apostle Paul: "We know that
creation longingly works together for this time" - interpreted by some that the rest of nature is
involved with the people in the redemptive work. But nature is an ancient pagan and will
remain a heathen, the need for salvation beginning only with man. It is now a wonderful phenomenon,
and just in closing thoughts, going to Oberammergau, like Christianity, arising from the highest spiritual
sources of antiquity to flow down to the common man, can yet fill the poor and miserable windbag
with blessing. Heraclitus all over, the separation of body and soul, the Platonic doctrine of the Father
and Son, from the ubiquitous idea of Jewish-Greek philosophy interchanging, the universalistic
tendency of the Roman spirit - all this dialectical understanding and emotional process had to go before
the church could bake her bread and giver her wine, before the doctrine of salvation could find its
way into the soul and mouth of a German farmer.

He burst into the sitting-room, covered with meal and panting like a bellowsed horse, frightening
my grandmother almost into hysterics. The old lady screamed and shouted: "What in the world
is the matter, Adam?" Adam replied: "That there durned Bert Lynch is down yander a-tryin' to
raise a fuss with me."

But every dog has his day. Brother Billy Patterson preached from the door of the mill on the
following Sunday. It was his first sermon in that "neck of the woods," and he began his ministrations
with a powerful discourse, hurling his anathemas against Satan and sin and every kind of wickedness.
He denounced whiskey. He branded the bully as a brute and a moral coward, and personated Bert,
having witnessed his battle with Adam. This was too much for the champion. He resolved to "thrash"
Brother Patterson, and in a few days they met at the mill. Bert squared himself and said: "Parson,
you had your turn last Sunday; it's mine to-day. Pull off that broadcloth an' take your medicine.
I'm a-gwine to suck the marrow out'n them ole bones o' yourn." The pious preacher plead for
peace, but without avail. At last he said: "Then, if nothing but a fight will satisfy you,
will you allow me to kneel down and say my prayer before we fight?" "O yes, that's all right
parson," said Bert. "But cut yer prayer short, for I'm a-gwine to give you a good sound thrashin'."

The preacher knelt and thus began to pray: "Oh Lord, Thou knowest that when I killed Bill Cummings,
and John Brown, and Jerry Smith, and Levi Bottles, that I did it in self defense. Thou knowest,
Oh Lord, that when I cut the heart out of young Sliger, and strewed the ground with the brains
of Paddy Miles, that it was forced upon me, and that I did it in great agony of soul. And now,
Oh Lord, I am about to be forced to put in his coffin, this poor miserable wretch, who has
attacked me here to-day. Oh Lord, have mercy upon his soul and take care of his helpless widow
and orphans when he is gone!"

And he arose whetting his knife on his shoe-sole, singing:

  "Hark, from the tomb a doleful sound,
   Mine ears attend the cry."

But when he looked around, Bert was gone. There was nothing in sight but a little cloud of
dust far up the road, following in the wake of the vanishing champion.

BROTHER ESTEP AND THE TRUMPET.

