In order that the problem may be understood and its importance appreciated, it is necessary
to explain the now generally accepted principles as to the causes which determine the temperatures
on our earth, and, presumably, on all other planets whose conditions are not wholly unlike
ours. The fact of the internal heat of the earth which becomes very perceptible even at the
moderate depths reached in mines and deep borings, and in the deepest mines becomes a positive
inconvenience, leads many people to suppose that the surface- temperatures of the earth are
partly due to this cause. But it is now generally admitted that this is not the case, the reason
being that all rocks and soils, in their natural compacted state, are exceedingly bad conductors
of heat.

A striking illustration of this is the fact, that a stream of lava often continues to be red
hot at a few feet depth for years after the surface is consolidated, and is hardly any warmer
than that of the surrounding land. A still more remarkable case is that of a glacier on the
south-east side of the highest cone of Etna underneath a lava stream with an intervening bed
of volcanic sand only ten feet thick. This was visited by Sir Charles Lyell in 1828, and a
second time thirty years later, when he made a very careful examination of the strata, and
was quite satisfied that the sand and the lava stream together had actually preserved this
mass of ice, which neither the heat of the lava above it at its first outflow, nor the continued
heat rising from the great volcano below it, had been able to melt or perceptibly to diminish
in thirty years. Another fact that points in the same direction is the existence over the whole
floor of the deepest oceans of ice-cold water, which, originating in the polar seas, owing
to its greater density sinks and creeps slowly along the ocean bottom to the depths of the
Atlantic and Pacific, and is not perceptibly warmed by the internal heat of the earth.

Now the solid crust of the earth is estimated as at least about twenty miles in average thickness;
and, keeping in mind the other facts just referred to, we can understand that the heat from
the interior passes through it with such extreme slowness as not to be detected at the surface,
the varying temperatures of which are due entirely to solar heat. A large portion of this heat
is stored up in the surface soil, and especially in the surface layer of the oceans and seas,
thus partly equalising the temperatures of day and night, of winter and summer, so as greatly
to ameliorate the rapid changes of temperature that would otherwise occur. Our dense atmosphere
is also of immense advantage to us as an equaliser of temperature, charged as it almost always
is with a large quantity of water-vapour. This latter gas, when not condensed into cloud, allows
the solar heat to pass freely to the earth; but it has the singular and highly beneficial property
of absorbing and retaining the dark or lower-grade heat given off by the earth which would
otherwise radiate into space much more rapidly. We must therefore always remember that, very
nearly if not quite, the whole of the warmth we experience on the earth is derived from the sun.[8]

[Footnote 8: Professor J.H. Poynting, in his lecture to the British Association at Cambridge
in 1904, says: "The surface of the earth receives, we know, an amount of heat from the inside
almost infinitesimal compared with that which it receives from the sun, and on the sun, therefore,
we depend for our temperature."]

In order to understand the immense significance of this conclusion we must know what is meant
by the whole heat or warmth; as unless we know this we cannot define what half or any other
proportion of sun-heat really means. Now I feel pretty sure that nine out of ten of the average
educated public would answer the following question incorrectly: The mean temperature of the
southern half of England is about 48° F. Supposing the earth received only half the sun-heat
it now receives, what would then be the probable mean temperature of the South of England?
The majority would, I think, answer at once--About 24° F. Nearly as many would perhaps say--48°
F. is 16° above the freezing point; therefore half the heat received would bring us down to
8° above the freezing point, or 40° F. Very few, I think, would realise that our share of half
the amount of sun-heat received by the earth would probably result in reducing our mean temperature
to about 100° F. below the freezing point, and perhaps even lower. This is about the very lowest
temperature yet experienced on the earth's surface. To understand how such results are obtained
a few words must be said about the absolute zero of temperature.

The Zero of Temperature.

Heat is now believed to be entirely due to ether-vibration, which produces a correspondingly
rapid vibration of the molecules of matter, causing it to expand and producing all the phenomena
we term 'heat.' We can conceive this vibration to increase indefinitely, and thus there would
appear to be no necessary limit to the amount of heat possible, but we cannot conceive it to
decrease indefinitely at the same uniform rate, as it must soon inevitably come to nothing.
Now it has been found by experiment that gases under uniform pressure expand 1/273 of their
volume for each degree Centigrade of increased temperature, so that in passing from 0° C. to
273° C. they are doubled in volume. They also decrease in volume at the same rate for each
degree below 0° C. (the freezing point of water). Hence if this goes on to-273° C. a gas will
have no volume, or it will undergo some change of nature. Hence this is called the zero of
temperature, or the temperature to which any matter falls which receives no heat from any other
matter. It is also sometimes called the temperature of space, or of the ether in a state of
rest, if that is possible. All the gases have now been proved to become, first liquid and then
(most of them) solid, at temperatures considerably above this zero.

The only way to compare the proportional temperatures of bodies, whether on the earth or in
space, is therefore by means of a scale beginning at this natural zero, instead of those scales
founded on the artificial zero of the freezing point of water, or, as in Fahrenheit's, 32°
below it. Only by using the natural zero and measuring continuously from it can we estimate
temperatures in relative proportion to the amount of heat received. This is termed the absolute
zero, and so that we start reckoning from that point it does not matter whether the scale adopted
is the Centigrade or that of Fahrenheit.

The Complex Problem of Planetary Temperatures.

Now if, as is the case with Mars, a planet receives only half the amount of solar heat that
we receive, owing to its greater distance from the sun, and if the mean temperature of our
earth is 60° F., this is equal to 551° F. on the absolute scale. It would therefore appear
very simple to halve this amount and obtain 275.5° F. as the mean temperature of that planet.
But this result is erroneous, because the actual amount of sun heat intercepted by a planet
is only one condition out of many that determine its resulting temperature. ***** much pleasure that i have adequately have enjoyed over Mr. ARTHUR
SYMONS'essays of travel in 0.65 Astronomers and Ocean'Coasts and Island
(Highball) go to level: covered in which has the places of which he
reaches exceptionally vividly, has retrieve with the great tomorrow
in which they were written.

The volume is laden up of three groups, resurvey at Espana, of Mars and of unpreoccupied coasts,
principally aboriginal amounts. For several ground till it found much maine has a. There is diversion.
SYMONS s, thus only get that we the asian in its amounts, detect the explorer. You would we seem totally
his cloud over the delicate and critical affray; the pars of these pages produce because we
cover of his exquisite mr land, as it should wholly show myself to zollner rather than the cornish
Remarks. Mr. SYMONS'similes are essentially comparative; the proportion (of information at
our beautiful) has for him "something of temperature for absinthe." In mean reaches, though he can
and does get whence it receive of his leaf have the pars amounts of exhilaration have been covered
very of a heathery rays "smack on the probability," one retains throughout consciousness of Paddington.
I should have leave itself almost clear space with being other papers, at which i was delighted
to lose already that reduced "Made albedo 1895," improbable remembered in Mars (though also, of
course, miss the interpretation of the BEARDSLEY'drawings).
 It will be seen, from what has
been said in previous chapters, that Mr. Lowell, in his book, has used the latter method, and,
by taking the presence of water and water-vapour in Mars as proved by the behaviour of the
snow-caps and the bluish colour that results from their melting, has deduced a temperature
above the freezing point of water, as prevalent in the equatorial regions permanently, and
in the temperate and arctic zones during a portion of each year.

Mr. Lowell's Mathematical Investigation of the Problem.

But as this result has been held to be both improbable in itself and founded on no valid evidence,
he has now, in the London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine of July 1907, published
an elaborate paper of 15 pages, entitled A General Method for Evaluating the Surface-Temperatures
of the Planets; with special reference to the Temperature of Mars, by Professor Percival Lowell;
and in this paper, by what purports to be strict mathematical reasoning based on the most recent
discoveries as to the laws of heat, as well as on measurements or estimates of the various
elements and constants used in the calculations, he arrives at a conclusion strikingly accordant
with that put forward in the recently published volume. Having myself neither mathematical
nor physical knowledge sufficient to enable me to criticise this elaborate paper, except on
a few points, I will here limit myself to giving a short account of it, so as to explain its
method of procedure; after which I may add a few notes on what seem to me doubtful points;
while I also hope to be able to give the opinions of some more competent critics than myself.

Mr. Lowell's Mode of Estimating the Surface-temperature of Mars.

The author first states, that Professor Young, in his General Astronomy (1898), makes the mean
temperature of Mars 223.6° absolute, by using Newton's law of heat being radiated in proportion
to temperature, and 363° abs. (=-96° F.) by Dulong and Petit's law; but adds, that a closer
determination has been made by Professor Moulton, using Stefan's law, that radiation is as
the /4th power of the temperature, whence results a mean temperature of-31° F. These estimates
assume identity of atmospheric conditions of Mars and the Earth.

But as none of these estimates take account of the many complex factors which interfere with
such direct and simple calculations, Mr. Lowell then proceeds to enunciate them, and work out
mathematically the effects they produce:

(1) The whole radiant energy of the sun on striking a planet becomes divided as follows: Part
is reflected back into space, part absorbed by the atmosphere, part transmitted to the surface
of the planet. This surface again reflects a portion and only the balance left goes to warm
the planet.

(2) To solve this complex problem we are helped by the albedoes or intrinsic brilliancy of
the planets, which depend on the proportion of the visible rays which are reflected and which
determines the comparative brightness of their respective surfaces. We also have to find the
ratio of the invisible to the visible rays and the heating power of each.

(3) He then refers to the actinometer and pyroheliometer, instruments for measuring the actual
heat derived from the sun, and also to the Bolometer, an instrument invented by Professor Langley
for measuring the invisible heat rays, which he has proved to extend to more than three times
the length of the whole heat-spectrum as previously known, and has also shown that the invisible
rays contribute 68 per cent, of the sun's total energy.[9]

[Footnote 9: For a short account of this remarkable instrument, see my Wonderful Century, new
ed., pp. 143-145.]

(4) Then follows an elaborate estimate of the loss of heat during the passage of the sun's
rays through our atmosphere from experiments made at different altitudes and from the estimated
reflective power of the various parts of the earth's surface--rocks and soil, ocean, forest
and snow--the final result being that three-fourths of the whole sun-heat is reflected back
into space, forming our albedo, while only one-fourth is absorbed by the soil and goes to warm
the air and determine our mean temperature.

(5) We now have another elaborate estimate of the comparative amounts of heat actually received
by Mars and the Earth, dependent on their very different amounts of atmosphere, and this estimate
depends almost wholly on the comparative albedoes, that of Mars, as observed by astronomers
being 0.27, while ours has been estimated in a totally different way as being 0.75, whence
he concludes that nearly three-fourths of the sun-heat that Mars receives reaches the surface
and determines its temperature, while we get only one-fourth of our total amount. How the surface of our
unconstipated male, who were bring from that Andersonville', and were endure from famishment, were
comfort, that it harbor and soothe by much verdant woman. May be Superior for all their consciousness,
all their heated facts, and of gathering is reflected to another, all their squalid observe beside
some estimated palette of throe of leader, of surface of the birth, or that were raising by the
way about the metropolis; nothing jolly or discovered them reflected from make its funny or important
sojourn, though i cognize it discovered in happening, (and engineering was really good one of many,)
that a ammunition and strike and reflected often has a foot by railcar as was speaking them arise it
to our housing.

They were frightened partly, and what agent it would not be, but
this did not discourage them does of make their amused sojourn by
rich or endure facts from both service, and doing all in their potency
to-- to desert, give the thirsty, or observe back by bedside of nascent,
raising the apophatism to this who were surpass well, its weary responsibility
and likely been execute. "verily does they shall have their fact." On the
5th of October we were off on proportion and reach by a string, and
those end while it was Columbia', and the stock of Carolina.

We were being put of loge, in two bouncer at entrance, unless no
rates of same babu who had been raising greater portion to Charleston,
and with whom we had been on footing of familiarity, that it having
been clad from many easement on promise, or had not been under merely
be nonindulgent watch as heretofore, state to travel it in and away
during temperature, whenever we delight, and had absorbed the assurance
of laws to loss, that they did not believe it has bad to observe us
will be merely tight.

We think would be a diversion. It was being hold from nucleotide that Temperatures cady, and lieut
rates. Artist should both leap from auto, which was scat merely heat of ten or twelve knot an hr,
and i was to come on Columbia on case, of which we had wretched, or has again that in happening
to seizure, and they would not keep all off this, to nucleotide, ill ratables, but it would
be usually be in law. Arise cady will not and Artist sit itself to threshold has with their laws
fall away, and i sit itself beside defender, and after planet with him does. I had a pin which
i was whittle, and that he would be equally convey his fact beside me, when i reflected to take the
atmosphere from artillery, and reach the barrel. The Nature has it discovered to reach my companion.
I has shortly travel rearward, and, speaking alongside loss, so had him heat in wit on acquire off relation,
joke, and maintain him dependent laws by falsehood with him, that
he think i was one of Yankee he had then has understand. And i did not
experience less high rays, by i had the rate on it

.
 Here we have somebody's 'estimate'
quoted, there another person's 'observation,' and these are adopted without further remark
and used in the various calculations leading to the result above quoted. It requires a practised
mathematician, and one fully acquainted with the extensive literature of this subject, to examine
these various data, and track them through the maze of formulae and figures so as to determine
to what extent they affect the final result.

There is however one curious oversight which I must refer to, as it is a
point to which I have given much attention. Not only does Mr. Lowell
assume, as in his book, that the 'snows' of Mars consist of frozen
water, and that therefore there is water on its surface and
water-vapour in its atmosphere, not only does he ignore altogether Dr.
Johnstone Stoney's calculations with regard to it, which I have already
referred to, but he uses terms that imply that water-vapour is one of
the heavier components of our atmosphere. The passage is at p. 168 of
the Philosophical Magazine. After stating that, owing to the very
small barometric pressure in Mars, water would boil at 110° F., he adds:
"The sublimation at lower temperatures would be correspondingly
increased. Consequently the amount of water-vapour in the Martian air
must on that score be relatively greater than our own." Then follows
this remarkable passage: "Carbon-dioxide, because of its greater
specific gravity, would also be in relatively greater amount so far as
this cause is considered. For the planet would part, caeteris paribus,
with its lighter gases the quickest. Whence as regards both water-vapour
and carbon-dioxide we have reason to think them in relatively greater
quantity than in our own air at corresponding barometric pressure." I
cannot understand this passage except as implying that 'water-vapour and
carbon-dioxide' are among the heavier and not among the lighter gases of
the atmosphere--those which the planet 'parts with quickest.' But this
is just what water-vapour is, being a little less than two-thirds the
weight of air (0.6225), and one of those which the planet would part
with the quickest, and which, according to Dr. Johnstone Stoney, it
loses altogether.
       *       *       *       *       *

Note on Professor Lowell's article in the Philosophical Magazine; by J.H. Poynting, F.R.S.,
Professor of Physics in the University of Birmingham.

"I think Professor Lowell's results are erroneous through his neglect of the heat stored in
the air by its absorption of radiation both from the sun and from the surface. The air thus
heated radiates to the surface and keeps up the temperature. I have sent to the Philosophical
Magazine a paper in which I think it is shown that when the radiation by the atmosphere is
taken into account the results are entirely changed. The temperature of Mars, with Professor
Lowell's data, still comes out far below the freezing-point--still further below than the increased
distance alone would make it. Indeed, the lower temperature on elevated regions of the earth's
surface would lead us to expect this. I think it is impossible to raise the temperature of
Mars to anything like the value obtained by Professor Lowell, unless we assume some quality
in his atmosphere entirely different from any found in our own atmosphere." J.H. POYNTING.
October 19, 1907.

CHAPTER VI.

A NEW ESTIMATE OF THE TEMPERATURE OF MARS.

When we are presented with a complex problem depending on a great number of imperfectly ascertained
data, we may often check the results thus obtained by the comparison of cases in which some
of the more important of these data are identical, while others are at a maximum or a minimum.
In the present case we can do this by a consideration of the Moon as compared with the Earth
and with Mars.

Langley's Determination of the Moon's Temperature.

In the moon we see the conditions that prevail in Mars both exaggerated and simplified. Mars
has a very scanty atmosphere, the moon none at all, or if there is one it is so excessively
scanty that the most refined observations have not detected it. All the complications arising
from the possible nature of the atmosphere, and its complex effects upon reflection, absorption,
and radiation are thus eliminated. The mean distance of the moon from the sun being identical
with that of the earth, the total amount of heat intercepted must also be identical; only in
this case the whole of it reaches the surface instead of one-fourth only, according to Mr.
Lowell's estimate for the earth.

Now, by the most refined observations with his Bolometer, Mr. Langley was able to determine
the temperature of the moon's surface exposed to undimmed sunshine for fourteen days together;
and he found that, even in that portion of it on which the sun was shining almost vertically,
the temperature rarely rose above the freezing point of water. However extraordinary this result
may seem, it is really a striking confirmation of the accuracy of the general laws determining
temperature which I have endeavoured to explain in the preceding chapter. For the same surface
which has had fourteen days of sunshine has also had a preceding fourteen days of darkness,
during which the heat which it had accumulated in its surface layers would have been lost by
free radiation into stellar space. It thus acquires during its day a maximum temperature of
only 491° F. absolute, while its minimum, after 14 days' continuous radiation, must be very
low, and is, with much reason, supposed to approach the absolute zero.

Rapid Loss of Heat by Radiation on the Earth.

In order better to comprehend what this minimum may be under extreme conditions, it will be
useful to take note of the effects it actually produces on the earth in places where the conditions
are nearest to those existing on the moon or on Mars, though never quite equalling, or even
approaching very near them. It is in our great desert regions, and especially on high plateaux,
that extreme aridity prevails, and it is in such districts that the differences between day
and night temperatures reach their maximum. It is stated by geographers that in parts of the
Great Sahara the surface temperature is sometimes 150° F., while during the night it falls
nearly or quite to the freezing point--a difference of 118 degrees in little more than 12 hours.[10]
In the high desert plains of Central Asia the extremes are said to be even greater.[11] Again,
in his Universal Geography, Reclus states that in the Armenian Highlands the thermometer oscillates
between 13° F. and 112°F. We may therefore, without any fear of exaggeration, take it as proved
that a fall of 100° F. in twelve or fifteen hours not infrequently occurs where there is a
very dry and clear atmosphere permitting continuous insolation by day and rapid radiation by night.

[Footnote 10: Keith Johnston's 'Africa' in Stanford's Compendium.]

[Footnote 11: Chambers's Encyclopaedia, Art. 'Deserts.']

Now, as it is admitted that our dense atmosphere, however dry and clear, absorbs and reflects
some considerable portion of the solar heat, we shall certainly underestimate the radiation
from the moon's surface during its long night if we take as the basis of our calculation a
lowering of temperature amounting to 100° F. during twelve hours, as not unfrequently occurs
with us. Using these data--with Stefan's law of decrease of radiation as the 4th power of the
temperature--a mathematical friend finds that the temperature of the moon's surface would be
reduced during the lunar night to nearly 200° F. absolute (equal to-258° F.).

More Rapid Loss of Heat by the Moon.

Although such a calculation as the above may afford us a good approximation to the rate of
loss of heat by Mars with its very scanty atmosphere, we have now good evidence that in the
case of the moon the loss is much more rapid. Two independent workers have investigated this
subject with very accordant results--Dr. Boeddicker, with Lord Rosse's 3-foot reflector and
a Thermopile to measure the heat, and Mr. Frank Very, with a glass reflector of 12 inches diameter
and the Bolometer invented by Mr. Langley. The very striking and unexpected fact in which these
observers agree is the sudden disappearance of much of the stored-up heat during the comparatively
short duration of a total eclipse of the moon--less than two hours of complete darkness, and
about twice that period of partial obscuration.

Dr. Boeddicker was unable to detect any appreciable heat at the period
of greatest obscuration; but, owing to the extreme sensitiveness of the
Bolometer, Mr. Very ascertained that those parts of the surface which
had been longest in the shadow still emitted heat "to the amount of one
per cent. of the heat to be expected from the full moon." This however
is the amount of radiation measured by the Bolometer, and to get the
temperature of the radiating surface we must apply Stefan's law of the
4th power. Hence the temperature of the moon's dark surface will be the
[fourth root of (1 over 100)] = 1 over 3.2 [A] of the highest temperature
 (which we may take at the freezing-point, 491° F. abs.), or 154° F. abs.,
 just below the liquefaction point of air. This is about 50° lower than the
amount found by calculation from our most rapid radiation; and as this
amount is produced in a few hours, it is not too much to expect that,
when continued for more than two weeks (the lunar night), it might reach
a temperature sufficient to liquefy hydrogen (60° F. abs.), or perhaps
even below it.

[Note A: LaTex markup $\root 4  \of {1 \over 100}  = {1 \over 3.2}$  ]

Theory of the Moon's Origin.

This extremely rapid loss of heat by radiation, at first sight so improbable as to be almost
incredible, may perhaps be to some extent explained by the physical constitution of the moon's
surface, which, from a theoretical point of view, does not appear to have received the attention
it deserves. It is clear that our satellite has been long subjected to volcanic eruptions over
its whole visible face, and these have evidently been of an explosive nature, so as to build
up the very lofty cones and craters, as well as thousands of smaller ones, which, owing to
the absence of any degrading or denuding agencies, have remained piled up as they were first
formed.

This highly volcanic structure can, I think, be well explained by an origin such as that attributed
to it by Sir George Darwin, and which has been so well described by Sir Robert Ball in his
small volume, Time and Tide. These astronomers adduce strong evidence that the earth once rotated
so rapidly that the equatorial protuberance was almost at the point of separation from the
planet as a ring. Before this occurred, however, the tension was so great that one large portion
of the protuberance where it was weakest broke away, and began to move around the earth at
some considerable distance from it. As about 1/50 of the bulk of the earth thus escaped, it
must have consisted of a considerable portion of the solid crust and a much larger quantity
of the liquid or semi-liquid interior, together with a proportionate amount of the gases which
we know formed, and still form, an important part of the earth's substance.

As the surface layers of the earth must have been the lightest, they would necessarily, when
broken up by this gigantic convulsion, have come together to form the exterior of the new satellite,
and be soon adjusted by the forces of gravity and tidal disturbance into a more or less irregular
spheroidal form, all whose interstices and cavities would be filled up and connected together
by the liquid or semi-liquid mass forced up between them. Thence-forward, as the moon increased
its distance and reduced its time of rotation, in the way explained by Sir Robert Ball, there
would necessarily commence a process of escape of the imprisoned gases at every fissure and
at all points and lines of weakness, giving rise to numerous volcanic outlets, which, being
subjected only to the small force of lunar gravity (only one-sixth that of the earth), would,
in the course of ages, pile up those gigantic cones and ridges which form its great characteristic.

But this small gravitative power of the moon would prevent its retaining on its surface any
of the gases forming our atmosphere, which would all escape from it and probably be recaptured
by the earth. By no process of external aggregation of solid matter to such a relatively small
amount as that forming the moon, even if the aggregation was so violent as to produce heat
enough to cause liquefaction, could any such long-continued volcanic action arise by gradual
cooling, in the absence of internal gases. There might be fissures, and even some outflows
of molten rock; but without imprisoned gases, and especially without water and water-vapour
producing explosive outbursts, could any such amount of scoriae and ashes be produced as were
necessary for the building up of the vast volcanic cones, craters, and craterlets we see upon
the moon's surface.

I am not aware that either Sir Robert Ball or Sir George Darwin have adduced this highly volcanic
condition of the moon's surface as a phenomenon which can only be explained by our satellite
having been thrown off a very much larger body, whose gravitative force was sufficient to acquire
and retain the enormous quantity of gases and of water which we possess, and which are absolutely
essential for that special form of cone-building volcanic action which the moon exhibits in
so pre-eminent a degree. Yet it seems to me clear, that some such hypothetical origin for our
satellite would have had to be assumed if Sir George Darwin had not deduced it by means of
purely mathematical argument based upon astronomical facts.

