When one knows these things, one can see clearly that an evil can be removed only by successive
stages, and that the remission of an evil is not complete removal of it. But all this has been
said in summary form and unless the items are demonstrated may be assented to and yet not comprehended.
What is not comprehended is as indistinct as a wheel spun around by the hand. The points made
above are therefore to be demonstrated one by one in the order in which they were set forth.

[2] First: It is an error of the age to believe that evils are separated and in fact cast out
when they are remitted. It has been granted me to learn from heaven that no evil into which
man is born and which he has made actual in him is separated from him, but is removed so as
not to appear. Earlier I shared the belief of most persons in the world that when evils are
remitted they are cast out and are washed and wiped away as dirt is from the face by water.
It is not like this with evils or sins. They all remain. When they are remitted on repentance,
they are thrust from the center to the sides. What is in the center, being directly under view,
appears as in the light of day, and what is to one side is in shadow and at times in the darkness
of night. Inasmuch as evils are not separated but only removed, that is, thrust to one side,
and as man can go from The center to the periphery, he can return, as it may happen, to his
evils, which he supposed had been cast out. For the human being is such that he can go from
one affection to another and sometimes to the opposite, and thus from one center into another;
the affection in which he is at the time makes the center, for he is then in the enjoyment
and light of it.

[3] Some who are raised after death into heaven by the Lord, for they have lived well, have
carried with them, however, the belief that they are clean and rid of sins, therefore are not
in a state of guilt. In accord with their belief they are clothed at first in white garments,
for white garments signify a state purified from evils. But after a time they begin to think,
as they did in the world, that they are washed, as it were, from all evil, and to glory that
they are no longer sinners like other men. This can hardly be kept from being an elation of
mind and a contempt of others in comparison with oneself. In order, therefore, that they may
be delivered from their imaginary belief, they are sent down from heaven and let back into
the evils which they pursued in the world; they are also shown that they are in hereditary
evils of which they had not known. When they have been led in this way to realize that their
evils have not been separated from them but only put aside, thus that in themselves they are
impure, indeed nothing but evil, and that they are withheld from evils and held in goods by
the Lord, and that this only seems to be their doing, they are raised again into heaven by
the Lord.

[4] Second: It is an error of the age to believe that the state of man's life can be changed
in a moment, so that from wicked he can become good, and consequently can be led from hell
and transported at once to heaven, and this by the Lord's direct mercy. Those who separate
charity and faith and place salvation in faith alone, commit this error. For they suppose that
merely to think and speak formulas of that faith, if it is done with trust and confidence,
justifies and saves one. Many think it is done instantly, too, and if not previously, can be
done in the last hour of one's life. These are bound to believe that the state of man's life
can be changed in a moment and that he can be saved by direct mercy. But in the last chapter
of this treatise it will be seen that the Lord's mercy is mediated, that man cannot become
good in a moment from being wicked, and can be led from hell and transported to heaven only
by the continual activity of divine providence from infancy to the very close of life. Here
it need only be said that all the laws of divine providence have the salvation and reformation
of the human being for their object, in other words, the inversion of his state, which by nativity
is infernal, into the opposite, which is heavenly. This can only be done progressively as man
recedes from evil and its enjoyment and comes into good and its enjoyment.

[5] Third: Those who believe in an instantaneous change do not know at all what evil and good
are. For they do not know that evil is the enjoyment of the lust of acting and thinking contrary
to divine order, and good is the enjoyment of the affection for acting and thinking in accord
with divine order. They do not know, either, that myriads of lusts enter into and compose each
individual evil and myriads of affections enter into and compose each individual good, and
that these myriads are in such order and connection in man's interiors that it is impossible
to change one without changing all at the same time. Those who are ignorant of this may believe
or suppose that evil, which seems to them to be a single entity, can be easily removed, and
that good, which also seems to be a single entity, can be introduced in its place. Not knowing
what evil and good are, they cannot but suppose that there is such a thing as instantaneous
salvation and such a thing as direct mercy. That these are not possible will be seen in the
last chapter of this treatise.

[6] Fourth: Those who believe in instantaneous salvation and unmediated mercy do not know that
affections, which are of the will, are nothing other than changes of state in the purely organic
substances of the mind; that thoughts, which are of the understanding, are nothing other than
changes and variations in the form of those substances; and that memory is the persisting state
of the changes and variations. Everyone acknowledges, on its being said, that affections and
thoughts exist only in substances and their forms, which are the subjects; existing in the
brain which is full of substances and forms, they are called purely organic forms. No one who
thinks rationally can help laughing at the fancies of some that affections and thoughts do
not have substantive bases, but are exhalations given shape by heat and light, like images
apparently in the air or ether. For thought can no more exist apart from a substantial form
than sight can apart from its form, the eye, or hearing apart from its form, the ear, or taste
apart from its form, the tongue. If you examine the brain, you will see innumerable substances
and fibres, also, and see, too, that everything in it is organized. What more is needed than
this ocular proof?

[7] But one may ask, What are affection and thought then? A conclusion can be reached from
each and all things in the body. In it are many viscera, each fixed in its place, and all performing
their several functions by changes and variations of state and form. It is well known that
they are engaged in their own activities--the stomach, the intestines, the kidneys, the liver,
the pancreas, the spleen, the heart and the lungs, each in its particular activity. All the
activities are maintained from within, and to be actuated from within means that it is by changes
and variations of state and form. It may be plain then that the activities of the purely organic
substances of the mind are similar, the one difference being that those of the organic substances
of the body are natural, but of the mind are spiritual; plainly, also, the two make one by
correspondences.

[8] The nature of the changes and variations of state and form in the organic substances of
the mind, which are affections and thoughts, cannot be shown to the eye. It may, however, be
seen as in a mirror by the changes of state in the lungs on speaking and singing. There is
correspondence, moreover; for the sound of the voice in speaking and singing, and the articulations
of the sound which are the words of speech and the modulations of song, are produced by means
of the lungs; sound corresponds to affection, and speech to thought. Sound and speech are produced
also from affection and thought. This is done by changes and variations in the state and form
of the organic substances of the lungs, and from the lungs through the trachea or windpipe
in the larynx and glottis, and then in the tongue, and finally in the lips. The first changes
and variations in the state and form of the sound occur in the lungs, the second in trachea
and larynx, the third in the glottis by the different openings of its orifice, the fourth in
the tongue by its various positions against palate and teeth, and the fifth in the lips by
the various modifications of form in them. It may be evident, then, that these consecutive
changes and variations in the state of organic forms produce the sounds and their articulations
which are speech and song.

[9] Since affections and thoughts are simply changes of state in the forms of the mind, memory
is nothing other than the permanent state of those changes. For all changes and variations
of state in organic substances are such that once they are habitual they become permanent.
So the lungs are habituated to produce certain sounds in the trachea, to vary them in the glottis,
articulate them by the tongue, and modify them by the mouth; once these organic activities
have become habitual, they are settled in the organs and can be reproduced. "Come," she said, "it is wet." - And we went on through a dilapidated
fence around the side of the house lying vegetable garden and along the bottom of the water
after the Boskettpartien that lay before the house. Here were we on our old playground, it was
still the same bushes, between which we once gone astray were as children, only their branches
were still lower than it was in their way. We walked along the wide walkways next to the graft,
which is in the shade of the trees are wide and black dragged on our side. We heard the faint
plucking of the cattle, which on the other side the fen grazing in the moonlight, and over there
by the planting pipe sounded forth the chirping the tube sparrow, the little fellows watch
night. But soon I just listened to the noise the little feet that walked some distance in front
of me so easily.

In this secret sounds of the night suddenly invaded by the area of ​​the dike of her shrill
Reputation of a seabird, which then drove up through the air. As my ear was once awakened, so I
now heard from a distance the fire, the waves out there in the bright night, The Sheltering mysterious
deep rolled and tossed by the incoming tide the beach were. A feeling of desolation and loneliness
came over me, almost without knowing it, joined I Anne Lene's name
and stretched out both arms to her.

"Marx, what's the matter?" she cried, and turned to me.

"Here I am!"

"Nothing, Anne Lene," I said, "but give me your hand, I had forgotten the sea, because I suddenly
heard it! "

We stood in an open place in front of the old garden pavilion, with its doors open in the broken
fishing hung. The moon shone on Anne Lene's little hand, who believe quietly in the was. I had never seen
the moonlight on a Maedchenhand, and crept over me that Schauer, who from a desire for pleasure
and earth the painful feeling of transience is so wonderfully mixed. Involuntarily, I closed the
hand of the girl hard in the my, but with the fear that the youth
self, I looked at the same moment the ground.

But when Anne Lene her hand in silence in my left, I ventured at last, seeing up to her. She
had turned her face to me and gave me a sad, pitiful, I know more now not know whether to me or
to herself Then she withdrew from me gently and stood on the threshold the pavilion.

I looked through the gaps of the floor, the glint of the moon-lit water and passed Anne Lene dress
to hold her back. "Worry not, Marx," she said, adding she saw her and shook her slight figure
on the loose boards. "Wood and stone will not break me together. "- You went to the opposite window
and saw a while in the clear night addition, they lifted up his hand a piece of old wallpaper,
next to her on the wall hung down, and looked in the moonlight, the semi-extinct images. "It has
had its day" she said, "the beautiful Schaefer couples want to recommend. They may still gradually
be noticed that the clean, white gentlemen and ladies so teased one by one have failed, that she
once used for summer time so lively society .-- Once considered "
and she let the voice fall, as they talk in a dream, "once I am still
with it been, but I still was a little kid, Wiebe has told me many
times afterwards .-- Then, if everything together!

I can not believe it, Marx, and they have me so left all alone. "

I felt as if she could continue talking not so. "Let's go into the house," I said, "the other
will soon be back to the city. "

Do not listen to me, she let the arms fall down at her dress and said slowly: "He has not been
so wrong, and whoever gets the daughter of such a home!"

I felt like I shot the tears in his eyes. "Oh, Anne Lene," I cried
and appeared the steps leading to the pavilion, "I - I get it Give
me your hand, I know the way back to the world! "

But Anne Lene leaned
his body and made his arms a hasty defensive movement after me down.
"No," she cried, and it was a mortal fear in her voice, "you do not
Marx; remains! It wears us both not. "

[4] Since man is free to think as he pleases to the end that his life's love may emerge from
its hiding-place into the light of his understanding, and since he would not otherwise know
anything of his own evil and consequently would not know how to shun it, it is also true that
it would increase in him so much that recovery would become impossible in him and hardly be
possible in his children, were he to have children, for a parent's evil is transmitted to his
offspring. The Lord, however, provides that this may not occur.

282. The Lord could heal the understanding in every man and thus cause him to think not evil
but good, and this by means of fears of different kinds, miracles, conversations with the dead,
or visions and dreams. But to heal the understanding alone is to heal man only outwardly, for
understanding with its thought is the external of man's life while the will with its affection
is the internal. The healing of the understanding alone would therefore be like palliative
healing in which the interior malignity, closed in and kept from issuing, would destroy first
the near and then the remote parts till all would become mortified. The will itself must be
healed, not by the influx of the understanding into it, for that is impossible, but by means
of instruction and exhortation from the understanding. Were the understanding alone healed,
man would become like a dead body embalmed or covered by fragrant spices and roses which would
soon get such a foul odor from the body that they could not be brought near anyone's nostrils. 

Among the trees, which were beyond the river, saw it as a dark Setting out into the moonlit
landscape out in whatever now and then the individual farmsteads such nebulae sticking out of
the plane. It was so quiet you heard nothing but the rustle the reeds, which stood in the trenches.
"Look, Anne Lene," I said, "the world is sleeping - as beautiful she is! "

"Yes, Marx," she replied softly, "and you're still so young!"

"Are you not more?" By these
three means the Lord heals the love of man's will, in fear at first, it is true, but with love
later. Still the evils are not separated from the man and cast out, but only removed in him
and put to the side. When they are and good has the center, evils do not appear, for whatever
has the central place is squarely under view and is seen and perceived. It should be known,
however, that even when good occupies the center man is not for that reason in good unless
the evils at the side tend downward or outward. If they look upward or inward they have not
been removed, but are still trying to return to the center. They tend downward and outward
when man shuns his evils as sins and still more when he holds them in aversion, for then he
condemns them, consigns them to hell, and makes them face that way.

284. Man's understanding is the recipient of both good and evil and of both truth and falsity,
but not his will. His will must be either in evil or in good; it cannot be in both, for it
is the man himself and in it is his life's love. But good and evil are separate in the understanding
like what is internal and what is external. Thus man may be inwardly in evil and outwardly
in good. Still, when he is being reformed, the two meet, and conflict and combat ensue. This
is called temptation when it is severe, but when it is not severe a fermentation like that
of wine or strong drink occurs. If good conquers, evil with its falsity is carried to the side,
as lees, to use an analogy, fall to the bottom of a vessel. The good is like wine that becomes
generous on fermentation and like strong drink which becomes clear. But if evil conquers, good
with its truth is borne to the side and becomes turbid and noisome like unfermented wine or
unfermented strong drink. Comparison is made with ferment because in the Word, as at Hosea
7:4, Luke 12:1 and elsewhere, "ferment" signifies falsity of evil. Anne Lene tied her handkerchief around her head, and then we went to, like
We often done to the corner of the house and over the wharves after the tree garden. We did
not speak, I wanted to ask Anne Lene, her eyes again to the world zurueckzuwenden and no longer
live in the shadows of the past, but the unsettling sense a selfish request, which I zurueckbehielt
for good times in the bottom of my heart, took away my breath and let no word pass my lips. My heart beat
so loud that I was always afraid it would make known without words my innermost thoughts. We
went through the little gate into the orchard, between the shimmering Tribes the huge white poplars,
whose leaves were by no crown of light.
 It follows
that the Lord's presence in these faculties is also in the least things, indeed the very least,
of man's understanding and thought, of his will and affection too, and thence of his speech
and action. If you remove these faculties from even the very least thing, you will not be able
to think or utter it as a human being.

[2] It has already been shown abundantly that the human being is a human being by virtue of
the two faculties, enabled by them to think and speak, and to perceive goods and understand
truths, not only such as are civil and moral but also such as are spiritual, and made capable,
too, of being reformed and regenerated; in a word, made capable of being conjoined to the Lord
and thereby of living forever. It was also shown that not only good men but evil also possess
the two faculties. These faculties are in man from the Lord and are not appropriated to him
as his, for what is divine cannot be appropriated but only adjoined to him and thus appear
to be his, and this which is divine with the human being is in the least things pertaining
to him. It follows that the Lord governs the least things in an evil man as well as in a good
man. This government of His is what is called divine providence.

286. Inasmuch as it is a law of divine providence that man shall act from freedom according
to reason, that is, from the two faculties, liberty and rationality; and a law of divine providence
that what he does shall appear to be from himself and thus his own; and also a law that evils
must be permitted in order that man may be led out of them, it follows that man can abuse these
faculties and in freedom according to reason confirm whatever he pleases. He can make reasonable
whatever he will, whether it is reasonable in itself or not. Some therefore ask, "What is truth?
Can I not make true whatever I will?" Does not the world do so? Anybody can do it by reasoning.
Take an utter falsity and bid a clever man confirm it, and he will. The crying stopped but not; filled
it by day from the two rooms, and appeared in every night searching through the house go to sleep
so that the children did not want. And adults were burning light up into the morning, because
everyone in the old house was the corner of his room to look and was secretly glad when the next
rainy day gray beat against the windows. Those who complained about the girl swore at Rosalka
soul and honesty that one can not however, do, stand as a holy water and pray the Our Father,
for so be it every time a die with many worldly desires in the heart and without the proper
rest and devotion. And they prayed at the Peel beets and the crockery washed, the neighbors were
praying and Höckin under the stone arcades also prayed. Holy water and splashed it behind the two
women, which those with slow rhythmical steps down the hall and the corridors were as learned
they had behind the hearse. Mrs. Wanka often went out, ran a few streets along aimlessly again
to return home. Luisa but did not move from her seat. You had no fantasies, and in her dreams,
all colors become so pale as the Days outside. Sometimes she counted the drops on the windows
and listened: it swept her by such a large current in the driven many broken, unintelligible
words, always more and more - and she thought, as after a flood. Then she winced suddenly, as
if someone had called and - once again began to count the number of trickling drops.

Thus came All Souls. Since even see the broad streets of the Town
of thought

. It was shown above that divine providence is in the least things
of man's thoughts and affections. This means that man can think and will nothing from himself,
but that everything he thinks and wills and consequently says and does, is from influx. If
it is good, it is from influx out of heaven, and if evil, from influx out of hell; or what
is the same, the good is from influx from the Lord and the evil from man's proprium. I know
that it is difficult to grasp this, because what flows in from heaven or from the Lord is distinguished
from what flows in from hell or from man's proprium, and yet divine providence is said to be
in the least of man's thoughts and affections, even so far that he can think and will nothing
from himself. It appears like a contradiction to say that he can also think and will from hell
and from his proprium. Yet it is not, and this will be seen in what follows, after some things
have been premised which will clarify the matter.

288. All the angels of heaven confess that no one can think from himself but does so from the
Lord, while all the spirits of hell say that no one can think from any other than himself.
These spirits have been shown many times that no one of them thinks or can think from himself,
but that thought flows in; it was in vain, however; they would not accept the idea. But experience
will teach, first, that everything of thought and affection even with spirits of hell flows
in from heaven, but that the inflowing good is turned into evil there and truth into falsity,
thus everything into its opposite. This was shown in this way: a truth from the Word was sent
down from heaven, was received by those uppermost in hell, and by them sent to lower hells,
and on to the lowest. On the way it was turned by stages into falsity and finally into falsity
the direct opposite of the truth. Those with whom it was so changed thought the falsity of
themselves seemingly and knew no otherwise; still it was truth, flowing down from heaven on
the way to the lowest hell, which was thus falsified and perverted. I have heard of this several
times. The same thing occurs with good; as it flows down from heaven, it is changed step by
step into the evil opposite to it. Hence it was plain that truth and good, proceeding from
the Lord and received by those who are in falsity and evil, are completely altered and so transformed
that their first form is lost. The like happens in every evil person, for as to his spirit
he is in hell.

289. I have often been shown that no one in hell thinks from himself but through others around
him, and these do not, but through others still. Thoughts and affections make their way from
one society to another, but no one is aware that they do not originate with himself. Some who
believed that they thought and willed of themselves were dispatched to another society and
held there, and communication was cut off with the societies around to which their thoughts
usually extended. Then they were told to think differently from the spirits of this society,
and compel themselves to think to the contrary; they confessed that they could not. Anne Lene went silent and closed in on my side, and their thoughts want to be
there, from which I so ardently wished to recall .-- We were to Graft come down, which was also
the limit of the actual court. Some, pondering this, said that
it was amazing, and that hardly anyone can be led to credit it, for it is utterly contrary
to the appearance, but that they still could not deny it, for it was fully demonstrated. Nevertheless,
astonished as they were, they said that they are not in fault then in thinking evil; also that
it seems then as if evil is from the Lord; and, again, that they do not understand how the
one Lord can cause all to think so diversely. The three points will be explained in what follows.

290. To the experiences cited this is also to be added. When it was granted me by the Lord
to speak with spirits and angels, the foregoing arcanum was at once disclosed to me. For I
was told from heaven that like others I believed that I thought and willed from myself, when
in fact nothing was from myself, but if it was good, it was from the Lord, and if evil from
hell. That this was so, was shown me to the life by various thoughts and affections which were
induced on me, and gradually I was given to perceive and feel it. Therefore, as soon as an
evil afterwards entered my will or a falsity into my thought, I investigated the source of
it. I inquired from whom it came. This was disclosed to me, and I was also allowed to speak
with those spirits, refute them, and compel them to withdraw, thus to take back their evil
and falsity and keep it to themselves, and no longer infuse anything of the kind into my thought.
This has occurred a thousand times. I have remained in this state for many years, and still
do. Yet I seem to myself to think and will from myself like others, with no difference, for
of the Lord's providence it should so appear to everyone, as was shown above in the section
on it. "Harre, my
good Harre, "she cried, weeping," your hand has already saved me from the abyss! "

As these words were glowing drops in my soul. In all the years was not a word of Past come over my lips,
first of youthful timidity, also admit the holiest later, probably to conceal the unconscious need,
the internal discord. Now suddenly I feel impelled to, to reveal everything without any consideration.
And sitting on the edge of the abyss, I poured my heart out in front of the woman I had desired
just been buried in them. Also I did not conceal it. She burst into violent tears, she cried
over me, about themselves, they complained most loudly about Agnes. "Wait, Wait," she said,
but they put her head on my chest, "I did not know, but it is now too late, and no one can
take this sin from us! "

It was now calm to me, they, and only several hours later we arrived in the village one where
our children were waiting for us long ago. But since that time my wife was with its mild and
just heart my best friend and no longer a secret between us. - So went the years. Gradually
they seemed to have forgotten that their I paid and child welfare
with a foreign Glueck had, and in me it was quiet. Everything that a man thinks and wills, and consequently speaks and does, flows in from
the one Fountain of life, and yet that one Fountain of life, namely, the Lord, is not the cause
of man's thinking what is evil and false. This may be clarified by these facts in the world
of nature. Heat and light proceed from the sun of the world. They flow into all visible subjects
and objects, not only into subjects that are good and objects that are beautiful, but also
into subjects that are evil and objects that are ugly, producing varying effects in them. They
flow not only into trees that bear good fruit but into trees that bear bad fruit, and into
the fruits themselves, quickening their growth. They flow into good seed and into weeds, into
shrubs which have a good use and are wholesome, and into shrubs that have an evil use and are
poisonous. Yet it is the same heat and the same light; there is no cause of evil in them; the
cause is in the recipient subjects and objects.

[2] The same warmth that hatches eggs in which a screech-owl, a horned owl, and a viper lie
acts as it does when it hatches those in which a dove, a bird of paradise and a swan lie. Put
eggs of both sorts under the hen and they will be hatched by her warmth, which in itself is
innocent of harm. What has the heat in common then with what is evil and noxious? The heat
flowing into a marsh or a dung-hill or into decaying or dead matter acts in the same way as
it does when it flows into things flavorsome and fragrant, lush and living. Who does not see
that the cause is not in the heat but in the recipient subject? The same light gives pleasing
colors in one object and displeasing colors in another; indeed, it grows brighter in white
objects and becomes dazzling, and dims in those verging on black and becomes dusky.

[3] There is what is similar in the spiritual world. There are heat and light in it from its
sun, which is the Lord, and they flow from the sun into their subjects and objects. Now the
subjects and objects are angels and spirits, in particular their volitional and mental life,
and the heat is divine love going forth, and the light is divine wisdom going forth. The light
and heat are not the cause of the different reception of them by one and another.

