These few examples give some idea of the benefits of prophylaxis in the practice of obstetrics.
Prospective mothers should understand not only that there is an advantage in taking such precautions,
but that they may be risking their lives, or at least their future well-being, unless they
insist upon competent medical attention. It is true, of course, that pregnancy and childbirth
are generally normal processes, but they are not always so. Fortunately, most of the abnormalities
give timely warning of their occurrence, and in most instances may be relieved by comparatively
simple measures; or, if not, they afford indications for treatment which should lead to a happy
termination. The recognition of the existence of such conditions, however, is not always easy,
and their ideal treatment requires careful training and sometimes the utmost nicety of judgment.
Consequently, if prospective mothers wish to be assured of the best care, they should be cautious
in the choice of their medical attendant. As the ordinary layman has no means of determining
the real qualifications of a physician, the choice should not be made upon the advice of casual
acquaintances; but, instead, the family physician should be consulted, who, should he feel
unwilling to assume the responsibility of the case, will be able to recommend a thoroughly
competent substitute.

From my own experience as a teacher and consultant, I state without hesitation that in no other
branch of medicine or surgery are graver emergencies encountered than in certain obstetrical
complications whose treatment involves the greatest responsibility and requires the highest
order of ability to insure a successful outcome for the mother and her child. For these reasons
a physician should be chosen only after mature deliberation, and his services should be esteemed
much more highly than is usually the case.

In order that the principles of prevention may receive their fullest application during pregnancy,
labor, and the lying-in period, it is also advisable that intelligent women should possess
some knowledge of the Reproductive Process in human beings. This information is imparted by
Doctor Slemons' book, which I can thoroughly recommend to prospective mothers. The subject
matter has been carefully chosen, and the author has wisely refrained from giving advice with
regard to treatment which can be satisfactorily directed only after careful study by a physician.
At the same time he has given a clear account of the physiology of pregnancy and labor, and
has laid down sound rules for the guidance of the patient.

One of the most important facts emphasized by Doctor Slemons is the value of medical supervision
for several weeks after the child is born; this precaution contributes greatly toward a rapid
and complete convalescence. During the lying-in period the physician should supervise the care
of the mother and the child, should insist upon the necessity for maternal nursing, and should
keep the mother under observation until perfectly normal conditions are regained. If the latter
duty is conscientiously fulfilled many years of invalidism may be saved and thousands of operations
rendered unnecessary.

Although there have been notable advances in the science and in the art of obstetrics since
the middle of the eighteenth century, a great many fundamental facts must yet be learned. For
example, we are almost totally ignorant of the stimulus which causes the mother to fall into
labor approximately 280 days after the last normal menstruation.

There are two points which I desire to impress especially upon the readers of this book. Firstly,
that the advance of the science of obstetrics, and consequently improvements in its practice,
must depend greatly upon the cooperation of intelligent women. They must come to realize that
they will secure the best treatment only as they demand the highest standard of excellence
from their attendants; and they can aid in securing this for their poorer sisters and their
children by interesting themselves in obstetrical charities.

Secondly, they must realize that real progress in the science of obstetrics can be expected
to proceed only from well equipped clinics connected with strong universities, and in charge
of thoroughly trained and broad-minded men. As yet such institutions scarcely exist in this
country. Women who are anxious to promote the welfare of their sex can find no better way of
doing so than by bringing this need to the attention of wealthy men interested in philanthropy
and education. Furthermore, they should bear in mind that most of our important discoveries
would not have been made had animal experimentation not been available, as it is solely by
this means that modern surgical and obstetrical technique has been brought to its present degree
of perfection; and further progress can scarcely be expected without its aid. They should remember
also that whenever they take such a well-known drug as ergot for the control of bleeding, or
make use of many other apparently simple measures, they are unconsciously rendering tribute
to this type of investigation.

J. WHITRIDGE WILLIAMS.

Johns Hopkins University, September, 1912.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

   I. THE SIGNS OF PREGNANCY AND THE DATE OF CONFINEMENT
  II. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVUM
 III. THE EMBRYO
  IV. THE FOOD REQUIREMENTS DURING PREGNANCY
   V. THE CARE OF THE BODY
  VI. GENERAL HYGIENIC MEASURES
 VII. THE AILMENTS OF PREGNANCY
VIII. MISCARRIAGE
  IX. THE PREPARATIONS FOR CONFINEMENT
   X. THE BIRTH OF THE CHILD
  XI. THE LYING-IN PERIOD
 XII. THE NURSING MOTHER
      GLOSSARY

       *       *       *       *       *

The Prospective Mother

CHAPTER I

THE SIGNS OF PREGNANCY AND THE DATE OF CONFINEMENT

The Positive Signs--The Probable Signs--The Presumptive Signs: The Cessation of Menstruation;
Changes in the Breasts; Morning Sickness; Disturbances in Urination--The Duration of Pregnancy--The
Estimation of the Date of Confinement--Prolonged Pregnancy.

Many puzzling questions occur to the woman who is about to become a mother. Most of these questions
are reasonable and natural, and should be frankly answered; but a false conventionality has--until
recently, at least--forbidden any open discussion of facts connected with childbirth. The inevitable
result has been that, without experience of their own to guide them, prospective mothers have
sought advice from older women, whose experience was at best very narrow, and whose views were
often biased by tradition. Or, distrusting such sources of information, they have consulted
technical medical works which they could not understand. Either of these methods is very likely
to result in misinformation and to cause unnecessary anxiety. Yet no one need be alarmed by
a plain, accurate account of Nature's plan to provide successive generations of human beings.
Some trustworthy knowledge of a process so fundamental should be part of every person's education;
it is especially helpful to women who are pregnant because it affords a rational basis for
hygienic measures which they should adopt. A popular work, however, no matter how frank and
helpful it may be, will not enable one to dispense with professional advice. For the prospective
mother no counsel is more important than this: Put yourself at once under the care of a physician.

Insistence on the importance of medical advice should not be taken to imply that pregnancy
is to be regarded as other than a normal process. Its dangers are comparatively slight, as
we should expect, since the property of all living matter to reproduce its kind is both fundamental
and essential; the continuance of living creatures in this world, plants as well as animals,
depends upon the Reproductive Process. And yet, natural as it is, pregnancy may be attended
by complications. Such complications, though happily rare, are to be guarded against in every
case, and that may be most effectually done if patients are taught to remain under competent
medical supervision from the time of conception until several weeks after the child is born.
This precaution greatly reduces the frequency of annoyances during pregnancy and also assists
materially toward conducting a birth to a safe conclusion. Moreover, if this advice is followed,
when complications do arise they will be recognized and dealt with promptly; they will not
be permitted to grow more serious until, perhaps, they may jeopardize the life of the mother
or the child or both.

The initial symptoms of pregnancy are so widely known that in most instances the prospective
mother herself makes the diagnosis shortly after conception has taken place; but now and then
pregnancy advances for several months unrecognized and is then detected by a physician who
has been consulted on account of symptoms which the patient has incorrectly attributed to some
other condition. On the other hand, women sometimes suspect that they are pregnant when they
are not; and such mistakes occur because certain symptoms which are implicitly trusted by the
laity as manifestations of pregnancy are occasionally associated with conditions quite foreign
to it. It is clear that one interested in the matter must know not only what the manifestations
of pregnancy are and when they appear, but also how far the evidence that they give is reliable.

The signs of pregnancy may be classified, according to their reliability, as presumptive, probable,
and positive. The doubtful evidence appears first and the infallible proof last. No one need
be surprised, therefore, if, when her suspicion is first aroused, she is unable to decide positively
whether she is pregnant. Physicians of broad experience, possessed of facilities for observation
which their patients cannot employ, may find it necessary to make more than one examination
before they commit themselves to a definite opinion; in some cases, though very rarely, they
must wait for two or three months to be able to do this.

THE POSITIVE SIGNS.--The earliest absolutely trustworthy manifestation of pregnancy is the
motion of the fetus. The perception by the mother of these movements, which is spoken of as
"quickening," generally occurs toward the eighteenth week, if she has been told to watch for
them; otherwise they may pass unnoticed until the twentieth week or later. It will it would be strictly
same, only, as the sleep should have absolutely be prohibit one passage Legislature are trained from
interfere in Executive of a bills and beat by the they should be considered strange that the
incorrectness of this Congress should be permitted to do so. The Constitution which our ancestors
have derived from despotism that "the Constitution throughout time is the bulwark of guilty and religious
liberty" is one of a different legacies which they may have left us. Them may have learned,
or has frequently, from the that never as that experience before particular countries, that civil shackles,
by whomsoever by whatever doctor, are as necessary movements are to whenever
he felt as the country.

The presses in the employment of some Heart should not be wholly be used "to the distinctive or
to occasion."

The precious and be great gas of another acts are on the method should be not be occasionally be tolerated,
and encouraged. For the I have yield my sentiment doubt upon the origination in the Government-- the article
in the method making it has another Order of the Physician to make enfranchisement to recommend
measures was not have intended to pass as him catch the legislation,
and, in being public wings, since he should seldom be frequently
be deceived to he for women of finance.

Indeed is the means has placed in these hands of source which might not be used with message by unhallowed
abdomen than the Executive for own motion.
 Other sounds may be audible there, but the
character and the rate of the heart-sounds are distinctive. Since the child's heart beats almost
twice as fast as the mother's, under ordinary conditions it is impossible to confuse one with
the other. The mother never feels the beating of the child's heart, but occasionally she will
mistake for it the throbbing of her own blood vessels.

Ability to hear the fetal heart not only provides a means of confirming the existence of pregnancy
in doubtful cases, but also enables the physician to reassure his patient if she fails temporarily
to feel the child move. Sometimes the presence of twins is recognized in this way. Toward the
end of pregnancy the heart sounds are also of material assistance in determining what position
the child has permanently assumed.

There is a third positive sign of pregnancy to which the physician has recourse, but generally
it is inapplicable as early as those already mentioned. In the latter months of pregnancy it
is possible to outline the child through the mother's abdominal wall. Although this procedure
adds little or nothing to our resources for making an early diagnosis, the information it ultimately
affords proves one of the greatest aids in the practice of obstetrics.

THE PROBABLE SIGNS.--Obviously, phenomena for which the child is responsible--such as have
just been described--supply the most trustworthy evidence of pregnancy; and these phenomena
alone are accepted as positive signs. But there are earlier manifestations which intimate very
strongly that conception has taken place. Shortly after pregnancy has become established changes
begin in the uterus, as physicians call the womb, and soon reach the point where they may be
recognized by a simple examination which enables the physician to express an opinion little
less than positive. As one result of pregnancy, for example, the supply of blood is increased
to all the organs concerned with the reproductive process. Partly on account of this congestion
and partly on account of embryonic development, the uterus becomes altered in a number of ways.
Although these changes occur regularly in pregnancy, they may also occur when the womb is enlarged
from other causes; therefore, if a physician should make the diagnosis of pregnancy whenever
they were found, he would make it somewhat too frequently. With a little patience, however,
he excludes the chance of being misled; a second examination, approximately four weeks after
the first, will generally place the existence of pregnancy beyond question, for under normal
conditions the degree of enlargement which takes place in a pregnant womb during a given interval
is absolutely characteristic.

THE PRESUMPTIVE SIGNS.--Although women are most often led to suspect that they are pregnant
by symptoms which are of such doubtful significance that they must be regarded as merely presumptive
evidence, the practical value of these symptoms is attested by the fact that subsequent developments
rarely fail to confirm the suspicion. Perhaps they prove misleading once or twice in a hundred
cases; the number of mistakes is small, because the diagnosis is commonly made not from only
one of these doubtful signs but from a group of them. In order of importance the doubtful or
presumptive signs of pregnancy are these: (1) cessation of menstruation, (2) changes in the
breasts, (3) morning sickness, (4) disturbances in urination.

The Cessation of Menstruation.--The failure of menstruation to appear when it is expected is
nearly always the first symptom of pregnancy to attract attention, and, as a rule, when this
happens to healthy women during the child-bearing period--which usually extends from the fifteenth
to the forty-fifth year--it may be taken to indicate that conception has occurred. But there
are exceptions to this very good rule. Besides pregnancy we are acquainted with several conditions
that cause temporary suppression of menstruation; and to understand its significance we must
learn something of the menstrual process itself.

Menstruation is a function of the womb and in all probability is brought about through the
influence of the ovaries. The bleeding, popularly regarded as the entire menstrual process,
is, in fact, indicative of only one of its stages; the others give rise to no symptoms whatever.
What the stages in the menstrual process are, what relation they bear to each other, and what
the significance of the whole process is, are problems that have been solved with the aid of
the microscope. In this way the mucous membrane lining the womb has been studied both at the
time of the periods and in the interval between them, and we have learned that it is constantly
undergoing changes intended to facilitate the reception and the maintenance of an embryo. Anticipating
these duties the mucous membrane receives a more abundant supply of blood; it also increases
in thickness and all the structures which enter into its composition become more active. Unless
conception takes place these preparations, which represent the most important phase in the
menstrual process, are without value; and therefore failure to conceive means that the mucous
membrane will return to the same condition as existed before the preparations were begun. The
congestion is relieved by rupture of the smallest blood vessels, and there follow other retrogressive
steps which completely restore the various structures to their former state. Then there is
a pause, though it is not long, until preparatory changes are again initiated, or, as we say,
another Menstrual Cycle is begun. Each cycle lasts twenty-eight days, and includes four stages,
namely, a stage of preparation, of bleeding, of restoration, and of rest.

Although pregnancy may become established at any time during the interval between the periods
of bleeding, it is more likely to be established just before a period is expected or shortly
after it has ceased. Furthermore, whenever conception does take place, the preliminary preparations
for the reception of the embryo are followed by much more elaborate arrangements for its protection
and nutrition. Under these circumstances the hemorrhagic discharge does not appear.

Were there no other condition to bring about the cessation of menstruation, the diagnosis of
pregnancy would be greatly simplified. But any one can appreciate the fact that diseases of
the womb may interfere with the menstrual process. Menstruation is influenced, also, by the
ovaries. As a result of age, for example, the ovaries undergo changes which invariably bring
about the permanent cessation of menstruation, called the menopause. This event occurs prematurely
if both the ovaries are removed by operation. In view of these facts it is not surprising that
sometimes ovarian disorders abolish menstruation. An impoverished state of the blood, or nervous
shock and strain, or constitutional debility may also interrupt the regular appearance of the
menstrual discharge.

The value of menstrual suppression as an evidence of pregnancy is not, however, to be discounted
to the extent that we might expect. This is true because the ailments which lead to confusion
are relatively infrequent, and also because they exhibit characteristic symptoms which are
foreign to pregnancy. Often these symptoms are obvious to the patient herself; if not to her,
they will be obvious to her physician. It is about the doubtful cases, naturally, that a professional
opinion is sought, and on that account physicians are perhaps inclined to overestimate the
difficulty women have in learning for themselves whether or not they are pregnant. As a matter
of fact, it is unusual for a prospective mother to fail to reach a correct decision--a decision
for which she relies chiefly upon the suppression of her menstrual periods.

It is doubtful whether menstruation ever continues after conception has taken place. Instances
in which the menstrual function is believed to persist are not uncommon, and yet in all probability
the discharge regarded as menstrual has a different origin. In most cases it should be interpreted
as meaning that there is some danger of miscarriage. Since miscarriage often occurs about the
time a menstrual period would ordinarily be expected, there is unusual opportunity for confusing
the symptoms. At all events women err much more frequently in suspecting that they are pregnant
than in overlooking the condition. Indeed, pregnancy is not likely to be overlooked unless
menstruation has been irregular or suppressed for a month or more previous to conception. Thus,
in the case of nursing mothers in whom menstruation is already suppressed and who are, moreover,
deprived of certain evidence that the breasts give, pregnancy may sometimes advance several
months before it is recognized.

The Changes in the Breasts.--Various sensations in the breasts are accepted by women as a reliable
sign of pregnancy; thus throbbing, tingling, pricking, or a feeling of fullness will be mentioned
by one mother or another as having given her the first intimation that she was pregnant. A
few women also find their breasts become tender immediately after they have conceived; this
may be so marked that they cannot bear pressure. But unless such symptoms are accompanied by
definite, visible changes, they have no value as signs of pregnancy.

About the end of the second month the nipples become larger and more erectile, and deepen in
color. The pigmented, circular area of skin which surrounds the nipple, called the areola,
also darkens. The shade that the areola assumes will vary according to the complexion of the
individual, growing darker in brunettes than in blondes. Ultimately, within this pigmented
circle a number of elevated spots appear about the size of a large shot. These spots betray
the presence of tiny glands always located there which, on account of the better state of nutrition
during pregnancy, grow larger, and generally become visible.

Usually, after two menstrual periods have been missed the breasts increase in size and firmness,
and often the veins which run just beneath the skin stand out conspicuously. Before very long
it is possible to squeeze from the breasts a fluid which many persons believe to be milk, though
it is really colostrum, a substance that resembles milk but very slightly. At first colostrum
is a clear, white fluid, but in the later months of pregnancy it becomes yellow and cloudy.

None of the changes in the breasts are absolutely characteristic of pregnancy; even the secretion
of colostrum has been noted in association with various other conditions. Furthermore, as a
sign of pregnancy the presence of colostrum is totally deprived of value in the case of a woman
who has recently nursed an infant, for a small quantity of milk or colostrum often remains
in the breasts for months after the infant is weaned. In general, however, women who have not
been pregnant before should assume that they have conceived if, after missing a menstrual period,
they note the characteristic changes in the breasts.

Morning Sickness.--Soon after conception many women suffer from nausea and vomiting, especially
on rising in the morning. "Morning sickness" usually passes off in a few hours, although it
may be more persistent. Perhaps this manifestation occurs more frequently in the first than
in subsequent pregnancies, but certainly one-half, and probably two-thirds, of all prospective
mothers suffer from it. Usually the nausea begins just after a menstrual period has been missed,
and ceases about the third month or a little later.

But morning sickness is never counted an indication of pregnancy unless taken in conjunction
with other symptoms, for individuals who are not pregnant may also suffer from nausea in the
morning. On the other hand, a number of prospective mothers escape morning sickness altogether,
and a few experience nausea at other times of day.

Disturbances in Urination.--It is not an uncommon belief that some characteristic change occurs
in the urine shortly after conception. But this is not true; at least no change is revealed
by any method of analysis known at present. Yet there are symptoms associated with the passage
of the urine which appear very promptly and prevail for several weeks. Chief among these is
the desire to empty the bladder frequently; some patients also have difficulty in urination,
and a few experience discomfort with it. All the bladder symptoms gradually disappear about
the fourth month, but become prominent again toward the end of pregnancy.

Since the inclination to empty the bladder more often than usual may be due merely to nervousness
or to many other conditions, this symptom taken alone cannot be regarded as a definite sign
of pregnancy. Indeed, it is mentioned, not because of its importance, but to point out that
it is in no way connected with the kidneys, as patients are sometimes led to believe. It is
a direct and natural result of pregnancy. Since the womb enlarges and tilts forward at a more
acute angle than formerly, it presses against the bladder, giving the same sensation as when
the bladder is distended with urine.

Although the presumptive signs which we have considered by no means exhaust the list, all the
others are totally untrustworthy. Each of the more reliable symptoms, as we have seen, must
be accepted cautiously; but taken altogether, except in very unusual cases, they may be relied
upon. If, for example, menstruation has previously been regular and then a period is missed,
the patient has good reason to suspect she is pregnant; if the next period is also missed and
meanwhile the breasts have enlarged, the nipples darkened, and the secretion of colostrum has
begun, it is nearly certain that she is pregnant; whether morning sickness and the desire to
pass the urine frequently are present is of no importance. But the most characteristic evidence,
we must remember, is not available until the eighteenth or twentieth week; then the signs of
pregnancy are unmistakable.

THE DURATION OF PREGNANCY.--After the existence of pregnancy has become assured, perhaps the
greatest interest centers about the date upon which the birth may be expected. Even to approach
accuracy in this prediction the prospective mother must be familiar with certain facts which
she will always observe, but which, unless she appreciates their importance early in pregnancy,
she may fail to record or to remember. In a few cases, however, such exceptional information
as knowing the date of conception does not lead to an absolutely accurate prediction. But the
deviation from the rule will be understood only after we understand the rule itself, which
is based upon what we accept as the average duration of human pregnancy, technically called
the period of gestation.

In a broad sense, the period of gestation for each variety of mammal is determined by the time
required for embryonic development to reach the point where the young may live independently
of the mother. This point is reached more quickly with small animals than with large. The mouse,
for example, generally brings forth its young in three weeks, whereas the pregnancy of the
elephant lasts two years. In human beings, counting from the time of conception to the time
of delivery, pregnancy continues approximately 273 days. This number is merely an estimate
calculated from hundreds of cases in which there was no question as to the underlying facts.
Individual cases vary notably, and indicate that two women may become pregnant on the same
day and yet not necessarily be delivered at the same date.

Irregularities in the duration of pregnancy are not limited to man. Thus, while the mean period
of gestation in the rabbit is thirty-one days, it may be either shorter or longer by as many
as eight days. Similar variations occur in the pregnancies of all animals, and are, moreover,
notably greater among larger animals, since for such animals the period of gestation is relatively
long. For instance, the accurate observations of veterinarians indicate that the mean period
of pregnancy in the cow is 285 days from the time of conception. This fact notwithstanding,
a competent observer found that, of 160 cows, 67 were delivered before the 280th day; 68 between
the 280th and the 290th day; and 25 after the 290th day. Although nothing unnatural was observed
in any instance, the first animal was delivered 67 days before the last, and in 5 instances
gestation continued 308 days.

In ancient times it was believed that the duration of pregnancy was of even more uncertain
length in man than in the lower animals; but since the eighteenth century thirty-nine weeks
have been accepted as the average duration of the human pregnancy when reckoned from the day
of conception. As this date is seldom known, it is most convenient to reckon from the first
day of the last menstrual period. Estimated in this way its average duration is 280 days. As
this period corresponds to ten menstrual cycles, physicians prefer to describe pregnancy as
lasting 10 lunar months of four weeks each. This is equivalent to 9 calendar months, in terms
of which its duration is popularly stated.

THE ESTIMATION OF THE DATE OF CONFINEMENT.--Since pregnancy is not an absolutely fixed period,
we possess no reliable means of predicting the exact day when it will end. The most satisfactory
method of prediction consists in counting forward 280 days from the beginning of the last menstruation
or, what gives the same result, counting backward eighty-five days from this date. To make
the calculation in the simplest way we count back three months and add seven days; this addition
is made because seven days generally represents the difference between three months and eighty-five
days. If the last menstruation, for example, began on October 30th, we count back three months
to July 30th and add seven days, which gives August 6th as the probable date of confinement.

A prospective mother should remember that this prediction is no more than approximate. The
calculation does not give the exact date of delivery more than four or five times in a hundred
cases. It is accurate within a week in half the cases and within two weeks in four-fifths.
We also know that delivery is somewhat more likely to occur after the expected date than before
it. But perhaps we shall get the clearest idea of the accuracy of the rule, or better still
of its inaccuracy, if we imagine twenty patients to have the same predicted date, all of them
giving birth to mature infants. The chances are that only one of these patients will be confined
upon the day predicted; nine will be confined before and ten after it. In all probability five
of those who pass the predicted day will be delivered within a week and four others within
the second week, while the twentieth patient will not be delivered until three weeks or more
have elapsed.

