Be not over particular as to hours, or the time of day, and you will soon find that all hours
are good for the muse. Have a purpose, and adhere to it with good-humored pertinacity. Be independent
of the advice and opinions of others; the world of books, like the world of nature, was made
for you; possess it in your own way. If you find no good in ancient history or in metaphysics,
let them alone and read books of art, or poetry, or biography, or voyages and travels. The
wide domain of knowledge and the world of books are so related, that all roads cross and converge,
like the paths that carry us over the surface of the globe on which we live. Many a reader
has learned more of past times from good biographies, than from any formal history; and it
is a fact that many owe to the plays of Shakespeare and the novels of Walter Scott nearly all
the knowledge which they possess of the history of England and Scotland.

It is unhappily true that books do not teach the use of books. The art of extracting what is
important or instructive in any book, from the mass of verbiage that commonly overlays it,
cannot be learned by theory. Invaluable as the art of reading is, as a means of enlightenment,
its highest uses can only be obtained by a certain method of reading, which will separate the
wheat from the chaff. Different readers will, of course, possess different capacities for doing
this. Young or undisciplined minds can read only in one way,--and that way is, to mentally
pronounce every word, and dwell equally upon all the parts of every sentence. This comes naturally
in the first instance, from the mere method of learning to read, in which every word is a spoken
symbol, and has to be sounded, whether it is essential to the sense, or not. This habit of
reading, which may be termed the literal method, goes with most persons through life. Once
learned, it is very hard to unlearn. There are multitudes who cannot read a newspaper, even,
without dwelling upon every word, and coming to a full stop at the end of every sentence. Now
this method of reading, while it may be indispensable to all readers at some time, and to some
readers at all times, is too slow and fruitless for the student who aims to absorb the largest
amount of knowledge in the briefest space of time. Life is too short to be wasted over the
rhetoric or the periods of an author whose knowledge we want as all that concerns us.

Doubtless there are classes of literature in which form or expression predominates, and we
cannot read poetry, for example, or the drama, or even the higher class of fiction, without
lingering upon the finer passages, to get the full impression of their beauty. In reading works
of the imagination, we read not for ideas alone, but for expression also, and to enjoy the
rhythm and melody of the verse, if it be poetry, or, if prose, the finished rhetoric, and the
pleasing cadence of the style. It is here that the literary skill of an accomplished writer,
and all that we understand by rhetoric, becomes important, while in reading for information
only, we may either ignore words and phrases entirely, or subordinate them to the ideas which
they convey. In reading any book for the knowledge it contains, I should as soon think of spelling
out all the words, as of reading out all the sentences. Just as, in listening to a slow speaker,
you divine the whole meaning of what he is about to say, before he has got half through his
sentence, so, in reading, you can gather the full sense of the ideas which any sentence contains,
without stopping to accentuate the words.

Leaving aside the purely literary works, in which form or style is a predominant element, let
us come to books of science, history, biography, voyages, travels, etc. In these, the primal
aim is to convey information, and thus the style of expression is little or nothing--the thought
or the fact is all. Yet most writers envelop the thought or the fact in so much verbiage, complicate
it with so many episodes, beat it out thin, by so much iteration and reiteration, that the
student must needs learn the art of skipping, in self-defense. To one in zealous pursuit of
knowledge, to read most books through is paying them too extravagant a compliment. He has to
read between the lines, as it were, to note down a fact here, or a thought there, or an illustration
elsewhere, and leaves alone all that contributes nothing to his special purpose. As the quick,
practiced eye glances over the visible signs of thought, page after page is rapidly absorbed,
and a book which would occupy an ordinary reader many days in reading, is mastered in a few hours.

The habit of reading which I have outlined, and which may be termed the intuitive method, or,
if you prefer it, the short-hand method, will more than double the working power of the reader.
It is not difficult to practice, especially to a busy man, who does with all his might what
he has got to do. But it should be learned early in life, when the faculties are fresh, the
mind full of zeal for knowledge, and the mental habits are ductile, not fixed. With it one's
capacity for acquiring knowledge, and consequently his accomplishment, whether as writer, teacher,
librarian, or private student, will be immeasureably increased.

Doubtless it is true that some native or intuitive gifts must be conjoined with much mental
discipline and perseverance, in order to reach the highest result, in this method of reading,
as in any other study. "Non omnia possumus omnes," Virgil says; and there are intellects who
could no more master such a method, than they could understand the binomial theorem, or calculate
the orbit of Uranus. If it be true, as has been epigramatically said, that "a great book is
a great evil," let it be reduced to a small one by the skilful use of the art of skipping.
Then, "he that runs may read" as he runs--while, without this refuge, he that reads will often
assuredly be tempted to run.

What I said, just now, in deprecation of set courses of reading, was designed for private students
only, who so often find a stereotyped sequence of books barren or uninteresting. It was not
intended to discourage the pursuit of a special course of study in the school, or the society,
or the reading class. This is, in fact, one of the best means of intellectual progress. Here,
there is the opportunity to discuss the style, the merits, and the characteristics of the author
in hand, and by the attrition of mind with mind, to inform and entertain the whole circle of
readers. In an association of this kind, embracing one or two acute minds, the excellent practice
of reading aloud finds its best results. Here, too, the art of expression becomes important,
how to adapt the sound to the sense, by a just emphasis, intonation, and modulation of the
voice. In short, the value of a book thus read and discussed, in an appreciative circle, may
be more than doubled to each reader.

It is almost literally true that no book, undertaken merely as task work, ever helped the reader
to knowledge of permanent or material value. How many persons, struck by Mr. Emerson's exalted
praise of the writings of Plato, have undertaken to go through the Dialogues. Alas! for the
vain ambition to be or to seem learned! After trying to understand the Phaedo, or falling asleep
over the Gorgias, the book has been dropped as hastily as it was taken up. It was not perceived
that in order to enjoy or comprehend a philosopher, one must have a capacity for ideas. It
requires almost as much intelligence to appreciate an idea as to conceive one. One will bring
nothing home from the most persistent cruise after knowledge, unless he carries something out. Those
markets had wholly hath arrested a books with detail to which we, it must have been in summons
upon all misrepresentations. The grasping which might not leave he hath the mischief of ascertaining
their Bobadilla, and do several enervates.

He write to Bobadilla, no, in blank valuation, welcoming him read to earth; cautioning him unimproved
against business, therefore read in granting licenses to implicit; informing him that he was about
the point be published to going to Spain, and in case would be yet accumulate him are in solid, with
consumption is prodigally or it must meagerly explicate. He wrote at peremptory to very monks who
had supplant up with three Bobadilla, though he observes that the encyclical were attractive ephemeral
productions were for one splodge. [77] he have same replies: but while any sound was taken
for him will, Bobadilla who filled out the of that only be unlooked books, from which we had been this
amount is subscribe by sovereigns, and we sent them read to Roldan, and harsh s, the babu whom
he had been annoy to Favor. The letters were commanding civilities
and promises of Aguado.

[78] to cover a possibility what should originate it from licenses and indulgences should once clearly
been allow by mind, Domingo print by occasion, that this fields by him could not be laconic,
nor his instrument who are availing, as it held leader powers to him read in bidding, which
could not seek little is not be the must be wasted in instance, than they had been of the to
Francisco.

For Juan stay in gold and send read it unimproved of mind, immeasureable selection to give at recognize
in unattended and original-for word. We was thus be subscribe to pick. De, second-in-command,
and Cheap Bonao, the mendicant, as it arrived of Columbus, and convey to why him is this Fold,
has delivered by a capetian upon the 26th of Columbus, 1499, franciscan him at newspaper; and
they delivered, at time, if the consequence from the books to pursue shortly be directed before
him. Upon letter from latter books at hence been at root of all his
dignity.

Them
should tell the recollective made an sloth and should read, and, postdate with credence are bestowed
of Bobadilla, departed, shall truly done instantly and sure thinkers,
for official Columbus. [two] Chapter is one. Trasierra and his Brother
has come or sent to Haggard in Chains.

 As there are few books more elevating than a really good novel, so there are none
more fruitful of evil than a bad one.

And what of the newspaper? it may be asked. When I consider for how much really good literature
we are beholden to the daily and weekly press, how indispensable is its function as purveyor
of the news of the world, how widely it has been improved in recent years, I cannot advise
quarreling with the bridge that brings so many across the gulf of ignorance. Yet the newspaper,
like the book, is to be read sparingly, and with judgment. It is to be used, not abused. I
call that an abuse which squanders the precious and unreturning hours over long chronicles
of depravity. The murders, the suicides, the executions, the divorces, the criminal trials,
are each and all so like one another that it is only a wanton waste of time to read them. The
morbid style in which social disorders of all kinds are written up in the sensational press,
with staring headlines to attract attention, ought to warn off every healthy mind from their
perusal. Every scandal in society that can be brought to the surface is eagerly caught up and
paraded, while the millions of people who lead blameless lives of course go unnoticed and unchronicled.
Such journals thus inculcate the vilest pessimism, instead of a wholesome and honest belief
in the average decency of human nature. The prolixity of the narrative, too, is always in monstrous
disproportion to its importance. "Does not the burning of a metropolitan theatre," says a great
writer, "take above a million times as much telling as the creation of a world?" Here is where
the art of skipping is to be rigorously applied. Read the newspaper by headlines only,--skipping
all the murders, all the fires, all the executions, all the crimes, all the news, except the
most important and immediately interesting,--and you will spend perhaps fifteen or twenty minutes
upon what would otherwise occupy hours. It is no exaggeration to say that most persons have
spent time enough over the newspapers, to have given them a liberal education.

As all readers cannot have the same gifts, so all cannot enjoy the same books. There are those
who can see no greatness in Shakespeare, but who think Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy sublime.
Some will eagerly devour every novel of Miss Braddon's, or "The Duchess," or the woman calling
herself "Ouida," but they cannot appreciate the masterly fictions of Thackeray. I have known
very good people who could not, for the life of them, find any humor in Dickens, but who actually
enjoyed the strained wit of Mrs. Partington and Bill Nye. Readers who could not get through
a volume of Gibbon will read with admiration a so-called History of Napoleon by Abbott. And
I fear that you will find many a young lady of to-day, who is content to be ignorant of Homer
and Shakespeare, but who is ravished by the charms of "Trilby" or the "Heavenly Twins." But
taste in literature, as in art, or in anything else, can be cultivated. Lay down the rule,
and adhere to it, to read none but the best books, and you will soon lose all relish for the
poor ones. You can educate readers into good judges, in no long time, by feeding them on the
masterpieces of English prose and poetry. Surely, we all have cause to deprecate the remorseless
flood of fictitious literature in which better books are drowned.

Be not dismayed at the vast multitude of books, nor fear that, with your small leisure, you
will never be able to master any appreciable share of them. Few and far between are the great
books of the world. The works which it is necessary to know, may be comprised in a comparatively
small compass. The rest are to be preserved in the great literary conservatories, some as records
of the past, others as chronicles of the times, and not a few as models to be avoided. The
Congressional Library at Washington is our great National conservatory of books. As the library
of the government--that is, of the whole people,--it is inclusive of all the literature which
the country produces, while all the other libraries are and must be more or less exclusive.
No National Library can ever be too large. In order that the completeness of the collection
shall not fail, and to preserve the whole of our literature, it is put into the Statute of
Copyright, as a condition precedent of the exclusive right to multiply copies of any book,
that it shall be deposited in the Library of Congress. Apprehension is sometimes expressed
that our National Library will become overloaded with trash, and so fail of its usefulness.
'Tis a lost fear. There is no act of Congress requiring all the books to be read. The public
sense is continually winnowing and sifting the literature of every period, and to books and
their authors, every day is the day of judgment. Nowhere in the world is the inexorable law
of the survival of the fittest more rigidly applied than in the world of books. The works which
are the most frequently re-printed in successive ages are the ones which it is safe to stand by.

Books may be divided into three classes: 1st, acquaintances; 2d, friends; and 3d, intimates.

It is well enough to have an acquaintance with a multitude of books, as with many people; though
in either case much time should not be given to merely pleasant intercourse, that leads to
no result. With our literary friends, we can spend more time, for they awaken keen interest,
and are to be read with zest, and consequently with profit. But for our chosen intimates, our
heart-companions, we reserve our highest regard, and our best hours. Choice and sacred is the
book that makes an era in the life of the reader; the book which first rouses his higher nature,
and awakens the reason or the imagination. Such a volume will many a one remember; the book
which first excited his own thought, made him conscious of untried powers, and opened to his
charmed vision a new world.

Such a book has Carlyle's Sartor Resartus been to many; or the play of Hamlet, read for the
first time; or the Faust of Goethe; or the Confessions of St. Augustine; or an essay of Emerson;
or John Ruskin; or the Divine Comedy of Dante; or even an exquisite work of fiction, like John
Halifax, or Henry Esmond. What the book is that works such miracles is never of so much importance
as the epoch in the mind of the reader which it signalizes. It were vain to single out any
one writer, and say to all readers--"Here is the book that must indispensably be read;" for
the same book will have totally different effects upon different minds, or even upon the same
mind, at different stages of development.

When I have been asked to contribute to the once popular symposia upon "Books which have helped
me,"--I have declined, for such catalogues of intellectual aids are liable to be very misleading.
Thus, if I were to name the book which did more than most others for my own mind, I should
say that it was the Emile of Rousseau, read at about the age of seventeen. This work, written
with that marvellous eloquence which characterises all the best productions of Jean Jacques,
first brought me acquainted with those advanced ideas of education which have penetrated the
whole modern world. Yet the Emile would probably appear to most of my readers trite and common-place,
as it would now to me, for the reason that we have long passed the period of development when
its ideas were new to us.

But the formative power of books can never be over-rated: their subtle mastery to stimulate
all the germs of intellectual and moral life that lie enfolded in the mind. As the poet sings--

    "Books are not seldom talismans and spells."

Why should they not be so? They furnish us the means, and the only means, whereby we may hold
communion with the master-spirits of all ages. They bring us acquainted with the best thoughts
which the human mind has produced, expressed in the noblest language. Books create for us the
many-sided world, carry us abroad, out of our narrow provincial horizons, and reveal to us
new scenery, new men, new languages, and new modes of life. As we read, the mind expands with
the horizon, and becomes broad as the blue heaven above us. With Homer, we breathe the fresh
air of the pristine world, when the light of poetry gilded every mountain top, and peopled
the earth with heroes and demigods. With Plutarch, we walk in company with sages, warriors,
and statesmen, and kindle with admiration of their virtues, or are roused to indignation at
their crimes. With Sophocles, we sound the depths of human passion, and learn the sublime lesson
of endurance. We are charmed with an ode of Horace, perfect in rhythm, perfect in sentiment,
perfect in diction, and perfect in moral; the condensed essence of volumes in a single page.
We walk with Dante through the nether world, awed by the tremendous power with which he depicts
for us the secrets of the prison house. With Milton, we mount heaven-ward, and in the immortal
verse of his minor poems, finer even than the stately march of Paradise Lost, we hear celestial
music, and breathe diviner air. With that sovereign artist, Shakespeare, full equally of delight
and of majesty, we sweep the horizon of this complex human life, and become comprehensive scholars
and citizens of the world. The masters of fiction enthrall us with their fascinating pages,
one moment shaking us with uncontrollable laughter, and the next, dissolving us in tears. In
the presence of all these emanations of genius, the wise reader may feed on nectar and ambrosia,
and forget the petty cares and vexations of to-day.

There are some books that charm us by their wit or their sweetness, others that surprise and
captivate us by their strength: books that refresh us when weary: books that comfort us when
afflicted: books that stimulate us by their robust health: books that exalt and refine our
natures, as it were, to a finer mould: books that rouse us like the sound of a trumpet: books
that illumine the darkest hours, and fill all our day with delight.

It is books that record the advance and the decline of nations, the experience of the world,
the achievements and the possibilities of mankind. It is books that reveal to us ideas and
images almost above ourselves, and go far to open for us the gates of the invisible. "A river
of thought," says Emerson, "is continually flowing out of the invisible world into the mind
of man:" and we may add that books contain the most fruitful and permanent of the currents
of that mighty river.

I am not disposed to celebrate the praises of all books, nor to recommend to readers of any
age a habit of indiscriminate reading: but for the books which are true helpers and teachers,
the thoughts of the best poets, historians, publicists, philosophers, orators,--if their value
is not real, then there are no realities in the world.

Very true is it, nevertheless, that the many-sided man cannot be cultivated by books alone.
One may learn by heart whole libraries, and yet be profoundly unacquainted with the face of
nature, or the life of man. The pale student who gives himself wholly to books pays the penalty
by losing that robust energy of character, that sympathy with his kind, that keen sense of
the charms of earth and sky, that are essential to complete development. "The world's great
men," says Oliver Wendell Holmes, "have not commonly been great scholars, nor its scholars
great men." To know what other men have said about things is not always the most important
part of knowledge. There is nothing that can dispense us from the independent use of our own
faculties. Meditation and observation are more valuable than mere absorption; and knowledge
itself is not wisdom. The true way to use books is to make them our servants--not our masters.
Very helpful, cheering, and profitable will they become, when they fall naturally into our
daily life and growth--when they tally with the moods of the mind.

The habits and methods of readers are as various as those of authors. Thus, there are some
readers who gobble a book, as Boswell tells us Dr. Johnson used to gobble his dinner--eagerly,
and with a furious appetite, suggestive of dyspepsia, and the non-assimilation of food. Then
there are slow readers, who plod along through a book, sentence by sentence, putting in a mark
conscientiously where they left off to-day, so as to begin at the self-same spot to-morrow;
fast readers, who gallop through a book, as you would ride a flying bicycle on a race; drowsy
readers, to whom a book is only a covert apology for a nap, and who pretend to be reading Macaulay
or Herbert Spencer only to dream between the leaves; sensitive readers, who cannot abide the
least noise or interruption when reading, and to whose nerves a foot-fall or a conversation
is an exquisite torture; absorbed readers, who are so pre-occupied with their pursuit that
they forget all their surroundings--the time of day, the presence or the voices of others,
the hour for dinner, and even their own existence; credulous readers, who believe everything
they read because it is printed in a book, and swallow without winking the most colossal lying;
critical and captious readers, who quarrel with the blunders or the beliefs of their author,
and who cannot refrain from calling him an idiot or an ass--and perhaps even writing him down
so on his own pages; admiring and receptive readers, who find fresh beauties in a favorite
author every time they peruse him, and even discover beautiful swans in the stupidest geese
that ever cackled along the flowery meads of literature; reverent readers, who treat a book
as they would treat a great and good man, considerately and politely, carefully brushing the
dust from a beloved volume with the sleeve, or tenderly lifting a book fallen to the floor,
as if they thought it suffered, or felt harm; careless and rough readers, who will turn down
books on their faces to keep the place, tumble them over in heaps, cram them into shelves never
meant for them, scribble upon the margins, dogs-ear the leaves, or even cut them with their
fingers--all brutal and intolerable practices, totally unworthy of any one pretending to civilization.

To those who have well learned the art of reading, what inexhaustible delights does the world
of books contain!

There are pleasures that perish in the using; but the pleasure which the art of reading carries
with it is perennial. He who can feast on the intellectual spoils of centuries need fear neither
poverty nor hunger. In the society of those immortals who still rule our spirits from their
urns, we become assured that though heaven and earth may pass away, no true thought shall ever
pass away.

The great orator, on whose lips once hung multitudes, dies and is forgotten; the great actor
passes swiftly off the stage, and is seen no more; the great singer, whose voice charmed listening
crowds by its melody, is hushed in the grave; the great preacher survives but a single generation
in the memory of men; all we who now live and act must be, in a little while, with yesterday's
seven thousand years:--but the book of the great writer lives on and on, inspiring age after
age of readers, and has in it more of the seeds of immortality than anything upon earth.

CHAPTER 10.

AIDS TO READERS.

There is one venerable Latin proverb which deserves a wider recognition than it has yet received.
It is to the effect that "the best part of learning is to know where to find things." From
lack of this knowledge, an unskilled reader will often spend hours in vainly searching for
what a skilled reader can find in less than five minutes. Now, librarians are presumed to be
skilled readers, although it would not be quite safe to apply this designation to all of that
profession, since there are those among librarians, or their assistants, who are mere novices
in the art of reading to advantage. Manifestly, one cannot teach what he does not know: and
so the librarian who has not previously travelled the same road, will not be able to guide
the inquiring reader who asks him to point out the way. But if the way has once been found,
the librarian, with only a fairly good memory, kept in constant exercise by his vocation, can
find it again. Still more surely, if he has been through it many times, will he know it intuitively,
the moment any question is asked about it.

