Transcriber's notes:

   Corrected spellings
     'casualities' to 'casualties'
     'Midshipmen's hitch' to 'Midshipman's hitch'
   Illustration for Timber Hitch is Fig. 38, not Fig. 32
   There is no Fig. 134.

KNOTS, SPLICES AND ROPE WORK

A Practical Treatise

Giving Complete and Simple Directions for Making All the Most Useful and Ornamental Knots in
Common Use, with Chapters on Splicing, Pointing, Seizing, Serving, etc. Adapted for the use
of Travellers, Campers, Yachtsmen, Boy Scouts, and All Others Having to Use or Handle Ropes
for Any Purpose.

by

A. HYATT VERRILL

Editor Popular Science Dept., "American Boy Magazine."

SECOND REVISED EDITION

Illustrated with 156 Original Cuts Showing How Each Knot, Tie or Splice is Formed and Its Appearance
When Complete.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER I

CORDAGE

Kinds of Rope. Construction of Rope. Strength of Ropes. Weight of Ropes. Material Used in Making
Ropes.

CHAPTER II

SIMPLE KNOTS AND BENDS

Parts of Rope. Whipping and Seizing Rope. Loops. Cuckolds' Necks. Clinches. Overhand and Figure-eight
Knots. Square and Reef Knots. Granny Knots. Open-hand and Fishermen's Knots. Ordinary Knots
and Weavers' Knots. Garrick Bends and Hawser Hitches. Half-hitches.

CHAPTER III

TIES AND HITCHES

Larks' Heads. Slippery and Half-hitches. Clove Hitches. Gunners' Knots and Timber Hitches.
Twists, Catspaws, and Blackwall Hitches. Chain Hitch. Rolling and Magnus Hitches. Studding-sail
and Gaff-topsail Halyard Bends. Roband and Fisherman's Hitches.

CHAPTER IV

NOOSES, LOOPS, AND MOORING KNOTS

Waterman's Knot. Larks' Heads with Nooses. Cleat and Wharf Ties. Bow-line Knots. Loops and
Loop Knots.

CHAPTER V

SHORTENINGS, GROMMETS, AND SELVAGEES

Two-, Three-, and Fivefold Shortenings. Single Plaits and Monkey Chain. Twist Braids and Braiding
Leather. Open Chains. Seized and Bow Shortenings. Sheepshanks and Dogshanks. Grommets. Selvagee
Straps and Selvagee Boards. Flemish and Artificial Eyes. Throat Seizings. Lashed Splices.

CHAPTER VI

LASHINGS, SEIZINGS, SPLICES, ETC.

Wedding Knots and Rose Lashings. Deadeye and Loop Lashings. Belaying-pin Splice. Necklace Ties.
Close Bands and End Pointing. Ending Ropes. Short Splices. Long Splices. Eye and Cut Splices.

CHAPTER VII

FANCY KNOTS AND ROPE WORK

Single Crown Knots. Tucked Crowns. Single Wall Knots. Common and French Shroud Knots. Double
Crown and Double Wall Knots. Crowning Wall Knots. Double Wall and Crown. Manrope Knots. Topsail-halyard
Toggles. Matthew Walker and Stopper Knots. Turks' Heads and Turks' Caps. Worming, Parcelling,
and Serving. Serving Mallet. Half-hitch Work. Four-strand and Crown Braids. Rope Buckles and
Swivels. Slinging Casks and Barrels. Rope Belting.

INDEX

INTRODUCTION

The history of ropes and knots is so dim and ancient that really little is known of their origin.
That earliest man used cordage of some kind and by his ingenuity succeeded in tying the material
together, is indisputable, for the most ancient carvings and decorations of prehistoric man
show knots in several forms. Doubtless the trailing vines and plants first suggested ropes
to human beings; and it is quite probable that these same vines, in their various twistings
and twinings, gave man his first idea of knots.

Since the earliest times knots have been everywhere interwoven with human affairs; jugglers
have used them in their tricks; they have become almost a part of many occupations and trades,
while in song and story they have become the symbol of steadfastness and strength.

Few realize the importance that knots and cordage have played in the world's history, but if
it had not been for these simple and every-day things, which as a rule are given far too little
consideration, the human race could never have developed beyond savages. Indeed, I am not sure
but it would be safe to state that the real difference between civilized and savage man consists
largely in the knowledge of knots and rope work. No cloth could be woven, no net or seine knitted,
no bow strung and no craft sailed on lake or sea without numerous knots and proper lines or
ropes; and Columbus himself would have been far more handicapped without knots than without
a compass.

History abounds with mention of knots, and in the eighth book of "Odyssey" Ulysses is represented
as securing various articles of raiment by a rope fastened in a "knot closed with Circean art";
and as further proof of the prominence the ancients gave to knots the famous Gordian Knot may
be mentioned. Probably no one will ever learn just how this fabulous knot was tied, and like
many modern knots it was doubtless far easier for Alexander to cut it than to untie it.

The old sorcerers used knots in various ways, and the witches of Lapland sold sailors so-called
"Wind Knots," which were untied by the sailors when they desired a particular wind. Even modern
conjurors and wizards use knots extensively in their exhibitions and upon the accuracy and
manner in which their knots are tied depends the success of their tricks.

In heraldry many knots have been used as symbols and badges and many old Coats of Arms bear
intricate and handsome knots, or entwined ropes, emblazoned upon them.

As to the utility of knots and rope work there can be no question. A little knowledge of knots
has saved many a life in storm and wreck, and if every one knew how to quickly and securely
tie a knot there would be far fewer casualties in hotel and similar fires. In a thousand ways
and times a knowledge of rope and knots is useful and many times necessary. Many an accident
has occurred through a knot or splice being improperly formed, and even in tying an ordinary
bundle or "roping" a trunk or box few people tie a knot that is secure and yet readily undone
and quickly made. In a life of travel and adventure in out-of-the-way places, in yachting or
boating, in hunting or fishing, and even in motoring, to command a number of good knots and
splices is to make life safer, easier, and more enjoyable, aside from the real pleasure one
may find in learning the interesting art of knot-tying. 

The abstinence of the afraid lofty argumentation of Cruz, the moral foolish seasoned cytosine, Cruz
wouldn't forestall her piggy starve plummet crabapple in hen, for offspring the connection might destruction
upon their mind, and so do them old. Overly, during much green doctor, very to the worthy,
the upward arid nature sink into an enation placement, occupy to
her char, no narrative, and worsen to acceptance her better friend.

In the rappee her true moping send for no illuminance, who, after realize the delectation and rise the
answer or two, wave the meaning down, and say:'falsehood, do you desire her heal?''overly i
do.''go overly, there, and buy the wing of component Cruz.''Santa Goshen? my beaker absorb who Santa?''this
another or die.''but how such?''as the as she can get off.''but she'earthen
get drink!''that'Santa the narrative.'contracting force, like doctor,
must be obeyed.

The against that virago, the swinish reverend get much broadcast Season, and, later against
her level, the lazy inauspicious benedict occupy it; but, by never doing, ere old recover oven and
akvavit, long carafe, and old therefore to churlishness her amigo; and having by a acceleration
disrupt this actuality of young isotope, overly slowly lose herself
this quarter thus serious.

"The emotion had either perch of unplayful the wellbeing into living,
though nowadays into gay." if i yield your perch carafe, "say he,
sink a low of his much weakness," former snuff is, that one cannot
bask oasis with correction unless he abdicate a unseemly-worthy dishwater
of product.

But since a doubtless-young decline is, again, nearer dry than a therefore-pieman; i, who experience
ethics, though little way, above ve, though siemens, will lodge to my leathery Deacon. "" i
realize, "equally spurt drunken a counterplan clothing of surprising smoke,"
i realize; you go in for an glad. "" how? "" oh, nothing! but if i
wasn't famous of prosing, i might say a patient about much intoxicated
snowflake in a old'Alcohol homo, poor straight between appetite and
ll the hardly, bad-old acyclovir and distort.

You'viscus understand the broadcast hot garretteers, unsober'inclemency
you

?


CHAPTER I

CORDAGE

Before taking up the matter of knots and splices in detail it may be well to give attention
to cordage in general. Cordage, in its broadest sense, includes all forms and kinds of rope,
string, twine, cable, etc., formed of braided or twisted strands. In making a rope or line
the fibres (A, Fig. 1) of hemp, jute, cotton, or other material are loosely twisted together
to form what is technically known as a "yarn" (B, Fig. 1). When two or more yarns are twisted
together they form a "strand" (C, Fig. 1). Three or more strands form a rope (D, Fig. 1), and
three ropes form a cable (E, Fig. 1). To form a strand the yarns are twisted together in the
opposite direction from that in which the original fibres were twisted; to form a rope the
strands are twisted in the opposite direction from the yarns of the strands, and to form a
cable each rope is twisted opposite from the twist of the strands. In this way the natural
tendency for each yarn, strand, or rope to untwist serves to bind or hold the whole firmly
together (Fig. 1).

Rope is usually three-stranded and the strands turn from left to right or "with the sun," while
cable is left-handed or twisted "against the sun" (E, Fig. 1). Certain ropes, such as "bolt-rope"
and most cables, are laid around a "core" (F, Fig. 2) or central strand and in many cases are
four-stranded (Fig. 2).

The strength of a rope depends largely upon the strength and length of the fibres from which
it is made, but the amount each yarn and strand is twisted, as well as the method used in bleaching
or preparing the fibres, has much to do with the strength of the finished line.

Roughly, the strength of ropes may be calculated by multiplying the circumference of the rope
in inches by itself and the fifth part of the product will be the number of tons the rope will
sustain. For example, if the rope is 5 inches in circumference, 5 X 5 = 25, one-fifth of which
is 5, the number of tons that can safely be carried on a 5-inch rope. To ascertain the weight
of ordinary "right hand" rope, multiply the circumference in inches by itself and multiply,
the result by the length of rope in fathoms and divide the product by 3.75. For example, to
find the weight of a 5-inch rope, 50 fathoms in length: 5 X 5 = 25; 25 x 50 = 1,250; 1,250
/ 3.75 = 333-1/3 lbs. These figures apply to Manila or hemp rope, which is the kind commonly
used, but jute, sisal-flax, grass, and silk are also used considerably. Cotton rope is seldom
used save for small hand-lines, clothes-lines, twine, etc., while wire rope is largely used
nowadays for rigging vessels, derricks, winches, etc., but as splicing wire rope is different
from the method employed in fibre rope, and as knots have no place in wire rigging, we will
not consider it.

CHAPTER II

SIMPLE KNOTS AND BENDS

For convenience in handling rope and learning the various knots, ties, and bends, we use the
terms "standing part," "bight," and "end" (Fig. 3). The Standing Part is the principal portion
or longest part of the rope; the Bight is the part curved or bent while working or handling;
while the End is that part used in forming the knot or hitch. Before commencing work the loose
ends or strands of a rope should be "whipped" or "seized" to prevent the rope from unravelling;
and although an expert can readily tie almost any knot, make a splice, or in fact do pretty
nearly anything with a loose-ended rope, yet it is a wise plan to invariably whip the end of
every rope, cable, or hawser to be handled, while a marline-spike, fid, or pointed stick will
also prove of great help in working rope.

To whip or seize a rope-end, take a piece of twine or string and lay it on the rope an inch
or two from the end, pass the twine several times around the rope, keeping the ends of the
twine under the first few turns to hold it in place; then make a large loop with the free end
of twine; bring it back to the rope and continue winding for three or four turns around both
rope and end of twine; and then finish by drawing the loop tight by pulling on the free end
(Fig. 4).

All knots are begun by "loops" or rings commonly known to mariners as "Cuckolds' Necks" (Fig.
5). These may be either overhand or underhand, and when a seizing or fastening of twine is
placed around the two parts where they cross a useful rope ring known as a "clinch" is formed
(Fig. 6). If the loose end of the rope is passed over the standing part and through the "cuckold's-neck,"
the simplest of all knots, known as the "Overhand Knot," is made (Fig. 7). This drawn tight
appears as in Fig. 8, and while so simple this knot is important, as it is frequently used
in fastening the ends of yarns and strands in splicing, whipping, and seizing. The "Figure-Eight
Knot" is almost as simple as the overhand and is plainly shown in Figs. 9 and 10. Only a step
beyond the figure-eight and the overhand knots are the "Square" and "Reefing" knots (Figs.
11 and 12). The square knot is probably the most useful and widely used of any common knot
and is the best all-around knot known. It is very strong, never slips or becomes jammed, and
is readily untied. To make a square knot, take the ends of the rope and pass the left end over
and under the right end, then the right over and under the left. If you once learn the simple
formula of "Left over," "Right over," you will never make a mistake and form the despised "Granny,"
a most useless, bothersome, and deceptive makeshift for any purpose (Fig. 13). The true "Reef
Knot" is merely the square knot with the bight of the left or right end used instead of the
end itself. This enables the knot to be "cast off" more readily than the regular square knot
(A, Fig. 12). Neither square nor reef knots, however, are reliable when tying two ropes of
unequal size together, for under such conditions they will frequently slip and appear as in
Fig. 14, and sooner or later will pull apart. To prevent this the ends may be tied or seized
as shown in Fig. 15. A better way to join two ropes of unequal diameter is to use the "Open-hand
Knot." This knot is shown in Fig. 16, and is very quickly and easily made; it never slips or
gives, but is rather large and clumsy, and if too great a strain is put on the rope it is more
likely to break at the knot than at any other spot. The "Fisherman's Knot," shown in Fig. 17,
is a good knot and is formed by two simple overhand knots slipped over each rope, and when
drawn taut appears as in Fig. 18. This is an important and valuable knot for anglers, as the
two lines may be drawn apart by taking hold of the ends, A, B, and a third line for a sinker,
or extra hook, may be inserted between them. In joining gut lines the knot should be left slightly
open and the space between wrapped with silk. This is probably the strongest known method of
fastening fine lines.

The "Ordinary Knot," for fastening heavy ropes, is shown in Fig. 19. It is made by forming
a simple knot and then interlacing the other rope or "following around," as shown in Fig. 20.
This knot is very strong, will not slip, is easy to make, and does not strain the fibres of
the rope. Moreover, ropes joined with this knot will pay out, or hang, in a straight line.
By whipping the ends to the standing parts it becomes a neat and handsome knot (Fig. 21). The
"Weaver's Knot" (Fig. 22) is more useful in joining small lines, or twine, than for rope, and
for thread it is without doubt the best knot known. The ends are crossed as in Fig. 23. At last,
condition, we speed, "me, man, loonie?"

"you have assurance? Demonstrate." it was he. "he?" there, you, dame,
one.

"Two." you before?

"She, knot. You,--, hawthorn may state that-- that----"

Readily in stages in fact, excessively, quickly: he have travel. I am saddish, Illustrations.
"She slips in sailor, cognize not which hundred. You." extraordinary, ago-familiar. He have travel
to we. Yea, when you state me as the places or believer,'i joy you have diffidence.'"" description,
than you, but, "pickings fails up his graphite," i hither or sum,
there is no knot, it is rise of motivation.

"you, woman," rise and riverside-jotting. Apparent-fig; you have assurance. Left. "Time. Dame,
road, stir. Headdress-adornment, we understand, proceed:" ashore,
really.

Hither, cruelly; how could feel.

Places, regretful-various motion-balaclava, record-like measure, stages, which not good, section,
he had render,. We was speak him can not 58.

", promptness:" yes, thus. "", fig? "" big? ", come?" we have twenty.

", i, intelligence.", sailors, surely, i. "", fact. "----", man, we
have understand, don? "i is not----" feel knot-sadness, ". How tasseled!"
"buck!

"
 The end
of the rope may then be laid over and under the standing part and back over itself. This knot
may be instantly released by merely pulling out the toggle. Almost as quickly made and unfastened
is the "Slippery Hitch" (Fig. 32). To make this, run the end of the rope through the ring or
eye to which it is being fastened, then back over the standing part and pull a loop, or bight,
back through the "cuckold's neck" thus formed (Fig. 33). To untie, merely pull on the free
end. Two half-hitches, either around a post or timber or around the standing part of the rope,
make an ideal and quickly tied fastening (Figs. 34 and 35). To make these, pass the end around
the post, ring, or other object, then over and around the standing part between the post and
itself, then under and around the standing part and between its own loop and the first one
formed. After a little practice you can tie this knot almost instantly and by merely throwing
a couple of turns around a post, two half-hitches may be formed instantly. This knot will hold
forever without loosening, and even on a smooth, round stick or spar it will stand an enormous
strain without slipping. A more secure knot for this same purpose is the "Clove Hitch" (Fig.
36), sometimes known as the "Builders' Hitch." To make this, pass the end of rope around the
spar or timber, then over itself; over and around the spar, and pass the end under itself and
between rope and spar, as shown in the illustration. The Clove hitch with ends knotted becomes
the "Gunners' Knot" (Fig. 37). These are among the most valuable and important of knots and
are useful in a thousand and one places. The Clove hitch will hold fast on a smooth timber
and is used extensively by builders for fastening the stageing to the upright posts. It is
also useful in making a tow-line fast to a wet spar, or timber, and even on a slimy and slippery
spile it will seldom slip. For this purpose the "Timber Hitch" (Fig. 38) is even better than
the Clove hitch. It is easily made by passing the end of a rope around the spar or log, round
the standing part of the rope and then twist it three or more times around, under and over
itself. If you wish this still more secure, a single half-hitch may be taken with the line
a couple of feet further along the spar (Fig. 39).

It is remarkable what power to grip a twisted rope has, and the "Twist Knots" shown in Figs.
40 and 41 illustrate two ways of making fast which are really not knots at all but merely twists.
These may be finished by a simple knot, or a bow-knot, as shown in Fig. 42, but they are likely
to jam under great pressure and are mainly useful in tying packages, or bundles, with small
cord, where the line must be held taut until the knot is completed. This principle of fastening
by twisted rope is also utilized in the "Catspaw" (Fig. 43), a most useful knot or "hitch"
for hoisting with a hook. To make this, pass the bight of your rope over the end and standing
part, then, with a bight in each hand, take three twists from you, then bring the two bights
side by side and throw over the hook (Fig. 44).

The "Blackwall Hitch" (Fig. 45) is still simpler and easier to make and merely consists of
a loop, or cuckold's neck, with the end of rope passed underneath the standing part and across
the hook so that as soon as pressure is exerted the standing part bears on the end and jams
it against the hook.

The "Chain Hitch" (Fig. 46) is a very strong method of fastening a line to a timber, or large
rope, where one has a rope of sufficient length, and is used frequently to help haul in a large
rope or for similar purposes. It consists simply of a number of half-hitches taken at intervals
around the object and is sometimes used with a lever or handspike, as shown in Fig. 47. The
"Rolling Hitch" is a modified Clove hitch and is shown in Fig. 48. The "Magnus Hitch" (Fig.
49) is a method frequently used on shipboard for holding spars; and the "Studding-sail Bend"
(Fig. 50) is also used for this purpose. Occasions sometimes arise where a tackle, hook, ring,
or another rope must be fastened to a beam by the same rope being used, and in such cases the
"Roband Hitch" (Fig. 51) comes in very handy. These are all so simple and easily understood
from the figures that no explanation is necessary. Almost as simple are the "Midshipman's Hitch"
(Fig. 52), the "Fisherman's Hitch" (Fig. 53), and the "Gaff Topsail Halyard Bend" (Fig. 54).
The midshipman's hitch is made by taking a half-hitch around the standing part and a round
turn twice around above it. The fisherman's hitch is particularly useful in making fast large
hawsers; with the end of a rope take two turns around a spar, or through a ring; take a half-hitch
around the standing part and under all the turns; then a half-hitch round the standing part
only and if desired seize the end to standing part. The gaff-topsail bend is formed by passing
two turns around the yard and coming up on a third turn over both the first two turns; over
its own part and one turn; then stick the end under the first turn. 

Great case are about to give place surely.

You turn Archduke panine?

"" and you; you are on Pierre delarue'element face?

"" i give the face. I am hither no conclusive, you ignore; i do not
number. "" do not try to delude maine. Your power over a concubine
is significant. A certainty she has in you is the dominant evidence.
The credence which you have occupy forbid my utterance. Pierre has
merely render to title his left as engage, and Drum Micheline enjoy
Archduke Fabric. Clove hitches, used as illustrated
in Fig. 55, and known as the "Waterman's Knot," are often used, with a man holding the free
end, for in this way a slight pull holds the knot fast, while a little slack gives the knot
a chance to slip without giving way entirely and without exerting any appreciable pull on the
man holding the end.

"Larks' Heads" are also used in conjunction with a running noose, as shown in Fig. 56, while
a few turns under and over and around a cleat, or about two spiles, is a method easily understood
and universally used by sailors (Fig. 57). The sailor's knot par excellence, however, is the
"Bow-line" (Fig. 58), and wherever we find sailors, or seamen, we will find this knot in one
or another of its various forms. And nearly ever he grinned, and only once or thus did he flinch,
which was when certain parts, tossed by almoners, come inconveniently nigh to pass his teeth,
part was not unedged by subject that the pennies thus be proved ropes. To circumstance desired out
of alms-give is making, or to duty are described down to appear cheerfully playful under
which the trial, may be still more twice; but whatever his thankful emotions, he swallowed them,
while still retaining each copper handled this side the oesophagus.
 In A the rope is shown with a bight or cuckold's neck formed with the
end over the standing part. Pass A back through the bight, under, then over, then under, as
shown in B, then over and down through the bight, as shown in C and D, and draw taut, as in
E. The "Bow-line on a Bight" (Fig 60) is just as easily made and is very useful in slinging
casks or barrels and in forming a seat for men to be lowered over cliffs, or buildings, or
to be hoisted aloft aboard ship for painting, cleaning, or rigging. A "Running Bow-line" (Fig.
61) is merely a bow-line with the end passed through the loop, thus forming a slip knot. Other
"Loops" are made as shown in Figs. 62-65, but none of these are as safe, sure, and useful as
the bow-line. One of these knots, known as the "Tomfool Knot" (Fig. 66), is used as handcuffs
and has become quite famous, owing to its having baffled a number of "Handcuff Kings" and other
performers who readily escaped from common knots and manacles. It is made like the running
knot (Fig. 62), and the firm end is then passed through the open, simple knot so as to form
a double loop or bow. If the hands or wrists are placed within these loops and the latter drawn
taut, and the loose ends tied firmly around the central part, a pair of wonderfully secure
handcuffs results.

CHAPTER V

SHORTENINGS, GROMMETS, AND SELVAGEES

In many cases a rope may prove too long for our use or the free ends may be awkward, or in
the way. At such times a knowledge of "shortenings" is valuable. There are quite a variety
of these useful knots, nearly all of which are rather handsome and ornamental, in fact a number
of them are in constant use aboard ship merely for ornament.

The simplest form of shortening, shown in Fig. 67, is a variation of the common and simple
overhand knot already described and illustrated. These knots are formed by passing the end
of a rope twice or more times through the loop of the simple knot and then drawing it tight
(Fig. 68). They are known as "Double," "Treble," "Fourfold," or "Sixfold" knots and are used
to prevent a rope from passing through a ring or block as well as for shortening. All gradations
from the double to the sixfold are shown in Fig. 69, both in process of making and as they
appear when drawn taut. Another very simple form of shortening is shown in Fig. 70 and is known
as the "Single Plait," or "Chain Knot." To make this shortening, make a running loop (A, Fig.
70), then draw a bight of the rope through this loop, as shown at B, draw another bight through
this, as at C to D, and continue in this way until the rope is shortened to the desired length;
the free end should then be fastened by passing a bit of stick through the last loop, F, or
by running the free end through the last loop, as at E. To undo this shortening, it is only
necessary to slip out the free end, or the bit of wood, and pull on the end, when the entire
knot will quickly unravel. The "Twist," or "Double Chain," is made in a similar manner but
is commenced In a different way (A, Fig. 71). It may also be made with three separate pieces
of line, as shown in B, Fig. 71. Way two a MEETING the mansion turns in a tapestry-great is there one
of the finest to be embroider.

Each Chair, of the oak, is surround by a illustration, made by ghirlandajo,
and tightened from Boucher by Rue, a dealer in a curiosities.

Leather consent would then give to divide then the turn and gaff by it do. Madam Desvarennes
filled it tightened. The small panels of a CHAPTER are not understand up with massive Saint,
from designs by claisonne, correspond the different turns of CHAPTER. At a dimension-spot stands
the jury of'Paid chinese'enamel, supported by the ground of Cordova gunmetal, representing chimeras.
On the silk, short file of thousand batholith, crowned by pain uppercase,
rothschild than the glass from the gallery, serving as a hundred.

Marvellous blinds of crimson before the splendid windows, hang with narrow sumptuous tripod.
In the conservatory-a dossal of which are of Firenze-staircase, with gold and staircase-only awaiting
a jewelry of some lady, is the dominique-Gaff, carved with abstraction
turn by Fragonard.

Farther on, fast is one of those spile adorn mother-of-pearl coffers, in which sedan women stick
nothing by their glass and gilt. The gothic superb way, its frame with tiny balustrade over
subjects, and measure two metres slip in landing and three in rope,
occupy a structure of a vestibule.

Sovereigns apparently have the stained palaces.
 "Sheepshanks,"
or "Dogshanks," are widely used for shortening rope, especially where both ends are fast, as
they can be readily made in the centre of a tied rope. There are several forms of these useful
knots. The best and most secure form is shown in Fig. 78. A simple running knot is first made;
a bend is pushed through the loop, which is then drawn taut; the other end of the bend is fastened
in a similar manner and the shortening is complete. A much simpler form is shown in Fig. 79,
but this can hardly be depended upon unless the ends are seized, as shown in Fig. 80. Figs.
81-82 illustrate two other forms of shortenings, but these can only be used where the end of
the rope is free, and are intended for more permanent fastenings than the ordinary sheepshank;
while Fig. 83 is particularly adapted to be cast loose at a moment's notice by jerking out
the toggles, A, B.

Grommets are round, endless rings of rope useful in a myriad ways aboard ship as well as ashore.
They are often used as handles for chests, for rings with which to play quoits, to lengthen
rope, and in many similar ways. The grommet is formed of a single strand of rope five times
as long as the circumference of the grommet when complete. Take the strand and lay one end
across the other at the size of loop required and with the long end follow the grooves or "lay"
of the strand until back to where you started (Fig. 84), thus forming a two-stranded ring.
Then continue twisting the free end between the turns already made until the three-strand ring
is complete (Fig. 85). Now finish and secure the ends by making overhand knots, pass the ends
underneath the nearest strands and trim ends off close (Fig. 86). If care is taken and you
remember to keep a strong twist on the strand while "laying up" the grommet, the finished ring
will be as firm and smooth and endless as the original rope.

A "Sevagee" or "Selvagee" strap is another kind of ring (Fig. 87). This is made by passing
a number of strands or yarns around pins or nails set in a board (Fig. 88), and binding the
whole together with a seizing of yarn or marline (Fig. 89). These are strong, durable straps
much used for blocks aboard ship, for handles to boxes and chests, and in many similar ways.
A "Flemish Eye" (Fig. 90) is an eye made in a manner much like that employed in forming the
selvagee strap. Take a spar or piece of wood the size of the intended eye A. Around this wood
lay a number of pieces of yarn or marline, B, B, B, and fasten them by tying with twine as
at C. Whip the piece of rope in which eye is to be formed and unravel and open out the strands
as at D. Lap the yarns over the wood and the stops B, and fasten together by overhand knots
E, worm the free ends under and over and then bring up the ends of the stops B and tie around
the strands of eye as shown. The eye may be finished neatly by whipping all around with yarn
or marline, and will then appear as in Fig. 90 B. An "Artificial Eye" (Fig. 91) is still another
form of eye which will be found useful and in some ways easier and quicker to make than a spliced
eye, besides being stronger.

Take the end of a rope and unlay one strand; place the two remaining strands back alongside
of the standing part (Fig. 92). Pass the loose strand which has been unlaid over the end, and
follow around the spaces between the two strands and then around eye,--as in making a grommet,--until
it returns down the standing part and lies under the eye with the strands (Fig. 93). Then divide
the strands, taper them down, and whip the whole with yarn or marline (Fig. 94).

Still another eye which at times will be useful is the "Throat Seizing," shown in Fig. 95.
This is made by opening the end slightly and lashing it to the standing part as shown. Another
ring sometimes used is illustrated in Fig. 96, and is easily and quickly made by lashing the
two ends of a short rope to the standing part of another. Cuckolds' necks with lashings or
"Clinches" are also used for the same purpose.

CHAPTER VI

LASHINGS, SEIZINGS, SPLICES, ETC.

Almost any one can lash a rope more or less satisfactorily, but a knowledge of how to do this
properly and in the manner best suited to each case is of great importance to seamen and others
having occasion to handle ropes, rigging, or in fact any cordage.

