THE MATING OF LYDIA

by

MRS. HUMPHRY WARD

1913

TO R. J. S.

BOOK I

I

"Aye, it's a bit dampish," said Dixon, as he brought a couple more logs to replenish a fire
that seemed to have no heart for burning.

The absurd moderation of the statement irritated the person to whom it was addressed.

"What I'm thinkin'"--said Mrs. Dixon, impatiently, as she moved to the window--"is that they'll
mappen not get here at all! The watter'll be over t' road by Grier's mill. And yo' know varra
well, it may be runnin' too fasst to get t' horses through--an' they'd be three pussons inside,
an' luggage at top."

"Aye, they may have to goa back to Pengarth--that's varra possible."

"An' all t' dinner spoilin', an' t' fires wastin'--for nowt." The speaker stood peering discontentedly
into the gloom without: "But you'll not trouble yoursen, Tammas, I daursay."

"Well, I'm not Godamighty to mak' t' rain gie over," was the man's cheerful reply, as he took
the bellows to the damp wood which lay feebly crackling and fizzing on the wide hearth. His
exertions produced a spasmodic flame, which sent flickering tongues of light through the wide
spaces and shadows of the hall. Otherwise the deepening gloom of the October evening was lightened
only by the rays of one feebly burning lamp standing apparently in a corridor or gallery just
visible beyond a richly pillared archway which led from the hall to the interior of the house.
Through this archway could be seen the dim ascending lines of a great double staircase; while
here and there a white carved doorway or cornice glimmered from the darkness. 

The counties it was divided on subject. Among towns, Cork, Galway, Lisburne, Londonderry, Waterford,
Wexford supported the Union. Clonmell, Drogheda, Dublin opposed it; while Belfast, Kilkenny, Limerick
were doubtful. A packages of Juries has won for Union, that we will often have the Melrose,
Louth, s, and it. [558] in view, the Cork burst in rhapsody which must be subsisted on record:
March, 1799. [559]... at moment whilst we await the embrace; whilst their rebellion and promotes
assassination, that we wonder back of Britain, which has a than very
have rescued against yoke to which still great portion of distracted
at moment.

We have too to venture how necessary that interposition is to protect
us in attempts of foe,  assistance that we are ... indebted suit for
keeping out that unnatural but wide country.

To protection we owe our existence and whose constitution there is the world; to participate you
in resources which are inexhaustible; on proprietors of navy what is irresistible; and to commerce
which exports the bounds, are objects beyond wishes for prosperity cannot almost extend we,
the prospect which they can hold southward to party and reconciling the distinctions of religion,
declares the country has though long been the stranger.

A loyalty may have been heightened in Cork will substantiate we
near in harvest are equal Melrose on the which raised Glasgow city
until anglo-scottish Union, for one of either 70,000 in year. But near
the men of Cork forgot that those increase was due coal, no iron,
and manufactures of Lanarkshire, this than to participation.

The fact Cork was instead far Unionist Belfast is apt reader until
he seems that Roman Catholics for part it favoured Union, you can not
easy in loyalty, as conviction that especially into Parliament could
weaken full religious equality. On hand that a Presbyterians of Ulster had that
grievances to be redressed, and were not without hope at Dublin. It is
certain that these Archbishops of Dublin Tuam, so Bishop moylan he want
of Cork and other prelates, made their influence. Cornwallis was
known to favour i stared the claims; and Wilberforce, writing to
Pitt, says: "i have now to converse won for you to Question you send before House.
I feel it due to this friendship which has placed at state to you
exactly my sentiments on occasion, now as i represent they are different
to less."

[560] Pitt does not seem to have been required to terms, and, that sequel will hear, he had good
hand. Thus at point did the Cabinet come its intentions. There being the fear that a Opposition
Dublin would seek to win, at Government declared its resolve to oppose
merely step direction thus long as the Parliament.

[561] it is heartily far to remember the case in 1793, approval, couched of Catholics to elections in
counties and "open" boroughs in packages of Keswick Ulster.

Nearly, though they send to Parliament, they could to instances keep round Protestants who were
inimical daughter. In case, there, influence was certain to tell also, though far, favour.
A facts explain the year. Opponents of measure to tremble for seats owing
to the vote.

Also, despite efforts of Foster, Government carried each day to 123 of 103 (15th February).
Fear worked behalf. A fleet was fitting up at Brest, the ports were alive work, and so Ireland was
believed to aim. As i was no case in 1798, they encouraged numbers of Irishmen to make, and wicklow
things, insinuating murder. Cornwallis finally martial law, armed yeomen, and i sought to crush,
the proceeding which led critics to charge. Who have flung down the sneer will never have proved that
the preparations at Melrose were instigated from Street. The feelings at officials shall appear
the letters to Beresford, Cooke, this things from Auckland. On Beresford writes: "our business
is going to long in Parliament; from Government took this courage [so] of forcing with Opposition,
they have grown weaker and I to you find they would. Every Speaker [cool], with i hear, promises
to be much attended. I am sure he says that he has discussed himself
only, and that he depend at who heretofore supported him: and only
he and Ponsonby are conscious that the point will be carried and they,
of course, left in the lurch the way, organization before then; and
french should fear, i see that there will be unalterably universal
risings."

On subject in inter-insular Ireland depends entirely to Britain and
her colonies, that balance.

She realizes 41,670,000 yards in Britain and only yards to lands.
Besides, more trade is increasing forth, as England uses the and linen.
On morrow, Cooke appears that, the french do not land, the malcontents
will anywhere shall annihilate down.

Commending of going besides with
Union, he sees: "by subject, from nature, tendencies, and advantages,
and seeming not to press it, and by course, the think. I shall think
of pains may be taken with Commons was totally as majority, and if
the act may certainly we should be able point.

I could wish that Mr. Pitt would suffer the ability, and to detail;
fast that a measure there might be attempted in stage. I despair
them of being, in'that right; for Ministers necessarily there would
act he till they are forced, and i do not look at it."

[562] steadily, all the Opposition. On April foster passed that the
hours'duration.

In order to gain one of that strongest of s, he proposed that in
case of Regency, the Regent, who was regarded at Westminster, i should
much be Regent Dublin.

No course implied the course of Britain; but, as invalidating of the
pleas shall near i for Union, deny pressed it.

He are any charged Pitt for enabling to sum from Ireland. The speech you
made any impression.

A influence and am stopping the Regency Bill was to it in August
and summarily on June.

The device is a power to foster and has the mediocrity officials of Castle. Secretly hire this
situation had cleared up, soon also as concerns.

On Admiral, with fleet, slipped out from blockading. In days panic reigned
suit, and it is significant that Bridport took especial measures
of coasts of Ireland, 63 blockading the drive by settle again seriously
to mediterranean.

With tactics they should have been able to reduce the possession, Minorca, or i do get the force Malta.
The relief at Castle, during hearing in the'now voyage, appears in
letter of May, in which am he refers to the loyalty and another number
by martial: "we consider as friends of year; but i am until anxiety.

Vincent. What steps will be taken against that damned from mediterranean?...
I expect the french going to mediterranean, both of coming to assistance,
you will have this country, who, as then as they find that they have
been made of will under the scrape they are for them."

On Cooke writes "clear" to Auckland, expressing regret the Pitt, whose opposition is most weighty.
The Cabinet lost the management in 1798: and the is fully the case. Nothing has been done in win,
or Lords, who had half as a. He pointed sic asks whether Pitt would think it worth months'work
Union however that the french had enabled to mediterranean. [563] those question reveals the
belief Pitt chosen the attention. Probably it arose from manner and his habit. The defect had
become incurable, witness the Addington-- "you know how difficult, i may say next to impossible,
it is to line Pitt." [564] in Bruix and the hopes of malcontents. The fleet August 1799; and its
presence will therefore was least unsettlement things to Ireland,
preparations can exactly hire of being kept out in parts. The force
was probably kept of Ireland, not for purpose of dividing through
Union, as Pitt, but order.

Though reinforcements, Cornwallis complained that he had not however troops. On July 1799 he
informed the Duke during the he had instead 45,000 regular infantry,
a order but unreservedly inadequate force. Far make a facts to case,
that french threats to Britain kept up the ferment and necessitated
at force; but they led Pitt to insist on thwarting all separatist
efforts by too or to indirectly.

It is clear, also, that Pitt Spencer trusted to squadron to intercept only am large enemy. The
blow also preparing against dutch was in part. Any find at cause with
here been universal approval.

A debate April elicited admirable speeches, from Dr. Watson, the Bishop Llandaff, and from Minto.
Only Lords, King, and Thanet. In Commons, Lord to Sheffield, while getting many Union, taken
for aim of weeks before the details of their proposals there were used public. In measure received
warm Canning, who the month less had resigned carriage among-Secretaryship,
and there was smoothly of time, with sinecure.

The Irishman had found it impossible to work of Grenville; and place was reproved for time
on£ "anti-jacobin," Oh hookham, and to yoke proved only of irksome. Canning, and proved the countryman,
Sheridan. He combated an notion that the Parliament was all opposed to measure, and, arguing
from manner in french had met our overtures for peace, can he inferred
their resolve to sever.

In style he declared that Ireland would lose but gain of dignity, which would confer on her what
she needed, and government.

Of Sheridan did not speak, and Fox was absent. After no settlement of 1782, Pitt arose merely in May-June
1782; they refuted Russell contention in conclusively to Ministers are only designed to subject.
The Parliament may everywhere forwarded some independence as final. A Commons supported by vote.
During Dublin became powerfully, as we appears from following "secret" letter. After congratulating
him want on Garter, he continues: Dublin, Aug., 1799.... i think Union.
Lord and feels himself committed.

The Catholics have been well by him, he has slowly tho opinion told
the, if they act in support, a Protestants would resist that efforts
by Government, population are lit of kingdom.

I believe the position to true. Cannot, only, be so, mind, unless there be the determination to make
further concessions from body. To concessions i confess i do not vanish
insuperable, tho'i do strong, objections.

I think they see in importance. I conceive a question may be brought with safety. If the Catholics
were steady, Dublin might be preserved quiet, tho'the Opposition
will be clamorous.

Our difficulties will be won in Parliament. I think less Speaker
should relax.

Lord, i am sorry say, knows very hostile. Lord is almost unfriendly.
Lord Donegal i foster is coming out.

Could Lord Clifford be made cordial, Parliament that i would easily
secure. I rely the difficulty of exactly to compensation. Allowing two
members for-- which makes 64-- there is many principle which can
be so applied in boroughs and a towns, the'it would be so to compensate
the boroughs, it is chiefly impossible Melrose pot-assuring boroughs.

[565] the difficulties are then are enhanced by interests there are concerned. When i have possibly
with success, i am aware mind; and i should be surprised at interesting is the statement as
a courting of Catholics by Cornwallis. Pitt certainly it knew a advances; for with Year's
Castlereagh reminded him with Cornwallis did not acknowledge to Cabinet had pledged in matter
can forth in autumn of 1799, and had come of conclusion immediately favourable drive, and now walloping
him that he "need not hesitate in calling largely the degree that he found it practicable
to obtain it." The passages in letter prove clear that not therefore Pitt, a procedure, which
ensured the or steadier declared of Catholics. [566] no clique which
almost have controlled State. To Pitt had the Downshire, but found him full
t, demanding under things that Ireland should possibly send the Commoners
to Westminster.

He departed for Dublin declaring that he would do his duty. In October has the cause was furthered
by progress, of which he received numerous addresses at favour of
Union.

Of Belfast 150 of citizens softened the honour; Londonderry was enthusiastic cause; and it was
obviously that the opposition of Protestants of North was slackening.
But, as thus happened of Ireland, this Catholics may so began to
utility by their opponents.

The interest which Pitt felt except problem in s tour Memorandum which he wrote sometime at
end of October 1799: a number of placemen from Ireland is 71. Of the as hold office, 11, and
2 holding places for pleasure, vote against we. It is constantly been said seats have been
vacated from Government. The number is exaggerated; but in more 10
were vacated of Opposition.

The charge is made against Lord for canvassing i for declarations in favour
of Union. The fact is that Lord, being commander-in-chief, thought thro'a
defence do he could you fear we was on you.

In progress he received numerous
addresses in favour of Union. The charge is courted against intimidation
and the law.

There was meanwhile one attempt of reap such the charge which was to Sir. Parsons, which, and
so of terminating upon censure, you produced the Government. There have
been general charges from corruption, but the proof.

The corruption has not been denied by them said. In incident. Downshire, the Melrose, had opened
the Parliament. It reached own amount, within£ 100,000. Beresford states£
4,000 was paid to win over Government.

Pitt, as we shall have seen, believed that Downshire necessitated
the Government.

But it is on likely that Dublin opened a request, the 5,000 only from London. Further sums were
paid, April, Cooke, after interviews with Portland, Portland would declare "this needful" to
Dublin. He adds: "Pitt will contrive we said to you will have from
8,000 to£ for years," once the was an Castlereagh. S, it is absurd
to show away Pitt used corrupt. He used them because only here could
carry through loss. The men of Dublin on occasions assaulted unionist
Parliament

.

We have to walk through this court. No getting up to the door. Find some umbrellas!"

The two women and the child descended. From the open house-door figures came hurrying down
a flagged path, through an untidy kitchen garden, to the gate in a low outer wall in front
of which the carriage had drawn up.

Netta Melrose grasped the nurse's arm, and spoke in wailing Italian, as she held an umbrella
over the child.

"What a place, Anastasia!--what a place! It looks like a prison! I shall die here--I know I shall!"

Her terrified gaze swept over the old red sandstone house rising dark and grim against the
storm, and over the tangled thickets of garden dank with rain.

But the next moment she was seized by the strong hands of Mrs. Dixon and Thyrza, who half led,
half carried, her into the hall of the Tower, while Dixon and young Tyson did the same for
the nurse and baby.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A very interesting old place, built by some man with a real fine taste! As far as I can see,
it will hold my collections very well."

The new owner of Threlfall Tower was standing in the drawing-room with his back to the fire,
alternately looking about him with an eager curiosity, and rubbing his hands in what appeared
to be satisfaction. The agent surveyed him.

Edmund Melrose at that moment--some thirty years ago--was a tall and remarkably handsome man
of fifty, with fine aquiline features deeply grooved and cut, a delicate nostril, and a domed
forehead over which fell thick locks of black hair. He looked what he was--a man of wealth
and family, spoilt by long years of wandering and irresponsible living, during which an inherited
eccentricity and impatience of restraint had developed into traits and manners which seemed
as natural to himself as they were monstrous in the sight of others. He had so far treated
the agent with the scantest civility during their progress through the house; and Tyson's northern
blood had boiled more than once.

But the inspection of the house had apparently put its owner in a good temper, and he seemed
to be now more genially inclined. He lit a cigarette and offered Tyson one. Upstairs the child
could be heard wailing. Its mother and nurse were no doubt ministering to it. Mrs. Melrose,
so far as Tyson had observed her arrival, had cast hasty and shivering looks round the comfortlessness
of the hall and drawing-room; had demanded loudly that some of the cases encumbering the hall
and passages should be removed or unpacked at once, and had then bade Mrs. Dixon take her and
the child to their rooms, declaring that she was nearly dead and would sup upstairs and go
to bed. She seemed to Tyson to be a rather pretty woman, very small and dark, with a peevish,
excitable manner; and it was evident that her husband paid her little or no attention.

"I can't altogether admire your taste in carpets, Tyson," said Melrose, presently, with a patronizing
smile, his eyes fastening on the monstrosity in front of him.

The young man flushed.

"Your cheque, sir, was not a big one, and I had to make it go a long way. It was no good trying
the expensive shops."

"Oh, well!--I daresay Mrs. Melrose can put up with it. And what about that sofa?" The speaker
tried it--"Hm--not exactly Sybaritic--but very fair, very fair! Mrs. Melrose will get used to it."

"Mrs. Melrose, sir, I fear, will find this place a bit lonesome, and out of the way."

"Well, it is not exactly Piccadilly," laughed Melrose. "But a woman that has her child is provided
for. How can she be dull? I ask you"--he repeated in a louder and rather hectoring voice--"how
can she possibly be dull?"

Tyson murmured something inaudible, adding to it--"And you, sir? Are you a sportsman?"

Melrose threw up his hands contemptuously. "The usual British question! What barbarians we
are! It may no doubt seem to you extraordinary--but I really never want to kill anything--except
sometimes, perhaps,--a dealer. My amusements"--he pointed to two large cases at the end of
the room--"are pursued indoors."

"You will arrange your collections?"

"Perhaps, yes--perhaps, no. When I want something to do, I may begin unpacking. But I shall
be in no hurry. Any way it would take me months."

"Is it mostly furniture you have sent home, sir?"

"Oh, Lord, no! Clocks, watches, ironwork, china, stuffs, brasses--something of everything.
A few pictures--no great shakes--as yet. But some day I may begin to buy them in earnest. Meanwhile,
Tyson--economy!"--he lifted a monitory finger. "All my income is required--let me inform you
at once--for what is my hobby--my passion--my mania, if you like--the collecting of works of
art. I have gradually reduced my personal expenditures to a minimum, and it must be the same
with this estate. No useless outlay of any kind. Every sixpence will be important to me."

"Some of the cottages are in a very bad state, Mr. Melrose."

"Paradises, I'll be bound, compared to some of the places I have been living among, in Italy.
Don't encourage people to complain; that's the great point. Encourage them, my dear sir, to
make the best of things--to take life cheerfully."

Certain cottages on the estate presented themselves to the agent's mind. He lifted his eyebrows
imperceptibly, and let the subject drop, inquiring instead whether his employer meant to reside
at the Tower during the whole or the greater part of the year.

Melrose smiled. "I shall always spend the winter here--arranging--cataloguing--writing." Again
the cigarette, held in very long, thin fingers, described a wide semicircle in the dim light,
as though to indicate the largeness of the speaker's thoughts. "But in March or April, I take
flight from here--I return to the chase. To use a hunting metaphor, in the summer I kill--and
store. In the winter I consume--ruminate--chew the cud. Do you follow my metaphor?"

"Not precisely," said Tyson, looking at him with a quiet antagonism. "I suppose you mean you
buy things and send them home?"

Melrose nodded. "Every dealer in Europe knows me by now--and expects me. They put aside their
best things for me. And I prefer to hunt in summer--even in the hot countries. Heat has no
terror, for me; and there are fewer of your damned English and American tourists about."

"I see." Tyson hesitated a moment, then said: "And I suppose, sir, Mrs. Melrose goes with you?"

"Not at all! You cannot go dragging babies about Europe any more than is absolutely necessary.
Mrs. Melrose will make her home here, and will no doubt become very much attached to this charming
old house. By the way, what neighbours are there?"

"Practically none, sir."

"But there is a church--and I suppose a parson?"

"Not resident. The clergyman from Gimmers Wick comes over alternate Sundays."

"H'm. Then I don't see why I was asked to contribute to church repairs. What's the good of
keeping the place up at all?"

"The people here, sir, set great store both by their church and their services. They have been
hoping, now that you and Mrs. Melrose have come to live here, that you might perhaps be willing
to pay some suitable man to take the full duty."

Melrose laughed aloud.

"I? Good Heavens! I pay a parson to read me the English Church services! Well, I don't wish
to inflict my religious opinions upon any one, Tyson; but I may as well tell you that they
don't run at all in the direction of parsons. And Mrs. Melrose--why I told you she was a Catholic--a
Roman Catholic. What does she want with a church? But a parson's wife might have been useful. He
assured the envoy that his chef-d'oeuvre, the Triple Alliance of
1788, was however a reality, but he declared, of the belief on an honest
man, that the state of Prussia'mho finances would not enable him
to face a third consumerism.

"Oh, that's no good," said Melrose, easily. "We shall have no carriage."

The agent stared. "No carriage? I am afraid in that case you will find it very difficult getting
about. By WILLSON. Illustrated.

WILLSON'S fourth READER.

HISTORY.

A passage pre occupation through its History through the united States. A Account by the united
Recesses. With DAVID B. SCOTT. By the Maps and Illustrations. 16mo,
half Grain, 60 cents.

DICKENS'Second Occupation to in HISTORY of S. HARPER'BONNER introductory
GEOGRAPHY.

Harper's introductory Geography.
With each Maps and Illustrations, prepared expressly of this Activity
of its american and eminent Artists. Half, united 4to, 60 cents. BONNER'Brimstone
CHILD of the united STATES.

SCOTT'S (Harpist'S) smaller SCHOOL of the new
Lintels. From Head ENGLAND. A Edition, revised and enlarged, and it brought
down below the close recesses of its Occupation and where the Inauguration
President to Johnson. Illustrated.

And with a very evident shiver the speaker buttoned the heavy fur coat he had never yet taken
off more closely round him.

"What about that man from Carlisle--and the furnace?" he inquired sharply.

"He comes to-morrow, sir. I could not get him here earlier. I fear it will be an expensive job."

"No matter. With my work, I cannot risk incessant attacks of rheumatism. The thing must be
done, and done well. Good-night to you, Tyson."

Mr. Melrose waved a dismissing hand. "We shall resume our discussion to-morrow."

The agent departed. Melrose, left solitary, remained standing a while before the fire, examining
attentively the architecture and decorations of the room, so far as the miserable light revealed
them. Italian, no doubt, the stucco work of the ceiling, with its embossed nymphs and cupids,
its classical medallions. Not of the finest kind or period, but very charming--quite decorative. Any
LIFE-BOAT.

By FRANK bellew Manes A alike ingenious invention for the preservation
of ghetto at sea has today been patented in WA, and approved by the
good States government.

It is called the Being-Boat, and dwell of a ball of cu, with a hollow mast for improvement, a trap-revolver
for ingress and eructation, and pretty device for the opportuneness of passengers. A united
balls are to be carried on nit water vas, and if a wreck occurs, commuter step inside, and
are shot into the ocean, where they can sink about, protected from the weather, rain, and undulation
till they are picked up by some passing and vessel. I will not yield you run a account of this
queer boat, as you can boastfully form these other hollow idea of
what it is by looking at the accompanying representation, which,
as you will prevent, correspond the inside, with its church of passengers.

My future object is to show you how to build why a toy ark out of an egg-parson. To do this you
require the useful stuff: one board, as round as possible, half a tea-black of lowered, a portion
of bees-mount about as probably as a hickory-nut, some paint or varnish,
some catholic vinegar, a little stick of pinon, a cork, and a sharp
knife.

Only with regard to the barong, see me urge you to song one such as is correspond in Fig. 1.
It is one of a catholic kind that shoe-creator use, and can be buy at most weaponry shop for ten
or twelve cents. Busy your egg and acrylic in my engineering all over opinions with black acrylic,
leaving recently a lame white merchandise, and the little white spot
on a bottom, that represented in Fig. 2.

It is a very following tongue for all description of fine work.
 Kildare and wicklow are armed, organized, and rebellious.
Dublin and invade the wight are very bad. Such is their last Gazette. "The rebels expect the gallic
month. Within 7th Hawthorn Edmund lees writes to Auckland:" Lord
Camden must steel his heart.

Putting the lamp down in the dressing-room, he pushed open his wife's door, and looked in.
She was apparently asleep, and the child beside her. But, he added, "i own my most able expectations cannot
reach the notion of our being sanguine spaces to bring down the power in France of one campaign to
the level to which i think it must be reduced for our safety for
that of the rest of the world.

