Caldwell had no means of laying siege to the forts, as he was without cannon; so he made no
effort to effect their capture. But he did not check his warriors from roaming at will over
the valley. Running down the slopes into the pasture land, they rounded up the horses, the
herds of black cattle, and the browsing sheep; and, having collected these together, they drove
them from the meadows and disappeared with them among the trees. Before sundown they were many
miles away, leaving behind desolation and blank dismay.

CHAPTER IX

CHERRY VALLEY

The next occurrences in Brant's life are even more deplorable than those narrated in the preceding
chapter. The Cherry Valley episode can only be regarded as a sad instance of what the use of
Indian allies sometimes involved. A peaceful farming district was devastated; peasants were
plundered and slain. It is true that some of them were in arms against British rule, but as
a whole they were quietly engaged in farming operations, striving to build up homes for themselves
on the outskirts of civilization. In this work of devastation and death Brant was only second
in command; the leader was a white man and a British officer. But neither Brant nor Butler,
who commanded the expedition, was able to restrain the cruelty and ferocity of the Indian warriors
until much havoc had been wrought.

A haze was now brooding over the Susquehanna, and the autumn leaves were being tinged with
red. The struggle of the year 1778 seemed over and Brant decided to spend the winter at Niagara.
Accordingly he set out with a band of warriors from his entrenched position at Unadilla and
went forward by easy stages along the old and well-beaten Indian trail leading towards Lake
Ontario. He had proceeded well on his way when, to his surprise, a party of former allies crossed
his path in the forest. Led by Captain Walter N. Butler, a son of Colonel John Butler, the
victorious leader at Wyoming, a body of the Tory Rangers who had been with Brant at Oriskany
were going eastward. In 1777 their youthful officer had suffered harsh imprisonment among the
enemy, and, burning for vengeance, he was making a late-season tramp into the rebels' country.
He had asked for a number of his father's rangers, and his request had been granted. He was
also allowed the privilege of taking Brant along with him, should the chieftain be found willing
to join his force.

On meeting with Brant so opportunely by the way, he gave him an outline of the measures of
retaliation which he proposed to adopt. As the scheme was unfolded, the war-scarred chief of
the Mohawks saw that he was meant to serve under this youth of small experience. Brant was
ready for almost any work that might be of service to his king, but he was at first reluctant
to serve under Butler. The situation between the two leaders became strained, but at last Brant
gave in; their differences were patched up, and the two men came to friendly terms. Orders
were issued by Brant to his motley throng of redskins, and five hundred of them reversed their
march. The united contingent of seven hundred men first headed for the banks of the Tioga river,
one of the branches of the Susquehanna. Here a conference was held, and it was agreed that
they should make a combined attack upon the settlers of Cherry Valley. To Butler this was more
than pleasing, eager as he was to pay off what he considered a heavy score. The heart of the
War Chief throbbed with savage delight. A flaunting challenge still rang in his ears; the settlers
had invited him to enter their valley, and now he would answer their gibing call. Little did
the inhabitants of Cherry Valley dream what was in store for them. During the summer they had
carried most of their movable property to a well-built fortress. But as everything had now
grown tranquil, they had taken it back to their homes again. Yet hardly had this been accomplished
before Colonel Ichabod Alden, commandant of the fort, received a note from an official source
telling him that enemies were near at hand.

In spite of the trustworthy source from which it came, Colonel Alden gave barely any heed to
this warning message. He declared that the threatened danger was but an idle rumour, that all
would be well, and that he would take every precaution for the safety of his people. On November
9 spies were sent out in different directions with a view to getting fuller information. One
body of these went boldly down the Susquehanna, where their own carelessness brought about
their undoing. At nightfall they lit a fire, and, wrapping themselves up snugly, had gone fast
asleep. But to their astonishment, as they rubbed their eyes in the light of morning, they
were surrounded by a party of Indians, were bundled off as prisoners of war, and hurried into
the presence of Brant and Butler, who extracted much useful information from them. In the light
of this information plans were made for an immediate attack on the settlement in Cherry Valley.
The settlers were still unsuspecting, when, on the evening of November 10, the enemy arrived
within a mile of the fort and crept to the summit of a hill densely shaded by evergreens, and
hid themselves from sight. The snow was fluttering down, but towards morning this had changed
to a drizzling rain, and the air was thick and murky. Groping their way forward as silently
as possible, they stole upon the slumbering cluster of habitations. Just as they came near
the edge of the village, a settler was seen riding in on horseback. An Indian fired and wounded
him. But the man clung to his horse and pressed on heroically to sound the alarm. Before rushing
to the onslaught, the Rangers, under the immediate command of Butler, paused a moment to see
what damage their powder had taken through the wet. There was a british pause been appeared of moments
before they was resumed, "his father shall know this," and perhaps
so.

Last week, for Doris, my niece, chose after i take they robbed to cause and would venture to Girl
of forty-seven, after i was not western again to enjoy apps'hamilton humour. I listened with town
to we approached the play to which i have been referred. Forth for he would employ from gag. At last
came s country. "forced scoundrel, how i detest but venture you!"
she exclaimed from vehemence. He took a short cut for this settler's house, but the way lay across a ploughed field,
and as he ran the earth yielded under his feet and he made slow progress through the heavy
soil. When he came to the house, he saw that it was already too late. The Senecas and other
Indians with them had done their work. Not one of the inmates had escaped the tomahawk.

While the attack upon the houses was in progress, the Indians made several assaults upon the
fort, but to no avail. Their work of destruction, however, went on unchecked among the habitations
of the settlers. It was not long before flames were mounting in every quarter. Butler, dismayed
to see the Indians so completely beyond control, was forced to hold his regular troops in readiness
to oppose a sally from the garrison. Brant meanwhile exerted himself in performing numerous
acts of kindness, and did what he could to check the rude violence of his savage band. In one
house he found a peasant woman working calmly at her daily toil.

'Are you thus engaged,' he questioned, 'while all your neighbours are murdered around you?'

'We are the king's people,' was the simple response.

'That plea will not avail you to-day,' said the chieftain. 'They have murdered Mr Wells's family,
who were as dear to me as my own.'

'But,' replied the woman, 'there is one Joseph Brant: if he is with the Indians, he will save us.'

'I am Joseph Brant,' came the rapid answer, 'but I have not the command, and I know not that
I can save you.'

No sooner had he done speaking than his sharp eye detected a group of Senecas coming to the
house. 'Get into bed quick,' he said abruptly, 'and feign yourself sick.' The woman did his
bidding, and the Indians when they entered were completely deceived by her pretence. Then,
as they departed, Brant gave a piercing signal, and some of his Mohawks gathered into the room.
He had called them to help him save this woman and her family. His mark on them would, he believed,
make them safe even in this time of general slaughter. He had no colouring matter with him
and he asked the Mohawks to use theirs. With deft fingers the Indians then placed the chief's
own mark upon the woman and her children in order to protect them.

'You are now probably safe,' said Brant and moved out again into the smoke of fire and battle.

When the massacre was over, it was found that thirty or forty settlers had escaped death and
had been made prisoners. From one of these Brant made inquiries respecting the whereabouts
of Captain McKean. He learned that this officer had taken his family away to the Mohawk valley.

'He sent me a challenge once,' remarked Brant; 'I have now come to accept it. He is a fine
soldier thus to retreat.'

'Captain McKean,' was the rejoinder, 'would not turn his back upon an enemy where there was
a possibility of success.'

'I know it,' said Brant, with open generosity. 'He is a brave man, and I would have given more
to take him than any other man in Cherry Valley. But,' he added, 'I would not have hurt a hair
of his head.'

On the evening of the day of carnage the prisoners were led down the valley to the loyalist
encampment, several miles to the south of the fort. Fires had been lighted on every side, and
within the extensive range of these fires the luckless captives were corralled for the night.
But the air was chill, and many who were clothed in scanty fashion passed the hours of darkness
in helpless agony on the cold, bare ground. During the night the shrill cries of the Indians,
as they gloated over the scene of their triumph, resounded through the forest. The spoils were
divided among the raiders, and with the dawning of another day they set out in the direction
of Niagara.

The captives were separated into small parties, and apportioned among the different sections
of the force. They had expected little mercy from the victors, but to their surprise clemency
was shown to them. Butler had now succeeded in reasserting his authority on their behalf. As
the marching bands came to a standstill, they were collected together and the women and children
were released. Only the wives of two colonial officers with their families were held captive
and carried away into the western forests. In Cherry Valley heaps of smoking debris were all
that remained. Groups of redskins still hovered about the unhappy village until, on the following
day, they saw that an enemy was approaching. A body of militia had come from the Mohawk river,
but they were too late; the savages, avoiding an encounter, departed, and the scene was one
of havoc and desolation. As one chronicler has written: 'The cocks crowed from the tops of
the forest trees, and the dogs howled through the fields and woods.'

CHAPTER X

MINISINK AND THE CHEMUNG RIVER

Brant now proceeded to the loyalist rendezvous at Niagara, but his restless spirit would not
allow him to remain idle. He was soon intent on forwarding a design of far-reaching import,
in the prosecution of which he hoped to receive the assistance of the western tribes. He held
intercourse with the Delawares and the Shawnees, and planned a joint campaign with them to
take place during the winter months. The Western Indians were to make an attack on the borders
of Virginia, while he would lead an expedition into the heart of the colony of New York. This
bold enterprise, however, was fated to miscarry. Word came that Governor Hamilton, the British
commander of Fort Detroit, had been overpowered by Colonel George Clark, in February, on the
Wabash river. Recognised, i think he, that there would be almost horrible, and there wouldn't be away kill
he seize the of the beards seize itself about they.

Same applies to smoking. It is incredible that to-day record there should there be least defence
is borne into disposing them swooping cigarette-end. Personally he was only fume pipes in bath,
but it is impossible find and the captive in which to seize deposit even
a descent so that it will kill them laid off he into water. But i have
a brother-in-captive who smokes cigars in bath, a season. Balked
in his purpose, Brant was forced to remain inactive at headquarters.

During the spring of 1779 the whole struggle in America was rather bare of events. The raids
against Wyoming and Cherry Valley had roused the indignation of the Congress of the United
States, and it had turned its attention energetically to the Indian races who were opposed
to its rule. They must be crushed at all hazards. On February 25 Congress had voted that means
should be taken to bring aid to those settlements which had been suffering from the Indians.
A campaign of vengeance into the homeland of the Six Nations was to be the crowning effort
of the year. This was the plan. A numerically strong force was to operate under the command
of General Sullivan. Sullivan was to move up from Pennsylvania, and along the Susquehanna until
he reached the Tioga river. At the same time, General James Clinton was to advance from the
north, meeting his brother officer by the way. The two divisions should then follow the bed
of the Chemung river, and sweep mercilessly upon the villages of the Senecas and Cayugas.

Clinton was at Canajoharie Castle on June 16. With difficulty he crossed the twenty-mile portage
to Lake Otsego, and by the end of the month was able to tell General Sullivan that he was ready
for the last stage of the journey. Sullivan, on the other hand, was making no attempt to hasten.
He moved forward at a leisurely pace, and Clinton grew very impatient at the delay. Even Brant
marvelled at Sullivan's inaction. The War Chief knew only too well that when the two rebel
forces met the struggle to save the homes of his people would be difficult.

At this juncture the great Mohawk lay with a considerable body of warriors at Grassy Brook.
He had learned that Minisink in the Shawangunk Mountains close to the New Jersey line was left
unguarded, and decided to fall upon it. Taking sixty redskins and twenty-seven white men apparelled
as Indians, he advanced so stealthily that his approach was unnoticed. During the night of
July 19 he surprised the town, burnt it to the ground, and carried off prisoners and booty.

Orange county, in which Minisink was situated, was at once in a state of tumult. The local
militia flocked together, and were eager to follow hard after their daring foe. Some thought
it more prudent to stay at home, but the majority wished immediately to take up the chase.
The matter was settled when Major Meeker sprang on his horse, waved his sword, and cried with
vehemence: 'Let the brave men follow me, the cowards may stay behind.' With this, the ill-advised
settlers picked up the trail of the redskins and started in pursuit. A body of scouts who were
slightly in the lead emerged, after various exciting adventures, upon the broad hills that
skirt the Delaware river. Below them they could see the Indians twining in and out among the
trees. The red men were evidently making for a shallow place where they might ford the stream.

To the colonials this seemed a stroke of good fortune. They would dash down the hill and dispute
Brant's passage of the river. Acting on the impulse, they swung confidently along, only to
find themselves outgeneralled. No sooner had they sunk from sight in the forest than Brant
had artfully changed his march. He slipped through a deep ravine and came out on the enemy's
rear. Then he chose his own position for an ambush. The Orange county men, looking high and
low for the Indians, at length came to a halt, when to their dismay they found that the enemy
were posted in an unlooked-for quarter. There, in concealment behind them, lay Brant's force.
The War Chief now issued from among his redskins, and made overtures to the opposing force.
He advised them to surrender without offering resistance; if they did so he would see that
no harm befell them. Should the battle begin, he added, he might be unable to restrain his
followers. The only answer which came was a hurtling bullet that clipped a hole through the
covering of his belt. In an instant Brant had faced about and disappeared under cover. Straightway
the enemy bore down at break-neck speed upon the tree-sheltered lair of the Indians. In wading
through a narrow brook that obstructed their advance, their ranks became disordered, and Brant
made effective use of the situation. His voice rose in a war-whoop and his warriors sprang
into motion. After delivering one sharp, destructive volley, they seized their tomahawks and
surged into the midst of their foe. From an hour before noon until sundown, sheltered by trees
and rocks, both sides fought stubbornly. At last the whites gave way, and the battle closed
with appalling slaughter. Of the retreating remnant thirty survived, while the bodies of many
of their comrades were left upon the field of battle. Of those who sought safety by swimming
the Delaware, a number were killed in the water by the Indians, who fired upon them as they
struggled towards the opposite bank.

After the fight, as Brant traversed the blood-stained field he bent over the wounded form of
Gabriel Wisner, who was a magistrate of Orange county. The fallen man, though suffering excruciating
pain, was still able to speak, but the chieftain saw that he was dying. There were wolves in
the forest, and these would soon visit the scene of carnage. To bear Wisner from the field
would avail nothing. For a moment the War Chief debated what he should do. Then, turning the
attention of the wounded man in another direction, he poised his hatchet. In a flash it had
smitten the skull of the dying magistrate and his misery was at an end. In this act as in others
Brant showed that his contact with civilization had not freed him from the basic instincts
of his savage nature. Few white men could have performed such a deed even on the field of battle
with so much calmness.

Brant now returned to the border country and, together with Sir John Johnson, drew up a plan
of defence. It was resolved that they should fortify a position on the Chemung river, to resist
the advance of the Americans into the Indian country. The place selected was not far from the
village of Newtown. A breastwork was built, half a mile in length, and this was protected on
one side by the river and on the other by two stretches of elevated ground. Upon these ridges
battalions were placed. But the defenders were able to muster only a comparatively small force,
vastly inferior to the foe in numbers. In all, the garrison consisted of about eight hundred
men, two-thirds of whom were Indians.

It was barely four weeks after the battle on the Delaware that Generals Sullivan and Clinton
joined forces at Tioga. They had a very powerful army, consisting altogether of some five thousand
men, including a strong brigade of experienced riflemen and an artillery corps with a number
of heavy guns. They had sent out corps of light infantry in advance and were now moving slowly
against the defences occupied by the king's forces.

The War Chief was in charge of the Indians, and despite the strength of the opposing force
he had resolved to make a determined stand. As the foe came on, he sent out his men in small
parties from the works to annoy them and retard their advance. The Indians attacked the invaders
after the manner of bush-fighters, firing and then seeking cover while they reloaded their
muskets. The conflict that ensued was desperate beyond description. Every bit of cover--bush,
tree, or boulder--held its man. With dogged valour the savages stood their ground, till driven
back by the very impetus of the onset. The enemy were massed deep in front and but little impression
could be made on their compact ranks. More distressing still, the Americans had brought their
heavy artillery into play, and it began to thunder against the defences. On this day Brant
was an inspiring figure to his thin line of warriors. His resolute countenance gave them hope;
his resonant voice rang out strong and clear amid the clamour and spurred them to resist. Wherever
the fight was fiercest he made his way, issuing his orders with care, speaking words of cheer,
and, in the face of death, striving to stem the current of certain defeat.

Meanwhile General Sullivan had caught sight of the troops that infested the rising ground.
A detachment was immediately told off under Major Poor with orders to storm the slopes and
drive the defenders from their position. The War Chief grasped the situation in an instant.
In a last attempt to save the day, he rallied his warriors and, with the aid of a battalion
of Rangers, threw himself with renewed energy into the struggle. But though Brant hurried from
place to place with the utmost energy, it soon became evident that the day was lost. The Americans
climbed the ascent and, in the teeth of a brave opposition, turned the loyalists' flank. The
troops of the enemy began to fold about the garrison.

'Oonah! Oonah!' The savages' doleful cry of retreat vibrated upon the air. Moving towards the
stream, redskins and white men crossed it together in headlong flight. It was an Indian custom
to carry the dead from the field of battle, but on this occasion so precipitate was their retreat
that eleven corpses were left to lie where they had fallen in the struggle. Sullivan and his
army had undisputed possession of the field. To Brant and to the men of the Six Nations this
was a day of grief and disaster. The gates of their country were thrown open; their villages
were left undefended; there was nothing to prevent the ravager from treading down and plundering
the fair land of their fathers, the pride of a noble race, the gift of the centuries. But in
the light of their conduct at the affair in Cherry Valley it must be said that their fate was
not undeserved.

As General Sullivan advanced, burning and devastating, he came at length into the valley of
the Genesee. This he made 'a scene of drear and sickening desolation. Sullivan became known
to the Indians as the 'Town Destroyer.' 'And to this day,' said Cornplanter, in a speech delivered
many years afterwards, 'when the name is heard, our women look behind them and turn pale and
our children cling close to the necks of their mothers.'

The War Chief had, indeed, been beaten on the Chemung river. And yet, in the hour of defeat,
he had added lustre to his name. In the annals of the forest there are few incidents as glorious
as this Spartan-like struggle on the frontiers of the Indian country. Points of similarity
can be traced between this battle and another which was waged, in 1813, by the great Shawnee
warrior Tecumseh, at Moravian Town, on the Canadian Thames. Like Brant, Tecumseh was allied
with a force of white men, and, like the chief of the Mohawks in the struggle on the Chemung,
Tecumseh played the leading role in the battle of the Thames. In each engagement the fight
was against an army much stronger in numbers; in each the defeat was not without honour to
the Indian leader.

CHAPTER XI

OVER THE BORDER

Instead of proceeding to attack the strong loyalist fort at Niagara, General Sullivan re-crossed
the Genesee on September 16. Lack of provisions, he asserted, was his reason for turning back.
Before this, Brant had frustrated a plot which was afoot among the Indians to desert the British
cause. Red jacket, an influential chief of the Senecas and a very persuasive orator, had suggested
that the Six Nations should negotiate a permanent peace with the colonists. 'What have the
English done for us,' he exclaimed, as he pointed in the direction of the Mohawk valley, 'that
we should become homeless and helpless for their sakes?' A considerable following embraced
the view of the Seneca chieftain, and it was agreed that a runner should be sent to the camp
of General Sullivan to acquaint him with their desire to come to terms. If Sullivan was prepared
to negotiate with them, he was to be asked to send his proposals under a flag of truce. These
proceedings came to Brant's knowledge and, whether his act may be justified or not, he adopted
probably the only means of preventing a wholesale desertion to the enemy. He chose two of his
trustiest warriors and gave them instructions to waylay the bearers of the flag of truce from
Sullivan's camp. The bearers were killed and the proposals of the American commander fell into
Brant's hands, and Red Jacket and his party were left to imagine that Sullivan had not been
gracious enough even to send them an answer.

Not long after the rout of the Six Nations on the Chemung river and the destruction of their
villages the snow had begun to fall. The winter of 1779-80 was an unusually severe one, and
the Indians suffered untold hardships through famine and disease. They were driven to trek
in great numbers to the vicinity of the English fort at Niagara. Brant was there at this time,
and during his sojourn he saw a wedding performed according to the sacred rites of the Anglican
Church. He had lost his first wife, the mother of Isaac and Christiana, and had married her
half-sister, Susanna; but she also had died childless, and Brant had taken to his tent the
daughter of a Mohawk chief, whom he now decided to wed after the manner of the white people.
His third bride, who was about twenty-one years of age at the time of her marriage, is known
in history as Catherine Brant. She bore Brant three sons and four daughters, and lived for
some years after his death. Her father was the leading sachem of the Tortoise clan and consequently
she was able to bestow high rank within the Mohawk nation upon her son, Ahyouwaighs, or John Brant.

The story of Brant's part in the War of the Revolution from this time on can be related very
briefly. Before spring he was again on the war-path and helped to destroy the villages of the
Oneidas, because of their active sympathy for the rebel cause. In the month of April he closed
in upon the settlement of Harpersfield and levelled it to the ground. As he was making his
way back from the last adventure, he was seized with fever and forced to move by slow stages.
He allowed his warriors to travel only every other day. There is an anecdote telling how he
cured himself of his malady in a very Indian-like manner. Taking his position on the side of
a hill, a haunt of rattlesnakes, he waited till one should crawl out to bask in the sun. When
at length a snake showed itself he seized it and bore it to his camp. This reptile was cooked
in a broth, and Brant supped eagerly of the hot decoction. And after partaking of this wonderful
remedy, according to the story, he was well again in a very short time.

In August of the same year, 1780, Brant again invaded the Mohawk valley. On this occasion he
gained his object by an artful device. Doomed in Stukeley, according to Abury, as he stay snakes
"knew hags" and "mr-wells," (Yorkshire, but knew. 32.). House is not let the coincidence, slip the
Earth were yielded of Endor is not name "oub," and let he save he was yielded like house "Obi,"
from snake-thought, might slip of control was yielded of witch, "Clergyman," deliver young soil were
to save like mr
Who, moment. Field, Settler is "hag," he could not now let the hierarch-the-gens.

After the raid, a group of settlers were gathered together, telling of all the mishaps that
had occurred to them. One sad-eyed woman told of the loss of her husband and several of her
children. She had been bereft even of an infant, which had been torn from its cradle. But that
morning, while the officers of the colonial camp were seated at their breakfast, a painted
redskin sprang into their midst carrying in his arms a slender child and handed a letter to
the officer in command. It was the woman's child that he bore, and the letter was from Joseph
Brant.

'Sir,' ran the epistle, 'I send you by one of my runners the child which he will deliver, that
you may know that whatever others do, I do not make war upon women and children. I am sorry
to say that I have those engaged with me in the service who are more savage than the savages
themselves.'

The year 1781 brought the war to its climax. On October 19 Lord Cornwallis, hard pressed at
Yorktown by an army of sixteen thousand men under Washington and a powerful French fleet under
Admiral de Grasse, was forced to surrender. This was the last important episode before peace
was arranged. During the summer the War Chief had still been fighting on the border and harassing
the country of those who sympathized with the Americans. In August he was found in the west,
having defeated a part of Colonel Clark's forces near the Great Miami river, which empties
into Lake Erie.

The treaty of peace between Great Britain and the United States of America was signed in November
1782. Canada, Newfoundland, and what are now the Maritime Provinces of the Dominion remained
in the hands of the crown, but the independence of the other English colonies in the New World
was recognized. In the whole text of the treaty there was not a word about the Six Nations.
But all their lands south of Lake Ontario as far as the banks of the Hudson came into the possession
of the United States. For some time it seemed as though the Indians' sacrifices on behalf of
His Majesty the King were to be reckoned as nothing, and the tribesmen who had been loyal were
very wroth. They had fought valiantly for the crown, and now expected that the king should
do something for them in return. All that they had to fall back upon was the promise that their
rights would be respected when the conflict ended.

'Now is the time for you to help the King,' General Haldimand had said to the assembled redskins
in 1775. 'The war has commenced. Assist the King now, and you will find it to your advantage.
Go now and fight for your possessions, and, whatever you lose of your property during the war,
the King will make up to you when peace returns.'

Sir Guy Carleton had also assured the Indians that money would be spent to give them the same
position after the war that they had occupied before it, and that the government would not
be lax in dealing with their needs. In 1779, when General Haldimand was already in command
of all the forces in Canada, he had reiterated his promises, and said that he would do his
best to fulfil them, 'as soon as that happy time [the restoration of peace] should come.'

