I began to be deeply interested in "studying lessons," and was soon, after hard study, complete
master of the alphabet. I could repeat it forwards and backwards, and could instantly tell
the name of any letter pointed out to me. My mistresses seemed to take great pleasure in teaching
me, and I was very anxious to learn. I soon found that I could understand in a great measure
the instructions the teacher gave to the different scholars, by which I profited. I sat in
the back part of the house, behind the scholars, with my young mistress' old book in my hand,
and held it so that nobody could see it, and studied constantly day after day, which soon advanced
me beyond some of the white children older than myself in learning. I learned to spell and
read; and my appetite for knowledge increasing, my young mistress set copies for me, and by
the time the school-term was out I could spell, read, and write.

Slaves on large plantations in the South were worked in gangs, under the general supervision
of the overseer or slave-owner. His ashes rest in the Cathedral
of Santiago de Galicia.

In contrast, many other illustrious dead sleep the eternal sleep in the ancient temple of Salamanca,
where they are lying on their quiet graves magnificent statues, prayer niches within worked in
the thickness of the walls, now in sumptuous chapels through .-- And strangely! between the most
humble tombstones we find a Mandalfa or Princess Mafalda, daughter of Alonso VIII most famous as
dead as alive, or more famous as a statue as a woman, at least for me, could not even remember
having read his dubious name .....-- Today, however, I returned to record history, and I know
now, and never forget, as the epitaph says; that is, that the Princess
died as "getting married", or, speaking less equivocally, single.

Much more than this tomb interested me other than we saw in the Chapel of St. Anaya or Bartholomew
.-- sleep together on him a gentleman and his wife. He wears a warrior, with some touched
elegant Moorish richly carved armor, helmet at his feet and sword in hand. She is shrouded blessed
with very curly touches on the head, and shod some rare shoes tall, aristocratic craftsmanship.
The knight's face is noble and austere, and her calm and beautiful as love in peace. It is also
notable for its delicacy the hands of the lady, and, for their exquisite
work, the luxurious pillow where his head rests husband.

The pillow of it is more severe and humble, which corresponded to his pious shroud.

No epitaph this grave, but determined to know everything guess that
those characters must be a D. Gabriel Anaya, who died in America,
and his wife Ms Anne, fine their days in a convent.

Why was I so faithful and dutiful to my slave master? Simply because I was doing my duty to
God and acting in obedience to the commands of Christ; for my book taught me to do good and
shun evil--to obey the revealed will of God no matter what position I might be placed in. As
a slave I loved to do the will of the Master in heaven; as a responsible human being I could
do no less.

I improved my knowledge, whenever opportunity occurred, and it was but a short time, comparatively,
until I found out for myself, by searching the Scriptures clandestinely, the great truths that
Jesus taught. I read, pondered, and began the work of self-regeneration. I read that God required
of me to do certain things; that unless I obeyed the commands of Jesus I could expect no help
from God. I found that I was commanded to "do," and not stand still and wait for others to
"do" for me. The way seemed to open before me plainly and unmistakably, and engraved the command
to "do" firmly in my heart, in the simple words, "Do the will of God." I obeyed the commands
of our Savior in all the essentials of repentance, baptism, and in everything, and began the
real work of my life--of living and being a servant of God and a faithful follower of Jesus
Christ. My field of labor was my own heart, which I endeavored to render pure in the sight
of God. But a short time elapsed when my work within myself began to bear fruit in my efforts
to redeem my fellow-slaves from sin and make them children of God. I labored with them in a
spirit of brotherly love, and urged them, in season and out of season, to come to Jesus. My
labors were not in vain, for a great many were brought to the altar of prayer through my exertions,
and were forgiven.

Wilson found out that I could read and write. During the time of cotton-picking, the last season
I was superintendent, a protracted meeting was held in the neighborhood, and my master and
mistress attended regularly. The only time I could go was on Sunday, and I looked forward to
that day with hope and pleasure. On Saturday evening my master stayed to church, and did not
expect to return home until Sunday evening. My report of weights were on my mind, and I became
somewhat uneasy about the result if I should attempt to remember them until the following Monday.
What to do under the circumstances I did not know; yet I knew that "where there was a will
there was a way." I was afraid to set the weights down for fear of detection and punishment.
I hesitated and tried to think of some safe way out of the dilemma. I knew if I let the matter
rest over Sunday I would not remember the weights, for the reason that my mind was so employed
and taken up with the religious revival that was then going on in the neighborhood, in which
I was very much interested on my own account and on account of my fellow-slaves. I prayed to
God to direct me right. The overseer used a slate on which to set down the weights of cotton,
which was hanging in his cabin. I took the slate down, made the entries of weights with the
names of the pickers, and hung it up again. During the next day (Sunday) the overseer came
home, and found the slate with the entries on it I had made. He was somewhat surprised. When
Wilson came home he was duly informed of the fact. I was called, and ordered into the presence.
I knew it was unlawful for me to know how to write, and I dreaded the consequences of my rash
act, yet I unhesitatingly, and with a courage that surprised me, went to the house.

"Who wrote these names and weights on this slate, Charles?" asked Mr. Wilson.

"I did it, sir," I answered.

"How and when did you learn to write?"

"During the time I attended my young mistresses to school, sir."

Wilson looked at me long and angrily, and remarked that I had kept that fact secret for a long
time, and that as I had learned to read and write he could not help it. "But you must remember,
Charles," he continued, "that the law is that if any negro shall be found writing, his forefinger
shall be cut off at the first joint."

My time had now come for my first punishment, I thought. A day or two after I heard Wilson,
while in conversation with the overseer, say, "It will not do to let Charles stay with the
rest of the negroes, or he will learn them all to read and write, and then we might as well
set them free."

What was to be done with me for my unpardonable crime? All kinds of surmises and speculations
entered my mind. What was to be my fate? Belonging to Mrs. Wilson--her property--I was placed
in charge of her son James, who employed me at teaming, that is, hauling cotton, lumber, etc.

In this occupation I became pretty well acquainted with the surrounding country and the people,
and was very well satisfied with matters generally as they then stood. But I was soon to learn
that my young master was only anxious to carry out the plans of his father, and was determined
to punish, or, as they pleased to term it, "break me," merely because I was related to Ben--because
I was able to read and write as well if not better than James Wilson himself.

I was told one day by James that he had hired me to a man in Pontotoc to work in a livery-stable,
and that I must come to his plantation without delay. When I arrived I was informed that instead
of going to Pontotoc I should go to the railroad then building through Mississippi, and work
for Mr. Leadbitter. I expostulated with my master, and urged him, with all the pleas and arguments
at my command, to allow me to remain on the plantation or go to Pontotoc, but to no avail.
He whipped out his six-shooter, raving and swearing, and bade me mount one of two mules instanter
or he would shoot me on the spot. I mounted the mule.

My reasons for not wanting to go to the railroad to work were good. There was plenty to do
on the plantation, and there was no good cause for sending me away. I feared rough usage at
the railroad, and rougher associations. I had by this time become the religious teacher of
all the well-disposed slaves in the neighborhood, and I was so much interested in my labors
that I doomed my great Master's work of too much importance to be driven away from it without
a struggle. I was no coward, and was always ready to stand out to the end against all opposition,
when my duty as a humble follower of Jesus was in question. Therefore my reluctance to be driven
from my place of usefulness. However, I got on the mule and started, in company with a colored
man who was going with me to bring the mules back. After traveling four or five miles, and
when at a convenient place, I dismounted from the mules and told my companion I was going no
farther with him, and that if Wilson wanted any one to go to the railroad to work he might
go himself; and I "took to the woods."

This was the first time I ever attempted to escape and gain my freedom. Whether I was right
or wrong I shall not say, only I ask you to put yourself in my place as I was then situated,
and draw your own conclusions. It is true I had formed dear and near associations, and the
old neighborhood had been the scene of my trials and triumphs. My master had been uniformly
kind, as much so at least as his disposition would allow, yet I felt, although my skin was
black, I was entitled to and deserved freedom to worship God according to the dictates of my
own conscience, and to teach others the way to everlasting life. I felt that I was a man made
after God's own image, and that no one had any right to a property in me as a mere chattel,
all human laws to the contrary notwithstanding. I did not deem that I was a criminal, and that
I was escaping from penal servitude; but that I was one of God's children, escaping from a
worse than Egyptian bondage. I rightfully owed allegiance to God and my country only. So I
run away.

The peculiar feelings one has who is a "runaway" are indescribable. I felt every bit an outcast,
and was frightened by the least noise or the sight of any person, and the yelp of a hound was
terror to me. I skulked and hid in the woods all day until night, when I concluded to go to
town, get something to eat, and make my arrangements for the future.

When the "hoy," who was sent by Wilson with me, returned and repeated to him my words, vengeance
was sworn against me, and the hounds were turned loose for immediate chase. I went to the town
of Pontotoc, and while there refreshing myself in a cabin I heard hounds whining. That was
sufficient to inform me that I was trapped. What to do I did not know, but went to the door
with the intention of making my escape, if possible, when I was met by James Wilson and five
other persons fully armed. Resistance was useless, the hounds would have caught me before I
could have run a hundred yards, even if I could have escaped the bullets. I surrendered, and
was securely tied by James Wilson and his gang and taken back to the plantation. Dire threats
were made against me, but my mistress, James' mother, saved me again. She informed her son
that "Charles belonged to her; that Charles' mother had placed him, under the care of God,
in her custody, and that she did not intend to have him beaten."

James insisted on "breaking" me, as he termed it, and finally prevailed on his mother, with
promises, that if she would let him deal with me he would "break" me without whipping me. She
consented. James came to the cabin where I was tied and chained, and told me that he did not
desire to whip me, but that if I did not go to the railroad to work every slave on the plantation
would become demoralized, and they would all do as they pleased. His words and manner were
very kind and conciliatory, yet I took them for what they were worth, and did not believe him;
for he would have whipped me severely if he had dared do so. His reasoning regarding the poor,
ignorant slaves on the plantation, however, was to the point. In their ignorance they would
suppose that if I could do as I pleased and not be punished, they could do the same; and they
would, in all probability, create an insurrection which would result in their own destruction.
For their sakes I acceded to James' wishes. He told me that if I would go to the railroad and
work for Leadbitter one month, that I might after that time hire myself out to whom I pleased
and for as long a time as I pleased.

I was given a letter to Leadbitter, and immediately started on foot for the railroad. When
I arrived there I handed the letter to Mr. Leadbitter, who asked me how long I had come to
stay with him. I told him one month. He broke the letter open, and after reading it informed
me that James Wilson stated in the letter that I was to stay as long as he wanted me. This
was a piece of intelligence that learned me that James Wilson would lie, and from that time
forward I had no confidence in his truthfulness. I did not know what was best to do, but finally
made up my mind to fulfill and make good my promise, and trust to the future to compel James
Wilson to perform his. I thought this the right course. I did not deem that I would be justified
in breaking my promise because Wilson was unreliable and broke his. I concluded that if Leadbitter
kept me longer than one month he would have to be smarter than I gave him credit for being.
I asked Leadbitter how many days there were in that month.

I went to work, and kept account of the days. I worked carefully. The time passed slowly and
wearily. My associations were of the worst character possible, and my co-laborers were of that
lowest class of southern blacks whose ignorance and waywardness render them most of the time
more than brutal. I made every effort to do good among them, and endeavored to preach to them
on several occasions, but was interrupted and deterred by the whites, who forbade my preaching.
I talked to the blacks, however, whenever opportunity occurred, and I hope that my labors for
Jesus were not in vain.

The last day of my month came and passed. It was Friday. On Saturday morning, about three o'clock,
I started for home, and with rapid walking I reached my destination about two hours after sunrise.
When I reached the plantation I "cut across lots," and passed through the field where Wilson
was at work with the hands. I approached, unobserved by him, and spoke to him. He looked at
me with astonishment, and in surprise asked, "What are you doing here?"

"You told me to stay one month; I done so," I answered.

"Did Mr. Leadbitter know when you left?"

"I do not know, sir," I replied. "I left at three o'clock this morning, and did not think it
worth while to disturb Mr. Leadbitter's rest."

"Three o'clock!" exclaimed Wilson.

"Yes, sir," I quietly answered.

"You ran away, did you?"

"No, sir, I did not run away. I stayed as long as you required me to stay, when, in obedience
to your expressed promises, I came home."

James Wilson made some remark I could not understand, but finally said that as I had come home
he had some work for me to do before I could hire myself out. I felt somewhat easy in my mind,
and waited to be set to work. But when he afterwards told me he wanted me to take a load of
cotton to Memphis, my heart misgave me, I felt sure, in my mind, that I was to be sold from
the slave-pens at Memphis. The grand trial time had now come for me, and the teachings of my
mother and uncle Ben and uncle Jack before and at our final separation came to me in full force.
They taught me, before I could read for myself, that in trouble I should rely implicitly on
the help of my Savior, and that I should pray without ceasing. To God I immediately turned
for guidance and help, and asked that my every step might be directed by him, and that he should
protect me from my enemies and persecutors.

I felt that I was being persecuted for Jesus' sake, for I was promised, time and again, that
if I would quit preaching and talking to the slaves on religious subjects, I should be advanced
and my life made easy and comfortable. I refused the offers, because my Master's work was of
more importance than my ease. I was impressed, deeply, with the great responsibilities resting
upon me, and was determined to preach and teach while I had strength and opportunity to do
so. I may have been mistaken with regard to the cause of my persecution by the Wilsons, but
I think not. I do not really believe that any one is persecuted for Christ's sake in this day
and age of the world, in a Christian country, except in the South before the rebellion. I have
heard men, and, I am almost ashamed to say, preachers, proclaim that they were persecuted because
of their adherence to the cause of Christ, when they were not persecuted at all on any account,
except probably on account of some wrong act of their own. Paul and the apostles were persecuted,
and early Christians were persecuted, but who ever heard of a citizen of the United States
being persecuted because he was a follower of Jesus! But slaves in the South were persecuted
and punished severely for preaching the gospel of Christ, not on that very account probably,
but because it would teach the slaves obedience to a higher power than the inhuman laws of
the southern states as they then existed. Paul was persecuted for preaching the redemption
of mankind through the blood of the Savior, by pagans and gentiles. I was persecuted for the
same reasons by the slave-owners of the South, and for endeavoring to lead the benighted blacks
to Jesus. There seems to be some likeness in the positions of Paul and myself. I felt that
was the case, at any rate.

My mind was distressed with the fear that I was being sent to Memphis only to be sold to the
highest bidder. After addressing the throne of God for help and deliverance I felt relieved,
and determined that, come what would, I would use my best talents and exertions for my heavenly
Master wherever I might be. Relieved, I set about making preparations for my trip to Memphis,
with a prayerful heart. Two of us were going in company, each with a load of cotton. We started
on Monday morning, and traveled along without unusual trouble or delay for three days over
hilly and rough roads, when we camped for the night within a mile of Holly Springs, in Mississippi,
and about fifty-five miles from home.

It will be remembered that uncle Ben was sold by Wilson to a man who lived in and near Holly
Springs. I was anxious to see uncle Ben, if possible, and began making inquiries regarding
his whereabouts. More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment distracting
him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy. Finally, I Mari Pepa thought. Mari
Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming it will come Lita too, and under the
pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day and make this big house an aviary.
You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco. The laws of the southern states did not recognize the legal relations
of man and wife between slaves, therefore they could not commit the crime of bigamy. If Ben
was morally guilty, he was forced into his guilt by law and general custom. I had not seen
Ben for about ten years, and was so overjoyed at the prospect of seeing him that I could scarcely
wait until night, for I was informed that he would not be at his cabin until night. After attending
to my affairs about town I waited until sundown, when I went to the house indicated by my informant.
Not being certain that the person who lived in the cabin was my uncle, I necessarily had to
make inquiries. A colored woman met me at the door, and answered such questions as I asked,
from which I was satisfied that Ben lived here. I informed the woman who I was and that Ben
was my uncle, and that I had called, in passing on my way to Memphis, to see him. She cordially
invited me to enter the cabin, and told me that Ben was out feeding the horses and would shortly
be in. I had to wait but a little while when Ben came in. He supposed me to be some passing
stranger, and did not recognize me. After some desultory conversation I told him who I was
and how I came to be there. Our meeting, after mutual recognition, was affectionate and cordial.
We talked over old times and related our experience since we parted at the Wilson plantation.
We kneeled at the family altar, and each poured out his soul's thanksgiving to God for his
goodness to us, having, before I left, a season of soul-reviving prayer.

Thus we knelt, uncle Ben, his wife, and I, poor slaves in the chains of bondage, really and
earnestly thanking God for the many blessings we received. Strange, was it not? when men and
women rolling in wealth and all the luxuries and happiness that wealth could purchase, did
not even deign to notice the source from whence all their blessings flowed. They had life and
liberty, and were unrestrained in the pursuit of happiness, yet not once did they thank the
great Giver of all their good. Then what had we, poor wretches, to thank God for? For everything
we enjoyed,--for life, for the blessed plan of salvation, for our senses of seeing, hearing,
and feeling, for our hearts with which to love him, for our humanity, for the great gifts of
sunshine, rain, regulated seasons, the moon, the stars, the earth, the trees, the brooks, the
rivers,--everything truly enjoyable we thanked God for. We thanked him for health and strength
to do his work. Then we had a great deal to thank Almighty God for, although slaves. How many
of you ever think to thank God for sunshine or for reason? Let me illustrate. A gentleman was
passing along the highway, when he was met by a poor maniac, who accosted him, saying, "What
do you thank God for?" The gentleman being surprised by the abrupt question did not reply immediately,
when the maniac continued, "Then thank God for your reason; mine is gone; I'm mad--a maniac."
This was something the gentleman had never thought of before, and it opened to his mind an
entirely new source of thankfulness. We are apt to forget that we are not slaves, not blind,
deaf, or dumb, and not insane; yet should we lose any one of our five senses we would then
know how to be thankful for and appreciate that sense should we regain it. Then thank God for
everything, your very existence included. If she wanted to be silent
as death when it comes to that meeting and what followed was "the Xs such respect or" man would
not object because it was "a natural and generous gentleman, and enter all known cases. "
 What a shout of joy would greet his appearance, and glad
hearts would pour out thanks upon thanks to the great Giver for the needful sunshine. Then
let us be thankful for all the great blessings bestowed upon us by our heavenly Father, and
serve him with all our hearts, in whatever position in life we may be placed. Uncle Ben and
I did then, and we do yet.

After a prolonged conversation and a good and refreshing season of prayer I took my departure
for my camp, never expecting to meet my relative again, and never have.

We started next morning on our way to Memphis, and traveled into Memphis, after three days,
on a very fine road for the South, known as the state-line road. We drove to the cotton-yard,
unloaded, and received the receipts for the cotton, and put up for the night at a wagon-yard.
I spent this night in prayer and supplication that God would save me from the slave-pen and
the auctioneer's block; and my prayers were responded to in my protection. The next morning
we started for home by what was known as the pigeon-roost route, in order to save toll and
other expenses.

The weight on my mind was removed, and I felt happy and thankful. I was not sold from the shambles.
I prayed, I sung, and I shouted by turns. We arrived at home, and I waited patiently for my
next order.

My young master soon informed me, however, that I might hire myself out, if I could find and
one that would hire me. Good! God was on my side. With a light heart and truly happy I set
about my preparations to hire myself out; and the very first thing I did was to go to my cabin
and thank God for his goodness, and ask for his protection and guidance. Always praying? Yes,
I was always at it. My heart was big with love to God.

It was customary in the slave states to allow slaves to hire themselves for their masters to
such as the slaves themselves desired to work for. Sometimes this arrangement was made to save
the master trouble. In my case I was instructed to find a place to work at thirty dollars per
month and board, and then to return and report to Wilson, who would then give the necessary
permission in writing, which would stand as a contract between him and my employer.

