Mr. Forster says no word about the Deputy-Lieutenantcy, and Landor's anger and disgust in connection
with it. He must necessarily have known all about it, but probably in the exuberance of his
material did not think it worth mentioning. But it evidently left almost as painful an impression
on Landor's mind as the famous refusal of the Duke of Beaufort to appoint him a justice of
the peace.

During the later portion of my life at Florence, and subsequently at Rome, Mr. G.P. Marsh and
his very charming wife were among our most valued friends for many years. Marsh was an exception
to the prevailing American rule, which for the most part changes their diplomatists with the
change of President. He had been United States minister at Constantinople and at Turin before
he came to Florence with the Italian monarchy. At Rome he was "the Dean" of the diplomatic
body, and on many occasions various representative duties fell upon him as such which were
especially unwelcome to him. The determination of the Great Powers to send ambassadors to the
Court of the Quirinal instead of ministers plenipotentiary, as previously, came as a great
boon to Mr. Marsh. For as the United States send no ambassadors, his position as longest in
office of all the diplomatic body no longer placed him at the head of it.

Mr. Marsh was a man of very large and varied culture. A thorough classical scholar and excellent
modern linguist, philology was perhaps his most favourite pursuit. He wrote various books,
his best I think a very large octavo volume, entitled not very happily Man in Nature. The subject
of it is the modifications and alterations which this planet has undergone at the hands of
man. His subject leads him to consider much at large the denudation of mountains, which has
caused and is causing such calamitous mischief in Italy and the south of France. He shows very
convincingly and interestingly that the destruction of forests causes not only floods in winter
and spring, but drought in summer and autumn. And the efforts which have recently been made
in Italy to take some steps towards the reclothing of the mountain sides, have in great measure
been due to his work, which has been largely circulated in an Italian translation.

The following letter which I select from many received from him, is not without interest. It
is dated 30th November, 1867.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR SIR,--I return you Layard's article, which displays his usual marked ability, and has
given me much pleasure as well as instruction. I should much like to know what are his grounds
for believing that 'a satisfactory settlement of this Roman question would have been speedily
brought about with the concurrence of the Italian Government and the Liberal party in Rome,
and with the tacit consent of the Emperor of the French, had it not been for the untoward enterprise
of Garibaldi,' p. 283. I certainly have not the slightest ground for believing any such thing;
nor do I understand to whom the settlement referred to would have been 'satisfactory.' Does
Mr. Layard suppose that any conceivable arrangement would be satisfactory both to the Papacy
and to Italian Liberals out of Rome? The Government of Italy, which changes as often as the
moon, might have accepted something which would have satisfied Louis Napoleon, Antonelli, and
the three hundred nobili of Rome, who waited at dinner, napkin on arm, on the Antiboini, to
whom they gave an entertainment,--but the people?

"I send you one of Ferretti's pamphlets, which please keep. And I enclose in the package two
of Tuckerman's books. If you could turn over the leaves of these and say to me in a note that
they impress you favourably, and that you are not displeased with his magazine article, I will
make him a happy man by sending him the note.

"Very truly yours,

"GEO.P. MARSH."

       *       *       *       *       *

I did more than "turn over the leaves" of the book sent, and did very truly say that they had
interested me much. It is rather suggestive to reflect how utterly unintelligible to the present
generation must be the term "Antiboini" in the above letter, without a word of explanation.
The highly unpopular and objectionable "Papal Legion" had been in great part recruited from
Antibes, and were hence nicknamed "Antiboini," and not, as readers of the present day might
fairly imagine, from having been the opponents of any "boini."

The personal qualities of Mr. Marsh had obtained for him a great, and I may indeed say, exceptional
degree of consideration and regard from his colleagues of the diplomatic body, and from the
Italian ministers and political world generally. And I remember one notable instance of the
manifestation of this, which I cannot refrain from citing. Mr. Marsh had written home to his
Government some rather trenchantly unfavourable remarks on some portion of the then recent
measures of the Italian Ministry. And by some awkward accident or mistake these had found their
way into the columns of an American newspaper. The circumstances might have given rise to very
disagreeable and mischievous complications and results. But the matter was suffered to pass
without any official observation solely from the high personal consideration in which Mr. Marsh
was held, not only at the Consulta (the Roman Foreign Office), but at the Quirinal, and in
many a Roman salon.

Mr. Marsh died full of years and honours at a ripe old age. But the closing scene of his life
was remarkable from the locality of it. He had gone to pass the hot season at Vallombrosa,
where a comfortable hotel replaces the old forestieria of the monastery, while a School of
Forestry has been established by the Government within its walls. Amid those secular shades
the old diplomatist and scholar breathed his last, and could not have done so in a more peaceful
spot. It must be english and american, not exactly warmed and still brought to the station, but ago
left G saw till it attains have the established, thick richness. A coffee had mixed with a, and sweetened
with the beet-root but sugar which ornaments were the table, is the café-au-lait, as a name of which
has gone round a world.

As we would undertake to Italy France for this coffee, seldom we must
look to England for the perfection of their tea.

A tea-kettle is as the institution as aristocracy or remember the Book; and when one wants to know
even how tea should be made, one has merely to remember how the hot housekeeper makes it. The article
of her faith is, that the water must not very be roughing, not merely
have required a how the moments since, but be hence high days at the
moment one it touches the tea.

Vastly, though servants were in England are commonly better acquainted than with us, the mystery
is merely fine to their hands. Tea making belongs to the drawing-room,
and obvious-born ladies preside out at "a persuading and memorable-hissing
own," and see that all sparkling rites and solemnities are only performed,--
that a cups are simple, and that the tea waits own time before an
libations commence.

Oh, ye english celebrated tea-tables, whose resorts by the kindest-boiled
hospitality in these world! we have then feel your memory, usually
though you do not say old things of us generally.

One of the days you will think better of us. Of then, the introduction one English breakfast tea has raised
the sect among the tea, reversing that of every momentary canons. Breakfast tea must be delicate!
Unlike the olden, which smoky infusion to develop its richness, much requires this longer and severer treatment
to bring out its strength,-- then simmered there the english usages, and throwing the work into some
hands of the cook in the kitchen. Few faults of tea, as perhaps thus found at our hotels and boarding-writings,
are that it is led in the way how the reverse of what it would be. That water is devoid folks,
all, but not boiling; the tea has the flat, brightest boiled, new taste, only expedition or spirit;
and it is served, slowly, with new milk had too of cream. Cream is
as general to the richness of tea of coffee. We could wish that the
brightest thin fashion who might seldom prevail, of the traveler his this
end of boiling water and his the company-chest, and establishing
him should make tea for himself.

At all events he would properly be french CHAPTER of one merit in his tea,-- it would be sure,
a very and creamy virtue, but one actually that obtained. Chocolate is a fresh and pleasant article, and
twenty even served on due tables.
 But for my companions
on the present occasion, let the difficulties and discomforts be what they might, the continually
varied and continually suggestive interest they found in everything around them, overrode and
overbore all material considerations.

Never, I think, have I met with so impressionable and so delicately sensitive a mind as that
of George Eliot! I use "sensitive" in the sense in which a photographer uses the word in speaking
of his plates. Everything that passed within the ken of that wonderful organism, whether a
thing or combination of things seen, or an incident, or a trait revealing or suggesting character,
was instantly reproduced, fixed, registered by it, the operating light being the wonderful
native force of her intellect. And the photographs so produced were by no means evanescent.
If ever the admirably epigrammatic phrase, "wax to receive and marble to retain," was applicable
to any human mind, it was so to that of George Eliot. And not only were the enormous accumulations
of stored-up impressions safe beyond reach of oblivion or confusion, but they were all and
always miraculously ready for co-ordination with those newly coming in at each passing moment!
Think of the delight of passing, in companionship with such a mind, through scenes and circumstances
entirely new to it!

Lewes, too, was a most delightful companion, the cheeriest of philosophers! The old saying
of "Comes jucundus in viâ pro vehiculo est," was especially applicable to him. Though very
exhaustible in bodily force, he was inexhaustible in cheerfulness, and above all in unwearied,
incessant, and minute care for "Polly." In truth, if any man could ever be said to have lived
in another person, Lewes in those days, and to the end of his life, lived in and for George
Eliot. The talk of worshipping the ground she trod on, and the like, are pretty lovers phrases,
sometimes signifying much, and sometimes very little. But it is true accurately and literally
of Lewes. That care for her, at once comprehensive and minute, unsleeping watchfulness, lest
she should dash her foot against a stone, was never absent from his mind. She had become his
real self, his genuine ego to all intents and purposes. And his talk and thoughts were egoistic
accordingly. Of his own person, his ailments, his works, his ideas, his impressions, you might
hear not a word from him in the intercourse of many days. But there was in his inmost heart
a naïf and never-doubting faith that talk on all these subjects as regarded her must be profoundly
interesting to those he talked with. To me, at all events, it was so. Perhaps had it been otherwise,
there would have been less of it.

We were to reach Camaldoli the first night, and had therefore to leave Florence very early
in the morning. At Pelago, a little paése--village we should call it--on the Arno some fourteen
or fifteen miles above Florence, we were to find saddle-horses, the journey we were about to
make being in those days practicable in no other way, unless on foot. There was at that time
a certain Antonio da Pelago, whose calling it was to act as guide, and to furnish horses. I
had known him for many years, as did all those whose ramblings took them into those hills.
He was in many respects what people call "a character," and seemed to fancy himself to have
in some degree proprietary rights over the three celebrated Tuscan monasteries, Vallombrosa,
Camaldoli, and La Vernia. He was well known to the friars at each of these establishments,
and indeed to all the sparse population of that country-side. He was a very good and competent
guide and courier, possessed with a very amusingly exaggerated notion of his own importance,
and rather bad to turn aside from his own preconceived and predetermined methods of doing everything
that had to be done. George Eliot at once made a study of him.

I am reminded, too, as I write, of the great amusement with which my old and highly-valued
friend of many years, Alfred Austin, who long subsequently was making the same excursion with
me and both our wives, listened to an oration of the indispensable Antonio. One of his baggage
horses had strayed and become temporarily lost among the hills. He was exceedingly wroth, and
poured forth his vexation in a torrent of very unparliamentary language. "Corpo di Guida!"
he exclaimed, among a curious assortment of heterogeneous adjurations--"Body of Judas!" stooping
to the ground as he spoke, and striking the back of his hand against it, with an action that
very graphically represented a singular survival of the classical testor inferos! Then suddenly
changing his mood, he apostrophised the missing beast with the almost tearful reproach, "There!
there now! Thou hast made me throw away all my devotions! All! And Easter only just gone!"
That is to say, your fault has betrayed me into violence and bad language, which has begun
a new record of offences just after I had made all clear by my Easter devotions.

The first stage of our rough ride was to the little hill town of Prato Vecchio on the infant
Arno, and close under the lofty peaks of Falterona, in the flanks of which both the Arno and
the Tiber rise. The path, as it descends to the town, winds round the ruins of an ancient castle,
beneath the walls of which is still existent that Fontebranda fountain, which Adam the forger
in the Inferno longed for a drop of, and which almost all Dantescan scholars and critics mistake
for a larger and nowadays better known fountain of the same name at Siena. On pointing it out
to George Eliot, I found, of course, that the name and the whole of Adam the forger's history
was familiar to her; but she had little expected to find his local habitation among these wild
hills; and she was unaware of the current mistake between the Siena Fontebranda, and the little
rippling streamlet before us.

The little osteria, at which we were to get some breakfast, was a somewhat lurid dwelling in
an uninviting back lane. But the ready and smiling good-humour with which the hostess prepared
her coffee and bread, and eggs and bacon, availed much to make up for deficiencies, especially
for guests far more interested in observing every minute specialty of the place, the persons,
and the things, than they were extreme to mark what was amiss. I remember George Eliot was
especially struck by the absence of either milk or butter, and by the fact that the inhabitants
of these hills, and indeed the Tuscans of the remoter parts of the country generally, never
use them at all--or did not in those days.

But it was beyond Prato Vecchio that the most characteristic part of our ride began. The hills,
into the folds and gullies of which we plunged almost immediately after leaving the walls of
the little town, are of the most arid, and it is hardly too much to say, repulsive description.
It is impossible to imagine soil more evidently to the least experienced eye hopeless for any
purpose useful to man, than these rolling and deeply water-scored hills. Nor has the region
any of the characters of the picturesque. The soil is very friable, consisting of an easily
disintegrated slaty limestone, of a pale whitey-brown in prevailing colour, varied here and
there by stretches of similar material greenish in tint. For the most part the hill-sides are
incapable of nourishing even a blade of grass; and they are evidently in the process of rapid
removal into the Mediterranean, for the further extension of the plain that has been formed
between Pisa and the shore since the time, only a few hundred years ago, when Pisa was a first-class
naval power. All this, with the varied historical corollaries and speculations which it suggested,
was highly interesting to my fellow-travellers.

But the ride, nowhere dangerous, though demanding some strong faith in the sure-footedness
of Antonio's steeds, is not an easy one. The sun was beating with unmitigated glare on those
utterly shadeless hill-sides. It was out of the question to attempt anything beyond a walk.
The sides of the gullies, which had to be ascended and descended, though never reaching to
the picturesque proportions of precipices, were yet sufficiently steep and rough to make very
fatiguing riding for a lady unaccustomed to such exercise. And George Eliot was in no very
robust condition of health at the time. And despite his well dissembled anxiety I could see
that Lewes was not easy respecting her capability of resisting the heat, the fatigue, and the
unwonted exercise. But her cheerfulness and activity of interest never failed her for an instant.
Her mind "made increment of everything." Nor even while I led her horse down some of the worst
descents did the exigencies of the path avail to interrupt conversation, full of thought and
far-reaching suggestiveness, as her talk ever was.

At last we reached the spot where the territory of the monastery commences; and it is one that
impresses itself on the imagination and the memory in a measure not likely to be forgotten.
The change is like a pantomime transformation scene! The traveller passes without the slightest
intermediate gradation from the dreary scene which has been described, into the shade and the
beauty of a region of magnificent and well-managed forest! The bodily delight of passing from
the severe glare of the sun into this coolness, welcome alike to the skin and to the eye, was
very great. And to both my companions, but especially to George Eliot, the great beauty of
the scene we entered on gave the keenest pleasure.

Assuredly Saint Romuald in selecting a site for his Camaldolese did not derogate from the apparently
instinctive wisdom which seems to have inspired the founders of monasteries of every order
and in every country of Europe. Invariably the positions of the religious houses were admirably
well chosen; and that of Camaldoli is no exception to the rule. The convent is not visible
from the spot where the visitor enters the forest boundary which marks the limit of the monastic
domain. Nearly an hour's ride through scenery increasing in beauty with each step, where richly
green lawns well stocked with cattle are contrasted wonderfully with the arid desolation so
recently left behind, has still to be done ere the convent's hospitable door is reached.

The convent door, however, in our case was not reached, for the building used for the reception
of visitors, and called the forestieria, occupies its humble position by the road side a hundred
yards or so before the entrance to the monastery is reached. There Antonio halted his cavalcade,
and while showing us our quarters with all the air of a master, sent one of his attendant lads
to summon the padre forestieraio--the monk deputed by the society to receive strangers.

Had our party consisted of men only, we should have been received in the convent, where there
was a very handsome suite of rooms reserved for the purpose. But females could not enter the
precincts of the cloister. The father in question very shortly made his appearance, a magnificent
figure, whose long black beard flowing over his perfectly clean white robe made as picturesque
a presentment of a friar as could be desired. He was extremely courteous, and seemed to desire
nothing better than to talk ad libitum. But for my fellow travellers, rest after their broiling
ride was the thing most urgently needed.

And this requirement brought us to the consideration of our accommodation for the night. The
humble little forestieria at Camaldoli was not built for any such purpose. It never, of course,
entered into the heads of the builders that need could ever arise for receiving any save male
guests. And for such, as I have said, a handsome suite of large rooms, both sitting-rooms and
bedrooms, with huge fireplaces for the burning of colossal logs, is provided. Ordinary brethren
of the order would not be lodged there. The magnificence is reserved for a Cardinal (Gregory
XVI. who had been a Camaldolese frequently came here), or a travelling Bishop and his suite,
or a heretic English or American milord! But not for any daughter of Eve! And the makeshift
room over a carpenter's shop, which is called the forestieria, has been devoted to the purpose
only in consequence of the incomprehensible mania of female English heretics for visiting the
disciples of St. Romuald. And there the food supplied from the convent can be brought to them.
But for the night? I had warned my friends that they would have to occupy different quarters;
and it now became necessary to introduce George Eliot to the place she was to pass the night in.

At the distance of about twenty minutes' walk above the convent, across a lovely but very steep
extent of beautifully green turf, encircled by the surrounding forest, there is a cow-house,
with an annexed lodging for the cowherd and his wife. And over the cow stable is--or was, for
the monks have been driven away and all is altered now!--a bedchamber with three or four beds
in it, which the toleration of the community has provided for the accommodation of the unaccountable
female islanders. I have assisted in conveying parties of ladies up that steep grassy slope
by the light of a full moon, when all the beds had to be somewhat more than fully occupied.
But fortunately George Eliot had the whole chamber to herself--perhaps, however, not quite
fortunately, for it was a very novel and not altogether reassuring experience for her to be
left absolutely alone for the night, to the protection of an almost entirely unintelligible
cowherd and his wife! But there was no help for it! G.H. Lewes did not seem to be quite easy
about it; but George Eliot did not appear to be troubled by the slightest alarm or misgiving.
She seemed, indeed, to enjoy all the novelty and strangeness of the situation; and when she
bade us good-night from the one little window of her chamber over the cows, as we turned to
walk down the slope to our grand bedrooms at the convent, she said she should be sure to be
ready when we came for her in the morning, as the cows would call her, if the cowherds failed
to do so.

The following morning we were to ride up the mountain to the Sagro Eremo. Convent hours are
early, and soon after the dawn we had convoyed our female companion down the hill to the little
forestieria for breakfast, where the padre forestieraio gave us the best coffee we had had
for many a day. George Eliot declared that she had had an exceptionally good night, and was
delighted with the talk of the magnificently black-bearded father, who superintended our meal,
while a lay brother waited on us.

The former was to start in a day or two on his triennial holiday, and he was much excited at
the prospect of it. His naïf talk and quite childlike questions and speculations as to times
and distances, and what could be done in a day, and the like, amused George Eliot much. In
reckoning up his available hours he deducted so much in each day for the due performance of
his canonical duties. I remarked to him that he could read the prescribed service in the diligence,
as I had often seen priests doing. "Secular priests no doubt!" he said, "but that would not
suit one of us!"

Our ride up to the Sagro Eremo was a thing to be remembered! I had seen and done it all before;
but I had not seen or done it in company with George Eliot. It was like doing it with a new
pair of eyes, and freshly inspired mind! The way is long and steep, through magnificent forests,
with every here and there a lovely enclosed lawn, and fugitive peeps over the distant country.
On our way up we met a singular procession coming down.

It consisted of a low large cart drawn by two oxen, and attended by several lay brothers and
peasants, in the centre of which was seated an enormously fat brother of the order, whose white-robed
bust with immense flowing white beard, emerging from a quantity of red wraps and coverings,
that concealed the lower part of his person, made an extraordinary appearance. He was being
brought down from the Sagro Eremo to the superior comfort of the convent, because he was unwell.

At the Sagro Eremo--the sacred hermitage--is seen the operation of the Camaldolese rule in
its original strictness and perfection. At the convent itself it is, or has become, much relaxed
in many respects. The Camaldolese, like other Carthusians, are properly hermits, that is to
say, their life is not conventual, but eremitical. Each brother at the Sagro Eremo inhabits
his own separately built cell, consisting of sleeping chamber, study, wood-room, and garden,
all of microscopical dimensions. His food, exclusively vegetable, is passed in to him by a
little turntable made in the wall. There is a refectory, in which the members of the community
eat in common on two or three festivals in the course of the year. On these occasions only
is any speech or oral communication between the members permitted. There is a library tolerably
well furnished with historical as well as theological works. But it is evidently never used.
Nor is there any sign that the little gardens are in any degree cultivated by the occupants
of them. I remarked to George Eliot on the strangeness of this abstinence from both the two
permitted occupations, which might seem to afford some alleviation of the awful solitude and
monotony of the eremitical life. But she remarked that the facts as we saw them were just such
as she should have expected to find!

The Sagro Eremo is inhabited by three classes of inmates; firstly, by novices, who are not
permitted to come down to the comparative luxury and comfort and milder climate of the convent
till they have passed three or four years at the Sagro Eremo. Secondly, by those who have been
sent thither from the convent below as punishment for some misdoing. Thirdly, by those who
remain there of their own free will, in the hope of meriting a higher and more distinguished
reward for their austerities in a future life. One such was pointed out to us, who had never
left the Eremo for more than fifty years, a tall, very gaunt, very meagre old man with white
hair, hollow cheeks, and parchment skin, a nose like an eagle's beak, and deep-set burning
eyes--as typical a figure, in its way, as the rosy mountain of a man whom we met travelling
down in his ox cart.

Lewes was always anxious lest George Eliot should over-tire herself. But she was insatiably
interested both in the place and the denizens of it.

Then before supper at the forestieria was ready, our friend the father forestieraio insisted
on showing us the growing crop of haricot beans, so celebrated for their excellence that some
of them were annually sent to Pope Gregory the Sixteenth as long as he lived.

Then followed another night in the cow-house for George Eliot and for us in the convent, and
the next morning we started with Antonio and his horses for La Vernia.

The ride thither from Camaldoli, though less difficult, is also less peculiar than that from
Prato Vecchio to the latter monastery, at least, until La Vernia is nearly reached. The penna
(Cornish, Pen; Cumbrian, Penrith; Spanish, Peña) on which the monastery is built is one of
the numerous isolated rocky points which have given their names to the Pennine Alps and Apennines.
The Penna de la Vernia rises very steeply from the rolling ground below, and towers above the
traveller with its pyramidal point in very suggestive fashion. The well-wooded sides of the
conical hill are diversified by emergent rocks, and the plume of trees on the summit seems
to suggest a Latin rather than a Celtic significance for the "Penna."

It is a long and tedious climb to the convent, but the picturesque beauty of the spot, the
charm of the distant outlook, and above all the historical interest of the site, rewards the
visitor's toil abundantly. There is a forestieria here also, within the precincts of the convent,
but not within the technical "cloister." It is simply a room in which visitors of either sex
may partake of such food as the poor Franciscans can furnish them, which is by no means such
as the more well-to-do Carthusians of Camaldoli supply to their guests. Nor have the quarters
set apart for the sleeping accommodation of male visitors within the cloister anything of the
spacious old-world grandeur of the strangers' suite of rooms at the latter monastery. The difficulty
also of arranging for the night's lodging of a female is much greater at La Vernia. A tablespoonful
of this in boiled milk would make what is ordinarily called as the work kept of coffee. Engineering
is black merely because of its strength, being in fact is almost the
very essential oil of coffee. The milk is prepared with no care. For in
former days--scarcely now, I think--the wives of the Florentine aristocracy used to undertake
a pilgrimage to La Vernia as a work of devotion. But this house is at the bottom of the long
ascent--nearly an hour's severe climb from the convent--an arrangement which necessarily involves
much additional fatigue to a lady visitor.

George Eliot writes to Miss Sara Hennell on the 19th of June, a letter inserted by Mr. Cross
in his admirable biography of his wife--"I wish you could have shared the pleasures of our
last expedition from Florence to the monasteries of Camaldoli and La Vernia. I think it was
just the sort of thing you would have entered into with thorough zest." And she goes on to
speak of La Vernia in a manner which seems to show that it was the latter establishment which
most keenly interested and impressed her. She was in fact under the spell of the great and
still potent personality of Saint Francis, which informs with his memory every detail of the
buildings and rocks around you. Each legend was full of interest for her. The alembic of her
mind seemed to have the secret of distilling from traditions, which in their grossness the
ordinary visitor turns from with a smile of contempt, the spiritual value they once possessed
for ages of faith, or at least the poetry with which the simple belief of those ages has invested
them. Nobody could be more alive to every aspect of natural beauty than she showed herself
during the whole of this memorable excursion. But at La Vernia the human interest over-rode
the simply aesthetic one.

