Fellows, Saul the Pharisee had zeal without knowledge. He blazed away upon the presumption
that Jesus was an impostor. Why, the Jesus idea was preposterous, Saul mused. God's Kingdom
was to be set up with a great capital at Jerusalem and a great and powerful king on the throne
to whom all the world around would come and pay tribute. Anybody who claimed that the King
had already come and been crucified like a thief was a dangerous fanatic and should be haled
to prison or put to death.

This brilliant young Pharisee, carefully trained in ecclesiastical law and the traditions of
the elders, went forth bitterly persecuting the followers of Jesus--even witnessing and approving
the cruel stoning of Stephen. This showed Saul's Purpose and Determination, which he mistook
for being Right. 

XIII

I confess, with characteristic candor that is me, I've been
tempted to paint the Conde de Alhedín as a seductive evil, demonic
and profound in its schemes and plans war.

"In this way - I told myself when these things were happening and I was not even in the secret
- if Dona Beatriz has indeed been seduced, his fall will have some excuse, and, if it has been,
its success will be more glorious and memorable. "

Nothing, however, that disgusts me more than lying.

Not even like to appeal to her to write a story. And as the Count of Alhedín exists in reality
and I know him and treatment, it makes me guilty about presenting different than it is, even
wrapping in the veil of a pseudonym.

The Count of Alhedín, to the credit of the truth, nothing more than a good boy, if we the judge
with the relaxed criteria used in the world.

The Count of Alhedín is so far from being a Don Juan Tenorio as far
heaven on earth.

Has never employed deceit and violence against unmarried or married.

I also assured that, if it was self-examination, however severe and
scrupulous was before the era of our history, would never come to
persuade himself that he had seducing any woman.

Finding easy and abundant harvest of laurels between the seductive
and seduced and had no Count the bad idea to lose to any candid and
innocent maiden, or to disturb the holy peace of a marriage as well-matched
model, exemplary and loving.

If in some cases recognizing the Earl had been mutual seduction, in
the most, with notable comfort of his mind and no prejudice to his
vanity short, the Count did not see his own person but to the suffering,
that is, to the truly seduced.

Not one of his conquests had until then hints of tragic character. No Conde accused of having
started from the front one the bright halo of holiness and purity. There was no woman who had fallen
for him a sacred pedestal where there been before, but never touch the mud of the earth, without
in the least tarnish the clear whiteness of the hem of her robe. Or the Count was one of many,
and not first in a series more or less long and varied, or, if such had been the first the devil
himself had cleared before the roads so smooth and maliciously, that could be fed give and
forfeit what he had to lose, and only Condesito his heart to conscience and a young philosopher
in the fable, for yielding to the specious argument fragility These
verses state:

Take it for his life, and consider someone else to
eat if you do not want.

When I stop to think about a heroic virtue in a thought occurs to
me that I am truly sorry enough.

True, there are still, and will continue to secure civil and international wars, revolutions violent,
pests, diseases and a host of other plagues that God is willing and able to prove and exercise
our patience. True that we are all doomed to die, and not bad guy death, especially when viewed
from the summit of life, in full enjoyment of the youth and vigor of our spring healthy, but
in normal circumstances in life bourgeois political order and today lives, it is difficult
if not impossible, to appear or give in any case subject of heroism, of extraordinary suffering,
of Fortitude sublime or otherwise under great and amazing, not to appear or be given as a reason
or occasion in another subject or several, a case of vice or malice or ferocity not least out
of all reasonable time. For there to be a regular there must needs be Carthaginians to have
wise quiet drink hemlock judges must needs be wicked who hate their discretions and wisdom to convict
him drink, and to have martyrs who leave skin or to let roast simmered in a gridiron must needs be
so hardened tyrants and heinous crimes, being ordered around skinning and roasting they did not
lend to worship idols or other nonsense like that.

Now I do not know if fortunately or unfortunately, but it's true that evil and mischievous superlative
degree and extreme as they become more rare each day, and therefore the rough path of virtue and
macadamized paving will, without those who have under in that grade
achieved almost never occasion to wear it are forced to keep dormant
in the depths of their hearts.

I would not, therefore, alter the truth of my story and go against this law of human progress
becoming a monster Alhedín Count.

Let's stick to the truth.

The Condesito, as I said already, was a great guy, light, fun friend, very tempted to laugh,
but better than bread.

His mother, the Dowager Countess, idolized him and pampered him forever, but the pampering, far
to pervert the good natures, make them better and sweeter the gall to make syrup.

For Condesito was easy to be good. Unenviable. All smiled. We have said that Hard had fifteen thousand
of income, which was of good family and was in perfect health. There was no physical exercise
that did not shine, great rider, accurate pistol shooter, agile and
skillful in fencing and valsador airy and graceful.

His jokes were laughed at, his discreteos concluded. Everyone believed him capable of the most
serious business if he could someday be used them their time and abilities.

Earl lived with his mother, but in a huge mansion, which enjoyed full independence. So I got friends
and visitors of various kinds without his mother, or by chance, had to stumble and give them
understood anything.

The Countess, however, not unaware of the frivolous and rather dissipated life of his son.
La Condesa she longed to leave her, to marry now, and that, done everything a parent, mixed in the
politics of his country and was a statesman.

The Countess was a lady in every sense of the word and is perfectly
suited old.

Was closer to fifty than forty, while retaining more than a few remnants of once admired her beauty.
He dressed in severe elegance and remarkable simplicity. Was without affectation or religious
fanaticism. And he was very much against what they call the spirit century, but regretted that
the Spanish aristocracy lacked class spirit and was, therefore, unable to be counted as a political
element, though, considered isolation, not enough worth less individuals that belong to it
many of those who clamber to the highest positions and rule and govern,
starting from the humblest parts of the social sphere.

Not so disunited Countess walked with the times we live in, because clearly perceived that
the invasion and rise of commoners came from far behind clever and it was not the day. The
aristocracy, she thought, was slumbering in a golden bondage centuries, and that content or
resigned with vain distinctions aulic, leaving the influence and control to Cisneros, the
Pérez and Vázquez, being Spain a democracy monkish, and winning now
be mesocracia something of a layman.

La Condesa, at least, not that we go out accountable for their judgments,
and explained, a synthetic way, the history of his homeland.

It was from here that, in pure noble and ancient hatred of democracy, the Countess was almost
liberal and progressive.

Preferred to valid domain of a bully, whom the monarch pulled out
of nowhere, this command that classes called conservative, something
which came through it, although mixed with unstable imitation of the
aristocracy of good law and the furious barrage of unjustified improvised
notables.

In sum, and this is what you will, the Countess wanted her son to not consume the youth all in courtship
and entertainment, but that it should be formal and pro man, and
added to the new luster inherited nobility and coats of arms with
the acquired talent and other personal items.

We know that the Earl had spent the summer without leaving Madrid. The countess had not gone either.

We
are in the month of October.

Almost all the elegant ladies who went to Biarritz, a Spa and other points, and had made a visit
to Paris, were already back from the summer expedition. They came, as was natural, full of finery and
workmanship of Worth, the Ferrière, Alexandre and other artists;
gala they were about to wear during the winter.

Among these ladies expeditionary and reinstalled and near their dollars are telling the cute
Adela Condesito premium.

He was goodness personified, without bordering on stupid, and was also sole heir, hoping to be
richer than its cousin when they inherit. The widowed Countess she
wanted to marry her son.

Had tried several times to induce the claim. He had always been in vain.

Now, three or four days after arriving Adela, Countess called one morning to his son to his room,
between eleven and one before lunch, and took with him the next important conference.

XIV

      After the usual affectionate greetings and a brief preamble on trivial
matters, Mother and son sitting in comfortable chairs and facing it
from him, the Countess went on as follows:

- Well you know, Ricardo
mine, that I've been lenient with you.

So I lost all moral force, and only if I am with authority and courage to give advice.

- The kindness of you to me can not and should diminish the respect
and veneration I look at you, mother - said Ricardo -.

And to advise me not to send you have authority, and must have value. I will obey you if you are
in my power to obey.

- I do not intend to obey me, but I listen and let yourself be persuaded by my arguments. It's
a shame to waste your time as any light-headed lad, without dedicating yourself to anything seriously.
To a certain age is forgivable that way of life, but now you're older and you ought to serve
your home and show your worth ... Why do not you choose MP? Why do not interrogate on your own
opinions, you forge your political persuasion, you trace your line of conduct and get into
public life? Are you going to grow old,

In cynical and despicable being single

as he said, perhaps fed up sharply, the austere and satirical poet, doing nothing but woo light
women? Why do not you marry a good woman, your class, and you form a family?

This barrage of questions answered with plenty of rest the Condesito:

- All the excitement of you, dear mother, are so good, I would without hesitation the if it were
up to me to follow. Unfortunately, this does not depend on me. To be a deputy, it is important
something to be proposed, and I all I propose. I declare yourself: mind a political opinions
and draw a line of conduct. But in vain I ask myself: I do not know what I dread what I believe.
Almost all parties seem to me well and I look bad. I do not know what join. Do I have to invent
me a new party when there are so many? Furthermore, it is not so easy to invent that game. For
their faith, just occurs to me another article of faith that constitutional decision of the year
1812, that all Spanish are fair and beneficial. Otherwise I do not care. I love freedom as a
means, and progress as an end but I love in a vague and lofty and comprehensive, which provides in
practice a thousand interpretations. So on the one hand amoldaría me almost every game means
accepting its principles, and on the other side would be unruly or undisciplined in every game,
because its leading figures I am not happy. In short: I notice that I lack a vocation for politics.
I am most purpose for contemplation to action. Believe me, I would obnoxiously; desluciría
me if I metiese a republic. Why do we have to be so heavy all actors drama, which lasts forever
without ever reaching the end? Is it not enough that a convicted to be a spectator? Look, mother,
I'm tired of attending this drama, that never ends which is always the same, where tangles of entanglements,
changing decorations, and entry and exit of people, almost all do wrong, and in which there is
no beginning and no argument purpose, nor word nor thought. Imagine yourself, for if I get
tired of being a mere spectator, spectator inattentive and distracted, how I tired if you complain
a role and trying to represent. Undeceive you: politics is a tedious job, which only must exercise
those without money or position, and need to acquire them, but I, I have my flow, I can and
should be more useful to my country and myself watching this flow, and improving and increasing public
wealth, not adding one more individual to the number disproportionate and those who are fighting
the portfolios, the full powers and general directions. I'm so skeptical, you miss to believe
in the beliefs of others. It seems to me that most consistent are often the least sincere,
that they are consistent by dint of being stubborn. Adopt an opinion, as they could have adopted
another, without faith and charity, and and are always for to say that they do their role, and
because the end is easier to play a role I say the same thing, whatever they may be circumstances,
which no other paper which say many different things, depending on amount may from time to
time not only to the private good or singular, but the public good. With this reflection I
am inclined to forgive the apostasy; but as my mind is a perpetual contradiction, reflect something
else and then condemn hard on apostates and fickle.

The suspect concerned and rogues. Misgivings no change in good faith, but because they want
to be on top and make a killing. In short, what talk more? I am unable to politics. Easier it
would give me a philosopher, a naturalist or poet. Is not it better, however, take care of
my finances in holy peace, and try to be a good citizen, useful and active member of the social
body, and a nice gentleman and entertaining? Now that there is little fool or rascal is not
a wise goal or governor of the town or a major character, now, that all men are forever throwing speeches
scientific societies, in clubs, assemblies and other light sources, is not should be some who
go to salons for the poor women are not left alone, with no one to talk and entertain a little?
You see if I have reason to follow away from politics. As for the other council capital from
you, I have nothing to object. In fact, I married, but I do not want to marry to get married.
To get that fearful union, that only death breaks, I find women whom you trust and love, and
whose spirit is open to me and show me that can be durable, strong, holy, intimate communion
with him. Let you find that woman and I will point married.

- Sorry to tell you, Richard - said the Countess - that everything you're saying is heap of sophistry
and extravagance. If I indeed, and certainly not I, that Politics is only a means to thrive
in most of those engaged in it, more blame even the selfish who will not intervene in politics because
they are doing quite well. Still must presume that the materially seeking is also seeking personal
gain applause, glory, and feel moved by the desire to do good to everyone, after all is not
incompatible with his singular good, but the lazy, cold-hearted, the unbeliever, who, not
and because it does not need to bother thrive, because it is not
involved in anything, and do not know rather than censor everything,
and says a thousand wrongs and no remedy to one of the latter, I say,
not no soul, the generous and benevolent that is, that lends itself
to assume anything good.

The latter is worse and more despicable than the politicians interested hustler assets. Pursued;
works to end, and it's worth, and perhaps does good general, or try
to do, at the expense of fatigue and danger, when it seeks also, as
is lawful and natural, his own aggrandizement and profit.

What ancient hero, what a warrior, what a great political story that extols the has been so
absurdly selfless as it must be to be free of your invective? So much for politics. As for your
marriage, I will not deny you're right women want to own one with
the garments of which you speak, but why do not you look?

Has it happened to pass before your eyes? Did you open your mind to yours and has show that
deserves to enter into intimate communion with him, without you even
take the job to knock on the door?

Are you going to find anything that treasure you need among the adventurous gallant with the ladies,
among whom married bad fall in love?

- Mother, I now intend to fall in love or any adventure, any gallant lady, to any unhappily
married. If you have such news, you are misinformed.

- Well then, why do not you go to your cousin Adela? It seems that the sky goes for you. It's
so good, it's so quiet in the midst of his innocence!

Speaking in confidence ... believe it very likely to fall in love with you. I'm sure you would
love.

- Mother's love maybe blind you, but although it tend to love,
how I I send my heart to love you? I do not love, without love I will
not marry any woman.

- You love, I know, which can not be your wife,
for that is another - he finally said the Countess, can not suffer
further transgressions of his child.

- I've told you I do not love
any woman now married.

- I heard you are in relationship with the
wife of a clerk in the Treasury, with a adventurer who goes home to
the Countess of San Teódulo.

- Mother, who may have told lies. Neither
I am in relations with that woman or that woman is an adventurer.
Caro would cost any man who dared to qualify such in my presence.

-
You yourself tell what. The vehemence with which the test defend me
even more than love. Such Once the woman has bewitched. The thing
is worse than I suspected.

They are planning another big "hike"--one that will be full of hardship and perils, and Paul
and Barnabas are having a hot discussion about Mark. Barnabas wants to take him and Paul wants
to leave him--and why? Well, last year when they were taking a trip of this kind, Mark left
them and went back home. Paul says he's done with Mark; if a fellow hasn't got a backbone better
than a stick of spaghetti, he doesn't want to load up with him. Imagine you, how I
have to be able to marry that the general's nephew, still madly in love with someone else?
Be rich, be handsome, will count, will be all that the general will, though I suspect I do not
know why, that must be an Andalusian gentleman, born and raised in a poblachón, lisping much,
throwing it so funny, and more on purpose to shine at trade shows, dress nice, and capture the
heart of the Roma and the cool, who agrees to appear as the elegant rooms, inspiring true and
deep love to a young lady and make well-educated then happy. You see, Mom, I have no reason
to love your nephew and future to prefer my Greek. And do not give me the objection that my
Greek is to be a heretic or schismatic. Fixed-that is very good Catholic. If it were, there would be
such a good friend of Father Gonzalez, who I introduced him in the sacristy, for over a week.
Do you hear, Mom? ... What? ... Do you I want to go crazy? Now it is the Father Gonzalez, who
answered me. He says that the narcissistic Greek is not natural and ever, but migratory and temporary.
Said to be the first secretary of the legation of Spain in Athens and Constantinople, who came to
Madrid for four months of licensed real.

(Back Manolita to talk by phone.)

Listen, Father González, whatever it is, you have nearly all the guilt that I have known and treated
narcissist, I have walked with him through the deserted streets of Retiro and along the banks
of the pond, leaving Dona Rita very respectable distance: so so You Have pity on us and preach
to my mother and generally not to persist in that I get married with
that abominable nephew ...

Heavens!

What props horrible, how complicated conspiracy against a poor inexperienced girl. I do not speak
the Father Gonzalez, the general tells me. Is your home and not the narcissist from which speaks
to me .-- Yes? ... Eh ... Today is outrageous to me more and more insolent than ever.

Mom has been playing with the doctor sitting with the Father González.

The general advantage the chance to unleash your tongue against me:

His nephew is not abominable, but adorable, that I presume too discreet and list and I'm a
spoiled little child, willful and stubborn, and that if he had presented to me Narcissistic and nephew,
I would have found it vulgar and ugly and had been jilted; and it has been necessary to build
all the props and conspiracy, in which mother entered the general,
the doctor, Father González and even Dona Rita, so I created a Greek
or Turkish narcissistic and he fell in love with me.

Look here, General, please report yourself and do not insult me. Think what you want. The I think
and argue is that I want and I need a narcissist, but I know I will
not say if, happy or angry, that is the nephew of you, and it is almost
as insolent as you, so mocking and so heartless. You offend me by
word, because it is far from me. But as each shovel of dirt landed on the horse's back, he shook his
skin, like horses do, and trod the dirt down under his feet. But appearances were against Dona Beatriz.

Declamaré "against it? What if he was innocent? What if appearances were deceptive? What if
she, still ignorant of life, did not notice that, inadvertently,
perhaps undeservedly, did fuel the gossip?

It would, finally, sick cruel that I crashed against the good Don
Braulio, who was so honest, so noble, so great, and whose only fault,
if fault was, arose from the tender love and indulgence well thought
that he looked at his wife. 

Passion therefore assumed. And once granted, is also meant he could not but be reciprocated.

The
lack of evidence that there was, the anger of the Count when they
began to tease with Dona Beatriz, their categorical denials and respect
and consideration that was ceremoniously in public this woman, all
served only to be amazed at the wonderful friends dissimulation of
prudence and noble noble secret of that happy mortal.

Rosita, whom the Count all trusted him, he wanted not infrequently find, secretly and to herself,
the truth of the case.

The Count denied that there was no case Rosita that redound to the
harm of Don Braulio, and showed anger that she believed she had, and
begged, and even demanded, to assuage such absurd rumors.

Unfortunately, it was not worth it to stop talking to Rosita Count
relations Dona Beatriz, and even that often argued loudly that there
was no such relationship; But quietly and hearing, Rosita used to
do great acclaim chivalry his friend, even she hoped her victory.

This silence was heroic, this disguise loudly demonstrated the vehemence and loftiness of a generous
affection.

- Comes to this end the Count - said Rosita - which will be able to have a challenge with which disclosed
there that Beatrice loves him.

- E pur si muove - added the poet Arthur, if by chance was there.

The rumor, supposition, slander, if it was slander, the gossip, in
short, if we call, moved quickly indeed portentous.

Just stayed at the villa crowned man or woman inducted into the anecdotal history of the Banquet
in the history that Asmodeus and his followers can not and should disclose in print, although
it has thousand clandestine oral chroniclers, which certainly did
not give as firm and tight loop linking the heart of Beatrix and Richard,
so they called the Count of Alhedín their intimate or those who wanted
to spend for such airs.

Don Braulio was perhaps the only one who knew everything, and people
were astonished at his ignorance.

More benign subjects said:

- It is not surprising.

The good lord is in the clouds forever. It is so distracted! Go: better way.
Others cried:

- It is well known that man is a true philosopher.

Others:

-
Who knows? These men do not incur severe clumsiness almost never find
out what not suit them.

Fellows, I cannot give you any finer thing out of that period of Paul's life, so full of fine
things, than the thought of patient waiting upon God's plan--His plan for you. He had no jealousy of any person determined and in
any case, the kind of admiration he professed the Count, had more confidence in it than any
other. Count imagined understand him, respected him and would not abuse their friendship even
if it could.