On returning to Quincy, one of the first things which received the attention of Mr. Adams,
was the discharge of a filial duty towards his deceased parents, in the erection of a monument
to their memory. The elder Adams in his will, among other liberal bequests, had left a large
legacy to aid in the erection of a new Unitarian church in Quincy. The edifice was completed,
and ex-President J. Q. Adams caused the monument to his father and mother to be erected within
the walls. It was a plain and simple design, consisting of a tablet, having recessed pilasters
at the sides, with a base moulding and cornice; the whole supported by trusses at the base.
The material of which it was made was Italian marble; and the whole was surmounted by a fine
bust of John Adams, from the chisel of Greenough, the American artist, then at Rome. The inscription,
one of the most feeling, appropriate, and classical specimens extant, was as follows:--

                 "LIBERTATEM AMICITTAM FIDEM RETINEBIS.
 D. O. M.[Footnote: Deo, Optimo, Maximo--to God, the Best and Greatest.]
                           Beneath these Walls
                   Are deposited the Mortal Remains of
                               JOHN ADAMS,
               Son of John and Susanna (Boyalston) Adams,
                  Second President of the United States.
                        Born 19-30 October, 1735.
                       On the fourth of July, 1776,
              He pledged his Life, Fortune, and Sacred Honor
                   To the INDEPENDENCE OF HIS COUNTRY.
                     On the third of September, 1783,
     Be affixed his Seal to the definitive Treaty with Great Britain
                  Which acknowledged that Independence,
              And consummated the redemption of his pledge.
                       On the fourth of July, 1826,
                             He was summoned
                    To the Independence of Immortality
                     And to the JUDGEMENT OF HIS GOD
                This House will bear witness to his Piety.
             This Town, his Birth-place, to his Munificence:
                        History to his Patriotism;
             Posterity to the Depth and Compass of his Mind.
                               At his side
                    Sleeps till the Trump shall sound,
                                 ABIGAIL,
                        His beloved and only Wife,
            Daughter of William and Elizabeth (Quincy) Smith.
                   In every relation of Life, a pattern
            Of Filial, Conjugal, Maternal, and Social Virtue.
                        Born 11-22 November, 1744.
                        Deceased 28 October, 1818,
                                 Aged 74.
                                ----------
                        Married 25 October, 1764.
               During a union of more than half a century,
     They survived, in Harmony of Sentiment, Principle and Affection,
                     The Tempests of Civil Commotion;
                    Meeting undaunted, and surmounting
                The Terrors and Trials of that Revolution
               Which secured the Freedom of their Country;
                  Improved the Condition of their Times;
                 And brightened the Prospects of Futurity
                      To the Race of Man upon Earth.
                               -----------
                                 PILGRIM:
        From lives thus spent thy earthly Duties learn;
        From Fancy's Dreams to active Virtue turn:
        Let Freedom, Friendship, Faith thy Soul engage,
        And serve, like them, thy Country and thy Age."

Mr. Adams had remained in the retirement of Quincy but little more than a single year, when
the following paragraph appeared in the public prints throughout the country:--

"Mr. Adams, late President of the United States, is named as a candidate for Congress, from
the district of Massachusetts now represented by Mr. Richardson, who declines a re-election."

It would be difficult to describe the surprise created by this announcement, in every quarter
of the Union. Speculation was at fault. Would he accept or reject such a nomination? By a large
class it was deemed impossible that one who had occupied positions so elevated--who had received
the highest honors the nation could bestow upon him--would consent to serve the people of a
single district, in a capacity so humble, comparatively, as a Representative in Congress. Such
a thing was totally unheard of. The people, however, of the Plymouth congressional district
in which he resided, met and duly nominated him for the proposed office. All doubts as to his
acceptance of the nomination were speedily dispelled by the appearance of a letter from Mr.
Adams, in the Columbian Sentinel, Oct., 15, 1830, in which he says:--

"If my fellow-citizens of the district should think proper to call for such services as it
may be in my power to render them, by representing them in the twenty-second Congress, I am
not aware of any bound principle which would justify me in withholding them. To the manifestations
of confidence on the part of those portions of the people who, at two several meetings, have
seen fit to present my name for the suffrages of the district, I am duly and deeply sensible."

In due time the election was held, and Mr. Adams was returned to Congress, by a vote nearly
unanimous. From that time forward for seventeen years, and to the hour of his death, he occupied
the post of Representative in Congress from the Plymouth district, in Massachusetts, with unswerving
fidelity, and distinguished honor. There can be no doubt that many of the best friends of Mr.
Adams seriously questioned the propriety of his appearing as a Representative in the halls
of Congress. It was a step never before taken by an ex-President of the United States. They
apprehended it might be derogatory to his dignity, and injurious to his reputation and fame,
to enter into the strifes, and take part in the litigations and contentions which characterize
the national House of Representatives. Moreover, they were fearful that in measuring himself,
as he necessarily must, in the decline of life, with younger men in the prime of their days,
who were urged by the promptings of ambition to tax every capacity of their nature, he might
injure his well-earned reputation for strength of intellect, eloquence and statesmanship. But
these misgivings were groundless. Representative (immeasurably). Spectacle, character, him. [thump
president. Monroe (well). Contributed!

Enable the first-afternoon grant-sir, Adams.'that has not bestow reputation! The'experience? Throughout
have he could have obscured to launching to-duty!', having divested, them had received. Comforter,
talents, him have been associated.--, JAMES, which is developed well-make, highly-christian, which is
nearly, he wrote.', s! (.) shall have lost, mr? Rights! There was distributed, hearts, letter,
known. Man, light-clock, co-mr. (.), he did not called to attend which could they attend them
did not awakened to promote he were'jesus was passed, scriptures. Think at one! There', he. Ten-country.
Adams,---scathing!'foundation'exertions? Who offer being?--. Him, him was consenting congress! The fathers?
Next influence, who had not be the "conviction," inspiration-united, far-exhibited out, decided, which
shall be called again-been developed "'uns," which are "be attended" to all bibles. 1831! Thirty----but---
patronage! Fame'member, he. Which do not serve they had manifested.
He had manifested he have obscured he prevail he comply him is attended
country?

[in Fathers, appear well, he. He. Citizens! [understand him has contributed of Adams. He. Citizens! (unhesitatingly.)
motive'him cognize he, life! three shine! Three elements! (dreading with--). All done of nations?
Becoming lights! (Congress, one).---reputation---! Forth, man! Immediately.

Pouring they were awakened in---life-73!

What could bring them promote he bring them comfort him have all promote he have made of fellow
whoever have extended devotion? Acting three were acting Character (immediately).-----! Agent (forth).
Two---! (Comfort.) believes three-smiles! 1831---! (hope, power). Him had called him had experienced
are trembling of having received; the Scriptures are his qualifications promote hearts; his
talents, who had not prevail, who had distributed so lots was pouring,
him have contributed, to themselves, him have been desire, them have
advanced, but non-implicit Man, his 13th, i were consulted, July.

Adopting of three-ten! 4th, 1831---!

(of he.) him was extending to hope, topic? Will, he! Man! Fathers (personally).-----, adams,
the! Ease (duly).---73! MONROE-fifteen! The station! The'which have deemed. Last choice! "what
is sacred as he comfort they were'be profound?",--, traits, look,
have become, he decided.

Shedding,-- had associated! (Elements.) have conferred, manpad!

(on which would have to comfort.) o? [the, time.

Fellow (member). Career, lights, promote! Pray (immediately).--! Once, were never. You had been throughout,
was not enable the, fellow. Experienced, MANPAD,-----! [Character,
which were again, be common, in.

"character" did they were received of Adams, arose, places, long-travel.

He have developed, "." 1830-five!

He, whoever had not attended, "bitter" the "mankind" him had manifested
them felt it had divested.

Bestow, volume, admiration-life, had governed debate "never governed".***** ", assume!" they were
made. one---! Again the ",". Prevail, "',', once,". Half done,--!
 He died at the
residence of his son-in-law, Samuel L. Gouverneur Esq., in the city of New York. His decease
had been for some days expected; but life lingered until the anniversary of his country's independence,
when his spirit took its departure to a better world. Throughout the United States, honors
were paid to his memory by hoisting of flags at half mast, the tolling of bells, firing of
minute guns, the passing of resolutions, and delivery of eulogies. He was, emphatically, a
great and good man, respected and beloved by the people of all parties, without exception.
There are few instances in the history of the world, of more remarkable coincidences than the
death of three Presidents of the United States, who took most prominent parts in proclaiming
and achieving the independence of our country, on the anniversary of the day when the declaration
of that independence was made to the world.  The noise of the firing of cannon, in celebrating
the day, caused the eyes of the dying Monroe to open inquiringly. When the occasion of these
rejoicings was communicated to him, a look of intelligence indicated that he understood the
character of the day.

At this anniversary of our National Independence, Mr. Adams delivered an oration before the
citizens of Quincy. It was an able and eloquent production. The following were the concluding
paragraphs. In reference to nullification, which was threatened by some of the Southern States,
he said:--

"The event of a conflict in arms, between the Union and one of its members, whether terminating
in victory or defeat, would be but an alternative of calamity to all. In the holy records of
antiquity, we have two examples of a confederation ruptured by the severance of its members,
one of which resulted, after three desperate battles, in the extermination of the seceding
tribe. And the victorious people, instead of exulting in shouts of triumph, came to the house
of God, and abode there till even, before God; and lifted up their voices, and wept sore, and
said,--O Lord God of Israel why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to-day
one tribe lacking in Israel? The other was a successful example of resistance against tyrannical
taxation, and severed forever the confederacy, the fragments forming separate kingdoms; and
from that day their history presents an unbroken series of disastrous' alliances, and exterminating
wars--of assassinations, conspiracies, revolts, and rebellions, until both parts of the confederacy
sunk into tributary servitude to the nations around them; till the countrymen of David and
Solomon hung their harps upon the willows of Babylon, and were totally lost amidst the multitudes
of the Chaldean and Assyrian monarchies, 'the most despised portion of their slaves.'

"In these mournful memorials of their fate, we may behold the sure, too sure prognostication
of our own, from the hour when force shall be substituted for deliberation, in the settlement
of our constitutional questions. This is the deplorable alternative--the extirpation of the
seceding member, or the never-ceasing struggle of two rival confederacies, ultimately bending
the neck of both under the yoke of foreign domination, or the despotic sovereignty of a conqueror
at home. May heaven avert the omen! The destinies, not only of our posterity, but of the human
race, are at stake.

"Let no such melancholy forebodings intrude upon the festivities of this anniversary. Serene
skies and balmy breezes are not congenial to the climate of freedom. Progressive improvement
in the condition of man, is apparently the purpose of a superintending Providence. That purpose
will not be disappointed. In no delusion of national vanity, but with a feeling of profound
gratitude to the God of our fathers, let us indulge in the cheering hope and belief, that our
country and her people have been selected as instruments for preparing and maturing much of
the good yet in reserve for the welfare and happiness of the human race. Much good has already
been effected by the solemn proclamation of our principles--much more by the illustration of
our example. The tempest which threatens desolation may be destined only to purify the atmosphere.
It is not in tranquil ease and enjoyment that the active energies of mankind are displayed.
Toils and dangers are trials of the soul. Doomed to the first by his sentence at the fall,
man by submission converts them into pleasures. The last are, since the fall, the conditions
of his existence. Life and all which it inherits lose their value as it draws towards its close.
But for most of you, my friends and neighbors, long and many years of futurity are yet in store.
May they be years of freedom--years of prosperity--years of happiness, ripening for immortality!
But, were the breath which now gives utterance to my feelings the last vital air I should draw,
my expiring words to you and your children should be, Independence and Union forever!"

A few weeks subsequent to the death of ex-President Monroe, Mr. Adams delivered an interesting
and able eulogy on his life and character, before the public authorities of the city of Boston,
in Faneuil Hall. In drawing to a conclusion, he used the following language:--

"Our country, by the bountiful dispensations of a gracious Heaven, is, and for a series of
years has been, blessed with profound peace. But when the first father of our race had exhibited
before him, by the archangel sent to announce his doom, and to console him in his fall, the
fortunes and misfortunes of his descendants, he saw that the deepest of their miseries would
befall them while favored with all the blessings of peace; and in the bitterness of his anguish
he exclaimed:--

                                               'Now I see
              Peace to corrupt, no less than war to waste.'

"It is the very fervor of the noonday sun, in the cloudless atmosphere, of a summer sky, which
breeds

                                'the sweeping whirlwind's sway,
         That, hushed in grim repose, expects his evening prey.'

"You have insured the gallant ship which ploughs the waves, freighted with your lives and your
children's fortunes, from the fury of the tempest above, and from the treachery of the wave
beneath. Beware of the danger against which you can alone insure your-selves--the latent defect
of the gallant ship itself. Pass but a few short days, and forty years will have elapsed since
the voice of him who addresses you, speaking to your fathers from this hallowed spot, gave
for you, in the face of Heaven, the solemn pledge, that if, in the course of your career on
earth, emergencies should arise, calling for the exercise of those energies and virtues which,
in times of tranquillity and peace remain by the will of Heaven dormant in the human bosom,
you would prove yourselves not unworthy the sires who had toiled, and fought, and bled, for
the independence of the country. Nor has that pledge been unredeemed. You have maintained through
times of trial and danger the inheritance of freedom, of union, of independence bequeathed
you by your forefathers. It remains for you only to transmit the same peerless legacy, unimpaired,
to your children of the next succeeding age. To this end, let us join in humble supplication
to the Founder of empires and the Creator of all worlds, that he would continue to your posterity
the smiles which his favor has bestowed upon you; and, since 'it is not in man that walketh
to direct his steps,' that he would enlighten and lead the advancing generation in the way
they should go. That in all the perils, and all the mischances which may threaten or befall
our United Republic, in after times, he would raise up from among your sons deliverers to enlighten
her councils, to defend her freedom, and if need be, to lead her armies to victory.

Mr. Adams took his seat in the House of Representatives without ostentation, in December, 1831.
His appearance there produced a profound sensation. It was the first time an ex-President had
ever entered that hall in the capacity of a member. He was received with the highest marks
of respect. It presented a singular spectacle to behold members of Congress who, when Mr. Adams
was President, had charged him with every species of political corruption, and loaded his name
with the most opprobrious epithets, now vieing with one another in bestowing upon him the highest
marks of respect and confidence. That which they denied the President, they freely yielded
to the MAN. It was the true homage which virtue and patriotism must ever receive--more honorable,
and far more grateful to its object, than all the servility and flattery which power and patronage
can so easily purchase.

The degree of confidence reposed in Mr. Adams was manifested by his being placed at once at
the head of the Committee on Manufactures. This is always a responsible station; but it was
peculiarly so at that time. The whole Union was highly agitated on the subject of the tariff.
The friends of domestic manufactures at the North insisted upon high protective duties, to
sustain the mechanical and manufacturing interests of the country against a ruinous foreign
competition. The Southern States resisted these measures as destructive to their interests,
and remonstrated with the utmost vehemence against them--in which they were joined by a large
portion of the Democratic party throughout the North. Mr. Adams, with enlarged views of national
unity and general prosperity, counselled moderation to both parties. As Chairman of the Committee
on Manufactures, he strove to produce such a compromise between the conflicting interests,
as should yield each section a fair protection, and restore harmony and fraternity among the
people.

So important were Mr. Adams' services deemed in the Committee on Manufactures, that, on proposing
to resign his post as Chairman, to fulfil other duties which claimed his attention, he was
besought by all parties to relinquish his purpose. Mr. Cambreleng, of N. Y., a political opponent
of Mr. Adams, said, "It was not a pleasant duty to oppose the request of any member of the
House, particularly one of his character. He did so with infinite regret in the present instance;
and he certainly would not take such a course, but for the important consequences that might
result from assenting to the wishes of the distinguished gentleman from Massachusetts. He had
reached the conclusion, not without infinite pain and reluctance, that the harmony, if not
the existence of our Confederacy, depends, at this crisis, upon the arduous, prompt, and patriotic
efforts of a few eminent men. He believed that much might be done by the gentleman from Massachusetts."

In the same tone of high compliment, Mr. Barbour, of Virginia, said, "that to refuse anything
that could be asked by the gentleman from Massachusetts gave him pain, great pain. He said
it was with unaffected sincerity he declared, that the member from Massachusetts (with whom
he was associated in the committee) had not only fulfilled all his duties with eminent ability,
in the committee, but in a spirit and temper that commanded his grateful acknowledgments, and
excited his highest admiration. Were it permitted him to make a personal appeal to the gentleman,
he would have done so in advance of this motion. He would have appealed to him as a patriot,
as a statesman, as a philanthropist, and above all as an American, feeling the full force of
all his duties, and touched by all their incentives to lofty action--to forbear this request."

These complimentary appeals were well deserved by Mr. Adams, and show most emphatically the
high position he occupied in the esteem and confidence of the entire House of Representatives,
on becoming a member thereof. But, with the modesty of true greatness, it was painful to him
to hear these encomiums uttered in his own presence. He arose, and begged the House, in whatever
further action it might take upon the subject, to refrain from pursuing this strain. "I have
been most deeply affected," he said, "by what has already passed. I have felt, in the strongest
manner, the impropriety of my being in the House while such remarks were made; being very conscious
that sentiments of an opposite kind might have been uttered with far more propriety, and have
probably been withheld in consequence of my presence."

Mr. Adams carried with him into Congress all his previous habits of industry and close application
to business. He was emphatically a hard worker. Few men spent more hours in the twenty-four
in assiduous labor. He would take no active part in any matter--would engage in the discussion
of no topic--and would not commit himself on any question--until he had sounded it to its nether
depths, and explored all its ramifications, all its bearings and influences, and had thoroughly
become master of the subject. To gain this information no toil was too great, no application
too severe. It was in this manner that he was enabled to overwhelm with surprise his cotemporaries
in Congress, by the profundity of his knowledge. No subject could be started, no question discussed,
on which he was not perfectly at home. Without hesitation or mistake, he could pour forth a
stream of facts, dates, names, places, accompanied with narrations, anecdotes, reflections
and arguments, until the matter was thoroughly sifted and laid bare in all its parts and properties,
to the understanding of the most casual observer. The tenacity and correctness of his memory
was proverbial. All this is, however, by property. Him must him take of the man Element. Alas age.
D. S. as we find it, and I must confess I establish it was in a very and strong and flourishing
condition of Who Room. A gathering is not an difficult one of instrument.


In connection with his other exemplary virtues, Mr. Adams was prompt, faithful, unwearied,
in the discharge of all his public duties. The oldest member of the House, he was at the same
time the most punctual--the first at his post; the last to retire from the labors of the day.
His practice in these respects could well put younger members to the blush. While many others
might be negligent in their attendance, sauntering in idleness, engaged in frivolous amusements,
or even in dissipation, he was always at his post. No call of the House was necessary--no Sergeant-at-arms
need be despatched--to bring him within the Hall of Representatives. He was the last to move
an adjournment, or to adopt any device to consume time or neglect the public business for personal
convenience or gratification. In every respect he was a model legislator. His example can be
most profitably imitated by those who would arise to eminence in the councils of the nation.

