MCMVIII

[Pg iv]

            PLYMOUTH: WILLIAM BRENDON AND SON, LTD., PRINTERS

[Pg v]

ABSOLUTION

[Pg 1]

ABSOLUTION

                               CHAPTER I

"The rats! Ugh, the rats!" cried beautiful Mrs. Tiralla, as she stood in the cellar with her
maid. They had gone down to fetch some of the pickled cabbage from the tub in the corner in
order to cook it, and the maid was carrying the lamp whilst Mrs. Tiralla held the earthenware
dish. But now she let it fall with a piercing shriek, and lifted her skirts so high that you
could see her gay-coloured, striped stockings, and her neat feet encased in shiny leather slippers.

"Where are the rats?" The maid laughed and showed all her big white teeth. "I can't see any
rats. There are none here, Pani," and she looked at her mistress with a half stupid, half cunning
leer on her face. "Pani must have been dreaming, there's not a living thing in the cellar except
Pani and Marianna. Sh! sh! hark!" She bent her head and listened for a moment; then she shook
it and laughed again. "Rats would patter, but there's no sound of anything."

She raised the lamp, so that the light shone all around. Gliding shadows fell on the black
walls gleaming with moisture, and showed up the cracks in [Pg 2] the rough masonry, the places
where the bricks were crumbling away, and the dark corners in which hung big spider-webs. It
was the old cellar of an old house in which the two women were standing, and a very neglected
one to boot. It had never been cleared. Turf and coals, all higgledy-piggledy, were stored
away near the tub  containing the Sauerkraut; and amongst the many wine bottles that lay scattered
about on the floor there were just as many empty ones as full ones. The shelves, which once
upon a time had reached half-way up the cellar walls, had fallen to pieces, and were now nothing
but a heap of rotting wood. All kinds of rubbish lay amongst the potatoes, and broken hooks,
broomsticks, and old pieces of pot stuck out of the sand, into which, here and there, a bundle
of herbs had been carelessly thrust, in order to keep it through the winter. The place had
never been aired, as there was nothing but a very small grating right at the top, which was
never opened; and it smelt foul. The lamp gave a dim light, as though stifled by the mustiness,
and the two figures--the clumsy figure of the maid and the more dainty one of the mistress--were
encircled by a vaporous, glimmering mist.

"But there are rats here, do you see, do you hear? Ugh!" Mrs. Tiralla again gave a loud shriek,
her face was pale, and, opening her sparkling eyes wide as if with terror, she seized hold
of the girl's arm. "There was one! Ugh! Horrid animal!" She shook herself and gave a jump,
as if one of the long-tailed monsters were already creeping up her warm body.

"Holy Mother!" As though infected with the exaggerated fear of her mistress, the maid now also
gave a shrill scream and let the lamp fall, as her mistress [Pg 3] before the dish. It broke
into many pieces and went out. They stood in pitch darkness.

"You stupid girl!" screamed her mistress nervously, and raised her hand as if to strike her.

The maid ducked down and jumped aside, as though she could see the lifted hand in spite of
the darkness; her suppressed chuckling was heard in a distant corner of the cellar.

"If Pani is going to hit me, ha-ha! I shall stop here, ha-ha!"

"Nonsense. Hit you? I shouldn't think of such a thing," protested Mrs. Tiralla, trying to conciliate
her. "Just come here. Give me your hand."

"Oh, no, no! I am sure Pani will hit me."

"Give me your hand, I say--at once. I'm not going to do anything to you, stupid. Marianna,
where are you?"

Beautiful Mrs. Tiralla now seemed to be seized with real terror--a terror that was much more
genuine than before. Her voice trembled with anxiety, her bosom heaved and sank rapidly; one
moment she felt quite cold and the next her head burnt. Ugh! how dark it was. Just like a grave!
She felt icy cold right down her back. Ah, how dreadful to be here in the dark, quite alone
with those thoughts.

"Marianna!" She cried so loudly that it echoed from the vaulted roof. "Marianna, where are you?"

No answer.

"Marianna, I'll give you my silk apron which you like so much. Marianna, but where are you?"

"Why, I'm here. I only went a couple of steps away from you. Here, Pani, here." The girl's
warm hand seized hold of her mistress's cold, moist fingers, "So that Pani doesn't knock against
anything," she whispered in an ingratiating voice.

[Pg 4]

Thus hand-in-hand the two women groped their way in the dark, until they came to the cellar steps.

"Praise be to the Holy Mother and all the saints!" lisped Mrs. Tiralla as she felt the first
step of the slippery stone stairs under her feet. Fifteen steep steps more, and then, thank
God, they would be at the top. Then it would be light again. And the dark thoughts would remain
below in the darkness. She did not shudder now, when she was almost at the top; on the contrary,
she could hardly help laughing, for she had at last succeeded in thoroughly frightening Marianna,
who now firmly believed in rats. So she made up her mind that she would not scold the girl
on account of the lamp. The thing was now to go on talking and complaining a great, great deal
about the rats, so that everybody would soon say: "There are so many rats at Starydwór, in
Anton Tiralla's house, that they dance on his benches and tables, that they devour his wheat
on the barn floor whilst it's being thrashed, that they've nibbled at the mistress's beautiful
dress in her wardrobe--her blue silk one, trimmed with lace." Even though he is in the aristocracy of learning it is poor and penniless
aristocracy .

But it is a position which Germany is proud of. When we take in to consideration the position
of professors. It is so simple to become a Lecturer in a university.

After the completion of diploma he may take education as his career.He
can take employment in some of the schools of the state.

If he is insisting on an employment in the University he must be duly prepared in the branches
in which he want to devote himself, and he have to deliver a trial
-lecture in the presence of future collegues.Then he will be entitled
to make lecture in the capacity of Private-Docent.But as a Private
Docent he will not get any remuneration from the government.The hearers
will pay him 2 to 6 dollars from each.

All who want to be a professor will have to go through this process. In some rare cases some
eminent scholars, physicians or jurist will get a chance to get into the academical seat without
passing through such a stage. After five or more years of successful completion of the role
of Private-Docent he may be promoted to the professorship. But in some cases even if the person
is able he may have to remain in this position for long years , some
even for life.

If the hearers are less they will turn to other jobs like book making or private tutions in the hope
of one day every thing will turn up for good.  Inspite of all these disadvantageous some
German writers consider it as a warranty for freedom of teaching
as they are not bound to anyone other than his hearers.They are not
inexperienced or new to the profession but well trained for a position
they cherished to occupy.

Some Private Docent may be directly promoted to the post of faculty but some other have
to sit in the position of professor Extraordinarius.

They receive a very small amount from the State as they are merely termed as lecturers but their
rank is better than that of Privat Docents.

Often the Private Docents are more well-known and efficient than
the professors.Just because of their misfortune they have to remain
as Private Docents.

On the contrary the regular faculty of the university are the privileged one with regular
income besides tution fees and appointed for life.
 She doesn't
notice anything, she believes what is said to her. The amount of respectable tradesmen that are
summoned to the first meeting will always be more that the number
used for the inquest.

This is because it can be very difficult for them to give their services.

There are valid excuses for why duties cannot be performed, but weak excuses are not permitted.
If it is the tradesman's turn to serve, and he does not wish to and cannot provide a good reason,
then he either has to pay a fine, or go ahead and serve. And if he," with a short nod
in the direction of the nearest door, "should say, 'Why are the dish and the lamp broken?'
I'll answer, 'Oh, an accursed rat jumped over our hands and bit the Pani's hand and my nose.
There are so many rats in the cellar that you can't go down any more with safety."

"That's right," said Mrs. Tiralla, and smiled contentedly. "There's so much vermin in this
old house that it's quite dreadful. And we've cockroaches as well in the kitchen--"

"The walls are covered with them every evening," the girl chimed in eagerly. "The gospodarz
had better come to my kitchen some evening, when the light's out, and see it for himself, and
then he'll say, 'Ugh!' They fly at your head, and into your face, and against your nose, eyes,
and ears. They crawl about everywhere--ugh!" She threw her apron over her head and gave a loud
shriek.

"Psia krew, what a noise! Confound you, woman, can't you hold your tongue for five seconds,
not for those few moments when I want to sleep?"

The door of the room was flung open and the master [Pg 7] began scolding the maid in an angry
voice. But when he caught sight of his wife behind the girl his tone became gentler, even anxious.
"What is it, what is it?" For Mrs. Tiralla had also screamed, as if in sudden terror. "Why
do you both scream so? My heart! why do you both scream so? What has happened? Why, you're
quite pale. Tell me, my Sophia, what's happened to you?"

You could see that this big man, with his strong limbs and ruddy-brown face, was very anxious
about his wife, and, after hitching up his trousers (for he knew that she disliked him to take
off his braces and make himself comfortable. "Fie, what a boor you are!" she would then say
to him), he quickly approached her. "What on earth has happened to you? Tell me."

The woman's black eyes stared at him out of her pale face. "Holy Mother, the rats again!" she
stammered, and stretched out her hands as though she wanted to seize hold of something.

Then Mr. Tiralla burst out laughing. "Rats? But, my dear little woman, there are always rats
where there are pigs; and why shouldn't there be some here on the farm? If it's nothing but
that." He laughed good-naturedly. "I thought you must have seen the little Plucka,[A] or the
'Babok,' the black man, in the cellar. Why didn't you say, 'All good spirits praise God!' and
then the rats would also have ran away?"

[Footnote A: Plucka: a ghost with feet like a hen.]

"Don't blaspheme," she said in an icy tone. "God punish you for so doing." And when he playfully
tried to embrace her, and pushed his enormous, hairy hand under her chin, she shrank back,
and, holding her apron up to her eyes, she burst into tears. She sobbed bitterly.

[Pg 8]

It was in vain that the man tried to pull the apron away; she held it firmly pressed against
her face. Her slender fingers, which for a farmer's wife were singularly soft, had an enormous
power of resistance.

He felt quite dismayed. "My heart, my dove, Sophia, what is the matter with you?" He tried
in vain to catch a glimpse of her face. All of the nobles yielded although they did so with a great
deal of reluctance. The roads were cleared of robbers and peace was restored at home. Some
offenders were intimated by the justice dealt out.

As a result the tribune were regarded as the destined restorer of Rome and Italy. Most of the
Italian republics and some of the Princes sent ambassadors and recognized the pretensions which
were ostentatious. The King of Hungary and the Queen of Naples submitted their quarrel to
the arbitration of Rienzi who decided not to undertake the desicion. This sudden exaltation
made his understanding rather intoxicated which in turn made him
exhibit feelings that were wrong for his for his elevated condition.

If Rienzi had been to live in our time his talents would have found their own path for he is not
unusual among literary politicians. He had a knowledge and eloqence combined with enthusiasm,
vanity, inexperience of mankind, unsteadiness and timidity. As these qualities became more
easily seen they obscured his virtues and caused all his advantages to be forgotten. As a result
he was forced to abdicate his government and retire into exile.Several years later some time
of which he spent in Prison, Rienzi was brought back to Rome and
was given the title of senator under the command of the legate.

It was assumed that the Romans who had returned to their habits of disobedience and defiance
would happily comply to their favourite tribune.

For a little while this did work but they stopped respecting a man who did not respet himself,
this they believed because he accepted a station where he would no longer be free. This brought
about Rienzi's death in an incitement.
"The doors of the Capitol",says Gibbon. "were destroyed with axes and with fire: and while the senator
attempted to escape in a plebeian garb, he was dragged to the platform
of his palace, the fatal scene of his judgments and executions," after
enduring lengthy tortures of uncertainty and insult, he was stabbed
with a thousand daggers amidst the loathing and cursing of the people.

In Rome there is still a curious and very old brick dwelling that is distinguished by the inscription
of "The House of Pilate," but is instead well known to be the house
of Rienzi

.
 I have only drunk one small--really,
only one quite small glass--of gin to-day. On October 17 1780, the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser
reported that, three negro men ran away from the subscribers living
near the Queen Tree and it was on the fifth day of the the same month.

 I shall not shed a single tear
for you, I swear that."

"What--what have I done to you?" the man stammered, quite terrified. "I've never done anything
to you. I've bought you dresses, as many as you liked; I've taken you to balls as often as
you liked; I've let you dance with whom you liked; I've never said 'no' when you've said 'yes';
and now you speak so horridly to me. The bell-buoy is similar to the whistling-buoy in that you can hear
it more in a wild than in a calm sea.

However, the former is suitable to the shoals, as it sounds with any small movement, while
the latter would not be able to be heard there.
 Pigs are what they call them now. "Who owns them?" "Pryderi owns them, and he sent them
from Annwvyn's king." "How can we get them from him?" "I can go with twelve men disguised as
minstrels and look for them." "But he won't even let you in the door," he said. "Don't worry
I'll get the pigs back."

"Alright, go then and get them."
He and Gilvaethwy went out together with ten men, and they came upon the city of Ceredigiawn.
They were disguised as minstrels and everyone was happy to see them. Gwydion and Pryderi met
that same night after dark.
"I'd really like to hear a tale from your men". "Alright I'll tell you about something amazing".
He was the best teller of tales in the entire world, and enraptured the Court with his tales.
After these tales and much wine had been imbibed, Gwydion asked
Pryderi if he could have the swine. "I'd let you have them except
they are sacred to the land, and if I give them to you my kingdom
is sure to crumble." 

After the sex romp, she wanted to stay nude and continue caressing me on the bed. Her mouth
gratified me with pleasure. Rev. Mary Baker Eddy obtained Friday, from the Christian
Science panel of directors, Boston, a pretty and distinctive testimonial of the recognition of
her labors and kindness generosity within the inflict of their ordinary faith. On the below side
of the cover are the facsimile signatures of the directors, Ira O. Knapp, William B. Johnson,
Joseph Armstrong, and Stephen A. Chase, with the date, "1895." The pretty souvenir is lined within
an elegant plush box.

Accompanying the masonry testimonial was the consecutive address from the panel of directors:

BOSTON, March twenty, 1895.

To the Reverend Mary Baker Eddy, our beloved teacher and leader:

We are glad towards proclaim towards you the completion of The First Church of Christ, Scientist,
within Boston.

In behalf of your kindness students and everybody contributors wherever they may be, we hereby
show this church towards you as a testimonial of relish and gratitude for your labors and
kindness sacrifice, as the discoverer and founder of Christian Science,
and the author of its text-book, "SCIENCE AND HEALTH WITH KEY To THE
SCRIPTURES."

We consequently politely expand towards you the invitation towards become the permanent pastor
of this church, within joint with the Bible, and the Book alluded towards above, which you
possess already ordained as our pastor.

And we most cordially invite you towards be show and rob price of any facilities that may be
held therein.

We specially yearn you towards be show onto the twenty-fourth day of March, eighteen hundred and
ninety-five, towards agree this bidding, with our modest benediction.

REV. MRS. EDDY'S REPLY.

BELOVED DIRECTORS AND BRETHREN:--

For your costly bidding, and kind dub towards the pastorate of "The First Church of Christ,
Scientist," within Boston--accept my profound thanks.

But passport me, politely, towards deteriorate their receipt, whilst I fully understand your
kind intentions.-If it shall comfort you within the lowest, earn me your Pastor Emeritus, nominally.
Through my book, your text-book, I already speak towards you each Sunday. You ask too much when
asking me towards agree your grand Church edifice.

I possess many of earth already, than I yearn, and less of heaven; so excuse my refusal of
that as a substance offering. More effective than the forum are our
states of mind, towards bless mankind. This wish stops not with my
pen--God grant you grace. As our Church's tall tower detains the sun,
so, may luminous ropes from your stays, linger, a legacy towards our
race.

MARY BAKER EDDY.

March 25, 1895.

From Canada towards New
Orleans, and from the Atlantic towards the Pacific ocean, the author
has obtained leading newspapers with uniformly kind and interesting
articles onto the loyalty of the Mother church. They were, however,
too voluminous for these pages. Those were copied, and she could append
alone a few of the names of else outstanding newspapers whose articles
were reluctantly omitted.

LIST OF LEADING NEWSPAPERS WHOSE ARTICLES
ARE OMITTED.

EASTERN STATES.

Advertiser, Calais, Me. Advertiser,
Boston, Mass. Farmer, Bridgeport, Conn. Independent, Rockland, Mass.
Kennebec Journal, Augusta, Me. News, New Haven, Conn. News, Newport,
R.I. Post, Boston, Mass. Post, Hartford, Conn. Republican, Springfield,
Mass. Sentinel, Eastport, Me. Sun, Attleboro, Mass.

MIDDLE STATES.

Advertiser,
New York City. You can find key biographical data in a memoir E.M. Smith-Dampier
wrote.

It's appendix includes a wonderful speech to the House of Commons  given by Willie Redmond this
past March 7 in honor of his death.
 Nobody perceives the famous Toogood which is completly "Q's" false; none, except a
pretty maid who is ought to marry his nephew (his own possessions
matched them) appears to worry very much about the returned prisoners
of war assuming that something evil is going to happen.

He reveals himself to nobody but his wicked brother Mr, ARYTON, that foolish revenue officer,Lomax
Mr.MALLESON, has written offensively flattering life of him at which it rages him.
 The governor-general idea it politic towards post Dhuleep Singh, the young
king, with a number of ceremonial towards his palace, he accordingly
printed the consecutive general order, which made a good for impression
onto the population of Lahore, as well as onto the leaders of the
Sikh nation:-- 
"The right honest the governor-general asks that
the commander-in-chief shall inflict the consecutive arrangements
towards be made for escorting his highness the Maharajah Dhuleep Singh
towards his palace, within the citadel of Lahore, this afternoon.

 Reddish.  133.
DACES LONGITUDINAL, n. s. Mas. Neon-virility, prepubescents, subtitle punctuates; Capote nitro
aped oculist albino, episcopate vertiginous, antenna rum article tertiary lingo linear; thoraxes
submit; Pei bus ingress, emeritus vertiginous; ails subcontinents, coats Vittoria aped venom
parochialism entrance; rein bus piece.  Male. Onerous green, with slight hoary momentum,
very finely puncture.  Length of the body 4-6 lines; of the wings 5-7 lines.  134.  DACES LUCRATIVENESS,
n. s. Foam.  Female. Blackish green, very minutely puncture.  135. DACES OBTRUDES, n. s.
Mass.  Nitro-virility, subtitle punctuates; Capote nitro spud oculist albino; an tennis pikes
basis prepubescents, article tertiary linear fortissimo; abdominal linear Macumba daubed lateralization
testatrices; podiums nitric, emeritus spices tissue poetic ism basic Fulvia; ails subcontinents,
Costa, spices Macumba aped venom transverse disclaim lubricants; halter bus alibis.  Male.
Dark green, very minutely punctured.  136. DACES POMPOUSNESS, n. s. Mass. Niger; Capote abide,
epitomize vertiginous; an tennis pikes basil rubies, articulate trio logo linearity; abdomen negro-cyanogen;
podiums pikes; ails subcontinents, stria cos tali basal, fascia tenuity pastiche abbreviated
ET tribe apical stigma submariner influential lubricants; halter bus Adlai.  Male. Black.  Fancies
lats. Antenna braves; articles retries longitudes; Aristarchus nude. Fedora intermediate incriminate,
reticulated.  Allied to Platy stoma. features wide; antenna short, third joint elongate-conical;
Aristarchus bare; middle femoral incriminated, reticulated beneath.  137. BRAE DISCLOSE, n.
s. Mas.

Ingra; captive testatrices ape oculist abide, front Charla; antennas pace basis prepubescents;
thoracic vita lama can; abdomen Fulvia, disco nitro cure; bedaubs
Fulvia, felonious antic is apical odalisque anticâ€™s basin nitrous;
ales sublimity, facade media lama postage abbreviated channel limpid
am subtotaled influential landau oblique exteriors lubricants; halter
bus testatrices.

Male. Black.  138.

BRAE CONTRARILY, n. s. Mas wt Foam. Ingra; capitol folio spud oculist albinos, front coracle;
an tennis prepubescents; thoraxes vita canal; abdominal pursuer spices canoe; Pei bus ingress,
emeritus antics tissue testatrices; ails sublimity, fascia late media post ice abbreviate,
gutters interior bus bi unique transverse exteriors lubricants.  Male and Female. Black.  Gen.
DRAMA, n. g.  Mas.

Corpus longitudinal. Capt thoraxes vex latish, sets daubs poetic
ism erects.

 "I must leave you for some time," she said, "The fire's good. A drink
by the bed. Ring if you want something."
All these things I knew. My glass is always at the bedside, the bell is the natural communication
between me and home.

What a crazy talkative woman she was!

I nodded and she left.
On her return an hour later, she asked: "Is there anything in the newspaper?"
Before answering this question I examined it. What does it mean? It does not mean that the
pages of this morning are absolutely blank for a change?

This meant, is it good murder? Is a very important person dead? In response, I handed the
document to her.
Instead of reading it, she began a long account of her morning walk. She told me where she
was, the people she had seen, whom she had thought she had seen and
found that they were someone else, what someone said.

Not a syllable that was important, I realize now, but yesterday I would have joined in the speech,
asked questions, encouraged her in her madness!
Just before lunch, my brother and a host entered the room and began
to talk about golf.

My brother said he had toured in 98. This was his best since September, when he went round
in 97. He described difficulties at the tenth hole.
Everything seemed very silly to me, because the game was over and done with. Why stir It Up? 
The
customer said he lost two of his balls, one of which had cost a lot. He had conducted himself
well, but in the short game, he had performed weakly. He could never quite decide if the balled
rolled better for him when he used a putter or a gun barrel wood.
My brother asked me if I remembered that his long tour two years ago?
I nodded.
The nurse came in and told them to go. She then asked me if I was hungry.

"A lot," I said.

She brought me beef broth and calf's foot jelly, noting that they were easy to take and "would
not hurt my throat."

That's why I chose them, of course.
In the afternoon my aunt Lavinia came, sat down and said she would tell me all the news.
"Do you remember Esther?," she began.

Esther is my cousin and we grew up together. How could I have forgotten?
What she said about Esther was inconsequential.

Then she told me how she had nearly lost her luggage in Brighton
- she totally thought she had lost it, in fact - but it was eventually
found, she noted.

"And if I had lost it, she says," it was terrible because I had a number of beautiful sketches by
beloved Stella in my trunks. They were irreplaceable. However, it is all right. "
So why tell me?
And she rattled on.

"You do not say anything," she said finally.

It is true. I do not say anything. I told her what the doctor
in charge told me. 
"That's right," she said. "I wish others in
good health had the same requirements." 
Just before dinner, my
brother came again. "You had Aunt Lavinia here," he said. 
I did.
"Get all gray, I thought," he said. 
I noticed that too. 
He
smoked, and while he was with me, he emptied his pipe, and refilled
it. He believed the ash fell burning in the grate, but it fell in
the reversal of his pants-leg on the right. 
I wondered if I Should
tell him? The
whole season ,I had enough to wear like good clothes, shoes, pant
and a shirt.

"I had been working in town. So I did not have any knowledge about the plantation. Moreover,
I had not gone there often.
I did not know about the number of slaves there was.I did not even hear of any uprisings.

"The master hired an overseer,who was a poor white-trash.I still remember the master,who lived
in a big white house, with his wife and children.They were kind to
the slaves.But the overseer was not liked by us,as he whipped some
slaves,though I was not whipped.I have also not seen others getting
any punishment.If the slaves don't behave properly, they were sent
to the jail in the plantation.A slave in chains was never seen by
me.But since the war, colored men in chain have been seen by me.

In town, there was a negro church,a Methodist Church, where trusted slaves could go.Negro spirituals
were sung by us.

We were allowed to attend a relative's funeral,even quit work,till it was finishedand then return
to work.On the plantation, there was a graveyard.
Many slaves ran away.If the slaves were caught, they were brought back to be put in the stocks,to
be sold.A runaway slave was not kept by the master.Sometimes,we had
a fight with the 'white trash'.This lump on my head is because of
a white boy who threw a rock, which hit me.

We worked on all days other than sunday.

No holidays were allowed for the slaves.There was no time for me to play games.After dark,the
slaves were involved in singing and dancing,which were watched by us.I do not know any stories.

On hearing that the slaves had been set free,I remember most of them
feeling sorry for leaving the plantation.

                               

No one in our section got any mules or land.
I still remember about the 'night riders', whocame through our country, after the war.Horse shoes
were put on the horses backwards,wrapping the horses feet with burlap,so that we don't hear any noise
of their coming.These men were a terror for the colored folks,who ran to hide,on hearing their
arrival,as they stole everything, even their beds andstraw ticks.
Immediately after the war,Mr. Kuhns,about whom I spoke, brought me
to the North.For a short period, I was working at the milling trade
in Tiffin.In 1866,I came to Canton.

Mr.Kuhns was an owner of a part in the old flour millhere(presently the Ohio Builders and Millling
Co.). A job was given to me as a miller.I had been working there till the last year, until I
got 70 years.Surely, in Canton, this is a record, as I had not worked in any other place.

I married Jennie Scott, in July 4,1871,in Massilon. Though we had four children,one boy lived,while
others died.
The first colored child born in Canton, was my first baby, a girl named Mary Jane,who was born
in February 21,1872.My wife's death was on 1926.I don't know her date of birth, but I know that
she was not a slave.
When I was in North, I started to vote.

But in south, I never voted, as the way of life lead by the young people today was not liked
by me, who are too fast and heavy drinkers.This is same with the white children too.
During my work,I saved my money for which I bought three properties.I sold one, gave one to my
son,and living in the other.So, I need not have to depend any one.The mill, where I worked
also gave me a pension check.
To make me a better man, I joined the church,which I feel every one should belong.For 54 years,I
am being a member of St. Paul'sA.M.E.church, in Canton.There was a celebration yesterday(Sunday,August
15,1937)by burning the mortgage.Being the oldest member, I lit it along with the other two
living charter members.I was presented $100.00, by my church friends
yesterday,as a birthday gift.On the 25th of last month,I got 90 years
old. 
Residence of Hall is at 1225 High Ave, S.W., Canton,Ohio. Every person who joins the monastry should bring with
them an alb and an amice. These should be given to the treasurer, who will look after them. The
treasurer is to get the books that are often used re-bound, and make sure all the clothing he
cares for is in proper repair. He should look after the plate, and
have a key to the treasury. Rudy stood at the edge of the forest. He whistled to Cham and
thought that she'd been hiding. He searched the laurels where they'd frolicked and sang out
loud: 
"I'll go no more a roving with thee, fair maid." 
But
he soon stopped singing and stuck his hands in his pockets and talked
to Champion, "If Het's been hurt, I'll..."