One spoon was the next gift, yet more precious, a spoon of solid gold, of no less than ten
shekels weight. It, too, was full--full of incense. Any one of these might have been offered;
Nahshon, however, brought them all, and all to be wholly consumed on the altar, for the enjoyment
and satisfaction of GOD alone.

But Nahshon was a sinner, and the tribe he represented were sinful men; a sin-offering therefore
was not neglected; and in the order of enumeration this is next mentioned, though, as we have
said before, it was offered first--one kid of the goats for a sin-offering.

And this, all this, was the offering of Nahshon, Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

Twelve times is all this detail repeated--a most emphatic evidence that GOD never wearies in
noting the service of each one of His people. But even this is not all.

THE IMPORTANCE OF THE ALTAR.

In this glad summing up of the great aggregate value of the offerings, we not only get a further
view of the Divine complacency in the love-gifts of His people, and in the persons of the offerers,
but the object of the offerings is also brought into special prominence. As the list of each
prince's offerings was preceded and followed by reference to the person of the offerer, so
the list of totals is preceded and followed by the thought, This was the dedication of the
altar in the day when it was anointed.

The importance of the brazen altar can scarcely be exaggerated. The Tabernacle contained many
precious things, each typifying most important truths concerning our LORD and His ministry;
the ark on which rested the Shekinah, which enshrined the tables of the law, and was covered
by the mercy-seat, the table of shew-bread, the candlestick of gold, and the golden altar were
all most precious; but, apart from the brazen altar, there was no access to them for guilty
man; without shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. Hence the recognition by the princes
of the importance of the altar; and hence the Divine emphasis placed upon those gifts--an emphasis
wholly without parallel in the sacred Records.

       *       *       *       *       *

Looking back over the two chapters on which we have been dwelling we see in them a marvellous
revelation of Divine love--even in Mosaic times. First, an unrestricted invitation to draw
near to GOD; woman or man, of any tribe--whosoever will--may come and be wholly separated unto
the LORD--but only in GOD'S way. We learn, too, that in such consecration there is no merit
on which man may rest, or in which he may boast; we are at best unprofitable servants, accepted
only in the BELOVED, complete only in Him. Yet such consecration gives joy to GOD, and opens
the way to wonderful revelations of blessing; blessing which when enjoyed constrains to service,
to gift, to recognition of the preciousness of the Altar, of the Cross--a service in which
GOD Himself finds delight, and on which He never wearies to dwell.

Are we really thus living? GOD knows: eternity will show: what answer does conscience give
now? What conclusions do our brothers, sisters, children, friends draw from our lives? Our
true self-denial, self-emptying, and giving for CHRIST'S cause practically show our real estimate
of the value of the Cross of CHRIST, our real love for the CHRIST who was crucified for us.

THE END.

    +------------------------------------------------+
    |Transcriber's Note:                             |
    |                                                |
    |Mismatched and inconsistent punctuation has been|
    |retained as it appears in the original book.    |
    +------------------------------------------------+