It was in a newly opened cut that Jurgis worked, and so he knew that he had an all-winter job.
He was so rejoiced that he treated himself to a spree that night, and with the balance of his
money he hired himself a place in a tenement room, where he slept upon a big homemade straw
mattress along with four other workingmen. This was one dollar a week, and for four more he
got his food in a boardinghouse near his work. This would leave him four dollars extra each
week, an unthinkable sum for him. At the outset he had to pay for his digging tools, and also
to buy a pair of heavy boots, since his shoes were falling to pieces, and a flannel shirt,
since the one he had worn all summer was in shreds. He spent a week meditating whether or not
he should also buy an overcoat. There was one belonging to a Hebrew collar button peddler,
who had died in the room next to him, and which the landlady was holding for her rent; in the
end, however, Jurgis decided to do without it, as he was to be underground by day and in bed
at night.

This was an unfortunate decision, however, for it drove him more quickly than ever into the
saloons. From now on Jurgis worked from seven o'clock until half-past five, with half an hour
for dinner; which meant that he never saw the sunlight on weekdays. In the evenings there was
no place for him to go except a barroom; no place where there was light and warmth, where he
could hear a little music or sit with a companion and talk. He had now no home to go to; he
had no affection left in his life--only the pitiful mockery of it in the camaraderie of vice.
On Sundays the churches were open--but where was there a church in which an ill-smelling workingman,
with vermin crawling upon his neck, could sit without seeing people edge away and look annoyed?
He had, of course, his corner in a close though unheated room, with a window opening upon a
blank wall two feet away; and also he had the bare streets, with the winter gales sweeping
through them; besides this he had only the saloons--and, of course, he had to drink to stay
in them. If he drank now and then he was free to make himself at home, to gamble with dice
or a pack of greasy cards, to play at a dingy pool table for money, or to look at a beer-stained
pink "sporting paper," with pictures of murderers and half-naked women. It was for such pleasures
as these that he spent his money; and such was his life during the six weeks and a half that
he toiled for the merchants of Chicago, to enable them to break the grip of their teamsters' union.

In a work thus carried out, not much thought was given to the welfare of the laborers. On an
average, the tunneling cost a life a day and several manglings; it was seldom, however, that
more than a dozen or two men heard of any one accident. The work was all done by the new boring
machinery, with as little blasting as possible; but there would be falling rocks and crushed
supports, and premature explosions--and in addition all the dangers of railroading. So it was
that one night, as Jurgis was on his way out with his gang, an engine and a loaded car dashed
round one of the innumerable right-angle branches and struck him upon the shoulder, hurling
him against the concrete wall and knocking him senseless.

When he opened his eyes again it was to the clanging of the bell of an ambulance. He was lying
in it, covered by a blanket, and it was threading its way slowly through the holiday-shopping
crowds. They took him to the county hospital, where a young surgeon set his arm; then he was
washed and laid upon a bed in a ward with a score or two more of maimed and mangled men.

Jurgis spent his Christmas in this hospital, and it was the pleasantest Christmas he had had
in America. Every year there were scandals and investigations in this institution, the newspapers
charging that doctors were allowed to try fantastic experiments upon the patients; but Jurgis
knew nothing of this--his only complaint was that they used to feed him upon tinned meat, which
no man who had ever worked in Packingtown would feed to his dog. Jurgis had often wondered
just who ate the canned corned beef and "roast beef" of the stockyards; now he began to understand--that
it was what you might call "graft meat," put up to be sold to public officials and contractors,
and eaten by soldiers and sailors, prisoners and inmates of institutions, "shantymen" and gangs
of railroad laborers.

Jurgis was ready to leave the hospital at the end of two weeks. This did not mean that his
arm was strong and that he was able to go back to work, but simply that he could get along
without further attention, and that his place was needed for some one worse off than he. That
he was utterly helpless, and had no means of keeping himself alive in the meantime, was something
which did not concern the hospital authorities, nor any one else in the city.

As it chanced, he had been hurt on a Monday, and had just paid for his last week's board and
his room rent, and spent nearly all the balance of his Saturday's pay. He had less than seventy-five
cents in his pockets, and a dollar and a half due him for the day's work he had done before
he was hurt. He might possibly have sued the company, and got some damages for his injuries,
but he did not know this, and it was not the company's business to tell him. He went and got
his pay and his tools, which he left in a pawnshop for fifty cents. Then he went to his landlady,
who had rented his place and had no other for him; and then to his boardinghouse keeper, who
looked him over and questioned him. As he must certainly be helpless for a couple of months,
and had boarded there only six weeks, she decided very quickly that it would not be worth the
risk to keep him on trust.

So Jurgis went out into the streets, in a most dreadful plight. It was bitterly cold, and a
heavy snow was falling, beating into his face. He had no overcoat, and no place to go, and
two dollars and sixty-five cents in his pocket, with the certainty that he could not earn another
cent for months. The snow meant no chance to him now; he must walk along and see others shoveling,
vigorous and active--and he with his left arm bound to his side! He could not hope to tide
himself over by odd jobs of loading trucks; he could not even sell newspapers or carry satchels,
because he was now at the mercy of any rival. Words could not paint the terror that came over
him as he realized all this. He was like a wounded animal in the forest; he was forced to compete
with his enemies upon unequal terms. There would be no consideration for him because of his
weakness--it was no one's business to help him in such distress, to make the fight the least
bit easier for him. Even if he took to begging, he would be at a disadvantage, for reasons
which he was to discover in good time.

In the beginning he could not think of anything except getting out of the awful cold. He went
into one of the saloons he had been wont to frequent and bought a drink, and then stood by
the fire shivering and waiting to be ordered out. According to an unwritten law, the buying
a drink included the privilege of loafing for just so long; then one had to buy another drink
or move on. That Jurgis was an old customer entitled him to a somewhat longer stop; but then
he had been away two weeks, and was evidently "on the bum." He might plead and tell his "hard
luck story," but that would not help him much; a saloon-keeper who was to be moved by such
means would soon have his place jammed to the doors with "hoboes" on a day like this.

So Jurgis went out into another place, and paid another nickel. He was so hungry this time
that he could not resist the hot beef stew, an indulgence which cut short his stay by a considerable
time. When he was again told to move on, he made his way to a "tough" place in the "Levee"
district, where now and then he had gone with a certain rat-eyed Bohemian workingman of his
acquaintance, seeking a woman. It was Jurgis's vain hope that here the proprietor would let
him remain as a "sitter." In low-class places, in the dead of winter, saloon-keepers would
often allow one or two forlorn-looking bums who came in covered with snow or soaked with rain
to sit by the fire and look miserable to attract custom. A workingman would come in, feeling
cheerful after his day's work was over, and it would trouble him to have to take his glass
with such a sight under his nose; and so he would call out: "Hello, Bub, what's the matter?
You look as if you'd been up against it!" And then the other would begin to pour out some tale
of misery, and the man would say, "Come have a glass, and maybe that'll brace you up." And
so they would drink together, and if the tramp was sufficiently wretched-looking, or good enough
at the "gab," they might have two; and if they were to discover that they were from the same
country, or had lived in the same city or worked at the same trade, they might sit down at
a table and spend an hour or two in talk--and before they got through the saloon-keeper would
have taken in a dollar. All of this might seem diabolical, but the saloon-keeper was in no
wise to blame for it. He was in the same plight as the manufacturer who has to adulterate and
misrepresent his product. If he does not, some one else will; and the saloon-keeper, unless
he is also an alderman, is apt to be in debt to the big brewers, and on the verge of being
sold out.

The market for "sitters" was glutted that afternoon, however, and there was no place for Jurgis.
In all he had to spend six nickels in keeping a shelter over him that frightful day, and then
it was just dark, and the station houses would not open until midnight! At the last place,
however, there was a bartender who knew him and liked him, and let him doze at one of the tables
until the boss came back; and also, as he was going out, the man gave him a tip--on the next
block there was a religious revival of some sort, with preaching and singing, and hundreds
of hoboes would go there for the shelter and warmth.

Jurgis went straightway, and saw a sign hung out, saying that the door would open at seven-thirty;
then he walked, or half ran, a block, and hid awhile in a doorway and then ran again, and so
on until the hour. At the end he was all but frozen, and fought his way in with the rest of
the throng (at the risk of having his arm broken again), and got close to the big stove.

By eight o'clock the place was so crowded that the speakers ought to have been flattered; the
aisles were filled halfway up, and at the door men were packed tight enough to walk upon. There
were three elderly gentlemen in black upon the platform, and a young lady who played the piano
in front. First they sang a hymn, and then one of the three, a tall, smooth-shaven man, very
thin, and wearing black spectacles, began an address. Jurgis heard smatterings of it, for the
reason that terror kept him awake--he knew that he snored abominably, and to have been put
out just then would have been like a sentence of death to him.

The evangelist was preaching "sin and redemption," the infinite grace of God and His pardon
for human frailty. He was very much in earnest, and he meant well, but Jurgis, as he listened,
found his soul filled with hatred. What did he know about sin and suffering--with his smooth,
black coat and his neatly starched collar, his body warm, and his belly full, and money in
his pocket--and lecturing men who were struggling for their lives, men at the death grapple
with the demon powers of hunger and cold!--This, of course, was unfair; but Jurgis felt that
these men were out of touch with the life they discussed, that they were unfitted to solve
its problems; nay, they themselves were part of the problem--they were part of the order established
that was crushing men down and beating them! They were of the triumphant and insolent possessors;
they had a hall, and a fire, and food and clothing and money, and so they might preach to hungry
men, and the hungry men must be humble and listen! They were trying to save their souls--and
who but a fool could fail to see that all that was the matter with their souls was that they
had not been able to get a decent existence for their bodies?

At eleven the meeting closed, and the desolate audience filed out into the snow, muttering
curses upon the few traitors who had got repentance and gone up on the platform. It was yet
an hour before the station house would open, and Jurgis had no overcoat--and was weak from
a long illness. During that hour he nearly perished. He was obliged to run hard to keep his
blood moving at all--and then he came back to the station house and found a crowd blocking
the street before the door! This was in the month of January, 1904, when the country was on
the verge of "hard times," and the newspapers were reporting the shutting down of factories
every day--it was estimated that a million and a half men were thrown out of work before the
spring. So all the hiding places of the city were crowded, and before that station house door
men fought and tore each other like savage beasts. When at last the place was jammed and they
shut the doors, half the crowd was still outside; and Jurgis, with his helpless arm, was among
them. There was no choice then but to go to a lodginghouse and spend another dime. It really
broke his heart to do this, at half-past twelve o'clock, after he had wasted the night at the
meeting and on the street. He would be turned out of the lodginghouse promptly at seven they
had the shelves which served as bunks so contrived that they could be dropped, and any man
who was slow about obeying orders could be tumbled to the floor.

This was one day, and the cold spell lasted for fourteen of them. At the end of six days every
cent of Jurgis' money was gone; and then he went out on the streets to beg for his life.

He would begin as soon as the business of the city was moving. He would sally forth from a
saloon, and, after making sure there was no policeman in sight, would approach every likely-looking
person who passed him, telling his woeful story and pleading for a nickel or a dime. Then when
he got one, he would dart round the corner and return to his base to get warm; and his victim,
seeing him do this, would go away, vowing that he would never give a cent to a beggar again.
The victim never paused to ask where else Jurgis could have gone under the circumstances--where
he, the victim, would have gone. At the saloon Jurgis could not only get more food and better
food than he could buy in any restaurant for the same money, but a drink in the bargain to
warm him up. Also he could find a comfortable seat by a fire, and could chat with a companion
until he was as warm as toast. At the saloon, too, he felt at home. Part of the saloon-keeper's
business was to offer a home and refreshments to beggars in exchange for the proceeds of their
foragings; and was there any one else in the whole city who would do this--would the victim
have done it himself?

Poor Jurgis might have been expected to make a successful beggar. He was just out of the hospital,
and desperately sick-looking, and with a helpless arm; also he had no overcoat, and shivered
pitifully. But, alas, it was again the case of the honest merchant, who finds that the genuine
and unadulterated article is driven to the wall by the artistic counterfeit. Jurgis, as a beggar,
was simply a blundering amateur in competition with organized and scientific professionalism.
He was just out of the hospital--but the story was worn threadbare, and how could he prove
it? He had his arm in a sling--and it was a device a regular beggar's little boy would have
scorned. He was pale and shivering--but they were made up with cosmetics, and had studied the
art of chattering their teeth. As to his being without an overcoat, among them you would meet
men you could swear had on nothing but a ragged linen duster and a pair of cotton trousers--so
cleverly had they concealed the several suits of all-wool underwear beneath. Many of these
professional mendicants had comfortable homes, and families, and thousands of dollars in the
bank; some of them had retired upon their earnings, and gone into the business of fitting out
and doctoring others, or working children at the trade. There were some who had both their
arms bound tightly to their sides, and padded stumps in their sleeves, and a sick child hired
to carry a cup for them. There were some who had no legs, and pushed themselves upon a wheeled
platform--some who had been favored with blindness, and were led by pretty little dogs. Some
less fortunate had mutilated themselves or burned themselves, or had brought horrible sores
upon themselves with chemicals; you might suddenly encounter upon the street a man holding
out to you a finger rotting and discolored with gangrene--or one with livid scarlet wounds
half escaped from their filthy bandages. These desperate ones were the dregs of the city's
cesspools, wretches who hid at night in the rain-soaked cellars of old ramshackle tenements,
in "stale-beer dives" and opium joints, with abandoned women in the last stages of the harlot's
progress--women who had been kept by Chinamen and turned away at last to die. Every day the
police net would drag hundreds of them off the streets, and in the detention hospital you might
see them, herded together in a miniature inferno, with hideous, beastly faces, bloated and
leprous with disease, laughing, shouting, screaming in all stages of drunkenness, barking like
dogs, gibbering like apes, raving and tearing themselves in delirium.

Chapter 24

In the face of all his handicaps, Jurgis was obliged to make the price of a lodging, and of
a drink every hour or two, under penalty of freezing to death. Day after day he roamed about
in the arctic cold, his soul filled full of bitterness and despair. He saw the world of civilization
then more plainly than ever he had seen it before; a world in which nothing counted but brutal
might, an order devised by those who possessed it for the subjugation of those who did not.
He was one of the latter; and all outdoors, all life, was to him one colossal prison, which
he paced like a pent-up tiger, trying one bar after another, and finding them all beyond his
power. He had lost in the fierce battle of greed, and so was doomed to be exterminated; and
all society was busied to see that he did not escape the sentence. Everywhere that he turned
were prison bars, and hostile eyes following him; the well-fed, sleek policemen, from whose
glances he shrank, and who seemed to grip their clubs more tightly when they saw him; the saloon-keepers,
who never ceased to watch him while he was in their places, who were jealous of every moment
he lingered after he had paid his money; the hurrying throngs upon the streets, who were deaf
to his entreaties, oblivious of his very existence--and savage and contemptuous when he forced
himself upon them. They had their own affairs, and there was no place for him among them. There
was no place for him anywhere--every direction he turned his gaze, this fact was forced upon
him: Everything was built to express it to him: the residences, with their heavy walls and
bolted doors, and basement windows barred with iron; the great warehouses filled with the products
of the whole world, and guarded by iron shutters and heavy gates; the banks with their unthinkable
billions of wealth, all buried in safes and vaults of steel.

And then one day there befell Jurgis the one adventure of his life. It was late at night, and
he had failed to get the price of a lodging. Snow was falling, and he had been out so long
that he was covered with it, and was chilled to the bone. He was working among the theater
crowds, flitting here and there, taking large chances with the police, in his desperation half
hoping to be arrested. When he saw a bluecoat start toward him, however, his heart failed him,
and he dashed down a side street and fled a couple of blocks. When he stopped again he saw
a man coming toward him, and placed himself in his path.

"Please, sir," he began, in the usual formula, "will you give me the price of a lodging? I've
had a broken arm, and I can't work, and I've not a cent in my pocket. I'm an honest working-man,
sir, and I never begged before! It's not my fault, sir--"

Jurgis usually went on until he was interrupted, but this man did not interrupt, and so at
last he came to a breathless stop. The other had halted, and Jurgis suddenly noticed that he
stood a little unsteadily. "Whuzzat you say?" he queried suddenly, in a thick voice.

Jurgis began again, speaking more slowly and distinctly; before he was half through the other
put out his hand and rested it upon his shoulder. "Poor ole chappie!" he said. "Been up--hic--up--against
it, hey?"

Then he lurched toward Jurgis, and the hand upon his shoulder became an arm about his neck.
"Up against it myself, ole sport," he said. "She's a hard ole world."

They were close to a lamppost, and Jurgis got a glimpse of the other. He was a young fellow--not
much over eighteen, with a handsome boyish face. He wore a silk hat and a rich soft overcoat
with a fur collar; and he smiled at Jurgis with benignant sympathy. "I'm hard up, too, my goo'
fren'," he said. "I've got cruel parents, or I'd set you up. Whuzzamatter whizyer?"

"I've been in the hospital."

"Hospital!" exclaimed the young fellow, still smiling sweetly, "thass too bad! Same's my Aunt
Polly--hic--my Aunt Polly's in the hospital, too--ole auntie's been havin' twins! Whuzzamatter
whiz you?"

"I've got a broken arm--" Jurgis began.

"So," said the other, sympathetically. "That ain't so bad--you get over that. I wish somebody'd
break my arm, ole chappie--damfidon't! Then they'd treat me better--hic--hole me up, ole sport!
Whuzzit you wammme do?"

"I'm hungry, sir," said Jurgis.

"Hungry! Why don't you hassome supper?"

"I've got no money, sir."

"No money! Ho, ho--less be chums, ole boy--jess like me! No money, either--a'most busted! Why
don't you go home, then, same's me?"

"I haven't any home," said Jurgis.

"No home! Stranger in the city, hey? Goo' God, thass bad! Better come home wiz me--yes, by
Harry, thass the trick, you'll come home an' hassome supper--hic--wiz me! Awful lonesome--nobody
home! Guv'ner gone abroad--Bubby on's honeymoon--Polly havin' twins--every damn soul gone away!
Nuff--hic--nuff to drive a feller to drink, I say! Only ole Ham standin' by, passin' plates--damfican
eat like that, no sir! The club for me every time, my boy, I say. But then they won't lemme
sleep there--guv'ner's orders, by Harry--home every night, sir! Ever hear anythin' like that?
'Every mornin' do?' I asked him. 'No, sir, every night, or no allowance at all, sir.' Thass
my guv'ner--'nice as nails, by Harry! Tole ole Ham to watch me, too--servants spyin' on me--whuzyer
think that, my fren'? A nice, quiet--hic--goodhearted young feller like me, an' his daddy can't
go to Europe--hup!--an' leave him in peace! Ain't that a shame, sir? An' I gotter go home every
evenin' an' miss all the fun, by Harry! Thass whuzzamatter now--thass why I'm here! Hadda come
away an' leave Kitty--hic--left her cryin', too--whujja think of that, ole sport? 'Lemme go,
Kittens,' says I--'come early an' often--I go where duty--hic--calls me. Farewell, farewell,
my own true love--farewell, farewehell, my--own true--love!'"

This last was a song, and the young gentleman's voice rose mournful and wailing, while he swung
upon Jurgis's neck. The latter was glancing about nervously, lest some one should approach.
They were still alone, however.

"But I came all right, all right," continued the youngster, aggressively, "I can--hic--I can
have my own way when I want it, by Harry--Freddie Jones is a hard man to handle when he gets
goin'! 'No, sir,' says I, 'by thunder, and I don't need anybody goin' home with me, either--whujja
take me for, hey? Think I'm drunk, dontcha, hey?--I know you! But I'm no more drunk than you
are, Kittens,' says I to her. And then says she, 'Thass true, Freddie dear' (she's a smart
one, is Kitty), 'but I'm stayin' in the flat, an' you're goin' out into the cold, cold night!'
'Put it in a pome, lovely Kitty,' says I. 'No jokin', Freddie, my boy,' says she. 'Lemme call
a cab now, like a good dear'--but I can call my own cabs, dontcha fool yourself--and I know
what I'm a-doin', you bet! Say, my fren', whatcha say--willye come home an' see me, an' hassome
supper? Come 'long like a good feller--don't be haughty! You're up against it, same as me,
an' you can unerstan' a feller; your heart's in the right place, by Harry--come 'long, ole
chappie, an' we'll light up the house, an' have some fizz, an' we'll raise hell, we will--whoop-la!
S'long's I'm inside the house I can do as I please--the guv'ner's own very orders, b'God! Hip!
hip!"

They had started down the street, arm in arm, the young man pushing Jurgis along, half dazed.
Jurgis was trying to think what to do--he knew he could not pass any crowded place with his
new acquaintance without attracting attention and being stopped. It was only because of the
falling snow that people who passed here did not notice anything wrong.

Suddenly, therefore, Jurgis stopped. "Is it very far?" he inquired.

"Not very," said the other, "Tired, are you, though? Well, we'll ride--whatcha say? Good! Call
a cab!"

And then, gripping Jurgis tight with one hand, the young fellow began searching his pockets
with the other. "You call, ole sport, an' I'll pay," he suggested. "How's that, hey?"

And he pulled out from somewhere a big roll of bills. It was more money than Jurgis had ever
seen in his life before, and he stared at it with startled eyes.

"Looks like a lot, hey?" said Master Freddie, fumbling with it. "Fool you, though, ole chappie--they're
all little ones! I'll be busted in one week more, sure thing--word of honor. An' not a cent
more till the first--hic--guv'ner's orders--hic--not a cent, by Harry! Nuff to set a feller
crazy, it is. I sent him a cable, this af'noon--thass one reason more why I'm goin' home. 'Hangin'
on the verge of starvation,' I says--'for the honor of the family--hic--sen' me some bread.
Hunger will compel me to join you--Freddie.' Thass what I wired him, by Harry, an' I mean it--I'll
run away from school, b'God, if he don't sen' me some."

After this fashion the young gentleman continued to prattle on--and meantime Jurgis was trembling
with excitement. He might grab that wad of bills and be out of sight in the darkness before
the other could collect his wits. Should he do it? What better had he to hope for, if he waited
longer? But Jurgis had never committed a crime in his life, and now he hesitated half a second
too long. "Freddie" got one bill loose, and then stuffed the rest back into his trousers' pocket.

"Here, ole man," he said, "you take it." He held it out fluttering. They were in front of a
saloon; and by the light of the window Jurgis saw that it was a hundred-dollar bill! "You take
it," the other repeated. "Pay the cabbie an' keep the change--I've got--hic--no head for business!
Guv'ner says so hisself, an' the guv'ner knows--the guv'ner's got a head for business, you
bet! 'All right, guv'ner,' I told him, 'you run the show, and I'll take the tickets!' An' so
he set Aunt Polly to watch me--hic--an' now Polly's off in the hospital havin' twins, an' me
out raisin' Cain! Hello, there! Hey! Call him!"

A cab was driving by; and Jurgis sprang and called, and it swung round to the curb. Master
Freddie clambered in with some difficulty, and Jurgis had started to follow, when the driver
shouted: "Hi, there! Get out--you!"

Jurgis hesitated, and was half obeying; but his companion broke out: "Whuzzat? Whuzzamatter
wiz you, hey?"

And the cabbie subsided, and Jurgis climbed in. Then Freddie gave a number on the Lake Shore
Drive, and the carriage started away. The youngster leaned back and snuggled up to Jurgis,
murmuring contentedly; in half a minute he was sound asleep, Jurgis sat shivering, speculating
as to whether he might not still be able to get hold of the roll of bills. He was afraid to
try to go through his companion's pockets, however; and besides the cabbie might be on the
watch. He had the hundred safe, and he would have to be content with that.

At the end of half an hour or so the cab stopped. They were out on the waterfront, and from
the east a freezing gale was blowing off the ice-bound lake. "Here we are," called the cabbie,
and Jurgis awakened his companion.

Master Freddie sat up with a start.

"Hello!" he said. "Where are we? Whuzzis? Who are you, hey? Oh, yes, sure nuff! Mos' forgot
you--hic--ole chappie! Home, are we? Lessee! Br-r-r--it's cold! Yes--come 'long--we're home--it
ever so--hic--humble!"

Before them there loomed an enormous granite pile, set far back from the street, and occupying
a whole block. By the light of the driveway lamps Jurgis could see that it had towers and huge
gables, like a medieval castle. He thought that the young fellow must have made a mistake--it
was inconceivable to him that any person could have a home like a hotel or the city hall. But
he followed in silence, and they went up the long flight of steps, arm in arm.

"There's a button here, ole sport," said Master Freddie. "Hole my arm while I find her! Steady,
now--oh, yes, here she is! Saved!"

A bell rang, and in a few seconds the door was opened. A man in blue livery stood holding it,
and gazing before him, silent as a statue.

They stood for a moment blinking in the light. Then Jurgis felt his companion pulling, and
he stepped in, and the blue automaton closed the door. Jurgis's heart was beating wildly; it
was a bold thing for him to do--into what strange unearthly place he was venturing he had no
idea. Aladdin entering his cave could not have been more excited.

The place where he stood was dimly lighted; but he could see a vast hall, with pillars fading
into the darkness above, and a great staircase opening at the far end of it. The floor was
of tesselated marble, smooth as glass, and from the walls strange shapes loomed out, woven
into huge portieres in rich, harmonious colors, or gleaming from paintings, wonderful and mysterious-looking
in the half-light, purple and red and golden, like sunset glimmers in a shadowy forest.

The man in livery had moved silently toward them; Master Freddie took off his hat and handed
it to him, and then, letting go of Jurgis' arm, tried to get out of his overcoat. After two
or three attempts he accomplished this, with the lackey's help, and meantime a second man had
approached, a tall and portly personage, solemn as an executioner. He bore straight down upon
Jurgis, who shrank away nervously; he seized him by the arm without a word, and started toward
the door with him. Then suddenly came Master Freddie's voice, "Hamilton! My fren' will remain
wiz me."

