SOUTH AFRICAN MEMORIES

SOCIAL, WARLIKE & SPORTING

FROM DIARIES WRITTEN AT THE TIME

BY

LADY SARAH WILSON

     LONDON
     EDWARD ARNOLD
     1909

DEDICATION

     TO THE MEMORY OF MY
     BELOVED SISTER,
     GEORGIANA, COUNTESS HOWE,
     TO WHOSE EFFORTS AND UNCEASING
     LABOURS IN CONNECTION WITH THE YEOMANRY HOSPITALS,
     DURING THE WAR IN SOUTH AFRICA, THE EARLY
     BREAKDOWN OF HER HEALTH, AND
     SUBSEQUENT DEATH, WERE
     UNDOUBTEDLY DUE,
     THIS BOOK,
     CONTAINING RECOLLECTIONS OF THAT
     GREAT AND MYSTERIOUS LAND, THE GRAVE
     OF SO MANY BRAVE ENGLISHMEN, IS AFFECTIONATELY
     DEDICATED

PREFACE

Everything of interest that has happened to me in life chances to have been in connection with
South Africa. In that land, where some of my happiest days have been spent, I have also experienced
long periods of intense excitement and anxiety; there I have made acquaintance with all the
charm of the veldt, in the vast country north of the great Zambesi River, hearing the roar
of the lions at night, and following their "spoor" by day; and last, but not least, I have
there made some very good friends. Only a few years ago, when peacefully spending a few weeks
at Assouan in Egypt, I was nearly drowned by the capsizing of a boat in the Nile; again the
spirit of the vast continent (on this occasion far away to the north) seemed to watch over
me. For all these reasons I venture to claim the indulgence of the public and the kindness
of my friends, for these recollections of days in South Africa, in which shade and sunshine
have been strangely mingled, and which to me have never been dull. To sum up, I have always
found that life is what you make it, and have often proved the truth of the saying, "Adventures
to the adventurous."

I am indebted to Colonel Vyvyan for statistics respecting the Mafeking Relief Fund; and to
Miss A. Fielding, secretary to the late Countess Howe, for a résumé of the work of the Yeomanry
Hospital during the Boer War.

     S.I.W.

     THE STUD HOUSE,
     HAMPTON COURT.
     September, 1909.

CONTENTS

     I. FIRST VOYAGE TO SOUTH AFRICA--CAPE TOWN

     II. KIMBERLEY AND THE JAMESON RAID

     III. THE IMMEDIATE RESULTS OF THE RAID--THE RAIDERS THEMSELVES

     IV. JOHANNESBURG AND PRETORIA IN 1896

     V. THREE YEARS AFTER--LORD MILNER AT CAPE TOWN BEFORE THE WAR--MR.
     CECIL RHODES AT GROOT SCHUURR--OTHER INTERESTING PERSONAGES

     VI. PREPARATIONS FOR WAR--MAFEKING, AND DEPARTURE THEREFROM

     VII. IN A REBELLIOUS COLONY--VISIT TO VRYBURG DURING THE
     BOER OCCUPATION--I PASS OFF AS A DUTCHMAN'S SISTER

     VIII. BETRAYED BY A PIGEON--THE BOERS COME AT LAST

     IX. HOW I WAS MADE A PRISONER--IN A BOER LAAGER

     X. EXCHANGED FOR A HORSE-THIEF--BACK TO MAFEKING
     AFTER TWO MONTHS' WANDERINGS

     XI. LIFE IN A BESIEGED TOWN

     XII. LIFE IN A BESIEGED TOWN (continued)

     XIII. ELOFF'S DETERMINED ATTACK ON
     MAFEKING, AND THE RELIEF OF THE TOWN

     XIV. ACROSS THE TRANSVAAL TO PRETORIA DURING THE WAR

     XV. PRETORIA AND JOHANNESBURG UNDER LORD ROBERTS AND MILITARY LAW

     XVI. MY RETURN TO CIVILIZATION ONCE MORE--THE
     MAFEKING FUND--LETTERS FROM THE KING AND QUEEN

     XVII. THE WORK OF LADY GEORGIANA CURZON, LADY CHESHAM, AND THE
     YEOMANRY HOSPITAL, DURING THE WAR--THIRD VOYAGE TO THE CAPE, 1902

     XVIII. FOURTH VOYAGE TO THE CAPE--THE VICTORIA
     FALLS AND SIX WEEKS NORTH OF THE ZAMBESI

     APPENDIX I. MAFEKING RELIEF FUND

     APPENDIX II. IMPERIAL YEOMANRY HOSPITALS, 1900-1902

CHAPTER I

     FIRST VOYAGE TO SOUTH AFRICA--CAPE TOWN.

     "Oh that mine adversary had written a book!"--JOB xxxi. 35.

The above words, written by one of the greatest philosophers of olden time, have often impressed
me, and I have frequently quoted them when asked why I did not write an account of the interesting
travels and adventures I have had in my life. It has therefore required a great deal of courage
to take up my pen and record a few recollections of South Africa. I felt that, were they ever
to be written at all, it must be before the rapidly passing years diminish the interest in
that land, which in the past has been the object of such engrossing attention; and that at
the present time, when the impending Federation of South Africa has at length crowned the hopes
of those patriots who have laboured patiently and hopefully to bring about this great result,
it might be appropriate to recall those days when Englishmen, who had made South Africa their
home, had much to contend with, even before the fierce struggle to keep "the flag flying" in
the years of 1899-1902.

During that period, which commenced after the disaster at Majuba Hill, "equal rights" were
a golden dream which only the most optimistic ever hoped to see realized. From then onwards,
as old colonists have so often told me, the Boers brought up the younger generation in the
belief that the "Roinek"[1] was a coward, and in consequence their arrogance in the country
districts became wellnigh intolerable, while at the Cape the Bond party grew so strong it bid
fair to elbow out the English altogether. Now, while the country is still young, the fair prospect
opens out of Briton and Boer living in amity and peace together, and mutually supplying, in
the government of their vast inheritance, such elements as are wanting in the character of each.

My first visit to South Africa was a short one, and took place at the end of 1895. During the
foregoing summer everyone's attention had been directed to the Transvaal, and more especially
towards the Rand, by reason of the unprecedented and, as it turned out, totally unwarranted
rise in the gold-mining shares of that district; in this boom, people both at home and in Johannesburg
madly gambled, and large fortunes were quickly made by those who had foresight enough not to
hold on too long. For already the political horizon was darkening, and the wrongs of the "Uitlanders,"
real and apparent as they were, became a parrot-cry, which waxed and waned, but never died
away, till the ultimatum of President Kruger, in October, 1899, brought matters to a climax.

We sailed from Southampton in December, 1895, in the Tantallon Castle, then one of the most
modern and up-to-date of the Castle liners. The ship was crowded to its utmost capacity, and
among the passengers, as I afterwards learned, were many deeply concerned in the plotting which
was known to be going on at Johannesburg, either to extort concessions from President Kruger,
or, failing this, to remove him altogether. I knew very little about all this then, but before
I had been many days on board it was not difficult to discover that much mystery filled the
air, and I was greatly excited at arriving in South Africa in such stirring times. There is
no such place for getting to know people well as on a sea-voyage of eighteen days. Somehow
the sea inspires confidence, and one knows that information imparted cannot, anyway, be posted
off by the same day's mail. So those who were helping to pull the strings of this ill-fated
rebellion talked pretty freely of their hopes and fears during the long, dark tropical evenings.

I became familiar with their grievances--their unfair taxation; no education for their children
except in Dutch; no representation in Parliament--and this in a population in which, at that
time, the English and Afrikanders at Johannesburg and in the surrounding districts outnumbered
the Dutch in the proportion of about 6 to 1. They laid stress on the fact that neither the
Boers nor their children were, or desired to become, miners, and, further, that for the enormous
sums spent on developing and working the mines no proper security existed. I must admit it
was the fiery-headed followers who talked the loudest--those who had nothing to lose and much
to gain. The financiers, while directing and encouraging their zeal, seemed almost with the
same hand to wish to put on the brake and damp their martial ardour. In any case, all were
so eloquent that by the time our voyage was ended I felt as great a rebel against "Oom Paul"
and his Government as any one of them.

Before leaving the Tantallon Castle, however, I must pass in review some of those whose home
it had been with ourselves for the best part of three weeks. First I remember the late Mr.
Alfred Beit, interesting as the man who had made the most colossal fortune of all the South
African magnates, and who was then already said to be the most generous of philanthropists
and the kindest of friends; this reputation he fully sustained in the subsequent years of his
life and in the generous disposition of his vast wealth. I have often been told that Mr. Cecil
Rhodes owed the inspiration of some of his colossal ideas to his friend Mr. Beit, and when
it came to financing the same, the latter was always ready to assist in carrying out projects
to extend and consolidate the Empire. In these latter years, and since his comparatively early
death, I have heard those who still bear the brunt of the battle lament his loss, and remark,
when a railway was to be built or a new part of the country opened up, how much more expeditiously
it would be done were Mr. Beit still alive.

Other names that occur to me are Mr. Abe Bailey, well known in racing circles to-day, and then
reputed a millionaire, the foundation of whose fortune consisted in a ten-pound note borrowed
from a friend. Mr. Wools Sampson,[2] who subsequently so greatly distinguished himself at Ladysmith,
where he was dangerously wounded, had an individuality all his own; he had seen every side
of life as a soldier of fortune, attached to different regiments, during all the fighting in
South Africa of the preceding years. He was then a mining expert, associated with Mr. Bailey
in Lydenburg, but his heart evidently lay in fighting and in pursuing the different kinds of
wild animals that make their home on the African veldt. Dr. Rutherford Harris, then the Secretary
of the Chartered Company; Mr. Henry Milner, an old friend; Mr. Geoffrey Glyn and Mr. F. Guest,
are others whom I specially remember; besides many more, some of whom have joined the vast
majority, and others whom I have altogether lost sight of, but who helped to make the voyage
a very pleasant one.

We landed at Cape Town shortly before Christmas Day. As I have since learnt by the experience
of many voyages, it is nearly always at dawn that a liner is brought alongside the quay at
the conclusion of a long voyage; in consequence, sleep is almost out of the question the last
night at sea, owing to the noisy manipulations of the mail-bags and luggage. However, one is
always so glad to get on shore that it is of very little import, and on this occasion we were
all anxious to glean the latest news after being cut off from the world for so many days. The
papers contained gloomy accounts of the markets. "King Slump" still held his sway, and things
abroad looked very unsettled; so most of our friends appeared, when we met later, with very
long faces. After breakfast, leaving our luggage to the tender mercies of some officious agent,
who professed to see it "through the Customs," we took a hansom and drove to the Grand Hotel,
en route to the hotel, in the suburb of Newlands, where we had taken rooms. My first impressions
of Cape Town certainly were not prepossessing, and well I remember them, even after all these
years. The dust was blowing in clouds, stirred up by the "south-easter" one hears so much about--an
icy blast which appears to come straight from the South Pole, and which often makes its appearance
in the height of summer, which season it then was. The hansom, of the oldest-fashioned type,
shook and jolted beyond belief, and threatened every moment to fall to pieces. The streets
from the docks to the town were unfinished, untidy, and vilely paved, and I remember comparing
them very unfavourably with Melbourne or Sydney. However, I soon modified my somewhat hasty
judgment. We had seen the town's worst aspects, and later I noticed some attractive-looking
shops; the imposing Houses of Parliament, in their enclosed grounds, standing out sharply defined
against the hazy background of Table Mountain; and the Standard Bank and Railway-station, which
would hold their own in any city. At the same time, as a place of residence in the summer months,
I can well understand Cape Town being wellnigh deserted. Those who can boast of even the most
moderate means have their residences in the attractive suburbs of Rondebosch, Newlands, or
Wynberg, and innumerable are the pretty little villas and gardens one sees in these vicinities.
There the country is beautifully wooded, thick arching avenues of oak extending for miles,
interspersed with tracts of Scotch firs and pines, the latter exhaling a delicious perfume
under the sun's powerful rays. Everywhere green foliage and abundant vegetation, which, combined
with the setting of the bluest sky that can be imagined, make the drives round Cape Town some
of the most beautiful in the world. At Newlands, the Governor's summer residence, a pretty
but unpretentious abode, Sir Hercules and Lady Robinson then dispensed generous hospitality,
only regretting their house was too small to accommodate visitors, besides their married daughters.
We stayed at the Vineyard Hotel in the immediate neighbourhood--a funny old-fashioned hostelry,
standing in its own grounds, and not in the least like an hotel as we understand the word.
There whole families seemed to reside for months, and very comfortable it was, if somewhat
primitive, appearing to keep itself far apart from the rush of modern improvements, and allowing
the world to go by it unheeded. Only half a mile away, at Rondebosch, was situated then, as
now, on the lower slopes of Table Mountain, the princely domain of the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes.
At the moment of which I write the house itself was only approaching completion, and I must
now record a few particulars of our introduction to this great Englishman and his world-famed
home. We drove to Groot Schuurr, or "Great Barn," one afternoon with Mr. Beit. The house is
approached by a long avenue of enormously high Scotch firs, which almost meet aloft, and remind
one of the nave of some mighty cathedral, such is the subdued effect produced by the sunlight
even on the brightest summer day. A slight rise in the road, a serpentine sweep, and the house
itself comes into view, white, low, and rambling, with many gables and a thatched roof. The
right wing was then hidden by scaffolding, and workmen were also busy putting in a new front-door,
of which more anon; for a tall, burly gentleman in a homely costume of flannels and a slouch
hat emerged from the unfinished room, where he would seem to have been directing the workmen,
and we were introduced to Cecil John Rhodes, the Prime Minister of Cape Colony.

I looked at the man, of whom I had heard so much, with a great deal of curiosity. Shy and diffident
with strangers, his manner even somewhat abrupt, one could not fail to be impressed with the
expression of power, resolution, and kindness, on the rugged countenance, and with the keen,
piercing glance of the blue eyes, which seemed to read one through in an instant. He greeted
us, as he did every newcomer, most warmly, and under his guidance we passed into the completed
portion of the house, the rooms of which were not only most comfortable, but also perfect in
every detail as regards the model he wished to copy--viz., a Dutch house of 200 years ago,
even down to the massive door aforementioned, which he had just purchased for £200 from a colonial
family mansion, and which seemed to afford him immense pleasure. As a first fleeting memory
of the interior of Groot Schuurr, I call to mind Dutch armoires, all incontestably old and
of lovely designs, Dutch chests, inlaid high-backed chairs, costly Oriental rugs, and everywhere
teak panelling--the whole producing a vision of perfect taste and old-world repose. It was
then Mr. Rhodes's intention to have no electric light, or even lamps, and burn nothing but
tallow candles, so as to keep up the illusion of antiquity; but whether he would have adhered
to this determination it is impossible to say, as the house we saw was burnt to the ground
later on, and is now rebuilt on exactly the same lines, but with electric light, every modern
comfort, and lovely old red tiles to replace the quaint thatched roof.

Passing through the rooms, we came to the wide verandah, or stoep, on the other or eastern
side. This ran the whole length of the edifice, and was used as a delightful lounge, being
provided with luxurious settees and armchairs. From here Mr. Rhodes pointed out the view he
loved so well, and which comes vividly to my mind to-day. In front three terraces rise immediately
beyond the gravel courtyard, which is enclosed on three sides by the stoep. These, bright with
flowers, lead to a great grass plateau, on which some more splendid specimens of Scotch firs
rear their lofty heads; while behind, covered with trees and vegetation, its brilliant green
veiled by misty heat, Table Mountain forms a glorious background, in striking contrast to the
cobalt of the heavens. To the right of the terraces is a glade, entirely covered with vivid
blue hydrangeas in full bloom, giving the appearance of a tract of azure ground. Lower down
the hillside, in little valleys, amidst oak and other English forest trees, a carpet is formed
of cannas of many hues, interspersed with masses of gleaming white arum lilies, which grow
here wild in very great profusion.

Our time was too short on this occasion to see any portion of Mr. Rhodes's estate or the animals--antelope
of many kinds, wildebeestes, elands, and zebras--which roamed through his woods. We lunched
with him two days later on Christmas Eve, and then the weather was so hot that we only lazily
enjoyed the shade and breezes on the stoep. Well do I remember on that occasion how preoccupied
was our host, and how incessantly the talk turned to Johannesburg and the raging discontent
there. In truth, Mr. Rhodes's position was then a very difficult one: he was Prime Minister
of Cape Colony, and therefore officially neutral; but in his heart he remained the keen champion
of the oppressed Uitlanders, having nominated his brother, Frank Rhodes, to be one of the leaders
of the Reform Committee at Johannesburg. No wonder he was graver than was his wont, with many
complications overshadowing him, as one afterwards so fully realized. His kindness as a host,
however, suffered no diminution, and I remember how warmly he pressed us to stay with him when
we returned from the north, though he did add, "My plans are a little unsettled." This suggested
visit, however, was never paid; Mr. Rhodes a few weeks afterwards was starting for England,
to, as he termed it, "face the music." I shall have occasion to describe him in his home, and
the life at Groot Schuurr, more fully later on, when I passed many happy and never-to-be-forgotten
weeks beneath his hospitable roof. As years went on, his kindness to both friends and political
foes grew almost proverbial, but even in 1895 Groot Schuurr, barely finished, was already known
to be one of the pleasantest places near Cape Town--a meeting-place for all the men of the
colony either on their way to and from England, or on the occasion of their flying visits to
the capital.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Red neck, or Englishman.

[2] Now Sir A. Wools Sampson, K.C.B.

CHAPTER II

     KIMBERLEY AND THE JAMESON RAID

     "Ex Africa semper aliquid novi."

In the last week of the old year we started on our journey to Kimberley, then a matter of thirty-six
hours. The whole of one day we dawdled over the Great Karroo in pelting rain and mist, which
reminded one of Scotland. This sandy desert was at that season covered with brown scrub, for
it was yet too early for the rains to have made it green, and the only signs of life were a
few ostriches, wild white goats, and, very rarely, a waggon piled with wood, drawn along the
sandy road by ten or twelve donkeys. As to vegetation, there were huge clumps of mimosa-bushes,
just shedding their yellow blossoms, through which the branches showed up with their long white
thorns, giving them a weird and withered appearance. It must indeed have required great courage
on behalf of the old Voor-trekker Boers, when they and their families left Cape Colony, at
the time of the Great Trek, in long lines of white-tented waggons, to have penetrated through
that dreary-waste in search of the promised land, of green veldt and running streams, which
they had heard of, as lying away to the north, and eventually found in the Transvaal. I have
been told that President Kruger was on this historical trek, a Voor-looper, or little boy who
guides the leading oxen.

Round Kimberley the country presented a very different appearance, and here we saw the real
veldt covered with short grass, just beginning to get burnt up by the summer's heat. Our host,
Mr. J. B. Currey, a name well known in Diamond-Field circles, met us at the station. This is
a good old South African custom, and always seems to me to be the acme of welcoming hospitality,
and the climax to the kindness of inviting people to stay, merely on the recommendation of
friends--quite a common occurrence in the colonies, and one which, I think, is never sufficiently
appreciated, the entertainers themselves thinking it so natural a proceeding.

Kimberley itself and the diamond industry have both been so often and so well described that
I shall beware of saying much of either, and I will only note a few things I remarked about
this town, once humming with speculation, business, and movement, but now the essence of a
sleepy respectability and visible prosperity. For the uninitiated it is better to state that
the cause of this change was the gradual amalgamation of the diamond-mines and conflicting
interests, which was absolutely necessary to limit the output of diamonds. As a result the
stranger soon perceives that the whole community revolves on one axis, and is centred, so to
speak, in one authority. "De Beers" is the moving spirit, the generous employer, and the universal
benefactor. At that time there were 7,000 men employed in the mines, white and black, the skilled
mechanics receiving as much as £6 a week. Evidence of the generosity of this company was seen
in the model village built for the white workmen; in the orchard containing 7,000 fruit-trees,
then one of Mr. Rhodes's favourite hobbies; and in the stud-farm for improving the breed of
horses in South Africa. If I asked the profession of any of the smart young men who frequented
the house where we were staying, for games of croquet, it amused me always to receive the same
answer, "He is something in De Beers." The town itself boasts of many commodious public buildings,
a great number of churches of all denominations, an excellent and well-known club; but whatever
the edifice, the roofing is always corrugated iron, imported, I was told, from Wolverhampton.
This roofing, indeed, prevails over the whole of new South Africa; and although it appears
a very unsuitable protection from the burning rays of the African sun, no doubt its comparative
cheapness and the quickness of its erection are the reasons why this style was introduced,
and has been adhered to. By dint of superhuman efforts, in spite of locust-plagues, drought,
and heavy thunderstorms, the inhabitants have contrived to surround their little one-storied
villas with gardens bright with flowers, many creepers of vivid hues covering all the trellis-work
of the verandahs.

The interest of Kimberley, however, soon paled and waned as the all-engrossing events of the
Uitlander rebellion in Johannesburg rapidly succeeded each other. One sultry evening our host
brought us news of tangible trouble on the Rand: some ladies who were about to leave for that
locality had received wires to defer their departure. Instantly, I recollect, my thoughts flew
back to the Tantallon Castle and the dark words we had heard whispered, so it was not as much
of a surprise to me as to the residents at Kimberley; to them it came as a perfect bombshell,
so well had the secret been kept. The next day the text of the Manifesto, issued by Mr. Leonard,
a lawyer, in the name of the Uitlanders, to protest against their grievances, appeared in all
the morning papers, and its eloquent language aroused the greatest enthusiasm in the town.
Thus was the gauntlet thrown down with a vengeance, and an ominous chord was struck by the
statement, also in the papers, that Mr. Leonard had immediately left for Cape Town, "lest he
should be arrested." It must be remembered that any barrister, English or Afrikander, holding
an official position in the Transvaal, had at that time to take the oath of allegiance to the
Boer Government before being free to practise his calling. The explanation of the exceedingly
acute feeling at Kimberley in those anxious days lay in the fact that nearly everyone had relations
or friends in the Golden City. Our hosts themselves had two sons pursuing their professions
there, and, of course, in the event of trouble with England, these young men would have been
commandeered to fight for the Boer Government they served. One possibility, however, I noticed,
was never entertained--viz., that, if fighting occurred, the English community might get the
worst of it. Such a contingency was literally laughed to scorn. "The Boers were unprepared
and lazy; they took weeks to mobilize; they had given up shooting game, hence their marksmen
had deteriorated; and 200 men ought to be able to take possession of Johannesburg and Kruger
into the bargain." This was what one heard on all sides, and in view of more recent events
it is rather significant; but I remember then the thought flashed across my mind that these
possible foes were the sons of the men who had annihilated us at Majuba and Laing's Nek, and
I wondered whether another black page were going to be added to the country's history.

The next day, December 29, Kruger was reported in the papers to be listening to reason; but
this hopeful news was short-lived, for on Monday, the 30th--as usual, a fiercely hot day--we
received the astounding intelligence that Dr. Jameson, administrator of Mashonaland and Matabeleland,
had entered the Transvaal at the head of the Chartered Company's Police, 600 strong, with several
Maxim and Gardner guns. No upheaval of Nature could have created greater amazement, combined
with a good deal of admiration and some dismay, than this sensational news. The dismay, indeed,
increased as the facts were more fully examined. Nearly all the officers of the corps held
Imperial commissions, and one heard perfect strangers asking each other how these officers
could justify their action of entering a friendly territory, armed to the teeth; while the
fact of Dr. Jameson himself being at their head heightened the intense interest. I did not
know that gentleman then, but I must say he occupied in the hearts of the people at Kimberley,
and, indeed, of the whole country, quite a unique position.

It was in the diamond-fields he had worked as a young doctor, usurping gradually almost the
entire medical practice by his great skill as well as by his charm of manner. Then, as Mr.
Rhodes's nominee, he had dramatically abandoned medicine and surgery, and had gone to the great
unknown Northern Territory almost at a moment's notice. He had obtained concessions from the
black tyrant, Lobengula, when all other emissaries had failed; backwards and forwards many
times across the vast stretch of country between Bulawayo and Kimberley he had carried on negotiations
which had finally culminated, five years previously, in his leading a column of 500 hardy pioneers
to the promising country of Mashonaland, which up to that time had lain in darkness under the
cruel rule of the dusky monarch. During three strenuous years Dr. Jameson, with no military
or legal education, had laboured to establish the nucleus of a civilized government in that
remote country; and during the first part of that period the nearest point of civilization,
from whence they could derive their supplies, was Kimberley, a thousand miles away, across
a practically trackless country. Added to this difficulty, the administrator found himself
confronted with the wants and rights of the different mining communities into which the pioneers
had gradually split themselves up, and which were being daily augmented by the arrival of "wasters"
and others, who had begun to filter in as the country was written about, and its great mining
and agricultural possibilities enlarged upon. Finally, goaded thereto and justified therein
by Lobengula's continued cruelties, his raids on the defenceless Mashonas, and his threats
to the English, Dr. Jameson had led another expedition against the King himself in his stronghold
of Bulawayo. On that occasion sharp fighting ensued, but he at length brought peace, and the
dawning of a new era to a vast native population in the country, which, with Mashonaland, was
to be known as Rhodesia. In fact, up to then his luck had been almost supernatural and his
achievements simply colossal. Added to all this was his capacity for attaching people to himself,
and his absolutely fearless disposition; so it is easy to understand that Kimberley hardly
dared breathe during the next momentous days, when the fate of "the Doctor," as he was universally
called, and of his men, who were nearly all locally known, was in suspense.

