Let us have peas. I have been a zealous advocate of the birds. I have rejoiced in their multiplication.
I have endured their concerts at four o'clock in the morning without a murmur. Let them come,
I said, and eat the worms, in order that we, later, may enjoy the foliage and the fruits of
the earth. We have a cat, a magnificent animal, of the sex which votes (but not a pole-cat),--so
large and powerful that, if he were in the army, he would be called Long Tom. He is a cat of
fine disposition, the most irreproachable morals I ever saw thrown away in a cat, and a splendid
hunter. He spends his nights, not in social dissipation, but in gathering in rats, mice, flying-squirrels,
and also birds. When he first brought me a bird, I told him that it was wrong, and tried to
convince him, while he was eating it, that he was doing wrong; for he is a reasonable cat,
and understands pretty much everything except the binomial theorem and the time down the cycloidal
arc. But with no effect. The killing of birds went on, to my great regret and shame.

The other day I went to my garden to get a mess of peas. I had seen, the day before, that they
were just ready to pick. How I had lined the ground, planted, hoed, bushed them! The bushes
were very fine,--seven feet high, and of good wood. How I had delighted in the growing, the
blowing, the podding! What a touching thought it was that they had all podded for me! When
I went to pick them, I found the pods all split open, and the peas gone. The dear little birds,
who are so fond of the strawberries, had eaten them all. Perhaps there were left as many as
I planted: I did not count them. I made a rapid estimate of the cost of the seed, the interest
of the ground, the price of labor, the value of the bushes, the anxiety of weeks of watchfulness.
I looked about me on the face of Nature. The wind blew from the south so soft and treacherous!
A thrush sang in the woods so deceitfully! All Nature seemed fair. But who was to give me back
my peas? The fowls of the air have peas; but what has man?

I went into the house. I called Calvin. (That is the name of our cat, given him on account
of his gravity, morality, and uprightness. We never familiarly call him John). I petted Calvin.
I lavished upon him an enthusiastic fondness. I told him that he had no fault; that the one
action that I had called a vice was an heroic exhibition of regard for my interests. I bade
him go and do likewise continually. I now saw how much better instinct is than mere unguided
reason. Calvin knew. If he had put his opinion into English (instead of his native catalogue),
it would have been: "You need not teach your grandmother to suck eggs." It was only the round
of Nature. The worms eat a noxious something in the ground. The birds eat the worms. Calvin
eats the birds. We eat--no, we do not eat Calvin. There the chain stops. When you ascend the
scale of being, and come to an animal that is, like ourselves, inedible, you have arrived at
a result where you can rest. Let us respect the cat. He completes an edible chain.

I have little heart to discuss methods of raising peas. It occurs to me that I can have an
iron peabush, a sort of trellis, through which I could discharge electricity at frequent intervals,
and electrify the birds to death when they alight: for they stand upon my beautiful brush in
order to pick out the peas. An apparatus of this kind, with an operator, would cost, however,
about as much as the peas. A neighbor suggests that I might put up a scarecrow near the vines,
which would keep the birds away. I am doubtful about it: the birds are too much accustomed
to seeing a person in poor clothes in the garden to care much for that. Another neighbor suggests
that the birds do not open the pods; that a sort of blast, apt to come after rain, splits the
pods, and the birds then eat the peas. It may be so. There seems to be complete unity of action
between the blast and the birds. But, good neighbors, kind friends, I desire that you will
not increase, by talk, a disappointment which you cannot assuage.

SEVENTH WEEK

A garden is an awful responsibility. You never know what you may be aiding to grow in it. I
heard a sermon, not long ago, in which the preacher said that the Christian, at the moment
of his becoming one, was as perfect a Christian as he would be if he grew to be an archangel;
that is, that he would not change thereafter at all, but only develop. I do not know whether
this is good theology, or not; and I hesitate to support it by an illustration from my garden,
especially as I do not want to run the risk of propagating error, and I do not care to give
away these theological comparisons to clergymen who make me so little return in the way of
labor. But I find, in dissecting a pea-blossom, that hidden in the center of it is a perfect
miniature pea-pod, with the peas all in it,--as perfect a pea-pod as it will ever be, only
it is as tiny as a chatelaine ornament. Maize and some other things show the same precocity.
This confirmation of the theologic theory is startling, and sets me meditating upon the moral
possibilities of my garden. I may find in it yet the cosmic egg.

And, speaking of moral things, I am half determined to petition the Ecumenical Council to issue
a bull of excommunication against "pusley." Of all the forms which "error" has taken in this
world, I think that is about the worst. In the Middle Ages the monks in St. Bernard's ascetic
community at Clairvaux excommunicated a vineyard which a less rigid monk had planted near,
so that it bore nothing. In 1120 a bishop of Laon excommunicated the caterpillars in his diocese;
and, the following year, St. Bernard excommunicated the flies in the Monastery of Foigny; and
in 1510 the ecclesiastical court pronounced the dread sentence against the rats of Autun, Macon,
and Lyons. These examples are sufficient precedents. It will be well for the council, however,
not to publish the bull either just before or just after a rain; for nothing can kill this
pestilent heresy when the ground is wet.

It is the time of festivals. Polly says we ought to have one,--a strawberry-festival. She says
they are perfectly delightful: it is so nice to get people together!--this hot weather. They
create such a good feeling! I myself am very fond of festivals. I always go,--when I can consistently.
Besides the strawberries, there are ice creams and cake and lemonade, and that sort of thing:
and one always feels so well the next day after such a diet! But as social reunions, if there
are good things to eat, nothing can be pleasanter; and they are very profitable, if you have
a good object. I agreed that we ought to have a festival; but I did not know what object to
devote it to. We are not in need of an organ, nor of any pulpit-cushions. I do not know that
they use pulpit-cushions now as much as they used to, when preachers had to have something
soft to pound, so that they would not hurt their fists. I suggested pocket handkerchiefs, and
flannels for next winter. But Polly says that will not do at all. You must have some charitable
object,--something that appeals to a vast sense of something; something that it will be right
to get up lotteries and that sort of thing for. I suggest a festival for the benefit of my
garden; and this seems feasible. In order to make everything pass off pleasantly, invited guests
will bring or send their own strawberries and cream, which I shall be happy to sell to them
at a slight advance. There are a great many improvements which the garden needs; among them
a sounding-board, so that the neighbors' children can hear when I tell them to get a little
farther off from the currant-bushes. I should also like a selection from the ten commandments,
in big letters, posted up conspicuously, and a few traps, that will detain, but not maim, for
the benefit of those who cannot read. But what is most important is, that the ladies should
crochet nets to cover over the strawberries. A good-sized, well-managed festival ought to produce
nets enough to cover my entire beds; and I can think of no other method of preserving the berries
from the birds next year. I wonder how many strawberries it would need for a festival and whether
they would cost more than the nets.

I am more and more impressed, as the summer goes on, with the inequality of man's fight with
Nature; especially in a civilized state. In savagery, it does not much matter; for one does
not take a square hold, and put out his strength, but rather accommodates himself to the situation,
and takes what he can get, without raising any dust, or putting himself into everlasting opposition.
But the minute he begins to clear a spot larger than he needs to sleep in for a night, and
to try to have his own way in the least, Nature is at once up, and vigilant, and contests him
at every step with all her ingenuity and unwearied vigor. This talk of subduing Nature is pretty
much nonsense. I do not intend to surrender in the midst of the summer campaign, yet I cannot
but think how much more peaceful my relations would now be with the primal forces, if I had,
let Nature make the garden according to her own notion. (This is written with the thermometer
at ninety degrees, and the weeds starting up with a freshness and vigor, as if they had just
thought of it for the first time, and had not been cut down and dragged out every other day
since the snow went off.)

We have got down the forests, and exterminated savage beasts; but Nature is no more subdued
than before: she only changes her tactics,--uses smaller guns, so to speak. She reenforces
herself with a variety of bugs, worms, and vermin, and weeds, unknown to the savage state,
in order to make war upon the things of our planting; and calls in the fowls of the air, just
as we think the battle is won, to snatch away the booty. When one gets almost weary of the
struggle, she is as fresh as at the beginning,--just, in fact, ready for the fray. I, for my
part, begin to appreciate the value of frost and snow; for they give the husbandman a little
peace, and enable him, for a season, to contemplate his incessant foe subdued. I do not wonder
that the tropical people, where Nature never goes to sleep, give it up, and sit in lazy acquiescence.

Here I have been working all the season to make a piece of lawn. It had to be graded and sowed
and rolled; and I have been shaving it like a barber. When it was soft, everything had a tendency
to go on to it,--cows, and especially wandering hackmen. Hackmen (who are a product of civilization)
know a lawn when they see it. They rather have a fancy for it, and always try to drive so as
to cut the sharp borders of it, and leave the marks of their wheels in deep ruts of cut-up,
ruined turf. The other morning, I had just been running the mower over the lawn, and stood
regarding its smoothness, when I noticed one, two, three puffs of fresh earth in it; and, hastening
thither, I found that the mole had arrived to complete the work of the hackmen. In a half-hour
he had rooted up the ground like a pig. I found his run-ways. I waited for him with a spade.
He did not appear; but, the next time I passed by, he had ridged the ground in all directions,--a
smooth, beautiful animal, with fur like silk, if you could only catch him. He appears to enjoy
the lawn as much as the hackmen did. He does not care how smooth it is. He is constantly mining,
and ridging it up. I am not sure but he could be countermined. I have half a mind to put powder
in here and there, and blow the whole thing into the air. Some folks set traps for the mole;
but my moles never seem to go twice in the same place. I am not sure but it would bother them
to sow the lawn with interlacing snake-grass (the botanical name of which, somebody writes
me, is devil-grass: the first time I have heard that the Devil has a botanical name), which
would worry them, if it is as difficult for them to get through it as it is for me.

I do not speak of this mole in any tone of complaint. He is only a part of the untiring resources
which Nature brings against the humble gardener. I desire to write nothing against him which
I should wish to recall at the last,--nothing foreign to the spirit of that beautiful saying
of the dying boy, "He had no copy-book, which, dying, he was sorry he had blotted."

EIGHTH WEEK

My garden has been visited by a High Official Person. President Gr-nt was here just before
the Fourth, getting his mind quiet for that event by a few days of retirement, staying with
a friend at the head of our street; and I asked him if he wouldn't like to come down our way
Sunday afternoon and take a plain, simple look at my garden, eat a little lemon ice-cream and
jelly-cake, and drink a glass of native lager-beer. I thought of putting up over my gate, "Welcome
to the Nation's Gardener;" but I hate nonsense, and did n't do it. I, however, hoed diligently
on Saturday: what weeds I could n't remove I buried, so that everything would look all right.
The borders of my drive were trimmed with scissors; and everything that could offend the Eye
of the Great was hustled out of the way.

In relating this interview, it must be distinctly understood that I am not responsible for
anything that the President said; nor is he, either. He is not a great speaker; but whatever
he says has an esoteric and an exoteric meaning; and some of his remarks about my vegetables
went very deep. I said nothing to him whatever about politics, at which he seemed a good deal
surprised: he said it was the first garden he had ever been in, with a man, when the talk was
not of appointments. I told him that this was purely vegetable; after which he seemed more
at his ease, and, in fact, delighted with everything he saw. He was much interested in my strawberry-beds,
asked what varieties I had, and requested me to send him some seed. He said the patent-office
seed was as difficult to raise as an appropriation for the St. Domingo business. The playful
bean seemed also to please him; and he said he had never seen such impressive corn and potatoes
at this time of year; that it was to him an unexpected pleasure, and one of the choicest memories
that he should take away with him of his visit to New England.

N. B.--That corn and those potatoes which General Gr-nt looked at I will sell for seed, at
five dollars an ear, and one dollar a potato. Office-seekers need not apply.

Knowing the President's great desire for peas, I kept him from that part of the garden where
the vines grow. But they could not be concealed. Those who say that the President is not a
man easily moved are knaves or fools. When he saw my pea-pods, ravaged by the birds, he burst
into tears. A man of war, he knows the value of peas. I told him they were an excellent sort,
"The Champion of England." As quick as a flash he said, "Why don't you call them 'The Reverdy
Johnson'?"

It was a very clever bon-mot; but I changed the subject.

The sight of my squashes, with stalks as big as speaking-trumpets, restored the President to
his usual spirits. He said the summer squash was the most ludicrous vegetable he knew. It was
nearly all leaf and blow, with only a sickly, crook-necked fruit after a mighty fuss. It reminded
him of the member of Congress from...; but I hastened to change the subject.

As we walked along, the keen eye of the President rested upon some handsome sprays of "pusley,"
which must have grown up since Saturday night. It was most fortunate; for it led his Excellency
to speak of the Chinese problem. He said he had been struck with one, coupling of the Chinese
and the "pusley" in one of my agricultural papers; and it had a significance more far-reaching
than I had probably supposed. He had made the Chinese problem a special study. He said that
I was right in saying that "pusley" was the natural food of the Chinaman, and that where the
"pusley" was, there would the Chinaman be also. For his part, he welcomed the Chinese emigration:
we needed the Chinaman in our gardens to eat the "pusley;" and he thought the whole problem
solved by this simple consideration. To get rid of rats and "pusley," he said, was a necessity
of our civilization. He did not care so much about the shoe-business; he did not think that
the little Chinese shoes that he had seen would be of service in the army: but the garden-interest
was quite another affair. We want to make a garden of our whole country: the hoe, in the hands
of a man truly great, he was pleased to say, was mightier than the pen. He presumed that General
B-tl-r had never taken into consideration the garden-question, or he would not assume the position
he does with regard to the Chinese emigration. He would let the Chinese come, even if B-tl-r
had to leave, I thought he was going to say, but I changed the subject.

During our entire garden interview (operatically speaking, the garden-scene), the President
was not smoking. I do not know how the impression arose that he "uses tobacco in any form;"
for I have seen him several times, and he was not smoking. Indeed, I offered him a Connecticut
six; but he wittily said that he did not like a weed in a garden,--a remark which I took to
have a personal political bearing, and changed the subject.

The President was a good deal surprised at the method and fine appearance of my garden, and
to learn that I had the sole care of it. He asked me if I pursued an original course, or whether
I got my ideas from writers on the subject. I told him that I had had no time to read anything
on the subject since I began to hoe, except "Lothair," from which I got my ideas of landscape
gardening; and that I had worked the garden entirely according to my own notions, except that
I had borne in mind his injunction, "to fight it out on this line if"--The President stopped
me abruptly, and said it was unnecessary to repeat that remark: he thought he had heard it
before. Indeed, he deeply regretted that he had ever made it. Sometimes, he said, after hearing
it in speeches, and coming across it in resolutions, and reading it in newspapers, and having
it dropped jocularly by facetious politicians, who were boring him for an office, about twenty-five
times a day, say for a month, it would get to running through his head, like the "shoo-fly"
song which B-tl-r sings in the House, until it did seem as if he should go distracted. He said,
no man could stand that kind of sentence hammering on his brain for years.

The President was so much pleased with my management of the garden, that he offered me (at
least, I so understood him) the position of head gardener at the White House, to have care
of the exotics. I told him that I thanked him, but that I did not desire any foreign appointment.
I had resolved, when the administration came in, not to take an appointment; and I had kept
my resolution. As to any home office, I was poor, but honest; and, of course, it would be useless
for me to take one. The President mused a moment, and then smiled, and said he would see what
could be done for me. I did not change the subject; but nothing further was said by General Gr-nt.

The President is a great talker (contrary to the general impression); but I think he appreciated
his quiet hour in my garden. He said it carried him back to his youth farther than anything
he had seen lately. He looked forward with delight to the time when he could again have his
private garden, grow his own lettuce and tomatoes, and not have to get so much "sarce" from
Congress.

The chair in which the President sat, while declining to take a glass of lager I have had destroyed,
in order that no one may sit in it. It was the only way to save it, if I may so speak. It would
have been impossible to keep it from use by any precautions. There are people who would have
sat in it, if the seat had been set with iron spikes. Such is the adoration of Station.

NINTH WEEK

I am more and more impressed with the moral qualities of vegetables, and contemplate forming
a science which shall rank with comparative anatomy and comparative philology,--the science
of comparative vegetable morality. We live in an age of protoplasm. And, if life-matter is
essentially the same in all forms of life, I purpose to begin early, and ascertain the nature
of the plants for which I am responsible. I will not associate with any vegetable which is
disreputable, or has not some quality that can contribute to my moral growth. I do not care
to be seen much with the squashes or the dead-beets. Fortunately I can cut down any sorts I
do not like with the hoe, and, probably, commit no more sin in so doing than the Christians
did in hewing down the Jews in the Middle Ages.

This matter of vegetable rank has not been at all studied as it should be. Why do we respect
some vegetables and despise others, when all of them come to an equal honor or ignominy on
the table? The bean is a graceful, confiding, engaging vine; but you never can put beans into
poetry, nor into the highest sort of prose. There is no dignity in the bean. Corn, which, in
my garden, grows alongside the bean, and, so far as I can see, with no affectation of superiority,
is, however, the child of song. It waves in all literature. But mix it with beans, and its
high tone is gone. Succotash is vulgar. It is the bean in it. The bean is a vulgar vegetable,
without culture, or any flavor of high society among vegetables. Then there is the cool cucumber,
like so many people, good for nothing when it is ripe and the wildness has gone out of it.
How inferior in quality it is to the melon, which grows upon a similar vine, is of a like watery
consistency, but is not half so valuable! The cucumber is a sort of low comedian in a company
where the melon is a minor gentleman. I might also contrast the celery with the potato. The
associations are as opposite as the dining-room of the duchess and the cabin of the peasant.
I admire the potato, both in vine and blossom; but it is not aristocratic. I began digging
my potatoes, by the way, about the 4th of July; and I fancy I have discovered the right way
to do it. I treat the potato just as I would a cow. I do not pull them up, and shake them out,
and destroy them; but I dig carefully at the side of the hill, remove the fruit which is grown,
leaving the vine undisturbed: and my theory is, that it will go on bearing, and submitting
to my exactions, until the frost cuts it down. It is a game that one would not undertake with
a vegetable of tone.

The lettuce is to me a most interesting study. Lettuce is like conversation: it must be fresh
and crisp, so sparkling that you scarcely notice the bitter in it. Lettuce, like most talkers,
is, however, apt to run rapidly to seed. Blessed is that sort which comes to a head, and so
remains, like a few people I know; growing more solid and satisfactory and tender at the same
time, and whiter at the center, and crisp in their maturity. Lettuce, like conversation, requires
a good deal of oil to avoid friction, and keep the company smooth; a pinch of attic salt; a
dash of pepper; a quantity of mustard and vinegar, by all means, but so mixed that you will
notice no sharp contrasts; and a trifle of sugar. You can put anything, and the more things
the better, into salad, as into a conversation; but everything depends upon the skill of mixing.
I feel that I am in the best society when I am with lettuce. It is in the select circle of
vegetables. The tomato appears well on the table; but you do not want to ask its origin. It
is a most agreeable parvenu. Of course, I have said nothing about the berries. They live in
another and more ideal region; except, perhaps, the currant. Here we see, that, even among
berries, there are degrees of breeding. The currant is well enough, clear as truth, and exquisite
in color; but I ask you to notice how far it is from the exclusive hauteur of the aristocratic
strawberry, and the native refinement of the quietly elegant raspberry.

I do not know that chemistry, searching for protoplasm, is able to discover the tendency of
vegetables. It can only be found out by outward observation. I confess that I am suspicious
of the bean, for instance. There are signs in it of an unregulated life. I put up the most
attractive sort of poles for my Limas. They stand high and straight, like church-spires, in
my theological garden,--lifted up; and some of them have even budded, like Aaron's rod. No
church-steeple in a New England village was ever better fitted to draw to it the rising generation
on Sunday, than those poles to lift up my beans towards heaven. Some of them did run up the
sticks seven feet, and then straggled off into the air in a wanton manner; but more than half
of them went gallivanting off to the neighboring grape-trellis, and wound their tendrils with
the tendrils of the grape, with a disregard of the proprieties of life which is a satire upon
human nature. And the grape is morally no better. I think the ancients, who were not troubled
with the recondite mystery of protoplasm, were right in the mythic union of Bacchus and Venus.

Talk about the Darwinian theory of development, and the principle of natural selection! I should
like to see a garden let to run in accordance with it. If I had left my vegetables and weeds
to a free fight, in which the strongest specimens only should come to maturity, and the weaker
go to the wall, I can clearly see that I should have had a pretty mess of it. It would have
been a scene of passion and license and brutality. The "pusley" would have strangled the strawberry;
the upright corn, which has now ears to hear the guilty beating of the hearts of the children
who steal the raspberries, would have been dragged to the earth by the wandering bean; the
snake-grass would have left no place for the potatoes under ground; and the tomatoes would
have been swamped by the lusty weeds. With a firm hand, I have had to make my own "natural
selection." Nothing will so well bear watching as a garden, except a family of children next
door. Their power of selection beats mine. If they could read half as well as they can steal
awhile away, I should put up a notice, "Children, beware! There is Protoplasm here." But I
suppose it would have no effect. I believe they would eat protoplasm as quick as anything else,
ripe or green. I wonder if this is going to be a cholera-year. Considerable cholera is the
only thing that would let my apples and pears ripen. Of course I do not care for the fruit;
but I do not want to take the responsibility of letting so much "life-matter," full of crude
and even wicked vegetable-human tendencies, pass into the composition of the neighbors' children,
some of whom may be as immortal as snake-grass. There ought to be a public meeting about this,
and resolutions, and perhaps a clambake. At least, it ought to be put into the catechism, and
put in strong.

TENTH WEEK

