The veranda being clear of the enemy, the half-battered door was thrown open, and to my amazement
Dick Cludde came towards me with Mr. McTavish, three overseers, Uncle Moses, and Noah, all
with smoking muskets in their hands. A bare word of greeting passed between us, for Noah, seeing
Vetch helpless in my grasp, sprang forward with a shout of savage joy and but for my intervention
would have plunged his knife into the wretched man. Fending him off, I pushed Vetch into the
room, and shut the door, keeping out all but McTavish and Cludde.

Vetch was pale and discomposed, his lips twitching, his eyes ranging restlessly between Cludde
and me. I felt no pity for him.

"This man," I said to McTavish, "led his ruffians here under promise of a share in a large
sum of money they would find. Is there any truth in it?"

"There is no that much money here at this present time," replied McTavish, "but when I came
back to the estate a while ago and looked into matters, I couldna just make out where two thousand
pounds had gone. 'Twas in specie, too, for I happened to know that the coin had been sent up
from Spanish Town--a verra large sum to keep in an up-country house."

"Where is that money?" I asked, turning to Vetch.

He was more composed now, and his wonted look of alertness had returned.

"Let me understand," says Vetch. "You accuse me of--"

"Of appropriating money that did not belong to you," I said, filling up his pause.

"A serious accusation," he said, drawing his brows together. "And when did this appropriation
take place?"

"We are not playing a game," I said impatiently. "Where is the money which you stole, and which
you used as a lure for your ruffians?"

"We are not playing a game, as you say," he replied, becoming more and more collected as I
waxed hotter. "You accuse me of stealing, I answer, when did I steal, and what are your proofs?"

"You heard what Mr. McTavish said," I replied, with difficulty curbing my anger. "Two thousand
pounds are not accounted for; you were here when the money was received; it disappeared during
the time you held Mr. McTavish's place; you bring your desperadoes here to secure it. 'Tis
useless fencing with us."

"During the time I held Mr. McTavish's place," he repeated musingly. "That was for several
months last year, until the day when the owner of this property came of age--the day when Mr.
Humphrey Bold by trickery gained access to this house and threatened my life. Has it gone from
your recollection that I held Mr. McTavish's place in right of a power of attorney from the
legal guardian of the estate, and that whatever I may have done I was empowered to do? Does
it not occur to you that the money you charge me with stealing was appropriated to the payment
of the men whom I felt impelled to engage for the defense of this property against the unlawful
designs of Mr. Humphrey Bold?

"You will bear me out, Mr. Cludde, when I remind you that the owner of the estate had fled
from her lawfully-appointed guardian, aided and abetted in her flight, I doubt not, by this
upstart himself. I am ready to account for my administration of the property to Sir Richard
Cludde, and to no one else, and I say you have no right to call in question anything I may
have done in his name."

The fellow's impudence fairly took my breath away. For some moments I could do nothing but
look at him, and he returned my gaze without blinking, the old sneer playing about his lips.
The brazen coolness with which he ignored his recent attack on the house and sought to put
me in the wrong filled me with sheer amazement. I began to wonder again whether, after all,
the tale he had told to the buccaneers was a lie, and he had come back to the house with no
further design than to wreak his spite upon it.

And yet this could hardly be, for he could easily have set fire to it, and then the question
flashed upon my mind suddenly, why had he pressed home the attack on this particular room,
when all the rest of the house lay open to him? Did not that point to the probability that
the money he had spoken of was actually here, in this room?

'Twas vain to bandy more words with the fellow. I called in Joe Punchard and one of my seamen,
and bade them take him to the kitchen and tie him up. He flushed and bit his lip when I gave
this order, but he saw 'twas folly to resist. When he had gone I told the others what I had
been thinking, and suggested that we should search the room. A bureau stood against the wall;
this was the only article of furniture in which money could be secured, and Mr. McTavish, who
used it constantly, assured me that there was but a small sum in one of its drawers, which
he had himself placed there.

We looked around in perplexity. The walls were of wood, not of lath and plaster, so that there
were no nooks and crannies in which he could have bestowed his hoard. The floor also was of
single planking, forming the roof of the room below. There seemed no possible place of concealment
here. Could there be any spot on the veranda that might have served his purpose?

I went out; the veranda was empty, the men who had been injured (and some who were dead) having
been removed. If my reasoning was correct, the hiding place must be on the inner side, otherwise
the assailants could have obtained what they came to seek without attacking the room. We looked
carefully along the base of the wall where it met the floor of the veranda at first in vain.

But just as I was almost prepared to give up the search and try elsewhere I noticed that at
one spot the nails of the flooring seemed newer than at other parts. Calling to Cludde, with
his assistance I prized up one of the boards, and the secret was instantly revealed. The board
rested on one of the broad wooden pillars supporting the veranda. A hole had been cut down
the center of the pillar, and there lay the missing money--doubloons and silver dollars.

Leaving McTavish to gather them up and count them, Cludde and I went down to the kitchen. Vetch
was tied to a chair (as Joe had been tied months before), and Joe was sitting over against
him, with a cutlass on his knees. I told Vetch briefly that the money was found.

Even now his bravado did not desert him. He repeated we had no right to call in question any
action of his and that none but Sir Richard could claim an account of his stewardship. I did
not reply, as I might have done, that the money, being found in the house after Mistress Lucy
had come of age, was patently hers, and in attempting to recover it he was no better than a
common housebreaker. I bade Punchard collect our men in readiness to march back to the brig,
and strictly charged him that he should have every care of Vetch on the way.

Then I saw a shadow of fear cross the villain's face. He knew that to brazen it out longer
would avail him nothing, and 'twas his inward vision of the hangman, I doubt not, that caused
him to go white to the lips.

Cludde went from the room to gather his few possessions in preparation for our despatch. Vetch
struggled with himself for a moment, then said huskily:

"Bold, you must let me go. I will make it worth your while. Your father's will--is not destroyed;
let me go--and I will tell you where it is."

"I will make no terms with you," I said.

"But what do you gain by refusing?" he cried. "You are only a lieutenant; promotion is slow;
money would help you on. You have your revenge on me--and lose your property, for I vow I will
tell you nothing unless you let me go."

"I would not let you go for a king's ransom," I said. "The wrongs you have done me are nothing;
but for your villainy I should not be a king's officer today. I could almost forgive you. But
nothing in the world could persuade me to forget the wrongs you have done to a helpless woman--the
indignities you put upon her, the villainous designs you harbored against her. No, you have
done your rascally work--you shall take your wages."

He said no more then, but presently, when Cludde returned he made an appeal to him.

"Dick," he said, "you and I are bound by long friendship--"

"Which you have killed," said Cludde, interrupting him.

"But you will not forget all the past--our school days, the merry times we had then and after,
all I have done with you, and for you. For a dozen years we were as close as brothers; you
won't turn against me now?"

"I know, but--Lucy--'twas unpardonable," Cludde stammered in great discomfort. "I'm not spotless--done
things I am ashamed of--but you carried things too far--you wanted to force her to marry you--"

"And do you think she will marry you now, you fool?" cried Vetch, with a flash of his old fiery
temper.

"I could wish her to wed a better man," says poor Cludde.

"Even so good as Mr. Humphrey Bold," says Vetch with a sneer.

Cludde looked at me. If he intended to say anything 'twas prevented by the entrance of Joe
Punchard with news that all was ready.

"Bring him along," I said, glancing towards Vetch.

Joe unstrapped his legs, leaving his arms still bound, and they followed us from the room.

We set off on our seaward march, having just time to regain the brig before the day became
oppressive. We took with us, as prisoners, such of the buccaneers as had been caught; what
became of the rest I never knew. Vetch marched with them, amid a guard of our men.

On the way I learned from Cludde how it happened that he was at the house at a time when, but
for him, the buccaneers' attack might have been successful before I came on the scene. Being
convalescent from his wound, and learning that Mistress Lucy wished to consult Mr. McTavish
about selling the estate (for she had determined to carry through the negotiations begun by
Vetch), he had offered to carry a message to the steward, intending to remain at the house
for a few days for change of air. He had seized the opportunity also of bringing to Uncle Moses
and Noah charters of freedom from their mistress, in reward for their services to her and to
hers. Cludde insisted on her accepting from him the five hundred dollars which I had promised
Noah for his life, and she handed it back as a present for the negro.

We were talking about all these strange things that had happened, when suddenly we heard a
commotion at the head of the column. Running hastily forward, I saw Punchard and several of
my men rushing at full speed across a tract of scrubby land in pursuit of Vetch. He had persuaded
the buccaneer beside him, whose hands had not been bound, to cut his bonds.

I joined in the chase; Cludde hung back; I think that after all he would not have been ill
pleased, for old friendship's sake, if Vetch had got away. Vetch had had but a few yards' start,
but he was a swift runner, and I doubted much whether any of us could overtake him. We could
not bring him down with a shot, for my men, though their muskets were loaded, had not kindled
their matches, so that before they could fire he was out of range. Foremost of the pursuers
was Joe, bounding along like a deer, furious (as he afterwards told me) because he regarded
the escape as due to his own negligence.

We had raced on for maybe half a mile, and still had not lessened the distance between us and
the fugitive, when I suddenly saw him sink above his ankles into the earth. He uttered a terrible
shriek; the man running beside me, who knew something of the country, cried out "A cockpit!"
in accents of horror and stopped short. But the agonizing cries of the poor wretch who was
sinking inch by inch into the horrible hole whose treacherous surface had beguiled him were
more than I could endure. 'Twas not a death for the foulest villain on earth. Heedless of the
warning shouts of my crew, I dashed forward, hoping to reach Vetch in time to rescue him ere
he was sucked under.

To venture directly on the spot where he was sinking would, I knew, be certain death to me.
But when I reached the edge of the cockpit I flung myself on my face, thinking with my outstretched
arms to seize him. He turned his head and saw me. To this day I shudder as I see again the
anguish, the mute imploring entreaty, that spoke out of his ghastly features.

I could not reach him.

I crawled forward, and my hands began to sink. Joe Punchard behind was shouting to recall me.
Vetch was up to his shoulders. Half my body was on solid ground, and with a prayer on my lips
I was edging forward inch by inch to make one final effort, when I felt my feet held fast;
I was hauled back with great violence, just as Vetch, with a scream that rang in my ears and
ran through my dreams for weeks afterwards and haunts me still, disappeared forever.

Chapter 32: I Become Bold.

The flags were at half mast when we sailed into Port Royal Harbor, with the pirate brig in
our wake; and my dark foreboding was confirmed by the first news we had when we stepped ashore.
Admiral Benbow was dead. Sturdy fighter as he was, he had contended gallantly for near a month
against the fever that ensued upon the amputation of his leg, but 'twas not Heaven's will that
he should live for further service to his country. In the presence of Death, the great leveler,
all detraction is hushed, all enmities are extinguished; and even some who had thwarted and
criticized the admiral sincerely deplored his loss. He had won no great victories, done nothing
to dazzle the eyes of men; but I make bold to say that, in the long roll of England's worthies
no name will ever shine more brilliantly to a seaman's eyes than that of honest John Benbow.

Rear Admiral Whetstone, to whom the command of the West Indian squadron fell, was pleased to
compliment me on my dealings with the buccaneers, and appointed me first lieutenant of the
British frigate on which the officers under sentence of the court martial were to be conveyed
to England.

When we sailed out of Port Royal (you may be sure I had Joe Punchard with me), we acted as
convoy to a large merchant brig, richly laden with produce of the island, and with a freight
more precious to me in the person of Mistress Lucy. She had not waited for the completion of
the business connected with the sale of her estate, having perfect confidence in the integrity
of Mr. McTavish, who would remit the price to her in due course. From a mercenary point of
view the time was not well chosen for the disposal of her property, values always diminishing
in time of war. But the island was associated for her now with so many unpleasant incidents
that she was glad to sever the last tie that bound her to it and return to her happy life with
the Allardyces.

'Twas a bleak day in December when we sailed into Plymouth Sound. As soon as we had spoken
the port a boat put off hearing a paper sealed with the seal of Prince George, the Lord High
Admiral. And there fell to my captain a duty which sure no man could have performed without
compunction. I was truly thankful no such dreadful task was ever mine. The prince ordered that
the sentence of the court martial should be executed upon those two unhappy captains, Kirkby
and Wade, on the deck of the vessel, with a full muster of the crew. When they were drawn up
in lines according to rank, the whole ship's company, from the lieutenants and master's mates
down to the grommet and the boy; the captain, pale as death but in a firm voice, gave the word
of command at which, with one volley of muskets, the souls of those two cravens and traitors
were sped into eternity. Their crimes were flagrant, the sentence was most just; but I hope
and pray no Englishman will ever do the like again.

The same papers contained news of a more agreeable nature. Considering the high terms in which
Mr. Benbow had spoken of Captains Fogg and Vincent, and the recommendation he made on their
behalf, the prince was pleased to command that the sentence of suspension should be remitted,
and that they should be again employed in the Queen's service. I was sorry that I could not
be present when this good news was conveyed to them; they had remained in Jamaica, and did
not learn of the prince's clemency for several months. I never saw Captain Fogg again; but
I had the pleasure to serve with Captain Vincent seven years later, when we each commanded
a vessel in Admiral Baker's squadron that cruised about the Irish coasts in search of Duguay-Trouin.
He retired from the service soon afterwards, and lived for twenty years longer in much contentment.
'Tis sixteen years (so fast does time fly) since I was bid to his funeral.

We continued to Portsmouth, where, the ship being paid off, I hastened with Mistress Lucy,
her faithful nurse and Joe, to be in time to keep Christmas at Shrewsbury. My good friends
Squire Allardyce and his lady were in the seventh heaven of delight when I restored Mistress
Lucy once more to their arms, and overwhelmed me with their praises when they heard from her
a full recital of what they were pleased to call my heroic deeds on her behalf. In truth I
think there was little of the heroic in anything I had done, but just my plain duty, and what
any man of honor would have attempted for any woman in like circumstances.

The squire made a comical grimace when (after the ladies had disappeared) I expressed this opinion.

"Ads bobs!" he cried, "what are young fellows made of nowadays! Have you spirit for nothing
but fighting the French, Mr. Humphrey Bold? I could have sworn there would be a Mistress Bold
by this time."

I reminded him that I was as yet only a lieutenant on eighty pounds a year (though I looked
for my captain's commission when Prince George should have had time to overlook Admiral Whetstone's
report).

"But hasn't Lucy enough for you both and a large family to boot?--though to be sure she made
a precious bad bargain over that estate of hers. D'you want her to be snapped up under your
very nose? Why, young Cludde will have her yet, if he has turned out such a paragon as you
would make it appear."

But I corrected him on this point, for on our journey to the Hall Mistress Lucy told me (what
had been a secret hitherto) that Dick Cludde and Lucetta Gurney would one day make a match
of it. In the end the old gentleman pished and pshawed and called me a young fool, but I learned
from Mistress Allardyce afterwards that in the bosom of his family he laid this also to my credit.

I stayed at the Hall one night, as did Joe Punchard (who, between Susan and the cook, spent
a merry evening, and made Giles turn black with jealousy), and then set off with him to see
my older friends in Shrewsbury. Mr. Vetch and his good lady welcomed me right royally. They
were in excellent health, Mistress Vetch fine in a new magenta-colored cap, and I was right
glad to learn that the lawyer's practice had grown quite to its former prosperity, and that
he was spoken of as mayor for the next year. (This honor, however, he did not attain to, the
election falling on Mr. William Bowlder the tanner.)

I warrant you I had to tell over my adventures until my tongue was aweary, my wits being sore
put to it, moreover, to avoid the mention of Cyrus, for I was resolved that the lawyer's declining
years should not be vexed by the knowledge of his nephew's villainy and dreadful end. But Fate
was against me in this. I had strictly charged Joe Punchard to keep silence on all that pertained
to Cyrus Vetch; but having his pockets well lined, and being of a generous and social disposition,
he made a great feast on Christmas eve, to which he invited certain friends of his mother,
Nelly Hind among them, and some who had been 'prentices at the same time as himself.

And in the height of their entertainment, good ale flowing very freely, Joe, usually the most
abstemious of tars, was a little overtaken by the liquor he had drunk, and, with no other object
than to heighten my reputation, must needs tell how I had ventured into the jaws of death (so
he put it) to save the man of all others who had done me the most ill. And next day Nelly Hind
meets Mistress Vetch at the church door and pours the whole tale into her ears; and by and
by Joe comes himself with a very doleful countenance and begs Mistress Vetch not to let her
husband know, and very humbly asks my pardon, vowing not to drink more than a quart in future
even though the Queen should bid him do otherwise.

But Mistress Vetch bore an old grudge against Cyrus for the tricks he had played on me, and
the trouble he had brought on the lawyer, forgetting, good soul, that but for this same trouble
she would still have been (so far as one can tell), Becky Pennyquick and a widow. She declared
to me that she would not have the matter hidden up, quoting against me the Bible text that
says a candle is not put under a bushel, but set on a candlestick to give light to the whole
house. And so that the light might dazzle as many as possible, she invited a dozen neighbors
to dinner on Boxing Day and sprung the story on poor Mr. Vetch as he sat at the head of his
own table. ('Tis marvelous what strange ineptitudes mar the characters of excellent good folk.)

Luckily our good friend Captain Galsworthy was among the guests. He ever treated poor Becky
with a sort of good-humored tolerance, and now, perceiving the shadow that crossed the lawyer's
face, he broke in upon the dame's loquacity with a tremendous tirade against the captains who
had behaved so treacherously towards Mr. Benbow (the story of whose last fight he had already
drunk in from my lips).

"How can you wonder at it," he cried, "when you remember the covetous spirit that overspread
the kingdom before Dutch William came to rule us--when men perfectly scrambled for the revenues
of the crown, and made their private fortunes out of the nation's treasure! 'Tis a matter of
years, ay, generations, to undo all the mischief that springs from such corruption; and when
money, oftener than merit, gained admission to a command, no wonder that such scoundrels as
Wade and Kirkby were trusted with our men-of-war.

"By God, sir!--" and here he raised his clenched fist, no doubt to bang upon the table; but
being seated at the corner, very close to the wall (the party being a large one for the room),
he drove his elbow clean through a wooden panel beside the fireplace. He swung back, full of
consternation and remorse.

"And now see what you have done, with your profanity and all!" cries Mistress Vetch, her cap
sidling upon her head as she shook it with vexation. "You was always a violent man; 'tis no
thanks to you that poor Humphrey hasn't been killed over and over again, for 'twas you and
no one else as taught him to fight. And who'll pay the bill for your breakages? That's what I say!"

Mr. Vetch did his best to soothe his angry spouse; I fear he suffered a good deal at times
from her unmannerliness, though to be sure she was an excellent housewife and had a heart of
gold. And Captain Galsworthy, saying never a word in reply to her outbreak, rubbed his elbow
and said with a rueful smile:

"'Tis assault and battery, Vetch; I'm sorry: but I wonder why they call it the funny bone!"

Mistress Vetch would, I am sure, have given her views on this question had not Mr. Pinhorn,
the surgeon, who was at the other side of the corner from the captain, suddenly called out:

