The trouble occurred in this way: On the Friday following Piggy's black Monday, the King of
Boyville, decided to resort to an heroic measure. In his meditative moments Piggy had made
up speeches addressed to his Heart's Desire wherein he had proposed reconciliation at any sacrifice
save that of honor. Twice during those four days he had stood by his Heart's Desire during
recess, while they had looked out at the play-ground. But the words next to his heart had sputtered
and bubbled into nothing on his lips. He could only snap chalk at the young gentlemen in the
yard below him, in a preoccupied way, and listen to his Heart's Desire rattle on about the
whims of her fractions and the caprices of her spelling-lesson. Friday noon, Winfield Hancock
Pennington took a header into the Rubicon. In the deserted school-room, just after the other
youngsters had gone to dinner or to play, Piggy, with much wiggling of his toes, with much
hard breathing, and with many facial contortions, wrote a note. He gave it to the Pratt girl
to deliver. When the first bell was ringing that noon, Piggy was piling up the primary urchins
in wiggling, squealing piles at "crack the whip." During the fifteen minutes that followed,
he was charging up and down the yard, howling like a Comanche, at "pull-away." But run as he
would, yell as he would, and wrestle as he would, Piggy could not escape the picture that rose
in his mind of a boy wearing his features and using his body, writing the note that he had
written. When dismembered words and phrases from that note came to his mind on the play-ground,
the quaver of terror that rose in Piggy's whoop was not dissembled. Sometimes fear froze his
vitals, then a flush of self-abasement burned him with its flames. And all the time he knew
that the Pratt girl had that note. He almost hoped that an earthquake would swallow her with
it before she could deliver it. When Piggy came straggling in, hot, sweaty, and puffing, just
as the teacher was tapping the tardy-bell, a wave of peace swept over him. His Heart's Desire
was not at her desk. He knew that he had still a few moments' reprieve.

They were singing when his Heart's Desire came in. Piggy's head was tilted back to give his
voice full volume as he shouted, "All his jewels, precious jewels, His loved and His own."
His eyes were half closed in an ecstasy, and he did not turn his face toward the paint-brush
pig-tails, nor give any sign that he knew of their owner's presence. Yet when she passed his
desk, his voice did not quaver, nor his eyes blink, nor his countenance redden, as his foot
darted out for her to trip over. She tripped purposely, thereby accepting affection's tribute,
and he was glad.

To elaborate the tale of how the Pratt girl blundered with Piggy Pennington's note would be
depressing. For it holds in its barbed meshes a record of one agonizing second in which Piggy
saw the folded paper begin to slip and slide down the incline of his Heart's Desire's desk,
whereon the Pratt girl had dropped it; saw the two girls grab for it; heard it crash from the
seat to the floor with what seemed to him a deafening roar. Nor is this all that the harrowing
tale might disclose. It would be manifestly cruel and clearly unnecessary to describe the forces
which impelled the psychic wave of suggestion that inundated the school--even to the youth
of the "B" class, with his head under the desk, looking for a pencil--and gave every demon
there gleeful knowledge that the teacher had nabbed a note and would probably read it aloud.
It is enough to submit the plain, but painful, statement that, when the teacher tapped her
pencil for attention, a red ear, a throbbing red ear, flared out from either side of Piggy
Pennington's Fourth Reader, while not far away a pair of pig-tails bristled up with rage and
humiliation from a desk where a little girl's head lay buried in her arms. Then the teacher
unfolded the crackling paper and read this note:--

  FRIEND MARY.--Did you mean anything
  by letting Him sing with you. I
  dont care if you did but I never don
  anything to deserve it, but if you dident
  I am very sorry, will tell you bout it at
  the partey. Well that is all I can think
  of today, from

  Yourse Ever,

  WIN PENNINGTON.

  P.S. If you still meen what you sed
  about roses red and vilets blue all right
  and so do I.  W H P.

Piggy waded home through blood that night. The boys could not resist calling out "Friend Mary"
or "Hello, Roses Red," though each boy knew that his taunt would bring on a fight. He was little
the worse for wear when he chased the last swarm of primary urchins into his father's cow lot,
fastened them in, and went at them one by one with a shingle. A child living next door to the
Penningtons had brought the news of Piggy's disgrace to the neighborhood, and by supper-time
Mrs. Pennington knew the worst. While the son and heir of the house was bringing in his wood
and doing his chores about the barn, he felt something in the air about the kitchen which warned
him that new tortures awaited him.

A boy would rather take a dozen whippings at school than have the story of one of them come
home; and Piggy thought with inward trembling that he would rather report even a whipping at
home than face his mother in the dishonor which covered him. At supper Mrs. Pennington repeated
the legend of the note with great solemnity. When her husband showed signs of laughing, she
glared at him. Her son ate rapidly in silence. Over his mother's shoulders Piggy saw the hired
girl giggle. The only reply that Mrs. Pennington could get to her questions was, "Aw, that
ain't nothin'," or "Aw, gee whiz, ma, you must think that's somethin'." But she proclaimed,
in the presence of the father, the son, and the hired girl, that if she ever caught a boy of
hers getting "girl-struck" she would "show him," which, being translated, means much that no
dignified young gentleman likes to contemplate. But when the son was out of hearing, Mrs. Pennington
told her husband, in the repressed tone which she used when expressing her diplomatic communications,
that he would have "to take that boy in hand." Whereupon the father leaned back in his chair
and laughed, laughed until he grew red in the face, laughed till the pans in the kitchen rattled,
laughed--to use the words of his wife in closing the incident--"like a natural born simpleton."

Alas for Piggy Pennington--he might affect great pride in his amours when the hired girl teased
him; he might put on a brave face and even lure himself into the belief that this arch tormentor
saw him only as a gay deceiver; but when the lights were out, Piggy covered his head with the
bedclothes, and grew hot and cold by turns, till sleep came and bore him away from his humiliation.

All day Saturday, before the Bud Perkins' surprise party, Piggy Pennington and Mealy Jones
were inseparable. And Piggy, who was King of Boyville, came down from his throne and walked
humbly beside Mealy, the least of all his courtiers. In fact, since the reading of his note
Piggy had become needlessly deferential and considerate of the feelings of his rival.

If the two entered a crowd and played "foot and a half" or "slap and a kick" or "leap-frog,"
and if Mealy was "it"--and poor Mealy was generally "it" in any game--Piggy did not jump viciously
on Mealy's wobbly back, nor did he slap hard, nor kick hard, as he would have slapped and kicked
on other days, before he descended from his throne to dwell with the beasts of the field on
that fatal Friday. Pride kept Mealy on the rack.

Time and again his little, freckled, milky face hit the moist springy ground as Bud or Abe
or Jim bumped into him at their play. He was glad when the day ended and he could go home.
For Mealy Jones abhorred the dirt that begrimed his face and soiled his white starched collar.
He liked to play in lukewarm water, to slosh in the suds, and to rub his soft little hands
whiter and whiter in the foam. His cleanliness pleased his mother, and she boasted of it to
the mothers of other boys--mothers of boys with high-water marks just above their shirt collars;
of boys who had to be yanked back to the roller-towel after washing to have their ears rubbed;
of bad, bad, bad boys who washed their feet in the dew of the grass at night and told their
mothers that they had washed them in the tub at the pump; of wicked and sinful boys who killed
toads and cried noisily when their warts bled in the hot water; in fact, to the mothers of
nearly all the boys in Boyville. And thus it came about that Boyville having Mealy Jones set
before it as a model child, contracted a cordial hate for him, and rose against him when he
presumed to contest with Piggy for his Heart's Desire. Yet all Boyville loved a fight, and
all Boyville goaded the King to wrath, teased him, bantered him, and even pretended to doubt
his worth. Therefore, when Piggy Pennington, the King of Boyville, dressed for the party that
night in his Sunday clothes and his Sunday shoes and limped down the sidewalk to the Jones's,
where the boys and girls were to meet before descending upon Bud Perkins, there was rancor
in the royal heart and maternal hair-oil on the royal head. But a strange throb of glad pain
in the pit of the royal stomach came at the thought of the two bright eyes that would soon
meet his own. The eyes made him forget his blistering shoes, and a smile at the door divested
his mind of the serrated collar upon which his head had been pivoting for five distracted minutes.
The last thing of all to go was his pride in the hair-oil, but it fell before a voice that
said: "Well, you got here, did you?"

That was all. But it was enough to make Piggy Pennington feel the core of a music-box turning
inside him, while outside the company saw the King of Boyville transformed into a very red
and very sweaty youth holding madly to the back of his cuffs and chuckling deliriously. In
a daze he took off his hat, and put a sack of oranges, his part in the evening's refreshment,
on a table in the next room. When he regained consciousness, Piggy noticed that Mealy Jones,
who had pranced into the room with much unction, was sitting next to his Heart's Desire. The
children were making merry chatter. Piggy took his place on the end of a lounge, and turning
his back to the guilty pair, gave an "injin" pinch to Jimmy Sears, with orders to "pass it on."

Indeed, so unconcerned was Piggy in the progress of the affair behind him that he began to
shove the line of the boys on the lounge; the shoving grew into a scuffle, and the scuffle
into a wrestle, which ended on the front porch. At length Piggy stalked through the room where
the girls were sitting, saying, when he returned with his oranges and his hat: "Come on, fellers,
everybody's here."

The boys on the porch followed Piggy's example, and in a minute or two they stood huddled at
the gate calling at the girls in the house to hurry. When the girls were on the porch, the
boys struck out, and the two groups, a respectful distance apart, walked through the town.
Mealy Jones was enjoying the triumph of his life, walking proudly between the noisy boys and
giggling girls, beside--but why linger over the details of this instance of man's duplicity
and woman's worse than weakness!

The young blades of the Court of Boyville waited politely at the gate before the house where
Bud Perkins lived with Miss Morgan, his foster mother. When the maidens arrived, all the company
went trooping up Miss Morgan's steps. After Piggy had chased Bud from the front door into a
closet, from which the host fought his way gallantly into the middle of the parlor floor, the
essential preliminaries of the evening's entertainment were over. A little later the games
began. First, there was "forfeits." Then came "tin-tin." "Clap in and clap out" followed, and
finally, after much protestation from the girls, but at the earnest solicitation of Mealy Jones,
"post-office" started. Piggy did not urge, nor protest. He had gone through the games listlessly,
occasionally breaking into a spasm of gayety that was clearly hollow, and afterwards sinking
into profound indifference. For how could a well-conditioned boy be gay with a heartache under
his Sunday shirt and the spectacle before his eyes of a freckled human cock-sparrow darting
round and round the bower of his Heart's Desire? Under such circumstances it was clearly impossible
for him to see the eyes that sought his in vain across the turmoil of the room. Indeed, a voice
pitched a trifle high to carry well spoke for him to hear, but met deaf ears. A little maid
in a black-and-red check which the King of Boyville once preferred to royal purple, even made
her way across the throng--undesignedly, he thought, but Piggy basked in the joy of her presence
and made no sign to show his pleasure. A little later, in the shuffle of the game, Piggy and
his Heart's Desire were far apart. Half an hour passed, but still he did not revive. Mealy
Jones called her out in "post-office," and Piggy thought he saw her smile. That was too much.
When the dining-room door closed behind the black-and-red checked dress, the pitcher that enclosed
his woe broke and the wheel at the cistern of his endurance stopped. Mealy Jones came into
the room, and the boy who kept the "post-office" called out, "Piggy Pennington." But the slam
of the front door was his answer.

He followed the corrugated course of true love, step by step up to its climax, where, a week
before, she had given him his choice of her new pack of assorted visiting-cards. He rose at
the end of five minutes' sombre meditation, holding the curling gelatine card of his choice
in his warm hand. After venting a heavy sigh, he checked a motion to throw away the token of
his undoing and put it back into his pocket. While he was plotting dark things against the
life and happiness of Mealy Jones, Piggy heard the sound of the merriment within, and a mischievous
smile spread over his angry countenance. He tiptoed to the window, and peeped in. He saw his
Heart's Desire sitting alone. He cheered up a little, not much--but sufficiently to reach in
his pocket for his tick-tack.

Now, it may be clearly proved, if necessary, that the tick-tack was invented by the devil.
Any wise man's son knows that every boy between the ages of ten and fourteen carries with him
at all times a complete outfit of the mechanical devices on which the devil holds the patent
and demands a royalty. So there is nothing really strange in the statement that Piggy Pennington
took from his Sunday clothes, beneath a pocketful of Rewards of Merit for regular attendance
at Sunday-school--all dated before the Christmas-tree--a spool with notched wheels, a lead
pencil, and a bit of fishline. The line wound round the spool. Piggy put the pencil through
the hole in the spool, and held the notched rims of the spool against the window pane by pressing
on the pencil axle. He gave the cord a quick jerk; a rattle, a wail, and a shriek were successively
produced by the notches whirring on the glass. The company within doors screamed. Everyone
knew it was Piggy, but no one ever lived with nerves strong enough to withstand the shock of
a tick-tack. At the first shock those in-doors decided to ignore the disturbance. But it occurred
twice afterwards, and a third tick-tack at a party is a dare. So the boys took it up. As Piggy
ran he forgot his hot, heavy shoes; he felt the night wind on his face and in his hair. He
cared nothing for his pursuers; he ran for the gladness that came with running. Now he slackened
his pace and let the boys catch up with him, and again he spread the mocking distance between
them. He turned down an alley, and eluded the pack.

All the youngsters at the party, even the girls, had scampered out of the house to watch the
race. When Piggy vaulted the back-yard fence into Miss Morgan's garden, he heard the pursuers
half a block away. He saw, a hundred feet distant, a bevy of girls standing on the sidewalk.
And he saw, too, as he came skipping down the lot, something that made him fairly skim over
the earth; his Heart's Desire, standing alone, near the porch, in his path, under an apple-tree.
The exhilaration of the chase had made him forget his trouble. He was so surefooted in the
race that he forgot to be abashed for the moment and came bounding down by the apple-tree.
He was full of pride. When he stopped he was the King of Boyville and every inch a king. The
king--not Piggy--should be blamed. It was all over in a second--almost before he had stopped.
He aimed at her cheek, but he got her ear. That was the first that he knew of it. Piggy seemed
to return to life then. In his confusion he felt himself shrivelling up to his normal size--shrivelling
and frying. In an instant he was gone, and Piggy Pennington ran into the group of girls on
the sidewalk and let them catch him and hold him. The breathless youths went into the house
telling their adventures in the race between gasps. But Piggy did not dare to look at his Heart's
Desire for as much as five minutes--a long, long time. No one had seen him beneath the apple-tree.
He was not afraid of the teasing, but he was afraid of a withering look from his Heart's Desire,--a
look that he felt with a parching fear in his throat would throw the universe into an eclipse
for him. He observed that she got up and changed her seat to be rid of Mealy Jones. At first
Piggy thought that was a good sign, but a moment later he reasoned that the avoidance of Mealy
was inspired probably by a loathing for all boys. He dared not seek her eyes, but he mingled
noisily in the crowd for a while, and then, on a desperate venture, carelessly snapped a peanut
shell and hit his Heart's Desire on the chin. He seemed to be looking a thousand miles away
in another direction than that which the missile took. He waited nearly a minute--a long, uncertain
minute--for a response.

Then the shell came back; it did not hit him--but it might have done so--that was all he could
ask. He snapped shells slyly for a quarter of an hour, and was happy. Once he looked--not exactly
looked; perhaps peeked is the better word; took just the tiniest lightning peek out of the
tail of his eye, and found a smile waiting for him. At supper, if any one save Piggy had tried
to take a chair by his Heart's Desire when the plates came around, there would have been a
fight. Mealy Jones knew this, and he knew what Piggy did not know, that it would have been
a fight of two against one. So Piggy sat bolt upright in his chair beside the black-and-red
checked dress, and talked to the room at large; but he spoke no word to the maiden at his side.
She noticed that Piggy kept dropping his knife, and the solicitude of her sex prompted her
to ask: "Are your hands cold, Winfield?"

And the instinct of his sex to hide a fault with a falsehood made Piggy nod his head.

Then she answered: "Cold hands, a warm heart!"

At this important bit of repartee, the King of Boyville so forgot his royal dignity that he
let an orange-peel drive at Jimmy Sears, and pretended not to hear her. His only reply was
to joggle her arm when she reached for the cake. Piggy was so exuberant and in such high spirits
that he put his plate on his chair and made Bud Perkins walk turkey fashion three times around
the room. He forgot the disgrace which his note had brought to him in the school; he forgot
the pretensions of Mealy Jones; he did not wish to forget the episode of the apple-tree, and
for the time Piggy Pennington lived in a most peculiar world, made of hazel eyes and red-ribboned
pig-tails, all circling around on a background of black-and-red checked flannel.

After that nothing mattered very much. It didn't matter that Piggy's bruised feet began to
sting like fire. It didn't matter much if Mealy Jones's mother did come for him with a lantern
and break up the party. It didn't matter if Jimmy Sears did call out, "Hello, Roses Red," when
the boys reached the bed-room where their hats were; for a voice that Piggy knew cried back
from the adjoining room, "You think you're cute, don't you, old smarty?" Nothing in the world
could matter then, for had not Piggy Pennington five minutes before handed a card to his Heart's
Desire which read:

  If I may not C U home
     may I not sit on the fence
        and C U go by?

And had not she taken it, and said merrily, "I'm going to keep this"? What could matter after
that open avowal?

And so it came to pass in a little while that the courtly company, headed by the King of Boyville,
filed gayly down the path. They walked two by two, and they started on a long, uneven way.
But the King of Boyville was full of joy--a kind of joy so strange that wise men may not measure
it; a joy so rare that even kings are proud of it.

JAMES SEARS: A NAUGHTY PERSON

LITTLE SISTER'S LULLABY

  Zhere, zhere, 'ittul b'o', sistuh 'll wock you to s'eep
  Hush-a-bye O, darlene, wock-a-bye, b'o',
  An' tell you the stowy about the b'ack sheep--
  Wock-a-bye, my 'ittul b'over.
  A boy onct said "b'ack sheep, you dot any wool?"
  "Uh-huhm," said the lambie, "I dot free bags full."
  An' where Murry went w'y the lamb's sure to doe,
  They's mowe of zis stowy--I dess I don' know;
  But hush-a-bye O, darlene, wock-a-bye b'o',
  Wock-a-bye, my 'ittul b'over.

  O, mama says buddy tomed stwaight down from Dod;
  Hush-a-bye O, uh-huhm, wock-a-bye b'o',
  At doctuh mans bwunged him, now is n't zhat odd--
  Wock-a-bye, my 'ittul b'over.
  For papa says, "doctuhs is thiefs so zhey be."
  An' thiefs tain't det up into Heaven you see:
  I dess w'en one comes up an' dets sent below,
  He's dot to bwing wif him a baby or so;
  Hush-a-bye O, uh-huhm, wock-a-bye b'o',
  Wock-a-bye, my 'ittul b'over.

  But sistuh loves b'o' anyhow if he's dood,
  Hush-a-bye O, sweetie, wock-a-bye b'o',
  Better 'n tandy er infalid's food--
  Wock-a-bye, sistuh's own b'over.
  An' some day when buddy drows up to a man,
  W'y sistuh an' him 'ull 'ist harness ol' Fan,
  An dwive off to Heaven the fuist zhing you know,
  An' bwing ever' baby back what wants to doe.
  Zhen hush-a-bye O, sweetie, wock-a-bye b'o',
  Wock-a-bye, sistuh's own b'over.

James Sears: A Naughty Person

A naughty person ... walketh with a forward mouth.

He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers;... he deviseth
mischief continually;...

Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy.--Proverbs,
vi. 12-15.

It was morning--the cool of the morning. The pigeons were gossiping under the barn eaves. In
the apple-tree a robin's song thrilled at intervals, and the jays were chattering incessantly
in the cherry-trees by the fence. The dew was still on the grass that lay in the parallelogram
of shade made by the Sears' dwelling, and in the twilight of grass-land all the elf-people
were whispering and tittering and scampering about in surreptitious revel. The breeze of dawn,
tired and worn out, was sinking to a fitful doze in the cottonwood foliage near by. In the
lattice of the kitchen porch two butterflies were chasing the sun flecks in and out among the
branches of the climbing rose. Even the humble burdock weeds and sunflowers lining the path
that led to the gate seemed to be exalted by the breath of the morning air, and not out of
harmony with the fine, high chord of ecstasy that was stirring the soul of things. And yet
in that hour, James Sears, with a green-checked gingham apron tied about his neck, stood near
a rain-barrel, bobbing up and down on a churn-handle. His back ached, and his heart was full
of bitterness at the scheme of creation. For it was Saturday morning--his by every law, precedent,
or tradition known or reported in the Court of Boyville. But instead of inhaling the joys of
the new day, James, whose Courtly name was "Jimmie," looked for yellow granules on the dasher,
and promised God if He would let him grow up that his little boy should never have to churn.

Any boy knows that it is a degrading thing to churn, and he further knows that to wear a green-checked
gingham apron is odious beyond description; however, if the disgusting thing is tied under
a boy's arms, from whence it may be slipped down over the hips and the knees to the ground,
by a certain familiar twist of the body, the case is not absolutely hopeless. But Jimmy Sears's
apron strings were tied about his neck; so his despair was black and abysmal. Once in a while
Jimmy's bosom became too heavily freighted, and he paused to sigh. He cheered himself up on
these occasions by slyly licking the churn-dasher; but the good cheer on the dasher was a stimulant
that left him more miserable than it found him. Ever and anon from some remote chamber in the
house behind him came the faint, gasping cry of a day-old baby. That cry drowned the cooing
of the doves, the song of the robin, and the chirping of the dwellers in the grass; to Jimmy
the bleat of the little human lamb sounded like the roar of a lion. He could endure penal servitude
on his Saturday, with a patience born of something approaching a philosophy; he could wear
a checked gingham apron, even as a saint wears an unbecoming halo; but the arrival of the new
baby--the fifth addition to the family in the short period of years covered by Jimmy Sears's
memory--brought a bitter pill of wrath and dropped it in the youth's brimful cup of woe. As
the minutes dragged wearily along, Jimmy Sears reviewed the story of his thraldom. He thought
of how, in his short-dress days, he had been put to rocking a cradle; how in his kilted days,
there had been ever a baby's calico dress to consider; how, from his earliest fishing-days,
there had been always a tot tagging after him, throwing sticks and stones in the water to scare
the fish; and how, now in his swimming and cave-dwelling days, there was a swarm of tow-headed
Searses, a crawler, a creeper, a toddler, a stumbler, and a sneaker to run away from.

