The day the remains of the marshal were removed from the Invalides to the Pantheon, I was sent
from Saint-Cloud to Paris with a special message for the Emperor.  After this duty was attended
to, I still had a short time of leisure, of which I availed myself to witness the sad ceremony
and bid a last adieu to the brave warrior whose death I had witnessed.  At noon all the civil
and military authorities assembled at the Invalides; and the body was transferred from the
dome into the church, and placed on a catafalque in the shape of a great Egyptian pyramid,
raised on an elevated platform, and approached through four large arches, the posts of which
were entwined with garlands of laurels interlaced with cypress. At the corners were statues
in the attitude of grief, representing Force, Justice, Prudence, and Temperance, virtues characteristic
of the hero. This pyramid ended in a funeral urn surmounted by a crown of fire.  On the front
of the pyramid were placed the arms of the duke, and medallions commemorating the most remarkable
events of his life borne by genii. Under the obelisk was placed the sarcophagus containing
the remains of the marshal, at the corners of which were trophies composed of banners taken
from his enemies, and innumerable silver candelabra were placed on the steps by which the platform
was reached.  The oaken altar, in the position it occupied before the Revolution, was double,
and had a double tabernacle, on the doors of which were the commandments, the whole surmounted
by a large cross, from the intersection of which was suspended a shroud.  At the corners of
the altar were the statues of St. Louis and St. Napoleon.  Four large candelabra were placed
on pedestals at the corners of the steps, and the pavement of the choir and that of the nave
were covered with a black carpet.  The pulpit, also draped in black and decorated with the
Imperial eagle, and from which was pronounced the funeral oration over the marshal, was situated
on the left in front of the bier; on the right was a seat of ebony decorated with Imperial
arms, bees, stars, lace, fringes, and other ornaments in silver, which was intended for the
prince arch-chancellor of the Empire, who presided at the ceremony.  Steps were erected in
the arches of the aisles, and corresponded to the tribunes which were above; and in front of
these steps were seats and benches for the civil and military authorities, the cardinals, archbishops,
bishops, etc.  The arms, decorations, baton, and laurel crown of the marshal were placed on
the bier.

All the nave and the bottom of the aisles were covered with black with a white bordering, as
were the windows also, and the draperies displayed the marshal's arms, baton, and cipher.

The organ was entirely concealed by voluminous hangings which in no wise lessened the effect
of its mournful tones.  Eighteen sepulchral silver lamps were suspended by chains from lances,
bearing on their points flags taken from the enemy.  On the pilasters of the nave were fastened
trophies of arms, composed of banners captured in the numerous engagements which had made the
marshal's life illustrious.  The railing of the altar on the side of the esplanade was draped
in black, and above this were the arms of the duke borne by two figures of Fame holding palms
of victory; above was written: "Napoleon to the Memory of the Duke of Montebello, who died
gloriously on the field of Essling, 22d. May, 1809."

The conservatory of music executed a mass composed of selections from the best of Mozart's
sacred pieces.  After the ceremony the body was carried as far as the door of the church and
placed on the funeral car, which was ornamented with laurel and four groups of the banners
captured from the enemy by his army-corps in the numerous battles in which the marshal had
taken part, and was preceded by a military and religious procession, followed by one of mourning
and honor.  The military cortege was composed of detachments from all branches of the army,
cavalry, and light infantry, and the line, and artillery both horse and foot; followed by cannon,
caissons, sappers, and miners, all preceded by drums, trumpets, bands, etc.; and the general
staff, with the marshal, Prince of Wagram, at its head, formed of all the general officers,
with the staff of the division and of the place.

The religious procession was composed of children and old men from the hospitals, clergy from
all the parishes and from the metropolitan church of Paris, bearing crosses and banners, with
singers and sacred music, and his Majesty's chaplain with his assistants.  The car on which
was placed the marshal's body followed immediately after.  The marshals, Duke of Conegliano,
Count Serrurier, Duke of Istria, and Prince of Eckmuhl, bore the corners of the pall.  On each
side of the car two of the marshal's aides-de-camp bore a standard, and on the bier were fastened
the baton of the marshal and the decorations of the Duke of Montebello.

After the car came the cortege of mourning and of honor; the marshal's empty carriage, with
two of his aides-de-camp on horseback at the door, four mourning carriages for the marshal's
family, the carriages of the princes, grand dignitaries, marshals, ministers, colonel-generals,
and chief inspectors.  Then came a detachment of cavalry preceded by trumpets, and bands on
horseback followed the carriages and ended the procession.  Music accompanied the chants, all
the bells of the churches tolled, and thirteen cannon thundered at intervals.

On arriving at the subterranean entrance of the church of Saint- Genevieve, the body was removed
from the car by grenadiers who had been decorated and wounded in the same battles as the marshal.
His Majesty's chaplain delivered the body to the arch-priest.  The Prince of Eckmuhl addressed
to the new Duke of Montebello the condolences of the army, and the prince arch-chancellor deposited
on the bier the medal destined to perpetuate the memory of these funeral honors of the warrior
to whom they were paid, and of the services which so well merited them.  Then all the crowd
passed away, and there remained in the church only a few old servants of the marshal, who honored
his memory as much and even more by the tears which they shed in silence than did all this
public mourning and imposing ceremony.  They recognized me, for we had been together on the
campaign.  I remained some time with them, and we left the Pantheon together.

During my short excursion to Paris, their Majesties had left Saint-Cloud for Rambouillet, so
I set out to rejoin them with the equipages of the marshal, Prince de Neuchatel, who had left
court temporarily to be present at the obsequies of the brave Duke of Montebello.

It was, if I am not mistaken, on arriving at Rambouillet that I learned the particulars of
a duel which had taken place that day between two gentlemen, pages of his Majesty.  I do not
recall the subject of the quarrel; but, though very trivial in its origin, it became very serious
from the course of conduct to which it led.  It was a dispute between schoolboys; but these
school-boys wore swords, and regarded each other, not without reason, as more than three-fourths
soldiers, so they had decided to fight.  But for this fight, two things were necessary,--time
and secrecy; as to their time, it was employed from four or five in the morning till nine in
the evening, almost constantly, and secrecy was not maintained.

M. d'Assigny, a man of rare merit and fine character, was then sub- governor of the pages,
by whom his faithfulness, kindness, and justice had caused him to be much beloved.  Wishing
to prevent a calamity, he called before him the two adversaries; but these young men, destined
for army service, would hear of no other reparation than the duel. M. d'Assigny had too much
tact to attempt to argue with them, knowing that he would not have been obeyed; but he offered
himself as second, was accepted by the young men, and being given the selection of arms, chose
the pistol, and appointed as the time of meeting an early hour next morning, and everything
was conducted in the order usual to such affairs. One of the pages shot first, and missed his
adversary; the other discharged his weapon in the air, upon which they immediately rushed into
each other's arms, and M. d'Assigny took this opportunity of giving them a truly paternal lecture.
Moreover, the worthy sub-governor not only kept their secret, but he kept his own also; for
the pistols loaded by M. d'Assigny contained only cork balls; a fact of which the young men
are still ignorant.

Some persons saw the 25th of August, which was the fete day of the Empress, arrive with feelings
of curiosity.  They thought that from a fear of exciting the memories of the royalists, the
Emperor would postpone this solemnity to another period of the year, which he could easily
have done by feting his august spouse under the name of Marie. But the Emperor was not deterred
by such fears, and it is also very probable that he was the only one in the chateau to whom
no such idea occurred.  Secure in his power, and the hopes that the French nation then built
upon him, he knew well that he had nothing to dread from exiled princes, or from a party which
appeared dead without the least chance of resurrection.  I have heard it asserted since, and
very seriously too, that his Majesty was wrong to fete Saint Louis, which had brought him misfortune,
etc.; but these prognostications, made afterwards, did not then occupy the thoughts of any
one, and Saint Louis was celebrated in honor of the Empress Marie Louise with almost unparalleled
pomp and brilliancy.

A few days after these rejoicings, their Majesties held in the Bois de Boulogne a review of
the regiments of the Imperial Guard of Holland, which the Emperor had recently ordered to Paris.
In honor of their arrival his Majesty had placed here and there in the walks of the Bois casks
of wine with the heads knocked in, so that each soldier could drink at will; but this imperial
munificence had serious results which might have become fatal.  The Holland soldiery more accustomed
to strong beer than to wine, nevertheless found the latter much to their taste, and imbibed
it in such great quantities, that in consequence their heads were turned to an alarming extent.
They began at first with some encounters, either among themselves or with the curious crowd
who observed them too closely.  Just then a storm arose suddenly, and the promenaders of Saint-
Cloud and its environs hastened to return to Paris, passing hurriedly through the Bois de Boulogne;
and these Hollanders, now in an almost complete state of intoxication, began fighting with
each other in the woods, stopping all the women who passed, and threatening very, rudely the
men by whom, most of them were accompanied.  In a flash the Bois resounded with cries of terror,
shouts, oaths, and innumerable combats. Some frightened persons ran as far as Saint-Cloud,
where the Emperor then was; and he was no sooner informed of this commotion, than he ordered
squad after squad of police to march on the Hollanders and bring them to reason.  His Majesty
was very angry, and said, "Has any one ever seen anything equal to these big heads?  See them
turned topsy-turvy by two glasses of wine!" but in spite of this jesting, the Emperor was not
without some anxiety and placed himself at the grating of the park, opposite the bridge, and
in person gave directions to the officers and soldiers sent to restore order.  Unfortunately
the darkness was too far advanced for the soldiers to see in what direction to march; and there
is no knowing how it would have ended if an officer of one of the patrol guards had not conceived
the happy idea of calling out, "The Emperor! there is the Emperor!"  And the sentinels repeated
after him, "There is the Emperor," while charging the most mutinous Hollanders.  And such was
the terror inspired in these soldiers by the simple name of his Majesty, that thousands of
armed men, drunken and furious, dispersed before this name alone, and regained their quarters
as quickly and secretly as they could.  A few were arrested and severely punished.

I have already said that the Emperor often superintended the toilet of the Empress, and even
that of her ladies.  In fact, he liked all the persons surrounding him to be well and even
richly dressed.

But about this time he gave an order the wisdom of which I much admired. Having often to hold
at the baptismal font the children of his grand officers, and foreseeing that the parents would
not fail to dress their new-born babes in magnificent toilets, the Emperor ordered that children
presented for baptism should wear only a simple long linen robe. This prudent measure spared
at the same time the purse and the vanity of the parents.  I remarked during this ceremony
that the Emperor had some trouble in paying the necessary attention to the questions of the
officiating priest.  The Emperor was usually very absentminded during the services at church,
which were not long, as they never lasted more than ten or fifteen minutes; and yet I have
been told that his Majesty asked if it were not possible to perform them in less time.--He
bit his nails, took snuff oftener than usual, and looked about him constantly, while a prince
of the church uselessly took the trouble to turn the leaves of his Majesty's book, in order
to follow the service.

CHAPTER XXIX.

The pregnancy of Marie Louise had been free from accident, and promised a happy deliverance,
which was awaited by the Emperor with an impatience in which France had joined for a long while.
It was a curious thing to observe the state of the public mind, while the people formed all
sorts of conjectures, and made unanimous and ardent prayers that the child should be a son,
who might receive the vast inheritance of Imperial glory.  The 19th of March, at seven o'clock
in the evening, the Empress was taken ill; and from that moment the whole palace was in commotion.
The Emperor was informed, and sent immediately for M. Dubois, who had been staying constantly
at the chateau for some time past, and whose attentions were so valued at such a time.

All the private household of the Empress, as well as Madame de Montesquieu, were gathered in
the apartment, the Emperor, his mother, sisters, Messieurs Corvisart, Bourdier, and Yvan in
an adjoining room.

The Emperor came in frequently, and encouraged his young wife.  In the interior of the palace,
the attention was eager, impassioned, clamorous; and each vied with the other as to who should
first have the news of the birth of the child.  At five o'clock in the morning, as the situation
of the Empress continued the same, the Emperor ordered every one to retire, and himself withdrew
in order to take his bath; for the anxiety he had undergone made a moment of repose very necessary
to him in his great agitation.  After fifteen minutes spent in the bath he was hastily summoned,
as the condition of the Empress had become both critical and dangerous.  Hastily throwing on
his dressing-gown, he returned to the apartment of the Empress, and tenderly encouraged her,
holding her hand. The physician, M. Dubois, informed him that it was improbable both mother
and child could be saved; whereupon he cried, "Come, M. Dubois, keep your wits about you! 
Save the mother, think only of the mother, I order you."

As the intense suffering continued, it became necessary to use instruments; and Marie Louise,
perceiving this, exclaimed with bitterness, "Is it necessary to sacrifice me because I am an
Empress?" The Emperor overcome by his emotions had retired to the dressing-room, pale as death,
and almost beside himself.  At last the child came into the world; and the Emperor immediately
rushed into the apartment, embracing the Empress with extreme tenderness, without glancing
at the child, which was thought to be dead; and in fact, it was seven minutes before he gave
any signs of life, though a few drops of brandy were blown into his mouth and many efforts
made to revive him.  At last he uttered a cry.

The Emperor rushed from the Empress's arms to embrace this child, whose birth was for him the
last and highest favor of fortune, and seemed almost beside himself with joy, rushing from
the son to the mother, from the mother to the son, as if he could not sufficiently feast his
eyes on either.  When he entered his room to make his toilet, his face beamed with joy; and,
seeing me, he exclaimed, "Well, Constant, we have a big boy!  He is well made to pinch ears
for example;" announcing it thus to every one he met.  It was in these effusions of domestic
bliss that I could appreciate how deeply this great soul, which was thought impressible only
to glory, felt the joys of family life.

From the moment the great bell of Notre Dame and the bells of the different churches of Paris
sounded in the middle of the night, until the hour when the cannon announced the happy delivery
of the Empress, an extreme agitation was felt throughout Paris.  At break of day the crowd
rushed towards the Tuileries, and filled the streets and quays, all awaiting in anxious suspense
the first discharge of the cannon.  But this curious sight was not only seen in the Tuileries
and neighboring districts, but at half-past nine in streets far removed from the chateau, and
in all parts of Paris, people could be seen stopping to count with emotion the discharges of
the cannon.

The twenty-second discharge which announced the birth of a boy was hailed with general acclamations.
To the silence of expectation, which had arrested as if by enchantment the steps of all persons
scattered over all parts of the city, succeeded a burst of enthusiasm almost indescribable.
In this twenty-second [It had been announced in the papers that if it, was a girl a salute
of twenty-one guns would be fired; if a boy, one hundred guns.] boom of the cannon was a whole
dynasty, a whole future, and simultaneously hats went up in the air; people ran over each other,
and embraced those to whom they were strangers amid shouts of "Vive l'Empereur!"  Old soldiers
shed tears of joy, thinking that they had contributed by their labors and their fatigues to
prepare the heritage of the King of Rome, and that their laurels would wave over the cradle
of a dynasty.

Napoleon, concealed behind a curtain at one of the windows of the Empress's room, enjoyed the
sight of the popular joy, and seemed deeply touched.  Great tears rolled from his eyes, and
overcome by emotion he came again to embrace his son.  Never had glory made him shed a tear;
but the happiness of being a father had softened this heart on which the most brilliant victories
and the most sincere testimonials of public admiration seemed hardly to make an impression.
And in truth Napoleon had a right to believe in his good fortune, which had reached its height
on the day when an archduchess of Austria made him the father of a king, who had begun as a
cadet in a Corsican family.  At the end of a few hours the event which was awaited with equal
impatience by France and Europe had become the personal joy of every household.

At half-past ten Madame Blanchard set out from L'Ecole Militaire in a balloon for the purpose
of carrying into all the towns and villages through which she passed, the news of the birth
of the King of Rome.

The telegraph carried the happy news in every direction; and at two o'clock in the afternoon
replies had already been received from Lyons, Lille, Brussels, Antwerp, Brest, and many other
large towns of the Empire, which replies, as may well be imagined were in perfect accord with
the sentiments entertained at the capital.

In order to respond to the eagerness of the crowd which pressed continually around the doors
of the palace to learn of the welfare of the Empress and her august child, it was decided that
one of the chamberlains should stand from morning till evening in the first saloon of the state
apartments, to receive those who came, and inform them of the bulletins which her Majesty's
physicians issued twice a day.  At the end of a few hours, special couriers were sent on all
roads leading to foreign courts, bearing the news of the delivery of the Empress; the Emperor's
pages being charged with this mission to the Senate of Italy, and the municipal bodies of Milan
and Rome.  Orders were given in the fortified towns and ports that the same salutes should
be fired as at Paris, and that the fleets should be decorated.  A beautiful evening favored
the special rejoicings at the capital where the houses were voluntarily illuminated. Those
who seek to ascertain by external appearances the real feelings of a people amid events of
this kind, remarked that the topmost stories of houses in the faubourgs were as well lighted
as the most magnificent hotels and finest houses of the capital.  Public buildings, which under
other circumstances are remarkable from the darkness of the surrounding houses, were scarcely
seen amid this profusion of lights with which public gratitude had lighted every window.  The
boatmen gave an impromptu fete which lasted part of the night, and to witness which an immense
crowd covered the shore, testifying the most ardent joy.  This people, who for thirty years
had passed through so many different emotions, and who had celebrated so many victories, showed
as much enthusiasm as if it had been their first fete, or a happy change in their destiny.
Verses were sung or recited at all the theaters; and there was no poetic formula, from the
ode to the fable, which was not made use of to celebrate the event of the 20th of March, 1811.
I learned from a well- informed person that the sum of one hundred thousand francs from the
private funds of the Emperor was distributed by M. Dequevauvilliers, secretary of the treasury
of the chamber, among the authors of the poetry sent to the Tuileries; and finally, fashion,
which makes use of the least events, invented stuffs called roi-de-Rome, as in the old regime
they had been called dauphin.  On the evening of the 20th of March at nine o'clock the King
of Rome was anointed in the chapel of the Tuileries.  This was a most magnificent ceremony.
The Emperor Napoleon, surrounded by the princes and princesses of his whole court, placed him
in the center of the chapel on a sofa surmounted by a canopy with a Prie-Dieu.  Between the
altar and the balustrade had been placed on a carpet of white velvet a pedestal of granite
surmounted by a hand some silver gilt vase to be used as a baptismal font.  The Emperor was
grave; but paternal tenderness diffused over his face an expression of happiness, and it might
have been said that he felt himself half relieved of the burdens of the Empire on seeing the
august child who seemed destined to receive it one day from the hands of his father.  When
he approached the baptismal font to present the child to be anointed there was a moment of
silence and religious contemplation, which formed a touching contrast to the vociferous gayety
which at the same moment animated the crowd outside, whom the spectacle of the brilliant fireworks
had drawn from all parts of Paris to the Tuileries.

Madame Blanchard, who as I have said had set out in her balloon an hour after the birth of
the King of Rome, to carry the news into all places she passed, first descended at Saint-Tiebault
near Lagny, and from there, as the wind had subsided, returned to Paris.  Her balloon rose
after her departure, and fell at a place six leagues farther on, and the inhabitants, finding
in this balloon only clothing and provisions, did not doubt that the intrepid aeronaut had
been killed; but fortunately just as her death was announced at Paris, Madame Blanchard herself
arrived and dispelled all anxiety.

Many persons had doubted Marie Louise's pregnancy.  Some believed it assumed, and I never could
comprehend the foolish reasons given by these persons on this subject which malevolence tried
to 'gular' fact which carries its great number of these evil-thinking, suspicious persons,
one part accused the Emperor of being a libertine, supposing him the father of many natural
children, and the other thought him incapable of obtaining children even by a young princess
only nineteen years of age, their hatred thus blinding their judgment.  If Napoleon had natural
children, why could he not have legitimate ones, especially with a young wife who was known
to be in most flourishing health.  Besides, it was not the first, as it was not the last, shaft
of malice aimed at Napoleon; for his position was too high, his glory too brilliant, not to
inspire exaggerated sentiments whether of joy or hatred.

There were also some ill-wishers who took pleasure in saying that Napoleon was incapable of
tender sentiments, and that the happiness of being a father could not penetrate this heart
so filled with ambition as to exclude all else.  I can cite, among many others in my knowledge,
a little anecdote which touched me exceedingly, and which I take much pleasure in relating,
since, while it triumphantly answers the calumnies of which I have spoken, it also proves the
special consideration with which his Majesty honored me, and consequently, both as a father
and a faithful servant, I experience a mild satisfaction in placing it in these Memoirs.  Napoleon
was very fond of children; and having one day asked me to bring mine to him, I went to seek
him.  Meanwhile Talleyrand was announced to the Emperor; and as the interview lasted a long
time, my child grew weary of waiting, and I carried him back to his mother.  A short time after
he was taken with croup, which cruel disease, concerning which his Majesty had made a special
appeal to the faculty of Paris, [on the occasion of the death from croup in 1807 of his heir
presumptive, the young son of the King of Holland]. It snatched many children from their families.
Mine died at Paris.  We were then at the chateau of Compiegne, and I received the sad news
just as I was preparing to go to the toilet. I was too much overcome by my loss to perform
my duties; and when the Emperor asked what prevented my coming, and was told that I had just
heard of the death of my son, said kindly, "Poor Constant!  what a terrible sorrow!  We fathers
alone can know what it is!"

