But the Christian Examiner still remained to him, and that he used with diligence. From week
to week there appeared in it articles attacking the lion, stating that the lion was still being
watched, that his prey would be snatched from him at last, that the lamb should even yet have
her rights, and the like. And as the thing went on, the periodical itself and the writer of
the article became courageous by habit, till things were printed which Sir John Ball found
it almost impossible to bear. It was declared that he was going to desert the lamb, now that
he had taken all the lamb's property; and that the Iamb, shorn of all her fleece, was to be
condemned to earn her bread as a common nurse in the wards of a common hospital,--all which
information came readily enough to Mr Maguire by the hands of Miss Colza. The papers containing
these articles were always sent to Sir John Ball and to Miss Mackenzie, and the articles were
always headed, "The Lion and the Lamb." Miss Mackenzie, in accordance with an arrangement made
to that purpose, sent the papers as soon as they came to Mr Slow, but Sir John Ball had no
such ready way of freeing himself from their burden. He groaned and toiled under them, going
to his lawyer with them, and imploring permission to bring an action for libel against Mr Maguire.
The venom of the unclean animal's sting had gone so deep into him, that, fond as he was of
money, he had told his lawyer that he would not begrudge the expense if he could only punish
the man who was hurting him. But the attorney, who understood something of feeling as well
as something of money, begged him to be quiet at any rate till the fate of the property should
be settled. "And if you'll take my advice, Sir John, you will not notice him at all. You may
be sure that he has not a shilling in the world, and that he wants you to prosecute him. When
you have got damages against him, he will be off out of the country."

"But I shall have stopped his impudent ribaldry," said Sir John Ball. Then the lawyer tried
to explain to him that no one read the ribaldry. It was of no use. Sir John read it himself,
and that was enough to make him wretched.

The little fable which made Sir John so unhappy had not, for some months past, appeared in
any of the metropolitan newspapers; but when the legal inquiry into the proper disposition
of Mr Jonathan Ball's property was over, and when it was known that, as the result of that
inquiry, the will in favour of the Mackenzies was to be set aside and the remains of the property
handed over to Sir John, then that very influential newspaper, which in the early days of the
question had told the story of the Lion and the Lamb, told it all again, tearing, indeed, the
Littlebath Christian Examiner into shreds for its iniquity, but speaking of the romantic misfortune
of the lamb in terms which made Sir John Ball very unhappy. The fame which accrued to him from
being so publicly pointed out as a lion, was not fame of which he was proud. And when the writer
in this very influential newspaper went on to say that the world was now looking for a termination
of this wonderful story, which would make it pleasant to all parties, he was nearly beside
himself in his misery. He, a man of fifty, of slow habits, with none of the buoyancy of youth
left in him, apt to regard himself as older than his age, who had lived with his father and
mother almost on an equality in regard to habits of life, the father of a large family, of
which the eldest was now himself a man! Could it be endured that such a one as he should enter
upon matrimony amidst the din of public trumpets and under a halo of romance? The idea of it
was frightful to him. On the very day on which the result of the legal investigation was officially
communicated to him, he sat in the old study at the Cedars with two newspapers before him.
In one of these there was a description of his love, which he knew was intended as furtive
ridicule, and an assurance to the public that the lamb's misfortunes would all be remedied
by the sweet music of the marriage bell. What right had any one to assert publicly that he
intended to marry any one? In his wretchedness and anger he would have indicted this newspaper
also for a libel, had not his lawyer assured him that, according to law, there was no libel
in stating that a man was going to be married. The other paper accused him of rapacity and
dishonesty in that he would not marry the lamb, now that he had secured the lamb's fleece;
so that, in truth, he had no escape on either side; for Mr Maguire, having at last ascertained
that the lamb had, in very truth, lost all her fleece, was no longer desirous of any personal
connection, and felt that he could best carry out his pledge by attacking the possessor of
the fleece on that side. Under such circumstances, what was such a man as Sir John Ball to
do? Could he marry his cousin amidst the trumpets, and the halo, and the doggrel poetry which
would abound? Was it right that he should be made a mark for the finger of scorn? Had he done
anything to deserve this punishment?

And it must be remembered that from day to day his own mother, who lived with him, who sat
with him late every night talking on this one subject, was always instigating him to abandon
his cousin. It had been admitted between them that he was no longer bound by his offer. Margaret
herself had admitted it,--"does not attempt to deny it," as Lady Ball repeated over and over
again. When he had made his offer he had known nothing of Mr Maguire's offer, nor had Margaret
then told him of it. Such reticence on her part of course released him from his bond. So Lady
Ball argued, and against this argument her son made no demur. Indeed it was hardly possible
that he should comprehend exactly what had taken place between his cousin and Mr Maguire. His
mother did not scruple to assure him that she must undoubtedly at one time have accepted the
man's proposal. In answer to this John Ball would always assert his entire reliance on his
cousin's word.

"She did it without knowing that she did so," Lady Ball would answer; "but in some language
she must have assented."

But the mother was never able to extract from the son any intimation of his intention to give
up the marriage, though she used threats and tears, ridicule and argument,--appeals to his
pride and appeals to his pocket. He never said that he certainly would marry her; he never
said so at least after that night on which Margaret in her bedroom had told him her story with
reference to Mr Maguire; but neither did he ever say that he certainly would not marry her.
Lady Ball gathered from all his words a conviction that he would be glad to be released, if
he could be released by any act on Margaret's behalf, and therefore she had made her attempt
on Margaret. With what success the reader will, I hope, remember. Margaret, when she accepted
her cousin's offer, had been specially bidden by him to be firm. This bidding she obeyed, and
on that side there was no hope at all for Lady Ball.

I fear there was much of cowardice on Sir John's part. He had, in truth, forgiven Margaret
any offence that she had committed in reference to Mr Maguire. She had accepted his offer while
another offer was still dragging on an existence after a sort, and she had not herself been
the first to tell him of these circumstances. There had been offence to him in this, but that
offence he had, in truth, forgiven. Had there been no Littlebath Christian Examiner, no tale
of the Lion and the Lamb, no publicity and no ridicule, he would quietly have walked off with
his cousin to some church, having gone through all preliminary ceremonies in the most silent
manner possible for them, and would have quietly got himself married and have carried Margaret
home with him. Now that his father was dead and that his uncle Jonathan's money had come to
him, his pecuniary cares were comparatively light, and he believed that he could be very happy
with Margaret and his children. But then to be pointed at daily as a lion, and to be asked
by all his acquaintances after the lamb! It must be owned that he was a coward; but are not
most men cowards in such matters as that?

But now the trial was over, the money was his own, Margaret was left without a shilling in
the world, and it was quite necessary that he should make up his mind. He had once told his
lawyer, in his premature joy, on that very day on which Mr Maguire had come to the Cedars,
that everything was to be made smooth by a marriage between himself and the disinherited heiress.
He had since told the lawyer that something had occurred which might, perhaps, alter this arrangement.
After that the lawyer had asked no question about the marriage; but when he communicated to
his client the final intelligence that Jonathan Ball's money was at his client's disposal,
he said that it would be well to arrange what should be done on Miss Mackenzie's behalf. Sir
John Ball had assumed very plainly a look of vexation when the question was put to him.

"I promised Mr Slow that I would ask you," said the lawyer. "Mr Slow is of course anxious for
his client."

"It is my business and not Mr Slow's," said Sir John Ball, "and you may tell him that I say so."

Then there had been a moment's silence, and Sir John had felt himself to be wrong.

"Pray tell him also," said Sir John, "that I am very grateful to him for his solicitude about
my cousin, and that I fully appreciate his admirable conduct both to her and me throughout
all this affair. When I have made up my mind what shall be done, I will let him know at once."

As he walked down from his lawyer's chambers in Bedford Row to the railway station he thought
of all this, and thought also of those words which Mrs Mackenzie had spoken to him in the bazaar.
"You have no right to scold him yet," she had said to Margaret. Of course he had understood
what they meant, and of course Margaret had understood them also. And he had not been at all
angry when they were spoken. Margaret had been so prettily dressed, and had looked so fresh
and nice, that at that moment he had forgotten all his annoyances in his admiration, and had
listened to Mrs Mackenzie's cunning speech, not without confusion, but without any immediate
desire to contradict its necessary inference. A moment or two afterwards the harpies had been
upon him, and then he had gone off in his anger. Poor Margaret had been unable to distinguish
between the effects produced by the speech and by the harpies; but Mrs Mackenzie had been more
clever, and had consequently predicted her cousin's speedy promotion in the world's rank.

Sir John, as he went home, made up his mind to one of two alternatives. He would either marry
his cousin or halve Jonathan Ball's money with her. He wanted to marry her, and he wanted to
keep the money. He wanted to marry her especially since he had seen how nice she looked in
black-freckled muslin; but he wanted to marry her in silence, without any clash of absurd trumpets,
without ridicule-moving leading articles, and fingers pointed at the triumphant lion. He made
up his mind to one of those alternatives, and resolved that he would settle which on that very
night. His mind should be made up and told to his mother before he went to bed. Nevertheless,
when the girls and Jack were gone, and he was left alone with Lady Ball, his mind had as yet
been made up to nothing!

His mother gave him no peace on this subject. It was she who began the conversation on this
occasion.

"John," she said, "the time has come for me to settle the question of my residence."

Now the house at Twickenham was the property of the present baronet, but Lady Ball had a jointure
of five hundred a year out of her late husband's estate. It had always been intended that the
mother should continue to live with her son and grandchildren in the very probable event of
her being left a widow; and it was felt by them all that their means were not large enough
to permit, with discretion, separate households; but Lady Ball had declared more than once
with extreme vehemence that nothing should induce her to live at the Cedars if Margaret Mackenzie
should be made mistress of the house.

"Has the time come especially to-day?" he asked in reply.

"I think we may say it has come especially to-day. We know now that you have got this increase
to your income, and nothing is any longer in doubt that we cannot ourselves settle. I need
not say that my dearest wish is to remain here, but you know my mind upon that subject."

"I cannot see any possible reason for your going."

"Nor can I--except the one. I suppose you know yourself what you mean to do about your cousin.
Everybody knows what you ought to do after the disgraceful things that have been put into all
the newspapers."

"That has not been Margaret's fault."

"I am by no means so sure of that. Indeed, I think it has been her fault; and now she has made
herself notorious by being at this bazaar, and by having herself called a ridiculous name by
everybody. Nothing will make me believe but what she likes it."

"You are ready to believe any evil of her, mother; and yet it is not two years since you yourself
wished me to marry her."

"Things are very different since that; very different indeed. And I did not know her then as
I do now, or I should never have thought of such a thing, let her have had all the money in
the world. She had not misbehaved herself then with that horrible curate."

"She has not misbehaved herself now," said the son, in an angry voice.

"Yes, she has, John," said the mother, in a voice still more angry.

"That's a matter for me to judge. She has not misbehaved herself in my eyes. It is a great
misfortune,--a great misfortune for us both,--the conduct of this man; but I won't allow it
to be said that it was her fault."

"Very well. Then I suppose I may arrange to go. I did not think, John, that I should be turned
out of your father's house so soon after your father's death. I did not indeed."

Thereupon Lady Ball got out her handkerchief, and her son perceived that real tears were running
down her face.

"Nobody has ever spoken of your going except yourself, mother."

"I won't live in the house with her."

"And what would you have me do? Would you wish me to let her go her way and starve by herself?"

"No, John; certainly not. I think you should see that she wants for nothing. She could live
with her sister-in-law, and have the interest of the money that the Rubbs took from her. It
was your money."

"I have explained to you over and over again, mother, that that has already been made over
to Mrs Tom Mackenzie; and that would not have been at all sufficient. Indeed, I have altogether
made up my mind upon that. When the lawyers and all the expenses are paid, there will still
be about eight hundred a year. I shall share it with her."

"John!"

"That is my intention; and therefore if I were to marry her I should get an additional income
of four hundred a year for myself and my children."

"You don't mean it, John?"

"Indeed I do, mother. I'm sure the world would expect me to do as much as that."

"The world expect you! And are you to rob your children, John, because the world expects it?
I never heard of such a thing. Give away four hundred a year merely because you are afraid
of those wretched newspapers! I did expect you would have more courage."

"If I do not do one, mother, I shall do the other certainly."

"Then I must beg you to tell me which you mean to do. If you gave her half of all that is coming
to you, of course I must remain here because you could not live here without me. Your income
would be quite insufficient. But you do owe it to me to tell me at once what I am to do."

To this her son made no immediate answer, but sat with his elbow on the table, and his head
upon his hand looking moodily at the fire-place. He did not wish to commit himself if he could
possibly avoid it.

"John, I must insist upon an answer," said his mother. "I have a right to expect an answer."

"You must do what you like, mother, independently of me. If you think you can live here on
your income, I will go away, and you shall have the place."

"That's nonsense, John. Of course you want a large house for the children, and I, if I must
be alone, shall only want one room for myself. What should I do with the house?" Then there
was silence again for a while.

"I will give you a final answer on Saturday," he said at last. "I shall see Margaret before
Saturday."

After that he took his candle and went to bed. It was then Tuesday, and Lady Ball was obliged
to be contented with the promise thus made to her.

On Wednesday he did nothing. On the Thursday morning he received a letter which nearly drove
him mad. It was addressed to him at the office of the Shadrach Fire Insurance Company, and
it reached him there. It was as follows--

   Littlebath, -- June, 186--.

   SIR,

   You are no doubt fully aware of all the efforts which I
   have made during the last six months to secure from your
   grasp the fortune which did belong to my dear--my dearest
   friend, Margaret Mackenzie. For as my dearest friend
   I shall ever regard her, though she and I have been
   separated by machinations of the nature of which she, as I
   am fully sure, has never been aware. I now ascertain that
   some of the inferior law courts have, under what pressure
   I know not, set aside the will which was made twenty years
   ago in favour of the Mackenzie family, and given to you
   the property which did belong to them. That a superior
   court would reverse the judgment, I believe there is
   little doubt; but whether or no the means exist for me
   to bring the matter before the higher tribunals of the
   country I am not yet aware. Very probably I may have
   no such power, and in such case, Margaret Mackenzie is,
   to-day, through your means, a beggar.

   Since this matter has been before the public you have
   ingeniously contrived to mitigate the wrath of public
   opinion by letting it be supposed that you purposed to
   marry the lady whose wealth you were seeking to obtain by
   legal quibbles. You have made your generous intentions
   very public, and have created a romance that has been, I
   must say, but little becoming to your age. If all be true
   that I heard when I last saw Miss Mackenzie at Twickenham,
   you have gone through some ceremony of proposing to her.
   But, as I understand, that joke is now thought to have
   been carried far enough; and as the money is your own, you
   intend to enjoy yourself as a lion, leaving the lamb to
   perish in the wilderness.

   Now I call upon you to assert, under your own name and
   with your own signature, what are your intentions with
   reference to Margaret Mackenzie. Her property, at any rate
   for the present, is yours. Do you intend to make her your
   wife, or do you not? And if such be your intention, when
   do you purpose that the marriage shall take place, and
   where?

   I reserve to myself the right to publish this letter and
   your answer to it; and of course shall publish the fact
   if your cowardice prevents you from answering it. Indeed
   nothing shall induce me to rest in this matter till I
   know that I have been the means of restoring to Margaret
   Mackenzie the means of decent livelihood.

   I have the honour to be, Sir,
   Your very humble servant,

   JEREMIAH MAGUIRE.

   Sir John Ball, Bart., &c., &c,
   Shadrach Fire Office.

Sir John, when he had read this, was almost wild with agony and anger. He threw up his hands
with dismay as he walked along the passages of the Shadrach Office, and fulminated mental curses
against the wasp that was able to sting him so deeply. What should he do to the man? As for
answering the letter, that was of course out of the question; but the reptile would carry out
his threat of publishing the letter, and then the whole question of his marriage would be discussed
in the public prints. An idea came across him that a free press was bad and rotten from the
beginning to the end. This creature was doing him a terrible injury, was goading him almost
to death, and yet he could not punish him. He was a clergyman, and could not be beaten and
kicked, or even fired at with a pistol. As for prosecuting the miscreant, had not his own lawyer
told him over and over again that such a prosecution was the very thing which the miscreant
desired. And then the additional publicity of such a prosecution, and the twang of false romance
which would follow and the horrid alliteration of the story of the two beasts, and all the
ridicule of the incidents, crowded upon his mind, and he walked forth from the Shadrach office
among the throngs of the city a wretched and almost despairing man.

CHAPTER XXIX

A Friend in Need Is a Friend Indeed

When the work of the bazaar was finished all the four Mackenzie ladies went home to Mrs Mackenzie's
house in Cavendish Square, very tired, eager for tea, and resolved that nothing more should
be done that evening. There should be no dressing for dinner, no going out, nothing but idleness,
tea, lamb chops, and gossip about the day's work. Mr Mackenzie was down at the House, and there
was no occasion for any domestic energy. And thus the evening was passed. How Mrs Chaucer Munro
and the loud bevy fared among them, or how old Lady Ware and her daughters, or the poor, dear,
bothered duchess or Mr Manfred Smith, or the kings and heroes who had appeared in paint and
armour, cannot be told. I fear that the Mackenzie verdict about the bazaar in general was not
favourable and that they agreed among themselves to abstain from such enterprises of charity
in future. It concerns us now chiefly to know that our Griselda held up her head well throughout
that evening, and made herself comfortable and at her ease among her cousins, although it was
already known to her that the legal decision had gone against her in the great case of Ball
v. Mackenzie. But had that decision been altogether in her favour the result would not have
been so favourable to her spirits, as had been that little speech made by Mrs Mackenzie as
to her having no right as yet to scold Sir John for his extravagance,--that little speech made
in good humour, and apparently accepted in good humour even by him. But on that evening Mrs
Mackenzie was not able to speak to Margaret about her prospects, or to lecture her on the expediency
of regarding the nicenesses of her dress in Sir John's presence, because of the two other cousins.
The two other cousins, no doubt, knew all the story of the Lion and the Lamb, and talked to
their sister-in-law, Clara, of their other cousin, Griselda, behind Griselda's back; and were
no doubt very anxious that Griselda should become a baronet's wife; but among so large a party
there was no opportunity for confidential advice.

On the next morning Mrs Mackenzie and Margaret were together, and then Mrs Mackenzie began:

"Margaret, my dear," said she, "that bonnet I gave you has been worth its weight in gold."

"It cost nearly as much," said Margaret, "for it was very expensive and very light."

"Or in bank-notes either, because it has shown him and me and everybody else that you needn't
be a dowdy unless you please. No man wishes to marry a dowdy, you know."

"I suppose I was a dowdy when he asked me."

"I wasn't there, and didn't know you then, and can't say. But I do know that he liked the way
you looked yesterday. Now, of course, he'll be coming here before long."

"I dare say he won't come here again the whole summer."

"If he did not, I should send for him."

"Oh, Mrs Mackenzie!"

"And oh, Griselda! Why should I not send for him? You don't suppose I'm going to let this kind
of thing go on from month to month, till that old woman at the Cedars has contrived to carry
her point. Certainly not."

"Now that the matter is settled, of course, I shall not go on staying here."

"Not after you're married, my dear. We couldn't well take in Sir John and all the children.
Besides, we shall be going down to Scotland for the grouse. But I mean you shall be married
out of this house. Don't look so astonished. Why not? There's plenty of time before the end
of July."

"I don't think he means anything of the kind; I don't indeed."

"Then he must be the queerest man that ever I met; and I should say about the falsest and most
heartless also. But whether he means to do that or does not, he must mean to do something.
You don't suppose he'll take all your fortune away from you, and then leave you without coming
to say a word to you about it? If you had disputed the matter, and put him to all manner of
expense; if, in short, you had been enemies through it all, that might have been possible.
But you have been such a veritable lamb, giving your fleece to the shearer so meekly,--such
a true Griselda, that if he were to leave you in that way, no one would ever speak to him again."

"But you forget Lady Ball."

"No, I don't. He'll have a disagreeable scene with his mother, and I don't pretend to guess
what will be the end of that; but when he has done with his mother, he'll come here. He must
do it. He has no alternative. And when he does come, I want you to look your best. Believe
me, my dear, there would be no muslins in the world and no starch, if it was not intended that
people should make themselves look as nice as possible."

"Young people," suggested Margaret.

"Young people, as you call them, can look well without muslin and without starch. Such things
were intended for just such persons as you and me; and as for me, I make it a rule to take
the goods the gods provide me."

Mrs Mackenzie's philosophy was not without its result, and her prophecy certainly came true.
A few days passed by and no lover came, but early on the Friday morning after the bazaar, Margaret,
who at the moment was in her own room, was told that Sir John was below in the drawing-room
with Mrs Mackenzie. He had already been there some little time, the servant said, and Mrs Mackenzie
had sent up with her love to know if Miss Mackenzie would come down. Would she go down? Of
course she would go to her cousin. She was no coward. Indeed, a true Griselda can hardly be
a coward. So she made up her mind to go to her cousin and hear her fate.

The last four-and-twenty hours had been very bitter with Sir John Ball. What was he to do,
walking about with that man's letter in his pocket--with that reptile's venom still curdling
through his veins? On that Thursday morning, as he went towards his office, he had made up
his mind, as he thought, to go to Margaret and bid her choose her own destiny. She should become
his wife, or have half of Jonathan Ball's remaining fortune, as she might herself elect. "She
refused me," he said to himself, "when the money was all hers. Why should she wish to come
to such a house as mine, to marry a dull husband and undertake the charge of a lot of children?
She shall choose herself." And then he thought of her as he had seen her at the bazaar, and
began to flatter himself that, in spite of his dullness and his children, she would choose
to become his wife. He was making some scheme as to his mother's life, proposing that two of
his girls should live with her, and that she should be near to him, when the letter from Mr
Maguire was put into his hands.

How was he to marry his cousin after that? If he were to do so, would not that wretch at Littlebath
declare, through all the provincial and metropolitan newspapers, that he had compelled the
marriage? That letter would be published in the very column that told of the wedding. But yet
he must decide. He must do something. They who read this will probably declare that he was
a weak fool to regard anything that such a one as Mr Maguire could say of him. He was not a
fool, but he was so far weak and foolish; and in such matters such men are weak and foolish,
and often cowardly.

It was, however, absolutely necessary that he should do something. He was as well aware as
was Mrs Mackenzie that it was essentially his duty to see his cousin, now that the question
of law between them had been settled. Even if he had no thought of again asking her to be his
wife, he could not confide to any one else the task of telling her what was to be her fate.
Her conduct to him in the matter of the property had been exemplary, and it was incumbent on
him to thank her for her generous forbearance. He had pledged himself also to give his mother
a final answer on Saturday.

On the Friday morning, therefore, he knocked at the Mackenzies' house door in Cavendish Square,
and soon found himself alone with Mrs Mackenzie. I do not know that even then he had come to
any fixed purpose. What he would himself have preferred would have been permission to postpone
any action as regards his cousin for another six months, and to have been empowered to use
that time in crushing Mr Maguire out of existence. But this might not be so, and therefore
he went to Cavendish Square that he might there decide his fate.

"You want to see Margaret, no doubt," said Mrs Mackenzie, "that you may tell her that her ruin
is finally completed;" and as she thus spoke of her cousin's ruin, she smiled her sweetest
smile and put on her pleasantest look.

"Yes, I do want to see her presently," he said.

Mrs Mackenzie had stood up as though she were about to go in quest of her cousin, but had sat
down again when the word presently was spoken. She was by no means averse to having a few words
of conversation about Margaret, if Sir John should wish it. Sir John, I fear, had merely used
the word through some instinctive idea that he might thereby stave off the difficulty for a while.

"Don't you think she looked very well at the Bazaar?" said Mrs Mackenzie.

"Very well, indeed," he answered; "very well. I can't say I liked the place."

"Nor any of us, I can assure you. Only one must do that sort of thing sometimes, you know.
Margaret was very much admired there. So much has been said of this singular story about her
fortune, that people have, of course, talked more of her than they would otherwise have done."

"That has been a great misfortune," said Sir John, frowning.

"It has been a misfortune, but it has been one of those things that can't be helped. I don't
think you have any cause to complain, for Margaret has behaved as no other woman ever did behave,
I think. Her conduct has been perfect."

"I don't complain of her."

"As for the rest, you must settle that with the world yourself. I don't care for any one beyond
her. But, for my part, I think it is the best to let those things die away of themselves. After
all, what does it matter as long as one does nothing to be ashamed of oneself? People can't
break any bones by their talking."

"Wouldn't you think it very unpleasant, Mrs Mackenzie, to have your name brought up in the
newspapers?"

