Among many articles in a list of Eastern products, which Charles I, in 1631, permitted to be
brought to England, were "quilts of China embroidered in Gold." There is a possibility that
these quilts were appreciated quite as much for the precious metal used in the embroidery as
for the beauty of design and workmanship. It was but a short time after this that women began
to realize how much gold and silver had gone into all forms of needlework. They looked upon
rare and beautiful embroidery with greedy eyes, and a deplorable fashion sprang up, known in
France as "parfilage" and in England as "drizzling." This was nothing more or less than ripping
up, stitch by stitch, the magnificent old hangings, quilts, and even church vestments, to secure
gold and silver thread. Lady Mary Coke, writing from the Austrian Court, says: "All the ladies
who do not play cards pick gold. It is the most general fashion I ever saw, and they all carry
their bags containing the necessary tools in their pockets. They even begged sword knots, epaulettes,
and galons that they might add more of the precious threads to the spool on which they wound
the ravelled bullion, which they sold." To the appreciative collector this seems wanton sacrilege.

John Locke, 1632-1704, a very famous man of Charles II's time, and one of the greatest philosophers
and ardent champions of civil and religious rights which England ever produced, mentioned quilts
in his "Thoughts Concerning Education." In telling of the correct sort of beds for children
he writes as follows: "Let his Bed be hard, and rather Quilts than Feathers. Hard Lodging strengthens
the Parts, whereas being buryed every Night in Feathers melts and dissolves the Body.... Besides,
he that is used to hard Lodging at Home will not miss his Sleep (where he has most Need of
it) in his travels Abroad for want of his soft Bed, and his Pillows laid in Order."

Pepys, a contemporary of Locke, in his incomparable and delicious Diary, remarks: "Home to
my poor wife, who works all day like a horse, at the making of her hanging for our chamber
and bed," thus telling us that he was following the fashion of the day in having wall, window,
and bed draperies alike. It is plain, too, by his frequent "and so to bed," that his place
of sleep and rest was one of comfort in his house.

A quilt depending solely upon the stitching used in quilting, whether it be of the simple running
stitch, the back stitch, or the chain stitch, is not particularly ornamental. However, when
viewed at close range, the effect is a shadowy design in low relief that has a distinctive
but modest beauty when well done. Early in the eighteenth century a liking for this fashion
prevailed, and was put to a variety of uses. Frequently there was no interlining between the
right and wrong sides. At Canons Ashby there are now preserved some handsome quilted curtains
of this type, belonging to Sir Alfred Dryden, Baronet.

During the Middle Ages instruction in the use of the needle was considered a necessary part
of the English girl's education. By the seventeenth century "working fine works with the needle"
was considered of equal importance with singing, dancing, and French in the accomplishments
of a lady of quality. In the eighteenth century much the same sentiment prevailed, and Lady
Montagu is quoted as saying: "It is as scandalous for a woman not to know how to use a needle
as for a man not to know how to use a sword."

The Spectator of that time sarcastically tells of two sisters highly educated in domestic arts
who spend so much time making cushions and "sets of hangings" that they had never learned to
read and write! A sober-minded old lady, grieved by frivolous nieces, begs the Spectator "to
take the laudable mystery of embroidery into your serious consideration," for, says she, "I
have two nieces, who so often run gadding abroad that I do not know when to have them. Another
old lady of the eighteenth century, Miss Hutton, proudly makes the following statement of the
results of years of close application to the needle: "I have quilted counterpanes and chest
covers in fine white linen, in various patterns of my own invention. I have made patchwork
beyond calculation."

Emblems and motifs were great favourites with the quilt workers of "ye olden times" and together
with mottoes were worked into many pieces of embroidery. The following mottoes were copied
from an old quilt made in the seventeenth century: "Covet not to wax riche through deceit,"
"He that has lest witte is most poore," "It is better to want riches than witte," "A covetous
man cannot be riche."

The needle and its products have always been held in great esteem in England, and many of the
old writers refer to needlework with much respect. In 1640 John Taylor, sometimes called the
"Water Poet," published a collection of essays, etc., called "The Needle's Excellency," which
was very popular in its day and ran through twelve editions. In it is a long poem entitled,
"The Prayse of the Needle."

It is interesting to read what Elizabeth Glaister, an Englishwoman, writes of quilts in England:

"Perhaps no piece of secular needlework gave our ancestors more satisfaction, both in the making
and when made, as the quilt or bed coverlet. We have seen a good many specimens of them, both
of the real quilted counterpanes, in which several thicknesses of material were stitched together
into a solid covering, and the lighter silken or linen coverlets ornamented with all sorts
of embroidery. Cradle quilts also were favourite pieces of needlework and figure in inventories
of Henry VIII's time.

"The real quilts were very handsome and the amount of labour bestowed on them was enormous.
The seventeenth century was a great time for them, and the work of this period is generally
very good. The quilting of some of them is made by sewing several strands of thick cotton between
the fine linen of the surface and the lining. When one line was completed the cotton was laid
down again next to it, and another line formed.

"A sort of shell pattern was a favourite for quilting. When a sufficient space was covered
with the ground pattern, flowers or other ornaments were embroidered on this excellent foundation.
Perhaps the best results as a work of art were attained when both quilting and flowers were
done in bright yellow silk; the effect of this colour on a white ground being always particularly
good. A handsome quilt may be worked with a darned background. It is done most easily on huckaback
towelling of rather loose weave, running the needle under the raised threads for the ground.

"A very effective quilt in quite a different style is made in applied work on unbleached cotton
sheeting. A pattern of yellow fruit or flower with leaves is cut out in coloured serges sewn
on with crewels in buttonhole stitch; stems, veins, and buds being also worked in crewels,
and the ground slightly darned in dim yellow crewel. It is elaborate, but a very pleasant and
repaying piece of work.

"Many beautiful old quilts are made of silk and satin embroidered in pure silks or in gold
and silver twist. Most of the best specimens are from France and Italy, where from the arrangement
of the houses the beds have continued to be more en evidence than has been the case in England
for the last two centuries. Many also are of Indian origin; the ground of these is sometimes
of fine soft silk and sometimes of thick muslin, over which the pattern is worked in silk.
Others, though of Indian workmanship, show a European influence, of which the most curious
are those worked at Goa, under Portuguese dominion in the seventeenth century."

CHAPTER IV

THE QUILT IN AMERICA

The date of the quilt's advent into America is unknown, and--because of the lack of knowledge
concerning the house furnishings of the early colonists--can never be positively determined.
Quilts were in such general use and were considered as such ordinary articles that the early
writers about family life in the colonies neglected to mention them. We do know, however, that
quilted garments, bedspreads, curtains, and the like were very essential to the comfort and
well-being of the original settlers along the Atlantic seaboard.

Extensive investigation has shown that the introduction of the arts of patchwork and quilting
to the American continent is due entirely to the English and the Dutch. No evidence has been
found that Spanish or French colonists made use of quilting. The Spaniards in the warm lands
of the South had little real need of warm clothing, and--outside of possible appliqué heraldic
devices on the coats of the early explorers--may be considered as having brought to the New
World none of the art so popular in Spain at the time. The French who opened up Canada brought
none of the quilting or patchwork of France with them. While needlework was taught at a very
early date in the convents of Quebec, it was apparently only the more fanciful kinds of embroidery.
As a protection against the biting northern winters, the early French settlers sought protection
under furs, which could be obtained quite readily in the great woods. To secure more bed clothing,
it was very much easier to engage in a little hunting than to go through the laborious processes
of piecing and quilting. To both Spanish and French, the new world was strictly a man's country--to
adventure in and win riches upon which to retire to a life of ease in their native lands. With
them, therefore, the inspiration of founding a home and providing it with the comforts of life
was lacking; and without such inspiration the household arts could never flourish.

The English and Dutch planted their colonies along the coast from Virginia to Massachusetts
with the primary object of founding new homes for themselves. With them came their wives and
daughters, who brought along as their portion such household comforts and conveniences as they
possessed. Under their willing hands spinning, weaving, and the manufacture of garments began
immediately. Their poorly heated log houses made necessary an adequate supply of bedding and
hangings for protection against the winter cold. Substantial, heavy curtains, frequently lined
and quilted, were hung over both doors and windows and were kept closely drawn during the bitter
winter nights. In the more imposing homes were silk damask curtains with linings of quilted
silk to keep out the drafts of cold that swept through the rooms.

In Massachusetts in the early colonial days quilted garments, especially petticoats, were in
general use. It is a curious circumstance that we owe this bit of information largely to the
description of runaway slaves. In 1728 the News Letter published an advertisement of a runaway
Indian servant who, wearied by the round of domestic drudgery, adorned herself in borrowed
finery and fled: "She wore off a Narrow Stript pinck cherredary Gown turned up with a little
floured red and white Callico.

A few items in a list of articles ordered from England for a New England bride, Miss Judith
Sewall, who was married in 1720, give some idea of what was considered as a suitable wedding
outfit during that period. The bride belonged to a rich family and no doubt had furnishings
much more extensive than usual: "A Duzen of good Black Walnut Chairs, A Duzen Cane Chairs,
and a great chair for a chamber, all black Walnut. One Duzen large Pewter Plates, new fashion,
a Duzen Ivory-hafted knives and forks. Send also of the same camlet and trimming as may be
enough to make cushions for the chamber chairs. A good fine larger Chintz quilt, well made."
This list also includes such items as kitchen utensils, warming pans, brass fenders, tongs,
and shovels, and "four pairs of large Brass candlesticks."

As the resources of the new country were developed, the women were given some respite from
their spinning, weaving, and garment making. Much of their hard-won leisure was spent piecing
quilts. In the rigorous climate of bleak New England there was great need of warm clothing
and bedding, and the spare moments of the housekeeper were largely occupied in increasing her
supply. To make the great amount of bedding necessary in the unheated sleeping rooms, every
scrap and remnant of woollen material left from the manufacture of garments was saved. To supplement
these, the best parts of worn-out garments were carefully cut out, and made into quilt pieces.

Beautiful, even gorgeous, materials were imported for costumes of the wives and daughters of
the wealthy colonists. There may be a greater variety of fabrics woven to-day, but none is
more splendid in texture and colour than those worn by the stately ladies of colonial times.
The teachings of the strict Puritans advocated plainness and simplicity of dress; even the
ministers in the churches preached against the "sinfulness of display of fine raiment." Notwithstanding
the teachings and pleadings of the clergy, there was great rivalry in dress among the inhabitants
of the larger colonial towns. "Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy," was unnecessary advice
to give to the rich colonist or to his wife. Men's attire was also of costly velvets lined
with handsome brocades; beautifully embroidered waistcoats, silk stockings, and gold lace trimmings
were further additions to their costumes during the pre-Revolutionary period.

After these gay and costly fabrics had served their time as wearing apparel, they were carefully
preserved and made over into useful articles for the household. The pinch of hard times during
the struggle for independence made it imperative for many well-to-do families to economize.
Consequently, in many old patchwork quilts may be found bits of the finest silks, satins, velvets,
and brocades, relics of more prosperous days.

Alice Morse Earle, in her charming book on "Home Life in Colonial Days," gives us a rare insight
into our great-grandmothers' fondness for patchwork, and how highly they prized their bits
of highly coloured fabrics:

"The feminine love of colour, the longing for decoration, as well as pride in skill of needlecraft,
found riotous expression in quilt making. Women revelled in intricate and difficult patchwork;
they eagerly exchanged patterns with one another; they talked over the designs, and admired
pretty bits of calico and pondered what combinations to make, with far more zest than women
ever discuss art or examine high art specimens together to-day. There was one satisfactory
condition in the work, and that was the quality of cottons and linens of which the patchwork
was made. Real India chintzes and palampores are found in these quilts, beautiful and artistic
stuffs, and the firm, unyielding, high-priced, 'real' French calicoes.

"Portions of discarded uniforms, old coat and cloak linings, brilliantly dyed worn flannel
shirts and well-worn petticoats were component parts of quilts that were needed for warmth.
A magnificent scarlet cloak, worn by a Lord Mayor of London and brought to America by a member
of the Merrit family of Salisbury, Massachusetts, went through a series of adventures and migrations
and ended its days as small bits of vivid colour, casting a grateful glory and variety on a
patchwork quilt in the Saco Valley of Maine.

"Around the outstretched quilt a dozen quilters could sit, running the whole together with
fanciful set designs of stitchery. Sometimes several quilts were set up, and I know of a ten
days' quilting bee in Narragansett in 1752."

The women who came from Holland to make their homes on the narrow island at the mouth of the
Hudson were housekeepers of traditional Dutch excellence. They delighted in well-stocked linen
closets and possessed unusual quantities of sheets, pillow cases, and bedding, mostly of their
own spinning and weaving. Like their English neighbours to the north, in Connecticut and Massachusetts,
they adopted quilted hangings and garments for protection against the severity of winter. Their
quilted petticoats were the pride and joy of these transplanted Hollanders, and in their construction
they exerted their highest talents in design and needlework. These petticoats, which were worn
short enough to display the home-knitted hose, were thickly interlined as well as quilted.
They were very warm, as the interlining was usually of wool. The fuller the purse, the richer
and gayer were the petticoats of the New Amsterdam dames.

While not so strict in religious matters as their Puritan neighbours, the early inhabitants
of New Amsterdam always observed Sunday and attended church regularly. Within the fort at the
battery stood the church, built of "Manhattan Stone" in 1642. Its two peaked roofs with the
watch-tower between was the most prominent object of the fortress. "On Sunday mornings the
two main streets, Broadway and Whitehall, were filled with dignified and sedate churchgoers
arrayed in their best clothes. The tucked-up panniers worn by the women displayed to the best
advantage the quilted petticoats. Red, blue, black, and white were the favourite and predominating
colours, and the different materials included fine woollen cloth, camlet, grosgrain silk, and
satin. Of all the articles of feminine attire of that period the quilted petticoat was the
most important. They were worn short, displaying the low shoes with high heels and coloured
hose with scarlet clockings; silken hoods partially covered their curled and powdered hair;
altogether a charming and delightful picture."

The low, flat land of South Manhattan lying along the Hudson, because of its similarity to
their mother country, was a favourite dwelling-place in New Netherlands. This region, known
as Flatbush, was quickly covered with Dutch homes and big, orderly, flourishing gardens. A
descendant of one of the oldest Dutch families which settled in this locality, Mrs. Gertrude
Lefferts Vanderbilt, in her book, "The Social History of Flatbush," has given many interesting
details of early New York life. She tells of the place quilt making held in the community,
and how the many intricate patterns of patchwork pleasantly occupied the spare moments of the
women, thus serving as a means of expression of their love of colour and design. The following
little domestic picture shows how conveniently near the thrifty housewife kept her quilt blocks:
"A low chair with a seat of twisted osier, on which was tied a loose feather-filled cushion,
covered with some gay material. On the back of these chairs hung the bag of knitting, with
the little red stocking and shining needles plainly visible, indicating that this was the favourite
seat of the industrious mother of the family; or a basket of patchwork held its place upon
a low stool (bankje) beside the chair, also to be snatched up at odd intervals (ledige tyd)."

One reliable source of information of the comforts and luxuries that contributed to pleasant
dwelling in old New York is found in old inventories of household effects. Occasionally complete
lists are found that throw much light on the furnishings of early days. Such an inventory of
the household belongings of Captain John Kidd, before he went to sea and turned pirate, mentions
over sixty different kinds of house furnishings, from a skillet to a dozen chairs embellished
with Turkish embroidery. Among the articles with which John Kidd and his wife Sarah began housekeeping
in New York in 1692, as recorded in this inventory, were four bedsteads, with three suits of
hangings, curtains, and valances to go with them. Feather beds, feather pillows, linen sheets,
tablecloths, and napkins, ten blankets, and three quilts. How much of this store of household
linens was part of his wife's wedding dower is not stated.

The early settlers in Virginia and the Carolinas were mostly English of the better class, who
had been landed proprietors with considerable retinues of servants. As soon as these original
colonists secured a firm foothold, large estates were developed on which the manners and customs
of old England were followed as closely as possible. Each plantation became a self-supporting
community, since nearly all the actual necessities were produced or manufactured thereon. The
loom worked ceaselessly, turning the wool, cotton, and flax into household commodities, and
even the shoes for both slave and master were made from home-tanned leather. For their luxuries,
the ships that carried tobacco and rice to the English markets returned laden with books, wines,
laces, silverware, and beautiful house furnishings of every description.

In the colonial plantation days of household industry quilts, both patchwork and plain, were
made in considerable numbers. Quilts were then in such general use as to be considered too
commonplace to be described or even mentioned. Consequently, we are forced to depend for evidence
of their existence in those days on bills of sale and inventories of auctions. These records,
however, constitute an authority which cannot be questioned.

In 1774 Belvoir, the home of the Fairfax family, one of the largest and most imposing of houses
of Virginia, was sold and its contents were put up at auction. A partial list of articles bought
at this sale by George Washington, then Colonel Washington, and here given, will show the luxury
to which the Southern planter was accustomed: "A mahogany shaving desk, settee bed and furnishings,
four mahogany chairs, oval glass with gilt frame, mahogany sideboard, twelve chairs, and three
window curtains from dining-room. Several pairs of andirons, tongs, shovels, toasting forks,
pickle pots, wine glasses, pewter plates, many blankets, pillows, bolsters, and nineteen coverlids."

It was customary in the good old days after a dinner or ball for the guests, who necessarily
came from long distances, to stay all night, and many bedrooms, frequently from ten to twenty-five,
besides those needed for the family, were provided in the big houses. All were beautifully
furnished with imported, massive, carved furniture from France and England. In one year, 1768,
in Charlestown, South Carolina, occurred twelve weddings among the wealthy residents of that
city, and all the furniture for these rich couples came from England. The twelve massive beds
with canopies supported by heavily carved posts, decorated with rice stalks and full heads
of grain, were so high that steps were needed in order to climb into them. Elaborate and expensive
curtains and spreads were furnished to correspond. In one early inventory of an extensively
furnished house there are mentioned "four feather beds, bolsters, two stools, looking-glass
tipt with silver, two Turkey carpets, one yellow mohair bed counterpane, and two green silk
quilts." From this it is evident that the quilt had already found its place, and no doubt in
great numbers, on account of the many beds to furnish in the spacious house of the rich planters.

Shortly after the Revolution came the great migration from Virginia over the ridges of the
Blue and the Appalachian chains into what was then the wilderness of Tennessee and Kentucky.
The descendants of these hardy pioneers who first forced their way westward still live among
the Kentucky and Virginia hills under the conditions which prevailed a hundred years ago. In
this heavily timbered rough country they manage to eke out a precarious existence by cultivating
small hillside patches of cotton, corn, and a few vegetables. Immured in the seclusion of the
mountains they have remained untouched by the world's progress during the past century. Year
after year they are satisfied to live this secluded existence, and but rarely make an acquaintance
with a stranger. Educational advantages, except of the most elementary sort, are almost unknown,
and the majority of these mountaineers neither read nor write. As a result of this condition
of isolated and primitive living, existing in the mountains of Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee,
and the Carolinas, the household crafts that flourished in this country before the advent of
machinery are still carried on exactly as in the old days.

The simple needs of the family are almost entirely supplied by the women of the household.
They spin, weave, and make the few plain garments which they and their families wear. Day after
day, year in and year out, these isolated women must fill in the hours with little tasks connected
with home life. As in many other instances where women are dependent upon their own resources
for amusement, they have recourse to their needles. Consequently, it is in the making of quilts,
coverlets, and allied forms of needlework that these mountain women spend their hours of recreation.

The quilts, both pieced and patched, that are made in mountaineers' cabins have a great variety
of designs. Many designs have been used again and again by each succeeding generation of quilters
without any variation whatever, and have well-known names. There are also designs that have
been originated by a proficient quilt maker, who has made use of some common flower as the
basis for her conventional design. It has not been a great many years since the materials used
in making the mountain quilts were dyed as well as woven in the home. The dyes were homemade
from common roots and shrubs gathered from nearby woods and meadows. Blue was obtained from
wild indigo; brown from walnut hulls; black from the bark of scrub-oak; and yellow from laurel
leaves. However, the materials which must be purchased for a quilt are so meagre, and the colours
called "oil boiled"--now used to dye calico--are so fast, that the mountain women seldom dye
their own fabrics any more. They bring in a few chickens or eggs to the nearest village, and
in exchange obtain a few yards of precious coloured calico for their quilts.

Miss Bessie Daingerfield, a Kentuckian, who is in close touch with these mountaineers, tells
us what a void the quilt fills in the lives of the lonely women of the hills: "While contemporary
women out in the world are waging feminist war, those in the mountains of the long Appalachian
chain still sit at their quilting frames and create beauty and work wonders with patient needles.
There is much beautiful and skilful handiwork hidden away in these hills. The old women still
weave coverlets, towels, and table linen from wool from their own sheep and from flax grown
in their own gardens. The girls adorn their cotton gowns with 'compass work,' exact, exquisite.
In some places the men and boys, girls and women, make baskets of hickory reeds and willows
to delight the heart of the collector. But from the cradle to the grave, the women make quilts.
The tiny girl shows you with pride the completed four patch or nine patch, square piled on
square, which 'mammy aims to set up for her ag'inst spring.' The mother tells you half jesting,
half in earnest, 'the young un will have several ag'inst she has a home of her own.' No bride
of the old country has more pride in her dower chest than the mountain bride in her pile of
quilts. The old woman will show you a stack of quilts from floor to ceiling of her cabin. One
dear old soul told me she had eighty-four, all different, and 'ever' stitch, piecin', settin'
up, quiltin', my own work and ne'er another finger tetched hit.'"

Patchwork was an important factor in making plain the knotty problems of existence, as Eliza
Calvert Hall clearly shows when she makes "Aunt Jane of Kentucky" say: "How much piecin' a
quilt is like livin' a life!

In the great Central West, from Ohio to the Mississippi, the early settlers passed through
the same cycle of development as did their ancestors in the beginnings of the original colonies
along the seaboard. The same dangers and privations were faced, and the women, as well as the
men, quickly adapted themselves to the hardships of life in a new country. Shortly after the
War of 1812, which secured to the United States a clear title to this vast region, the great
migration into the Ohio Valley began. Some families came by way of the Great Lakes, some by
wagon over the Pennsylvania ridges, and still others by horseback over the mountains from Virginia.
One and all of these pioneer families brought with them their most cherished household possessions.
It is hardly necessary to say that every family had one or more quilts among its household
goods. Many cases are on record of rare old mahogany bureaus and bedsteads transported hundreds
of miles over trails through the wilderness on pack horses. Upon arrival at the site chosen
for the future home, the real work of house building and furnishing began.

"Only he who knows what it means to hew a home out of the forest; of what is involved in the
task of replacing mighty trees with corn; only he who has watched the log house rising in the
clearing, and has witnessed the devotedness that gathers around the old log schoolhouse and
the pathos of a grave in the wilderness, can understand how sobriety, decency, age, devoutness,
beauty, and power belong to the story of those who began the mighty task of changing the wild
west into the heart of a teeming continent." Thus Jenkin Lloyd Jones, in his address on "The
Father of Lincoln," gives a graphic picture of the labours and trials confronting those who
made the first settlements in what are now the flourishing states of Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky,
Illinois, and Michigan.

As in the colonies of New England, so here, the comforts of the family depended upon the thrift,
energy, and thoughtfulness of the women. Practically every article of clothing worn by the
entire family, as well as all household supplies, were the work of their busy hands. All day
in the frontier cabin could be heard the hum of the spinning wheel, the clack of the loom,
or the click of knitting needles. In many localities the added work of teaching the children
fell to the mothers, and the home lessons given around the fireplace, heaped with glowing logs,
were the only ones possible for many boys and girls. It is of particular interest to note how
often learning and housekeeping went hand in hand in the first homes of this new country. The
few lines following are extracts from the diary of a busy Indiana housewife of the period preceding
the Mexican War, and show how fully occupied was the time of the pioneer woman:

"November 10th. To-day was cider-making day, and all were up at sunrise."

"December 1st. We killed a beef to-day, the neighbours helping."

"December 4th. I was much engaged in trying out my tallow. To-day I dipped candles and finished
the 'Vicar of Wakefield.'"

"December 8th. To-day I commenced to read the 'Life of Washington,' and I borrowed a singing
book. Have been trying to make a bonnet. The cotton we raised served a very good purpose for
candle-wicking when spun."

