A HISTORY OF THE McGUFFEY READERS.

A HISTORY

OF THE

McGUFFEY READERS

By

HENRY H. VAIL.

WITH THREE PORTRAITS.

THE BOOKISH BOOKS--IV.

New Edition.

  CLEVELAND
  THE BURROWS BROTHERS CO.
  1911

Copyright, 1911, by Henry H. Vail.

A History of the McGuffey Readers

THE BOOKS.

Before me are four small books roughly bound in boards, the sides covered with paper. On the
reverse of the title pages, two bear a copyright entry in the year 1836; the others were entered
in 1837. They are the earliest editions of McGuffey's Eclectic Readers that have been found
in a search lasting forty years.

They represent the first efforts in an educational and business enterprise that has for three-quarters
of a century called for the best exertions of many skilled men, and in their several forms
these books have taken a conspicuous part in the education of millions of the citizens of this
country.

But what interest can the history of the McGuffey Eclectic Readers have to those who did not
use these books in their school career? Their story differs from that of other readers since
in successive forms, adjusted more or less perfectly to the changing demands of the schools,
they attained a wider and more prolonged use than has been accorded to any other series.

[The Function of Readers]

By custom and under sanction of law certain studies are pursued in the common schools of every
state. Spelling, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, history, grammar, civics and physiology
are the subjects usually taught. The school authorities select the textbooks which shall be
used in each subject. The readers are the only texts used in all schools affording opportunity
for distinct ethical teaching. The history of our country should give ideas of patriotism;
the civics should contain the primary notions of government; the physiologies should instruct
the pupils in the laws of health; but the reader should cover the whole field of morals and
manners and in language that will impress their teaching indelibly upon the mind of every pupil.
While the chief aim of the school readers must be to teach the child to apprehend thought from
the printed page and convey this thought to the attentive listener with precision, these efforts
should be exerted upon thoughts that have permanent value. No other texts used in the school
room bear directly and positively upon the formation of character in the pupils. The school
readers are the proper and indispensable texts for teaching true patriotism, integrity, honesty,
industry, temperance, courage, politeness, and all other moral and intellectual virtues. In
these books every lesson should have a distinct purpose in view, and the final aim should be
to establish in the pupils high moral principles which are at the foundation of character.

[Formers of Character]

The literature of the English language is rich in material suited to this intent; no other
language is better endowed. This material is fresh to every pupil, no matter how familiar it
may be to teacher or parent. Although some of it has been in print for three centuries, it
is true and beautiful today.

President Eliot has said, "When we teach a child to read, our primary aim is not to enable
it to decipher a way-bill or a receipt, but to kindle its imagination, enlarge its vision and
open for it the avenues of knowledge." Knowledge gives power, which may be exerted for good
or for evil. Character gives direction to power. Power is the engine which may force the steamer
through the water, character is the helm which renders the power serviceable for good.

Readers which have been recognized as formers of good habits of action, thought, and speech
for three-quarters of a century, which have taught a sound morality to millions of children
without giving offense to the most violent sectarian, which have opened the doors of pure literature
to all their users, are surely worthy of study as to their origin, their successive changes,
and their subsequent career.

The story of these readers is told in the specimens of the several editions, in the long treasured
and time-worn contracts, in the books of accounts kept by the successive publishers, and in
the traditions which have been passed down from white haired men who gossiped of the early
days in the schoolbook business. Valuable information has also been furnished by descendants
of the McGuffey family, and by the educational institutions with which each of the authors
of the readers was connected.

[Different Editions]

For half a century the present writer has had personal knowledge of the readers. At first,
as a teacher, using them daily in the class room; but soon, as an editor, directing the literary
work of the publishers and owners. It therefore falls to him to narrate a story "quorum pars
minima fui."

For more than seventy years the McGuffey Readers have held high rank as text-books for use
in the elementary schools, especially throughout the West and South. But during this time these
books have been revised five times and adjusted to the changed conditions in the schools. In
each one of these revisions the marked characteristics of the original series have been most
scrupulously retained, and the continued success of the series is doubtless owing to this fact.
There has been a continuity of spirit.

[Contents of the Books]

The First and Second Readers were first published in 1836. In 1837 the Third and Fourth Readers
were printed. For reasons elsewhere explained these books were "improved and enlarged" in 1838.
In 1841 a higher reader was added to the series which was then named McGuffey's Rhetorical
Guide. In the years 1843 and 1844 the four books then constituting the series were thoroughly
remodeled and on the title pages were placed the words "Newly Revised" and the Rhetorical Guide
was annexed as the Fifth Reader. Ten years later the entire series was made over and issued
in six books. These were then called the New Readers. From 1853 until 1878 the books remained
substantially unchanged; but in the latter year they were renewed largely in substance and
improved in form. These readers as copyrighted in 1879 were extensively used for more than
a quarter of a century. Changing conditions in the school room called for another revision
in 1901. This latest form now in extensive use is called The New McGuffey Readers.

Each of these revisions has constituted practically a new series although the changes have
never included the entire contents. In the higher readers will be found today many selections
which appeared in the original books. The reason for retaining such selections is clear. No
one has been able to write in the English language selections that are better for school use
than some written by Shakespeare, Milton, Bacon, and other early writers. The literature of
the English language has not all been written in the present decade nor in the last century.

As at first published, the lower books of the McGuffey Readers had no trace of the modern methods
now used in teaching the mastery of words--even the alphabet was not given in orderly form;
but the alphabetic method of teaching the art of reading was then the only one used. The pupil
at first spelled each word by naming the letters and then pronounced each syllable and then
the word.

[First Editions]

The following stanza is copied from page 61 of the edition of 1844 to illustrate the method
of presenting words:

  I like to see a lit-tle dog,
    And pat him on the head;
  So pret-ti-ly he wags his tail
    When-ev-er he is fed.

The First Reader was mostly in words of one syllable. In this book we find the story of the
lame dog that, when cured, brought another lame dog to be doctored: of the kind boy who freed
his caged bird; of the cruel boy who drowned the cat and pulled wings and legs from flies;
of Peter Pindar the story teller, and the "snow dog" of Mount St. Bernard; of Mr. Post who
adopted and reared Mary; of the boy who told a lie and repented after he was found out; of
the chimney sweep who was tempted to steal a gold watch but put it back and was thereafter
educated by its owner; of the whisky boy; and of the mischievous boy who played ghost and made
another boy insane. Nearly every lesson has a moral clearly stated in formal didactic words
at its close.

In the Second Reader we find the story of the idle boy who talked with the bees, dogs, and
horses, and having found them all busy, reformed himself; of the kind girl who shared her cake
with a dog and an old man; of the mischievous boys who tied the grass across the path and thus
upset not only the milk-maid but the messenger running for a doctor to come to their father;
of the wise lark who knew that the farmer's grain would not be cut until he resolved to cut
it himself; of the wild and ravenous bear that treed a boy and hung suspended by his boot;
and of another bear that traveled as a passenger by night in a stage coach; of the quarrelsome
cocks, pictured in a clearly English farm yard, that were both eaten up by the fox that had
been brought in by the defeated cock; of the honest boy and the thief who was judiciously kicked
by the horse that carried oranges in baskets; of George Washington and his historic hatchet
and the mutilated cherry-tree; and of the garden that was planted with seeds in lines spelling
Washington's name which removed all doubt as to an intelligent Creator. There were also some
lessons on such animals as beavers, whales, peacocks and lions.

[Favorite Selections]

The Third Reader will be remembered first because of the picture, on the cover, of Napoleon
on his rearing charger. This book contained five selections from the Bible; Croly's "Conflagration
of the Ampitheatre at Rome;" "How a Fly Walks on the Ceiling;" "The Child's Inquiry;" "How
big was Alexander, Pa;" Irving's "Description of Pompey's Pillar;" Woodworth's "Old Oaken Bucket;"
Miss Gould's "The Winter King;" and Scott's "Bonaparte Crossing the Alps," commencing "'Is
the route practicable?' said Bonaparte. 'It is barely possible to pass,' replied the engineer.
'Let us set forward, then,' said Napoleon." The rearing steed facing a precipitous slope in
the picture gave emphasis to the words. There were also in this reader several pieces about
Indians and bears, which indicate that Dr. McGuffey never forgot the stories told at the fireside
by his father of his adventures as an Indian scout and hunter.

In the Fourth Reader there were seventeen selections from the Bible; William Wirt's "Description
of the Blind Preacher;" Phillip's "Character of Napoleon Bonaparte;" Bacon's "Essay on Studies;"
Nott's "Speech on the Death of Alexander Hamilton;" Addison's "Westminster Abbey;" Irving's
"Alhambra;" Rogers's "Genevra;" Willis's "Parrhasius;" Montgomery's "Make Way for Liberty;"
two extracts from Milton and two from Shakespeare, and no less than fourteen selections from
the writings of the men and women who lectured before the College of Teachers in Cincinnati.
The story of the widow of the Pine Cottage sharing her last smoked herring with a strange traveler
who revealed himself as her long-lost son, returning rich from the Indies, was anonymous, but
it will be remembered by those who read it.

These selections were the most noteworthy ones in the first editions of these readers.

The First and Second Readers of the McGuffey Series were substantially made new at each revision.
A comparison of the original Third Reader with an edition copyrighted in 1847, shows that the
latter book was increased about one-third in size. Of the sixty-six selections in the early
edition only forty-seven were retained, while thirty new ones were inserted. Among the latter
were "Harry and his Dog Frisk" that brought to him, punished by being sent to bed, a Windsor
pear; "Perseverance," a tale of kite-flying followed by the poem, "Try, try again;" the "Little
Philosopher," named Peter Hurdle, who caught Mr. Lenox's runaway horse and on examination seemed
to lack nothing but an Eclectic spelling book, a reader and a Testament--which were promised
him; "The Colonists," in which men of various callings offered their services, and while even
the dancing master was accepted as of some possible use, the gentleman was scornfully rejected;
"Things by Their Right Names," in which a battle was described as wholesale murder; "Little
Victories," in which Hugh's mother consoled him for the loss of a leg by telling him of the
lives of men who became celebrated under even greater adversities; "The Wonderful Instrument,"
which turned out to be the eye; "Metaphysics," a ludicrous description of a colonial salt-box
in affected terms of exactness designed to ridicule some forms of reasoning. Those who used
this edition of the third reader will surely remember some of these selections.

[The Bible]

In the Fourth Reader printed in 1844 there were thirty new selections--less than one-third
of the book; but some of these were such as will be remembered by those who read them in school.
There was "Respect for the Sabbath Rewarded," in which a barber of Bath had become so poor
because he would not shave his customers on Sunday, that he borrowed a half-penny to buy a
candle Saturday night to give light for a late customer, and was thus discovered to be the
long-lost William Reed of Taunton, heir to many thousand pounds; "The Just Judge," who disguised
himself as a miller and, obtaining a place on the jury, received only five guineas as a bribe
when the others got ten, and who revealed himself as Lord Chief Justice Hale and tried the
case over in his miller's clothing; Hawthorne's "The Town Pump;" Mrs. Southey's "April Day."

  "All day the low-hung clouds have dropped
    Their garnered fullness down.
  All day a soft gray mist hath wrapped
    Hill, valley, grove and town."

Bryant's "Death of the Flowers;" Campbell's "Lochiel's Warning;" and the trial scene from Shakespeare's
Merchant of Venice. All these became favorite reading exercises in later years.

As late as 1840 the Bible was read daily in all the schools of the West. Although sectarian
or denominational teaching was not permitted, religious instruction was desired by the great
majority of school patrons.

Even up to the opening of the Civil War, whatever the faith or the practice of the adult inhabitants
of the country, the Bible story and the Bible diction were familiar to all. The speeches of
the popular orators of that day were filled with distinct allusions to the Bible and these
were quickly and clearly apprehended by the people. It may be questioned whether popular speeches
of the present day would have equal force if based on the assumption that everybody knows the
Biblical stories. Indeed it is a common remark made by professors of English in the higher
institutions of learning that pupils know little of the Bible as a distinctly formative and
conservative element in English literature. In the texts authorized for the study of English
classics, Biblical allusions are very common. These have little meaning to pupils who have
not read the Bible, unless the passage is pointed out and hunted up.

[Dr. Swing's Opinion]

From the pages of these readers the pupils learned to master the printed word and obtain the
thought of the authors. Without conscious effort they received moral instruction and incentives
toward right living. Without intent they treasured in their memories such extracts from the
authors of the best English Literature as gave them a desire to read more.

[Books as Teachers]

In one of his sermons Dr. David Swing of Chicago said: "Much as you may have studied the languages
or the sciences, that which most affected you was the moral lessons in the series of McGuffey.
And yet the reading class was filed out only once a day to read for a few moments, and then
we were all sent to our seats to spend two hours in learning how to bound New Hampshire or
Connecticut, or how long it would take a greyhound to overtake a fox or a hare if the spring
of each was so and so, and the poor fugitive had such and such a start. That was perhaps well,
but we have forgotten how to bound Connecticut, and how to solve the equation of the field
and thicket; but up out of the far-off years come all the blessed lessons in virtue and righteousness
which those reading books taught; and when we now remember, how even these moral memories have
faded I cannot but wish the teachers had made us bound the States less, and solve fewer puzzles
in 'position' and the 'cube root' and made us commit to memory the whole series of the McGuffey
Eclectic Headers. The memory that comes from these far-away pages is full of the best wisdom
of time or the timeless land. In these books we were indeed led by a schoolmaster, from beautiful
maxims for children up to the best thoughts of a long line of sages, and poets, and naturalists.
There we all first learned the awful weakness of the duel that took away a Hamilton; there
we saw the grandeur of the Blind Preacher of William Wirt; there we saw the emptiness of the
ambition of Alexander, and there we heard even the infidel say, 'Socrates died like a philosopher,
but Jesus Christ like a God.'"

This public recognition of the influence of these readers upon the mind and character of this
great preacher is again noted in Rev. Joseph Fort Newton's biography of David Swing in which
the books which influenced that life are named as "The Bible, Calvin's Institutes, Fox's Book
of Martyrs and the McGuffey Readers;" and the author quotes David Swing as saying that "The
Institutes were rather large reading for a boy, but to the end of his life he held that McGuffey's
Sixth Reader was a great book. For Swing, as for many a boy in the older West, its varied and
wise selections from the best English authors were the very gates of literature ajar."

One of the most eminent political leaders of the present day attributes his power in the use
of English largely to the study of McGuffey's Sixth Reader in the common schools of Ohio.

[How a Japanese Learned English]

At a dinner lately given in New York to Marquis Ito of Japan, the marquis responded to the
toast of his health returning thanks in English. He then continued his remarks in Japanese
for some eight minutes. At its close Mr. Tsudjuki, who was then the minister of Education in
Japan, traveling with Marquis Ito as his friend and companion, and who had taken shorthand
notes of the Japanese speech, rose and translated the speech readily and fluently into good
English. One of the guests asked how he had learned to speak English so correctly. He replied
that he had done so in the public schools of Japan and added, "I learned my English from McGuffey's
Readers, with which you are no doubt familiar."

[The Authorship]

It is not unusual to see in the literary columns of a daily newspaper inquiries as to where
certain poems may be found of which a single stanza is faintly recalled. Many of these prove
to be fragments of pieces that are found in the McGuffey Readers. Quite lately Theodore Roosevelt
made the public statement that he did not propose to become a "Meddlesome Matty." This allusion
was perfectly clear to the millions of people who used the McGuffey Readers at any time after 1853.

When the Fourth Reader was issued in 1837 it contained a preface of three closely printed pages
setting forth and defending the plan of McGuffey's books. In this he said: "In conclusion,
the author begs leave to state, that the whole series of Eclectic Readers is his own. In the
preparation of the rules, etc., for the present volume he has had the assistance of a very
distinguished Teacher, whose judgment and zeal in promoting the cause of education have often
been commended by the American people. In the arrangement of the series generally, he is indebted
to many of his friends for valuable suggestions, and he takes this opportunity of tendering
them his thanks for the lively interest they have manifested for the success of his undertaking."

The sole author of the four readers first issued as the Eclectic Readers was William Holmes
McGuffey. He was responsible for the marked qualities in these books which met with such astonishing
popular approval in all these years. What these qualities are is well known to those who have
used the books and the users are numbered by millions.

[The Rhetorical Guide]

The Rhetorical Guide was prepared by Mr. A.H. McGuffey, and his name alone was on the early
editions. In 1844 the book was revised by the author and Dr. Pinneo, and was given the alternate
title "or Fifth Reader of the Eclectic Series." The work of revision occupied two years. The
title page carried the name of its author until, for reasons of his own, he asked to have it
removed.

As usual when revisions of schoolbooks are made, the older edition was continued in publication
so long as a distinct demand for it existed. But the issuance of a revised edition always suggests
the question of change, which competing publishers promptly seek to bring about. The publishers
of the "Newly Revised McGuffey Readers," therefore, sought to replace the older edition wherever
it was in use and to displace competing books wherever possible. The edition of 1843 acquired
large sales over a very wide territory in the central West and South. It is the edition generally
known by the grandfathers of the school boys of the present day.

It may be interesting to name some of the selections in this Rhetorical Guide issued in 1844
since in modified form the work has been the highest reader of the series.

[Selections of Value]

As a guide toward rhetorical reading the book contained a carefully prepared collection of
rules and directions with examples for practice in Articulation. Inflection, Accent and Emphasis,
Reading Verse, for the Management of the Voice and Gesture. These pages were intended for drill
work, and in those days the teachers were not content with the dull monotonous utterance of
the words or with mere mastery of thought, to be tested by multitudinous questioning. If the
pupil obtained from the printed page the very thought the author intended to convey, the pupil
was expected to read orally so as to express that thought to all hearers. If the correct thought
was thus heard, no questions were needed. The test of reading orally is the communication of
thought by the reader to the intelligent and attentive hearer, and the words of the author
carry this message more accurately than can any other words the pupil may select.

[Noted Selections]

The selections in the Rhetorical Guide were made, first of all, to teach the art of reading.
There was therefore great variety. Second, to inculcate a love for literature. Therefore the
selections were taken from the great writers,--poets, orators, essayists, historians, and preachers.
The extracts are wonderfully complete in themselves,--one does not need to read the whole of
Byron's Don Juan to appreciate the six stanzas that describe the thunder-storm on the Alps.
Of the poetical extracts all the users of this book will remember Southey's "Cataract of Lodore"
with its exacting drill on the ending,--"ing," Longfellow's "Village Blacksmith" and the "Reaper
and the Flowers;" Bryant's "Thanatopsis" and "Song of the Stars;" Wolfe's "Burial of Sir John
Moore;" Gray's "Elegy;" Mrs. Hemans's "Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers;" Cowper's "My Mother's
Picture;" Jones's "What Constitutes a State;" Scott's "Lochinvar;" Halleck's "Marco Bozzaris;"
Drake's "American Flag;" and Mrs. Thrale's "Three Warnings." As an introduction to the thought,
imagery and diction of Shakespeare, there were "Hamlet's Soliloquy," "Speech of Henry Fifth
to his Troops," "Othello's Apology," "The Fall of Cardinal Wolsey" and his death, the "Quarrel
of Brutus and Cassius" (often committed to memory and spoken) and Antony's Oration over dead
Caesar. The extracts from orations were chosen largely for their relation to great events in
history. There were Patrick Henry's "Speech before the Virginia Convention," Walpole's "Reproof
of Mr. Pitt," and Pitt's reply. Who cannot remember "The atrocious crime of being a young man,"
and go on with the context? Did you not commit it to memory and speak it?

[Literary Selections]

From the essayists there was Lamb's "Eulogy on Candle Light;" that delightful "Eulogy on Debt"
from an unknown author; Addison's "Allegory on Discontent," and "Westminster Abbey;" and Jane
Taylor's "Discontented Pendulum." Only seven selections were taken from the Bible; but one
of these was Paul's Defense before Agrippa. There were, however, quite a number of articles
of strongly religious tendency, like Dr. Spring's "Observance of the Sabbath."

The book contained two hundred and thirty-five selections and of this number nearly one-half
appeared in all subsequent revisions.

This Rhetorical Guide or Fifth Reader is the book that by its careful selection of specimens
of the best English literature in prose and verse contributed most to the training of its readers
toward the appreciation of true beauty in literature. It contained many pieces of solid and
continuous worth,--many that relate closely to the great historical eras of the United States.

[McGuffey's Ancestry]

In the latest revision of the highest reader, made in 1879, one hundred and thirty-eight selections
composed the book. Of this number sixty-one were in the original book as prepared by Mr. A.H.
McGuffey.

It was an admirable collection of much material that is still prized and which, when carefully
read by pupils hungry for thoughtful language, made a deep and lasting impression. In many
cases the inmost thought of the author may not have been at once fully apprehended by the young
readers; but with advancing years and wider experience in life the stored words became instinct
with thought and feeling.

THE AUTHORS.

Dr. William Holmes McGuffey was born September 28, 1800, on the southern border of Washington
county, Pa. The family descended from William and Anna (McKittrick) McGuffey who came from
Scotland, and landed at Philadelphia. They made a home in the southern part of York county,
at which, during the Revolution, General Washington often stopped to refresh himself. In 1789
this family removed to Washington county, Pa.

[The Indian Scouts]

Alexander McGuffey, the father of Dr. McGuffey, was six years old when the family came to America
in August, 1774. In 1790, when he was twenty-two years of age, he and his friend, Duncan McArthur,
afterward a governor of Ohio, were selected from five young men who volunteered to act as scouts
against the Indians in Ohio who were then threatening the frontier settlements in the western
part of Virginia and Pennsylvania. These two young men were selected after tests by Samuel
Brady to find which could run the fastest, shoot most accurately, and were least afraid of
Indians. Alexander McGuffey served in the army three years, venturing his life with small bodies
of scouts in the Indian country. He took part in several fights with the Indians. When General
St. Clair in 1792 marched north from Cincinnati to meet the Indians, this body of scouts was
one day concealed in a swamp near the spring of Castalia, Ohio. There they saw great numbers
of Indians passing to meet General St. Clair, and three of the scouts hastened through the
Indian country to inform the general. They traveled only at night and hid during the day. One
night they marched forty miles. They told General St. Clair what they had seen and again went
out to watch the collecting Indians. Three days later St. Clair was defeated. These scouts
were then twelve miles away but the retreating soldiers soon overtook them and then the "woods
were alive with Indians." The scouts turned eastward and in due time reached Logstown, near
Wheeling.

[Indian Warfare]

The next year McArthur, McGuffey and George Sutherland were again sent out by General Wayne
to spy the Indians. When only seven or eight miles from Wheeling and west of the Ohio river,
they came upon a trail which led to a deer lick. Just at dusk McGuffey, who was leading the
party, saw in the path the gaily decorated head-dress of an Indian. It had been placed there
by the Indians who were in ambush close by and were ready to shoot any white man who should
stop to pick it up. McGuffey saw through the stratagem instantly; without halting, he gave
it a kick and shouted "Indians!" Several Indians fired at once and one of the balls smashed
McGuffey's powder horn, and passed through his clothing, but did not wound him. The three scouts
retreated in safety, and the Indians did not follow them.

The wars with the Indians in that region closed in 1794, and Alexander McGuffey then married
Anna Holmes, of Washington county, and became a settler. His eldest son was William Holmes
McGuffey. When this son was but two years old the family moved to Trumbull county, Ohio. Here,
in the care of a pious mother and father, he spent the years of childhood and of early manhood,
performing the labors falling upon the eldest son in a large family of children dwelling in
a log cabin on the frontier. From the heavy forest, fields were cleared, fenced and cultivated,
roads were made and bridges were built, and in all these labors the sturdy son of the famous
Indian scout took part.

[A Frontier School]

During the first eighteen years of W.H. McGuffey's life he had no opportunities for education
other than those afforded by the brief winter schools supported by the voluntary subscriptions
of the parents in the neighborhood.

In 1802 Rev. Thos. Hughes, a Presbyterian clergyman, built at Darlington, Pa., the "Old Stone
Academy" for the education of young men, having obtained the necessary funds by traveling on
horseback throughout Pennsylvania and eastward even to Newburyport, Mass.

This seminary of learning was conducted on lines of the utmost economy to meet the needs of
the boys living on the frontier. The tuition was only three dollars a year and the charge for
board was seventy-five cents a week. The food was simple. For breakfast, bread, butter, and
coffee; for dinner, bread, meat, and sauce; for supper, bread and milk. The only variation
allowed in this bill of fare was the occasional omission of sauce or coffee.

[The Old Stone Academy]

