Further, between appetite and desire there is no difference, except that the term desire is
generally applied to men, in so far as they are conscious of their appetite, and may accordingly
be thus defined: "Desire is appetite with consciousness thereof."  It is thus plain from what
has been said, that in no case do we strive for, wish for, long for, or desire anything, because
we deem it to be good, but on the other hand we deem a thing to be good, because we strive
for it, wish for it, long for it, or desire it.

X. An idea, which excludes the existence of our body, cannot be postulated in our mind, but
is contrary thereto.

>>>>>Proof--Whatsoever can destroy our body, cannot be postulated therein (III. v.).  Therefore
neither can the idea of such a thing occur in God, in so far as he has the idea of our body
(II. ix. Cor.); that is (II. xi., xiii.), the idea of that thing cannot be postulated as in
our mind, but contrariwise, since (II. xi., xiii.) the first element, that constitutes the
essence of the mind, is the idea of the human body as actually existing, it follows that the
first and chief endeavour of our mind is the endeavour to affirm the existence of our body:
thus, an idea, which negatives the existence of our body, is contrary to our mind, &c.  Q.E.D.

XI. Whatsoever increases or diminishes, helps or hinders the power of activity in our body,
the idea thereof increases or diminishes, helps or hinders the power of thought in our mind.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is evident from II. vii. or from II. xiv.

*****Note--Thus we see, that the mind can undergo many changes, and can pass sometimes to a
state of greater perfection, sometimes to a state of lesser perfection.  These passive states
of transition explain to us the emotions of pleasure and pain.  By "pleasure" therefore in
the following propositions I shall signify "a passive state wherein the mind passes to a greater
perfection."  By "pain" I shall signify "a passive state wherein the mind passes to a lesser
perfection." Further, the emotion of pleasure in reference to the body and mind together I
shall call "stimulation" (titillatio) or "merriment" (hilaritas), the emotion of pain in the
same relation I shall call "suffering" or "melancholy."  But we must bear in mind, that stimulation
and suffering are attributed to man, when one part of his nature is more affected than the
rest, merriment and melancholy, when all parts are alike affected.  What I mean by desire I
have explained in the note to Prop. ix. of this part; beyond these three I recognize no other
primary emotion; I will show as I proceed, that all other emotions arise from these three.
But, before I go further, I should like here to explain at greater length Prop. x. of this
part, in order that we may clearly understand how one idea is contrary to another. In the note
to II. xvii. we showed that the idea, which constitutes the essence of mind, involves the existence
of body, so long as the body itself exists.  Again, it follows from what we pointed out in
the Corollary to II. viii., that the present existence of our mind depends solely on the fact,
that the mind involves the actual existence of the body.  Lastly, we showed (II. xvii., xviii.
and Note) that the power of the mind, whereby it imagines and remembers things, also depends
on the fact, that it involves the actual existence of the body.  Whence it follows, that the
present existence of the mind and its power of imagining are removed, as soon as the mind ceases
to affirm the present existence of the body.  Now the cause, why the mind ceases to affirm
this existence of the body, cannot be the mind itself (III. iv.), nor again the fact that the
body ceases to exist.  For (by II. vi.) the cause, why the mind affirms the existence of the
body, is not that the body began to exist; therefore, for the same reason, it does not cease
to affirm the existence of the body, because the body ceases to exist; but (II. xvii.) this
result follows from another idea, which excludes the present existence of our body and, consequently,
of our mind, and which is therefore contrary to the idea constituting the essence of our mind.

XII. Note), conceives it, the human body is affected in a mode, which involves the nature of
the said external body; thus so long as the mind conceives things, which increase or help the
power of activity in our body, the body is affected in modes which increase or help its power
of activity (III. Post. i.); consequently (III. xi.) the mind's power of thinking is for that
period increased or helped.  Thus (III. vi., ix.) the mind, as far as it can, endeavours to
imagine such things.  Q.E.D.

XIII. When the mind conceives things which diminish or hinder the body's power of activity,
it endeavours, as far as possible, to remember things which exclude the existence of the first-named
things.

>>>>>Proof--So long as the mind conceives anything of the kind alluded to, the power of the
mind and body is diminished or constrained (cf. III. xii. Proof); nevertheless it will continue
to conceive it, until the mind conceives something else, which excludes the present existence
thereof (II. xvii.); that is (as I have just shown), the power of the mind and of the body
is diminished, or constrained, until the mind conceives something else, which excludes the
existence of the former thing conceived:  therefore the mind (III. ix.), as far as it can,
will endeavour to conceive or remember the latter. Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--Hence it follows that the mind shrinks from conceiving those things, which
diminish or constrain the power of itself and of the body.

*****Note--From what has been said we may clearly understand the nature of Love and Hate. 
"Love" is nothing else but "pleasure accompanied by the idea of an external cause."  We further
see, that he who loves necessarily endeavours to have, and to keep present to him, the object
of his love; while he who hates endeavours to remove and destroy the object of his hatred.
But I will treat of these matters at more length hereafter.

XIV. If the mind has once been affected by two emotions at the same time, it will, whenever
it is afterwards affected by one of these two, be also affected by the other.

>>>>>Proof--If the human body has once been affected by two bodies at once, whenever afterwards
the mind conceives one of them, it will straightway remember the other also (II. xviii.). 
But the mind's conceptions indicate rather the emotions of our body than the nature of external
bodies (II. xvi. Cor. ii.); therefore, if the body, and consequently the mind (III. Def. iii.)
has been once affected by two emotions at the same time, it will, whenever it is afterwards
affected by one of the two, be also affected by the other.

XV. Anything can, accidentally, be the cause of pleasure, pain, or desire.

>>>>>Proof--Let it be granted that the mind is simultaneously affected by two emotions, of
which one neither increases nor diminishes its power of activity, and the other does either
increase or diminish the said power (III. Post. i.).  From the foregoing proposition it is
evident that, whenever the mind is afterwards affected by the former, through its true cause,
which (by hypothesis) neither increases nor diminishes its power of action, it will be at the
same time affected by the latter, which does increase or diminish its power of activity, that
is (III. xi. note) it will be affected with pleasure or pain.  Thus the former of the two emotions
will, not through itself, but accidentally, be the cause of pleasure or pain.  In the same
way also it can be easily shown, that a thing may be accidentally the cause of desire.  Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--Simply from the fact that we have regarded a thing with the emotion of pleasure
or pain, though that thing be not the efficient cause of the emotion, we can either love or
hate it.

>>>>>Proof--For from this fact alone it arises (III. xiv.), that the mind afterwards conceiving
the said thing is affected with the emotion of pleasure or pain, that is (III. xi. note), according
as the power of the mind and body may be increased or diminished, &c.; and consequently (III.
xii.), according as the mind may desire or shrink from the conception of it (III. xiii. Cor.),
in other words (III. xiii. note), according as it may love or hate the same. Q.E.D.

*****Note--Hence we understand how it may happen, that we love or hate a thing without any
cause for our emotion being known to us; merely, as a phrase is, from "sympathy" or "antipathy."
We should refer to the same category those objects, which affect us pleasurably or painfully,
simply because they resemble other objects which affect us in the same way.  This I will show
in the next Prop.  I am aware that certain authors, who were the first to introduce these terms
"sympathy" and "antipathy," wished to signify thereby some occult qualities in things; nevertheless
I think we may be permitted to use the same terms to indicate known or manifest qualities.

XVI. Simply from the fact that we conceive, that a given object has some point of resemblance
with another object which is wont to affect the mind pleasurably or painfully, although the
point of resemblance be not the efficient cause of the said emotions, we shall still regard
the first-named object with love or hate.

>>>>>Proof--The point of resemblance was in the object (by hypothesis), when we regarded it
with pleasure or pain, thus (III. xiv.), when the mind is affected by the image thereof, it
will straightway be affected by one or the other emotion, and consequently the thing, which
we perceive to have the same point of resemblance, will be accidentally (III. xv.) a cause
of pleasure or pain.  Thus (by the foregoing Corollary), although the point in which the two
objects resemble one another be not the efficient cause of the emotion, we shall still regard
the first-named object with love or hate.  Q.E.D.

XVII. If we conceive that a thing, which is wont to affect us painfully, has any point of resemblance
with another thing which is wont to affect us with an equally strong emotion of pleasure, we
shall hate the first-named thing, and at the same time we shall love it.

>>>>>Proof--The given thing is (by hypothesis) in itself a cause of pain, and (III. xiii. note),
in so far as we imagine it with this emotion, we shall hate it:  further, inasmuch as we conceive
that it has some point of resemblance to something else, which is wont to affect us with an
equally strong emotion of pleasure, we shall with an equally strong impulse of pleasure love
it (III. xvi.); thus we shall both hate and love the same thing.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--This disposition of the mind, which arises from two contrary emotions, is called
"vacillation"; it stands to the emotions in the same relation as doubt does to the imagination
(II. xliv. note); vacillation and doubt do not differ one from the other, except as greater
differs from less.  But we must bear in mind that I have deduced this vacillation from causes,
which give rise through themselves to one of the emotions, and to the other accidentally. I
have done this, in order that they might be more easily deduced from what went before; but
I do not deny that vacillation of the disposition generally arises from an object, which is
the efficient cause of both emotions.  The human body is composed (II. Post. i.) of a variety
of individual parts of different nature, and may therefore (Ax. i. after Lemma iii. after II.
xiii.) be affected in a variety of different ways by one and the same body; and contrariwise,
as one and the same thing can be affected in many ways, it can also in many different ways
affect one and the same part of the body.  Hence we can easily conceive, that one and the same
object may be the cause of many and conflicting emotions.

XVIII. A man is as much affected pleasurably or painfully by the image of a thing past or future
as by the image of a thing present.

>>>>>Proof--So long as a man is affected by the image of anything, he will regard that thing
as present, even though it be non-existent (II. xvii. and Cor.), he will not conceive it as
past or future, except in so far as its image is joined to the image of time past or future
(II. xliv. note).  Wherefore the image of a thing, regarded in itself alone, is identical,
whether it be referred to time past, time future, or time present; that is (II. xvi. Cor.),
the disposition or emotion of the body is identical, whether the image be of a thing past or
future.  Q.E.D.

*****Note I.--I call a thing past or future, according as we either have been or shall be affected
thereby.  For instance, according as we have seen it, or are about to see it, according as
it has recreated us, or will recreate us, according as it has harmed us, or will harm us. 
For, as we thus conceive it, we affirm its existence; that is, the body is affected by no emotion
which excludes the existence of the thing, and therefore (II. xvii.) the body is affected by
the image of the thing, in the same way as if the thing were actually present.

*****Note II.--From what has just been said, we understand what is meant by the terms Hope,
Fear, Confidence, Despair, Joy, and Disappointment.  "Hope" is nothing else but "an inconstant
pleasure, arising from the image of something future or past, whereof we do not yet know the
issue."  "Fear," on the other hand, is "an inconstant pain also arising from the image of something
concerning which we are in doubt."  If the element of doubt be removed from these emotions,
hope becomes "Confidence" and fear becomes "Despair." In other words, "Pleasure or Pain arising
from the image of something concerning which we have hoped or feared."  Again, "Joy" is "Pleasure
arising from the image of something past whereof we have doubted the issue."  "Disappointment"
is "the Pain opposed to Joy."

XIX. He who conceives that the object of his love is destroyed will feel pain; if he conceives
that it is preserved he will feel pleasure.

>>>>>Proof--The mind, as far as possible, endeavours to conceive those things which increase
or help the body's power of activity (III. xii.); in other words (III. xii. note), those things
which it loves.  But conception is helped by those things which postulate the existence of
a thing, and contrariwise is hindered by those which exclude the existence of a thing (II.
xvii.); therefore the images of things, which postulate the existence of an object of love,
help the mind's endeavour to conceive the object of love, in other words (III. xi. note), affect
the mind pleasurably; contrariwise those things, which exclude the existence of an object of
love, hinder the aforesaid mental endeavour; in other words, affect the mind painfully.  He,
therefore, who conceives that the object of his love is destroyed will feel pain, &c.  Q.E.D.

XX. He who conceives that the object of his hate is destroyed will also feel pleasure.

>>>>>Proof--The mind (III. xiii.) endeavours to conceive those things, which exclude the existence
of things whereby the body's power of activity is diminished or constrained; that is (III.
xiii. note), it endeavours to conceive such things as exclude the existence of what it hates;
therefore the image of a thing, which excludes the existence of what the mind hates, helps
the aforesaid mental effort, in other words (III. xi. note), affects the mind pleasurably.
Thus he who conceives that the object of his hate is destroyed will feel pleasure.  Q.E.D.

XXI.  But pleasure postulates the existence of something feeling pleasure, so much the more
in proportion as the emotion of pleasure is greater; for it is (III. xi. note) a transition
to a greater perfection; therefore the image of pleasure in the object of love helps the mental
endeavour of the lover; that is, it affects the lover pleasurably, and so much the more, in
proportion as this emotion may have been greater in the object of love.  This was our first
point. Further, in so far as a thing is affected with pain, it is to that extent destroyed,
the extent being in proportion to the amount of pain (III. xi. note); therefore (III. xix.)
he who conceives, that the object of his love is affected painfully, will himself be affected
painfully, in proportion as the said emotion is greater or less in the object of love.  Q.E.D.

XXII. If we conceive that anything pleasurably affects some object of our love, we shall be
affected with love towards that thing.  Contrariwise, if we conceive that it affects an object
of our love painfully, we shall be affected with hatred towards it.

>>>>>Proof--He, who affects pleasurably or painfully the object of our love, affects us also
pleasurably or painfully--that is, if we conceive the loved object as affected with the said
pleasure or pain (III. xxi.). But this pleasure or pain is postulated to come to us accompanied
by the idea of an external cause; therefore (III. xiii. note), if we conceive that anyone affects
an object of our love pleasurably or painfully, we shall be affected with love or hatred towards
him.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--Prop. xxi. explains to us the nature of 'Pity,' which we may define as 'pain arising
from another's hurt.'  What term we can use for pleasure arising from another's gain, I know not.

We will call the 'love towards him who confers a benefit on another,' 'Approval;' and the 'hatred
towards him who injures another,' we will call 'Indignation.'  We must further remark, that
we not only feel pity for a thing which we have loved (as shown in III. xxi.), but also for
a thing which we have hitherto regarded without emotion, provided that we deem that it resembles
ourselves (as I will show presently).  Thus, we bestow approval on one who has benefited anything
resembling ourselves, and, contrariwise, are indignant with him who has done it an injury.

XXIII. He who conceives, that an object of his hatred is painfully affected, will feel pleasure.
Contrariwise, if he thinks that the said object is pleasurably affected, he will feel pain.
Each of these emotions will be greater or less, according as its contrary is greater or less
in the object of hatred.

>>>>>Proof--In so far as an object of hatred is painfully affected, it is destroyed, to an
extent proportioned to the strength of the pain (III. xi. note).  Therefore, he (III. xx.)
who conceives, that some object of his hatred is painfully affected, will feel pleasure, to
an extent proportioned to the amount of pain he conceives in the object of his hatred.  This
was our first point.  Again, pleasure postulates the existence of the pleasurably affected
thing (III. xi. note), in proportion as the pleasure is greater or less.  If anyone imagines
that an object of his hatred is pleasurably affected, this conception (III. xiii.) will hinder
his own endeavour to persist; in other words (III. xi. note), he who hates will be painfully
affected.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--This pleasure can scarcely be felt unalloyed, and without any mental conflict. 
For (as I am about to show in Prop. xxvii.), in so far as a man conceives that something similar
to himself is affected by pain, he will himself be affected in like manner; and he will have
the contrary emotion in contrary circumstances.  But here we are regarding hatred only.

XXIV. If we conceive that anyone pleasurably affects an object of our hate, we shall feel hatred
towards him also.  If we conceive that he painfully affects that said object, we shall feel
love towards him.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is proved in the same way as III. xxii., which see.

*****Note--These and similar emotions of hatred are attributable to 'envy,' which, accordingly,
is nothing else but 'hatred, in so far as it is regarded as disposing a man to rejoice in another's
hurt, and to grieve at another's advantage.'

XXV. We endeavour to affirm, concerning ourselves, and concerning what we love, everything
that we can conceive to affect pleasurably ourselves, or the loved object. Contrariwise, we
endeavour to negative everything, which we conceive to affect painfully ourselves or the loved
object.

>>>>>Proof--That, which we conceive to affect an object of our love pleasurably or painfully,
affects us also pleasurably or painfully (III. xxi.).  But the mind (III. xii.) endeavours,
as far as possible, to conceive those things which affect us pleasurably; in other words (II.
xvii. and Cor.), it endeavours to regard them as present.  And, contrariwise (III. xiii.),
it endeavours to exclude the existence of such things as affect us painfully; therefore, we
endeavour to affirm concerning ourselves, and concerning the loved object, whatever we conceive
to affect ourselves, or the love object pleasurably. Q.E.D.

XXVI. We endeavour to affirm, concerning that which we hate, everything which we conceive to
affect it painfully; and, contrariwise, we endeavour to deny, concerning it, everything which
we conceive to affect it pleasurably.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition follows from III. xxiii., as the foregoing proposition followed
from III. xxi.

*****Note--Thus we see that it may readily happen, that a man may easily think too highly of
himself, or a loved object, and, contrariwise, too meanly of a hated object.  This feeling
is called 'pride,' in reference to the man who thinks too highly of himself, and is a species
of madness, wherein a man dreams with his eyes open, thinking that he can accomplish all things
that fall within the scope of his conception, and thereupon accounting them real, and exulting
in them, so long as he is unable to conceive anything which excludes their existence, and determines
his own power of action.  'Pride,' therefore, is 'pleasure springing from a man thinking too
highly of himself.' Again, the 'pleasure which arises from a man thinking too highly of another'
is called 'over-esteem.'  Whereas the 'pleasure which arises from thinking too little of a
man' is called 'disdain.'

XXVII. By the very fact that we conceive a thing, which is like ourselves, and which we have
not regarded with any emotion, to be affected with any emotion, we are ourselves affected with
a like emotion (affectus).

>>>>>Proof--The images of things are modifications of the human body, whereof the ideas represent
external bodies as present to us (II. xvii.); in other words (II. x.), whereof the ideas involve
the nature of our body, and, at the same time, the nature of the external bodies as present.
If, therefore, the nature of the external body be similar to the nature of our body, then the
idea which we form of the external body will involve a modification of our own body similar
to the modification of the external body.  Consequently, if we conceive anyone similar to ourselves
as affected by any emotion, this conception will express a modification of our body similar
to that emotion.  Thus, from the fact of conceiving a thing like ourselves to be affected with
any emotion, we are ourselves affected with a like emotion. If, however, we hate the said thing
like ourselves, we shall, to that extent, be affected by a contrary, and not similar, emotion.
Q.E.D.

*****Note I--This imitation of emotions, when it is referred to pain, is called "compassion"
(cf. III. xxii. note); when it is referred to desire, it is called "emulation," which is nothing
else but "the desire of anything, engendered in us by the fact that we conceive that others
have the like desire."

<<<<<Corollary I--If we conceive that anyone, whom we have hitherto regarded with no emotion,
pleasurably affects something similar to ourselves, we shall be affected with love towards
him.  If, on the other hand, we conceive that he painfully affects the same, we shall be affected
with hatred towards him.

>>>>>Proof--This is proved from the last proposition in the same manner as III. xxii. is proved
from III. xxi.

<<<<<Corollary II--We cannot hate a thing which we pity, because its misery affects us painfully.

>>>>>Proof--If we could hate it for this reason, we should rejoice in its pain, which is contrary
to the hypothesis.

<<<<<Corollary III--We seek to free from misery, as far as we can, a thing which we pity.

>>>>>Proof--That, which painfully affects the object of our pity, affects us also with similar
pain (by the foregoing proposition); therefore, we shall endeavour to recall everything which
removes its existence, or which destroys it (cf. III. xiii.); in other words (III. ix. note),
we shall desire to destroy it, or we shall be determined for its destruction; thus, we shall
endeavour to free from misery a thing which we pity.  Q.E.D.

*****Note II--This will or appetite for doing good, which arises from pity of the thing whereon
we would confer a benefit, is called "benevolence," and is nothing else but "desire arising
from compassion."  Concerning love or hate towards him who has done good or harm to something,
which we conceive to be like ourselves, see III. xxii. note.

XXVIII. We endeavour to bring about whatsoever we conceive to conduce to pleasure; but we endeavour
to remove or destroy whatsoever we conceive to be truly repugnant thereto, or to conduce to pain.

>>>>>Proof--We endeavour, as far as possible, to conceive that which we imagine to conduce
to pleasure (III. xii.); in other words (II. xvii.) we shall endeavour to conceive it as far
as possible as present or actually existing.  But the endeavour of the mind, or the mind's
power of thought, is equal to, and simultaneous with, the endeavour of the body, or the body's
power of action.  (This is clear from II. vii. Cor. and II. xi. Cor.).  Therefore we make an
absolute endeavour for its existence, in other words (which by III. ix., note, come to the
same thing) we desire and strive for it; this was our first point. Again, if we conceive that
something, which we believed to be the cause of pain, that is (III. xiii. note), which we hate,
is destroyed, we shall rejoice (III. xx.).  We shall, therefore (by the first part of this
proof), endeavour to destroy the same, or (III. xiii.) to remove it from us, so that we may
not regard it as present; this was our second point.  Wherefore whatsoever conduces to pleasure,
&c.  Q.E.D.

XXIX. We shall also endeavour to do whatsoever we conceive men* to regard with pleasure, and
contrariwise we shall shrink from doing that which we conceive men to shrink from.

[*N.B. By "men" in this and the following propositions, I mean men whom we regard without any
particular emotion.]

>>>>>Proof--From the fact of imagining, that men love or hate anything, we shall love or hate
the same thing (III. xxvii.). That is (III. xiii. note), from this mere fact we shall feel
pleasure or pain at the thing's presence.  And so we shall endeavour to do whatsoever we conceive
men to love or regard with pleasure, etc.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--This endeavour to do a thing or leave it undone, solely in order to please men,
we call "ambition," especially when we so eagerly endeavour to please the vulgar, that we do
or omit certain things to our own or another's hurt:  in other cases it is generally called
"kindliness."  Furthermore I give the name of "praise" to the "pleasure, with which we conceive
the action of another, whereby he has endeavoured to please us"; but of "blame" to the "pain
wherewith we feel aversion to his action."

XXX. If anyone has done something which he conceives as affecting other men pleasurably, he
will be affected by pleasure, accompanied by the idea of himself as cause; in other words,
he will regard himself with pleasure.  And so "mutatis mutandis" in the case of pain.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--As love (III. xiii.) is pleasure accompanied by the idea of an external cause, and
hatred is pain accompanied by the idea of an external cause; the pleasure and pain in question
will be a species of love and hatred.  But, as the terms love and hatred are used in reference
to external objects, we will employ other names for the emotions now under discussion: pleasure
accompanied by the idea of an external cause we will style "Honour," and the emotion contrary
thereto we will style "Shame":  I mean in such cases as where pleasure or pain arises from
a man's belief, that he is being praised or blamed: otherwise pleasure accompanied by the idea
of an external cause is called "self-complacency," and its contrary pain is called "repentance."
Again, as it may happen (II. xvii. Cor.) that the pleasure, wherewith a man conceives that
he affects others, may exist solely in his own imagination, and as (III. xxv.) everyone endeavours
to conceive concerning himself that which he conceives will affect him with pleasure, it may
easily come to pass that a vain man may be proud and may imagine that he is pleasing to all,
when in reality he may be an annoyance to all.

XXXI. If we conceive that anyone loves, desires, or hates anything which we ourselves love,
desire, or hate, we shall thereupon regard the thing in question with more steadfast love,
&c.  On the contrary, if we think that anyone shrinks from something that we love, we shall
undergo vacillations of soul.

>>>>>Proof--From the mere fact of conceiving that anyone loves anything we shall ourselves
love that thing (III. xxvii.): but we are assumed to love it already; there is, therefore,
a new cause of love, whereby our former emotion is fostered; hence we shall thereupon love
it more steadfastly.  Again, from the mere fact of conceiving that anyone shrinks from anything,
we shall ourselves shrink from that thing (III. xxvii.). If we assume that we at the same time
love it, we shall then simultaneously love it and shrink from it; in other words, we shall
be subject to vacillation (III. xvii. note).  Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--From the foregoing, and also from III. xxviii. it follows that everyone endeavours,
as far as possible, to cause others to love what he himself loves, and to hate what he himself
hates:  as the poet* says:  "As lover let us share every hope and every fear:  ironhearted
were he who should love what the other leaves."** [* Ovid, "Amores," II. xix.

XXXII. If we conceive that anyone takes delight in something, which only one person can possess,
we shall endeavour to bring it about that the man in question shall not gain possession thereof.

>>>>>Proof--From the mere fact of our conceiving that another person takes delight in a thing
(III. xxvii. and Cor.) we shall ourselves love that thing and desire to take delight therein.
But we assumed that the pleasure in question would be prevented by another's delight in its
object; we shall, therefore, endeavour to prevent his possession thereof (III. xxviii.).  Q.E.D.

