I cabled to the Department of State asking permission to make the indorsements (a thing hitherto
expressly forbidden by the instructions to diplomatic officers), and explaining that I would
take in each case the best security obtainable, whether in the form of a draft on a letter
of credit or a personal note of hand with satisfactory references, and that no money should
be drawn except for necessary living expenses and the cost of the journey home. The answer
came promptly: "You have the authority to indorse."

So a system of international banking between two Governments was introduced. I believe it was
absolutely a new plan. But it worked.

Then another idea occurred to me. The letters of credit were usually drawn on London or Paris.
In both cities a moratorium was on. Why not make the drafts directly on New York? Why not call
on the signer of the letter of credit for the money instead of calling on the addressee? This
would cut out any possibility of difficulty from the moratorium.

This also was a new method. But it seemed reasonable. We tried it. And it worked. A visiting
committee of New York bankers to whom I related this experience later laughed immensely. They
also made some remarks about "amateurs" and "audacity" which I would rather not repeat. But
upon the whole they did not seem shocked beyond recovery.

So it happened, by good fortune, that there was never a day in The Hague when an American fugitive
from the war, homeward bound, could not obtain what cash he needed for him to live and to get
to the United States. But not money to buy souvenir spoons, or old furniture and pictures.
"Very sorry," we explained, "but our Government is not dealing in antiquities at present. It
is simply helping you to get home as quickly and comfortably as possible. Please tell us how
much money you need for board and passage-money and you shall have it."

Except three or four chronic growlers and a few passionate antiquarian ladies, everybody took
it good-humoredly and cheerfully. I think they understood, though not always clearly, that
our Government was doing more for its citizens caught out in a tempest than any other government
in the world would have done.

When the Tennessee arrived in the latter part of August with $2,500,000 in gold for the same
purpose, it was another illustration of our Government's parental care and forethought. We
received our share of this gold at The Hague. The first use we made of part of it was to take
up the American checks and drafts on which the Bank of the Netherlands had advanced the money.
Then we sent the paper to America for collection and repayment to the National Treasury. I
have not the accounts here and cannot speak by the book, but I think I am not far out in saying
that our loss on these transactions was less than five per cent of the total amount handled.
And we banked for some very poor people, too!

I never had any idea, before the war broke out, how many of our countrymen and countrywomen
there are roaming about Europe every summer, and with what a cheerful trust in Providence and
utter disregard of needful papers and precautions some of them roam! There were young women
travelling alone or in groups of two or three. There were old men so feeble that one's first
thought on seeing them was: "How did you get away from your nurse?" There were people with
superfluous funds, and people with barely enough funds, and people with no funds at all. There
were college boys who had worked their way over and couldn't find a chance to work it back.
There were art-students and music-students whose resources had given out.

There was a very rich woman, plastered with diamonds, who demanded the free use of my garage
for the storage of her automobile. When I explained that, to my profound regret, it was impossible,
because three American guest cars were already stored there and the place could hold no more,
she flounced out of the room in high dudgeon.

There was a lady of a different type who came to say, very modestly, that she had a balance
in a bank at The Hague which she wanted to leave to my order for use in helping people who
were poor and deserving. "Please make as sure as you can of the poverty," said she, "but take
a chance, now and then, on the deserts. We can't confine our kindness to saints." This gift
amounted to two or three thousand dollars, and was the foundation of the Minister's private
benevolence fund, which proved so useful in later days and of which a remnant has been left
for my successor.

An American wrote to us from a little village in a remote province of the Netherlands saying
that his remittances from home had not arrived and that he was penniless. He added by way of
personal description: "My social position is that of a Catholic priest with nervous prostration."
We helped him and he proved to be all right.

A rising comic-opera star, of engaging appearance and manners (American), who was under a temporary
financial obscuration because her company in Holland had broken up, came to ask us to assist
her in getting to Germany, where she had friends and hoped to find work. We did it with alacrity.
Then she wrote asking us to forward certain legal papers in connection with a divorce which
she contemplated. We did it. Then she sent us some of her newspaper articles and a lot of clippings
from German journals, requesting us to transmit them in the Legation pouch to America. This
we politely declined, with the plea of "non possumus". Whereupon she was furious and denounced
us to the German authorities and the German-American press.

An American lady whose husband was dying in Hamburg came in desperate distress with her daughter,
to beg us to aid them in getting to him. We found the only way that was open, a little-known
route through the northeast corner of Holland, procured the necessary permits, and enabled
the wife and daughter to reach his bedside before he died.

A poor woman (with a nice little baby), husband, a naturalized American, was "somewhere in
Argentina," wanted to go to his family in one of the northwestern States. She had no money.
We paid her expenses in The Hague until we could get into communication with the family, and
then sent her home rejoicing.

These are a few examples of the ever-recurring humor and pathos which touched our incessant
grind of peace work in war times at The Hague. Thousands and thousands of Americans, real or
presumptive, passed through the Legation--all sorts and conditions of men, asking for all kinds
of things.

Our house was transformed into an Inquiry Office and a Bureau for First Aid to the Injured.
There was often a dense throng outside the front door, filling the street and  reaching over
into the park. Two Dutch boy scouts, capital fellows in khaki, volunteered their assistance
in keeping order, and stood guard at the entrance giving out numbered tickets of admission
so that the house would not be choked and all the work stopped.

You see, Holland was the narrow neck of the bottle, and the incredible multitudes of Americans
who were scattered about in Germany, Austria, Russia, and parts of Switzerland, came pouring
out our way. There was no end to the extra work. Many a night I did not get my clothes off,
but took a bath and breakfast in the morning and went ahead with the next day's business. No
eight-hour day in that establishment!

It would have been impossible to hold on and keep going but for the devotion and industry of
the entire Legation staff, and the splendid aid of the volunteers who came to help us through.
Professor George Grafton Wilson, of Harvard, was our Counsellor in International Law. Professor
Philip M. Brown, of Princeton, former Minister to Honduras, gave his valuable service. Professor
F. J. Moore, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, took charge of the registration
bureau. Hon. Charles H. Sherrill, former Ambassador to the Argentine, and Charles Edward Russell,
the Socialist, and his wife, were among our best workers. Alexander R. Gulick was at the head
of the busy correspondence department. Van Santvoord Merle-Smith, Evans Hubbard, and my son
ran the banking department. These are only a few names among the many good men and women who
helped their country for love.

My library was the Diplomatic Office, to which the despatches and the passports came; the Conference
Chamber, where all vexed questions were discussed and decided; the Court of Appeal, where people
who thought they had not received fair treatment could present their complaints; and the Consolation
Room, where the really distressed, as well as the slightly hysterical, came to tell their troubles.
Some of them were tragic and some comic. The most agitated and frightened persons were among
the fat commercial men. The women, as a rule, were fine and steady and cheerful, especially
the American-born. They met the adventure with good sense and smiling faces; asked with commendable
brevity for the best advice or service that we could give them; and usually took the advice
and were more grateful for the service than it deserved.

So the days rolled on, full of infinitely varied cares and labors; and every afternoon, about
five o'clock, the whole staff with a dozen or a score of our passing friends, went out under
the spreading chestnut-tree in the back garden for a half-hour of tea and talk. It was all
very peaceful and democratic. We were in neutral, friendly Holland. The big, protecting shield
of "Uncle Sam" was over us, and we felt safe.

III

Yet how near, how fearful, was the fierce reality of the unpardonable war! Belgium was invaded
by the Germans, an hour or two away from us. At any moment their troops might be tempted to
take the short cut through the narrow strip of Dutch territory which runs so far down into
Belgium; and then the neutrality of Holland would be gone! The little country would be part
of the battle-field. Holland has always been resolved to fight any invader.

All through August and September, 1914, that fear hung over the Dutch people. It recurred later
again and again--whenever a movement of German troops came too close to the borders of Holland;
whenever a newspaper tale of impending operations transpired from Berlin or London. Once or
twice the anxiety rose almost to a popular panic. But I noticed that even then the stock-market
at Amsterdam remained calm. Now, the Dutch are a very prudent folk, especially the bankers.
Therefore I concluded that somebody had received strong assurances both from Germany and Great
Britain that neither would invade the Netherlands provided the other abstained.

But all the time there was that dreadful example of the "scrap of paper"--the treaty which
had been no protection for Belgium--to shake confidence in any pledge of Germany. And all the
time the news from just beyond the border grew more and more horrible. Towns and villages were
looted and burned. Civilians were massacred; women outraged; children brought to death. Heavy
fines and ransoms were imposed for slight or imaginary offenses. (They amounted to more than
$40,000,000 in addition to the "war contribution" exacted, which by August, 1917, had reached
$288,000,000.) Churches were ruined. Priests were shot. The country was stripped and laid waste.
All the scruples and rules by which men had sought to moderate the needless cruelties of war
were mocked and flung aside. Ruin marked the track of the German troops, and terror ran before
their advance.

On August 19 Aerschot was sacked and 150 of its inhabitants killed. On the 20th Andenne met
the same fate and the number of the slain was 250. On the 23d Dinant was wrecked and more than
600 men and women were murdered. On the 25th the university library at Louvain was set on fire
and burned. The pillage and devastation of the city and its environs continued for ten days.
More than 2,000 houses were destroyed, and more than 100 civilians were butchered. Time would
fail me to tell of the industrious little towns and the quaint Old World hamlets that were
wrecked, or of the men and women and young children who were tortured, and had trial of mockings
and bonds and imprisonment, and were slain by the sword and by fire. Is it not all set down
by sworn witnesses in the great gray book of the Kingdom of Belgium, and in the blue book of
the committee of which Lord Bryce was the head? Have I not heard with my own ears the agony
of those whose parents were shot down before their eyes, whose children were slain or ravished,
whose wives or husbands were carried into captivity, whose homes were made desolate, and who
themselves barely escaped with their lives?

Find an explanation for these Belgian atrocities if you can. What if a few shots were fired
by ignorant and infuriated civilians from the windows of houses? It has not been proved. But
even if it were, it would be no reason for the martyrdom of a whole population, for the destruction
of distant and unincriminated towns, for the massacre of evidently innocent persons.

Was it the drink found in the cellars of the houses that made the German officers and soldiers
mad? Perhaps so. But that makes the case no better. It was stolen drink.

Was it the carrying out of the cold-blooded policy of "frightfulness" as a necessary weapon
of war? That is the wickedest excuse of all. It is really an accusation. The probable truth
of it is supported by what happened later, when the Germans came to Poland, and when the Turks,
their allies and pupils in the art of war, slaughtered 800,000 Armenians or drove them to a
slow, painful death. It means just what the title of this article says. The Werwolf was at large.

The first evidence of this spirit in the German conduct of the war that came to my personal
knowledge was on August 25. Two or three days before, our American Consul-General in Antwerp,
which was still the temporary seat of the Belgian Government, had written to me saying that
he was absolutely destitute and begging me to send him some money for the relief of his family
and other Americans who were in dire need. The Tennessee was lying off the Hook of Holland
at that time, and there were several of our splendid army officers ready and eager for any
service. One of the best of them, Captain Williams, offered himself as messenger, and I sent
him in to Antwerp, with three thousand dollars in gold in a belt around his waist, on August
24. He had a hard, slow journey, but he went through and delivered the money.

That very night, while he was in the city, a Zeppelin air-ship, the first of its devilish tribe
to get into action, sailed over sleeping Antwerp dropping bombs. No military damage was done.
But hundreds of private houses were damaged and sixty destroyed. One bomb fell on a hospital
full of wounded Belgians and Germans. Scores of innocent civilians, mostly women and children,
were killed. "In a single house," writes an eye-witness, "I found four dead: one room was a
chamber of horrors, the remains of the mangled bodies being scattered in every direction."

Mark the exact nature of this crime. The dropping of bombs from aircraft is not technically
illegal. The agreement of the nations to abandon and prohibit this method of attack for five
years unfortunately expired by limitation of time in 1912 and was not renewed. But the old-established
rules of war among civilized nations have forbidden and still forbid the bombardment of populous
towns without due notice, in order that the non-combatants may have a chance to find refuge
and safety. This German monster of the air came unannounced, in the dead of night, and, having
wrought its hellish surprise, vanished into the darkness again. This was a crime against international
law as well as a sin against humanity.

My captain returned to The Hague the next morning, bringing his report. He had seen the horror
with his own eyes. More: with the care of a true officer he had made a map of the course taken
by the air-ship in its flight over the city. That map showed beyond a doubt that the aim of
the marauder was to destroy the principal hospital, the hotel where the Belgian Ministers lived,
and the palace in which the King and Queen with their children were sleeping.

I cabled the facts to Washington at once, and sent the map with a fuller report the next day.
I felt deeply (and ventured to express my feeling) that the United States could, and ought
to, protest against this clear violation of the law of nations--this glaring manifestation
of a spirit which was going to make this war the most cruel and atrocious known to history.
The foreboding of a return to barbarism has been fulfilled, alas, only too abominably!

In every step of that downward path Germany has led the way, by the perfection of her scientific
methods applied to a devilish purpose.

Take, for example, the use of poisonous gas in warfare. This was an ancient weapon, employed
long before the beginning of the Christian era. It had been abandoned by civilized nations,
and was prohibited by one of the Hague conventions, for a period of five years. But that period
having expired, and the convention being only a "scrap of paper," Germany revived the ancient
deviltry in a more scientific form. On April 22, 1915, she sent the yellow clouds of death
rolling down upon the trenches of Ypres, where the British defended the last city of outraged
Belgium. The suffocating horrors of that hellish method of attack are beyond description. The
fame of this achievement of spectacled barbarism belongs to the learned servants of the predatory
Potsdam gang. But we cannot blame the Allies if they were forced reluctantly to take up the
same weapon in self-defense.

IV

The real character and the inhuman effect of the German invasion were brought home to us, and
made painfully clear to our eyes and our hearts, by the amazing tragic spectacle of the flood
of refugees pouring out of Belgium.

It began slowly. When the quaint frontier town of Vise, surrounded by its goose-farms, was
attacked and set on fire on August 4, there were many families from the neighborhood who fled
to Holland. When Liege was captured on the 7th after a brave defense, and its last fort fell
on the 15th, there were more fugitives. When Brussels was occupied without resistance on the
20th there were still more. As the invasion spread westward and southward, engulfing city after
city in widening waves of blood, the tide of terror and flight rose steadily. It reached its
high-water mark when Antwerp, after the Germans had pounded its outer and inner circle of forts
for nine days, was bombarded on October 7 and captured on the 18th.

Nothing like that sad, fear-smitten exodus has been seen on earth in modern times. There was
something in it at once fateful, trembling, and irresistible, which recalled De Quincey's famous
story of The Flight of a Tartar Tribe. No barrier on the Holland border could have kept that
flood of Belgian refugees out. They were an enormous flock of sheep and lambs, harried by the
Werwolf and fleeing for their lives.

But Holland did not want a barrier. She stood with open doors and arms, offering an asylum
to the distressed and persecuted.

I do not believe that any country has ever made a better record of wise, steady, and true humanitarian
work than Holland made in this matter. It is not necessary to exaggerate it. Naturally, Belgium
and Great Britain bore by far the largest part of the financial burden of caring for the refugees.
Regular subsidies were guaranteed for this purpose. But Holland gave freely and generously
what was more important: a prompt and sufficient welcome and shelter from the storm; abundant
supplies of money for immediate needs, food and clothing, a roof and a fire; personal aid and
care, nursing, medical attendance--all of which these bewildered exiles needed desperately
and at once.

This is not the place, nor the time, in which to attempt a full report of the humane task which
was suddenly thrown upon Holland by the deadly doings of the German Werwolf in Belgium, nor
of the way in which that task was accepted and carried out. I shall note only a few things
of which I have personal knowledge.

Going along the railway line which leads to Antwerp, I saw every train literally packed with
fugitives. They had come, not in organized, orderly companies, but in droves--tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands. They were dazed and confused, escaping from they knew not what, carried
they knew not whither. It is well for the poet to say:

  "Be not like dumb, driven cattle";

but what can you do in a case like this except run from hell as fast as you can and take the
first open road?

The station platforms were crowded with folks in motley garments showing signs of wear and
tear. Their possessions were done up in bags and shapeless bundles, rolled in pieces of sacking,
old shawls, red-and-white-checkered table-cloths. The men, with drawn and heavy faces, waited
patiently. The women collected and watched their restless flocks. The baby tugged at its mother's
breast. The little sister carried the next-to-baby in her arms. The boys, as usual, wandered
everywhere undismayed and peered curiously into everything.

The crowds were not disorderly or turbulent; there was no shrieking or groaning. There were,
of course, some of the baser sort in the vast multitude that fled to Holland--street rowdies
and other sons of Belial from the big towns, women of the pavements, and other wretched by-products
of our social system. How could it be otherwise in a throng of about a million, scooped up
and cast out by an evil chance? But the great bulk of the people were decent and industrious--no
more angels than the rest of us can show per thousand.

I remember a very respectable old couple, cleanly though plainly clad, waiting at the station
of a small village, looking in vain for a chance to board the train. Everything was full except
the compartment reserved for us. We opened the door and asked them to get in. The old gentleman
explained that he was a landscape-gardener, living in a small villa with a small garden, in
a suburb of Antwerp.

"It was a beautiful garden, monsieur," he said with glistening eyes. "It was arranged with
much skill and care. We loved every bush, every flower. But one evening three German shells
fell in it and burst. The good wife and I" (here a wan smile) "thought the climate no longer
sanitary. We ran away that night on foot. Much misery for old people. Last night we slept in
a barn with hundreds of others. But some day we go back to restore that garden. N' est-ce pas
vrai, cherie?"

Rosendaal, the Dutch custom-house town on the way to Antwerp, claims 15,000 inhabitants. In
two nights at least 40,000 refugees poured into that place. Every house from the richest to
the poorest opened its doors in hospitality. The beds and the floors were all filled with sleepers.
A big vacant factory building was fitted with improvised bunks and straw bedding. Two thousand
five hundred people were lodged there. Open-air kitchens were set up. The burgomaster and aldermen
and doctors and all the other "leading citizens" took off their coats and worked. The best
women in the place were cooking, serving tables, nursing, making clothes, doing all they could
for their involuntary guests.

In the picturesque old city of Bergen-op-Zoom--famous in history--I saw the same thing. There
a large tent-camp had been set up for the overflow from the houses. It was like a huge circus
of distress. The city hall was turned into an emergency storehouse of food: the vaulted halls
and chambers filled with boxes, bags, and barrels. When I went up to the bureau of the burgomaster,
his wife and daughters were there, sewing busily for the refugees.

I visited the main hospital and the annexes which had been established in the schoolhouses.
Twice, as we climbed the steep stairs, we stood aside for stretchers to be carried past. They
bore the bodies of people who had died from exposure and exhaustion.

In one ward there were a score of the most ancient women I have ever seen. They had made the
flight on foot. God knows how they ever did it. One of them was so weak that she could not
speak, so short of breath that she could not lie down. As she sat propped with pillows, rocking
slowly to and fro and coughing, coughing, feebly coughing her life out, she looked a thousand
years old. Perhaps she was, if suffering measures years.

Another room was for babies born in the terror and the flight. A few were well-looking enough;
but most of them were pitiful scraps and tatters of humanity. They were tenderly nursed and
cared for, but their chance was slender. While I was there one of the little creatures shuddered,
breathed a tiny sigh, and slipped out of a world that was too hard for it.

It was part of my unofficial duty to visit as many as possible of the private shelters  and
hospitals and workrooms and the public camps, because the Belgian Relief Committee and other
friends in New York had sent me considerable sums of money to use in helping the refugees.
In the careful application of these funds I had the advice of Mr. Th. Stuart, President of
the "Netherlands Relief Committee for Belgian and Other Victims of War," and of Baron F. van
Tuyll van Serooskerken, a great friend of mine, whom the Queen had appointed as General Commissioner
to oversee all the public refugee camps.

Three of these, Nunspeet, Ede, and Uden, were improvised villages, with blocks of long community
houses, separate dormitories for the unmarried men and for the single women, a dining-hall,
a chapel, one or two schoolhouses, a recreation-hall, a house of detention for refractory persons,
one hospital for general cases, and another for infectious diseases. It was all built of wood,
simple and primitive, but as comfortable as could be expected under the conditions. The chief
danger of the camps was idleness. In providing work to combat this peril the Rockefeller Foundation
and the committee of the English "Society of Friends" were of great assistance. Each of these
camps had accommodation for about 10,000 people.

