When he could find no further points to admire, something else caught his attention.  When
he "chipped" there was an answering "Chip" across the river; certainly there was no cardinal
there, so it must be that he was hearing his own voice as well as seeing himself.  Selecting
a conspicuous perch he sent an incisive "Chip!" across the water, and in kind it came back
to him.  Then he "chipped" softly and tenderly, as he did in the Limberlost to a favourite
little sister who often came and perched beside him in the maple where he slept, and softly
and tenderly came the answer.  Then the Cardinal understood.  "Wheat! Wheat! Wheat!" He whistled
it high, and he whistled it low.  "Cheer! Cheer!  Cheer!" He whistled it tenderly and sharply
and imperiously.  "Here! Here! Here!"  At this ringing command, every bird, as far as the river
carried his voice, came to investigate and remained to admire. Over and over he rang every
change he could invent.  He made a gallant effort at warbling and trilling, and then, with
the gladdest heart he ever had known, he burst into ringing song: "Good Cheer! Good Cheer!
Good Cheer!"

As evening came on he grew restless and uneasy, so he slowly winged his way back to the Limberlost;
but that day forever spoiled him for a swamp bird.  In the night he restlessly ruffled his
feathers, and sniffed for the breeze of the meadows.  He tasted the corn and the clear water
again.  He admired his image in the river, and longed for the sound of his voice, until he
began murmuring, "Wheat! Wheat! Wheat!" in his sleep.  In the earliest dawn a robin awoke him
singing, "Cheer up! Cheer up!" and he answered with a sleepy "Cheer! Cheer! Cheer!"  Later
the robin sang again with exquisite softness and tenderness: "Cheer up, Dearie!  Cheer up,
Dearie! Cheer up! Cheer up! Cheer!"  The Cardinal, now fully awakened, shouted lustily, "Good
Cheer! Good Cheer!"  and after that it was only a short time until he was on his way toward
the shining river.  It was better than before, and every following day found him feasting in
the corn field and bathing in the shining water; but he always returned to his family at nightfall.

When black frosts began to strip the Limberlost, and food was almost reduced to dry seed, there
came a day on which the king marshalled his followers and gave the magic signal.  With dusk
he led them southward, mile after mile, until their breath fell short, and their wings ached
with unaccustomed flight; but because of the trips to the river, the Cardinal was stronger
than the others, and he easily kept abreast of the king.  In the early morning, even before
the robins were awake, the king settled in the Everglades.  But the Cardinal had lost all liking
for swamp life, so he stubbornly set out alone, and in a short time he had found another river.
It was not quite so delightful as the shining river; but still it was beautiful, and on its
gently sloping bank was an orange orchard.  There the Cardinal rested, and found a winter home
after his heart's desire.

The following morning, a golden-haired little girl and an old man with snowy locks came hand
in hand through the orchard.  The child saw the redbird and immediately claimed him, and that
same day the edict went forth that a very dreadful time was in store for any one who harmed
or even frightened the Cardinal.  So in security began a series of days that were pure delight.
The orchard was alive with insects, attracted by the heavy odours, and slugs infested the bark.
Feasting was almost as good as in the Limberlost, and always there was the river to drink from
and to splash in at will.

In those days the child and the old man lingered for hours in the orchard, watching the bird
that every day seemed to grow bigger and brighter.  What a picture his coat, now a bright cardinal
red, made against the waxy green leaves!  How big and brilliant he seemed as he raced and darted
in play among the creamy blossoms!  How the little girl stood with clasped hands worshipping
him, as with swelling throat he rocked on the highest spray and sang his inspiring chorus over
and over: "Good Cheer!  Good Cheer!"  Every day they came to watch and listen.  They scattered
crumbs; and the Cardinal grew so friendly that he greeted their coming with a quick "Chip!
Chip!" while the delighted child tried to repeat it after him.  Soon they became such friends
that when he saw them approaching he would call softly "Chip! Chip!" and then with beady eyes
and tilted head await her reply.

Sometimes a member of his family from the Everglades found his way into the orchard, and the
Cardinal, having grown to feel a sense of proprietorship, resented the intrusion and pursued
him like a streak of flame.  Whenever any straggler had this experience, he returned to the
swamp realizing that the Cardinal of the orange orchard was almost twice his size and strength,
and so startlingly red as to be a wonder.

One day a gentle breeze from the north sprang up and stirred the orange branches, wafting the
heavy perfume across the land and out to sea, and spread in its stead a cool, delicate, pungent
odour.  The Cardinal lifted his head and whistled an inquiring note.  He was not certain, and
went on searching for slugs, and predicting happiness in full round notes: "Good Cheer! Good
Cheer!"  Again the odour swept the orchard, so strong that this time there was no mistaking
it.  The Cardinal darted to the topmost branch, his crest flaring, his tail twitching nervously.
"Chip! Chip!" he cried with excited insistence, "Chip! Chip!"

The breeze was coming stiffly and steadily now, unlike anything the Cardinal ever had known,
for its cool breath told of ice-bound fields breaking up under the sun.  Its damp touch was
from the spring showers washing the face of the northland.  Its subtle odour was the commingling
of myriads of unfolding leaves and crisp plants, upspringing; its pungent perfume was the pollen
of catkins.

Up in the land of the Limberlost, old Mother Nature, with strident muttering, had set about
her annual house cleaning.  With her efficient broom, the March wind, she was sweeping every
nook and cranny clean. With her scrub-bucket overflowing with April showers, she was washing
the face of all creation, and if these measures failed to produce cleanliness to her satisfaction,
she gave a final polish with storms of hail.  The shining river was filled to overflowing;
breaking up the ice and carrying a load of refuse, it went rolling to the sea.  The ice and
snow had not altogether gone; but the long-pregnant earth was mothering her children.  She
cringed at every step, for the ground was teeming with life.  Bug and worm were working to
light and warmth. Thrusting aside the mold and leaves above them, spring beauties, hepaticas,
and violets lifted tender golden-green heads.  The sap was flowing, and leafless trees were
covered with swelling buds. Delicate mosses were creeping over every stick of decaying timber.
The lichens on stone and fence were freshly painted in unending shades of gray and green. Myriads
of flowers and vines were springing up to cover last year's decaying leaves.

"The beautiful uncut hair of graves" was creeping over meadow, spreading beside roadways, and
blanketing every naked spot.

The Limberlost was waking to life even ahead of the fields and the river.  Through the winter
it had been the barest and dreariest of places; but now the earliest signs of returning spring
were in its martial music, for when the green hyla pipes, and the bullfrog drums, the bird
voices soon join them.  The catkins bloomed first; and then, in an incredibly short time, flags,
rushes, and vines were like a sea of waving green, and swelling buds were ready to burst. 
In the upland the smoke was curling over sugar-camp and clearing; in the forests animals were
rousing from their long sleep; the shad were starting anew their never-ending journey up the
shining river; peeps of green were mantling hilltop and valley; and the northland was ready
for its dearest springtime treasures to come home again.

From overhead were ringing those first glad notes, caught nearer the Throne than those of any
other bird, "Spring o' year! Spring o' year!"; while stilt-legged little killdeers were scudding
around the Limberlost and beside the river, flinging from cloudland their "Kill deer! Kill
deer!" call.  The robins in the orchards were pulling the long dried blades of last year's
grass from beneath the snow to line their mud-walled cups; and the bluebirds were at the hollow
apple tree.  Flat on the top rail, the doves were gathering their few coarse sticks and twigs
together.  It was such a splendid place to set their cradle.  The weatherbeaten, rotting old
rails were the very colour of the busy dove mother.  Her red-rimmed eye fitted into the background
like a tiny scarlet lichen cup.  Surely no one would ever see her!  The Limberlost and shining
river, the fields and forests, the wayside bushes and fences, the stumps, logs, hollow trees,
even the bare brown breast of Mother Earth, were all waiting to cradle their own again; and
by one of the untold miracles each would return to its place.

There was intoxication in the air.  The subtle, pungent, ravishing odours on the wind, of unfolding
leaves, ice-water washed plants, and catkin pollen, were an elixir to humanity.  The cattle
of the field were fairly drunk with it, and herds, dry-fed during the winter, were coming to
their first grazing with heads thrown high, romping, bellowing, and racing like wild things.

The north wind, sweeping from icy fastnesses, caught this odour of spring, and carried it to
the orange orchards and Everglades; and at a breath of it, crazed with excitement, the Cardinal
went flaming through the orchard, for with no one to teach him, he knew what it meant.  The
call had come.  Holidays were over.

It was time to go home, time to riot in crisp freshness, time to go courting, time to make
love, time to possess his own, time for mating and nest-building.  All that day he flashed
around, nervous with dread of the unknown, and palpitant with delightful expectation; but with
the coming of dusk he began his journey northward.

When he passed the Everglades, he winged his way slowly, and repeatedly sent down a challenging
"Chip," but there was no answer.  Then the Cardinal knew that the north wind had carried a
true message, for the king and his followers were ahead of him on their way to the Limberlost.
Mile after mile, a thing of pulsing fire, he breasted the blue-black night, and it was not
so very long until he could discern a flickering patch of darkness sweeping the sky before
him.  The Cardinal flew steadily in a straight sweep, until with a throb of triumph in his
heart, he arose in his course, and from far overhead, flung down a boastful challenge to the
king and his followers, as he sailed above them and was lost from sight.

It was still dusky with the darkness of night when he crossed the Limberlost, dropping low
enough to see its branches laid bare, to catch a gleam of green in its swelling buds, and to
hear the wavering chorus of its frogs.  But there was no hesitation in his flight.  Straight
and sure he winged his way toward the shining river; and it was only a few more miles until
the rolling waters of its springtime flood caught his eye.  Dropping precipitately, he plunged
his burning beak into the loved water; then he flew into a fine old stag sumac and tucked his
head under his wing for a short rest.  He had made the long flight in one unbroken sweep, and
he was sleepy.  In utter content he ruffled his feathers and closed his eyes, for he was beside
the shining river; and it would be another season before the orange orchard would ring again
with his "Good Cheer! Good Cheer!"

Chapter 2

"Wet year! Wet year!" prophesied the Cardinal

The sumac seemed to fill his idea of a perfect location from the very first.  He perched on
a limb, and between dressing his plumage and pecking at last year's sour dried berries, he
sent abroad his prediction.  Old Mother Nature verified his wisdom by sending a dashing shower,
but he cared not at all for a wetting.  He knew how to turn his crimson suit into the most
perfect of water-proof coats; so he flattened his crest, sleeked his feathers, and breasting
the April downpour, kept on calling for rain.  He knew he would appear brighter when it was
past, and he seemed to know, too, that every day of sunshine and shower would bring nearer
his heart's desire.

He was a very Beau Brummel while he waited.  From morning until night he bathed, dressed his
feathers, sunned himself, fluffed and flirted. He strutted and "chipped" incessantly.  He claimed
that sumac for his very own, and stoutly battled for possession with many intruders.  It grew
on a densely wooded slope, and the shining river went singing between grassy banks, whitened
with spring beauties, below it.  Crowded around it were thickets of papaw, wild grape-vines,
thorn, dogwood, and red haw, that attracted bug and insect; and just across the old snake fence
was a field of mellow mould sloping to the river, that soon would be plowed for corn, turning
out numberless big fat grubs.

He was compelled almost hourly to wage battles for his location, for there was something fine
about the old stag sumac that attracted homestead seekers.  A sober pair of robins began laying
their foundations there the morning the Cardinal arrived, and a couple of blackbirds tried
to take possession before the day had passed.  He had little trouble with the robins.  They
were easily conquered, and with small protest settled a rod up the bank in a wild-plum tree;
but the air was thick with "chips," chatter, and red and black feathers, before the blackbirds
acknowledged defeat.  They were old-timers, and knew about the grubs and the young corn; but
they also knew when they were beaten, so they moved down stream to a scrub oak, trying to assure
each other that it was the place they really had wanted from the first.

The Cardinal was left boasting and strutting in the sumac, but in his heart he found it lonesome
business.  Being the son of a king, he was much too dignified to beg for a mate, and besides,
it took all his time to guard the sumac; but his eyes were wide open to all that went on around
him, and he envied the blackbird his glossy, devoted little sweetheart, with all his might.
He almost strained his voice trying to rival the love-song of a skylark that hung among the
clouds above a meadow across the river, and poured down to his mate a story of adoring love
and sympathy.  He screamed a "Chip" of such savage jealousy at a pair of killdeer lovers that
he sent them scampering down the river bank without knowing that the crime of which they stood
convicted was that of being mated when he was not.  As for the doves that were already brooding
on the line fence beneath the maples, the Cardinal was torn between two opinions.

He was alone, he was love-sick, and he was holding the finest building location beside the
shining river for his mate, and her slowness in coming made their devotion difficult to endure
when he coveted a true love; but it seemed to the Cardinal that he never could so forget himself
as to emulate the example of that dove lover.  The dove had no dignity; he was so effusive
he was a nuisance.  He kept his dignified Quaker mate stuffed to discomfort; he clung to the
side of the nest trying to help brood until he almost crowded her from the eggs.  He pestered
her with caresses and cooed over his love-song until every chipmunk on the line fence was familiar
with his story.  The Cardinal's temper was worn to such a fine edge that he darted at the dove
one day and pulled a big tuft of feathers from his back.  When he had returned to the sumac,
he was compelled to admit that his anger lay quite as much in that he had no one to love as
because the dove was disgustingly devoted.

Every morning brought new arrivals--trim young females fresh from their long holiday, and big
boastful males appearing their brightest and bravest, each singer almost splitting his throat
in the effort to captivate the mate he coveted.  They came flashing down the river bank, like
rockets of scarlet, gold, blue, and black; rocking on the willows, splashing in the water,
bursting into jets of melody, making every possible display of their beauty and music; and
at times fighting fiercely when they discovered that the females they were wooing favoured
their rivals and desired only to be friendly with them.

The heart of the Cardinal sank as he watched.  There was not a member of his immediate family
among them.  He pitied himself as he wondered if fate had in store for him the trials he saw
others suffering.  Those dreadful feathered females! How they coquetted!  How they flirted!
How they sleeked and flattened their plumage, and with half-open beaks and sparkling eyes,
hopped closer and closer as if charmed.  The eager singers, with swelling throats, sang and
sang in a very frenzy of extravagant pleading, but just when they felt sure their little loves
were on the point of surrender, a rod distant above the bushes would go streaks of feathers,
and there was nothing left but to endure the bitter disappointment, follow them, and begin
all over.  For the last three days the Cardinal had been watching his cousin, rose-breasted
Grosbeak, make violent love to the most exquisite little female, who apparently encouraged
his advances, only to see him left sitting as blue and disconsolate as any human lover, when
he discovers that the maid who has coquetted with him for a season belongs to another man.

The Cardinal flew to the very top of the highest sycamore and looked across country toward
the Limberlost.  Should he go there seeking a swamp mate among his kindred?  It was not an
endurable thought.  To be sure, matters were becoming serious.  No bird beside the shining
river had plumed, paraded, or made more music than he.  Was it all to be wasted?  By this time
he confidently had expected results.  Only that morning he had swelled with pride as he heard
Mrs. Jay tell her quarrelsome husband that she wished she could exchange him for the Cardinal.
Did not the gentle dove pause by the sumac, when she left brooding to take her morning dip
in the dust, and gaze at him with unconcealed admiration?  No doubt she devoutly wished her
plain pudgy husband wore a scarlet coat.  But it is praise from one's own sex that is praise
indeed, and only an hour ago the lark had reported that from his lookout above cloud he saw
no other singer anywhere so splendid as the Cardinal of the sumac.  Because of these things
he held fast to his conviction that he was a prince indeed; and he decided to remain in his
chosen location and with his physical and vocal attractions compel the finest little cardinal
in the fields to seek him.

He planned it all very carefully: how she would hear his splendid music and come to take a
peep at him; how she would be captivated by his size and beauty; how she would come timidly,
but come, of course, for his approval; how he would condescend to accept her if she pleased
him in all particulars; how she would be devoted to him; and how she would approve his choice
of a home, for the sumac was in a lovely spot for scenery, as well as nest-building.

For several days he had boasted, he had bantered, he had challenged, he had on this last day
almost condescended to coaxing, but not one little bright-eyed cardinal female had come to
offer herself.

The performance of a brown thrush drove him wild with envy.  The thrush came gliding up the
river bank, a rusty-coated, sneaking thing of the underbrush, and taking possession of a thorn
bush just opposite the sumac, he sang for an hour in the open.  There was no way to improve
that music.  It was woven fresh from the warp and woof of his fancy. It was a song so filled
with the joy and gladness of spring, notes so thrilled with love's pleading and passion's tender
pulsing pain, that at its close there were a half-dozen admiring thrush females gathered around.
With care and deliberation the brown thrush selected the most attractive, and she followed
him to the thicket as if charmed.

It was the Cardinal's dream materialized for another before his very eyes, and it filled him
with envy.  If that plain brown bird that slinked as if he had a theft to account for, could,
by showing himself and singing for an hour, win a mate, why should not he, the most gorgeous
bird of the woods, openly flaunting his charms and discoursing his music, have at least equal
success?  Should he, the proudest, most magnificent of cardinals, be compelled to go seeking
a mate like any common bird?  Perish the thought!

He went to the river to bathe.  After finding a spot where the water flowed crystal-clear over
a bed of white limestone, he washed until he felt that he could be no cleaner.  Then the Cardinal
went to his favourite sun-parlour, and stretching on a limb, he stood his feathers on end,
and sunned, fluffed and prinked until he was immaculate.

On the tip-top antler of the old stag sumac, he perched and strained until his jetty whiskers
appeared stubby.  He poured out a tumultuous cry vibrant with every passion raging in him.
He caught up his own rolling echoes and changed and varied them.  He improvised, and set the
shining river ringing, "Wet year! Wet year!"

He whistled and whistled until all birdland and even mankind heard, for the farmer paused at
his kitchen door, with his pails of foaming milk, and called to his wife:

"Hear that, Maria! Jest hear it! I swanny, if that bird doesn't stop predictin' wet weather,
I'll get so scared I won't durst put in my corn afore June.  They's some birds like killdeers
an' bobwhites 'at can make things pretty plain, but I never heard a bird 'at could jest speak
words out clear an' distinct like that fellow.  Seems to come from the river bottom.  B'lieve
I'll jest step down that way an' see if the lower field is ready for the plow yet."

"Abram Johnson," said his wife, "bein's you set up for an honest man, if you want to trapse
through slush an' drizzle a half-mile to see a bird, why say so, but don't for land's sake
lay it on to plowin' 'at you know in all conscience won't be ready for a week yet 'thout pretendin'
to look."

Abram grinned sheepishly.  "I'm willin' to call it the bird if you are, Maria.  I've been hearin'
him from the barn all day, an' there's somethin' kind o' human in his notes 'at takes me jest
a little diffrunt from any other bird I ever noticed.  I'm really curious to set eyes on him.
Seemed to me from his singin' out to the barn, it 'ud be mighty near like meetin' folks."

"Bosh!" exclaimed Maria.  "I don't s'pose he sings a mite better 'an any other bird.  It's
jest the old Wabash rollin' up the echoes.  A bird singin' beside the river always sounds twicet
as fine as one on the hills.  I've knowed that for forty year.  Chances are 'at he'll be gone
'fore you get there."

As Abram opened the door, "Wet year! Wet year!" pealed the flaming prophet.

He went out, closing the door softly, and with an utter disregard for the corn field, made
a bee line for the musician.

"I don't know as this is the best for twinges o' rheumatiz," he muttered, as he turned up his
collar and drew his old hat lower to keep the splashing drops from his face.  "I don't jest
rightly s'pose I should go; but I'm free to admit I'd as lief be dead as not to answer when
I get a call, an' the fact is, I'm CALLED down beside the river."

"Wet year! Wet year!" rolled the Cardinal's prediction.

"Thanky, old fellow!  Glad to hear you!  Didn't jest need the information, but I got my bearin's
rightly from it! I can about pick out your bush, an' it's well along towards evenin', too,
an' must be mighty near your bedtime.  Looks as if you might be stayin' round these parts!
I'd like it powerful well if you'd settle right here, say 'bout where you are.  An' where are
you, anyway?"

Abram went peering and dodging beside the fence, peeping into the bushes, searching for the
bird.  Suddenly there was a whir of wings and a streak of crimson.

"Scared you into the next county, I s'pose," he muttered.

But it came nearer being a scared man than a frightened bird, for the Cardinal flashed straight
toward him until only a few yards away, and then, swaying on a bush, it chipped, cheered, peeked,
whistled broken notes, and manifested perfect delight at the sight of the white-haired old
man.  Abram stared in astonishment.

"Lord A'mighty!" he gasped.  "Big as a blackbird, red as a live coal, an' a-comin' right at
me.  You are somebody's pet, that's what you are! An' no, you ain't either.  Settin' on a sawed
stick in a little wire house takes all the ginger out of any bird, an' their feathers are always
mussy.  Inside o' a cage never saw you, for they ain't a feather out o' place on you.  You
are finer'n a piece o' red satin.  An' you got that way o' swingin' an' dancin' an' high-steppin'
right out in God A'mighty's big woods, a teeterin' in the wind, an' a dartin' 'crost the water.
Cage never touched you! But you are somebody's pet jest the same.  An' I look like the man,
an' you are tryin' to tell me so, by gum!"

Leaning toward Abram, the Cardinal turned his head from side to side, and peered, "chipped,"
and waited for an answering "Chip" from a little golden-haired child, but there was no way
for the man to know that.

"It's jest as sure as fate," he said.  "You think you know me, an' you are tryin' to tell me
somethin'.  Wish to land I knowed what you want! Are you tryin' to tell me `Howdy'?  Well,
I don't 'low nobody to be politer 'an I am, so far as I know."

Abram lifted his old hat, and the raindrops glistened on his white hair.  He squared his shoulders
and stood very erect.

"Howdy, Mr.  Redbird!  How d'ye find yerself this evenin'?  I don't jest riccolict ever seein'
you before, but I'll never meet you agin 'thout knowin' you.  When d'you arrive?  Come through
by the special midnight flyer, did you? Well, you never was more welcome any place in your
life.  I'd give a right smart sum this minnit if you'd say you came to settle on this river
bank.  How do you like it?  To my mind it's jest as near Paradise as you'll strike on earth.

"Old Wabash is a twister for curvin' and windin' round, an' it's limestone bed half the way,
an' the water's as pretty an' clear as in Maria's springhouse.  An' as for trimmin', why say,
Mr. Redbird, I'll jest leave it to you if she ain't all trimmed up like a woman's spring bunnit.
Look at the grass a-creepin' right down till it's a trailin' in the water!  Did you ever see
jest quite such fine fringy willers? An' you wait a little, an' the flowerin' mallows 'at grows
long the shinin' old river are fine as garden hollyhocks.  Maria says 'at thy'd be purtier
'an hers if they were only double; but, Lord, Mr.  Redbird, they are!  See 'em once on the
bank, an' agin in the water!  An' back a little an' there's jest thickets of papaw, an' thorns,
an' wild grape-vines, an' crab, an' red an' black haw, an' dogwood, an' sumac, an' spicebush,
an' trees! Lord! Mr. Redbird, the sycamores, an' maples, an' tulip, an' ash, an' elm trees
are so bustin' fine 'long the old Wabash they put 'em into poetry books an' sing songs about
'em.  What do you think o' that? Jest back o' you a little there's a sycamore split into five
trunks, any one o' them a famous big tree, tops up 'mong the clouds, an' roots diggin' under
the old river; an' over a little farther's a maple 'at's eight big trees in one.  Most anything
you can name, you can find it 'long this ole Wabash, if you only know where to hunt for it.

"They's mighty few white men takes the trouble to look, but the Indians used to know.  They'd
come canoein' an' fishin' down the river an' camp under these very trees, an' Ma 'ud git so
mad at the old squaws. Settlers wasn't so thick then, an' you had to be mighty careful not
to rile 'em, an' they'd come a-trapesin' with their wild berries.  Woods full o' berries! 
Anybody could get 'em by the bushel for the pickin', an' we hadn't got on to raisin' much wheat,
an' had to carry it on horses over into Ohio to get it milled.  Took Pa five days to make the
trip; an' then the blame old squaws 'ud come, an' Ma 'ud be compelled to hand over to 'em her
big white loaves.  Jest about set her plumb crazy.  Used to get up in the night, an' fix her
yeast, an' bake, an' let the oven cool, an' hide the bread out in the wheat bin, an' get the
smell of it all out o' the house by good daylight, so's 'at she could say there wasn't a loaf
in the cabin.  Oh!  if it's good pickin' you're after, they's berries for all creation 'long
the river yet; an' jest wait a few days till old April gets done showerin' an' I plow this
corn field!"

Abram set a foot on the third rail and leaned his elbows on the top. The Cardinal chipped delightedly
and hopped and tilted closer.

"I hadn't jest 'lowed all winter I'd tackle this field again.  I've turned it every spring
for forty year.  Bought it when I was a young fellow, jest married to Maria.  Shouldered a
big debt on it; but I always loved these slopin' fields, an' my share of this old Wabash hasn't
been for sale nor tradin' any time this past forty year.  I've hung on to it like grim death,
for it's jest that much o' Paradise I'm plumb sure of.  First time I plowed this field, Mr.
Redbird, I only hit the high places.  Jest married Maria, an' I didn't touch earth any too
frequent all that summer. I've plowed it every year since, an' I've been 'lowin' all this winter,
when the rheumatiz was gettin' in its work, 'at I'd give it up this spring an' turn it to medder;
but I don't know.  Once I got started, b'lieve I could go it all right an' not feel it so much,
if you'd stay to cheer me up a little an' post me on the weather.  Hate the doggondest to own
I'm worsted, an' if you say it's stay, b'lieve I'll try it.  Very sight o' you kinder warms
the cockles o' my heart all up, an' every skip you take sets me a-wantin' to be jumpin', too.

"What on earth are you lookin' for?  Man!  I b'lieve it's grub! Somebody's been feedin' you!
An' you want me to keep it up?  Well, you struck it all right, Mr. Redbird.  Feed you?  You
bet I will!  You needn't even 'rastle for grubs if you don't want to.  Like as not you're feelin'
hungry right now, pickin' bein' so slim these airly days.  Land's sake!  I hope you don't feel
you've come too soon.  I'll fetch you everything on the place it's likely a redbird ever teched,
airly in the mornin' if you'll say you'll stay an' wave your torch 'long my river bank this
summer. I haven't a scrap about me now.  Yes, I have, too!  Here's a handful o' corn I was
takin' to the banty rooster; but shucks! he's fat as a young shoat now.  Corn's a leetle big
an' hard for you.  Mebby I can split it up a mite."

