With a fierce bellow of rage Locasto, forgetting all his caution, charged him. He smashed his
heavy right with all its might for the other's face, but, quick as the quiver of a bow-string,
the Jam-wagon side-stepped and the blow missed. Then the Jam-wagon shifted and brought his
left, full-weight, crash on Locasto's mouth.

At that fierce triumphant blow there was the first dazzling blood-gleam, and the crowd screeched
with excitement. In a wild whirlwind of fury Locasto hurled himself on the Jam-wagon, his arms
going like windmills. Any one of these blows, delivered in a vital spot, would have meant death,
but his opponent was equal to this blind assault. Dodging, ducking, side-stepping, blocking,
he foiled the other at every turn, and, just before the round ended, drove his left into the
pit of the big man's stomach, with a thwack that resounded throughout the building.

Once more time was called. The Jam-wagon was bleeding about the knuckles. Several of Locasto's
teeth had been loosened, and he spat blood frequently. Otherwise he looked as fit as ever.
He pursued his man with savage determination, and seemed resolved to get in a deadly body-blow
that would end the fight.

It was pretty to see the Jam-wagon work. He was sprightly as a ballet dancer, as, weaving in
and out, he dodged the other's blows. His arms swung at his sides, and he threw his head about
in a manner insufferably mocking and tantalising. Then he took to landing light body-blows,
that grew more frequent till he seemed to be beating a regular tattoo on Locasto's ribs. He
was springy as a panther, elusive as an eel. As for Locasto, his face was sober now, strained,
anxious, and he seemed to be waiting with menacing eyes to get in that vital smash that meant
the end.

The Jam-wagon began to put more force into his arms. He drove in a short-arm left to the stomach,
then brought his right up to the other's chin. Locasto swung a deadly knock-out blow at the
Jam-wagon, which just grazed his jaw, and the Jam-wagon retaliated with two lightning rights
and a nervous left, all on the big man's face.

Then he sprang back, for he was excited now. In and out he wove. Once more he landed a hard
left on Locasto's heaving stomach, and then, rushing in, he rained blow after blow on his antagonist.
It was a furious mix-up, a whirling storm of blows, brutal, savage and murderous. No two men
could keep up such a gait. They came into a clinch, but this time the Jam-wagon broke away,
giving the deadly kidney blow as they parted. When time was called both men were panting hard,
bruised and covered with blood.

How the house howled with delight! All the primordial brute in these men was glowing in their
hearts. Nothing but blood could appease it. Their throats were parched, their eyes wild.

Round six. Locasto sprang into the centre of the ring. His face was hideously disfigured. Only
in that battered, blood-stained mask could I recognise the black eyes gleaming deadly hatred.
Rushing for the Jam-wagon, he hurled him across the ring. Again charging, he overbore him to
the floor, but failed to hold him.

Then in the Jam-wagon there awoke the ancient spirit of the Berserker. He cared no more for
punishment. He was insensible to pain. He was the sea-pirate again, mad with the lust of battle.
Like a fiend he tore himself loose, and went after his man, rushing him with a swift, battering
hail of blows around the ring. Like a tiger he was, and the violent lunges of Locasto only
infuriated him the more.

Now they were in a furious mix-up, and suddenly Locasto, seizing him savagely, tried to whip
him smashing to the floor. Then the wonderful agility of the Englishman was displayed. In a
distance of less than a two-foot drop he turned completely like a cat. Leaping up, he was free,
and, getting a waist-hold with a Cornish heave, he bore Locasto to the floor. Quickly he changed
to a crotch-lock, and, lastly, holding Locasto's legs, he brought him to a bridge and worked
his weight up on his body.

Black Jack, with a mighty heave, broke away and again regained his feet. This seemed to enrage
the Jam-wagon the more, for he tore after his man like a maddened bull. Getting a hold with
incredible strength, he lifted him straight up in the air and hurled him to the ground with
sickening force.

Locasto lay there. His eyes were closed. He did not move. Several men rushed forward. "He's
all right," said a medical-looking individual; "just stunned. I guess you can call the fight over."

The Jam-wagon slowly put on his clothes. Once more, in the person of Locasto, he had successfully
grappled with "Old Man Booze." He was badly bruised about the body, but not seriously hurt
in any way. Shudderingly I looked down at Locasto's face, beaten to a pulp, his body livid
from head to foot. And then, as they bore him off to the hospital, I realised I was revenged.

"Did you know that man Spitzstein was charging a dollar for admission?" queried the Prodigal.

"No!"

"That's right. That darned little Jew netted nearly a thousand dollars."

CHAPTER VI

"Let me introduce you," said the Prodigal, "to my friend the 'Pote.'"

"Glad to meet you," said the Pote cheerfully, extending a damp hand. "Just been having a dishwashing
bee. Excuse my dishybeel."

He wore a pale-blue undershirt, white flannel trousers girt round the waist with a red silk
handkerchief, very gaudy moccasins, and a rakish Panama hat with a band of chocolate and gold.

"Take a seat, won't you?" Through his gold-rimmed spectacles his eyes shone benevolently as
he indicated an easy-looking chair. I took it. It promptly collapsed under me.

"Ah, excuse me," he said; "you're not onto the combination of that chair. I'll fix it."

He performed some operation on it which made it less unstable, and I sat down gingerly.

I was in a little log-cabin on the hill overlooking the town. Through the bottle window the
light came dimly. The walls showed the bark of logs and tufts of intersecting moss. In the
corner was a bunk over which lay a bearskin robe, and on the little oblong stove a pot of beans
was simmering.

The Pote finished his dishwashing and joined us, pulling on an old Tuxedo jacket.

"Whew! Glad that job's over. You know, I guess I'm fastidious, but I can't bear to use a plate
for more than three meals without passing a wet rag over it. That's the worst of having refined
ideas, they make life so complex. However, I mustn't complain. There's a monastic simplicity
about this joint that endears it to me. And now, having immolated myself on the altar of cleanliness,
I will solace my soul with a little music."

He took down a banjo from the wall and, striking a few chords, began to sing. His songs seemed
to be original, even improvisations, and he sang them with a certain quaintness and point that
made them very piquant. I remember one of the choruses. It went like this:

    "In the land of pale blue snow
    Where it's ninety-nine below,
    And the polar bears are dancing on the plain,
    In the shadow of the pole,
    Oh, my Heart, my Life, my Soul,
    I will meet thee when the ice-worms nest again."

Every now and then he would pause to make some lively comment.

"You've never heard of the blue snow, Cheechako? The rabbits have blue fur, and the ptarmigans'
feathers are a bright azure. You've never had an ice-worm cocktail? We must remedy that. Great
dope. Nothing like ice-worm oil for salads. Oh, I forgot, didn't give you my card."

I took it. It was engraved thus:

                        OLLIE GABOODLER.

                         Poetic Expert.

Turning it over, I read:

             Graduate of the University of Hard Knocks.
        All kinds of verse made to order with efficiency and
                            dispatch.
               Satisfaction guaranteed or money returned.
                        A trial solicited.
                  In Memoriam Odes a specialty.
           Ballads, Rondeaux and Sonnets at modest prices.
                    Try our lines of Love Lyrics.
                  Leave orders at the Comet Saloon.

I stared at him curiously. He was smoking a cigarette and watching me with shrewd, observant
eyes. He was a blond, blue-eyed, cherubic youth, with a whimsical mouth that seemed to alternate
between seriousness and fun.

He laughed merrily at my look of dismay.

"Oh, you think it's a josh, but it's not. I've been a 'ghost' ever since I could push a pen.
You know Will Wilderbush, the famous novelist? Well, Bill died six years ago from over-assiduous
cultivation of John Barleycorn, and they hushed it up. But every year there's a new novel comes
from his pen. It's 'ghosts.' I was Bill number three. Isn't it rummy?"

I expressed my surprise.

"Yes, it's a great joke this book-faking. Wouldn't Thackeray have lambasted the best sellers?
A fancy picture of a girl on the cover, something doing all the time, and a happy ending--that's
the recipe. Or else be as voluptuous as velvet. Wait till my novel, 'Three Minutes,' comes
out. Order in advance."

"Indeed I will," I said.

He suddenly became grave.

"If I only could take the literary game seriously I might make good. But I'm too much of a
'farceur.' Well, one day we'll see. Maybe the North will inspire me. Maybe I'll yet become
the Spokesman of the Frozen Silence, the Avatar of the Great White Land."

He strutted up and down, inflating his chest.

"Have you framed up any dope lately?" asked the Prodigal.

"Why, yes; only this morning, while I was eating my beans and bacon, I dashed off a few lines.
I always write best when I'm eating. Want to hear them?"

He drew from his pocket an old envelope.

"They were written to the order of Stillwater Willie. He wants to present them to one of the
Labelle Sisters. You know--that fat lymphatic blonde, Birdie Labelle. It is short and sweet.
He wants to have it engraved on a gold-backed hand-mirror he's giving her.

    "I see within my true love's eyes
    The wide blue spaces of the skies;
    I see within my true love's face
    The rose and lily vie in grace;
    I hear within my true love's voice
    The songsters of the Spring rejoice.
    Oh, why need I seek Nature's charms--
    I hold my true love in my arms.

"How'll that hit her? There's such a lot of natural beauty about Birdie."

"Do you get much work?" I asked.

"No, it's dull. Poetry's rather a drug on the market up here. It's just a side-line. For a
living I clean shoes at the 'Elight' Barbershop--I, who have lingered on the sunny slopes of
Parnassus, and quenched my soul-thirst at the Heliconian spring--gents' tans a specialty."

"Did you ever publish a book?" I asked.

"Sure! Did you never read my 'Rhymes of a Rustler'? One reviewer would say I was the clear
dope, the genuine eighteen-carat, jewelled-movement article; the next would aver I was the
rankest dub that ever came down the pike. They said I'd imitated people, people I'd never read,
people I'd never heard of, people I never dreamt existed. I was accused of imitating over twenty
different writers. Then the pedants got after me, said I didn't conform to academic formulas,
advised me to steep myself in tradition. They talked about form, about classic style and so
on. As if it matters so long as you get down the thing itself so that folks can see it, and
feel it go right home to their hearts. I can write in all the artificial verse forms, but they're
mouldy with age, back numbers. Forget them. Quit studying that old Greek dope: study life,
modern life, palpitating with colour, crying for expression. Life! Life! The sunshine of it
was in my heart, and I just naturally tried to be its singer."

"I say," said the Prodigal from the bunk where he was lounging, in a haze of cigarette smoke,
"read us that thing you did the other day, 'The Last Supper.'"

The Pote's eyes twinkled with pleasure.

"All right," he said. Then, in a clear voice, he repeated the following lines:

           "THE LAST SUPPER.

    Marie Vaux of the Painted Lips,
    And the mouth so mocking gay;
    A wanton you to the finger tips,
    That break men's hearts in play;
    A thing of dust I have striven for,
    Honour and Manhood given for,
    Headlong for ruin driven for--
    And this is the last, you say:

      Drinking your wine with dainty sips,
      Marie Vaux of the Painted Lips.

    Marie Vaux of the Painted Lips,
    Long have you held your sway;
    I have laughed at your merry quips,
    Now is my time to pay.
    What we sow we must reap again;
    When we laugh we must weep again;
    So to-night we will sleep again,
    Nor wake till the Judgment Day.
    Here comes the Shape in quest of us,
    Now must we go away--

      You and I in the grave's eclipse,
      Marie Vaux of the Painted Lips."

Just as he finished there came a knock at the door, and a young man entered. He had the broad
smiling face of a comedian, and the bulgy forehead of a Baptist Missionary. The Pote introduced
him to me.

"The Yukon Yorick."

"Hello," chuckled the newcomer, "how's the bunch? Don't let me stampede you. How d'ye do, Horace!
Glad to meet you." (He called everybody Horace.) "Just come away from a meeting of my creditors.
What's that? Have a slab of booze? Hardly that, old fellow, hardly that. Don't tempt me, Horace,
don't tempt me. Remember I'm only a poor working-girl."

He seemed brimming over with jovial acceptance of life in all its phases. He lit a cigar.

"Say, boys, you know old Dingbats the lawyer. Ha, yes. Well, met him on Front Street just now.
Says I: 'Horace, that was a pretty nifty spiel you gave us last night at the Zero Club.' He
looked at me all tickled up the spine. Ha, yes. He was pleased as Punch. 'Say, Horace,' I says,
'I'm on, but I won't give you away. I've got a book in my room with every word of that speech
in it.' He looked flabbergasted. So I have--ha, yes, the dictionary."

He rolled his cigar unctuously in his mouth, with many chuckles and a histrionic eye.

"No, don't tempt me, Horace. Remember, I'm only a poor working-girl. Thanks, I'll just sit
down on this soap-box. Knew a man once, Jobcroft was his name, Charles Alfred Jobcroft, sat
down on a custard pie at a pink tea; was so embarrassed he wouldn't get up. Just sat on till
every one else was gone. Every one was wondering why he wouldn't budge: just sat tight."

"I guess he cussed hard," ventured the Prodigal.

"Oh, Horace, spare me that! Remember I'm only a poor working-girl. Hardly that, old fellow.
Say, hit me with a slab of booze quick. Make things sparkle, boys, make things sparkle."

He drank urbanely of the diluted alcohol that passed for whisky.

"Hit me easy, boys, hit me easy," he said, as they refilled his glass. "I can't hold my hootch
so well as I could a few summers ago--and many hard Falls. Talking about holding your 'hooch,'
the best I ever saw was a man called Podstreak, Arthur Frederick Podstreak. You couldn't get
that man going. The way he could lap up the booze was a caution. He would drink one bunch of
boys under the table, then leave them and go on to another. He would start in early in the
morning and keep on going till the last thing at night. And he never got hilarious even; it
didn't seem to phase him; he was as sober after the twentieth drink as when he started. Gee!
but he was a wonder."

The others nodded their heads appreciatively.

"He was a fine, healthy-looking chap, too; the booze didn't seem to hurt him. Never saw such
a constitution. I often watched him, for I suspected him of 'sluffing,' but no! He always had
a bigger drink than every one else, always drank whisky, always drank it neat, and always had
a chaser of water after. I said to myself: 'What's your system?' and I got to studying him
hard. Then, one day, I found him out."

"What was it?"

"Well, one day I noticed something. I noticed he always held his glass in a particular way
when he drank, and at the same time he pressed his stomach in the region of the 'solar plexus.'
So that night I took him aside.

"'Look here, Podstreak,' I said, 'I'm next to you.' I really wasn't, but the bluff worked.
He grew white.

"'For Heaven's sake, don't give me away,' he cried; 'the boys'll lynch me.'

"'All right,' I said; 'if you'll promise to quit.'

"Then he made a full confession, and showed me how he did it. He had an elastic rubber bag
under his shirt, and a tube going up his arm and down his sleeve, ending in a white nozzle
inside his cuff. When he went to empty his glass of whisky he simply pressed some air out of
the rubber bag, put the nozzle in the glass, and let it suck up all the whisky. At night he
used to empty all the liquor out of the bag and sell it to a saloon-keeper. Oh, he was a phoney
piece of work.

"'I've been a total abstainer (in private) for seven years,' he told me. 'Yes,' I said, 'and
you'll become one in public for another seven.' And he did."

Several men had dropped in to swell this Bohemian circle. Some had brought bottles. There was
a painter who had been "hung," a Mus Bac., an ex-champion amateur pugilist, a silver-tongued
orator, a man who had "suped" for Mansfield, and half a dozen others. The little cabin was
crowded, the air hazy with smoke, the conversation animated. But mostly it was a monologue
by the inimitable Yorick.

Suddenly the conversation turned to the immorality of the town.

"Now, I have a theory," said the Pote, "that the regeneration of Dawson is at hand. You know
Good is the daughter of Evil, Virtue the offspring of Vice. You know how virtuous a man feels
after a jag. You've got to sin to feel really good. Consequently, Sin must be good to be the
means of good, to be the raw material of good, to be virtue in the making, mustn't it? The
dance-halls are a good foil to the gospel-halls. If we were all virtuous, there would be no
virtue in virtue, and if we were all bad no one would be bad. And because there's so much bad
in this old burg of ours, it makes the good seem unnaturally good."

The Pote had the floor.

"A friend of mine had a beautiful pond of water-lilies. They painted the water exultantly and
were a triumphant challenge to the soul. Folks came from far and near to see them. Then, one
winter, my friend thought he would clean out his pond, so he had all the nasty, slimy mud scraped
away till you could see the silver gravel glimmering on the bottom. But the lilies, with all
their haunting loveliness, never came back."

"Well, what are you driving at, you old dreamer?"

"Oh, just this: in the nasty mud and slime of Dawson I saw a lily-girl. She lives in a cabin
by the Slide along with a Jewish couple. I only caught a glimpse of her twice. They are unspeakable,
but she is fair and sweet and pure. I would stake my life on her goodness. She looks like a
young Madonna----"

He was interrupted by a shout of cynical laughter.

"Oh, get off your foot! A Madonna in Dawson--Ra! Ra!"

He shut up abashed, but I had my clue. I waited until the last noisy roisterer had gone.

"In the cabin by the Slide?" I asked.

He started, looked at me searchingly: "You know her?"

"She means a good deal to me."

"Oh, I understand. Yes, that long, queer cabin highest up the hill."

"Thanks, old chap."

"All right, good luck." He accompanied me to the door, staring at the marvel of the glamorous
Northern midnight.

"Oh, for a medium to express it all! Your pedantic poetry isn't big enough; prose isn't big
enough. What we want is something between the two, something that will interpret life, and
stir the great heart of the people. Good-night."

CHAPTER VII

Very softly I approached the cabin, for a fear of encountering her guardians was in my heart.
It was in rather a lonely place, perched at the base of that vast mountain abrasion they call
the Slide, a long, low cabin, quiet and dark, and surrounded by rugged boulders. Carefully
I reconnoitered, and soon, to my infinite joy, I saw the Jewish couple come forth and make
their way townward. The girl was alone.

How madly beat my heart! It was a glooming kind of a night, and the cabin looked woefully bleak
and solitary. No light came through the windows, no sound through the moss-chinked walls. I
drew near.

Why this wild commotion of my being? What was it? Anxiety, joy, dread? I was poised on the
pinnacle of hope that overhangs the abyss of despair. Fearfully I paused. I was racked with
suspense, conscious of a longing so poignant that the thought of disappointment became insufferable
pain. So violent was my emotion that a feeling almost of nausea overcame me.

I knew now that I cared for this girl more than I had ever thought to care for woman. I knew
that she was dearer to me than all the world else; I knew that my love for her would live as
long as life is long.

I knocked at the door. No answer.

"Berna," I cried in a faltering whisper.

Came the reply: "Who is there?"

"Love, love, dear; love is waiting."

Then, at my words, the door was opened, and the girl was before me. I think she had been lying
down, for her soft hair was a little ruffled, but her eyes were far too bright for sleep. She
stood gazing at me, and a little fluttering hand went up to her heart as if to still its beating.

"Oh, my dear, I knew you were coming."

A great radiance of joy seemed to descend on her.

"You knew?"

"I knew, yes, I knew. Something told me you were come at last. And I've waited--how I've waited!
I've dreamed, but it's not a dream now, is it, dear; it's you?"

"Yes, it's me. I've tried so hard to find you. Oh, my dear, my dear!"

I seized the sweet, soft hand and covered it with kisses. At that moment I could have kissed
the shadow of that little hand; I could have fallen before her in speechless adoration; I could
have made my heart a footstool for her feet; I could have given her, O, so gladly, my paltry
life to save her from a moment's sorrow--I loved her so, I loved her so!

"High and low I've sought you, beloved. Morning, noon and night you've been in my brain, my
heart, my soul. I've loved you every moment of my life. It's been desire feeding despair, and,
O, the agony of it! Thank God, I've found you, dear! thank God! thank God!"

O Love, look down on us and choir your harmonies! Transported was I, speaking with whirling
words of sweetest madness, tremulous, uplifted with rapture, scarce conscious of my wild, impassioned
metaphors. It was she, most precious of all creation; she, my beloved. And there, in the doorway,
she poised, white as a lily, lustrous-eyed, and with hair soft as sunlit foam. O Divinity of
Love, look down on us thy children; fold us in thy dove-soft wings; illumine us in thy white
radiance; touch us with thy celestial hands. Bless us, Love!

How vastly alight were the grey eyes! How ineffably tender the sweet lips! A faint glow had
come into her cheeks.

"O, it's you, really, really you at last," she cried again, and there was a tremor, the surface
ripple of a sob in that clear voice. She fetched a deep sigh: "And I thought I'd lost you forever.
Wait a moment. I'll come out."

Endlessly long the moment seemed, yet wondrously irradiate. The shadow had lifted from the
world; the skies were alight with gladness; my heart was heaven-aspiring in its ecstasy. Then,
at last, she came.

