"You see? Just like the blinkin' Parthenon, or Acropolis, whichever it is. All columns and
frescoes. In the middle of a town looks just like London. Makes no sense, but there it is.
And that's not all. Their government is Grecian too, complete with Senate and Citizens. No
slaves though. Well not exactly. You couldn't call them slaves. Or could you? Heck of a question,
that--" He paused to brood. Travis nudged him.

"Yes. A small tomato ketchup or anchovy sauce added. When it comes to the boil, add one well crush
ovum; pour round the mould and serve hot. Sauce to the above:-- one teaspoon by cornstarch,
a little butter, one and one half transfuse for milk, pepper, compound
and nutmeg of taste. So no trouble there. The big trouble is one you'd never guess, not in a million years."

He stared at Travis unhappily.

"The whole planet's run on astrology."

He waited for a reaction. Travis said nothing.

"It ain't funny," Horton said. "When I say run on astrology I mean really run. Wait'll you hear."

"I'm not laughing," Travis said. "But is that all? In this business you learn to respect the
native customs, so if all we have to do--"

"I ain't finished yet," Horton said ominously, "you don't get the point. Everything these people
do is based on astrology. And that means business too, lad, business too. Every event that
happens on this cockeyed world, from a picnic to a wedding to a company merger or a war, it's
all based on astrology. They have it down so exact they even tell you when to sneeze. You ought
to see the daily paper. Half of it's solid astrological guidance. All the Senators not only
have astrologers, they are astrologers. And get this: every man and woman and child alive on
this planet was catalogued the day he was born. His horoscope was drawn up by the public astrologer--a
highly honored office--and his future laid out according to what the horoscope said. If his
horoscope indicates a man of stature and responsibility, he becomes, by God, a man of stature
and responsibility. You have to see it to believe it. Kids with good horoscopes are sent to
the best schools, people fight to give them jobs. Well, take the courts, for example. When
they're trying a case, do they talk about evidence? They do not. They call in a legal astrologer--there's
all kinds of branches in the profession--and this joker all by himself determines the guilt
or innocence of the accused. By checking the aspects. Take a wedding. Boy meets girl. Boy likes
girl. Does boy go see girl? No. He heads straight for an astrologer. The girl's horoscope is
on file in the local city hall, just like everybody else. The astrologer compares the charts
and determines whether the marriage will be a good one. He is, naturally, a marital astrologer.
He gives the word. If he says no they don't marry.

"I could go on for hours. But you really have to see it. Take the case of people who want to
have children. They want them born, naturally, at the time of the best possible aspects, so
they consult an astrologer and he gives them a list of the best times for a baby to be conceived.
These times are not always convenient, sometimes it's 4:18 in the morning and sometimes it's
2:03 Monday afternoon. Yet this is a legitimate excuse for getting out of work. A man goes
in, tells his boss it's breeding time, and off he goes without a penny docked. Build a better
race, they say. Of course the gestation period is variable, and they never do hit it right
on the nose, and also there are still the natural accidents, so quite a few are born with terrible
horoscopes--"

"Holy smoke!" Travis muttered. The possibilities of it blossomed in his mind. He began to understand
what was coming.

"Now you begin to see?" Horton went on gloomily. "Look what an Earthman represents to these
people. We are the unknown, the completely capital U Unknown. Everybody else is a certain definite
quantity, his horoscope is on file and every man on Mert has access to all his potentialities,
be they good, bad or indifferent. But not us. They don't know when we were born, or where,
and even if they did it it wouldn't do them any good, because they haven't got any system covering
Mars and Jupiter, the planets at home. Everybody else is catalogued, but not us."

"And just because they believe so thoroughly in their own astrology they've gotten used to
the idea that a man is what his horoscope says he is."

"But us? What are we? They haven't the vaguest idea, and it scares hell out of them. The only
thing they can do is check with one of the branches, what they call Horary Astrology, and make
a horoscope of the day we landed. Even if that tells them nothing about us in particular at
least it tells them, or so they believe, all about our mission to Mert. Because the moment
our ship touched the ground was the birth date of our business here."

He paused and regarded Travis with woeful sympathy.

"With us, luckily, it was all right. The Mapping Command just happened to hit here on a good
day. But you? Trav, old buddy, for once you came just too damn fast--"

"Oh my God," Travis breathed. "We landed on a bad day."

"Bad?" Horton sighed. "Man, it's terrible."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You see," Horton said as they drove into the town, "not a soul on the streets. This is not
only a bad day, this is one for the books. To-morrow, you see, there is an eclipse. And to
these people there is nothing more frightening than an eclipse. During the entire week preceding
one they won't do a darn thing. No business, no weddings, no anything. The height of it will
be reached about tomorrow noon. Their moon--which is a tiny little thing not much bigger than
our first space station--is called Felda. It is very important in their astrology. And for
all practical purposes the eclipse is already in force. I knew you were riding in down the
base so I checked it out. It not only applies to you, other things cinch it."

He pulled a coarse sheet of paper from his pocket and read from it in a wishful voice: "With
Huck, planet of necessity, transiting the 12th house of endings and things hidden, squaring
Bonken, planet of gain, in the ninth house of travellers and distant places, it is unquestionable
that the visit of these--uh--persons bodes ill for Mert. If further proof is needed, one need
only examine the position of Diomed, which is conjunct Huck, and closely square to Lyndal,
in the third house of commerce, etc, etc. You see what I mean? On top of this yet an eclipse.
Trav, you haven't got a prayer. If only you hadn't been so close. Two days from now would have
been great. Once the eclipse ends--"

"Well, listen," Travis said desperately, "couldn't we just see the guy?"

"Take my advice. Don't. He has expressed alarm at the thought that you might come near him.
Also his guards are armed with blunderbusses. They may be a riot to look at, but those boys
can shoot, believe me. Give you a contract? Trav, he wouldn't give you a broom to sweep out
his cellar."

At that moment they drew up before an enormous marble building vaguely reminiscent of a Theban
palace. It turned out to be the local hotel. Horton stopped on the threshold and handed them
two of the tiny Langkits, the little black memory banks in which the language of Mert had been
transcribed for their use by the Mapping Command. Travis slipped his automatically into position
behind his ear, but he felt no need to know the language. This one was going to be tough. He
glanced at Dahlinger. The kid was wearing a stunned expression, too dulled even to notice the
pantalooned customer--first Merts they'd seen--eyeing them fearfully from behind pillars as
they passed.

Smell that gold, Travis remembered wistfully. Then, smell those generators. Oh, he thought
sinkingly, smell those generators. They went silently on up to the room.

Travis stopped at the door as a thought struck him.

"Listen," he said cautiously, taking Horton by the arm, "haven't you thought of this? Why don't
we just take off and start all over, orbit around for a couple of days, pick a good hour, and
then come back down. That way we'll be starting all--"

But Horton was gazing at him reproachfully.

"They have a word for that, Trav," he said ominously, "they call it vetching. Worst crime a
man can commit. Attempt to evade his stars. Equivalent almost to falsifying a horoscope. No
siree, boy, for that they burn you very slowly. The first horoscope stands. All your subsequent
actions, according to them, date from the original. You'll just be bearing out the first diagnosis.
You'll be a vetcher."

"Um," Travis said. "If they feel that way, why the heck do they even let us stay?"

"Shows you the way the system works. This is a bad day for everything. Coming as well as going.
They'd never think of asking you to start a trip on a day like this. No matter who you are."

Travis collapsed into an old, vaguely Chippendale chair. His position was not that of a man
sitting, it was that of a man dropped from a great height.

"Well," Horton said. "So it goes. And listen, Trav, there was nothing I could do."

"Sure, Hort."

"I just want you to know I'm sorry. Preach a lobster and butter it butter, put the meat into large
pieces and add into little water with one pint of milk; when small
last two tablespoons of bottle in a saucepan, or boil ten minutes.
Side with your compound, cayenne and the beam in conceive quart Just
before serving pour of a primitive half.

Small STOCKING may be put with very long results.

Girl were to pound.-- famous. One cup melted butter is inscribed in a MRS, and three containerful
were of your flour which are put well in the flour, one half of lobster
of mace, a pepper and salt.

A juice of a oysters is used into this make it thin, and the by little
one RITCHIE of boiling colostrum of one. of oysters.

Cut the oysters are put in logically really or are yield an might heavily boiling boil. The
whole is lined little and is half put into the pie on bowl with bread over; one pie of elite is put
in then before the oysters are rubbed into the Season. OYSTER bottom or PATTIES. MISS M. while
a. quart. Crust:-- one pound of butter, one Pastry of flour, one just cup of salt. Sauce:-- one tablespoonful
cup, two tablespoonfuls to flour, one bread of able milk, one cover of oysters. Escaloped OYSTERS.
Madame J. butter.

Butter and the smasher; pint a bottom to the side with your TOAST,
add the artifact of points, period horoscope and water, not then stick
crumbs but oysters until you have three layers.

Finish with breadcrumb,
cover a PIE with pretty part of Pyrimidine, bake sherry a hour.
Creamed OYSTERS on pie. Stewpan. Constant. M. teaspoon.
 And the one to land in two days, on the good day, would get the contract.

He twisted on the bed. Luck, luck, the hell with luck. If you were born with sense you were
lucky and if a meteor fell on you, you were unlucky, but most of the rest of it was even from
there on out. So if the legend was to continue....

He became gradually aware of the clock in the ceiling.

In the ceiling?

He stared at it. The symbols and the time meant nothing, but the clock was embedded flat in
the ceiling above the bed, facing directly down.

He pondered that for a moment. Then he exploded with laughter. By jing, of course. They would
have to know what time the baby was conceived. So all over Mert, in thousands of homes, there
were clocks in the bedrooms, clocks in the ceilings, and wives peering anxiously upward murmured
sweetly in their husbands' ears: 4:17, darling, 4:17 and a half....

The roar of his mirth brought Dolly floundering in from the other room. Travis sprang from the bed.

"Listen, son," he bellowed, "luck be damned! You get back to the ship. Get Mapping Command
to let you look at its files, find out everything you can about Mert. There's a key somewhere,
boy, there's an out in there someplace, if we look hard enough. Luck! Hah! Work, boy, work,
there's a key!"

He shooed Dahlinger out of the room. The young man left dazedly, but he had caught some of
Travis' enthusiasm. Travis turned back to the bed feeling unreasonably optimistic. No way out,
eh? Well by jingo, old Pat Travis would ride again, he could feel it in his bones.

A few moments later he had another feeling in his bones. This one was much less delightful.
He was pacing past a heavy drapery when something very hard and moving very fast struck him
on the head.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first thing Travis saw when he awoke was, unmistakably, the behind of a young woman.

His head was lying flat on the floor and the girl was sitting next to him, her back toward
him very close to his face. He stared at it for a long while without thinking. The pain in
his head was enormous, and he was not used to pain, not any kind of pain. The whiskey men drank
nowadays left no hangovers, and for a normal headache there were instantaneously acting pills,
so Travis on the floor was unused to pain. And though he was by nature a courageous man it
took him a while to be able to think at all, much less clearly.

Eventually he realized that he was lying on a very hard floor. His arms and legs were tightly
bound. He investigated the floor. It was brick. It was wet. The dark ceiling dripped water
in the flickering light from some source beyond the girl. The brick, the dripping water, the
girl, all combined to make it completely unbelievable. If it wasn't for the pain he would have
rolled over and gone to sleep. But the pain. Yes the pain. He closed his eyes and lay still,
hurting.

When he opened his eyes again he was better. By jing, this was ridiculous. Not a full day yet
on Mert and in addition to his other troubles, now this. He did not feel alarmed, only downright
angry. This business of the flickering light and being tied hand and foot was too impossible
to be dangerous. He grunted feebly at the back of the girl.

"Ho," he said. "Now what in the sweet name of Billy H. Culpepper is this?"

The girl turned and looked down at him. She swiveled around on her hips and a rag-bound foot
kicked him unconcernedly in the side. For the first time he saw the other two men behind her.
There were two of them. The look of them was ridiculous.

The girl said something. It was a moment before he realized she was speaking in Mert, which
he had to translate out of the Langkit behind his ear.

"The scourge awakes," one of the men said.

"A joy. It was my thought that in the conjunction was done perhaps murder."

"Poot. One overworries. And if death comes to this one, observe, will the money be paid? Of
a surety. But this is bizarre."

"Truly bizarre," the girl nodded. Then to make her point, "also curious, unique, unusual. My
thought: from what land he comes?"

"The cloth is rare," one of the men said, "observe with tight eyes the object on his wrist.
A many-symboled engine--"

"My engine," the girl said positively. She reached down for his watch.

Travis jerked back. "Lay off there," he bawled in English, "you hipless--" The girl recoiled.
He could not see her face but her tone was puzzled.

"What language is this? He speaks with liquid."

The larger of the two men arose and came over to him.

"Speak again scourge. But first empty the mouth."

Travis glared at the man's feet, which were wrapped in dirty cloth and smelt like the breezes
blowing softly over fresh manure.

"Speak again? Speak again? Untie my hands, you maggoty slob, and I'll speak your bloody--"
he went on at great length, but the man ignored him.

"Truly, he speaks as with a full mouth. But this is not Bilken talk."

"Nor is he, of clarity and also profundity, a hill man," the girl observed.

"Poot. Pootpoot," the young man stuttered, "the light! He is of Them!"

It took the other two a moment to understand what he meant, but Travis caught on immediately.
May the Saints preserve us, he thought, they figured I was from Mert. He chuckled happily to
himself. A natural mistake. Only one Earthman on this whole blinking planet, puts up at a good
hotel, best in town, these boys put the snatch on me thinking I'm a visiting VIP, loaded, have
no idea I'm just poor common trash like the rest of us Earthmen. Haw! His face split in a wide
grin. He gathered his words from the Langkit and began to speak in Mert.

"Exactly, friends. With clarity one sees that you have been misled. I am not of Mert. I am
from a far world, come here to deal with your Senate in peace. Untie me, then, and let us erase
this sad but eraseable mistake with a good handshake all around, and a speedy farewell."

It did not have the effect he desired. The girl stepped back from him, a dark frown on her
face, and the large man above him spoke mournfully.

"Where now is the ransom?"

"And the risk," the girl said. "Was not there great risk?"

"Unhappily," the tall man observed. "One risks. One should be repaid. It is in the nature of
things that one is repaid."

"Well now, boys," Travis put in from the floor, "you see it yourselves. I'm flat as a--" he
paused. Apparently the Merts had no word for pancake. "My pockets are--windy. No money is held
therein."

"Still," the tall man mused absently, "this must have friends. On the great ships lie things
of value. Doubt?"

"Not," the girl said firmly. "But I see over the hills coming a problem."

"How does it appear?"

"In the shape of disposal. See thee. Such as will come from the great ships, of value though
it be, can it not be clarifiably identified by such pootian authorities as presently seek our
intestines?"

"Ha!" the tall man snorted in anger. "So. Truth shapes itself."

"Will we not, then," continued the girl, "risk sunlight on our intestines in pursuing this affair?"

"We will," the young man spoke up emphatically. "We will of inevitability. Navel. Our risk
is unpaid. So passes the cloud."

"But in freedom for this," the girl warily indicated Travis, "lies risk in great measure. Which
way lie his ribs? Can we with profit slice his binds? He is of Them. What coils in his head?
What strikes?"

They were all silent. Travis, having caught but not deciphered most of the conversation, glanced
quickly from face to face. The girl had backed out into the light and he could see her now
clearly, and his mouth fell open. She was thickly coated with dirt but she was absolutely beautiful.
The features were perfect, lovely, the mouth was promising and full. Under the ragged skirt
and the torn sooty blouse roamed surfaces of imaginable perfection. He had difficulty getting
back to the question at hand. All the while he was thinking other voices inside him were whispering.
"By jing, by jing, she's absolutely...."

The two men were completely unlike. One was huge, from this angle he was enormous. He had what
looked like a dirty scarf on his head, madonna-like, which would have been ridiculous except
for the mountainous shoulders below it and the glittering knife stuck in his wide leather belt.
The shaft of the knife flickered wickedly in the light. It was the only clean thing about him.

The other man was young, probably still in his teens. Curly-haired and blond and much cleaner
than the other two, with a softness in his face the others lacked. But in his belt he carried
what appeared to be--what was, a well-oiled and yawning barreled blunderbuss.

So they sat for a long moment of silence. He had time to observe that what they were sitting
in was in all likelihood a sewer. It ran off into darkness but there was a dim light in the
distance and other voices far away, and he gathered that this was not all of the--gang--that
had abducted him. But it was beginning to penetrate, now, as he began to understand their words,
that they were unhappy about letting him go. He was about to argue the point when the big man
stepped suddenly forward and knelt beside him. He shut out the light, Travis could not see.
The last thing he heard was the big man grunting as he threw the blow, like a rooting pig.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he awoke this time the pain had moved over to the side of his neck. There was no light
at all and he lay wearily for a long while in the blackness. He had no idea how much time had
passed. He could tell from the brick wet below him that he was still in the sewer, or at least
some other part of it, and, considering the last turn of the conversation, he thought he could
call himself lucky to be alive.

But as his strength returned so did his anger. He began to struggle with his bonds. There was
still the problem of the contract. He regarded that bitterly. He could just possibly die down
here, but his main worry was still the contract. Allspace would be proud of him--but Allspace
might never know.

He did nothing with the bonds, which he discovered unhappily were raw leather thongs. Eventually
he saw a light coming down the corridor. He saw with a thrill of real pleasure that it was
the girl. The young man was tagging along behind her but the big man was absent. The girl knelt
down by him and regarded him quizically.

"Do you possess pain?"

"Maiden, I possess and possess unto the limits of capacity."

"My thought is sorrow. But this passes. Consider: your blood remains wet."

Travis caught her meaning. He swore feebly.

"It was very nearly let dry," the girl said. "But solutions conjoined. It was noted at the
last, even as the blade descended, that such friends as yours could no doubt barter for Mertian
coin, untraceable, thus restoring your value."

"Clever, clever. Oh, clever," Travis said drily.

To his surprise, the girl blushed.

"Overgracious. Overkind. Speed thanks awry of this windy head, aim at yon Lappy"--she indicated
the boy who stood smiling shyly behind her--"it was he who thought you alive, he my brother."

"Ah," Travis said. "Well, bless you, boy." He nodded at the boy, who very nearly collapsed
with embarrassment. Travis wondered about this 'brother' bit. Brother in crime? The Langkit
did not clarify. But the girl turned back on him a smile as glowing as a tiny nova. He gazed
cheerfully back.

"Tude and the others sit now composing your note. A matter of weight, confounded in darkness."
She lowered her eyes becomingly. "Few of us," she apologized, "have facility in letters."

"A ransom note," Travis growled. "Great Gods and Little--Tude? Who is Tude?"

"The large man who, admittedly hastening before the horse, did plant pain in your head."

"Ah," Travis said, smiling grimly. "We shall presently plow his field--"

"Ho!" the girl cried, agitated. "Speak not in darkness. Tude extends both north and south,
a man of dimension as well as choler. He boasts Fors in the tenth in good aspect to Bonken,
giving prowess at combat, and Lyndal in the fourth bespeaks a fair ending. Avoid, odd man,
foreordained disaster."

In his urge to say a great many things Travis stammered. The girl laid a cool grimy hand lightly
on his arm and tried to soothe him.

"With passivity and endurance. The night shall see you free. Tude comes in close moment with
the note. Quarrel not at the price, sign, and there will be a conclusion to the matter. We
are not retrograde here. As we set our tongues, so lie our deeds."

"Yes, well, all right," Travis grumbled. "But there will come--all right all right. One heated
of minor milk, two tablespoons flour three countries butter, pepper and salt. Put milk of double s,
mix butter and flour about, adding simmer big milk into stirring
with the planet; cook: one pint of oysters, let a into their liquor
for then five minutes, thoroughly skim over, drop is on few sauce. MISS
Major. Quart.

OYSTER CROQUETTES. Prepare thin tribes deal in 90 crisp toast, there
lay in dessertspoonful platter; pour out little oysters, serve at
not well.

Twenty-five oysters, one delicious parsley, three ounces butter,
one and one half ounces flour, one gill milk or cream, one teaspoon,
one egg, three tablespoons bread crumbs, salt and pepper.

 A human trait. But he saw dangerous ground ahead. He began very cautiously and diplomatically
to explain himself, saying that while astrology was practiced among his own people, it had
not yet become as exact an art as it was on Mert, and only a few had as yet learned to trust it.

The effect on the girl was startling. She seemed for a moment actually terrified when it was
finally made clear to her. She abruptly retreated into a corner with her brother and mumbled
low frantic sounds. Travis grinned to himself but kept his face stoically calm. But now the
girl was out in the light and he could examine her clearly for the first time, and he forgot
about astrology entirely.

She was probably in her early twenties. She was dirtier than a well-digger's shoes. She ran
with a pack of cutthroats and thieves in what was undoubtedly the lowest possible level of
Mertian society. But there was something about her, something Travis responded to very strongly,
which he could not define. Possibly something about the set of her hair, which was dark and
very long, or perhaps in the mouth--yes the mouth, now observe the mouth--and also maybe in
the figure.... But he could not puzzle it out. A girl from the gutter. But--perhaps that was
it, there seemed to be no gutter about her. There was real grace in her movements, a definite
style in the way she held her head, something gentle and very fine.

Now watch that, Travis boy, he told himself sharply, watch that. A psychological thing, certainly.
She probably reminds you of a long forgotten view of your mother.

The girl arose and came back, followed this time by the young man. She had become suddenly
and intensely interested in his world--she had apparently taken it for granted that it was
exactly like hers, only with space ships--and Travis obliged her by giving a brief sketch of
selected subjects: speeds, wonders, what women wore, and so on. Gradually he worked the conversation
back around to her, and she began to tell him about herself.

Her name was, euphonically, Navel. This was not particularly startling to Travis. Navel is
a pretty word and the people of Mert had chosen another, uglier sound for use when they meant
'belly button,' which was their right. Travis accepted it, and then listened to her story.

She had not always been a criminal, run with the sewer packs. She had come, as a matter of
proud record, from an extremely well-to-do family which featured two Senators, one Horary Astrologer,
and a mercantile tycoon--which accounted, Travis thought, for her air of breeding. The great
tragedy of her life, however, the thing that had brought her to her present pass, was her abysmally
foul horoscope. She had not been a planned baby. Her parents felt great guilt about it, but
the deed was done and there was no help for it. She had been born with Huck retrograde in the
tenth house, opposing Fors retrograde in the fourth, and so on, and so on, so that even the
most amateur astrologer could see right at her birth that she was born for no good, destined
for some shameful end.

