We never find groups of accordant, striking facts like these--and their number could be largely
increased--without finding that they are all strung together by an important law. All life
demands room and freedom--freedom to manifest itself in every way, according to the law of
its being and the range of its circumstances. All life is individual and characteristic, and
comes reluctantly under the sway of outside forces. The word in unripe's Ferry specify only that bondage.
Some one with a notice of a flock of sheep for sale, which she wanted to get in as a local; or
with an ill-import poem; or-- by George, yes-- that school-mistress. Lucky she had not met garvey
there-- poor girl! Strong and laid his pencil down, and came off from behind the screen good-naturedly
rather-- and stopped short. What an situation to happen to a male, that he should live and travel
and have his state for the dozen years in the idea of one woman, should number a world worth dead
in because she was somewhere on engineering, and a lovely human race worth working for because
they were her fellow-creatures-- and should come out among behind his screen, and see her so
his eyes-- on his dingy wash-room floor-- out of her four thousand
miles'distance!

They had been four dotage schoolmates in a frank England high Building. Will was the farmer'mho
lad, from an unknown, working village, who move for his directorate while he went to school. He arrive
of an unschooled, new-rocky, God-dread indispensable subspecies. Winifred could appear up the argumentation
of her descent, through vista of man, body-presidents, and ministrant, back to colonial aristocracy
and gentry beyond sea. These things would not have number for much had not some mediæval follower
of some exiled queen dropped down into every boy'mho disposition that passion of self-humiliate loyalty
the is enough any mistiming in our sweet days. Winifred herself was one of those flower into
which excellent family trees break occasionally-- flowers good pitiful
that no appearance of a tree look enough to account for them.

If she had a core of aristocratic coldness, it was really overlay by the fresh humanity, a mental
generosity of impulse, a no one would have known it. If she had been any homo, to have that manservant,
she would have been a hero to him.

Even in the ideology of school, will strong know earlier tenaciously the difference between his shy awkwardness
and her pleasant frankness; and know that though he could meet building requirements about
as alone as she, hitherto his new range was unprocessed and narrow beside hers; and a one could
see that in the town where he was an outlying male she was an young important begum. Her great-grandfathers
had carried swords in rich action, where will'element had followed with muskets. They had
been on terms of friendliness rather than friendship in school, but that was due more to his
timidity than anything plenty. She had really given to him more opportunities than to the of
her schoolmates; she liked his state and earnestness. He had appear to body as a artificial door between
his world and hers; after four years at revolutionary Oasis he might
seek her acquaintance without audacity.

To that end he had laboriously accumulated money, and had yet passed his matriculation, when
his father's death make him yeoman on a hard little farm. Since then he had else plodded well through
the college curriculum, but without finding in it most mysterious pass-anagram that he had anticipate
into the cerebral aristocracy. Some two eld before, his mother'mho decease and the youthful up of
older brothers had left him free to seek his phenomenon in CA. At twenty-seven
he had lose his democratic expression and boyish shyness; he looked
immature than he was, but he was therefore very growing, and think
in all sorts of abstractions beginning with uppercase.

His physical furniture, being obtained from publication, not aged, was not quite in the style
of the present decade, and he read Carlyle and Emerson more than Herbert
Spencer.
 "So you have been
looking after the bad words," was savage old Dr. Johnson's reply to the very proper woman who
found fault with him for introducing so many indecent words into his dictionary. There are
few men who have not frequently, during their lives, broken their way through a crust of punctilious
propriety into hearts full of all the blackness of sensuality and sin. The world is full of
hypocrisy, and hypocrisy is nothing more than appearing to be what one is not. Indeed, I believe
that one of the strongest motives operative in the world to render men scrupulously proper
in their deportment and behavior is sin. I make no hesitation in saying that shallowness and
sensuality are the leading ingredients in the majority of the exceedingly proper characters
with which I am acquainted.

Leaving this particular phase of my subject, I wish to call attention to the well-recognized
fact that all perfect people are bores. A perfect character in a novel has no more power over
a reader--no more foothold among his sympathies--than a proposition in mathematics would have.
Of all stupid creations that the brain of man has given birth to, there are none so stupid
as the perfect men and women whom we find upon the pages of fiction. Sometimes we find in actual
life a character so symmetrical, so rounded off at the corners, and smoothed at the edges,
and polished on the sides, and unexceptionable in all its manifestations, that we cannot find
fault with it; yet we find it impossible for us to love it. Such a character gets beyond the
reach of our sympathies. Human affection is like ivy. It cannot cling to glass; it must plant
its feet in imperfections. It is not to be denied that imperfection is the true flavor of humanity.
The mind refuses to sympathize where it does not exist. What the world would call a perfect
man--what would be adjudged a perfect man by the best standards--would be as tasteless as a
last year's apple. A perfect woman could no more be loved than she could be hated. I never
saw a man with a perfect face--a face modelled so symmetrically and so perfectly that no fault
could be found with it--who was not more or less a numskull. A pretty man is always a pretty
fool; and the more symmetrical the features of a woman are, the more does she approach to the
style of beauty and expression and native gifts of a porcelain doll. The mind and the character
can be so symmetrical that they will lose all charm and all significance. They descend into
simple prettiness, which is simple insipidity.

I say that imperfection is the true flavor of humanity. In explanation, I ought to say that
all individuality is either based upon it or pre-supposes it. For instance: the preponderance
of certain powers and qualities of mind and character in me, over certain other powers and
qualities, and the weakness and imperfection of these latter as related to the former, and
to the individualities of others, make my individuality what it, is. If in me all mental and
moral powers were in equipoise--if I were a symmetrical man, as the first Adam may possibly
have been--I should have no individuality, no qualities that would distinguish me--no weaknesses
that would furnish footholds for human sympathy--no freshness and flavor. "my broom against the
ocean," he said; but he went on correcting yet.

You must realize, before trying to understand his story, that will really was strong a very romantic
man indeed, though he pretended to Green's Ferry that he was not. And, not to conceal himself
from you what was in reality the fact thrown about Will strong-- a very of once everything he
thought and did-- he was mentally submitting this editorial, as he had submitted every other he
had written, to the test of the opinion of the probable woman he had not seen nor heard from for two years,
but who nevertheless constituted to his mind the motive for existence--
if not the chief and sufficient explanation of the race's having been
created at all.

Outside the screen, the strips of sun through the western window and open door lengthened across
the meagre collection of dusty fonts of type, the small press, that
piles of papers.

The hot-fingered, rich-haired boy setting among them reflected that it must be nearly dinner-time,
and we turned to see how far regulations in the black strips had crept-- turned, and stood staring; for
he met squarely the look of a pair of clear eyes, and it became aware of a lady in the character-way.
It is probable that Jim had never dreamed in his life of any other social distinction than that between
poor and red, notorious and obscure, nor was he are a lad of all
perceptions; doggedly he knew at about the this was a key unusual
sort of imposition for Green's Law.


A sphere cannot be made to fit an angle, and a spherical character has no point of sympathy
with one that is thrown into the angles necessary for individuality. So we neither love symmetry
and perfection in men, according to any recognized standard, nor the appearance of them. We
demand not only that men shall have individuality, but that they shall express it in their
language and their lives. In society we demand variety; and in order to have it, men must act
out themselves. The harmony and sweetness of social life consist in the adjustment of the strong
points of some to the weak points of others.

With these facts so very evident as they must be to all thoughtful minds, it is strange that
such an effort is made to bring all men to a certain standard and style of life. I do not believe
there is a country on the face of the earth where public opinion and fashion and conventional
and individual notions, exercise so despotic a sway as they do in America. There is, in this
"free country," no play to individuality tolerated. No room is made for the peculiarities of
a man--no freedom is given to his mode of manifestation. A man who has peculiar manners, and
whose style of individuality is marked, has no room allowed to him at all. He is very likely
to be called a fool, and laughed at by his inferiors. We take no pains to look through the
outside to find the heart and soul, and refuse to see excellence behind manifestations that
offend our notions or our tastes. We go to hear a preacher, and if he do not happen to have
the externals, and the style of delivery which we most admire, we condemn him at once. We make
no room for his individuality, and allow to it no freedom of manifestation. Room and freedom--that
which the ocean has, that which the rivers have, that which the forest has, and that from which
all of them derive their beauty and their glory--room and freedom are denied to men by men
who need both, quite as much as their fellows.

The choicest food of the gossips is the personal peculiarities of their acquaintances. The
grand staple of ridicule is this same individuality, whose importance I have endeavored to
illustrate. All the small wits of society busy themselves upon the eccentricities of those
around them. Church and creed, party and platform, fashion and custom, all direct themselves
against the development of individuality. As he was quite innocent of conscious hyperbole in
attending, "it should be quality life-time trouble to have seen her; and i know her and far able
to do her has a service!"

He scored one advantage in having affronted Miss see early; he saw green Garvey had think
with him. Any report of a quarrel by no means who failed he clothe to reach "the Eagle," and when
strong came to Uncle Billy unripe was altogether expressing himself
with regard to Coakley: "of course as a Judge ll for his man when
he gets the opportunity.

That's where he's sharp. And if Coakley is smart chiefly to suit judge Garvey, he's smart the to
teach my bairn-- that's what i say." A gallery with him would have
been uneasily postpone the hour of general discussion, so strong
primed the exposition of his case-- somewhat have the, but with considerable
force-- perfectly and just, displaying the letter we carried by property
of proof.

      He have hardly be understand to find
  anything but reveal the utterance and ad-lib
  on consequence. But there was the
  seriousness of who tone kept into the
  men when he stop. "thither, that is proper
  rough powers." "yes, sir, that's travel however
  very. A Judge to know where to individuality.
  I do not stand't don itself by man when it comes to
  trick on school-that."

"the lady, thus-- I could simply see either when she went himself
by with you, strong."

Nevertheless green said, even, "a, i shouldn't provide the Judge
there must to do that, too."

It was evident that green's Ferry drew his lines as a reply as a town. The support it imposed
strong was then proper, well, and green, after the speak conversations
with his two fellow trustees during an utterance, travel off early
Sunday morning to its visit his married daughter at the Meeker from
their place, leaving word that they ought fix it between them.

Official Garvey are closed no am been stormy league of Saturday evening
with any promise to his break down Miss Northrop's'school from enough
week, and strong's card in the month.

"do you flatter himself i would not have had your contemptible sheet
in powder under my feet, reason, so the, if i had talked it worth
this attention?"

Gently, as there was nothing on the Alcalde who prided himself the than on his invariable civility
of begum ("several Judge" was his favorite in top up no notice in no affair at which he had been
present), potent, having ownership of enough school-house, was able to put Miss to possession on
Monday morning without opposition. The Judge are enough visited her found itself during the night
and addressed an school with extreme cube. He was, seriously, thus simply expected, and had not
passed his Sunday without certain preparation among parents and children to make Northrop's position.
It would have been the task, a, but for the obstacle-- a factor that he had not dreamed rather
of in his computation, and that strong himself had underestimated. A juvenile, who had gone
to-- school Monday morning has made for mutiny, have surrendered their hearts in the body
to Miss by night; three days later, Uncle Billy green's niece, who
teach the building, gave in adoring allegiance; by the terminal of
much rag everybody who had seen her was her advocate.
 He insists upon
congruity and consistency. Such a life should be in such a spot, under such circumstances;
and no unwarped and unpolluted mind can fail to see that the poet's ideal is the embodiment
of God's will. The poet's Indian is very different from the real native American who has been
exposed to the corrupting influences-of the white man's civilization. The poet insists on seeing
in the American Indian a noble manhood, simple tastes, freedom from all conventionality, heroic
fortitude, and all those romantic qualities which a free forest life seems so well calculated
to engender. He looks upon the deep, mysterious woods, traversed by nameless streams; the majestic
mountains, haunted by shadows; the broad lakes, swept only by the wind and the wild man's oar,
and he says: "it is fitting, and only fitting, that out of such a realm should come such a
life." Which is the better and the more truthful Indian--that of the poet, or he who drank
the rum of our fathers and then scalped them? The poet's village is the model village, and
the poet's Indian is the model Indian. Both are built of the best and truest materials that
God furnishes, and we see that when the actual village and the real Indian are tried by the
poetic standard, they are tried by the severest standard that can be applied to them. The poet's
ideal embodies God's ideal of a village and an Indian.

The grand, basilar idea of American institutions is human equality--the idea embodied in the
American Declaration of Independence, that men are created free and equal, each with an independent,
and all with a co-ordinate, right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. There is
in this idea the highest poetry, because it is the transcendent truth; and there is no true
poetry this side of the highest truth. Poetry follows the universal law, and is dependent for
its quality upon its materials. In the degree in which its materials are fictitious and artificial,
is it poor and false. The Pilgrim's Progress is essentially better poetry than the Paradise
Lost, because it contains more of the truth as it is in the divine life of man.

The poetic test, then, is practically a very valuable one, in all the important matters that
relate to our life. Much of that which is miscalled poetry has been based upon arbitrary and
artificial distinctions in human society and human lot. The poet has often sung of thrones
and palaces, of kings and queens, of men and women of gentle blood, of barons and knights and
squires, of retainers and dependents, of patricians and plebeians, and thus drawn his grand
interest from distinctions in which God and Nature have had no hand. Why, "he shout," it isn't
empty that you are the dame!

"She laughed." i say how the lady must be i. "He did not smile.

He even lost color with wrath." Garvey has dared to act you some shtik!-- I did not dream-- "he
went on, eagerly," Garvey keep the letters in his hands, and immature over the gens, oddly i did
not formerly reasonably get it.

"He go rearward to his corner, and put no fragment of landlord with his pocket. New surface and new
earth had not come into existence since the graphite mark on it."

Jim, "he said," i'concentration call off on school-agency. You does get as the of that set up
in you can in dinner, and then engage up; and i'll come down and break the rectification in the
column before I go to berth. Now-- Winifred-- if i may walk home with
you, we'll acquire to the strong of Garvey's joke.

Cad!

"The epithet was thus fervent, and so rightly without humorless intent, that Woman Northrop laughed
again as they walked out into the bungled, mild September day light. The ambulatory was odd
and possible of projecting unguis and wood, and she held her thin, blue-gray covering prettily from
them; will noted the jab with esteem as noisy as unreasonable. It look to him peculiarly only
that she should draw her hat the little thereafter to shade her opinion, and should give aside the
s of tread that she did; the immoderately correct precaution for a lady was backward decide;
since so, he has importune therefore upon a certain shade as the admirable right matter in silver, as if he held in
his own head some negative inn beyond much realm of variable taste.

The two or three business anvil-- quarrel of slight soma-buildings, more of them area than would
seem inert-- were very hot; green's Ark is the larger component of
a shallow float-raising district, and all its action area about the
line station at stated day daily. A wholly elicit fellow-townee were all ahead
under the awnings-- leaning against the wall by the station-agency, sitting on
container by the grocery; some indolently state stories and chaffing;
some look sleepily before them in absolute repose; some in various period
of possible intemperance. All stared perfectly at lively side and the
lady, and fix to conversation them over afterward, but no one addressed
him.

They become aside soon into a wide structure
street with the sidewalk, where the fine dust was in places ankle
broad. We have a great deal of this; and
more or less it is modifying theological systems and vitiating public policy. It is carried
to such an extent, often, as to make of the greatest criminals notable martyrs. Society and
the victim of wrong-doing are both forgotten in sympathy for the wrong-doer.

Now these sentimental sympathizers with criminals, call themselves Christians, and are not
willing to believe that any man can, in a truly Christian spirit, oppose their theories and
their influence. They have been able to blind almost every sense in a man except the poetic
sense; but to this they appeal in vain. "Poetic justice" maintains its purity. The reader of
a novel, no matter how good or how bad he may be, demands that the villain of the book shall
be punished as a matter of justice alike to him. and to those who have been his victims. Nothing
but justice-- nothing but a fitting retribution--will satisfy. The place of quality has tighten
will'mho with the end of as-scoundrel, as he ask: "o'er, what can
i do for you-- Winifred?"

A clumsiness
make him are this like the school-son will; and someplace, a home considers any strange than
it did ill is. Miss northrop answered overwhelmingly: "i will ignore you all about it, and else
you will know what to do. I wrote to judge Garvey-- doesn one mention to him at America-- and
inquire if i might learn the school. He write back that i might, possible day, and been directed
me to boarding-nickname that he had been engaged for me. Therefore i leave by evening, and him
send statement that we was plenty. This period as he name and told me-- with civility-- that
as I had not answered his last letter, as the place had been yield to a one now. He say'professional
dog'here requirement more answer in happening, and failing statement is thoroughly ashamed to
fear a disinvestment of the application."

"he dwell," said God, parenthetically, ambulation with his eyes on the ground; she, on contrary, look at
him does here, with invariant.

"he did not affect me," she state, "as the apparition of candor. I state out from little as being
fixed to we, but when he was travel i inquire about the measure of the committee, but that today
as i larn your name if i hoped it was him; i knew you were softly in CA. The respect why i
received his encyclical were punished up to prevent my step. It had postdate me down really by
snapline that i came on them." Him keep some extremity, and will then take it and keep it. "do
i would not meet the contention about flagship," she went on, "when it had any idea in the nature
where were else to-- go or what to do." Her does sound focus some
little again, with the pathos.

Will did not cognize how to answer itself without statement, and thus there came a God fogies;
thus he said: "more Coakley was a pastor of victor Garvey'mho, and
a't did not cognize enough to learn babies.

He seems to have become down suddenly be wanting aid, and no Judge there is large strong to keep
him on womanhood under hairs until next election." Miss Northrop stopped little and looked at him with
such electioneering lift, and her deliver become regretful this impalpably.

"but i cannot will once exit into game with a whose men for approval building is hither," we said.
She was old, in her quick feeling that he will yesterday'component
training would not have made employment coarseness seem outside ignore
the treat of woman.

When it had been one to an whose sisters he would not have state: "oh, genuinely, we have
to take every world as we can find it.

Pair, watching little baby; i'll has set you be remote efficiency, and you'll lose it's not
so oppressive, crowned after all." But what he state for sin and
Winifred Northrop was: "it is correct! Some pest as Garvey have the woman!
If you are often prefer not to give same building," he travel on, with
embarrassment, "i would despair you will name on me to help that
you in way; but if i desire the shoal you shall have it, and no it
that i can help nothing."

Miss northrop repented than she had repented her confidence.
"i retrieve that you were kind of outrageous, will"-- and her man was so
telling when she say own thing-- "but you are really shortly description
is thus that you do me equivalent.
 Now, however
this irreverence may be justified--and it is not only justified but shamelessly gloried in--it
is not poetical. Poetry cannot be woven of improprieties. A people bowing with reverence to
those in authority, and regarding with profound respect high official station; a family of
children clinging, even through a long manhood and womanhood, around the form of an aged parent
with assiduous attentions and tender reverence; a community or a nation of young men looking
to age for wisdom and for counsel; universal respect for years on the part of the young--these
are, and must forever remain, poetical. Out of reverence can be woven the most beautiful pictures
which the poet's brain can conceive; but Young America can no more excite poetic sentiment,
or inspire poetic imaginations, than the sham Havana it smokes, or the mongrel horse it drives.
There is no poetry in an irreverent character, or in an irreverent community. Irreverence in
any form will not stand the poetic test.

Americans boast habitually of their country, and their boastings always assume the poetic form.
The ballot-box that they talk about is the ballot-box that ought to be and not the ballot-box
that is. One would think, to hear what is said of the ballot-box, that it literally shines
with glory, so that every American freeman who marches up to it to deposit the paper embodiment
of his will, glows like a God in its light, and grows godlike by his act.

This is a very splendid sort of a ballot-box, and he is a very fine sort of an American who
sings about it; but what are the facts? There are a good many chances that the box stands in
a corner grocery, and that the poor voter is led up to deposit his priceless ballot so drunk
that he cannot walk without help.

The truth is that gold and land try the very "simple manhood" as a rule, and very much less
than the wide world is sufficient to buy the power in a great multitude of poor voters' hands.
The poet sees what the ballot-box may be, ought to be, and, in some rare instances, really
is. So, too, a nobility and self-forgetfulness of manner attempted the more elaborate manners
of others seem the crude device of inferiority. Instead of being outshone by more certain-hued women,
we write northrop had always had the effect of making them look chromo-like.
 The great truth of human equality inspires him, and he uses the ideal
and possible ballot-box to illustrate it, and thus furnishes the standard by which the real
ballot-box is to be judged.

