Images of the original pages are available through
      the collection of Facsimile Books & Other Digitally
      Enhanced Works, The University Of Georgia Libraries.      By Alice W. Cooley                              7

Chapter One.        The Primitive Loom                               13

Chapter Two.        A Chat on Weaving                                22

Chapter Three.      First Steps in Weaving                           30

Chapter Four.       Methods of Stringing Warp                        42

Chapter Five.       Materials                                        51

Chapter Six.        Directions for Dyeing                            58

Chapter Seven.      Methods of Splicing Materials for Weaving        83

Chapter Eight.      Wool and Silkoline Rugs or Mats                  86

Chapter Nine.       Hammocks                                         93

Chapter Ten.        Face and Dish Cloths and Bath Rugs               99

Chapter Eleven.     Raffia Mats                                     101

Chapter Twelve.     Oriental Rugs                                   122

Chapter Thirteen.   Navajo Blankets                                 135

Chapter Fourteen.   Songs, Games, and Stories                       143

Chapter Fifteen.    A List of Helpful Books and Magazine Articles   153

The Index                                                             159

    The highest
    aim of art is
    to make some
    useful thing
    beautiful.

    Kenyon Cox.

AN INTRODUCTION

For many years we, the teachers of the United States assembled in village, city, State, and
national conventions, have recited our creed and chanted it in all keys.

[Sidenote: Our creed]

We believe that man is a trinity, three in one--head, heart, and hand, one soul made manifest;
we believe that this union is vital and indissoluble, since "what God hath joined together"
may not be rent asunder; we believe that this three-fold man, being "put to school" on earth
to grow, may devise and bring to successful issue no scheme of education that is out of harmony
with the plan of the Creator.

Congratulating ourselves upon our ready and distinct utterance of this lofty thought, we have
calmly returned to our man-devised book-schools for the acquisition of knowledge, in order
to forward some plan for the accumulation of more knowledge.

[Sidenote: Deeds, not words, are now necessary]

But "wisdom lingered"! Here and there voices were raised that would not be silenced: "You sang
your beautiful song; what are you going to do about it?" In the words of John Stuart Mill,
"It is now time to assert in deeds, since the power of words is well-nigh exhausted."

Investigators, studying this union of head and hand from the physiological side, hurled truths
at us that startled us from our lethargy.

[Sidenote: Physiological truths]

Every stimulus poured into nerve cells through the avenues of the senses tends to pass out
in motor action, which causes muscular movement. In every idea are vitally united the impression
and the tendency to expression in action. The nervous system consists of the fibres which carry
currents inward, the organs of central redirection, and the fibres which carry them outward--sensation,
direction, action. Since control means mental direction of this involuntary discharge of energy
(directed muscular movement), control of the muscles means development of will as well as of
skill. To prevent or cut off the natural outflow of nervous energy results in fatigue and diseased
nerves. Unrestrained and uncontrolled expenditure of nervous energy results in lawlessness
and weakened will.

Men of science said: "These are facts about man. What account have you made of them in your
elaborate system for educating him?"

Students of sociological and economic problems called out to us as the teachers of men:

[Sidenote: Labor must be respected]

These great problems concerning the relation of labor and capital (the brotherhood of man)
will never be solved until there is greater respect for labor; greater appreciation of the
value of the products of labor; until there is more joy to the worker in his labor, which should
be the expression through his hand, of the thought of his head, and the feeling of his heart;
until labor is seen in its true light, as service; until the man with money as well as the
man without learns through experience to respect and appreciate labor and its products. "We
absorb only so much as we can interpret in terms of our own active experience."

What contributions are our schools making to the bettering of social and industrial conditions?

To create, to make something, is the instinct of divinity in humanity, the power that crowns
man as divine.

    "It is his impulse to create
    Should gladden thee." 

Mrs. Noughton turned her head the other way and did not see Sadie, and the poor little woman shyly
hesitated for a moment as if they were cold aliens to whom she does not know whether to speak
to as alien or not, but Rene went with the two officers down the
hall where she was there alone.

"Madame
Noughton," she said softly and touched her arm with her finger tip.
Mrs. Noughton slowly turned her head and looked at her.



[Sidenote: Systematic hand-training the work of to-day]

At last we are awake, and throughout the country we are trying to heed these calls, and to
revive our own weakened thought by action, singing our creed in deeds. Upon the foundations
laid by Friedrich Froebel and his students in the kindergarten, we are trying to build up a
course in systematic hand-training, through the primary, to intermediate and grammar grades,
and thence to manual training in the high schools. What to do and how to do it has now become
the practical problem of the day. Everywhere the wide-awake primary teacher is sharing her
thought and experience with her co-workers.

For little children, the what must utilize material suitable for little fingers, and tools
must be large. The finished product should belong to the maker, or be made by him as a service
rendered to others; the result should also be worthy of keeping or giving, from the view-points
of both beauty and utility.

Another important factor is the adaptation to present public-schoolroom conditions, and to
present public-school treasury conditions.

[Sidenote: Weaving the best hand work for primary schools]

More thoughtful study has led to the abandonment of the old-time sewing and fine handwork in
kindergarten and primary school. In its place we find the weaving of useful and beautiful articles,
out of various available materials, and with simple, primitive tools--allowing always for much
and varied use of the great tools, the fingers.

It is interesting to note that teachers in all parts of the country, working independently
of each other, have come to practically the same conclusions, viz., that under present conditions,
weaving seems the best basis for a systematic course in industrial work that shall train head
and heart as well as hand. It is also of great interest to remember that the signboards along
the pathway of race development, by means of work, exchange of labor and its products, all
point to this idea as the entering gateway. Weaving is the first industry of all primitive peoples.

[Sidenote: This manual the result of study and experience]

Being practically agreed as to what shall be the first industrial work in the primary school,
the next great question is the how. With large numbers of little children in her own schoolroom,
the author of this manual has long sought a satisfactory answer. Believing that the results
of her study and experience will be helpful to others in suggesting possibilities, and in stimulating
thought, as well as in practical teaching and time-saving, she sends forth this little book
with the earnest hope that it may in these ways be of real service.

                                 ALICE W. COOLEY,

                  Critic Teacher and Instructor,
                     University of North Dakota.

    August 1st, 1902.

HAND-LOOM WEAVING

Chapter One

THE PRIMITIVE LOOM

[Sidenote: History of weaving]

Weaving, the oldest of the industrial arts, dates back so far that no one can say when or where
it had its beginning. We read in Genesis iii, 21, that when Adam was driven from the Garden
of Eden he wore a coat of skin; but, not long after, according to Professor Hurwitz, the descendants
of Adam wore an upper garment called the simla, which consisted of a piece of cloth about six
yards long and two or three wide, greatly resembling a blanket (Ashenhurst). This might have
been woven from vegetable fibres, perhaps from wool, but in what manner we do not know. The
warp and woof of linen and woolen garments is mentioned in Leviticus xiii, 47, 48.

[Sidenote: Dyeing]

Spinning and weaving have been practised by the Chinese, Hindoos, and Egyptians for thousands
of years and carried by them to great proficiency. The Israelites were probably familiar with
the art of weaving before their sojourn in Egypt, but it was there that they attained the skill
which enabled them to execute the hangings in the Tabernacle. Joseph's "coat of many colors"
is a proof that dyeing existed at a very early period, and the eloquent writings of Ezekiel
tell us of the beautiful colored cloths of Tyre and Damascus.

[Sidenote: Migration of weaving]

From the ancient world the art of weaving passed through Europe and became known in England
after the Roman conquest. No doubt primitive weaving with vegetable fibres, and perhaps with
wool, was known in a very crude way before that time. How the art developed, and how improvement
followed improvement, makes very interesting reading for the student of textile fabrics.

[Sidenote: Weaving as the first industrial art]

We know that weaving is the first industrial art practised by primitive peoples, from the fact
that it is found among the savages of Central Africa (Park) and the islands of the sea. "Clavigero,
in his history of Mexico, shows that on the conquest of that country, weaving was found to
be practised by the natives." (Ashenhurst.)

[Sidenote: Egyptian loom]

[Sidenote: Method of pushing the woof]

[Sidenote: Hindoo loom]

The Egyptians are supposed to have been inventors of the loom. There were two kinds in use,
one horizontal and the other perpendicular. Instead of a shuttle they used a stick with a hook
at one end, which was used also as a batten. Herodotus says that it was the practice of the
Egyptians to push the woof downwards, and this method is pictured in many paintings; but one
representation found at Thebes shows a man pushing it upwards. The former method is, I believe,
the one generally used by all nations, and it certainly seems the easier way. Martin's description
of a Hindoo loom in his "Circle of the Mechanical Arts" is interesting: "The loom consists
merely of two bamboo rollers, one for the warp and the other for the web, and a pair of gears.
The shuttle performs the double office of shuttle and batten, and for this purpose is made
like a huge netting needle, and of a length somewhat exceeding the breadth of the cloth. This
apparatus the weaver carries to a tree, under which he digs a hole large enough to contain
his legs and the lower part of the gear. He then stretches his warp by fastening his bamboo
rollers, at a due distance from each other on the turf, by wooden pins. The balance of the
gear he fastens to some convenient branch of the tree over his head. Two loops underneath the
gear, in which he inserts his great toes, serve instead of treadles, and his long shuttle,
which also performs the office of batten, draws the weft through the warp, and afterwards strikes
it up close to the web."

[Sidenote: Crude implements used by primitive peoples]

[Sidenote: Patience and dexterity necessary]

Ashenhurst says: "It is very evident that the implements used, not only by the early Egyptians,
but by other contemporaneous nations, and even by the Hindoos at the present time, were of
the rudest possible character, and nothing but the most exemplary patience, dexterity, and
great delicacy of hand, acquired by long traditionary habit, can account for the extraordinary
beauty and fineness of their textile productions." This exemplary patience, dexterity, and
great delicacy of hand is exactly what we claim that weaving develops in our children to-day.

[Sidenote: Primitive loom in the public schools]

[Sidenote: Its disadvantages]

The primitive loom, as it is made for use in the public schools, is familiar to almost every
teacher. It consists of a wooden frame, in the two ends of which are fastened brads at intervals
of half an inch. The warp is strung around these brads. There is no variation either in the
size of the rug or in the width of the warp to afford opportunity for different materials.
This is a decided objection, as a new frame has to be made every time a change is desired.
The first difficulty encountered is the drawing in of the sides of the rug, which is almost
impossible to avoid, even with the utmost care. Photographs of work in the leading educational
magazines, as well as samples of teachers' work, all show the same defect. The Indians obviate
this difficulty by twisting two stout cords in the edge of the woof during the process of weaving.
(See illustration on page 135.) In one school, where the work in this respect was fairly well
done, the teacher was asked how she accomplished the result. Her reply was, "Oh, I make them
pull it out every time it draws." Poor, patient little fingers! One can imagine the thoughts
which were woven into that imperfect rug by the discouraged little worker. Another disadvantage
of the primitive loom is that the child must bend over it while weaving, and if, by chance,
he turns it over to examine the other side of the work, the brads are apt to leave an unsightly
impression on the desk.

[Sidenote: Success in doing]

One of Froebel's fundamental principles is that a child should never be allowed to fail--that
his work should be so adapted that he will succeed every time, and that he should be led step
by step as his power grows, to something more difficult.

    "One thing is forever good,
    That one thing is success."

We have all experienced the joy of success in one way and another. Let us help the children
to have the same experience. 

The Senn was increasingly surprised. "But I'm up at dawn," he stated. "How about you?" Yesterday
around four or five o'clock, bleated the scared This, "Even the milker
wasn't up until long after that."

 In model schools, where
the classes are limited to ten, or sometimes fewer children, with one teacher and several assistants,
this idea, if carried out, is ideal, and perhaps practical. But what shall be said of the public-school
teacher who has fifty children and no assistants; or, which is even more objectionable, and
which is the case in many of our crowded schools, what of the teacher with two sessions of
fifty children each? It was the effort to solve a problem of this kind that led to the invention
of the Todd adjustable hand loom.

[Sidenote: Description of the Todd loom]

[Sidenote: The needle]

[Sidenote: Finishing the work]

[Sidenote: Removing the work]

The full size of the loom is 10 × 13 inches, upon which a rug 9 × 12 inches can be woven. It
is made adjustable to innumerable smaller square and oblong sizes, by two devices. To regulate
the length, the head piece, which is movable, can be let down on brass buttons, which are disposed
along the sides at intervals of an inch. Perforations are placed half an inch apart in the
head and foot pieces so that the side rods can be moved inward to regulate the width. They
also insure straight edges, since the woof threads are passed around them as the work progresses.
The rods also serve another important function as fulcrums upon which the needle may be pressed
up and down, so that it passes more easily over and under the successive warp strings. The
notches are one-sixteenth inch and the teeth one-eighth inch apart, giving opportunity for
warp one-half, three-eighths, and three-sixteenths inches wide. The loom has an easel support,
so that the pupil need not bend over it--an important consideration in school classes, and
in home work as well. This support makes it possible to use the loom for an easel in the painting
lessons, by resting a piece of pasteboard against it. The needle, which is longer than the
warp is wide, serves also as a heddle in pressing the woof threads together evenly. It is furnished
with an eye for worsted, chenille, carpet ravelings, or rope silk, and three slits for rags.
To thread the needle with rags, pass the strip up and down through the slits and back again
under the strip through the first slit. This binds the strip securely. In finishing the work
weave the last few woof threads with a large tape needle, putting it up and down, over one
thread at a time, as you would sew on canvas. It has been found desirable with children to
push about an inch of woof threads close to the head piece and then fill in the space. Care
should be taken not to pull the woof too tight. If these directions are followed and the warp
is strung correctly the strings will not slip out of the notches. In adjusting the loom it
will be found that the width from rod to rod is a little more than is required. For instance,
for a rug nine inches wide, the width from rod to rod will be about nine and one-half inches.
This is to allow for the springing together when the work is finished. 

"That would make me worry," laughed the sailor. "Even if I lifted off safely, a desertion in my
situation is just too damned dangerous. They'd get me again. I'd like to be each other, rather
than being stuck in only my own skin."

[Sidenote: For school and home work]

While a great deal of the work is intended for the schoolroom, many suggestions are given for
home weaving, in making various articles for birthday and holiday gifts.

Chapter Two

A CHAT ON WEAVING

[Sidenote: Weaving defined]

[Sidenote: Weaving trains both hands]

[Sidenote: The three-fold development]

Weaving is the art of interlacing threads, yarns, filaments, or strips of different material,
so as to form a cloth or fabric. It is an ideal occupation, not only for little children, but
for older ones as well, affording admirable opportunities for the development of head, hand,
and heart. It trains both hands in deftness and proves a delight to the left-handed child,
who for the joy of using his left hand again, will plod patiently across with the right. The
fat little hands soon learn to grasp the large needle, and the nerves and muscles of both hand
and arm are strengthened by daily use. Both hand and eye are trained in accuracy, and the training
in patience, perseverance, industry, economy in the use of materials, perception, concentration,
dexterity, and self-reliance cannot be overestimated. The heart, too, has its part in the joy
of giving to others, for the children are encouraged to make little gifts for the home. A consciousness
of power comes, also, with experience; and a sense of self-respect arises when the child realizes
that he is of some use in the world.

[Sidenote: Knowledge of principles necessary]

Lois Bates, in her "Kindergarten Guide," says that "in the manufacturing districts of England
great numbers of the children who pass through the elementary schools are employed in mills
where weaving is carried on, or enter textile schools to learn designing in cloth. If this
occupation of mat-weaving could be continued until the children had a thorough knowledge of
its principles, how much intelligence might be brought to bear on the actual weaving and how
much more pleasure might the worker draw from labor that is often looked upon as so much mechanical
drudgery!" The keynote for this is the thorough knowledge which is necessary, whether or not
our children are to enter textile schools. Whatever they do, let them do it thoroughly. It
should always be a question of quality, not quantity.

[Sidenote: Simple weaving the first essential]

[Sidenote: Mats as a preparation for loom weaving]

[Sidenote: Slat interlacing and splint work lead to basketry]

For this reason I have taken up, quite at length, the subject of first steps in weaving, believing
that children should be kept at simple weaving until they understand the principles thoroughly.
The felt and paper mats prepare the way for loom-weaving; the free paper weaving, and the slats
and splints for basketry. A few suggestions on the use of the slats and splints have been given
for two reasons: First, for the training which they afford in dexterity and great delicacy
of touch, to say nothing of exemplary patience; and second, because the preliminary training
for basketry should be given in the lower primary grades. The time necessary to train clumsy
fingers can hardly be taken from the regular work in grades where basketry is a prescribed course.

"Skill in the fundamental methods of weaving is essential even as the fingers must be trained
in music before the soul of the musician can find its expression. Make good baskets first,
simple in shape, strong in texture, suited to the purpose for which they are intended; unconsciously
they will grow beautiful. The most intricate basket will fail in its purpose if the joinings
are careless or flaws in workmanship permitted. If originality is within the weaver, it will
find its expression, once the principles of weaving are second nature." (C. S. Coles.) This
is also true of rug and mat weaving, for the aim of all training should be to bring out the
best there is in a child.

[Sidenote: "Devotedness to duty"]

    "The longer on this earth we live
    And weigh the various qualities of men,
    The more we feel the high, stern-featured beauty
    Of plain devotedness to duty;
    Steadfast and still, nor paid with mortal praise,
    But finding amplest recompense
    For life's ungarlanded expense
    In work done squarely and unwasted days."

               --James Russell Lowell.

[Sidenote: Weaving the foundation for designing]

[Sidenote: Honest work begets sympathy with labor]

[Sidenote: Interdependence in life]

