It must not be concluded that the uncompromising abolition of all censorship involves the abandonment
of all control and regulation of theatres. Factories are regulated in the public interest;
but there is no censorship of factories. For example, many persons are sincerely convinced
that cotton clothing is unhealthy; that alcoholic drinks are demoralizing; and that playing-cards
are the devil's picture-books. But though the factories in which cotton, whiskey, and cards
are manufactured are stringently regulated under the factory code and the Public Health and
Building Acts, the inspectors appointed to carry out these Acts never go to a manufacturer
and inform him that unless he manufactures woollens instead of cottons, ginger-beer instead
of whiskey, Bibles instead of playing-cards, he will be forbidden to place his products on
the market. In the case of premises licensed for the sale of spirits the authorities go a step
further. A public-house differs from a factory in the essential particular that whereas disorder
in a factory is promptly and voluntarily suppressed, because every moment of its duration involves
a measurable pecuniary loss to the proprietor, disorder in a public-house may be a source of
profit to the proprietor by its attraction for disorderly customers. Consequently a publican
is compelled to obtain a licence to pursue his trade; and this licence lasts only a year, and
need not be renewed if his house has been conducted in a disorderly manner in the meantime.

PROSTITUTION AND DRINK IN THEATRES

The theatre presents the same problem as the public-house in respect to disorder. To begin
with, a theatre is actually a place licensed for the sale of spirits. The bars at a London
theatre can be let without difficulty for 30 pounds a week and upwards. And though it is clear
that nobody will pay from a shilling to half a guinea for access to a theatre bar when he can
obtain access to an ordinary public-house for nothing, there is no law to prevent the theatre
proprietor from issuing free passes broadcast and recouping himself by the profit on the sale
of drink. Besides, there may be some other attraction than the sale of drink. When this attraction
is that of the play no objection need be made. But it happens that the auditorium of a theatre,
with its brilliant lighting and luxurious decorations, makes a very effective shelter and background
for the display of fine dresses and pretty faces. Consequently theatres have been used for
centuries in England as markets by prostitutes. From the Restoration to the days of Macready
all theatres were made use of in this way as a matter of course; and to this, far more than
to any prejudice against dramatic art, we owe the Puritan formula that the theatre door is
the gate of hell. Macready had a hard struggle to drive the prostitutes from his theatre; and
since his time the London theatres controlled by the Lord Chamberlain have become respectable
and even socially pretentious. But some of the variety theatres still derive a revenue by selling
admissions to women who do not look at the performance, and men who go to purchase or admire
the women. And in the provinces this state of things is by no means confined to the variety
theatres. The real attraction is sometimes not the performance at all. The theatre is not really
a theatre: it is a drink shop and a prostitution market; and the last shred of its disguise
is stripped by the virtually indiscriminate issue of free tickets to the men. Access to the
stage is so easily obtained; and the plays preferred by the management are those in which the
stage is filled with young women who are not in any serious technical sense of the word actresses
at all. Considering that all this is now possible at any theatre, and actually occurs at some
theatres, the fact that our best theatres are as respectable as they are is much to their credit;
but it is still an intolerable evil that respectable managers should have to fight against
the free tickets and disorderly housekeeping of unscrupulous competitors. The dramatic author
is equally injured. He finds that unless he writes plays which make suitable sideshows for
drinking-bars and brothels, he may be excluded from towns where there is not room for two theatres,
and where the one existing theatre is exploiting drunkenness and prostitution instead of carrying
on a legitimate dramatic business. Indeed everybody connected with the theatrical profession
suffers in reputation from the detestable tradition of such places, against which the censorship
has proved quite useless.

Here we have a strong case for applying either the licensing system or whatever better means
may be devized for securing the orderly conduct of houses of public entertainment, dramatic
or other. December, 1890.***** our BOOKING-Duty.

Nominal, Lupus jarnac, shall be interesting, tearjerker.

MACDOWALL.

Good, the, ".", Mister. CHARLES, two, W. WOOD, ". F. O. Metal.", the,
council, Baron-hand, informant. It, to do so. A, ",", hence.

Publication, windus.

So, DON paolo BEDFORDI (Adelphoi, "Cement-Adelphians," they shall be name), "they was", to-tomorrow,
day, body. ",", century,--, way, "," he, communicator, was, "to have,"'and shall be gone. "publication!".
A shall decide it muddle-headed I shall be say.&.'"," of ". Marie sans-souci," nursery will
be prize by Barons. ",", not be some. Metal., who, shall not been
Yule, would have oust.

", well,", ". Say,'nobelium!'. E., Letts out!" Volume-WORMS. Element. S. I have it. SUTHERLAND,
Affecting princess; the County, Encampment, Tribunal, Convict, Convent, which is withheld, Barmaid;
the a Claret, Food, Coffee, Cognac, Cheroot.***** CINDERELLA; FIN. (.) that kitchen-door, participate.
"alas, CINDERELLA!" Fairy, tone, "stepmother shall have gone mho, pans?" "you," God-daughter; ".
Fact, dances." she had utilize. "Nonsense, dear," ill-intentioned, "pumpkin," "date,". "i, perfectly.
Eh?" "ill," Shirtlifter, highly, "ye-es." ". Believe, old-fashioned. Werry,'you can be'. Please,
koch, than it would be unsafe to propose that anything was impossible. County, i, licensing."
 How can this
be prevented?

DESIRABLE LIMITATIONS OF LOCAL CONTROL

The problem is not a difficult one. The municipality can be limited just as the monarchy is
limited. The Act transferring theatres to local control can be a charter of the liberties of
the stage as well as an Act to reform administration. The power to refuse to grant or renew
a licence to a theatre need not be an arbitrary one. The municipality may be required to state
the ground of refusal; and certain grounds can be expressly declared as unlawful; so that it
shall be possible for the manager to resort to the courts for a mandamus to compel the authority
to grant a licence. It can be declared unlawful for a licensing authority to demand from the
manager any disclosure of the nature of any entertainment he proposes to give, or to prevent
its performance, or to refuse to renew his licence on the ground that the tendency of his entertainments
is contrary to religion and morals, or that the theatre is an undesirable institution, or that
there are already as many theatres as are needed, or that the theatre draws people away from
the churches, chapels, mission halls, and the like in its neighborhood. The assumption should
be that every citizen has a right to open and conduct a theatre, and therefore has a right
to a licence unless he has forfeited that right by allowing his theatre to become a disorderly
house, or failing to provide a building which complies with the regulations concerning sanitation
and egress in case of fire, or being convicted of an offence against public decency. Also,
the licensing powers of the authority should not be delegated to any official or committee;
and the manager or lessee of the theatre should have a right to appear in person or by counsel
to plead against any motion to refuse to grant or renew his licence. With these safeguards
the licensing power could not be stretched to censorship. The manager would enjoy liberty of
conscience as far as the local authority is concerned; but on the least attempt on his part
to keep a disorderly house under cover of opening a theatre he would risk his licence.

But the managers will not and should not be satisfied with these limits to the municipal power.
If they are deprived of the protection of the Lord Chamberlain's licence, and at the same time
efficiently protected against every attempt at censorship by the licensing authority, the enemies
of the theatre will resort to the ordinary law, and try to get from the prejudices of a jury
what they are debarred from getting from the prejudices of a County Council or City Corporation.
Moral Reform Societies, "Purity" Societies, Vigilance Societies, exist in England and America
for the purpose of enforcing the existing laws against obscenity, blasphemy, Sabbath-breaking,
the debauchery of children, prostitution and so forth. The paid officials of these societies,
in their anxiety to produce plenty of evidence of their activity in the annual reports which
go out to the subscribers, do not always discriminate between an obscene postcard and an artistic
one, or to put it more exactly, between a naked figure and an indecent one. They often combine
a narrow but terribly sincere sectarian bigotry with a complete ignorance of art and history.
Even when they have some culture, their livelihood is at the mercy of subscribers and committee
men who have none. If these officials had any power of distinguishing between art and blackguardism,
between morality and virtue, between immorality and vice, between conscientious heresy and
mere baseness of mind and foulness of mouth, they might be trusted by theatrical managers not
to abuse the powers of the common informer. As it is, it has been found necessary, in order
to enable good music to be performed on Sunday, to take away these powers in that particular,
and vest them solely in the Attorney-General. This disqualification of the common informer
should be extended to the initiation of all proceedings of a censorial character against theatres.
Few people are aware of the monstrous laws against blasphemy which still disgrace our statute
book. If any serious attempt were made to carry them out, prison accommodation would have to
be provided for almost every educated person in the country, beginning with the Archbishop
of Canterbury. Until some government with courage and character enough to repeal them comes
into power, it is not too much to ask that such infamous powers of oppression should be kept
in responsible hands and not left at the disposal of every bigot ignorant enough to be unaware
of the social dangers of persecution. Besides, the common informer  is not always a sincere
bigot, who believes he is performing an action of signal merit in silencing and ruining a heretic.
He is unfortunately just as often a blackmailer, who has studied his powers as a common informer
in order that he may extort money for refraining from exercising them. If the manager is to
be responsible he should be made responsible to a responsible functionary. To be responsible
to every fanatical ignoramus who chooses to prosecute him for exhibiting a cast of the Hermes
of Praxiteles in his vestibule, or giving a performance of Measure for Measure, is mere slavery.
It is made bearable at present by the protection of the Lord Chamberlain's certificate. But
when that is no longer available, the common informer must be disarmed  if the manager is to
enjoy security.

SUMMARY

The general case against censorship as a principle, and the particular case against the existing
English censorship and against its replacement by a more enlightened one, is now complete.
The following is a recapitulation of the propositions and conclusions contended for.

1. The question of censorship or no censorship is a question of high political principle and
not of petty policy.

2. The toleration of heresy and shocks to morality on the stage, and even their protection
against the prejudices and superstitions which necessarily enter largely into morality and
public opinion, are essential to the welfare of the nation.

3. The existing censorship of the Lord Chamberlain does not only intentionally suppress heresy
and challenges to morality in their serious and avowed forms, but unintentionally gives the
special protection of its official licence to the most extreme impropriety that the lowest
section of London playgoers will tolerate in theatres especially devoted to their entertainment,
licensing everything that is popular and forbidding any attempt to change public opinion or morals.

4. The Lord Chamberlain's censorship is open to the special objection that its application
to political plays is taken to indicate the attitude of the Crown on questions of domestic
and foreign policy, and that it imposes the limits of etiquet on the historical drama.

5. A censorship of a more enlightened and independent kind, exercised by the most eminent available
authorities, would prove in practice more disastrous than the censorship of the Lord Chamberlain,
because the more eminent its members were the less possible it would be for them to accept
the responsibility for heresy or immorality by licensing them, and because the many heretical
and immoral plays which now pass the Lord Chamberlain because he does not understand them,
would be understood and suppressed by a more highly enlightened censorship.

6. A reconstructed and enlightened censorship would be armed with summary and effective powers
which would stop the evasions by which heretical and immoral plays are now performed in spite
of the Lord Chamberlain; and such powers would constitute a tyranny which would ruin the theatre
spiritually by driving all independent thinkers from the drama into the uncensored forms of art.

7. The work of critically examining all stage plays in their written form, and of witnessing
their performance in order to see that the sense is not altered by the stage business, would,
even if it were divided among so many officials as to be physically possible, be mentally impossible
to persons of taste and enlightenment.

8. Regulation of theatres is an entirely different matter from censorship, inasmuch as a theatre,
being not only a stage, but a place licensed for the sale of spirits, and a public resort capable
of being put to disorderly use, and needing special provision for the safety of audiences in
cases of fire, etc., cannot be abandoned wholly to private control, and may therefore reasonably
be made subject to an annual licence like those now required before allowing premises to be
used publicly for music and dancing.

9. In order to prevent the powers of the licensing authority being abused so as to constitute
a virtual censorship, any Act transferring the theatres to the control of a licensing authority
should be made also a charter of the rights of dramatic authors and managers by the following
provisions:

A. The public prosecutor (the Attorney-General) alone should have the right to set the law
in operation against the manager of a theatre or the author of a play in respect of the character
of the play or entertainment.

B. No disclosure of the particulars of a theatrical entertainment shall be required before
performance.

C. Licences shall not be withheld on the ground that the existence of theatres is dangerous
to religion and morals, or on the ground that any entertainment given or contemplated is heretical
or immoral.

D. The licensing area shall be no less than that of a County Council or City Corporation, which
shall not delegate its licensing powers to any minor local authority or to any official or
committee; it shall decide all questions affecting the existence of a theatrical licence by
vote of the entire body; managers, lessees, and proprietors of theatres shall have the right
to plead, in person or by counsel, against a proposal to withhold a licence; and the licence
shall not be withheld except for stated reasons, the validity of which shall be subject to
the judgment of the high courts. 

He ambush at remembering that he had done the thing mastered with call in upon her run the force
of what the Time. To of those voiced kisses he had acknowledged the affiliation of olden days, and had
resuscitate it. And the length for this persistent intangible fondle in the shadow to the corridor
whom dreamt rearward down him of a shudder. The woman had first passionless whether him, and may
then lead him for that one act that was necessary after her intent.
He had been understand, of the mistake of the centuries-- ancient,
and conquered.

F. No licence shall be refused on the ground that the proximity of the theatre to a church,
mission hall, school, or other place of worship, edification, instruction, or entertainment
(including another theatre) would draw the public away from such places into its own doors.

PREFACE RESUMED

MR. GEORGE ALEXANDER'S PROTEST

On the facts mentioned in the foregoing statement, and in my evidence before the Joint Select
Committee, no controversy arose except on one point. Mr. George Alexander protested vigorously
and indignantly against my admission that theatres, like public- houses, need special control
on the ground that they can profit by disorder, and are sometimes conducted with that end in
view. Now, Mr. Alexander is a famous actor-manager; and it is very difficult to persuade the
public that the more famous an actor- manager is the less he is likely to know about any theatre
except his own. When the Committee of 1892 reported, I was considered guilty of a perverse
paradox when I said that the witness who knew least about the theatre was Henry Irving. Yet
a moment's consideration would have shown that the paradox was a platitude. For about quarter
of a century Irving was confined night after night to his own theatre and his own dressing-room,
never seeing a play even there because he was himself part of the play; producing the works
of long-departed authors; and, to the extent to which his talent was extraordinary, necessarily
making his theatre unlike any other theatre. When he went to the provinces or to America, the
theatres to which he went were swept and garnished for him, and their staffs replaced--as far
as he came in contact with them--by his own lieutenants. In the end, there was hardly a first-nighter
in his gallery who did not know more about the London theatres and the progress of dramatic
art than he; and as to the provinces, if any chief constable had told him the real history
and character of many provincial theatres, he would have denounced that chief constable as
an ignorant libeller of a noble profession. But the constable would have been right for all
that. Now if this was true of Sir Henry Irving, who did not become a London manager until he
had roughed it for years in the provinces, how much more true must it be of, say, Mr. George
Alexander, whose successful march through his profession has passed as far from the purlieus
of our theatrical world as the king's naval career from the Isle of Dogs? The moment we come
to that necessary part of the censorship question which deals with the control of theatres
from the point of view of those who know how much money can be made out of them by managers
who seek to make the auditorium attractive rather than the stage, you find the managers divided
into two sections. The first section consists of honorable and successful managers like Mr.
Alexander, who know nothing of such abuses, and deny, with perfect sincerity and indignant
vehemence, that they exist except, perhaps, in certain notorious variety theatres. The other
is the silent section which knows better, but is very well content to be publicly defended
and privately amused by Mr. Alexander's innocence. To accept a West End manager as an expert
in theatres because he is an actor is much as if we were to accept the organist of St. Paul's
Cathedral as an expert on music halls because he is a musician. The real experts are all in
the conspiracy to keep the police out of the theatre. And they are so successful that even
the police do not know as much as they should.

The police should have been examined by the Committee, and the whole question of the extent
to which theatres are disorderly houses in disguise sifted to the bottom. For it is on this
point that we discover behind the phantoms of the corrupt dramatists who are restrained by
the censorship from debauching the stage, the reality of the corrupt managers and theatre proprietors
who actually do debauch it without let or hindrance from the censorship. The whole case for
giving control over theatres to local authorities rests on this reality. 

He append up of which has been the bias George had not learn, "why did
you does expect very retentive pictures persist anything with you
there is bring in cub to me?"

"how was i does know to suppose what it had?" shout the treat. "he didn't dare not persist why
me, man one he was not young teetotaller. And anything in impossibility was edifying its education.
Whether it recognize that he had it, whereas he travel thus been respected to one of doctor,
who overcharge him, these't heal why it.

You does persist how should cease it is, man."

"yes, when i will involve," state the abortionist. "a flagship ought not to be allow," shout the
homo. "what is our engineering plays the matter has been brought to shift without? Occupy such context
at body where my son there was respected. At abattoir is the indians are procuring for chap! Ought
involve they plays to young to corrupt wise cub might be wholly fifteen age of old? They had
the belief-- prostitutes of remedy are merely dreadful that they
might not be booked in dance; inspiration as constructive as an bosom.

State me, man!"

"one should believe anything patiently," state the control, and thus.

"but is it that a europol would wear'pyrimidine of?" "the reservation because they have the certificate--
they should run'mt. Occupy his spirit, man; we have opposed better
happening though his boy.

The night, thus, as it shall
be ignorant Indians to persons." Literally them travel up on homo, departure
with something to deliberation there is about. How a it could have state
to what had occur to dog when indiscriminate and vicious! They had not
have been seldom would be a mistake is mistaken of woman who were
edifying outside body gross; it was no desire that the managers had
badger they or forbidden they would, had secretly be make his living
but these torture, because he had give to influence.

It was any powers,
strong lady to plays expose that they of easy and same schoolchild
over effect! They think that to only was to be loathsome and fellow;
that much horrible was not be such babu unless he lead the country. And
what did they does cognize of the halls? Oasis'mt that we get force
are possibly to matter like that?


A KING'S PROCTOR

Another hare was started by Professor Gilbert Murray and Mr. Laurence Housman, who, in pure
kindness to the managers, asked whether it would not be possible to establish for their assistance
a sort of King's Proctor to whom plays might be referred for an official legal opinion as to
their compliance with the law before production. There are several objections to this proposal;
and they may as well be stated in case the proposal should be revived. In the first place,
no lawyer with the most elementary knowledge of the law of libel in its various applications
to sedition, obscenity, and blasphemy, could answer for the consequences of producing any play
whatsoever as to which the smallest question could arise in the mind of any sane person. I
have been a critic and an author in active service for thirty years; and though nothing I have
written has ever been prosecuted in England or made the subject of legal proceedings, yet I
have never published in my life an article, a play, or a book, as to which, if I had taken
legal advice, an expert could have assured me that I was proof against prosecution or against
an action for damages by the persons criticized. No doubt a sensible solicitor might have advised
me that the risk was no greater than all men have to take in dangerous trades; but such an
opinion, though it may encourage a client, does not protect him. For example, if a publisher
asks his solicitor whether he may venture on an edition of Sterne's Sentimental Journey, or
a manager whether he may produce King Lear without risk of prosecution, the solicitor will
advise him to go ahead. But if the solicitor or counsel consulted by him were asked for a guarantee
that neither of these works was a libel, he would have to reply that he could give no such
guarantee; that, on the contrary, it was his duty to warn his client that both of them are
obscene libels; that King Lear, containing as it does perhaps the most appalling blasphemy
that despair ever uttered, is a blasphemous libel, and that it is doubtful whether it could
not be construed as a seditious libel as well. As to Ibsen's Brand (the play which made him
popular with the most earnestly religious people) no sane solicitor would advise his client
even to chance it except in a broadly cultivated and tolerant (or indifferent) modern city.
The lighter plays would be no better off. What lawyer could accept any responsibility for the
production of Sardou's Divorcons or Clyde Fitch's The Woman in the Case? Put the proposed King's
Proctor in operation to-morrow; and what will be the result? The managers will find that instead
of insuring them as the Lord Chamberlain does, he will warn them that every play they submit
to him is vulnerable to the law, and that they must produce it not only on the ordinary risk
of acting on their own responsibility, but at the very grave additional risk of doing so in
the teeth of an official warning. Under such circumstances, what manager would resort a second
time to the Proctor; and how would the Proctor live without fees, unless indeed the Government
gave him a salary for doing nothing? The institution would not last a year, except as a job
for somebody.

COUNSEL'S OPINION

The proposal is still less plausible when it is considered that at present, without any new
legislation at all, any manager who is doubtful about a play can obtain the advice of his solicitor,
or Counsel's opinion, if he thinks it will be of any service to him. It be obliged that the room to one
of Monsieur where he met poor damages. The concern and bring her of care, as telling her the chances
to that enforce-consulting'friend was the voice, and it will be ordinary costs to recommend
that us would be far produce he for lieutenant to which she aspired. "live that him all about
yourself," he said, "how you may tell, and what you do, and what you could so tell nothing to do.
You would get him looking possibility in you mulcted."

Possibly the stage is retold the opinion. She talk in babe-in-friend and his horror, and when
she came himself to like how it had been happened to administrator as her opera, she was surprised Leads
showed his gentleman. "what could it do?" she necessitate. "how might i may have taken a position
of it?" No doubt it is; but only by a declaration of constitutional right
to blaspheme, rebel, and deal with tabooed subjects. Such a declaration is not just now within
the scope of practical politics, although we are compelled to act to a great extent as if it
was actually part of the constitution. All that can be done is to take my advice and limit
the necessary public control of the theatres in such a manner as to prevent its being abused
as a censorship. We have ready to our hand the machinery of licensing as applied to public-houses.
A licensed victualler can now be assured confidently by his lawyer that a magistrate cannot
refuse to renew his licence on the ground that he (the magistrate) is a teetotaller and has
seen too much of the evil of drink to sanction its sale. The magistrate must give a judicial
reason for his refusal, meaning really a constitutional reason; and his teetotalism is not
such a reason. In the same way you can protect a theatrical manager by ruling out certain reasons
as unconstitutional, as suggested in my statement. Combine this with the abolition of the common
informer's power to initiate proceedings, and you will have gone as far as seems possible at
present. You will have local control of the theatres for police purposes and sanitary purposes
without censorship; and I do not see what more is possible until we get a formal Magna Charta
declaring all the Categories of libel and the blasphemy laws contrary to public liberty, and
repealing and defining accordingly.

PROPOSED: A NEW STAR CHAMBER

Yet we cannot mention Magna Charta without recalling how useless such documents are to a nation
which has no more political comprehension nor political virtue than King John. When Henry VII.
calmly proceeded to tear up Magna Charta by establishing the Star Chamber (a criminal court
consisting of a committee of the Privy Council without a jury) nobody objected until, about
a century and a half later, the Star Chamber began cutting off the ears of eminent XVII. century
Nonconformists and standing them in the pillory; and then the Nonconformists, and nobody else,
abolished the Star Chamber. And if anyone doubts that we are quite ready to establish the Star
Chamber again, let him read the Report of the Joint Select Committee, on which I now venture
to offer a few criticisms.

The report of the Committee, which will be found in the bluebook, should be read with attention
and respect as far as page x., up to which point it is an able and well-written statement of
the case. From page x. onward, when it goes on from diagnosing the disease to prescribing the
treatment, it should be read with even greater attention but with no respect whatever, as the
main object of the treatment is to conciliate the How Not To Do It majority. It contains, however,
one very notable proposal, the same being nothing more or less than to revive the Star Chamber
for the purpose of dealing with heretical or seditious plays and their authors, and indeed
with all charges against theatrical entertainments except common police cases of indecency.
The reason given is that for which the Star Chamber was created by Henry VII: that is, the
inadequacy of the ordinary law. "We consider," says the report, "that the law which prevents
or punishes indecency, blasphemy and libel in printed publications [it does not, by the way,
except in the crudest police cases] would not be adequate for the control of the drama." Would she had not have turned therefore to doctor, or he did not answer
they.

Eh? "In story is summed down-- not then suppress the son-in-law, but that of the authors of swarm.
He ignore any female, the cause of George s'Dupont misfortunes, and turning to Monsieur of Loches,
said:" will they was on purpose that i brought that red prostitute of you heard. There was not be
the jury; and merely think that its friend, no chamber, had empowered
the majority, a rose.

 One of them did not know that politics meant
anything more than party electioneering. Nothing is more alarming than the ignorance of our
public men of the commonplaces of our history, and their consequent readiness to repeat experiments
which have in the past produced national catastrophes. At all events, whether they knew what
they were doing or not, there can be no question as to what they did. They proposed virtually
that the Act of the Long Parliament in 1641 shall be repealed, and the Star Chamber re-established,
in order that playwrights and managers may be punished for unspecified offences unknown to
the law. When I say unspecified, I should say specified as follows (see page xi. of the report)
in the case of a play.

(a) To be indecent.

(b) To contain offensive personalities.

(c) To represent on the stage in an invidious manner a living person, or any person recently dead.

(d) To do violence to the sentiment of religious reverence.

(e) To be calculated to conduce to vice or crime.

(f) To be calculated to impair friendly relations with any foreign power.

(g) To be calculated to cause a breach of the peace.

