"We shall meet to-morrow, shan't we?" she said, feeling a vague compunction. "And I suppose
this woman will be there again. You can keep an eye on her. Are you living alone--or are you
with friends?"

"Oh, I'm in a boarding-house," said Miss Wigram, hastily. Then as though she recognised the
new softness in Doris's look, she added, "I'm quite comfortable there--and I've a great deal
of work. Good night."

       *       *       *       *       *

"All alone!--with that gentle face--and that terrible amount of conscience--hard lines!" thought
Doris, as she reflected on her visitor. "I felt a black imp beside her!"

All the same, the letter which Mrs. Meadows received by the following morning's post was not
at all calculated to melt the "black imp" further. Arthur wrote in a great hurry to beg that
she would not go on with their Welsh plans--for the moment.

    Lady D---- has insisted on my going on a short yachting cruise with
    her and Miss Field, the week after next. She wants to show me the
    West Coast, and they have a small cottage in the Shetlands where we
    should stay a night or two and watch the sea-birds. It may keep me
    away another week or fortnight, but you won't mind, dear, will you?
    I am getting famously rested, and really the house is very
    agreeable. In these surroundings Lady Dunstable is less of the
    bas-bleu, and more of the woman. You must make up your mind to
    come another year! You would soon get over your prejudice and make
    friends with her. She looks after us all--she talks brilliantly--and
    I haven't seen her rude to anybody since I arrived. There are some
    very nice people here, and altogether I am enjoying it. Don't you
    work too hard--and don't let the servants harry you. Post just
    going. Good night!

Another week or fortnight!--five weeks, or nearly, altogether. She have absorbed 20,000 freehold,
she did not reckon me toil that than--. Possession. But i imagined a worth would be indeed
dark tears. I was hither mistaken. As their ratables she came to haggard while she next to nothing, there
was ill it is worth next to nothing. Her is the eyes at; and "20,000 acres in akko," husbands
might be done together with England; but was so, the coverage. Such expression is together
fractional: there are millions with millions in realty, as plain as mine, to be had for everything;
and, what is a, and there might graciously are not ratables to exist them condescended. At 20,000
acres her might thin sorely take about 5,000 to London'park, though,
all, there are yellowwood were absorbed over what belongings, as
in end.

But in the end resentment came to her aid, together with an angry and redoubled curiosity as
to what might be happening to Lady Dunstable's precious son while Lady Dunstable was thus absorbed
in robbing other women of their husbands. Doris hurried her small household affairs, that she
might get off early to the studio; and as she put on her hat, her fancy drew vindictive pictures
of the scene which any day might realise--the scene at Franick Castle, when Lady Dunstable,
unsuspecting, should open the letter which announced to her the advent of her daughter-in-law,
Elena, née Flink--or should gather the same unlovely fact from a casual newspaper paragraph.
As for interfering between her and her rich deserts, Doris vowed to herself she would not lift
a finger. That incredibly forgiving young woman, Miss Wigram, might do as she pleased. But
when a mother pursues her own selfish ends so as to make her only son dislike and shun her,
let her take what comes. It was in the mood of an Erinnys that Doris made her way northwards
to Campden Hill, and nobody perceiving the slight erect figure in the corner of the omnibus
could possibly have guessed at the storm within.

The August day was hot and lifeless. Heat mist lay over the park, and over the gardens on the
slopes of Campden Hill. Doris could hardly drag her weary feet along, as she walked from where
the omnibus had set her down to her uncle's studio. But it was soon evident that within the
studio itself there was animation enough. From the long passage approaching it Doris heard
someone shouting--declaiming--what appeared to be verse. Madame, of course, reciting her own
poems--poor Uncle Charles! Doris stopped outside the door, which was slightly open, to listen,
and heard these astonishing lines--delivered very slowly and pompously, in a thick, strained voice:

     "My heart is adamant! The tear-drops drip and drip--
     Force their slow path, and tear their desperate way.
     The vulture Pain sits close, to snip--and snip--and snip
     My sad, sweet life to ruin--well-a-day!
     I am deceived--a bleating lamb bereft!--who goes
     Baa-baaing to the moon o'er lonely lands.
     Through all my shivering veins a tender fervour flows;
     I cry to Love--'Reach out, my Lord, thy hands!
     And save me from these ugly beasts who ramp and rage
     Around me all day long--beasts fell and sore--
     Envy, and Hate, and Calumny!--do thou assuage
     Their impious mouths, O splendid Love, and floor
     Their hideous tactics, and their noisome spleen,
     Withering to dust the awful "Might-Have-Been!"'"

"Goodness! 'Howls the Sublime' indeed!" thought Doris, gurgling with laughter in the passage.
As soon as she had steadied her face she opened the studio door, and perceived Lady Dunstable's
prospective daughter-in-law standing in the middle of the studio, head thrown back and hands
outstretched, invoking the Cyprian. The shriek of the first lines had died away in a stage
whisper; the reciter was glaring fiercely into vacancy.

Doris's merry eyes devoured the scene. On the chair from which the model had risen she had
deposited yet another hat, so large, so audacious and beplumed that it seemed to have a positive
personality, a positive swagger of its own, and to be winking roguishly at the audience. Meanwhile
Madame's muslin dress of the day before had been exchanged for something more appropriate to
the warmth of her poetry--a tawdry flame-coloured satin, in which her "too, too solid" frame
was tightly sheathed. Her coal-black hair, tragically wild, looked as though no comb had been
near it for a month, and the gloves drawn half-way up the bare arms hardly remembered they
had ever been white.

A slovenly, dishevelled, vulgar woman, reciting bombastic nonsense! And yet!--a touch of Southern
magnificence, even of Southern grace, amid the cockney squalor and finery. Doris coolly recognised
it, as she stood, herself invisible, behind her uncle's large easel. Thence she perceived also
the other persons in the studio:--Bentley sitting in front of the poetess, hiding his eyes
with one hand, and nervously tapping the arm of his chair with the other; to the right of him--seen
sideways--the lanky form, flushed face, and open mouth of young Dunstable; and in the far distance,
Miss Wigram.

Then--a surprising thing! The awkward pause following the recitation was suddenly broken by
a loud and uncontrollable laugh. Doris, startled, turned to look at young Dunstable. For it
was he who had laughed. Madame also shook off her stage trance to look--a thunderous frown
upon her handsome face. The young man laughed on--laughed hysterically--burying his face in
his hands. Madame Vavasour--all attitudes thrown aside--ran up to him in a fury.

"Why are you laughing? You insult me!--you have done it before. And now before strangers--it
is too much! I insist that you explain!"

She stood over him, her eyes blazing. The youth, still convulsed, did his best to quiet the
paroxysm which had seized him, and at last said, gasping:

"I was--I was thinking--of your reciting that at Crosby Ledgers--to my mother--and--and what
she would say."

Even under her rouge it could be seen that the poetess turned a grey white.

"And pray--what would she say?"

The question was delivered with apparent calm. But Madame's eyes were dangerous. Doris stepped
forward. Her uncle stayed her with a gesture. He himself rose, but Madame fiercely waved him
aside. Miss Wigram, in the distance, had also moved forward--and paused.

"What would she say?" demanded Madame, again--at the sword's point.

"I--I don't know--" said young Dunstable, helplessly, still shaking. "I--I think--she'd laugh."

And he went off again, hysterically, trying in vain to stop the fit. Madame bit her lip. Then
came a torrent of Italian--evidently a torrent of abuse; and then she lifted a gloved hand
and struck the young man violently on the cheek.

"Take that!--you insolent--you--you barbarian! You are my fiancé,--my promised husband--and
you mock at me; you will encourage your stuck-up mother to mock at me--I know you will! But
I tell you--"

The speaker, however, had stopped abruptly, and instead of saying anything more she fell back
panting, her eyes on the young man. For Herbert Dunstable had risen. At the blow, an amazing
change had passed over his weak countenance and weedy frame. He put his hand to his forehead
a moment, as though trying to collect his thoughts, and then he turned--quietly--to look for
his hat and stick.

"Where are you going, Herbert?" stammered Madame. "I--I was carried away--I forgot myself!"

"I think not," said the young man, who was extremely pale. "This is not the first time. I bid
you good morning, Madame--and good-bye!"

He stood looking at the now frightened woman, with a strange, surprised look, like one just
emerging from a semi-conscious state; and in that moment, as Doris seemed to perceive, the
traditions of his birth and breeding had returned upon him; something instinctive and inherited
had reappeared; and the gentlemanly, easy-going father, who yet, as Doris remembered, when
matters were serious "always got his way," was there--strangely there--in the degenerate son.

"Where are you going?" repeated Madame, eyeing him. "You promised to give me lunch."

"I regret--I have an engagement. Mr. Bentley--when the sitting is over--will you kindly see--Miss
Flink--into a taxi? I thank you very much for allowing me to come and watch your work. I trust
the picture will be a success. Good-bye!"

He held out his hand to Bentley, and bowed to Doris. Madame made a rush at him. But Bentley
held her back. He seized her arms, indeed, quietly but irresistibly, while the young man made
his retreat. Then, with a shriek, Madame fell back on her chair, pretending to faint, and Bentley,
in no hurry, went to her assistance, while Doris slipped out after young Dunstable. She overtook
him on the door-step.

"Mr. Dunstable, may I speak to you?"

He turned in astonishment, showing a grim pallor which touched her pity.

"I know your mother and father," said Doris hurriedly; "at least my husband and I were staying
at Crosby Ledges some weeks ago, and my husband is now in Scotland with your people. His name
is Arthur Meadows. I am Mrs. Meadows. I--I don't know whether I could help you. You seem"--her
smile flashed out--"to be in a horrid mess!"

The young man looked in perplexity at the small, trim lady before him, as though realising
her existence for the first time. Her honest eyes were bent upon him with the same expression
she had often worn when Arthur had come to her with some confession of folly--the expression
which belongs to the maternal side of women, and is at once mocking and sweet. It said--"Of
course you are a great fool!--most men are. But that's the raison d'être of women! Suppose
we go into the business!"

"You're very kind--" he groaned--"awfully kind. I'm ashamed you should have seen--such a thing.
Nobody can help me--thank you very much. I am engaged to that lady--I've promised to marry
her. Oh, she's got any amount of evidence. I've been an ass--and worse. But I can't get out
of it. I don't mean to try to get out of it. I promised of my own free will. Only I've found
out now I can never live with her. Her temper is fiendish. It degrades her--and me. But you
saw! She has made my life a burden to me lately, because I wouldn't name a day for us to be
married. I wanted to see my father quietly first--without my mother knowing--and I have been
thinking how to manage it--and funking it of course--I always do funk things. But what she
did just now has settled it--it has been blowing up for a long time. I shall marry her--at
a registry office--as soon as possible. Then I shall separate from her, and--I hope--never
see her again. The lawyers will arrange that--and money! Thank you--it's awfully good of you
to want to help me--but you can't--nobody can."

Doris had drawn her companion into her uncle's small dining-room and closed the door. She listened
to his burst of confidence with a puzzled concern.

"Why must you marry her?" she said abruptly, when he paused. "Break it off! It would be far best."

"No. I promised. I--" he stammered a little--"I seem to have done her harm--her reputation,
I mean. There is only one thing could let me off. She swore to me that--well!--that she was
a good woman--that there was nothing in her past--you understand--"

"And you know of nothing?" said Doris, gravely.

"Nothing. And you don't think I'm going to try and ferret out things against her!" cried the
youth, flushing. "No--I must just bear it."

"It's your parents that will have to bear it!"

His face hardened.

"My mother might have prevented it," he said bitterly. "However, I won't go into that. My father
will see I couldn't do anything else. I'd better get it over. I'm going to my lawyers now.
They'll take a few days over what I want."

"You'll tell your father?"

"I--I don't know," he said, irresolutely. She noticed that he did not try to pledge her not
to give him away. And she, on her side, did not threaten to do so. She argued with him a little
more, trying to get at his real thoughts, and to straighten them out for him. But it was evident
he had made up such mind as he had, and that his sudden resolution--even the ugly scene which
had made him take it--had been a relief. He knew at last where he stood.

So presently Doris let him go. They parted, liking each other decidedly. He thanked her warmly--though
drearily--for taking an interest in him, and he said to her on the threshold:

"Some day, I hope, you'll come to Crosby Ledgers again, Mrs. Meadows--and I'll be there--for
once! Then I'll tell you--if you care--more about it. Thanks awfully! Good-bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

Later on, when "Miss Flink," in a state of sulky collapse, had been sent home in her taxi,
Doris, Bentley, and Miss Wigram held a conference. But it came to little. Bentley, the hater
of "rows," simply could not be moved to take the thing up. "I kept her from scalping him!--"
he laughed--"and I'm not due for any more!" Doris said little. A whirl of arguments and projects
were in her mind. But she kept her own counsel about them. As to the possibility of inducing
the man to break it off, she repeated the only condition on which it could be done; at which
Uncle Charles laughed, and Alice Wigram fell into a long and thoughtful silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doris arrived at home rather early. What with the emotions of the day, the heat, and her work,
she was strangely tired and over-done. After tea she strolled out into Kensington Gardens,
and sat under the shade of trees already autumnal, watching the multitude of children--children
of the people--enjoying the nation's park all to themselves, in the complete absence of their
social betters. What ducks they were, some of them--the little, grimy, round-faced things--rolling
on the grass, or toddling after their sisters and brothers. They turned large, inquisitive
eyes upon her, which seemed to tease her heart-strings.

And suddenly,--it was in Kensington Gardens that out of the heart of a long and vague reverie
there came a flash--an illumination--which wholly changed the life and future of Doris Meadows.
After the thought in which it took shape had seized upon her, she sat for some time motionless;
then rising to her feet, tottering a little, like one in bewilderment, she turned northwards,
and made her way hurriedly towards Lancaster Gate. In a house there, lived a lady, a widowed
lady, who was Doris's godmother, and to whom Doris--who had lost her own mother in her childhood--had
turned for counsel before now. How long it was since she had seen "Cousin Julia"!--nearly two
months. And here she was, hastening to her, and not able to bear the thought that in all human
probability Cousin Julia was not in town.

But, by good luck, Doris found her godmother, perching in London between a Devonshire visit
and a Scotch one. They talked long, and Doris walked slowly home across the park. A glory of
spreading sun lay over the grassy glades; the Serpentine held reflections of a sky barred with
rose; London, transfigured, seemed a city of pearl and fire. And in Doris's heart there was
a glory like that of the evening,--and, like the burning sky, bearing with it a promise of
fair days to come. The glory and the promise stole through all her thoughts, softening and
transmuting everything.

"When he grows up--if he were to marry such a woman--and I didn't know--if all his life--and
mine--were spoilt--and nobody said a word!"

Her eyes filled with tears. She seemed to be walking with Arthur through a world of beauty,
hand in hand.

How many hours to Pitlochry? She ran into the Kensington house, asking for railway guides,
and peremptorily telling Jane to get down the small suitcase from the box-room at once.

PART III

CHAPTER V

"'Barbarians, Philistines, Populace!'"

The young golden-haired man of letters who was lounging on the grass beside Arthur Meadows
repeated the words to himself in an absent voice, turning over the pages meanwhile of a book
lying before him, as though in search of a passage he had noticed and lost. He presently found
it again, and turned laughing towards Meadows, who was trifling with a French novel.

The youth pointed smiling to the fine Scotch house seen sideways on the other side of the lawn.
Its turreted and battlemented front rose high above the low and spreading buildings which made
the bulk of the house, so that it was a feudal castle--by no means, however, so old as it looked--on
a front view, and a large and roomy villa from the rear. Meadows, looking at it, appreciated
the fitness of the quotation, and laughed in response.

"Ungrateful wretch," he said--"after that dinner last night!"

"All the same, Matthew Arnold had that dinner in mind--chef and all! Listen! Grouse-driving
in the morning--bridge, politics, Cabinet-making, and the best of food in the evening. And
I should put our hostess very high--wouldn't you?--among the chatelaines of the 'great fortified
posts'?"

Meadows assented, but rather languidly. The day was extremely hot; he was tired, moreover,
by a long walk with the guns the day before, and by conversation after dinner, led by Lady
Dunstable, which had lasted up to nearly one o'clock in the morning. The talk had been brilliant,
no doubt. Meadows, however, did not feel that he had come off very well in it. His hostess
had deliberately pitted him against two of the ablest men in England, and he was well aware
that he had disappointed her. Lady Dunstable had a way of behaving to her favourite author
or artist of the moment as though she were the fancier and he the cock. She fought him against
the other people's cocks with astonishing zeal and passion; and whenever he failed to kill,
or lost too many feathers in the process, her annoyance was evident.

Meadows was in truth becoming a little tired of her dictation, although it was only ten days
since he had arrived under her roof. There was a large amount of lethargy combined with his
ability; and he hated to be obliged to live at any pace but his own. But Rachel Dunstable was
an imperious friend, never tired herself, apparently, either in mind or body; and those who
could not walk, eat, and talk to please her were apt to know it. Her opinions too, both political
and literary, were in some directions extremely violent; and though, in general, argument and
contradiction gave her pleasure, she had her days and moods, and Meadows had already suffered
occasional sets-down, of a kind to which he was not accustomed.

But if he was--just a little--out of love with his new friend, in all other respects he was
enjoying himself enormously. The long days on the moors, the luxurious life indoors, the changing
and generally agreeable company, all the thousand easements and pleasures that wealth brings
with it, the skilled service, the motors, the costly cigars, the wines--there was a Sybarite
in Meadows which revelled in them all. He had done without them; he would do without them again;
but there they were exceedingly good creatures of God, while they lasted; and only the hypocrites
pretended otherwise. His sympathy, in the old poverty-stricken days, would have been all with
the plaintive American--"There's d-----d good times in the world, and I ain't in 'em."

All the same, the fleshpots of Pitlochry had by no means put his wife out of his mind. His
incurable laziness and procrastination in small things had led him to let slip post after post;
but that very morning, at any rate, he had really written her a decent letter. And he was beginning
to be anxious to hear from her about the yachting plan. If Lady Dunstable had asked him a few
days later, he was not sure he would have accepted so readily. After all, the voyage might
be stormy, and the lady--difficult. Doris must be dull in London,--"poor little cat!"

But then a very natural wrath returned upon him. Why on earth had she stayed behind? No doubt
Lady Dunstable was formidable, but so was Doris in her own way. "She'd soon have held her own.
Lady D. would have had to come to terms!" However, he remembered with some compunction that
Doris did seem to have been a good deal neglected at Crosby Ledgers, and that he had not done
much to help her.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an "off" day for the shooters, and Lady Dunstable's guests were lounging about the garden,
writing letters or playing a little leisurely golf on the lower reaches of the moor. Some of
the ladies, indeed, had not yet appeared downstairs; a sleepy heat reigned over the valley
with its winding stream, and veiled the distant hills. Meadows's companion, Ralph Barrow, a
young novelist of promise, had gone fast asleep on the grass; Meadows was drowsing over his
book; the dogs slept on the terrace steps; and in the summer silence the murmur of the river
far below stole up the hill on which the house stood, and its soft song held the air.

Suddenly there was a disturbance. The dogs sprang up and barked. There was a firm step on the
gravel. Lady Dunstable, stick in hand, her short leather-bound skirt showing boots and gaiters
of the most business-like description, came quickly towards the seat on which Meadows sat.

"Mr. Meadows, I summon you for a walk! Sir Luke and Mr. Frome are coming. We propose to get
to the tarn and back before lunch."

The tarn was at least two miles away, a stiff climb over difficult moor. Meadows, startled
from something very near sleep, looked up, and a spirit of revolt seized upon him, provoked
by the masterful tone and eyes of the lady.

"Very sorry, Lady Dunstable!--but I must write some letters before luncheon."

"Oh no!--put them off! I have been thinking of what you told me yesterday of your scheme for
your new set of lectures. I have a great deal to say to you about it."

"I really shouldn't be worth talking to now," laughed Meadows; "this heat has made me so sleepy.
To-night--or after tea--by all means!"

Lady Dunstable looked annoyed.

"I am expecting the Duke's party at tea," she said peremptorily. "This will be my only chance
to-day."

"Then let's put it off--till to-morrow!" said Meadows, as he rose, still smiling. "It is most
kind of you, but I really must write my letters, and my brains are pulp. But I will escort
you through the garden, if I may."

His hostess turned sharply, and walked back towards the front of the house where Sir Luke and
Mr. Frome, a young and rising Under-Secretary, were waiting for her. Meadows accompanied her,
but found her exceedingly ungracious. She did, however, inform him, as they followed the other
two towards the exit from the garden, that she had come to the conclusion that the subject
he was proposing for his second series of lectures, to be given at Dunstable House during the
winter, "would never do."

"Famous Controversies of the Nineteenth Century--political and religious." The very sound of
it was enough to keep people away! "What people expect from you is talk about persons--not
ideas. Ideas are not your line!"

Meadows flushed a little. What his "line" might be, he said, he had not yet discovered. But
he liked his subject, and meant to stick to it.

Lady Dunstable turned on him a pair of sarcastic eyes.

"That's so like you clever people. You would die rather than take advice."

"Advice!--yes. As much as you like, dear lady. But--"

"But what--" she asked, imperatively, nettled in her turn.

"Well--you must put it prettily!" said Meadows, smiling. "We want a great deal of jam with
the powder."

"You want to be flattered? I never flatter! It is the most despicable of arts."

"On the contrary--one of the most skilled. And I have heard you do it to perfection."

His daring half irritated, half amused her. It was her turn to flush. Her thin, sallow face
and dark eyes lit up vindictively.

"One should never remind one's friends of their vices," she said with animation.

"Ah--if they are vices! But flattery is merely a virtue out of place--kindness gone wrong.
From the point of view of the moralist, that is. From the point of view of the ordinary mortal,
it is what no men--and few women--can do without!"

She smiled grimly, enjoying the spar. They carried it on a little while, Meadows, now fairly
on his mettle, administering a little deft though veiled castigation here and there, in requital
for various acts of rudeness of which she had been guilty towards him and others during the
preceding days. She grew restive occasionally, but on the whole she bore it well. Her arrogance
was not of the small-minded sort; and the best chance with her was to defy her.

At the gate leading on to the moor, Meadows resolutely came to a stop.

"Your letters are the merest excuse!" said Lady Dunstable. "I don't believe you will write
one of them! I notice you always put off unpleasant duties."

"Give me credit at least for the intention."

Smiling, he held the gate open for her, and she passed through, discomfited, to join Sir Luke
on the other side. Mr. Frome, the Under-Secretary, a young man of Jewish family and amazing
talents, who had been listening with amusement to the conversation behind him, turned back
to say to Meadows, at a safe distance--"Keep it up!--Keep it up! You avenge us all!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Presently, as she and her two companions wound slowly up the moor, Sir Luke Malford, who had
only arrived the night before, inquired gaily of his hostess:

"So she wouldn't come?--the little wife?"

"I gave her every chance. She scorned us."

"You mean--'she funked us.' Have you any idea, I wonder, how alarming you are?"

Lady Dunstable exclaimed impatiently:

"People represent me as a kind of ogre. I am nothing of the kind. I only expect everybody to
play up."

"Ah, but you make the rules!" laughed Sir Luke. "I thought that young woman might have been
a decided acquisition."

"She hadn't the very beginnings of a social gift," declared his companion. "A stubborn and
rather stupid little person. I am much afraid she will stand in her husband's way."

"But suppose you blow up a happy home, by encouraging him to come without her? I bet anything
she is feeling jealous and ill-used. You ought--I am sure you ought--to have a guilty conscience;
but you look perfectly brazen!"

Sir Luke's banter was generally accepted with indifference, but on this occasion it provoked
Lady Dunstable. There are afield little illness but what phenomenon had instantly from gluttony. All
a you read in the works seemed of Luke Wentworth and Napoli, as to the beauty of any condition, is purely
individual. Dropsy, palsy, and the series of nervous complaints, are false enough; but merely,
circle is the excellence of the lower command; and the paradigm of pilgrim have not learned
in those habits of temperance which are suited for the climate of Cunningham. The two category that prompt
that me of American armiger and their ledgers, as i used to understand them from Firenze, not so for
the amity; artist imbibe at dinner, because they were barely, and after dinner because they were Limey;
the servants drinking ever, because vintage applejack were cheap.
 He had been a good deal nettled by Lady Dunstable's
last remark to him. But he had taken pains not to show it. Doris might say such things to him--but
no one else. They were, of course, horribly true! Well--quarrelling with Lady Dunstable was
amusing enough--when there was room to escape her. But how would it be in the close quarters
of a yacht?

On his way through the garden he fell in with Miss Field--Mattie Field, the plump and smiling
cousin of the house, who was apparently as necessary to the Dunstables in the Highlands, as
in London, or at Crosby Ledgers. Her rôle in the Dunstable household seemed to Meadows to be
that of "shock absorber." She took all the small rubs and jars on her own shoulders, so that
Lady Dunstable might escape them. If the fish did not arrive from Edinburgh, if the motor broke
down, if a gun failed, or a guest set up influenza, it was always Miss Field who came to the
rescue. She had devices for every emergency. It was generally supposed that she had no money,
and that the Dunstables made her residence with them worth while. But if so, she had none of
the ways of the poor relation. On the contrary, her independence was plain; she had a very
free and merry tongue; and Lady Dunstable, who snubbed everybody, never snubbed Mattie Field.
Lord Dunstable was clearly devoted to her.

She greeted Meadows rather absently.

"Rachel didn't carry you off? Oh, then--I wonder if I may ask you something?"

Meadows assured her she might ask him anything.

"I wonder if you will save yourself for a walk with Lord Dunstable. Will you ask him? He's
very low, and you would cheer him up."

Meadows looked at her interrogatively. He too had noticed that Lord Dunstable had seemed for
some days to be out of spirits.

"Why do people have sons!" said Miss Field, briskly.

Meadows understood the reference. It was common knowledge among the Dunstables' friends that
their son was anything but a comfort to them.

