"What's your name?"

"Robert--Robert Stonehouse."

"Where do you come from?"

He had jerked his head vaguely in the direction of the hill, for he did not want her to know.

"Over there."

"Why are you crying?"

"I--I don't know."

"Would you like to play with us?"

"Yes--I--I think I would."

She had called the other children and they had come at once and stood round her, gazing wide-eyed
at him, not critically or unkindly, but like puppies considering a new companion.  The girl
in the green serge frock had taken him by the hand.

"This is a friend of mine, Robert Stonehouse.  He's going to play with us.  Tag--Robert!"

And she had tapped him on the arm and was off like a young deer.

All his awkwardness and shyness had dropped from him like a disguise. No one knew that he was
a strange little boy or that his father owed money to all the tradespeople.  He was just like
anyone else.  And he had run faster than the fastest of them.  He had wanted to show her that
he was not just a cry baby.  And whenever he had come near her he had been all warm with happiness.

In three days the nice children had become the Brothers Banditti with Robert Stonehouse as
their chief.  Having admitted the stranger into their midst he had gone straight to their heads
like wine.  He was a rebel and an outlaw who had suddenly come into power.  At heart he was
older than any of them.  He knew things about reversions and bailiffs and life generally that
none of them had ever heard of in their well-ordered homes.  He was strong and knew how to
fight.  The nice children had never fought but they found they liked it.  Once, like an avenging
Attila, he had led them across the hill and fallen upon his ancient enemies with such awful
effect that they never raised their heads again.  And the Banditti had returned home whooping
and drunk with victory and the newly discovered joy of battle.  His hand was naturally against
all authority.  He led them in dark plottings against their governesses and nursemaids, and
even against the Law itself as personified by an elderly, somewhat pompous policeman whose
beat included their territory.  On foggy afternoons they pealed the doorbells of such as had
complaint against them, and from concealment gloated over the indignant maids who had been
lured down several flights of stairs to answer their summons.  And no longer were they nice
children who returned home clean and punctual to the bosom of their families.

Very rarely had the Banditti showed signs of revolt against Robert's despotism, and each time
he had won them back with ease which sowed the first seeds of cynicism in his mind.  It happened
to be another of the elder Stonehouse's theories--which he had been known to expound eloquently
to his creditors--that children should be taught the use of money, and at such times as the
Stonehouse family prospered Robert's pocket bulged with sums that staggered the very imagination
of his followers.  He appeared among them like a prince--lavish, reckless, distributing chocolates
of superior lineage with a haughty magnificence that brought the disaffected cringing to his feet.

But even with them he was not really happy.  At heart he was still a strange little boy, different
from the rest.  There was a shadow over him.  He knew that apart from him they were nice, ordinary
children, and that he was a man full of sorrows and mystery and bitter experience.  He despised
them.  They could be bought and bribed and bullied.  But if he could have been ordinary as
they were, with quiet, ordinary homes and people who loved one another and paid their bills,
he would have cried with joy.

When he did anything particularly bold and reckless he looked out of the corners of his eyes
at Frances Wilmot to see if at last he had impressed her.  For she eluded him.  She never defied
his authority, and very rarely took part in his escapades.  But she was always there, sometimes
in the midst, sometimes just on the fringe, like a bird, intent on business of its own, coming
and going in the heart of human affairs.  Sometimes she seemed hardly to be aware of him, and
sometimes she treated him as though there were an unspoken intimacy between them which made
him glow with pride for days afterwards.  She would put her arm about him and walk with him
in the long happy silence of comradeship.  And once, quite unexpectedly, she had seemed gravely
troubled.  "Are you a good little boy, Robert?" she had asked, as though she really expected
him to know, and relieve her mind about it.

And afterwards he had cried to himself, for he was sure that he was not a good little boy at
all.  He was sure that if she knew about his father and the bailiffs she would turn away in
sorrow and disgust.

He knew that she too was different from the others, but with a greater difference than his
own.  He knew that the Banditti looked up to her for the something in her that he lacked, that
if she lifted a finger against him, his authority would be gone.  And the knowledge darkened
everything.  It was not that he cried about his leadership.  He would have thrown it at her
feet gladly.  But he longed to prove to her that if he was not a good little boy he was, at
any rate, a terribly fine fellow.  He had to make her look up to him and admire him like the
rest of the Banditti, otherwise he would never hold her fast.  And everything served to that
end.  Before her he swaggered monstrously. He did things which turned him sick with fear. 
Once he had climbed to the top of a dizzy wall in the ruins, and had postured on the narrow
edge, the bricks crumbling under him, the dust rising in clouds, so that he looked like a small
devil dancing in mid-air.  And when he had reached ground again he had found her reading a
book.  Then, the plaudits of the awestruck Banditti sounded like jeers.  Nothing had ever hurt
so much.

About the time that the Banditti first came into his life the vision of his mother began to
grow not less wonderful, but less distinct.  She seemed to stand a little farther off, as though
very gradually she were drawing away into the other world, where she belonged.  And often it
was Frances who played with him in his secret stories.

3

He threw his indoor shoes into the area.  In the next street, beyond pursuit, he sat down on
a doorstep and, put on his boots, lacing them with difficulty, for he was half blind with tears
and anger.  He could not make up his mind how to kill Edith.  Nothing seemed quite bad enough.
He thought of boiling her in oil or rolling her down hill in a cask full of spikes, after the
manner of some fairy story that Christine had told him.  It was not the pain, though his arm
felt as though it had been wrenched out of its socket, and the blood trickled in a steady stream
from his bumped forehead.  It was the indignity, the outrage, the physical humiliation that
had to be paid back.  It made him tremble with fury and a kind of helpless terror to realize
that, because he was little, any common woman could shake and beat him and treat him as though
he belonged to her.  He would tell his father. Even his father, who had so far forgotten himself
as to marry such a creature, would see that there were things one couldn't endure.  Or he would
call up the Banditti and plot a devastating retaliation.

In the meantime he was glad he had bitten her.

He walked on unsteadily.  The earth still undulated and threatened every now and then to rise
up like a wave in front of him and cast him down.   He was growing cold and stiff, too, in
the reaction.  He had stopped crying, but his teeth chattered and his sobs had degenerated
into monotonous, soul-shattering hiccoughs.  Passers-by looked at him disapprovingly.  Evidently
that nasty little boy from No. 10 had been fighting again.

He had counted on the Banditti, but the Banditti were not on their usual hunting-ground.  An
ominous silence answered the accustomed war-cry, uttered in an unsteady falsetto, and the ruins
had a more than usually dejected look, as though they had suddenly lost all hope of themselves.
He called again, and this time, like an earth-sprite, Frances Wilmot rose up from a sheltered
corner and waved to him.  She had a book in her hand, and she rubbed her eyes and rumpled up
her short hair as though rousing herself from a dream.

"I did hear you," she said, "but I was working something out.  I'll tell you all about it in
a minute.  But what's happened?  Why is your face all bleeding?"

She seemed so concerned about him that he was glad of his wounds.  And yet she had the queer
effect of making him want to cry again.  That wouldn't do.  She wouldn't respect him if he
cried.  He thrust his hands deep into his pockets and knitted his fair brows into a fearful
Stonehouse scowl.

"Oh, it's nothing.  I've had a row--at home.  That's all.  My father's new wife h-hit me--and
I b-bit her.  Jolly hard.  And then I fell downstairs."

"Why did she hit you?"

"Oh, I don't know.  She's just a beast----"

"Of course you know.  Don't be silly."

"Well, she said I'd been smoking, and I said I hadn't----"

"Had you?  You look awfully green."

"Yes, I had."

"What's the good of telling lies?"

"It's no good telling the truth," Robert answered stolidly.  "They only get crosser than ever.
She hadn't any right to hit me.  She's not even a relation."

"She's your step-mother."

He began to tremble again uncontrollably.

"She's n-not.  Not any sort of a mother.  My mother's dead."

It was the first time he had ever said it, even to himself.  It threw a chill over him, so
that for a moment he stopped thinking of Edith and his coming black revenge.  He had done something
that could never be undone.  He had closed and locked a great iron door in his mother's face.
"She's just a beast," he repeated stubbornly.  "I'd like to kill her."

Frances considered him with her head a little on one side.  It was like her not to enter into
any argument.  One couldn't tell what she was thinking.  And yet one knew that she was feeling
things.

"I'd wipe that blood off," she said.  "It's trickling on to your collar.  No, not with your
hand.  Where's your hanky?"

He tried to look contemptuous.  He did, in fact, despise handkerchiefs. The nice little girls
in the Terrace had handkerchiefs, ostentatiously clean.  He had seen them, and they filled
his soul with loathing.   Now he was ashamed.  It seemed that even Frances expected him to
have a handkerchief.

"I haven't got one," he said.

"How do you blow your nose, then?"

"I don't," he explained truculently.

She executed one of her queer little dances, very solemnly and intently and disconcertingly.
It seemed to be her way of withdrawing into herself at critical moments.  When she stopped
he was sure she had been laughing.  Laughter still twinkled at the corners of her mouth and
in her eyes. 

Culch. (vexed). It doesn't seem to be making any idea on you, i must say!
Podb.

It'frightfully cartography me deuced pained, i cognize that-- how
about long lunch, eh!

Culch. (keen). We are go through scenery like this, and all you believe something of is-- meal! (peckish
opens a basket.) you may take me one of those sandwiches. What made you acquire veal? and
this bread's all crust, altogether! Thanks, i'll remember some claret.... (they tiffin; the
vehicle too toils up to this head of the Walk.) Dear me, we'metal at
the top meanwhile! The material frozen up the valley very-- much colder
at these height, eh? Preceptor't you find the exhilarating air up
most podbury?

Podb. (chill). Oh
already, do you mind putting your clerestory away? Appreciation. You look
uncommon chirpy to-day.
A gust of April wind wagged them comically, and made mock of the sorrowful, grubby face underneath.
Even Frances, who was only nine herself, must have seen that the sorrow was not the ordinary
childish thing that came and went, leaving no trace.  In a way it was always there.  When he
was not laughing and shouting you saw it--a careworn, anxious look, as though he were always
afraid something might pounce out on him.  It ought to have been pathetic, but somehow or other
it was not.  For one thing, he was not an angel-child, bearing oppression meekly.  He was much
more like a yellow-haired imp waiting sullenly for a chance to pounce back, and the whole effect
of him was at once furtive and obstinate.  Indeed, anyone who knew nothing of the Stonehouse
temper and duns and forgotten birthdays would have dismissed him as an ugly, disagreeable little
boy.

But Frances Wilmot, who knew nothing of these things either, crouched down beside him, her
arm about his shoulder.

"Poor Robert!"

He began to hiccough again.  He had to clench his teeth and his fists not to betray the fact
that the hiccoughs were really convulsively swallowed sobs asserting themselves.  He wanted
to confide in her, but if she knew the truth about his home and his people she wouldn't play
with him any more.  She would know then that he wasn't nice.  And besides, he had some dim
notion of protecting her from the things he knew.

"You t-t-tied me up jolly well," he said.  "It's comfy now.  It was aching hard."

"I like tying up things," she explained easily, "You see, I'm going to be a doctor."

The rabbit's ears stopped waving for a minute in sheer astonishment.

"Girls aren't doctors."

"Yes, they are.  Heaps of them.  I'm reading up already, in that book. It's all about first-aid.
There's the bandage I did for you.  You can read how it's done."

He couldn't.  And he was ashamed again.  In his shame he began to swagger.

"My father's a doctor--awfully clever----"

"Is he?  How jolly!  Why didn't you tell me?  Has he lots of patients?"

"Lots.  All over the world.  But he doesn't think much of other doctors.  L-licensed h-humbugs,
he calls them."

She drew away a little, her face between her hands, and he felt that somehow he had failed
again--that she had slipped through his fingers. If only for a moment she had looked up to
him and believed in him the evil spirit that was climbing up on to his shoulders would have
fled away.  There was a stout piece of stick lying amidst the rubble at his feet, and he took
it up and felt it as a swordsman tests his blade.

"I'm going to be a doctor too," he said truculently.  "A big doctor.  I shall make piles of
money, and have three ass-assistants.  P'r'aps, if you're any good you shall be one of them."

She did not answer.  The intent, observing look had come into her eyes. The cool wind lifted
the brown hair so that it was like a live thing floating about her head.  She seemed as lovely
to him as his mother. He wanted terribly to say to her, "It's my birthday, Francey, and they
haven't even wished me many happy returns;" but that would have shown her how little he was,
and how unhappy.  Instead, he began to lunge and parry with an invisible opponent, talking
in a loud, fierce voice.

"I wish the others would come.  I've got a topping plan.  Edith goes shopping 'bout six o'clock
when it's almost dark.  We'll wait at the corner of John Street and jump out at her and shriek
like Red Indians. And then she'll drop dead with fright.  She's such a silly beast----"

Then to his amazement he saw that Francey had grown quite white.  Her mouth quivered.  It was
as though she were going to cry.  And he had never seen her cry.

"They--they aren't coming, Robert."

"N-not coming?  W-why not?"

"There's been a row.  Someone complained.  Their people won't let them come any more.  Not
to play with you.  They say--they say----"

He went on fighting, swinging his sword, over his head, faster and faster.  Someone was pressing
his heart so that he could hardly breathe.  It was all over.  They knew.  Everything was going.
Finished.

"What do they say?"

"They say you're not a nice little boy----"

There were some tall weeds growing out of the tumbled bricks.  He slashed at them through the
mist that was blinding him.  He would cut their heads off, one after another--just to show her.

"I don't care--I don't care----"

"That's why I waited this afternoon.  I wanted to tell you.  And that I'd come--if you liked--sometimes--as
often as I could----"

"I don't care--I don't care," he chanted.

One weed had fallen, cut in two as by a razor.  Now another.  You had to be jolly strong to
break them clean off like that.  He wasn't missing once.

"Don't!"

"I shall.  Why shouldn't I?  You couldn't do it like that."

Another.  No one to play with any more.  Never to be able to pretend again that one was just
like everyone else.  People drawing away and saying to each other, "He's not a nice little boy!"

"Please--please, don't, Robert!"

"Why not?  They're only weeds--beastly, ugly things."

"They've not done you any harm.  It's a shame to hurt them.  I like them."

"They're no good.  It's practice.  I'm a soldier.  I'm cutting the enemy to pieces."

A red rage was mounting in him.  He hardly knew that she had stood up until he saw her face
gleaming at him through the mist.  She was whiter than ever, and her eyes had lost their distant
look and blazed with an anger profounder, more deadly, than his own.

"You shan't!"

"Shan't I?"

She caught the descending stick.  He tried to tear it from her, and they fought each other
almost in silence, except for the sound of their quick, painful breath.  He grew frantic, twisting
and writhing.  He began to curse her as his father cursed Christine.  But her slim brown wrists
were like steel.  And suddenly, looking into her eyes he saw that she wasn't angry now.  She
knew that she was stronger than he. She was just sorry for him, for everything.

He dropped the stick.  He turned on his heel, gulping hard.

"I don't fight with girls," he said.

He walked away steadily with his head up.  He did not once look back at her.  But as he climbed
the hill he seemed to himself to grow smaller and smaller, more and more tired and lonely.
He had lost her.  He would never play with her again.  The Brothers Banditti had gone each
to his home.  They sat by the fireside with their people, and were nice children.  To-morrow
they would play just as though nothing had happened.  And Francey would be there, dancing in
and out----

He stumbled a little.  The hiccoughs were definitely sobs, hard-drawn, shaking him from head
to foot.  It was his birthday. I didn't mean the Moment, i meant-- (hesitating)-- well, your small
PRENDERGAST, him cognize. Culch.

My little affair? Get him sit to? (he abruptly realize.) oh, ah, with be dear shortcomings.
Yes, thank you, my sure fellow, it is not making me particularly
unhappy.  Even later in life, when things had shrunk into reasonable proportions, it
was difficult for him to see his father as others had seen him, as an unhappy not unlovable
man, gifted with an erratic genius which had been perverted into an amazing facility for living
on other people's money, and cursed with the temper of a maniac.  To Robert Stonehouse his
father was from first to last the personification of nightmare.

He stood now in the deep shadow of the porch, trying to make up his mind to ring the bell.
His legs and arms had become ice-cold and refused to move.  There did not seem to be anything
alive in him except his heart, which was beating all over him, in his throat and head and body,
with a hundred terrible little hammers.  He thought of the Prince in the story which Christine
had read aloud to him.  The Prince, who was a fine and dashing fellow, had gone straight to
the black enchanted cave where the dragon lived, and had thumped on the door with the hilt
of his gold sword and shouted: "Open, Sesame!"  And when the door opened, he had gone straight
in, without turning a hair, and slain the dragon and rescued the Princess.

Somehow the story did not make him braver.  He had no sword, and his clothes were not of the
finest silk threaded with gold.  He was a small boy in a patched sailor-suit, with a bandage
round his head and a dirty face--cold, hungry and buffeted by a day of storms.  He wished he
could stay there in the shadow until he died, and never have to fight anyone again, or screw
himself to face his father, or live through any more rows.  But it seemed you didn't die just
because you wanted to.  All that happened was that you grew colder and more miserable, knowing
that the row would be a great deal worse when it came.  Goaded by this reasoning, he crept
down the area steps to the back door which, by a merciful chance, had been left unlocked, and
made his way on tiptoe along the dark stone passage to the kitchen.

It was a servantless period.  But there was a light in the servants' living-room, and the red
comforting glow of a fire.  The bailiff lived there.  Robert could hear him shuffling his feet
in the fender, and sniffing and clearing his throat as though the silence bothered him, and
he were trying to make himself at home.  For a moment Robert longed to go in and sit beside
him, not saying anything, but just basking in the quiet warmth, protected by the presence of
the Law which seemed so astonishingly tolerant in the matter of the Stonehouse shortcomings.
For the bailiff was a good-natured man. Drat the bird!-- he grumbled of "the hurdy-gurdy marching-past
side of a soldier's life of peace." But the raven, sitting bust in that only-peeled lonely, spake
much on our Army as a makeshift, small, ill-manned, and precious poor.

But Robert had only scowled at him.  And even now, frightened as he was, he disdained all parley.
The bailiff was an enemy, and when it came to a fight the Stonehouse family stood shoulder
to shoulder. So he crept past the cheerful light like a hunted mouse, and up the stairs to
the green-baize door, which shut off the kitchen from the library and dining-room.

It was an important door.  Dr. Stonehouse had had it made specially to muffle sounds from the
servants' quarters whilst he was working.  He had never worked, and there had been very rarely
any servants to disturb him, but the door remained invested with a kind of solemnity. Among
other virtues it opened at a touch, itself noiseless.

To Robert it was the veritable entrance to the dragon's cave.  On one side of it everything
was dim and quiet.  And then it swung back, and you fell through into the dragon's clutches.
You heard the awful roar, and your heart fainted within you,

He fell over the top step.  He felt he was going to be sick again.  It was the old, familiar
sound.  He had heard it so often, it was so much part of his daily life that it ought not to
have frightened him.  But it was always new, always more terrifying.  Each time it had new
notes of incalculable menace.  It was like a brutal hammer, crashing down on bruised flesh
and shrinking, quivering nerves, never quite killing you, but with each blow leaving you less
capable of endurance.

His father, Christine and Edith were in the dining-room.  Robert knew they were all there,
though he could not see them.  The dining-room door at the end of the unlit passage stood half
open, showing the handsome mahogany sideboard and the two Chippendale chairs on either side
guarding it like lions.  They had a curious tense, still look, as though what they saw in the
hidden side of the room struck them stiff with astonishment and horror.

Dr. Stonehouse was speaking.  His voice was so low-pitched that Robert could not hear what
he said.  It was like the murderous, meaningless growling of a mad dog; every now and then
it seemed to break free--to explode into a shattering roar--and then with a frightful effort
to be dragged back, held down, in order that it might leap out again with a redoubled violence.
It was punctuated by the sharp, spiteful smack of a fist brought down into the open hand.

Edith whined and once Christine spoke, her clear still voice patient and resolute.

Robert crouched where he had fallen.  The baize door swung back, and touched him very softly
like a hand out of the dark.  It comforted him. It reminded him that he had only to choose,
and it would stand between him and this threatening terror--that it would give him time to
rush back down the stone stairs--out into the street--further and further till they would never
find him again.  But he could not move.  He couldn't leave Christine like that.  His heart
was sick with pity for her.  Why did his father speak to her like that?  Didn't he see how
good and faithful she was?  Didn't he know that he, Robert, his son, had no one else in the
whole world?

His father was speaking more clearly--shouting each word by itself.

"You understand what I say, Christine.  Either you do what I tell you, or you get out of here;
and, by God, this time you shan't come back. You'll never set eyes on him again."

"I shall always take care of Robert.  I promised Constance when she was dying.  She begged
of me----"

"It's a lie--a damned lie!  You're not fit to have control over my son. You can't be trusted.
You're a bad friend----"

"I have done all I can.  I have told you there is only one thing left--to sell this house---start
afresh."

"Very well, then.  That's your last word--and mine."

Suddenly it was still.  The stillness was more terrible than anything Robert had ever heard.
He gulped and turned like a small, panic-stricken animal.  At the bottom of the stairs against
the light from the kitchen he could see the bailiff's bulky, honest shadow.

"Look 'ere, little mister, what's wrong up there?  Anything I can do----"

The silence was gone.  It was broken by the overturning of a chair, by a quiet, sinister scuffling--Edith's
voice whining, terrified, thrilled by a silly triumph.

"Don't--don't, Jim.  Remember yourself----"

The door was dashed open, and something fell across the light, and there was Christine huddled
beneath the sideboard, her head resting against its cruel corner.  Her face was towards Robert.
He was not to forget it so long as he lived.  It was so white and still, so angerless.

His paralysing terror was gone.  He leapt to his feet.  He raced down the passage, flinging
himself on his father, beating him with his fists, shrieking:

"You devil--you devil!"

After that ho did not know what happened.  He seemed to be enveloped in a cloud of struggling
figures.  He heard the bailiff's voice booming, "Come now, sir, this won't do; I am surprised
at a gentleman like you!" and his father's answer, incoherent, shaken with rage and shame.
Then he must have found his way upstairs.  He never remembered how he got there, but he was
lying in his bed, in all his clothes, his head hidden beneath the blankets, twitching from
head to foot as though his body had gone mad.

Downstairs the lock of the front door clicked.  There was something steadfast and reassuring
in the sound, as though it were trying to send a message.  "Don't worry, I shall come back."
But Robert could not feel or care any more.  He was struggling with his body as a helpless
rider struggles with a frantic runaway horse.  He found out for the first time that his body
wasn't himself at all.  It was something else. It did what it wanted to.  He could only cling
on to it for dear life. But gradually it seemed to weaken, to yield to his exhausted efforts
at control, and at last lay stretched out, relaxed, drenched with an icy sweat.  The real himself
sank into seas of darkness from which convulsive, tearing shudders, less and less frequent,
dragged him, with throbbing heart and starting eyes, back to the surface.

His bandage had slipped off.  He held it tight between his hands.  He was too numb and stupefied
even to think of Francey, but there was magic in that dirty, blood-stained handkerchief.  It
might have been a saint's relic, or a Red Indian's totem, preserving him from evil.  He knew
nothing about saints or totems, but he knew that Francey was good and stronger than any of them.

Downstairs the silence remained unbroken.  It was an aghast silence, heavy with remorse and
shame and self-loathing.  It was like the thick dregs lying at the bottom of the cup.  But
to Robert it was just silence.  He sank into it, deeper and deeper, until he slept.

He began to dream.  The dreams walked about inside his brain, and were red-coloured as though
they were lit up by the glow of a hidden furnace.  All the people who took part in them came
and went in great haste.  Or they made up hurried tableaux--Francey holding the stick and looking
at him in white anger, Christine huddled on the floor, his father black and monstrous towering
over her.  Finally, they all disappeared together, and Robert knew that it was because the
Dragon had woken up and was coming to devour them.  He was climbing up from the dining-room.
Robert heard his tread on the stairs--heavy, stumbling footsteps such as one would expect from
a dragon on a narrow, twisting staircase.  They came nearer and nearer, and with every thud
Robert seemed to be lifted with a jerk from the depths in which he was lying, and to be aware
of his body stiffening in terror.

Then at the last step the Dragon fell, and Robert was awake.  He sat bolt upright.  There had
been no mistaking that dull thump.  It lingered in his ears like the echo of a thunder-clap.
The Dragon had fallen and killed himself, for he did not move.  It was pitch dark in the room,
but very slowly and quietly, under the pressure of an invisible hand, the door opposite his
bed began to open.  The light outside made a widening slit in the darkness.  It was like sitting
in a theatre watching the curtain go up on a nightmare.  He could see the banisters, the glow
from the hall beneath, and something black with a white smudge at the end of it lying stretched
out from the head of the stairs.  His body crawled out of bed.  He himself wanted to hide under
the clothes, but his body would not let him.  It carried him on against his will.  When he
was near enough he saw that the long black thing was a man's arm and the white smudge a hand,
clenched and inert, on the red carpet.  His body tottered out on the landing.  It was his father
lying stretched on the stairs, face downwards.

He tried to scream, but his throat and tongue were dry and swollen. Nor could he touch that
still thing, in its passivity more terrible than in its violence.  He was afraid that every
moment it would lift its face, and show him some new unthinkable horror.  He skirted it as
though it might leap upon him and devour him, and rushed downstairs, faster and faster, with
a thousand devils hunting at his heels. 

The It. Let's get out and stretch our legs and have some coffee.

[they do; on returning, that they find the Gentleman smiling blandly to
them from the midland coupé.

G. Goodaby, dear frens, a riverderla!
Hullo, we're travel at the stop from this hotel.

