Mr. Hirsch, the proprietor of the circus, would be very angry with any one who would dare to
say that his circus only attracted Mexicans, Indians, and Chinese. Certainly not; the arrival
of the circus brings hither not only the people of the town and vicinity, but even those of
the neighboring towns of Westminster, Orange, and Los Nietos. Orange Street is crowded with
buggies and wagons of divers shapes, so that it is difficult to get through. The whole world
of settlers come as one man. Young, bright girls, with their hair prettily banged over their
eyes, sitting on the front seats, drive some of these vehicles, and gracefully upset passing
pedestrians, chatter and show their white teeth; the Spanish senoritas from Los Nietos cover
you with their warm, ardent glances from under their lace mantillas; the married women from
the country, dressed in their latest and best fashions, lean with pride on the arms of the
sunburned farmers, who are dressed in old hats, jean pants, and flannel shirts, fastened with
hook and eye, and without neckties.

All these people meet and greet each other, gossip, and the women inspect with critical eye
the dresses of their neighbors, to see if they are "very fashionable."

Among the buggies are some covered with flowers, which look like huge bouquets; the young men,
mounted on mustangs, bend from their high Mexican saddles and peer under the hats of the young
girls; the half-wild horses, frightened by the noise and confusion, look here and there with
their bloodshot eyes, curvet, rear, and try to unseat their riders, but the cool riders seem
to pay no attention to them.

They all speak of "the greatest attraction," which was about to excel everything that had been
seen before. Truly the flaming posters announced genuine wonders. The proprietor, Hirsch, that
renowned "artist of the whip," will in the arena give a contest with a fierce, untamed African
lion. The lion, according to the programme, springs upon the proprietor, whose only defense
is his whip. This simple weapon in his hands (according to the programme) will change itself
into a fiery sword and shield. The end of this whip will sting as a rattlesnake, flash as lightning,
shoot as a thunderbolt, and keep at a proper distance the enraged monster, who vainly roars
and tries to jump on the artist. This is not the end yet: sixteen-year-old Orso, an "American
Hercules," born of a white father and Indian mother, will carry around six people, three on
each shoulder; besides this, the management offers one hundred dollars to any man, regardless
of color, who can throw Orso in a wrestling match. A rumor arose in Anaheim that from the mountains
of San Bernardino comes for this purpose the "Grizzly Killer," a hunter who was celebrated
for his bravery and strength, and who, since California was settled, was the first man who
attacked these great bears single-handed and armed only with a knife. It is the probable victory
of the "Grizzly Killer" over the sixteen-year-old athlete of the circus that highly excites
the minds of the males of Anaheim, because if Orso, who until now, from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, had overthrown the strongest Americans, will be defeated, great glory will cover all
California. The feminine minds are not less excited by the following number of the programme:
Orso will carry, on a pole thirty feet high, a small fairy, the "Wonder of the World," of which
the poster says that she is the most beautiful girl that ever lived on this earth since the
beginning of the "Christian Era." Though she is only thirteen years of age, the management
also offers one hundred dollars to every maiden, "without regard to color of skin," who will
dare to compete and wrest the palm of beauty from this "Aerial Angel." The maidens of Anaheim,
both great and small, make grimaces on reading this, and say that it would not be ladylike
to enter such a contest. Nevertheless they gladly surrender the comfort of their rocking chairs
rather than miss the show and the chance of seeing their childish rival, in whose beauty, in
comparison with the sisters Bimpa, for instance, none of them believed. Some degree of comprehension
failed to break upon him while he stood kneeling upon her, and he said: "o well, Miss s, he'Nancy
got his hands unappeased, and so he didn't know i was coming home always full. I didn't know
it myself till some last minute. He would'a'sent the message,-- course
he would!"

"i guess there ain't anything to hender his writing to his folks," she
answered, quick and unconvinced. There's Mynders besides a-writing
and sending money to the old folks, and that's the difference. ""
other people hear from the war. Oh, beautiful indeed
are the sisters Refugio and Mercedes! Not in vain does the pure Castilian blood flow in their
veins, to which their mother constantly refers, showing her disdain for all colored races,
as well as for the Americans.

The figures of the sisters are slender, subtle, and full of mysterious grace, quiet, and so
luxurious that they greatly impress all young men who come near them. From Donnas Refugio and
Mercedes exhales a charm as the fragrance from the magnolia and the lily. Their faces are delicate,
complexions transparent with a slight rosy tint, as if illumed with the dawn; the eyes dark
and dreamy, sweet, innocent, and tender in their glances. Wrapped in muslin rebosos, they sit
in their buggy adorned with flowers, pure and innocent, unconscious of their own beauty. Anaheim
looked upon them, devoured them with its eyes, was proud of them, and loved them. Who then
is this "Jenny," that can win victory over these? "Truly," the Saturday Review wrote, "when
little Jenny had climbed to the top of the mast, resting on the powerful shoulders of Orso,
and from this eminence, suspended above the earth, in danger of death, she outstretched her
arms and poised like a butterfly, the circus became silent and all eyes and hearts followed
with trembling the movements of this wonderful child. That he who saw her on the mast or on
a horse," concluded the Saturday Review, "will never forget her, because the greatest painter
in the world, even Mr. Harvey, of San Francisco, who decorated the Palace Hotel, could paint
nothing equal to it."

The youths of Anaheim who were enamored by the Misses Bimpa were skeptical of this, and affirmed
that it was a "humbug," but this question will be settled in the evening. Meanwhile, the commotion
around the circus is increasing each moment. From among the long, low wooden buildings surrounding
the canvas circus there comes the roar of the lions and elephant; the parrots, fastened to
rings hanging to the huts, fill the air with their cries and whistles; the monkeys swing suspended
by their tails or mock the public, who are kept at a distance by a rope fence. At last, from
the main inclosure the procession emerges for the purpose of whetting and astonishing the curiosity
of the public to a greater extent. The procession is headed by a gaudy band-wagon, drawn by
six prancing horses with fine harness, and feathers on their heads. The riders on the saddles
are in the costume of French postilions. On the other wagons come cages of lions, and in every
cage is seated a lady with an olive branch in her hand. Then follows an elephant, covered with
a carpet, and a tower on its back, which contains several men arrayed as East Indian hunters.
The band is playing, the drums are beating, the lions are roaring, the whips are cracking;
in a word, this cavalcade moves forward with great noise and uproar. But this is not all: behind
the elephant there follows a machine on wheels, with a locomotive pipe, somewhat resembling
an organ, which, blown by steam, emits the most discordant yells and whistles intended for
the national "Yankee Doodle." The Americans cry "Hurrah!" the Germans, "Hoch!" the Mexicans,
"E viva!" and the Cahuillas howl for joy.

The crowds follow the procession, the place around the circus becomes deserted, the parrots
cease their chatter, and the monkeys their gymnastics. But "the greatest attractions" do not
take part in the procession. The "incomparable artist of the whip," the manager, the "unconquerable
Orso," and the "Aërial Angel, Jenny," are all absent. All this is preserved for the evening
so as to attract the crowds.

The manager is somewhere in one of the wooden buildings, or looks into the ticket seller's
van, where he pretends to be angry. Orso and Jenny are in the ring practicing some of their
feats. Under its canvas roof reigns dust and silence. In the distance, where the seats are
arranged, it is totally dark; the greatest part of the light falls through the roof on the
ring, with its sand and sawdust covering. With the help of the gray light which filters through
the canvas can be seen a horse standing near the parapet. The big horse feels very lonely,
whisks the flies with his tail, and often sways his head. Gradually the eye, becoming accustomed
to the dim light, discerns other objects--for instance: the mast upon which Orso carries Jenny,
the hoops pasted with paper for her to jump through. All these lie on the ground without order,
and the half-lighted arena and nearly dark benches give an impression of a deserted building
with battened windows. The terrace of seats, only here and there broken with a stray glimmer
of light, look like ruins. The horse, standing with drooping head, does not enliven the picture.

Where are Orso and Jenny? One of the rays of light that stream through an aperture of the canvas,
in which floats the golden dust, falls on a row of distant seats. This body of light, undulating
with the swaying canvas, at last falls upon a group composed of Orso and Jenny.

Orso sits on top of the bench, and near to him is Jenny. Her beautiful childish face leans
against the arm of the athlete and her hand rests on his neck. The eyes of the girl are lifted
upward, as if listening intently to the words of her companion, who bends over her, moving
his head at times, apparently explaining something.

Leaning as they are against each other, you might take them for a pair of lovers, but for the
fact that the girl's uplifted eyes express strong attention and intense thought, rather than
any romantic feeling, and that her legs, which are covered with pink fleshings, and her feet
in slippers, sway to and fro with a childish abandon. Her figure has just begun to blossom
into maidenhood. In everything Jenny is still a child, but so charming and beautiful that,
without reflecting upon the ability of Mr. Harvey, who decorated the Palace Hotel, of San Francisco,
it would be difficult even for him to imagine anything to equal her. Her delicate face is simply
angelic; her large, sad blue eyes have a deep, sweet and confiding expression; her dark eyebrows
are penciled with unequaled purity on her forehead, white and reposeful as if in deep thought,
and the bright, silky hair, somewhat tossed, throws a shadow on it, of which, not only Master
Harvey, but a certain other painter, named Rembrandt, would not have been ashamed. She say the usual
clothes made the difference. Hitherto his youth noticed the happening, i said; for, contrary to
what is new and expected, she was not the first to perceive that
the fast and heavy measure had nearly a spring in it, and that there
was a light in his overcast eyes.

Now a year had passed away, and this female was leaning over fence
which surrounded a battleground, and listening, while she leaned,
to the story of ezra Cramer, just home from the bw.



Orso, who is dressed in pink tights, appears from afar as if he were naked, and the same ray
of light distinctly reveals his immense shoulders, rounded chest, small waist, and legs too
short in proportion to the trunk.

His powerful form seems as if it were hewn out with an ax. He has all the features of a circus
athlete, but so magnified that they make him noticeable; besides, his face is not handsome.
Sometimes, when he raises his head, you can see his face, the lines of which are regular, perhaps
too regular, and somewhat rigid, as if carved from marble. The low forehead, with the hair
falling on it, like the mane of a horse, straight and black, inherited from his squaw mother,
gives to his face a gloomy and threatening expression. He has a similarity to both the bull
and the bear, and he personifies a terrible and somewhat evil force. He is not of a good disposition.

When Jenny passes by the horses, those gentle creatures turn their heads and look at her with
intelligent eyes, and neigh and whinny, as if wishing to say: "How do you do, darling?" while
at the sight of Orso they shudder with fear. He is a reticent and gloomy youth. Mr. Hirsch's
negroes, who are his hostlers, clowns, minstrels, and rope-walkers, do not like Orso and tease
him as much as they dare, and because he is half-Indian they think nothing of him, and plague
and mock him. Truly, the manager, who offers the hundred dollars to any one who can defeat
him, does not risk much; he dislikes and fears him, as the tamer of the wild animals fears
a lion, and whips him on the slightest provocation.

Mr. Hirsch feels that, if he does not keep the youth in subjection by constantly beating him,
he will be beaten himself, and he follows the principle of the Creole woman, who considered
beating a punishment, and no beating a reward.

Such was Orso. Recently he began to be less sullen, because little Jenny had a good influence
over him. It happened about a year ago that when Orso, who was then the attendant of the wild
animals, was cleaning the cage of the puma, the beast put its paws through the bars of the
cage and wounded his head severely. Then he entered the cage, and after a terrible fight between
them, he alone remained alive. But he was so badly hurt that he fainted from loss of blood.
He was ill a long time, which was greatly aggravated by a severe whipping which the manager
gave him for breaking the spine of the puma.

When he was ill Jenny took great care of him, and dressed his wounds, and when she had leisure,
read the Bible to him. That is a "good book" which speaks of love, of forgiveness, of mercy--in
a word, of things that are never mentioned in Mr. Hirsch's circus. Orso, listening to this
book, pondered long in his Indian head and at last came to the conclusion that if it would
be as good in the circus as in this book, perhaps he would not be so bad. He thought also that
then he would not be beaten so often, and some one would be found who would love him. But who?
Not negroes and not Mr. Hirsch; little Jenny, whose voice sounded as sweetly in his ears as
the voice of the mavis, might be the one.

One evening, under the influence of this thought, he began to weep and kiss the small hands
of Jenny, and from this time on he loved her very much. During the performance in the evening,
when Jenny was riding a horse, he was always in the ring and carefully watching over her to
prevent any accident. When he held the paper hoops for her to jump through he smiled on her;
when to the sound of the music be balanced her on the top of the high mast, and the audience
was hushed with fright, he felt uneasy himself. He knew very well if she should fall that no
one from the "good book" would be left in the circus; he never removed his eyes from her, and
the evident caution and anxiety expressed in his movements added to the terror of the people.
Then, when recalled into the ring by the storm of applause, they would run in together, he
would push her forward, as if deserving of all the praise, and murmur from joy. This reticent
youth spoke only to Jenny, and to her alone he opened his mind. He hated the circus and Mr.
Hirsch, who was entirely different from the people in the "good book." Something always attracted
him to the edge of the horizon, to the woods and plains. When the circus troupe in their constant
wanderings chanced to pass through wild, lonely spots, he heard voices awakening the instincts
of a captive wolf, who sees the woods and plains for the first time. This propensity he inherited
not only from his mother, but also from his father, who had been a frontiersman. He shared
all his hopes with Jenny, and often narrated to her how fully and untrammeled live the people
of the plains. Most of this he guessed or gleaned from the hunters of the prairies, who came
to the circus with wild animals which they had captured for the menagerie, or to try their
prowess for the hundred-dollar prize.

Little Jenny listened to these Indian visions, opening widely her blue eyes and falling into
deep reveries. For Orso never spoke of going alone to the desert; she was always with him,
and it was very good for them there. Every day they saw something new; they possessed all they
needed, and it seemed right to make all their plans carefully.

So now they sit in this beam of light, talking to each other, instead of practicing and attempting
new feats. The horse stands in the ring and feels lonely. Jenny leans on Orso's arm, thoughtfully
contemplating and looking with wistful, wondering eyes into the dim space, swinging her feet
like a child and musing--how it will be on the plains, and asking questions from Orso.

"How do they live there?" says she, raising her eyes to the face of her friend.

"There is plenty of oaks. They take an ax and build a house."

"Well," says Jenny, "but until the house is built?"

"It is always warm there. The 'Grizzly Killer' says it is very warm."

Jenny begins to swing her feet more lively, as if the warmth there has settled the question
in her mind; but shortly she remembers that she has in the circus a dog and a cat, and that
she would like to take them with her. She calls her dog Mister Dog and her cat Mister Cat.

"And will Mr. Dog and Mr. Cat go with us?"

"They will," answers Orso, looking pleased.

"Will we take with us the 'good book'?"

"We will," says Orso, still more pleased.

"Well," says the girl in her innocence, "Mr. Cat will catch birds for us; Mr. Dog will drive
away bad people with his bark; you will be my husband and I will be your wife, and they will
be our children."

Orso feels so happy that he cannot speak, and Jenny continues:

"There, there will be no Mr. Hirsch, no circus, we will not work, and basta! But no!" she adds
a moment later, "the 'good book' says that we should work, and I sometimes will jump through
one--through the two hoops, the three, the four hoops."

Jenny evidently does not imagine work under any other form than jumping through hoops.

Shortly she says again:

"Orso, will I indeed be always with you?"

"Yes, Jen, for I love you very much."

His face brightens as he says so, and becomes almost beautiful.

And yet he does not know himself how dear to him has become this small bright head.

He has nothing else in this world but her, and he watches her as the faithful dog guards his
mistress. The information, unilluminated by a particular, seemed to satisfy her.
A change that was wonderful see had surpass over the elder'element
to face, when she heard that her father had been promoted from the
ranks.

She hadn't is a question to ask. Her first thought was to run up to the
emotion and state Save Ellen Holmes, who told her, not long ago,
so whole and wonderful story about her brother'element and promotion.

If it were not for this Jenny, my county would be short. Is it not for the time we populate?


This lion, who was bald from old age, desired only to be let alone, had no inclination to attack
the "artist," and hid himself from the lash of the whip in a far corner of the cage. The manager
thought with despair that if this loyal disposition remained with the lion until the evening
the contest with the whip would be a failure; for to fight a lion who slinks away needs no
more art than to eat a lobster from his tail. The bad temper of the proprietor became still
worse when he learned from the ticket seller that he was disposing of no seats in the "gods;"
that the Cahuillas evidently had spent all their money that they had earned in the vineyards
for drinks, and that they came to his window and offered their blankets, marked "U. S.," or
their wives, especially the old ones, in exchange for tickets of admission. The lack of money
among the Cahuillas was no small loss for the "artist of the whip;" for he counted on a "crowded
house," and if the seats in the "gods" were not sold no "crowded house" was obtainable; therefore
the manager wished at this moment that all the Indians had but one back, and that he might
give an exhibition of his skill with the whip on that one back, in the presence of all Anaheim.
Thus he felt as he entered the ring, and seeing the horse standing idle under the parapet,
he felt like jumping with anger. Where are Orso and Jenny? Shading his eyes with his hand he
looked all around the circus, and observed in a bright beam, Orso, and Jenny kneeling before
him with her elbows resting on his knees. At this sight he let the lash of his whip trail on
the ground.

"Orso!"

If lightning had struck in the midst of the children they could not have been more startled.
Orso jumped to his feet and descended in the passageway between the benches with the hasty
movement of an animal who comes to his master at his call; behind him followed Jenny with eyes
wide open from fright, and clutching the benches as she passed them.

Orso, on entering the ring, stopped by the parapet, gloomy and silent, the gray light from
above bringing into relief his Herculean trunk upon its short legs.

"Nearer," cried out the manager in a hoarse voice; meanwhile the lash of his long whip moved
upon the sand with a threatening motion, like the tail of a tiger watching his approaching prey.

Orso advanced several steps, and for a few minutes they looked into each other's eyes. The
manager's face resembled that of the tamer who enters the cage, intending to subdue a dangerous
animal, and at the same time watches it.

His rage overcame his caution. His legs, incased in elk riding breeches and high boots, pranced
under him with anger. Perhaps it was not the idleness alone of the children which increased
his rage. Jenny, from above, looked at both of them like a frightened hare watching two lynxes.

"Hoodlum! dog catcher, thou cur!" hissed the manager.

The whip with the velocity of lightning whistled through the air in a circle, hissed and struck.
Orso winced and howled a little, and stepped toward the manager, but the second stroke stopped
him at once, then the third, fourth--tenth. The contest had begun, although there was no audience.
The uplifted hand of the "great artist" scarcely moved, but his wrist revolved, as if a part
of some machinery, and, with each revolution, the sharp point of the lash stung the skin of
Orso. It seemed as if the whip, or rather its poisonous fang, filled the whole space between
the athlete and the manager, who in his increasing excitement reached the genuine enthusiasm
of the artist. The "master" simply improvised. The cracking end flashing in the air twice had
written down its bloody trace on the bare neck of the athlete. Orso was silent in this dance.
At every cut he stepped one step forward and the manager one step backward. In this way they
circled the arena, and at last the manager backed out of the ring as a conqueror from the cage,
and disappeared through the entrance to the stables, still as the conqueror. As he left his
eye fell on Jenny.

"Get on your horse," he cried; "I will settle with you later."

His voice had scarcely ceased before her white skirt flashed in the air, and in a moment she
was on the back of the horse. The manager had disappeared, and the horse began to gallop around
the ring, occasionally striking the side with its hoofs.

"Hep! Hep!" agitatedly said Jenny to the horse with her childish voice: "Hep! hep!" but this
"hep, hep," was at the same time a sob. The horse increased his speed, clattering with his
hoofs as he leaned more and more to the center. The girl, standing on the pad with her feet
close together, seemed scarcely to touch it with the ends of her toes; her bare rosy arms rose
and fell as she maintained her balance; her hair and light muslin dress floated behind her
supple figure, which looked like a bird circling in the air.

"Hep! hep!" she kept exclaiming. Meanwhile her eyes were filled with tears, and to see she
had to raise her head; the movement of the horse made her dizzy; the terrace of seats and the
ring seemed to revolve around her; she wavered once, twice, and then fell down into the arms
of Orso.

"Oh! Orso, poor Orso!" cried the child.

"What's the matter, Jen? why do you cry? I don't feel the pain, I don't feel it."

Jenny threw both her arms around his neck and began to kiss his cheeks. Her whole body trembled,
and she sobbed convulsively.

"Orso, oh, Orso," she sobbed, for she could not speak, and her arms clung closer to his neck.
She could not have cried more if she had been beaten herself. So, in the end, he began to pet
and console her. Forgetting his own pain he took her in his arms and pressed her to his heart,
and his nerves being excited by the beating, he now felt for the first time that he loved her
more than the dog loved his mistress. He breathed heavily, and his lips panted out the words:

"I feel no pain. When you are with me, I am happy, Jenny, Jenny!"

When this was transpiring the manager was walking in the stables, foaming with rage. His heart
was filled with jealousy. He saw the girl on her knees before Orso; recently this beautiful
child had awakened the lower instincts in him, but as yet undeveloped, and now he fancied that
she and Orso loved each other, and he felt revengeful, and had a wild desire to punish her--to
whip her soundly. This desire he could not resist. Shortly he called to her.

She at once left Orso, and in a moment had disappeared in the dark entrance to the stables.
Orso stood stupefied, and instead of following her he walked with unsteady steps to a bench,
and, seating himself, began to breathe heavily.

When the girl entered the stables she could see nothing, as it was much darker there than in
the ring. Yet, fearing that she would be suspected of having delayed her coming, she cried
out in a faint voice:

"I am here, master, I am here."

At the same moment the hand of the manager caught hers, and he hoarsely said:

"Come!"

If he had shown anger or badly scolded her she would have felt less frightened than at this
silence with which he led her to the circus wardrobe. She hung back, resisting him, and repeating
quickly:

"Oh, dear Mr. Hirsch, forgive me! forgive me!"

But forcibly he dragged her to the long room where they stored their costumes, and turned the
key in the door.

Jenny fell down on her knees. With uplifted eyes and folded hands, trembling as a leaf, the
tears streaming down her cheeks, she tried to arouse his mercy; in answer to her supplications,
he took from the wall a wire whip, and said:

"Lie down."

