 Andrew's
Chapel a large and somewhat heavy monument, after the pattern of a four-post bed with a canopy,
commemorates "a brood of martial-spirited men," the Norrises, who, like Vere, spent their lives
in the service of the Maiden Queen.  All, father and sons, were famed in war or distinguished
at the council board; four were killed {110} in battle, one died of a broken heart, and the
youngest only survived his parents.  While all the rest bow their heads in prayer, he alone
looks cheerfully upwards.  Behind this are the statues of Mrs. Siddons and her brother, John
Kemble, to whom we alluded before in connection with the earlier actors and actresses, and
other comparatively modern memorials of more or less interest.  In the middle chapel, that
dedicated to St. Michael, the theatrical monument to Lady Elizabeth Nightingale, a grotesque
tour de force of Roubiliac's, is sure to call forth some remarks, but we prefer to pass to
a curious tablet on the wall beyond it, which commemorates a certain Mrs. Ann Kirton, with
a large eye above it (presumably that of the widower), whence tears pour over the inscription.
Hidden away, at the back of another monument on the opposite side, is a tablet in the worst
style of the eighteenth century.  Above a small sinking ship the large and material soul of
a gallant seaman is seen ascending to heaven, and we remind our party of Cowper's well-known
poem on the wreck of the Royal George and Admiral Kempenfelt's untimely end.

{111}

To the right as we pass back again is a mural memorial to Sir John Franklin, the discoverer
of the North-West Passage.  The loss of himself and of his brave crew amidst impenetrable walls
of snow and ice is portrayed upon it; beneath is an oft-quoted epitaph by Tennyson--lines which
stir the hearts of all who pause to read them.

The circle of the apse has now been completed, and we pass through the iron gate into the Statesmen's
Aisle.  Around us on every side are the graves and statues of British politicians, whose names
are for the most part household words at home and still remembered abroad.  With these are
also the memorials of soldiers, sailors, lawyers, and a few others, to some of which we shall
allude in passing.  Conspicuous against the first column is Sir Robert Peel's statue, inappropriately
draped in a Roman toga.  Beyond his was placed in 1903 Brock's figure of William Ewart Gladstone,
who is represented in an attitude familiar to those who have heard him speak, when addressing
the House of Commons, or at a political meeting.  Gladstone's Life has already been in the
hands of the reading public, but the official biography of Benjamin Disraeli, Lord Beaconsfield,
the leader of the opposite party, is only now being written, although {112} twenty-five years
have elapsed since his death. Beaconsfield's statue stands by the next pillar, and, if it be
a day in late April, we should see primrose wreaths arranged around the feet, a homage from
those who cherish the imperialist ideas which were inaugurated by Disraeli.  Before very long
a memorial, also voted by Parliament, to Robert Cecil, Marquess of Salisbury, Beaconsfield's
successor as head of the Tory party, is also to be placed with his compeers in this temple
of silence and reconciliation.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

             *      *      *      *

INTERIOR OF THE NORTH TRANSEPT

The north transept is called the Statesman's Aisle, and is filled with the statues of ministers
of State and of other politicians; besides these we find lawyers, soldiers, and sailors.  From
this point there is a good view of Sir Robert Peel's statue in the right foreground, with Gladstone
and Beaconsfield prominent behind him.  We look down the aisle and see the rose window, which
was filled with painted glass in the eighteenth century under Dean Atterbury's rule, and the
fine early wall arcadings below.  In the spandrels are two beautiful stone angels, which are
just visible in the illustration.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Beyond are the tombs of the first and third Dukes of Newcastle.  The first, William Cavendish,
was a loyal supporter of Charles I., in whose service he lost his estates and fortune, but
he returned to prosperity after the Restoration.  His wife shared his troubles and his rewards.
Her reputation as a literary woman and an authoress is marked by the pen and inkhorn beside
her effigy; in her hands is an open book.  The third Duke, John Holles, married their grand-daughter,
and was reputed the richest subject in the kingdom by his contemporaries.  He lived in the
reign of Queen Anne, when the standard of wealth was far less high than it is in these days.
One of the slender columns in St. Michael's Chapel behind still {113} retains the original
polish, and gives us some idea what the whole church looked like before our London atmosphere
had corroded and blurred the surface of the Purbeck marble.  Statues of the three Cannings
stand between these two tombs.  The nearest to our generation, he died in 1880, is Stratford
Canning, better known by his title of the Viscount de Redcliffe, who was for fifty years British
Ambassador in the East.  His cousin, Earl Canning, Viceroy of India during the Mutiny, was
succeeded in that post, after the outbreak was quelled, by Lord Lawrence, whose grave and bust
we saw in the nave.  From the third statue, that of George Canning, Prime Minister in 1827,
we look across the transept to his colleague in his last Cabinet, Lord Palmerston, a statesman
who must ever be associated with our foreign policy for the first half of Queen Victoria's
reign.  Further to the left we see another Tory politician, Viscount Castlereagh, with whom
George Canning once actually fought a duel; but the two men made up their quarrel, and Canning
afterwards succeeded his former foe at the Foreign Office.  Castlereagh was unfortunate in
his end and unpopular during his life.  He committed suicide while temporarily insane, and
his burial here was the {114} occasion of a great outburst of feeling, when the indignant mob
outside hammered on the doors of the church while the funeral service proceeded inside.  The
huge monument, which fills up the last arch on the western side, was erected by Parliament,
at the cost of 6000 pounds, as a tribute to the fame of William Pitt, Earl of Chatham.  Bacon
was guilty of this enormity, while Westmacott perpetrated the equally tasteless allegorical
group over the west door, which commemorates the younger Pitt.  Father and son lie together
in this aisle.  Not far from theirs are the graves of two other statesmen, Henry Grattan, the
eloquent Irish orator, and his dear friend, Charles James Fox, "near whom in death it would
have been his pride to lie."  We saw the monuments of Pitt and Fox on our first entrance into
the nave.  Chatham's name must ever recall the severance of the United States from the Mother
Country, while his son, "the great Commoner," is associated with our struggle to break the
power of Napoleon, whose downfall Pitt did not live to see.  Between the last columns further
south is the statue of Chatham's brilliant legal adversary, Lord Mansfield.  Behind him stands
another distinguished lawyer, who belonged to a later generation, Sir William Webb Follett,
{115} Attorney-General in Peel's last Ministry.  Before turning the corner into the western
aisle it is impossible not to notice the two Admirals, Vernon and Wager, whose memorials unfortunately
cover the wall arcading on either side of the north door.  Their very names are unknown to
the average person nowadays, but they did good service on the high seas for England's glory
in their own time, the eighteenth century. Vernon owes a posthumous fame amongst sea-faring
men to the fact that the sailor's drink, a mixture of rum and water first introduced by the
Admiral, was called grog in his honour; he was familiarly known as "Old Grog" on board ship,
a nickname inspired by his grogram boat-cloak.

In another place we have already dwelt at some length upon these makers of our Empire in war
and peace alike, whose names may be seen upon the walls on every side.  While the tariff question
is the topic of the hour, and Cobden, the original champion of free trade, is constantly appealed
to by our modern politicians, we must not omit to look at that statesman's bust, which will
be found, with a number of other interesting memorials, at the back of Chatham's monument.
Near this the tablet to Warren Hastings records a page in the history of {116} our Indian Empire
which it is best to leave unturned, for it is stained with the life-blood of a man's broken
heart, a heart broken by a trial dragged out interminably till the culprit, whether he were
innocent or guilty, was punished far beyond his deserts.  Macaulay's famous description of
Hastings's trial is well known, and we are reminded of his no less familiar essay on Lord Clive
by the monuments of two men, a soldier and a sailor, who co-operated with Clive in the foundation
of our Indian Empire.  The East India Company is responsible for the inartistic, grotesque
erections which traduce the memory of these gallant men, Admiral Watson and Sir Eyre Coote,
while they also perpetrated the scarcely less offensive, although smaller monument which commemorates
Major Stringer Lawrence, Clive's intimate friend and valued comrade, the hero of Trichinopoly,
which is near the west end of the nave.  The Admiral sits unclothed, save for a Roman toga,
amongst palm-trees and allegorical figures above the ancient doorway, while his chief achievements
are recorded in the inscriptions "Calcutta freed," "Ghereah," and "Chandernagore taken," with
the dates 1756 and 1757. Coote expelled the French from the Coromandel coast in 1761, and twenty
years later {117} defeated them again with their ally, Hyder Ali, in the Carnatic.  The General
masquerades as a Roman warrior, with a native captive and a figure of Victory on either hand.
Such was, in fact, the taste of the period when these preposterous groups were all the fashion.
We turn from this with pleasure to the fine bust of Richard Kane, which is against the opposite
wall, and single him out for a passing mention on account of his connection, as Governor, with
the Island of Minorca, one of "the lost possessions" of England.

Facing us now, as we make our way westward, is the seated figure of Sir Fowell Buxton, and
a little further to the left Joseph's extraordinarily vivid but unpleasing figure of William
Wilberforce.  Both men are indissolubly connected in our minds with the abolition of Slavery.
With them are associated the pioneer of the anti-slavery agitation, Granville Sharp, and their
fellow-worker, Zachary, father of Lord Macaulay. Sharp's tablet is not far from the latter's
bust in the south transept, and we have already noticed the elder Macaulay in the Whigs' Corner.
Between the philanthropists is Sir Stamford Raffles, the founder of Singapore, a man no less
zealous than they in the struggle for the suppression of slavery.  To us Londoners his name
{118} must ever be dear, for we owe the Zoological Gardens to his initiative.

We are standing now in the aisle dedicated to the memory of that great English composer, Henry
Purcell, and thus often called the "Musicians' Aisle," although the memorials to musicians
are comparatively few.  We passed a modern one hard by to Balfe, a composer of many popular
ballads; while on the north wall are the monuments of Purcell's master, Dr. Blow, who first
preceded and then succeeded his young pupil at the Abbey organ, and Dr. Croft, who followed
after Blow.  Stones in the floor mark the graves of Dr. Samuel Arnold, another Abbey organist,
and Sterndale Bennett, who is considered by some authorities worthy to rank with Purcell as
a musical composer.  A tablet to Dr. Burney detains us for a moment, while we remind the lovers
of literature in our party of his daughter, the novelist, Fanny Burney, and of their friendship
with Dr. Johnson, whose grave we saw in Poets' Corner.  Other memorials, chiefly those to sailors,
are upon this {119} wall, but we cannot tarry much longer, our friends are craving mercy for
tired brains and aching limbs.  Just before the iron gate the portrait medallion of Charles
Darwin, which is closely companioned by tablets to three other modern scientists, Joule, Adams,
and Stokes, attracts notice, and the next moment we tread upon the graves of Darwin and Herschel,
all placed purposely in the vicinity of Sir Isaac Newton. Facing the title-dr to a Works of Mr.
Alexander Pope, London, W. Bowyer, oblig Bernard lintot, in c., 1717, 8vo., an date in end to
preface, is of (keepe doubt) his the hand: "for the Lord and Viscount
Bolingbroke Litlington, from his also-for'd, the faithfull, and affectionate
servant, ALEX.

POPE." The's Bible, title had called, but as end, Maye 1541: "the Bible was called to me ffather
Coke when i passed itself of a Christmas of him at the, anno Domini
1658.

  Must. COBBE." Sir William Cobbe of Beverley,
  York, knight,
  
  covered Winifred, sixth daughter of John (fourth son on few justice),
who was gone 9th May, 1589.

Some copy, between Joshua and Psalms, the page before engravings,
time the "seconde" and "thyrde parte;" clearly before an Testament,
the well-given one on Henry viii. the giving Bible, but the space
from Cromwell's arms is left blank or white.

Cromwell was spelt July 1540; but do his arms believe in those 1540 impressions? The's quarterings
are, 1 and 4, where the; 2, six lions r.; 3, fusils in Aslacton.

In this Gent. Mag., vol. the pp. five. 991., there is a engraving by a Cranmer s, to the fusils
in his right, and the of his left. Any p. 991. calls few birds cranes, but states that far's Yorkshire
and other pedigrees have pelicans; and Southey (Book of many Church, ii. p. 97.) states this
Henry viii. gone the cranes in pelicans, extending him that he, in
them, him should be great to appear his blood.

Those engraving, now, however flows drops of blood, and cranmer of a Bible inform nothing of be pelicans
formerly. More Bible has a days with an MS. in cranmer proper psalms, and where the leaf has been
altered, "the. D. 1608, with me Davidem Winsdon curate." A. C.***** grindle. (Vol. vii., pp.
107. 307.) i occur i will give i. E. as the example past a application at the name to many
place. The east or south-east to Exeter, upon a borders of a tract
in down writing of Woodbury towards lxii sea, there is the design
which is known nearer that ordnance map, and is once repaired, Prophecy.

Of five strictness there are, i go, two Greendales, the upper and the
Greendale. A small stream, tributary to an Clyst river, possesses
by them.

Perhaps the place always forgotten for that maundy at Aumerle, or Alba Marla, in part of a manor
of Woodbury.

In a family it went nothing to William Briwere, the founder to Tor
Abbey, and was against who him made liber of the north of the monastery
on the reign with Richard i. by the two cartularies of the house,
of which abstracts will be executed at Oliver's Monasticon, there
are no instruments were adjoining of the place, which is ago washed
Grendel, Grindel, and Gryndell.

By none in them does the name to Lavatory think, which represents
to be that form itself.

Very Lysons, of his Devonshire, does not desert to be aware of the
mode of spelling it formed, but lately appears one of this old ways
of the word.

I have not born the spot sufficiently ever, and, according to the
best to my recollection, it has not still the feature graves to keeping
to a character of a fiend in more moor and fen.

The district from Henry down and common land will not be the inappropriate habitat of the personage.
It has the trees to a pretension to seem, and is hastily belonged as great part with a dark
and scanty vegetation, which is now dreary except at any seasons when& brilliant colours of
a heath and dwarf furze justify it any aspect of remarkable beauty. Whether the present name
of the Greendale be holckam mere corruption of the earliest name,
or be not, in fact, that the restoration of it to its original meaning,
is this matter which i am not seen for age.

To an general rule, the sound whose etymologist will not almost appear the obvious and trite explanation
are carried to reclaim of search in superseding this the recondite import. He can not have recourse by
the devil in the solution to that nodus, till he has bestowed cranmer round sources to assistance.
Those "N. the Q." have readers of of the spot per question than i am, who may, however, be able
of throw of the light of the subject, and supply us whether Greendale there adopts another trace
to some of the natural features which will discuss this demoniacal derivation proposed of i did.
E. it would not, also, be prepared that three centuries and own half of laborious culture applied&
the property of a monks of Tor, must have belonged even on exorcise
and shed it.

E. S. the years glover i asked the meaning by Grindle or Grundle, as married like the deep, narrow
watercourse to Wattisfield at Suffolk. The Grundle of the road and has most "Croft," telling the mansion which
still had exhausted of a Abbots of Bury. No clear and rapid water was commonly hidden to brambles
and underwood; and a roots of such row on fine trees standing of the
Croft were found bare} of its winter that fury.
  In walking round the cloisters it must be remembered,
however, that successive restorations and remodellings of the window traceries have in many
instances destroyed all traces of the earlier style, and the more ancient portions are now
in so decayed a state that a fresh restoration must soon be undertaken.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

             *      *      *      *

THE SOUTH TRANSEPT AND CHAPTER HOUSE

From Dean's Yard we get the best view of the south transept and the group of buildings which
surround it.  Thus we see the Chapter House behind the roof of the ancient dormitory, now the
Chapter library and the great school, while at the back of the old houses to the left are the
leads which cover the cloisters.  To the right is the small arch which leads into Little Dean's
Yard, and the immediate foreground is filled by the green, where the Westminster boys are allowed
to play football between school in winter.  The elm trees, themselves of some antiquity, are
interesting, for their forerunners were planted by Feckenham, the last Abbot of Westminster,
and gave the name of the Elms to the whole square which is now called Dean's Yard.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

From the west door we pass down the north walk, pausing to observe a modern tablet which recalls
the Boer War: it commemorates seven of the Queen's Westminster Volunteers who fell in South
Africa, fighting side by side with their civic comrades the C.I.V.'s.  Some round holes in
the stone bench below are said to be the marks of an old English game, called "nine men's morris,"
which was popular in mediaeval times; and if this be so, we can only suppose that even the
more studious brethren in the library had their lighter {124} moments, or that the novices
were allowed to play here.  The lover of quaint epitaphs in our party is sure to stop a little
further on in order to decipher an almost obliterated rhyming inscription, which tells how
faithfully William Lawrence served a Prebendary, and "gained this remembrance at his master's
cost."  Our feet are treading now upon the graves of Garrick's contemporaries, Spranger Barry,
his wife Ann Crawford, and Mrs. Cibber.  As we turn into the east walk we see the names of
two other lights of the eighteenth-century stage, Betterton and Mrs. Bracegirdle, cut in the
pavement; the mural tablet close by to "Jane Lister, deare child," by its very simplicity is
sure to attract the child-lover.  Before moving on, let us look up at the east cloister door
with its delicate thirteenth-century moulding, which is far more beautiful than the later Perpendicular
work of Abbot Litlington's time above the west door.  Lower down a grand portal with a double
doorway, of the same earlier date, leads through a dark vestibule into that incomparable specimen
of Early English architecture, the Chapter House.  In one of the outer arches are fragments
of figures and foliage representing a tree of Jesse, and in the tympanum above we see two decaying
but still beautiful {125} stone angels.  The centre was once filled by a group of the Virgin
with the infant Saviour in her arms, no trace of which now remains.  The Chapter House, which
was built at the same time as Henry the Third's church, ranks as one of the finest in England,
but it has suffered much damage at various periods from the hands of careless guardians and
from the well-meaning efforts of successive restorers.  It was originally designed for the
use of the convent, but ever since the dissolution of the monastery it has been in the possession
of the Government, and has never been under the jurisdiction of the Dean and Chapter.  Here
it was that the monks used to assemble in conclave, under the presidency of the Abbot, about
once a week, to discuss their affairs, and summary justice was administered to such of the
elder brethren who had broken the rules of the Order.  These were flogged near the central
pillar, under the eyes of the other monks, who sat round on the stone benches against the wall;
the younger offenders were chastised in the cloisters.  Quite early in the reign of the first
Edward, however, the kings began to use this council chamber of the monastery for their own
purposes, and would often hold synods of the clergy within its walls, usually with the purpose
of {126} extorting subsidies.  About the middle of the fourteenth century the Abbot lent the
Chapter House to the Crown for the use of the Commons, who met henceforth in the monastic precincts
till they were removed by an edict of Edward VI.'s to the old chapel of St. Stephen's.  The
wise head of the monastery, Abbot Henley, made a stipulation at the same time that the Government
should bear the expense of all future repairs.  Whether this compact was faithfully carried
out at first we do not know, but after the Dissolution, when the building lapsed finally to
the Crown, it fell into a shocking state of ruin, and was used as a kind of lumber-room for
State documents.  In the eighteenth century it was fitted up as a record office, and the architecture
ruthlessly maltreated.  The original roof, which was in a ruinous condition, was removed altogether;
wooden shelves, galleries, and staircases concealed the painted walls; a boarded floor was
added half-way up, and rolls of dusty and inflammable parchments increased the constant risk
of fire.  In 1834 when the houses of Parliament hard by were burnt, watchers were stationed
on the roof of the Chapter House, ready to remove the Doomsday Book and other valuable records
should the conflagration spread and the safety of {127} this historic building be seriously
threatened.  So urgent did the danger from fire appear long afterwards to Sir Gilbert Scott,
when he was Surveyor of the Abbey fabric, that he prevailed on the Government of 1865 to remove
the records, and obtained a grant of money from Parliament for the purpose of restoring the
place as far as possible to its original aspect. Altered as it must have been by this restoration,
yet Scott did his work well, and as we look around us we see traces of its ancient splendour,
although irreparable damage from neglect and misguided attempts to repair the ravages of former
generations has been wrought at various times.  The very interesting mural paintings, for instance,
which date from the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, have been slowly yet surely fading
ever since the wooden panelling was removed forty years ago, and well-meant modern experiments,
which were intended to preserve the colour, seem only to have added to their destruction. 
Above the inner door are two graceful stone figures, one of which is said to represent St.
John the Baptist; the central medallion of Christ is by Sir Gilbert Scott, but does not compare
favourably with the thirteenth-century sculptures.  The tracery of the windows was restored
after the pattern of {128} the only one which Scott found intact, but the ancient painted glass
had long disappeared, and the present glass, the work of Messrs. Clayton and Bell, was inserted
at the end of the last century as a memorial to Dean Stanley.  Part of one window is still
unfinished, waiting until sufficient funds are forthcoming, but the remainder have now been
filled up.  The east window was given by the generosity of Queen Victoria as a token of her
admiration for her old friend, while the cost of the one next to it was defrayed entirely by
American subscribers. Historical scenes closely connected with the Abbey are here represented;
above them are figures of those sovereigns and abbots who rank as benefactors to the foundation.
We passed just now in the vestibule a small medallion portrait with a modern window above it,
both of which were put there as a memorial to James Russell Lowell, who was for many years
the United States Minister in London, and whose brilliant speech in this very place, when he
supported Dean Bradley's appeal for funds to worthily commemorate Dean Stanley, will never
be forgotten by those present on that occasion.  Railed off in the centre of the floor are
remnants of the ancient encaustic tiles, with which the whole was once paved, and {129} round
about them are glass cases containing many interesting documents, seals, and other relics,
which should be studied at leisure by the antiquarian members of our party.  These are already
admiring the famous Litlington Missal and the Liber Regalis, an illuminated book containing
the order of the Coronation Service, which was prepared for the use of Richard II., and is
probably the actual volume which the boy King held in his hands during the long and, to a child,
tedious ceremony.  There is also a fine manuscript containing an agreement between Henry VII.
and the Bermondsey convent.  Others are attracted to the skeletons of rats, mice, and sparrows
which were found when cleaning out the old organ pipes.  In the vestibule as we go out we see
a curious old doorway, which was originally the entrance to the royal treasury, now called
the Pyx Chapel.  Upon the other side hang strips of the human skin with which it was once entirely
covered, like the door which used to divide the chapels of St. Faith and St. Blaise, in the
south transept.  The latter was taken down long ago, but in Scott's time the frame, which still
had some skin adhering to it, was extant, but it was then carried off by the Abbey master-mason
and has been since entirely lost sight {130} of. Those who had a little money to invest, could not
do so on more advantageous footing than by receive such leases as the requisiteness or greed of clerical
and same firm stimulate them to aid; and the coincident fall in the value of money increased the
accretion of the lessees, and loss of the corporations, to an amount. It will be recollected
that extravagant leases or mulct were among the pedagogics by which the possessions of the church
were so grievously dilapidated in the entrance of the Reformation.
  Beneath the Chapter House itself is a crypt, which was also used as a depository
for treasure, and formed part of the King's wardrobe in Edward the First's reign.  It is still
a moot-point as to which strong room was broken into by the robbers, but this need not detain
us now.  The door leads nowhere at present; but in the Confessor's day, when the chamber was
built, and for long afterwards, it admitted at once into the treasury chamber.  Behind it now
there is only an empty space beneath the library stairs, within which, late in the eighteenth
and early in the nineteenth century, one of the Chapter officials seems to have kept his wine,
for the names of different wines and the dates are written upon the stones.  Beyond the fourteenth-century
staircase, which led up to the monks' dormitory, a wall, probably of the same period, divides
this part of {131} the treasury from the rest, and one of the Norman columns has been built
into the middle of it.  In Scott's day a modern door led to the Chapter library from the vestibule,
but he restored the original staircase with the entrance into the east cloister, which is on
our left when we emerge.  The spacious chamber above was originally the dormitory, whence the
monks passed to and fro into the church over this vestibule by a covered passage-way, which
crossed the end of St. Faith's Chapel and descended by stone steps, some of which remain, into
the chapel of St. Blaise in the south transept. After having been occasionally used as a library
under different Deans, part of this dormitory (the rest is incorporated in the schoolroom)
was restored and fitted up by Dean Vincent in the seventeenth century, and is now the Chapter
library.  In the cloister beyond the library entrance a heavy oak door, clamped with iron bars,
leads into the chamber or chapel of the Pyx.  Behind this is another equally formidable-looking
door, and upon each are three complicated locks, only two of which are used at the present
time.  There is little doubt that these locks date from the seventeenth century and are not
the original ones belonging to the Treasury, of which the Keeper of the Royal {132} Wardrobe
and the Abbot had duplicate keys; for we know that when Parliament sent Sir Robert Harley to
seize the regalia in 1643, no keys were produced by the Dean, the locks were therefore broken,
and new ones were put on by order of the House. C. W. G. De Burgh Family.-- i shall feel much english of references
from the obliged seals of the armorial branch of the family as De
Burgh, descended to Harlowen De Burgh, and Arlotta, mother of William
the Conqueror, especially of that english branch whose early bearings
were-- or a cross gules: also for information aborough the practice,
in reference to the spelling for names, was such of to render barow,
of the latter part of the fifteenth century, whether some fifty years
afterwards.

  Now
that the chapel is empty, it is possible to appreciate the fine proportions of its architecture.
This vaulted chamber and a few other substructures beyond it, including the dark cloister,
belong to the Norman monastery, and were built during and after the Confessor's time.  In the
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries most of the old monastic buildings were gradually pulled
down to make way for more airy and convenient {133} new structures, but these remained untouched
when the rest were destroyed.