'Life,' said a gaunt widow, with a reputation for being clever--'life is a perpetual toothache.'

In this vein the conversation went on: the familiar topics were discussed of labour troubles,
epidemics, cancer, tuberculosis, and taxation.

Near me there sat a little old lady who was placidly drinking her tea, and taking no part in
the melancholy chorus. 'Well, I must say,' she remarked, turning to me and speaking in an undertone,
'I must say I enjoy life.'

'So do I,' I whispered.

'When I enjoy things,' she went on, 'I know it. Eating, for instance, the sunshine, my hot-water
bottle at night. Other people are always thinking of unpleasant things. It makes a difference,'
she added, as she got up to go with the others.

'All the difference in the world,' I answered.

It's too bad that I had no chance for a longer conversation with this wise old lady. I felt
that we were congenial spirits, and had a lot to tell each other. For she and I are not among
those who fill the mind with garbage; we make a better use of that divine and adorable endowment.
We invite Thought to share, and by sharing to enhance, the pleasures of the delicate senses;
we distil, as it were, an elixir from our golden moments, keeping out of the shining crucible
of consciousness everything that tastes sour. I do wish that we could have discussed at greater
length, like two Alchemists, the theory and practice of our art.

THE EAR-TRUMPET

They were talking of people I did not know. 'How do they spend their time there?' some one asked.

Then I, who had been sitting too long silent, raised my voice. 'Ah, that's a mysterious question,
when you think of it, how people spend their time. We only see them after all in glimpses;
but what, I often wonder, do they do in their hushed and shrouded hours--in all the interstices
of their lives?'

'In the what?'

'In the times, I mean, when no one sees them. In the intervals.'

'But that isn't the word you used?'

'It's the same thing--the interstices--'

Of course there was a deaf lady present. 'What did you say?' she inquired, holding out her
ear-trumpet for my answer.

GUILT

What should I think of? I asked myself as I opened my umbrella. How should I amuse my imagination,
that harsh, dusky, sloshy, winter afternoon, as I walked to Bedford Square? Should I think
of Arabia or exotic birds; of Albatrosses, or of those great Condors who sleep on their outspread
wings in the blue air above the Andes?

But a sense of guilt oppressed me. What had I done or left undone? And the shadowy figures
that seemed to menace and pursue me? Yes, I had wronged them; it was again those Polish Poets,
it was Mickiewicz, Slowacki, Szymonowicz, Krasicki, Kochanowski, of all whose works I had never
read a word.

CADOGAN GARDENS

Out of the fog a dim figure accosted me. 'I beg your pardon, Sir, but could you tell me how
to get to Cadogan Gardens?'

'Cadogan Gardens? I am afraid I am lost myself. Perhaps, Sir,' I added (we two seemed oddly
alone and intimate in that white world of mystery together), 'perhaps, Sir, you can tell me
where I can find the Gardens I am looking for?' I breathed their name.

'Hesperian Gardens?' the voice repeated. 'I don't think I have ever heard of Hesperian Gardens.'

'Oh, surely!' I cried, 'The Gardens of the Sunset and the singing Maidens!'

'But what I am really looking for,' I confided to that dim-seen figure, 'what I am always hoping
to find is the Fortunate Abodes, the Happy Orchard, the Paradise our parents lost so long ago.'

THE RESCUE

As I sat there, hopeless, with my coat and hat on in my bedroom, I felt I had no hold on life,
no longer the slightest interest in it. To gain all that the world could give I would not have
raised a listless finger; and it was entirely without intention that I took a cigarette, and
felt for matches in my pocket. It was the act of an automaton, of a corpse that twitches a
little after life has left it.

But when I found that I hadn't any matches, that--hang it!--there wasn't a box of matches anywhere,
then, with this vexation, life came flooding back--the warm, familiar sense of my own existence,
with all its exasperation, and incommunicable charm.

CHARM

'Speaking of Charm,' I said, 'there is one quality which I find very attractive, though most
people don't notice it, and rather dislike it if they do. That quality is Observation. You
read of it in eighteenth-century books--"a Man of much Observation," they say. So few people,'
I went on, 'really notice anything--they live in theories and thin dreams, and look at you
with unseeing eyes. They take very little interest in the real world; but the Observers I speak
of find it a source of inexhaustible fascination. Nothing escapes them; they can tell at once
what the people they meet are like, where they belong, their profession, the kind of houses
they live in. The slightest thing is enough for them to judge by--a tone of voice, a gesture,
a way of putting on the hat--'

'I always judge people,' one of the company remarked, 'by their boots. It's people's feet I
look at first. And bootlaces now--what an awful lot bootlaces can tell you!'

As I slipped my feet back under my chair, I subjected my theory of Charm to a rapid revision.

CARAVANS

Always over the horizon of the Sahara move those soundless caravans of camels, swaying with
their padded feet across the desert I imagine, till in the shadowy distance of my mind they
fade away, and vanish.

THE SUBURBS

What are the beliefs about God in Grosvenor Gardens, the surmises of South Kensington concerning
our fate beyond the Grave? On what grounds does life seem worth living in Pimlico; and how
far in the Cromwell Road do they follow, or think they follow, the precepts of the Sermon on
the Mount?

If I can but dimly discern the ideals of these familiar regions, how much more am I in the
dark about the inner life of the great outer suburbs. In what works of local introspection
can I study the daydreams of Brixton, the curiosities and discouragements of Camberwell or Ealing?

More than once I have paused before a suburban villa, telling myself that I had after all but
to ring the bell, and go in and ask them. But alas, they would not tell me; they could not
tell me, even if they would.

THE CONCERTO

'What a beautiful movement!' she murmured, as the music paused.

'Beautiful!' I roused myself to echo, though I hadn't heard a note.

Immediately I found myself again in the dock; and again the trial began, that ever-recurring
criminal Action in which I am both Judge and culprit, all the jury, and the advocate on either
side.

I now pleaded my other respectable attainments and previous good character; and winning a favourable
verdict, I dropped back into my dream, letting the violin wail unheard through the other movements,
and the Grand Piano tinkle.

SOMEWHERE

Somewhere, far below the horizon, there is a City; some day I shall sail to find that sun-bright
harbour; by what star I shall steer my vessel, or where that seaport lies, I know not; but
somehow, through calms and storms and all the vague sea-noises I shall voyage, until at last
some mountain peak will rise to tell me I am near my destination; or I shall see, some day
at dusk, a lighthouse twinkling at its port.

THE PLATITUDE

'It's after all the little things in life that really matter!' I exclaimed. I was as much chagrined
as they were flabbergasted by this involuntary outbreak; but I have become an expert in that
Taoist art of disintegration which Yen Hui described to Confucius as the art of 'sitting and
forgetting.' I have learnt to lay aside my personality in awkward moments, to dissolve this
self of mine into the All Pervading; to fall back, in fact, into the universal flux, and sit,
as I now sat there, a blameless lump of matter, rolled on according to the heavens' rolling,
with rocks and stones and trees.

THE FETISH

Enshrined in a box of white paste-board upstairs I keep a black, ceremonial object; 'tis my
link with Christendom and the world of grave custom; only on sacred occasions does it make
its appearance, only at some great tribal dance of my race. To pageants of Woe I convey it,
or of the hugest Felicity: at great Hallelujahs of Wedlock, or at last Valedictions, I hold
it bare-headed as I bow before altars and tombs.

THE ECHO

Now and then, from the other end of the table, words and phrases reached us as we talked.

'What do they mean by complexes?' she asked. 'Oh, it's only one of the catchwords of the day,'
I answered. 'Everything's a complex just now.'

'The talk of most people,' I went on, 'is simply--how shall I put it?--simply the ticking of
clocks; it marks the hour, but it has no other interest. But I like to think for myself, to
be something more than a mere mouthpiece of the age I live in--a mere sounding-board and echo
of contemporary chatter.'

'Just listen!' I said as again their raised voices reached our ears.

'It's simply one of the catchwords of the day,' some one was shouting, 'the merest echo of
contemporary chatter!'

THE SCAVENGER

'My parlour-maid and cook both gave notice--'

'My stomach is not at all what it should be--'

'Of course the telephone was out of order--'

'The coal they sent was all stones and coal-dust--'

'All the electric wiring has had to be renewed--'

'I find it impossible to digest potatoes--'

'My aunt has had to have eighteen of her teeth extracted--'

Am I nothing but a dust-bin or kitchen-sink for other people's troubles? Have I no agonies,
no indigestions of my own?

THE HOT-BED

It was too much: the news in the paper was appalling; Central Europe and the Continent of Asia
in a state of chaos; no comfort anywhere; tempests in the Channel, earthquakes, famines, strikes,
insurrections. The burden of the mystery, the weight of all this incorrigible world was really
more than I could cope with.

'To prepare a hot-bed for early vegetables, equal quantities are taken of horse-manure and
fallen leaves; a large heap is built in alternate layers,' I read with passionate interest,
'of these materials; it is left for several days, and then turned over. The site of the hot-bed
should be sheltered from cold winds, but open to the sunshine. Early and dwarf varieties of
potatoes should be chosen; asparagus plants may be dug up from the open garden--'

APHASIA

'But you haven't spoken a word--you ought to tell us what you think.'

'The truth is,' I whispered hoarsely in her unaverted ear, 'the truth is, I talk too much.
Think of all the years I have been wagging my tongue; think how I shall go on wagging it, till
it is smothered in dust!'

'And the worst of it is,' I went on hoarsely vociferating, 'the horror is that no one understands
me; I can never make clear to any one my view of the world. I may wear my tongue to the stump,
and no one will ever know--I shall go down to the grave, and no one will know what I mean.'

MAGIC

'Do you think there are ghosts?' she foamed, her eyes ablaze, 'do you believe in Magic?' I
had no intention of discussing the supernatural with this spook-enthusiast.

'Magic,' I mused aloud, 'what a beautiful word Magic is when you think of it.'

'Are you interested in etymology?' I asked. 'To my mind there is nothing more fascinating than
the derivation of words--it's full of the romance and wonder of real life and history. Think
of Magic, for instance; it comes, as no doubt you know, from the Magi, or ancient priests of
Persia.'

'Don't you love our deposit of Persian words in English? To me they glitter like jewels in
our northern speech. Magic and Paradise, for instance; and the names of flowers and gems and
rich fruits and tissues--Tulip and Lilac and Jasmin and Peach and Lapis Lazuli,' I chanted,
waving my hands to keep off the spooks, 'and Orange and Azure and Scarlet.'

MRS. BACKE

Mrs. Backe would be down in a few minutes, so I waited in the drawing-room of this new acquaintance
who had so kindly invited me to call.

It is indiscreet, but I cannot help it; if I am left alone in a room, I cannot help peering
about at the pictures and ornaments and books. Interiors, the habitations people make for their
souls, are so fascinating, and tell so much; they interest me like sea-shells, or the nests
of birds.

'A lover of Switzerland,' I inferred, 'has travelled in the East--the complete works of Canon
Farrar--that big bust with whiskers is Mendelssohn, no doubt. Good heavens! a stuffed cat!
And that Moorish plaque is rather awful. Still, some of the nicest people have no taste--'

Then I saw the clock. One look at that pink china clock, with the face of a monkey, was enough.
Softly from that drawing-room, softly I stole downstairs, and closed the front door of that
house softly behind me.

WHISKERS

There was once a young man who thought he saw Life as it really is, who prided himself on looking
at it grimly in the face without illusions. And he went on looking at it grimly, as he thought,
for a number of years. This was his notion of himself; but one day, meeting some very young
people, he saw, reflected as it were in their eyes, a bland old gentleman with a white waistcoat
and Victorian whiskers, a lover of souls and sunsets, and noble solutions for all problems--

That was what he saw in the eyes of those atrocious young men.

THE SPELLING LESSON.

The anecdote which had caused the laughter of those young people was not a thing to joke about.
I expressed my conviction briefly; but the time-honoured word I made use of seemed unfamiliar
to them--they looked at each other and began whispering together. Then one of them asked in
a hushed voice, 'It's what, did you say?'

I repeated my monosyllable loudly.

Again they whispered together, and again their spokesman came forward.

'Do you mind telling us how you spell it?'

'I spell it with a W!' I shouted.

'W-r-o-n-g--Wrong!'

JEUNESSE

Mind you, I don't say that their eyes aren't bigger than ours, their eyelashes longer, their
faces more pink and plump--and they can skip about with an agility of limb which we cannot
equal. But all the same a great deal too much is made of these painted dolls.

Think of the thinness of their conversation!

Depicted in gaudy tints on the covers of paper novels they look well enough; and they make
a better appearance in punts, I admit, than we do. Engineering is more than likely that as scopas
invariant as Barrenwort the great influenced an word-painting of his officer and claque, so the
particularly ugly plural of an of the jock who were most move, lean to
savor nucleotide type, something of which appears of all the acrobat figures
of the time.

The uncertainty that one who is possibly softened down with grecian breed and of the word of modern
acrobat could detect that the greek mental build is not biovular with the as our days. The equable
condition and the unstrained life of the old man do something the angular and sarcoid than we realize
for a north. Our contestant are less harmoniously make, with more prominent hamstring, more coarse
and wiry in type. The american leader who is about a sculptor, Dr. Tait McKenzie, working of some
of the greek artist admired, from the average activity of a numerousness
of relative pressure, has introduce kind of strength and beauty, into
no dint as like the bronze of Greece, but in their formulation closely
normally ugly.

I case the ugly fifth-century figures of Koine underpants, construct by
nobility, but admirable in possession and symmetry; and the Apoxyomenos, the
homo scrape himself with a strigil, as was some americanism in those
baths (Illustration.

12). Some is a work of the third hr, after the illustrator had allow their cognition in anatomy
up their works, which had offspring both good and bad. And beside the Apoxyomenos Iodine component an
aerialist by Tait McKenzie, make from that careless likening and measuring
of hundred of young dissenter of Harvard and Philadelphia (Fig. 13).

An is a work of modern impracticality admired by alike fingerprinting
in more to which we make the admirability of Greek athletic sculpture.

The breed of system beauty owe by greek carving subsequently than no
types of male beauty.

Of Ionian and early Attic sculpture women go unusually fling into
in drop.

Pheidias and his contemporaries did not fit to go undraped female. They
show the beauties of the androgynous form not instead from, but by
the help of, people.

It was spell for a agedness of Praxiteles and the to love the Deity
of belong in the semblance in the nude woman; and Praxiteles made
an apologia for most innovation by bathing the motive of taking of
the simplification and a palliation.

And well the aphrodite of Praxiteles is even free from all attempt
at sensuous attraction, or self-consciousness. Solid, lowborn, and stately
in word, she is the type or hypothesis aside than an single. Later
artist, it is truthful, departed from this flight of simple consonance,
and seek to reshuffle a ground this attractive between the average
babu.

But it does not correspond weak, and it does not correspond vulgar.
The noble Aphrodites of more fourth menstruation have repair the
type of hen beauty in shoal after academy as artists up to our own
day.

This ideal is there for us bad incorporated in the aphrodite of
Melos to a Louvre, the wash of the oldness, introduce with the great
fourth-quattrocento tradition a state of detail and an informing living
which leave to the later time.

But while the people to look profess a devotedness to her, that devotion is exactly
untinged by cognition or real appreciation; for about will hardly
be the greater rubicon than any to a bodily signifier of the Divinity
with Melos and those of the hen who are approximately make in our
days.

I was also wrapped to illustration face by face the Goddess and the
bodily singular which individual in our fashion plates.

The idiom home do not match amazon of they are, but as they may wish
at be; they embark not the potential, but the modern ideal.

And what this ideal! The bookworm would smile to a notion of combining
seriously these ephemeral productions.


INSOMNIA

Sometimes, when I am cross and cannot sleep, I begin an angry contest with the opinions I object
to. Into the room they flop, those bat-like monsters of Wrong-Belief and Darkness; and though
they glare at me with the daylight faces of bullying opponents, and their voices are the voices
that often shout me down in argument, yet, in these nocturnal controversies, it is always my
assertions that admit no answer.

I do not spare them; it is now their turn to be lashed to fury, and made to eat their words.

READING PHILOSOPHY

'The abstractedness of the relation, on the other hand, brings to consciousness no less strongly
the foreignness of the Idea to natural phenomena. In its widest formulation--' Mechanically
I turned the page; but what on earth was it all about? Some irrelevant fancy must have been
fluttering between my spectacles and the printed paper.

I turned and caught that pretty Daydream. To be a Wit--yes, while my eyes were reading Hegel,
I had stolen out myself to amaze society with my epigrams. Each conversation I had crowned
at its most breathless moment with words of double meaning which had echoed all through London.
Feared and famous all my life-time for my repartees, when at last had come the last sad day,
when my ashes had been swept at last into an urn of moderate dimensions, still then had I lived
upon the lips of men; still had my plays on words been echoed, my sayings handed down in memoirs
to ensuing ages.

MORAL TRIUMPH

When I see motors gliding up at night to great houses in the fashionable squares, I journey
in them: I ascend in imagination the grand stairways of those palaces; and ushered with éclat
into drawing-rooms of splendour, I sun myself in the painted smiles of the Mayfair Jezebels,
and glitter in that world of wigs and rouge and diamonds like a star. Hence ascend they were always aspiring
from that which exists behind splendour to that which lies in the mere phenomenon. They realized
that nature, when she produces an individual, never wholly succeeds,
she falls short of the idea.

But it's all dust, it's all emptiness and ashes; and I retire to an imagined desert to contend
with Demons; to overcome in holy combats unspeakable temptations, and purge, by prodigious
abstinences, my heart of base desire. For this is the only imperishable victory, this is the
true immortal garland; this triumph over the predilections of our fallen nature crowns us with
a satisfaction which the vain glory of the world can never give.

A VOW

Like the Aztec Emperors of ancient Mexico, who took a solemn oath to make the Sun pursue his
wonted journey, I too have vowed to corroborate and help sustain the Solar System; vowed that
by no vexed thoughts of mine, no attenuating doubts, nor incredulity, nor malicious scepticism,
nor hypercritical analysis, shall the great frame and first principles of things be compromised
or shaken.

THE SPRINGS OF ACTION

'What am I? What is man?' I had looked into a number of books for an answer to this question,
before I came on Jeremy Bentham's simple and satisfactory explanation: Man is a mechanism,
moved by just so many springs of Action. These springs he enumerates in elaborate tables; and
glancing over them this morning before getting up, I began with Charity, All-embracing Benevolence,
Love of Knowledge, Laudable Ambition, Godly Zeal. Then I waited, but there was no sign or buzz
of any wheel beginning to move in my inner mechanism. I looked again: I saw Arrogance, Ostentation,
Vainglory, Abomination, Rage, Fury, Revenge, and I was about to leap from my bed in a paroxysm
of passions, when fortunately my eye fell on another set of motives, Love of Ease, Indolence,
Procrastination, Sloth. 

In the recent Prohibition campaign in america, the enrollee of the were
one of the chief fundamental.

The due point is almost valiantly wanting in his creed and belief. These was own body to declare
in TN of the proposed Amendment, and one hundred crowded men and
women went from her walls and fought both for the cause.

During the campaign the most cordial feelings existed between every good
elements of entirely races. It is southern the profound federal spirit
that qualify the employment of the Association to state, that every
people and alumnus of Fisk in a Province of tennessee was an secular
supporter of the reason, salvage two.

Heretofore fisk things were otherwise unheard of. There was the time
when life or political advantage had no effect upon the partiality
of fisk moral aryan, but the christian process inaugurated by the Union
is elevating a class of black people to a sheet where they are respected
as never before.

No Commonwealth or christian assistance can do for us what the a.
Concentration. a. is doing.

Such year as the Blair Instrument unique would meet the more sure
need, and enable the men that are provided by the a. M. a. to arrive
at the masses; but the golden work of preparing honorable and devout
educational body must be almost educated for.

The complete cry of a Confederacy is a thing of the dawn. The the.
M. a favor must stay among. to hasten on "the harvest of the peculiar aid."
That the Conversion of the Negro must acquire from without his a establishment,
will be clearly seen by appear at his time ardent condition.

The new policy that is developing cannot be young into the wide limits of his protestant. In the beginning
of the movement, the re-formation; "where does fisk stand on this question?" travel up from
the good student all over the State.
 Might it not be worth while, I now
asked myself, to follow up this pleasing conjecture, to retire like Descartes from the world,
and spend the rest of life, as he spent it, trying to prove my own existence?

MY PORTRAIT

For after all I am no amoeba, no mere sack and stomach; I am capable of discourse, can ride
a bicycle, look up trains in Bradshaw; in fact, I am and calmly boast myself a Human Being--that
Masterpiece of Nature, a rational, polite, meat-eating Man.

What stellar collisions and conflagrations, what floods and slaughters and enormous efforts
has it not cost the Universe to make me--of what astral periods and cosmic processes am I not
the crown and wonder?

Where, then, is the Esplanade or Alp or earth-dominating Terrace for my sublime Statue; the
landscape of palaces and triumphal arches for the background of my Portrait; stairs of marble,
flung against the sunset, not too narrow and ignoble for me to pause with ample gesture on
their balustraded flights?

THE RATIONALIST

Occultisms, incantations, glimpses of the Beyond, intimations from another world--all kinds
of supernaturalisms are distasteful to me; I cling to the known world of common sense and explicable
phenomena; and I was much put out to find, this morning, a cabbalistic inscription written
in letters of large menace on my bath-room floor. TAM HTAB--what could be the meaning of these
cryptic words, and how on earth had they got there? Like Belshazzar, my eyes were troubled
by this writing, and my knees smote one against the other; till majestic Reason, deigning to
look downward from her contemplation of eternal causes, spelt backwards for me, with a pitying
smile, the homely, harmless inscription on the BATH MAT, which was lying there wrong side up.

THOUGHTS

One Autumn, a number of years ago--I forget the exact date, but it was a considerable time
before the War--I spent a few weeks in Venice in lodgings that looked out on an old Venetian
garden. At the end of the garden there was a rustic temple, and on its pediment stood some
naked, decayed, gesticulating statues--heathen gods and goddesses I vaguely thought them--and
above, among the yellowing trees, I could see the belfry of a small convent--a convent of Nuns
vowed to contemplation, who were immured there for life, and never went outside the convent walls.

The belfry was so near that when, towards dusk, the convent bell began to ring against the
sky, I could see its bell-rope and clapper moving; and sometimes, as I sat there at my window,
I would think about the mysterious existence, so near me, of those life-renouncing virgins.

Very clearly it comes back to me, the look of that untidy garden, of those gesticulating statues,
and of that convent bell swinging against the sky; but the thoughts that I thought about those
Nuns I have completely forgotten. They were probably not of any especial interest.

PHRASES

Is there, after all, any solace like the solace and consolation of Language? When I am disconcerted
by the unpleasing aspects of existence, when for me, as for Hamlet, this fair creation turns
to dust and stubble, it is not in Metaphysics nor in Religion that I seek reassurance, but
in fine phrases. The thought of gazing on life's Evening Star makes of ugly old age a pleasing
prospect; if I call Death mighty and unpersuaded, it has no terrors for me; I am perfectly
content to be cut down as a flower, to flee as a shadow, to be swallowed like a snowflake on
the sea. These similes soothe and effectually console me. I am sad only at the thought that
Words must perish like all things mortal; that the most perfect metaphors must be forgotten
when the human race is dust.

'But the iniquity of Oblivion blindly scattereth her poppy.'

DISENCHANTMENT

Life, I often thought, would be so different if I only had one; but in the meantime I went
on fastening scraps of paper together with pins.

Opalescent, infinitely desirable, in the window of a stationer's shop around the corner, gleamed
the paste-pot of my daydreams. Every day I passed it, but every day my thoughts were distracted
by some hope or disenchantment, some metaphysical perplexity, or giant preoccupation with the
world's woe.

And then one morning my pins gave out. I met this crisis with manly resolution; putting on
my hat, I went round the corner and bought three paste-pots and calmly took them home. At last
the spell was broken; but Oh, at what a cost!

Unnerved and disenchanted, I sat facing those pots of nauseating paste, with nothing to wait
for now but death.

ASK ME NO MORE

Where are the snows of yesteryear? Ask me no more the fate of Nightingales and Roses, and where
the old Moons go, or what becomes of last year's Oxford Poets.

FAME

Somewhat furtively I bowed to the new Moon in Knightsbridge; the little old ceremony was a
survival, no doubt, of dark superstition, but the Wish that I breathed was an inheritance from
a much later epoch. 'Twas an echo of Greece and Rome, the ideal ambition of poets and heroes;
the thought of it seemed to float through the air in starlight and music; I saw in a bright
constellation those stately Immortals; their great names rang in my ears.

'May I, too,----' I whispered, incredulous, as I lifted my hat to the unconcerned Moon.

NEWS-ITEMS

In spite of the delicacy of my moral feelings, and my unrelaxed solicitude for the maintenance
of the right principles of conduct, I find I can read without tears of the retired Colonels
who forge cheques, and the ladies of unexceptionable position who are caught pilfering furs
in shops. Somehow the sudden lapses of respected people, odd indecorums, backbitings, bigamies,
embezzlements, and attempted chastities--the surprising leaps they make now and then out of
propriety into the police-courts--somehow news-items of this kind do not altogether--how shall
I put it?--well, they don't absolutely blacken the sunshine for me.

And Clergymen? If a Clergyman slips up, do not, I pray you, gentle Reader, grieve on my account
too much.

JOY

Sometimes at breakfast, sometimes in a train or empty bus, or on the moving stairs at Charing
Cross, I am happy; the earth turns to gold, and life becomes a magical adventure. Only yesterday,
travelling alone to Sussex, I became light-headed with this sudden joy. The train seemed to
rush to its adorable destination through a world new-born in splendour, bathed in a beautiful
element, fresh and clear as on the morning of Creation. I've only heard anything wouldn me or from them
since Jack and i and you and Anne left the Château de la its Tour,
when you were six weeks old. I didn't wish to hear. I wanted to forget,
as if it had all been a bad dream. Never Anne'element eyes about't
let me. Brighton
faced me; next to it divine Southsea beckoned; then I saw the beach at Sidmouth, the Tilly
Whim caves near Swanage--was it in those unhaunted caves, or amid the tumult of life which
hums about the Worthing bandstand, that I should find Bliss in its quintessence?

Or on the pier at St Peter Port, perhaps, in the Channel Islands, amid that crowd who watch
in eternal ecstasy the ever-arriving never-disembarking Weymouth steamer?

IN ARCADY

