After a honeymoon spent in the Lake district the happy pair went to pay a visit to the parents
of the bridegroom, and Porkington had so brightened and revived during his stay there, and
had expressed himself so happy in their society, that Mrs. Porkington could not forgive him.
In the company of his wife's father, on the contrary, he relapsed into a state bordering upon
coma; and no wonder, for that worthy retired tallow merchant was a perfect specimen of ponderous
pomposity, and had absolutely nothing in common with the shy scholar who had become his son-
in-law.  Mr. Candlish had lost the great part of the money he had made by tallow, and by consequence
had nothing to give his daughter; but she behaved herself as a woman should whose father might
at one time have given her ten thousand pounds.  "My papa, my dear, was worth at least 40,000
pounds when he retired," was the form in which Mrs. Porkington flung her surviving parent at
the head of her husband, and crushed him flat with the missile.  To the world at large she
spoke of her father as "being at present a gentleman of moderate means."  Now, as a gentleman
of moderate means cannot be expected to provide for a sister of no means at all; and as Mrs.
Porkington, not having been blessed with children by her marriage, required a companion, her
aunt tacked herself on to Mr. Porkington's establishment, and became a permanent and substantial
fixture.  Fat, ugly, and spiteful when she dared, she became a thorn in the side of the poor
tutor, and supported on all occasions the whims and squabbles of her niece.  Whenever the "coach"
evinced any tendency to travel too fast, Mrs. Porkington put the "drag" on, and the vehicle
stopped.

Mr. and Mrs. Porkington had now been married three years; and, as the long vacation was at
hand, it became necessary to arrange their plans for a "Reading Party."

"If I might be allowed to suggest," said Mrs. Porkington, reclining on her sofa, with her eyes
fixed upon the ceiling, "I think a continental reading party would be the most beneficial to
the young men.  The air of the continent, I have always found (Mrs. Porkington had crossed
the channel upon one occasion) is very invigorating; and, though I know you don't speak French,
my dear, yet you should avail yourself of every opportunity of acquiring it."

"But, my love," he replied, "we must consider.  Many parents have an objection to the expense,
and--" What pleasant
occupation no more honorable would you hire us? ... excuse the immodesty with which I agree
with them ... And since this is what I'm allowed to tell you frankly, I must say that besides this
study, you can not do without, no other occupation over time still, which of us had used days
ago ... and we have used you, to our great surprise, and has thus lost an excellent use spare
hours to kill ... I thought that, even if you had plenty of money to Tablanca come, was to
poke a little curious about the estates of view here, inherited from Don Celso, and the body,
we go to say, the deals and contracts with their wearers, and more in this vein, that continues
to offer his hand and patriarchal therefore, interesting and colorful for a man like you.
Under the pretext of seeing with own eyes, it leaves jail overwhelming and sad, breathe the
fresh air and renewing ideas and spread the spirit shrunk. With the contemplation of what
is seen as well, born communicate thoughts, first of all, with those around us, and give abundant
material to reason then if we're alone or to socialize with interest if we are happy together
friends who love us well. The property, however small, is that virtue, and if recently acquired,
in the highest degree. Just imagine if during these days when so supremely are bored and so beautiful
it has been shown time, we had missed trips reasons and talking and scaffolding of projects!
Come on, it seems impossible that either by instinct conservation one has come to you one thing practicable
and convenient, and has chosen delivered bound hand and foot to the harshness of his jailer. But still
not too late to rectify this mistake. We will accompany you to these areas as time consent; see
and talk about what you care to see and what you want to talk; continue here after talks outside
and they are believed or will be discussed and reformed calculation and design, but sometimes
resulting castles in the air. This, suddenly. Much of the rest, it will only get through the
doors of this house ... For example, within a few days because we're in the month to do so, will
you be arriving the phalanx of his tenants and sharecroppers to pay the "rent" they owe, some
in corn, chestnuts or money, others in the three species together, and some with hands in pockets
unemployed, for you to provide what they need most. So you will know, just little, to the foot
of limping, and discovering the way which has to reach the very heart of the mystery ... Amen to
that, why do not you go back to their healthy raids before? There is Chisco, more courageous
and proud even then, it has improved Fortunately, and doubly attached to you by the largesse that
he has had, there is Chorcos sigh yet, though not as much as the daughter of Facia, for those
adventures Rangers, and those few drinks so comforting, and those entertainments as frequent
... and here I am I finally, for when you have me, and so will tell Don Sabas of itself, and
each of the inhabitants of this town ... Another example. When you least expect will you grow
from the field the prelude of spring, to find dry land and dotted of enamel flowers, inhale the
fragrance of the forests and meadows, and perhaps set in that it is time to move the earth ... I
paint the case, this garden, and even to cultivate better than it has grown until today, and to
that end, you call the workers to for the sake of paying the wages, and sends them to dig, and
as you are obedient, will you drunk with the smell of turned earth, which is the smell of pleasant
odors, and think of new and varied plantings, and even outlined a garden project in the corner
warmer ... And they say improving the garden, says reweave the house or repair their ailments
interior ... in short, which are always chores to the man who insists on having them, but is in
the wilds of Tablanca ... And why do you want the money?

Here he stopped and stared Neluco stared as if waiting for my reply. I soon give it.

- All that picture you have just drawn - I said - I love and seduce me ... as painting on paper.
But I would assume that is the truth. I have in my hands remedy for the annoyance of a few days
... a good season, if you want. Current. But what then?

When you can not tack up the mountain, or remove earth my garden, or have business to deal
with my settlers, and you are busy in their chores professionals,
and Don Sabas in his ministry, and the sleet become unbound, and endless
hours and endless nights, what would I do in the wilds of the loft,
without nature and the passions of my uncle, or Mr. Sabas or you?

-
But I tell - I replied Neluco - with that leftover sufficient and
attach you to Tablanca, so that may be given leave to be absent from
the valley without the fear that not return to him, the entertainment
and other such, if you get to take their taste ... Then What the devil!
mortal sin is to tell a man of talent and experience you, how to bypass
the spare hours in life that we all go.

The main thing is basis of occupation: the gaps are filled as she can. For that is the understanding
that you do not need ... And finally, if the resources it does not get what you want, you
still have the link to the land of links it with such strength, that only death can break.

-
Links ... marriage, we - I interrupted -. What beating about metaphors?

- Cabal - replied the doctor.

- Well, I said - I added -. Are you thinking about my own caletre
and talking to myself language.

Also I had thought this out a while ago.

- Really?

- O hypothesis.

- It is not the same. And why not to have thought seriously? You are in the best age to marry,
is rich, has run the world, has the experience of it, is orphaned and alone and hundreds of
miles of the only debt that remains close, and so left to flow as
you.

What the hell wants his and the long life ahead, but to rebuild lost
family and leave the earth when the leave and not someone who you
close your eyes with love and I cry with all my heart?

- And you
- Neluco answered half seriously and half in jest - that look and
feel of all those pretty things that I do not see or I am missing
as of urgent necessity, why not me has already given the example?

-
Because his case is different yours and mine, Don Marcelo - said to
me this Neluco -.

I begin to live now, I need work, and work hard to earn bread that
as, and also not get bored on the solitude in which vegeto, not tempt
me, like you, the seductions of 'out there' or die with me has my
name but I die bachelor ... But if I was in the shoes of you!

...

- To see and not see that way - I said to myself, watching the doctor
with eyes of malice - thou shalt not take long to fall from the side
you lean, wily - and added aloud -: For suppose, Neluco friend that
I, thinking as you think, or true vocation, or so called reason of
state, I resolve to marry ... to live here, of course, but not forever.

Natural is that I find a suitable companion to my liking ... And in
this case, what do you mean me, sir, matchmaker, how expensive or
how consciousness I offer to any woman, and all I know, this penitentiary
for reward that I am looking in the attempt to marry her?

- Well,
that lacked only you! - Said here Neluco her hands to her head, as
I had taken them shortly before and the ground itself -.

With a partner that estofa you would not live here in peace holy midweek. A thousand times worse
than the disease would medicine.

- And that being, as it is - I said - what is to be drawn, and where, the woman I seeks to marry her?
Do you want to put up with a monsoon of Tablanca?

- Are not there more women in the world - said the mediquillo integrity - that the monsoon of
Tablanca and ladies of Madrid? Take care, Don Marcelo - added in a tone of most sincerity -
that the woman chosen to share with you the lordship of the house,
is considered very honest and gainful about it: this is sufficient,
and no doubt that the abundance of this condition at our disposal.

The issue is not rogue stab: it gives time to discourse, to walk and see ... and what the hell, man!
- suddenly exclaimed with unusual vehemence - as we talked and seriously, and not fantasize
you see me in what I say, this válgale example is now reminded me: do you want beauty and
tenderness and kindness and delicacies feeling, and how you could ask for, minus the refined
culture of the classroom, in one piece, in a model woman, even for
a man like you?

However closely we have: Lita. So take heart you claim it.

I was stunned. Was this a joke? Was it denial? Was starting patriotic? I declared my amazement,
and said:

- Since you came to Tablanca, is committed to seeing visions that purpose. I know something that
you told me and another has left little to show it. He once painted the caste and the reasons
for the affection we have for them.

What I said then was pure truth, and the best proof of this, what I propose and has caused
much astonishment. Believe me with all that I believe and I believe, would not take my devotion
to the about to give a pledge of such high worth, if it were mine in the sense that you had imagined.
Not to mention that even without that dream commitment, God knows
what the hostess think of these accounts, if we were listening through
the eye of the lock.

Instinctively I turned my eyes toward the door. Neluco laughed then, and I realized I did not
know I carry the joke with the freshness that the case required.

Talk quietly changed the doctor gave shortly after a few laps in the Hall, talking ... do not
remember what trivia, was after a short while, and I remained another Once alone, but strange!
without concern or sadness.

XXXII

Boy, did I think the occurrence of Neluco! It is seen that the increased interest of things does
not depend on the things themselves, but their circumstances and
accidents.

That same thought expressed aloud by the doctor, had passed in silence through my mind recently
before without leaving a trace on it ... True, all true.

But what was born the stubborn determination that I had since I arrived and met Tablanca the
granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, to find out "what was" between her and Neluco, assuming
that "there was something ..." and earwigs have to be? At the end of the day, what mattered
to me that I had or not any? Híceme these questions, because tying their pleas to the effect
that had caused me the unexpected occurrence of empecatado mediquillo, it was assumed the existence,
in never had thought of certain streams so mysterious and unexplored depths of the heart ... Anyway,
whether or not such flows, coinciding Neluco and I, of its own accord and spontaneous, in a singular
and specific point, I mentally sketching the idea, and he as if I
had read in the brain, presentándomela later with a veneer of reality,
it was more than enough reason to devote full attention to the case
I was consecrated.

They do not every day, in similar situations, coincidences of that caliber.

It was that I spent hours dissecting the dead doctor and unexpected hint subjected, impalpable
fragments, the force of a scrupulous analysis. So I to felony suspect the lack of Neluco thought
him capable of having targeted The idea, according to the person
concerned, or even her mother.

But it took only a moment reflection to dispel suspicion, with shame
of having fallen into it.

At all stages of life men have some children, and there is always a 'toy' that comes when and
where you least think, that surprises us and we love and we are concerned, and even "makes us
good ..." and also stupid. I say this because not only spent the rest of that afternoon and
much of the night circling the Neluco had given me, to "see what was inside," but when I woke up
the next day, the first thing that got me between the hulls of the heart was the question of
whether or not she was the granddaughter of giant Castañalera and so comely as pretty as the doctor
actually had painted me and I had seen when less interested in me then, and with this doubt,
the firm intention of going to clarify with myself as I got up ... "Because - what I said - not
that I mind two cumin, ultimately, enlightenment, not that touched my soul and nowhere person,
but am very interested in the case. This is a course that could be the best day, and is great
need to see, weigh and measure everything carefully and on time to avoid further disappointments
and hopeless. "

And as I thought I did ... and even more than I thought, because I care in the clothing as
I was careful never there ... and I'd say 'glitter' in the beard.


"What was Miss Delamere reading?"

"Oh, only Hallam's Constitutional History."

"Great Heavens!" whispered Glenville to me, "think of that!"

"Do you like it?" asked Thornton.

"Well, I can't say I do, but I suppose I ought.  My mother wanted me to bring it."

"I think it must be very dull," said Thornton, "though I have never tried it.  I have just
finished Kingsley's Two Years Ago.  It is awfully good.  May I lend it to you?"

"Oh, I do so like a good novel when I can get it, but I am afraid I mayn't."

"What is that, Flo?" asked her mother.  "You know I do not approve of novels, except, of course,
Sir Walter's.  My daughters, Mr. Thornton, have, I hope, been brought up very differently from
most young ladies.  I always encourage them to read such works as are likely to tend to the
improvement of their understanding and the cultivation of their taste.  I always choose their
books for them."

"Nonsense, my dear," said Mr. Delamere, "if Mr. Thornton recommends the book, Flo can have
it.  I know nothing of books, sir, and care less; but if you say it is a good book, that is
sufficient."

"Oh, quite so indeed," exclaimed Mrs. Delamere, "if Mr. Thornton recommends the book.  My daughter
Florence has too much imagination, dear child, and we have to be very careful.  May I inquire
the name of the work which you recommend?"

She called everything a work.

"Oh, only Two Years Ago, by Kingsley," said Thornton.

"Ah!" said Mrs. Delamere, "a delightful writer.  The Rev. Charles Kingsley was a man whom I
unfeignedly admire.  Perhaps I might not altogether approve of his writings for young persons,
but for those whose minds have been matured by a considerable acquaintance with our literature
it is, of course, different.  He is a bold and fearless thinker.  He is not fettered and tied
down by those barriers which impede the speculations of other writers."

"Off she goes!" whispered Glenville to me, "broken her knees over the first metaphor.  She
will be plunging wildly in the ditch directly, and never fairly get out of it for about an
hour and a half.  Let us escape while we can."  We rose and left Mrs. Delamere explaining to
Thornton how darling Florence and dearest Beatrix were all that a fond and intellectual mother
could desire.  She was anxious to be thought to be trembling on the verge of atheism, to which
position her highly-gifted intelligence quite entitled her; while, at the same time, her strong
judgment and moral virtues enabled her to assist in supporting the orthodox faith.  The younger
Miss Delamere (Beatrix) was doing one of those curious pieces of work in which ladies delight,
which appear to be designed for no particular purpose, and which, curiously enough, are always
either a little more or less than half finished.  I think she very seldom spoke.  She was positively
crushed by that most superior person, her mother.  Flo was gazing abstractedly into the sea,
hearing her mother but not listening, while Thornton was seated a foot or two below her, gazing
up into her deep-blue eyes, shaded by her large hat and dark hair, as happy and deluded as
a lunatic who thinks himself monarch of the world.

The Squire said he would join us.  I expect his wife rather bored the old gentleman.  We all
sauntered up to the little crush of people who were listening (or not listening) to the discordant
sounds of the German band. Here we found the whole tribe of Bankes' and the two Irish captains,
one standing in front of each beautiful Miss Bankes; and a little further removed from this
party were Colonel and Mrs. and Miss Bagshaw, with the doctor's son.  Above the cliff, on a
slope of grass, lay the young artist, smoking his pipe and enjoying the scenery.

"I hope you intend to honour the Assembly Wooms with your pwesence this evening," drawled Captain
Kelly to the elder Miss Bankes--the dark one with the single curl hanging down her back.  Her
sister wore two light ones, and it puzzled us very much to account for the difference in number,
and even in colour, for the complexions were the same.  Was Glenville justified in surmising
that the art of the contrivance was to prove that the curls were natural and indigenous, for
if false, he said, surely they would be expected to wear two or one each.

"My sister and I certainly intend going this evening," replied the young lady, "but really
I hear they are very dull affairs."

"They will be so no longer," said he.

"Well, I suppose we must do something in this dreadful little place to keep up our spirits."

"Yes, I must own it is very dull here, and I certainly should not have come had not a little
bird told me at Mrs. Cameron's dance who was coming here," said the Captain, with a languishing
air.

"I am sure I said nothing about it," said Miss Bankes, poutingly.

"Beauty attracts like a magnet, Miss Bankes, and you must not be angry with a poor fellow for
what can't be helped."

"Very well, now you are come, you must be very good, and keep us all amused."

"I will endeavour to do my best," said the gallant soldier.

"Bagshaw, come here!" shouted Mrs. Bagshaw right athwart the parade, startling several of the
performers in the band, and drawing all eyes towards her.  "Bagshaw, behave yourself like a
gentleman.  Don't leave me, sir; I should be ashamed to let the people see me following that
woman.  It's disgraceful, mean, and disgusting."

Bagshaw came back, looking ridiculous.  He hated to look ridiculous, as who does not?  He approached
his wife, and said in a low, but angry tone, "You are making a fool of yourself; the people
will think you are mad; and they are not far wrong, as I have known to my cost this twenty years."

Porkington, wife, and drag had just passed up the parade.

"I saw you, I tell you I saw you," she went on excitedly.  "You were sneaking away from my
side--you know you were.  Don't laugh at me, Mr. Bagshaw, for I won't have it.  I don't care
who hears me," she cried in a louder voice, "all the world shall hear how I am treated."

"Look at Miss Bagshaw," said the artist to me.  "What a good girl she is! I am so sorry for
her!"  Pity is kin to love, thought I, as I watched the beautiful girl move swiftly up to her
father and mother, and in a moment all three moved quietly away.

"Who's the old girl?" asked Captain O'Brien of Captain Kelly. 

A whistle

The excitement warmed the theater. What a debut! What Lohengrin! Tiple do that!

On the red of the seats in the courtyard stood out bareheaded or towers ties, flowers and tulle,
motionless, without approaching the whisper or the boredom, in the boxes silence, no talk
shows and talks in a low voice, up in the raging inferno of the philharmonic hall, ironically
called Paradise, enthusiasm escaped long and loud, like a huge sigh of satisfaction, every time
the voice sounded the soprano, sweet, powerful and robust.

What a night! Everything seemed new in the theater. The orchestra was angels until the spider
was more light center.

In this excitement took no small part patriotism satisfied. The treble was Spanish, the Lopez, but
now it was announced by the surname of her husband, tenor Franchetti, a great artist who,
by marrying her, had made up to star status. Go a woman! Legitimate land. Lean, arrogant,
arms and throat with adorable curves, and Elsa large white tulle at the waist, but narrow and almost
bursting with superb pressure curves. His black eyes, torn, of gloomy fire, contrasted with the
blonde wig Countess of Brabant.

The beautiful Spanish was on the scene the timid woman, sweet and resigned dreamed Wagner, relying
on the strength of his innocence, waiting for help of the unknown.

In recounting his dream to the emperor and his court, as vagorosa sang with sweet expression, arms
down and the ecstatic look on top, as if he saw come riding on a
cloud the mysterious champion, that the public could not hold anymore,
and as the booming download a row of guns, all the holes left the
theater, even the hallways, the thunderous explosion of applause and
screams.  He saith among the cricket balls, Ha, ha, and he smelleth the
battle afar off, the thud of the oars and the shouting.  I suppose the voice of the people
is the voice of God; but let a thing once become fashionable and the devil steps in and leads
the dance.  When Lady Somebody, or Sir John Nobody, gives away the prizes at the county athletic
sports, amid the ringing cheers of the surrounding ladies and gentlemen, I suspect the recipient,
in nine times out of ten, is little better than an obtainer of goods by false pretences. Unable to speak. Slept and when
I woke up with eyes looking at all vague, immediately closed. You really do not remember, sir?
... And would ask again, when it was restored. There was no care, all honest men, like justice, "favored
them. " As Ferrer had no close relatives who had come and unfriendly, neighbors had no interest
in silence and all told the truth. The two nights had gone Verro to seek the Lord in his tower, and
the man had defended. It was clear that would not nothing. What the Chaplain said that Belize had
their hobbies some lawyer. "Self-Defense, Jaime ..." The island is only talked about this event.


