"How he does move around!" said the inspector "I knew we had a difficult job on hand, but we
shall catch him yet."

                         FLOWER STATION, N. Y., 9 A.M.
     Shadowed the tracks three miles westward.  Large, deep, and ragged.
     Have just met a farmer who says they are not elephant-tracks.  Says
     they are holes where he dug up saplings for shade-trees when ground
     was frozen last winter.  Give me orders how to proceed.
                         DARLEY, Detective.

"Aha! a confederate of the thieves! The thing, grows warm," said the inspector.

He dictated the following telegram to Darley:

     Arrest the man and force him to name his pals.  Continue to follow
     the tracks to the Pacific, if necessary.
                         Chief BLUNT. 

Without explaining why, Julian began to displease the gathering and the familiarity of Sabel,
snuggled up to him continuously, on the pretext of searching the desk drawer a knife a cup, any object
indispensable.

"Heavens!" said the inspector; "would he eat gas bills?"

"Through ignorance--yes; but they cannot support life. At least, unassisted."

Now came this exciting telegram:

                         IRONVILLE, N. Y., 9.30 A.M.
     Just arrived.  This village in consternation.  Elephant passed
     through here at five this morning.  Some say he went east some say
     west, some north, some south--but all say they did not wait to
     notice, particularly.  He killed a horse; have secure a piece of it
     for a clue.  Killed it with his trunk; from style of blow, think he
     struck it left-handed.  From position in which horse lies, think
     elephant traveled northward along line Berkley Railway.  Has four
     and a half hours' start, but I move on his track at once.
                         HAWES, Detective

I uttered exclamations of joy. The inspector was as self-contained as a graven image. He calmly
touched his bell.

"Alaric, send Captain Burns here."

Burns appeared.

"How many men are ready for instant orders?"

"Ninety-six, sir."

"Send them north at once. Let them concentrate along the line of the Berkley road north of
Ironville."

"Yes, sir."

"Let them conduct their movements with the utmost secrecy. As fast as others are at liberty,
hold them for orders."

"Yes, sir."

"Go!"

"Yes, sir."

Presently came another telegram:

                         SAGE CORNERS, N. Y., 10.30.
     Just arrived.  Elephant passed through here at 8.15.  All escaped
     from the town but a policeman.  Apparently elephant did not strike
     at policeman, but at the lamp-post.  Got both.  I have secured a
     portion of the policeman as clue.
                         STUMM, Detective.

"So the elephant has turned westward," said the inspector. "However, he will not escape, for
my men are scattered all over that region."

The next telegram said:

                         GLOVER'S, 11.15
Just arrived. Village deserted, except sick and aged. Elephant passed
through three-quarters of an hour ago. The anti-temperance mass-meeting
was in session; he put his trunk in at a window and washed it out with
water from cistern. Some swallowed it--since dead; several drowned.
Detectives Cross and O'Shaughnessy were passing through town, but
going south--so missed elephant. Whole region for many miles around in
terror--people flying from their homes. Wherever they turn they meet
elephant, and many are killed.                         BRANT, Detective.

I could have shed tears, this havoc so distressed me. But the inspector only said:

"You see--we are closing in on him. He feels our presence; he has turned eastward again."

Yet further troublous news was in store for us. The telegraph brought this:

                         HOGANSPORT, 12.19.
     Just arrived.  Elephant passed through half an hour ago, creating
     wildest fright and excitement.  Elephant raged around streets; two
     plumbers going by, killed one--other escaped.  Regret general.
                         O'FLAHERTY, Detective.

"Now he is right in the midst of my men," said the inspector. "Nothing can save him."

A succession of telegrams came from detectives who were scattered through New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
and who were following clues consisting of ravaged barns, factories, and Sunday-school libraries,
with high hopes-hopes amounting to certainties, indeed. The inspector said:

"I wish I could communicate with them and order them north, but that is impossible. A detective
only visits a telegraph office to send his report; then he is off again, and you don't know
where to put your hand on him."

Now came this despatch:

                         BRIDGEPORT, CT., 12.15.
     Barnum offers rate of $4,000 a year for exclusive privilege of using
     elephant as traveling advertising medium from now till detectives
     find him.  Wants to paste circus-posters on him. Desires immediate
     answer.
                         BOGGS, Detective.

"That is perfectly absurd!" I exclaimed.

"Of course it is," said the inspector. "Evidently Mr. Barnum, who thinks he is so sharp, does
not know me--but I know him."

Then he dictated this answer to the despatch:

     Mr. Barnum's offer declined.  Make it $7,000 or nothing.
                         Chief BLUNT.

"There. We shall not have to wait long for an answer. Mr. Barnum is not at home; he is in the
telegraph office--it is his way when he has business on hand. Inside of three--"

     Done.--P. T. BARNUM.

So interrupted the clicking telegraphic instrument. Before I could make a comment upon this
extraordinary episode, the following despatch carried my thoughts into another and very distressing
channel:

                         BOLIVIA, N. Y., 12.50.
     Elephant arrived here from the south and passed through toward the
     forest at 11.50, dispersing a funeral on the way, and diminishing
     the mourners by two.  Citizens fired some small cannon-balls into
     him, and they fled.  Detective Burke and I arrived ten minutes
     later, from the north, but mistook some excavations for footprints,
     and so lost a good deal of time; but at last we struck the right
     trail and followed it to the woods.  We then got down on our hands
     and knees and continued to keep a sharp eye on the track, and so
     shadowed it into the brush.  Burke was in advance.  Unfortunately
     the animal had stopped to rest; therefore, Burke having his head
     down, intent upon the track, butted up against the elephant's hind
     legs before he was aware of his vicinity.  Burke instantly arose to
     his feet, seized the tail, and exclaimed joyfully, "I claim the
     re--" but got no further, for a single blow of the huge trunk laid
     the brave fellow's fragments low in death.  I fled rearward, and the
     elephant turned and shadowed me to the edge of the wood, making
     tremendous speed, and I should inevitably have been lost, but that
     the remains of the funeral providentially intervened again and
     diverted his attention.  I have just learned that nothing of that
     funeral is now left; but this is no loss, for there is abundance of
     material for another.  Meantime, the elephant has disappeared again.
                         MULROONEY, Detective.

We heard no news except from the diligent and confident detectives scattered about New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Virginia--who were all following fresh and encouraging clues--until
shortly after 2 P.M., when this telegram came:

                         BAXTER CENTER, 2.15.
     Elephant been here, plastered over with circus-bills, any broke up a
     revival, striking down and damaging many who were on the point of
     entering upon a better life. 

Although it quickly, without stopping matter how big claims, so as not to exceed and give this work an
improper extension of the object that is intended, something must be said the second part of
Faust.  All masks tallied exactly except one, which we
     could not see--the boil-scar under armpit.  To make sure, Brown
     crept under to look, and was immediately brained--that is, head
     crushed and destroyed, though nothing issued from debris.  All fled
     so did elephant, striking right and left with much effect.  He
     escaped, but left bold blood-track from cannon-wounds.  Rediscovery
     certain.  He broke southward, through a dense forest.
                         BRENT, Detective.

That was the last telegram. At nightfall a fog shut down which was so dense that objects but
three feet away could not be discerned. This lasted all night. The ferry-boats and even the
omnibuses had to stop running.

III

Next morning the papers were as full of detective theories as before; they had all our tragic
facts in detail also, and a great many more which they had received from their telegraphic
correspondents. Column after column was occupied, a third of its way down, with glaring head-lines,
which it made my heart sick to read. Their general tone was like this:

     THE WHITE ELEPHANT AT LARGE!  HE MOVES UPON HIS FATAL MARCH WHOLE
     VILLAGES DESERTED BY THEIR FRIGHT-STRICKEN OCCUPANTS!  PALE TERROR
     GOES BEFORE HIM, DEATH AND DEVASTATION FOLLOW AFTER!  AFTER THESE,
     THE DETECTIVES!  BARNS DESTROYED, FACTORIES GUTTED, HARVESTS
     DEVOURED, PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGES DISPERSED, ACCOMPANIED BY SCENES OF
     CARNAGE IMPOSSIBLE TO DESCRIBE!  THEORIES OF THIRTY-FOUR OF THE MOST
     DISTINGUISHED DETECTIVES ON THE FORCES!  THEORY OF CHIEF BLUNT!

"There!" said Inspector Blunt, almost betrayed into excitement, "this is magnificent! This
is the greatest windfall that any detective organization ever had. The fame of it will travel
to the ends of the earth, and endure to the end of time, and my name with it."

But there was no joy for me. I felt as if I had committed all those red crimes, and that the
elephant was only my irresponsible agent. And how the list had grown! In one place he had "interfered
with an election and killed five repeaters." He had followed this act with the destruction
of two pool fellows, named O'Donohue and McFlannigan, who had "found a refuge in the home of
the oppressed of all lands only the day before, and were in the act of exercising for the first
time the noble right of American citizens at the polls, when stricken down by the relentless
hand of the Scourge of Siam." In another, he had "found a crazy sensation-preacher preparing
his next season's heroic attacks on the dance, the theater, and other things which can't strike
back, and had stepped on him." And in still another place he had "killed a lightning-rod agent."
And so the list went on, growing redder and redder, and more and more heartbreaking. Sixty
persons had been killed, and two hundred and forty wounded. All the accounts bore just testimony
to the activity and devotion of the detectives, and all closed with the remark that "three
hundred thousand citizen; and four detectives saw the dread creature, and two of the latter
he destroyed."

I dreaded to hear the telegraphic instrument begin to click again. By and by the messages began
to pour in, but I was happily disappointed in they nature. It was soon apparent that all trace
of the elephant was lost. The fog had enabled him to search out a good hiding-place unobserved.
Telegrams from the most absurdly distant points reported that a dim vast mass had been glimpsed
there through the fog at such and such an hour, and was "undoubtedly the elephant." This dim
vast mass had been glimpsed in New Haven, in New Jersey, in Pennsylvania, in interior New York,
in Brooklyn, and even in the city of New York itself! But in all cases the dim vast mass had
vanished quickly and left no trace. Every detective of the large force scattered over this
huge extent of country sent his hourly report, and each and every one of them had a clue, and
was shadowing something, and was hot upon the heels of it.

But the day passed without other result.

The next day the same.

The next just the same.

The newspaper reports began to grow monotonous with facts that amounted to nothing, clues which
led to nothing, and theories which had nearly exhausted the elements which surprise and delight
and dazzle.

By advice of the inspector I doubled the reward.

Four more dull days followed. Then came a bitter blow to the poor, hard-working detectives--the
journalists declined to print their theories, and coldly said, "Give us a rest."

Two weeks after the elephant's disappearance I raised the reward to seventy-five thousand dollars
by the inspector's advice. It was a great sum, but I felt that I would rather sacrifice my
whole private fortune than lose my credit with my government. Now that the detectives were
in adversity, the newspapers turned upon them, and began to fling the most stinging sarcasms
at them. This gave the minstrels an idea, and they dressed themselves as detectives and hunted
the elephant on the stage in the most extravagant way. The caricaturists made pictures of detectives
scanning the country with spy-glasses, while the elephant, at their backs, stole apples out
of their pockets. And they made all sorts of ridiculous pictures of the detective badge--you
have seen that badge printed in gold on the back of detective novels, no doubt it is a wide-staring
eye, with the legend, "WE NEVER SLEEP." When detectives called for a drink, the would-be facetious
barkeeper resurrected an obsolete form of expression and said, "Will you have an eye-opener?"
All the air was thick with sarcasms.

But there was one man who moved calm, untouched, unaffected, through it all. It was that heart
of oak, the chief inspector. His brave eye never drooped, his serene confidence never wavered.
He always said:

"Let them rail on; he laughs best who laughs last."

My admiration for the man grew into a species of worship. I was at his side always. His office
had become an unpleasant place to me, and now became daily more and more so. Yet if he could
endure it I meant to do so also--at least, as long as I could. So I came regularly, and stayed--the
only outsider who seemed to be capable of it. Everybody wondered how I could; and often it
seemed to me that I must desert, but at such times I looked into that calm and apparently unconscious
face, and held my ground.

About three weeks after the elephant's disappearance I was about to say, one morning, that
I should have to strike my colors and retire, when the great detective arrested the thought
by proposing one more superb and masterly move.

This was to compromise with the robbers. The fertility of this man's invention exceeded anything
I have ever seen, and I have had a wide intercourse with the world's finest minds. Finally, Dona Rosario asked God for patience for so many hardships (those of home of
Dona Rosario Pardo were for them as their own). If all this had reached the ears of Nucha
through her husband or father, there was nothing unusual and sigh. He said:

"In compromises they always get half."

This removed my only objection. So the inspector wrote two notes, in this form:

     DEAR MADAM,--Your husband can make a large sum of money (and be
     entirely protected from the law) by making an immediate, appointment
     with me.                           Chief BLUNT.

He sent one of these by his confidential messenger to the "reputed wife" of Brick Duffy, and
the other to the reputed wife of Red McFadden.

Within the hour these offensive answers came:

     YE OWLD FOOL: brick Duffys bin ded 2 yere.
                                        BRIDGET MAHONEY.

     CHIEF BAT,--Red McFadden is hung and in heving 18 month.  Any Ass
     but a detective know that.
                                        MARY O'HOOLIGAN.

"I had long suspected these facts," said the inspector; "this testimony proves the unerring
accuracy of my instinct."

The moment one resource failed him he was ready with another. He immediately wrote an advertisement
for the morning papers, and I kept a copy of it:

     A.--xWhlv.  242 ht.  Tjnd--fz328wmlg.  Ozpo,--2 m!  2m!.  M! ogw.

He said that if the thief was alive this would bring him to the usual rendezvous. He further
explained that the usual rendezvous was a glare where all business affairs between detectives
and criminals were conducted. This meeting would take place at twelve the next night.

We could do nothing till then, and I lost no time in getting out of the office, and was grateful
indeed for the privilege.

At eleven the next night I brought one hundred thousand dollars in bank-notes and put them
into the chief's hands, and shortly afterward he took his leave, with the brave old undimmed
confidence in his eye. An almost intolerable hour dragged to a close; then I heard his welcome
tread, and rose gasping and tottered to meet him. How his fine eyes flamed with triumph! He said:

"We've compromised! The jokers will sing a different tune to-morrow! Follow me!"

He took a lighted candle and strode down into the vast vaulted basement where sixty detectives
always slept, and where a score were now playing cards to while the time. I followed close
after him. He walked swiftly down to the dim and remote end of the place, and just as I succumbed
to the pangs of suffocation and was swooning away he stumbled and fell over the outlying members
of a mighty object, and I heard him exclaim as he went down:

"Our noble profession is vindicated. Here is your elephant!"

I was carried to the office above and restored with carbolic acid. The whole detective force
swarmed in, and such another season of triumphant rejoicing ensued as I had never witnessed
before. The reporters were called, baskets of champagne were opened, toasts were drunk, the
handshakings and congratulations were continuous and enthusiastic. Naturally the chief was
the hero of the hour, and his happiness was so complete and had been so patiently and worthily
and bravely won that it made me happy to see it, though I stood there a homeless beggar, my
priceless charge dead, and my position in my country's service lost to me through what would
always seem my fatally careless execution of a great trust. Many an eloquent eye testified
its deep admiration for the chief, and many a detective's voice murmured, "Look at him--just
the king of the profession; only give him a clue, it's all he wants, and there ain't anything
hid that he can't find." The dividing of the fifty thousand dollars made great pleasure; when
it was finished the chief made a little speech while he put his share in his pocket, in which
he said, "Enjoy it, boys, for you've earned it; and, more than that, you've earned for the
detective profession undying fame."

A telegram arrived, which read:

                         MONROE, MICH., 10 P.M.
First time I've struck a telegraph office in over three weeks. Have
followed those footprints, horseback, through the woods, a thousand
miles to here, and they get stronger and bigger and fresher every day.
Don't worry-inside of another week I'll have the elephant. This is dead
sure.                         DARLEY, Detective.

The chief ordered three cheers for "Darley, one of the finest minds on the force," and then
commanded that he be telegraphed to come home and receive his share of the reward.

So ended that marvelous episode of the stolen elephant. The newspapers were pleasant with praises
once more, the next day, with one contemptible exception. This sheet said, "Great is the detective!
He may be a little slow in finding a little thing like a mislaid elephant he may hunt him all
day and sleep with his rotting carcass all night for three weeks, but he will find him at last
if he can get the man who mislaid him to show him the place!" He had already drawn their lines
for the next event of the election of deputies.

Trampeta with dizzying activity, the bed was the government candidate.
Very often going to the provincial capital, to confer with the governor.


The compromise cost me one hundred thousand dollars; my detective expenses were forty-two thousand
dollars more; I never applied for a place again under my government; I am a ruined man and
a wanderer on the earth but my admiration for that man, whom I believe to be the greatest detective
the world has ever produced, remains undimmed to this day, and will so remain unto the end.