M. de Chateauneuf thereupon committed the investigation to her and her husband.  Richard Talbot
took them first to the rooms where Mrs. Barbara Curll had taken up her abode, so as to be near
her husband, who was still a prisoner in Walsingham's house.  She fully confirmed all that
Mr. Talbot said of the Queen's complete acceptance of Cis as her daughter, and moreover consented
to come with the Salmonnets and Mr. Talbot, to visit the young lady on board the Mastiff.

Accordingly they went down the river together in Mr. Talbot's boat, and found Cicely, well
cloaked and muffled, sitting under an awning, under the care of old Goatley, who treated her
like a little queen, and was busy explaining to her all the different craft which filled the river.

She sprang up with the utmost delight at the sight of Mrs. Curll, and threw herself into her
arms.  There was an interchange of inquiries and comments that--unpremeditated as they were--could
not but convince the auditor of the terms on which the young lady had stood with Queen Mary
and her suite.

Afterwards Cicely took the two ladies to her cabin, a tiny box, but not uncomfortable according
to her habits, and there, on Barbara's persuasion, she permitted Madame de Salmonnet to see
the monograms on her shoulders.  The lady went home convinced of her identity, and came again
the next day with a gentleman in slouched hat, mask, and cloak.

As Cicely rose to receive him he uttered an exclamation of irrepressible astonishment, then
added, "Your Highness will pardon me. Exactly thus did her royal mother stand when I took leave
of her at Calais."

The Ambassador had thus been taken by storm, although the resemblance was more in figure and
gesture than feature, but Mrs. Curll could aver that those who had seen Bothwell were at no
loss to trace the derivation of the dark brows and somewhat homely features, in which the girl
differed from the royal race of Scotland.

What was to be done?  Queen Mary's letter to him begged him so far as was possible to give
her French protection, and avoid compromising "that excellent Talbot," and he thought it would
be wisest for her to await the coming of the Envoy Extraordinary, M. de Pomponne Bellievre,
and be presented by him.  In the meantime her remaining on board ship in this winter weather
would be miserably uncomfortable, and Richmond and Greenwich were so near that any intercourse
with her would be dangerous, especially if Langston was still in England. Account does not begin
till long mankind had acquired the power of communication, and even had the most ancient'content
are silent as with the property to which life in possession of his
earliest thoughts and words.  Therefore M de Chateauneuf's proposal that the young lady should
become Madame de Salmonnet's guest at the embassy was not unwelcome.  The lady was elderly,
Scottish, and, as M. de Chateauneuf with something of a shudder assured Mr. Talbot, "most respectable."
And it was hoped that it would not be for long.  So, having seen her safely made over to the
lady's care, Richard ventured for the first time to make his presence in London known to his
son, and to his kindred; and he was the more glad to have her in these quarters because Diccon
told him that there was no doubt that Langston was lurking about the town, and indeed he was
convinced that he had recognised that spy entering Walsingham's house in the dress of a scrivener.
He would not alarm Cicely, but he bade her keep all her goods in a state ready for immediate
departure, in case it should be needful to leave London at once after seeing the Queen.

The French Ambassador's abode was an old conventual building on the river-side, consisting
of a number of sets of separate chambers, like those of a college, opening on a quadrangle
in the centre, and with one side occupied by the state apartments and chapel.  This arrangement
eminently suited the French suite, every one of whom liked to have his own little arrangements
of cookery, and to look after his own marmite in his own way, all being alike horrified at
the gross English diet and lack of vegetables.  Many tried experiments in the way of growing
salads in little gardens of their own, with little heed to the once beautiful green grass-plot
which they broke up.

Inside that gate it was like a new country, and as all the shrill thin intonations of the French
rang in her ears, Cicely could hardly believe that she had--she said--only a brick wall between
her and old England.

M. de Salmonnet was unmistakably a Scot by descent, though he had never seen the land of his
ancestors.  His grandfather bad been ennobled, but only belonged to the lesser order of the
noblesse, being exempted from imposts, but not being above employment, especially in diplomacy.
He had acted as secretary, interpreter, and general factotum, to a whole succession of ambassadors,
and thus his little loge, as he called it, had become something of a home.  His wife had once
or twice before had to take charge of young ladies, French or English, who were confided to
the embassy, and she had a guest chamber for them, a small room, but with an oriel window overhanging
the Thames and letting in the southern sun, so as almost to compensate for the bareness of
the rest, where there was nothing but a square box-bed, a chest, and a few toilette essentials,
to break upon the dulness of the dark wainscoted walls. Madame herself came to sleep with her
guest, for lonely nights were regarded with dread in those times, and indeed she seemed to
regard it as her duty never to lose sight of her charge for a moment.

Madame de Salmonnet's proper bed-chamber was the only approach to this little room, but that
mattered the less as it was also the parlour! The bed, likewise a box, was in the far-off recesses,
and the family were up and astir long before the November sun.  Dressed Madame could scarcely
be called--the costume in which she assisted Babette and queer wizened old Pierrot in doing
the morning's work, horrified Cicely, used as she was to Mistress Susan's scrupulous neatness.
Downstairs there was a sort of office room of Monsieur's, where the family meals were taken,
and behind it an exceedingly small kitchen, where Madame and Pierrot performed marvels of cookery,
surpassing those of Queen Mary's five cooks.

Cicely longed to assist in them, and after a slight demur, she was permitted to do so, chiefly
because her duenna could not otherwise watch her and the confections at the same time.  Cis
could never make out whether it was as princess or simply as maiden that she was so closely
watched, for Madame bristled and swelled like a mother cat about to spring at a strange dog,
if any gentleman of the suite showed symptoms of accosting her.  Nay, when Mr. Talbot once
brought Diccon in with him, and there was a greeting, which to Cicely's mind was dismally cold
and dry, the lady was so scandalised that Cicely was obliged formally to tell her that she
would answer for it to the Queen.  On Sunday, Mr. Talbot always came to take her to church,
and this was a terrible grievance to Madame, though it was to Cicely the one refreshment of
the week.  If it had been only the being out of hearing of her hostess's incessant tongue,
the walk would have been a refreshment.  Madame de Salmonnet had been transported from home
so young that she was far more French than Scottish; she was a small woman full of activity
and zeal of all kinds, though perhaps most of all for her pot au feu. Nothing, and do no doubt,
would be more interesting that to cognize from the documents do the man and began to lisp
his first words, and then to be rid forever been to the theories on girl.
  Indeed, much
more of her conversation consisted of speculations on the tenderness of the poultry, or the
freshness of the fish, than of anything that went much deeper.  She did, however, spend much
time in describing the habits and customs of the pensioners at Soissons; the maigre food they
had to eat; their tricks upon the elder and graver nuns, and a good deal besides that was amusing
at first, but which became rather wearisome, and made Cicely wonder what either of her mothers
would have thought of it.

The excuse for all this was to enable the maiden to make her appearance before Queen Elizabeth
as freshly brought from Soissons by her mother's danger.  Mary herself had suggested this,
as removing all danger from the Talbots, and as making it easier for the French Embassy to
claim and protect Cis herself; and M. de Chateauneuf had so far acquiesced as to desire Madame
de Salmonnet to see whether the young lady could be prepared to assume the character before
eyes that would not be over qualified to judge.  Cis, however, had always been passive when
the proposal was made, and the more she heard from Madame de Salmonnet, the more averse she
was to it.  The only consideration that seemed to her in its favour was the avoidance of implicating
her foster-father, but a Sunday morning spent with him removed the scruple.

"I know I cannot feign," she said.  "They all used to laugh at me at Chartley for being too
much of the downright mastiff to act a part."

"I am right glad to hear it," said Richard.

"Moreover," added Cicely, "if I did try to turn my words with the Scottish or French ring,
I wot that the sight of the Queen's Majesty and my anxiety would drive out from me all I should
strive to remember, and I should falter and utter mere folly; and if she saw I was deceiving
her, there would be no hope at all.  Nay, how could I ask God Almighty to bless my doing with
a lie in my mouth?"

"There spake my Susan's own maid," said Richard.  "'Tis the joy of my heart that they have
not been able to teach thee to lie with a good grace.  Trust my word, my wench, truth is the
only wisdom, and one would have thought they might have learnt it by this time."

"I only doubted, lest it should be to your damage, dear father.  Can they call it treason?"

"I trow not, my child.  The worst that could hap would be that I might be lodged in prison
a while, or have to pay a fine; and liefer, far liefer, would I undergo the like than that
those lips of thine should learn guile.  I say not that there is safety for any of us, least
of all for thee, my poor maid, but the danger is tenfold increased by trying to deceive; and,
moreover, it cannot be met with a good conscience."

"Moreover," said Cicely, "I have pleadings and promises to make on my mother-queen's behalf
that would come strangely amiss if I had to feign that I had never seen her!  May I not seek
the Queen at once, without waiting for this French gentleman?  Then would this weary, weary
time be at an end!  Each time I hear a bell, or a cannon shot, I start and think, Oh! has she
signed the warrant?  Is it too late?"

"There is no fear of that," said Richard; "I shall know from Will Cavendish the instant aught
is done, and through Diccon I could get thee brought to the Queen's very chamber in time to
plead.  Meantime, the Queen is in many minds.  She cannot bear to give up her kinswoman; she
sits apart and mutters, 'Aut fer aut feri,' and 'Ne feriare feri.' Her ladies say she tosses
and sighs all night, and hath once or twice awoke shrieking that she was covered with blood.
It is Burghley and Walsingham who are forcing this on, and not her free will.  Strengthen but
her better will, and let her feel herself secure, and she will spare, and gladly."

"That do I hope to do," said Cicely, encouraged.  The poor girl had to endure many a vicissitude
and heart-sinking before M. de Bellievre appeared; and when he did come, he was a disappointment.

He was a most magnificent specimen of the mignons of Henri's court. The Embassy rang with stories
of the number of mails he had brought, of the milk baths he sent for, the gloves he slept in,
the valets who tweaked out superfluous hairs from his eyebrows, the delicacies required for
his little dogs.

M. de Salmonnet reported that on hearing the story of "Mademoiselle," as Cicely was called
in the Embassy, he had twirled the waxed ends of his moustaches into a satirical twist, and
observed, "That is well found, and may serve as a last resource."

He never would say that he disbelieved what he was told of her; and when presented to her,
he behaved with an exaggerated deference which angered her intensely, for it seemed to her
mockery of her pretensions. No doubt his desire was that Mary's life should be granted to the
intercession of his king rather than to any other consideration; and therefore once, twice,
thrice, he had interviews with Elizabeth, and still he would not take the anxious suppliant,
who was in an agony at each disappointment, as she watched the gay barge float down the river,
and who began to devise setting forth alone, to seek the Queen at Richmond and end it all!
She would have done so, but that Diccon told her that since the alarm caused by Barnwell, it
had become so much more difficult to approach the Queen that she would have no hope.

But she was in a restless state that made Madame de Salmonnet's chatter almost distracting,
when at last, far on in January, M. de Salmonnet came in.

"Well, mademoiselle, the moment is come.  The passports are granted, but Monsieur the Ambassador
Extraordinary has asked for a last private audience, and he prays your Highness to be ready
to accompany him at nine of the clock to-morrow morning."

Cicely's first thought was to send tidings to Mr. Talbot, and in this M. de Salmonnet assisted
her, though his wife thought it very superfluous to drag in the great, dull, heavy, English
sailor.  The girl longed for a sight and speech of him all that evening in vain, though she
was sure she saw the Mastiff's boat pass down the river, and most earnestly did she wish she
could have had her chamber to herself for the prayers and preparations, on which Madame's tongue
broke so intolerably that she felt as if she should ere long be wild and senseless, and unable
to recollect anything.

She had only a little peace when Madame rose early in the morning and left her, thinking her
asleep, for a brief interval, which gave her time to rally her thoughts and commend herself
to her only Guide.

She let Madame dress her, as had been determined, in perfectly plain black, with a cap that
would have suited "a novice out of convent shade." 'She began de Adam is no scottish right, when he
says that the cave which is called of formation, gave the name at
all other caves;... and the might to be cited in support of his view.

And it is madame that all proper or individual affairs have been apparently been small or general.'almost
regard that the whole and originally cicely nature
of the kinds, Professor Müller shows that they are not madame.
  She felt frightfully alone amongst
all those foreign tongues, above all when the two ambassadors crossed the court to M. de Salmonnet's
little door.  Bellievre, rolled up in splendid sables from head to foot, bowed down to the
ground before her, almost sweeping the pavement with his plume, and asked in his deferential
voice of mockery if her Royal Highness would do him the honour of accepting his escort.

Cicely bent her head and said in French, "I thank you, sir," giving him her hand; and there
was a grave dignity in the action that repressed him, so that he did not speak again as he
led her to the barge, which was covered in at the stern so as to afford a shelter from the wind.

Her quick eye detected the Mastiff's boat as she was handed down the stairs, and this was some
relief, while she was placed in the seat of honour, with an ambassador on each side of her.

"May I ask," demanded Bellievre, waving a scented handkerchief, "what her Highness is prepared
to say, in case I have to confirm it?"

"I thank your Excellency," replied Cicely, "but I mean to tell the simple truth; and as your
Excellency has had no previous knowledge of me, I do not see how you can confirm it."

The two gentlemen looked at one another, and Chateauneuf said, "Do I understand her Royal Highness
that she does not come as the pensionnaire from Soissons, as the Queen had recommended?"

"No, sir," said Cicely; "I have considered the matter, and I could not support the character.
All that I ask of your Excellencies is to bring me into the presence of Queen Elizabeth.  I
will do the rest myself, with the help of God."

"Perhaps she is right," said the one ambassador to the other.  "These English are incomprehensible!"

CHAPTER XLII.

THE SUPPLICATION.

In due time the boat drew up at the stairs leading to the palace of Richmond.  Cicely, in the
midst of her trepidation, perceived that Diccon was among the gentlemen pensioners who made
a lane from the landing to receive them, as she was handed along by M. de Bellievre. In the
hall there was a pause, during which the mufflings were thrown off, and Cicely appeared in
her simple black, a great contrast to her cavalier, who was clad from neck to knee in pale
pink satin, quilted, and with a pearl at each intersection, earrings in his ears, perfumed
and long-fringed gloves in his hand--a perfect specimen of the foppery of the Court of France.
However, he might have been in hodden gray without her perceiving it.  She had the sensation
of having plunged into deep, unknown waters, without rope or plank, and being absolutely forced
to strike out for herself; yet the very urgency of the moment, acting on her high blood and
recent training, made her, outwardly, perfectly self-possessed and calm.  She walked along,
holding her head in the regal manner that was her inheritance, and was so utterly absorbed
in the situation that she saw nothing, and thought only of the Queen.

This was to be a private audience, and after a minute's demur with the clerk of the chamber,
when Chateauneuf made some explanation, a door was opened, a curtain withdrawn, and the two
ambassadors and the young lady were admitted to Elizabeth's closet, where she sat alone, in
an arm-chair with a table before her.  Cicely's first glance at the Queen reminded her of the
Countess, though the face was older, and had an intellect and a grandeur latent in it, such
as Bess of Hardwicke had never possessed; but it was haggard and worn, the eyelids red, either
with weeping, or with sleeplessness, and there was an anxious look about the keen light hazel
eyes which was sometimes almost pathetic, and gave Cicely hope.  To the end of her days she
never could recollect how the Queen was arrayed; she saw nothing but the expression in those
falcon eyes, and the strangely sensitive mouth, which bewrayed the shrewish nose and chin,
and the equally inconsistent firmness of the jaw.

The first glance Cicely encountered was one of utter amazement and wrath, as the Queen exclaimed,
"Whom have you brought hither, Messieurs?"

Before either could reply, she, whom they had thought a raw, helpless girl, moved forward,
and kneeling before Elizabeth said, "It is I, so please your Majesty, I, who have availed myself
of the introduction of their Excellencies to lay before your Majesty a letter from my mother,
the Queen of Scots."

Queen Elizabeth made so vehement and incredulous an exclamation of amazement that Cicely was
the more reminded of the Countess, and this perhaps made her task the easier, and besides,
she was not an untrained rustic, but had really been accustomed to familiar intercourse with
a queen, who, captive as she was, maintained full state and etiquette.

She therefore made answer with dignity, "If it will please your Majesty to look at this letter,
you will see the proofs of what I say, and that I am indeed Bride Hepburn, the daughter of
Queen Mary's last marriage. I was born at Lochleven on the 20th of February of the year of
grace 1567," (footnote--1568 according to our calendar) "and thence secretly sent in the Bride
of Dunbar to be bred up in France.  The ship was wrecked, and all lost on board, but I was,
by the grace of God, picked up by a good and gallant gentleman of my Lord of Shrewsbury's following,
Master Richard Talbot of Bridgefield, who brought me up as his own daughter, all unknowing
whence I came or who I was, until three years ago, when one of the secret agents who had knowledge
of the affairs of the Queen of Scots made known to her that I was the babe who had been embarked
in the Bride of Dunbar."

"Verily, thou must be a bold wench to expect me to believe such a mere minstrel's tale," said
Elizabeth.

"Nevertheless, madam, it is the simple truth, as you will see if you deign to open this packet."

"And who or where is this same honourable gentleman who brought you up--Richard Talbot?  I
have heard that name before!"

"He is here, madam.  He will confirm all I say."

The Queen touched a little bell, and ordered Master Talbot of Bridgefield to be brought to
her, while, hastily casting her eyes on the credentials, she demanded of Chateauneuf, "Knew
you aught of this, sir?"

"I know only what the Queen of Scotland has written and what this Monsieur Talbot has told
me, madam," said Chateauneuf.  "There can be no doubt that the Queen of Scotland has treated
her as a daughter, and owns her for such in her letter to me, as well as to your Majesty."

"And the letters are no forgery?"

"Mine is assuredly not, madam; I know the private hand of the Queen of Scots too well to be
deceived.  Moreover, Madame Curll, the wife of the Secretary, and others, can speak to the
manner in which this young lady was treated."

"Openly treated as a daughter!  That passes, sir.  My faithful subjects would never have left
me uninformed!"

"So please your Majesty," here the maiden ventured, "I have always borne the name of Cicely
Talbot, and no one knows what is my real birth save those who were with my mother at Lochleven,
excepting Mrs. Curll. The rest even of her own attendants only understood me to be a Scottish
orphan.  My true lineage should never have been known, were it not a daughter's duty to plead
for her mother."

By this time Mr. Talbot was at the door, and he was received by the Queen with, "So ho! Master
Talbot, how is this?  You, that have been vaunted to us as the very pink of fidelity, working
up a tale that smacks mightily of treason and leasing!"

"The truth is oft stranger than any playwright can devise," said Richard, as he knelt.

"If it be truth, the worse for you, sir," said the Queen, hotly. "What colour can you give
to thus hiding one who might, forsooth, claim royal blood, tainted though it be?"

"Pardon me, your Grace.  For many years I knew not who the babe was whom I had taken from the
wreck, and when the secret of her birth was discovered, I deemed it not mine own but that of
the Queen of Scots."

"A captive's secrets are not her own, and are only kept by traitors," said Elizabeth, severely.

At this Cicely threw herself forward with glowing cheeks.  "Madam, madam, traitor never was
named in the same breath with Master Talbot's name before.  If he kept the secret, it was out
of pity, and knowing no hurt could come to your Majesty by it."

"Thou hast a tongue, wench, be thou who thou mayst," said Elizabeth sharply.  "Stand back,
and let him tell his own tale."

Richard very briefly related the history of the rescue of the infant, which he said he could
confirm by the testimony of Goatley and of Heatherthwayte.  He then explained how Langston
had been present when she was brought home, and had afterwards made communications to the Queen
of Scots that led to the girl, already in attendance on her, being claimed and recognised;
after which he confessed that he had not the heart to do what might separate the mother and
daughter by declaring their relationship. If, on the reverse, where we tried to gestate with the
mr make empty-turn in torso mind; the conceptualization of an moment
without a origin, of a full-turn noddle without a growing, would equally
transcend our reasoning whose powers.

Here Cicely, fearing an instant dismissal, clasped her hands, and on her knees exclaimed, "Madam!
it will not matter.  No trouble shall ever be caused by my drop of royal blood; no one shall
ever even know that Bride of Scotland exists, save the few who now know it, and have kept the
secret most faithfully.  I seek no state; all I ask is my mother's life.  O madam, would you
but see her, and speak with her, you would know how far from her thoughts is any evil to your
royal person!"

"Tush, wench! we know better.  Is this thy lesson?"

"None hath taught me any lesson, madam.  I know what my mother's enemies have, as they say,
proved against her, and I know they say that while she lives your Grace cannot be in security."

"That is what moves my people to demand her death," said Elizabeth.

"It is not of your own free will, madam, nor of your own kind heart," cried Cicely.  "That
I well know!  And, madam, I will show you the way. Let but my mother be escorted to some convent
abroad, in France or Austria, or anywhere beyond the reach of Spain, and her name should be
hidden from everyone!  None should know where to seek her. Not even the Abbess should know
her name.  She would be prisoned in a cell, but she would be happy, for she would have life
and the free exercise of her religion.  No English Papist, no Leaguer, none should ever trace
her, and she would disquiet you no more."

"And who is to answer that, when once beyond English bounds, she should not stir up more trouble
than ever?" demanded Elizabeth.

"That do I," said the girl.  "Here am I, Bride Hepburn, ready to live in your Majesty's hands
as a hostage, whom you might put to death at the first stirring on her behalf."

"Silly maid, we have no love of putting folk to death," said Elizabeth, rather hurt.  "That
is only for traitors, when they forfeit our mercy."

"Then, O madam, madam, what has been done in her name cannot forfeit mercy for her!  She was
shut up in prison; I was with her day and night, and I know she had naught to do with any evil
purpose towards your Majesty.  Ah! you do not believe me!  I know they have found her guilty,
and that is not what I came to say," she continued, getting bewildered in her earnestness for
a moment.  "No.  But, gracious Queen, you have spared her often; I have heard her say that
you had again and again saved her life from those who would fain have her blood."

"It is true," said Elizabeth, half softened.

"Save her then now, madam," entreated the girl.  "Let her go beyond their reach, yet where
none shall find her to use her name against you. Let me go to her at Fotheringhay with these
terms.  She will consent and bless and pray for you for ever; and here am I, ready to do what
you will with me!"

"To hang about Court, and be found secretly wedded to some base groom!"

