The Naval War of 1812

                           or the
           History of the United States Navy during
               the Last War with Great Britain
              to Which Is Appended an Account of
                  the Battle of New Orleans

                    By Theodore Roosevelt

                   With an Introduction by
                       Edward K. Eckert

CONTENTS

List of Illustrations

Acknowledgments

Introduction

The Naval War of 1812

Index

ILLUSTRATIONS

Captain Isaac Hull

Constitution vs. Guerriere: "The Engagement"

Constitution vs. Guerriere: "In Action"

Constitution vs. Guerriere: "Dropping Astern"

Constitution vs. Guerriere: "She Fell in the Sea" 

Despite these facilities and advantages that had long been fond Countess Poldy both solitude, he would
not Vienna, and left the castle and its rustic surroundings.

His conversation with Count Henry eventually infuse the same spirit of curiosity, same desire for
knowledge and no less committed fans to all kinds of studies. It, however, predominant love
of poetry, especially when aimed at examining the intimate the soul to seek their own mysterious
depths, and then seek and find the language adequate human expression
of his dreams, longings and vague beliefs and hopes.

Something pantheistic mysticism filled and flooded his mind, it was full and transcended Outdoor
become deep feeling for nature and contemplative and ecstatic rapture
of the remote stars in the sky and flowers and plants in the intricate
and lush forest almost around the castle.

During the winter, the Countess Poldy, held in the castle by rain and ice, was not so long walks
or were his excursions as restful and contemplative as in spring and summer. But during the
spring, it made up for their forced confinement staying long hours in the forest. And stopped
to meditate, and went slowly and without certain direction, and it stopped, or look at a flower,
a butterfly, a dragonfly, or the capricious effects of light through the green branches or
heard singing birds or the murmur of water from the stream to break
into the pebbles, or the gentle whisper aura of the green and leaves
early.

When the Countess gave these rides Poldy pensive as he left, as she
used to say, in pursuit of poetic impressions, did not like anyone
to accompany her, always went alone.

There appear to be three works which, taken in combination, give the best satisfaction on the
subject. First, in James' "Naval History of Great Britain" (which supplies both the material
and the opinions of almost every subsequent English or Canadian historian) can be found the
British view of the case. It is an invaluable work, written with fulness and care; on the other
hand it is also a piece of special pleading by a bitter and not over-scrupulous partisan. This,
in the second place, can be partially supplemented by Fenimore Cooper's "Naval History of the
United States." The latter gives the American view of the cruises and battles; but it is much
less of an authority than James', both because it is written without great regard for exactness,
and because all figures for the American side need to be supplied from Lieutenant (now Admiral)
George E. Emmons' statistical "History of the United States Navy," which is the third of the
works in question.

But even after comparing these three authors, many contradictions remain unexplained, and the
truth can only be reached in such cases by a careful examination of the navy "Records," the
London "Naval Chronicle," "Niles' Register," and other similar documentary publications. Almost
the only good criticisms on the actions are those incidentally given in standard works on other
subjects, such as Lord Howard Douglass' "Naval Gunnery," and Admiral Jurien de la Graviere's
"Guerres Maritimes." Much of the material in our Navy Department has never been touched at
all. In short, no full, accurate, and unprejudiced history of the war has ever been written.

The subject merits a closer scrutiny than it has received. It is worth while to study with
some care that period of our history during which our navy stood at the highest pitch of its
fame; and to learn any thing from the past it is necessary to know, as near as may be, the
exact truth. Accordingly the work should be written impartially, if only from the narrowest
motives. The noise that made water, goose frogs,
it was the only thing that interrupted the wonderful silence that
reigned in lathe.

Poldy, by thoughtless and curious instinct, continued walking along the Bank of the lagoon toward
the site where the Tower looked like. And while already very close to him, he was suddenly an object
that, even though she was not shy, he was a nervous sway, for showing so suddenly and when
less so suspicious. It was a large white stork, which left behind of the Tower, and without
the least dismay, but mansa and serene, it came towards Poldy with step slow, serious and
majestic. From time to time moving the head to one side and another with funny vanity. When it
was close, he gave some hoops, stretched and broke the long wings as in jubilation, and opening
and closing several times the Red peak, produced a very similar to the of castanets are. Turning
then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if the respect would contain you, followed
by the basking bird walking towards Poldy, and stopping at every
two or three steps as if you awaiting permission to reach it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird; did not fear anything because it was considered harmless,
but it surprised that he showed so loving and so resolutely and long Strider their stringers, you
come to it as if it were an old friend of his. You would have known and dealt with before and would
not remember it then? Poldy sought in vain all the more deep and forgotten breasts of his memory
some vague memories of that knowledge and treatment. It was not the lower trail or the lighter
footprint of having ever had. The same Stork let her see that she had never met Poldy, because although
it wise not to express themselves in any human language, but only with the resonant castañetazos
of its peak, the slow pace of its progress, frequent stops and each one of the looks that his
Brown eyes directed to Poldy seemed to mean interrogation and appeal, as if say: funny Countess,
can I V. e. me closer and treat it? There were also in the Stork a do not know what of exotic:
somewhat weird if, quite similar to that note in a traveller of distinction, come from very
remote countries, with whom by such a face and conducting conversation without thinking about it
or pretend it and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy, no doubt, sympathised with the Stork In conclusion I desire to express my sincerest thanks to Captain James
D. Bulloch, formerly of the United States Navy, and Commander Adolf Mensing, formerly of the
German Navy, without whose advice and sympathy this work would probably never have been written
or even begun.

NEW YORK CITY, 1882.

PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION

I originally intended to write a companion volume to this, which should deal with the operations
on land. But a short examination showed that these operations were hardly worth serious study.
They teach nothing new; it is the old, old lesson, that a miserly economy in preparation may
in the end involve a lavish outlay of men and money, which, after all, comes too late to more
than partially offset the evils produced by the original short-sighted parsimony. This might
be a lesson worth dwelling on did it have any practical bearing on the issues of the present
day; but it has none, as far as the army is concerned. It was criminal folly for Jefferson,
and his follower Madison, to neglect to give us a force either of regulars or of well-trained
volunteers during the twelve years they had in which to prepare for the struggle that any one
might see was inevitable; but there is now far less need of an army than there was then. Circumstances
have altered widely since 1812. Instead of the decaying might of Spain on our southern frontier,
we have the still weaker power of Mexico. Instead of the great Indian nations of the interior,
able to keep civilization at bay, to hold in check strong armies, to ravage large stretches
of territory, and needing formidable military expeditions to overcome them, there are now only
left broken and scattered bands, which are sources of annoyance merely. To the north we are
still hemmed in by the Canadian possessions of Great Britain; but since 1812 our strength has
increased so prodigiously, both absolutely and relatively, while England's military power has
remained almost stationary, that we need now be under no apprehensions from her land-forces;
for, even if checked in the beginning, we could not help conquering in the end by sheer weight
of numbers, if by nothing else. So that there is now no cause for our keeping up a large army;
while, on the contrary, the necessity for an efficient navy is so evident that only our almost
incredible short-sightedness prevents our at once preparing one.

Not only do the events of the war on land teach very little to the statesman who studies history
in order to avoid in the present the mistakes of the past, but besides this, the battles and
campaigns are of little interest to the student of military matters. The British regulars,
trained in many wars, thrashed the raw troops opposed to them whenever they had any thing like
a fair chance; but this is not to be wondered at, for the same thing has always happened the
world over under similar conditions. Our defeats were exactly such as any man might have foreseen,
and there is nothing to be learned from the follies committed by incompetent commanders and
untrained troops when in the presence of skilled officers having under them disciplined soldiers. Simple and elegantly dressed; wearing a Italian straw
hat on a graceful head and in the slope of the left arm a small wicker basket. The day was not
for meditiation and contemplation of the natural beauty but for the
purpose of the trip. The Peninsular troops were as little able
to withstand the French veterans as were our militia to hold their own against the British
regulars. But it must always be remembered, to our credit, that while seven years of fighting
failed to make the Spaniards able to face the French,[Footnote: At the closing battle of Toulouse,
fought between the allies and the French, the flight of the Spaniards was so rapid and universal
as to draw from the Duke of Wellington the bitter observation, that "though he had seen a good
many remarkable things in the course of his life, yet this was the first time he had ever seen
ten thousand men running a race."] two years of warfare gave us soldiers who could stand against
the best men of Britain. On the northern frontier we never developed a great general,--Brown's
claim to the title rests only on his not having committed the phenomenal follies of his predecessors,--but
by 1814 our soldiers had become seasoned, and we had acquired some good brigade commanders,
notably Scott, so that in that year we played on even terms with the British. But the battles,
though marked by as bloody and obstinate fighting as ever took place, were waged between small
bodies of men, and were not distinguished by any feats of generalship, so that they are not
of any special interest to the historian. In fact, the only really noteworthy feat of arms
of the war took place at New Orleans, and the only military genius that the struggle developed
was Andrew Jackson. His deeds are worthy of all praise, and the battle he won was in many ways
so peculiar as to make it well worth a much closer study than it has yet received. It was by
far the most prominent event of the war; it was a victory which reflected high honor on the
general and soldiers who won it, and it was in its way as remarkable as any of the great battles
that took place about the same time in Europe. Such being the case, I have devoted a chapter
to its consideration at the conclusion of the chapters devoted to the naval operations.

As before said, the other campaigns on land do not deserve very minute attention; but, for
the sake of rendering the account of the battle of New Orleans more intelligible, I will give
a hasty sketch of the principal engagements that took place elsewhere.

The war opened in mid-summer of 1812, by the campaign of General Hull on the Michigan frontier.
With two or three thousand raw troops he invaded Canada. About the same time Fort Mackinaw
was surrendered by its garrison of 60 Americans to a British and Indian force of 600. Hull's
campaign was unfortunate from the beginning. Near Brownstown the American Colonel Van Horne,
with some 200 men, was ambushed and routed by Tecumseh and his Indians. In revenge Col. Miller,
with 600 Americans, at Maguaga attacked 150 British and Canadians under Capt. Muir, and 250
Indians under Tecumseh, and whipped them,--Tecumseh's Indians standing their ground longest.
The Americans lost 75, their foes 180 men. At Chicago the small force of 66 Americans was surprised
and massacred by the Indians. 

Poldy could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from the Promise. So, soon broke
the tie bar through the clothes hanging bird's neck and kept the
commitment in his hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry, then stork could consider stripping, abruptly withdrew from
the lady's wings and flew, rose in the air and eventually view.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but ultimately dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had no intention of staying with clothes and was willing to return if the
bird bird turned to her and somehow the application.

Poldy collapsed after more than a few feet of ribbon was wound on silk fabric, shaping the ball,
and loose cloth that was the color of apricot, was written in black ink with too many odd lines
and small letters. He looked at them and Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. And, although
it was moderately exploited wisely and disciple of his brother Henry Earl, could not quite careful to
determine what language and alphabet and words are signs. He suspected, however, that the inscriptions
on silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and pleasure of his brother,
Count Henry.

III returned to the castle Poldy stimulated by curiosity and the
desire to decipher his brother what he said fabric.

Packed with good appetite, and then, while the widowed countess slept
after lunch, as was the custom, he went to the library with his brother
Henry, told him about mosquito birds learned to weave silk asked translate
what he wrote.

Count Henry testified that he was well versed in the language to translate the lyrics Valmiki suddenly
as they were, without doubt, the lyrics have been in the fabric, but requested time to her sister
have promised an accurate translation of all the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the search number Poldy, took it back to the library,
and showed her triumphant and translated lyrics. - Do not know what
to think, his sister said. Sometimes I imagine that the stork came
from India, where he spent the winter, and the lyrics are the work
of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I guess
it may well be a fellow scientist who wrote our lyrics and hung cloth
stork neck to tease the man who found it. - What purpose - Poldy said,
was to propose a countryman of ours that wrong?

I do not know the lyrics yet, but I made sure that the author lives
on the banks of the Indus and Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the
Danube.

Let's
see ... read. - You will see and find some inspiration in the verses
more European than Asian.

The compositions are three: two very short, and one of those two seems to be modeled on the
four verses of the prologue in heaven Faust. The coincidence is unlikely.
And, although not impossible, it seems strange and suspicious that
a Brahmin read Goethe and imitate him. - Come on, read the lyrics without
further preface. - The lyrics say: I want to ask his star shining,
the sky like a completely natural, and close or love, or love quietly
moved my heart. - True, "said Poldy, the lyrics are very similar to
those of Goethe, unless the poet says of himself as Faust tells Mephistopheles.
- Well, I hear the others who have not stopped Christian mysticism
metaphysical style that Tauler and Professor Eckart: no wings and
no light in vain to perfect the human mind is released, but crosses
will Eternal offers tremendous hope. - That's true - Poldy said, and
the same can happen to an Indian, a Christian .

In India, since ancient times, so I heard, mystics as
profound as those in Germany.

Moreover, all countries must be thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could enter and
come up with a love that goes up and enter the reason is subtle and
high. - I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahmin may have composed the song that I just said translated.
Maybe I did a translation on the European than the original not.

Hear now the final composition. poet and mystic within the folds of her growth and human women
as any earthly love, sensual love and inspire us. Something, however, is yet another composition
of mysticism. It's a small piece of the Song Songs, or rather, Gita
Govinda, whose compliments, descriptions and material sensitivity
can be interpreted by otherworldly and transcendent style.


The presence of the British mercenaries did not alter the character of the contest; it merely
served to show the bitter and narrow hatred with which the Mother-Island regarded her greater
daughter, predestined as the latter was to be queen of the lands that lay beyond the Atlantic.

Meanwhile, on Lake Ontario, the Americans made successful descents on York and Fort George,
scattering or capturing their comparatively small garrisons; while a counter descent by the
British on Sackett's Harbor failed, the attacking force being too small. After the capture
of Fort George, the Americans invaded Canada; but their advance guard, 1,400 strong, under
Generals Chandler and Winder, was surprised in the night by 800 British, who, advancing with
the bayonet, broke up the camp, capturing both the generals and half the artillery. Though
the assailants, who lost 220 of their small number, suffered much more than the Americans,
yet the latter were completely demoralized, and at once retreated to Fort George. Soon afterward,
Col. Boerstler with about 600 men surrendered with shamefully brief resistance to a somewhat
smaller force of British and Indians. Then about 300 British crossed the Niagara to attack
Black Rock, which they took, but were afterward driven off by a large body of militia with
the loss of 40 men. Later in the season the American General McClure wantonly burned the village
of Newark, and then retreated in panic flight across the Niagara. In retaliation the British
in turn crossed the river; 600 regulars surprised and captured in the night Fort Niagara, with
its garrison of 400 men; two thousand troops attacked Black Rock, and after losing over a hundred
men in a smart engagement with somewhat over 1,500 militia whom they easily dispersed, captured
and burned both it and Buffalo. Before these last events took place another invasion of Canada
had been attempted, this time under General Wilkinson, "an unprincipled imbecile," as Scott
very properly styled him. It was mismanaged in every possible way, and was a total failure;
it was attended with but one battle, that of Chrystler's Farm, in which 1,000 British, with
the loss of less than 200 men, beat back double their number of Americans, who lost nearly
500 men and also one piece of artillery. The American army near Lake Champlain had done nothing,
its commander, General Wade Hampton, being, if possible, even more incompetent than Wilkinson.
He remained stationary while a small force of British plundered Plattsburg and Burlington;
then, with 5,000 men he crossed into Canada, but returned almost immediately, after a small
skirmish at Chauteaugay between his advance guard and some 500 Canadians, in which the former
lost 41 and the latter 22 men. This affair, in which hardly a tenth of the American force was
engaged, has been, absurdly enough, designated a "battle" by most British and Canadian historians.
In reality it was the incompetency of their general and not the valor of their foes that caused
the retreat of the Americans. The same comment, by the way, applies to the so-called "Battle"
of Plattsburg, in the following year, which may have been lost by Sir George Prevost, but was
certainly not won by the Americans. And, again, a similar criticism should be passed on General
Wilkinson's attack on La Colle Mill, near the head of the same lake. Neither one of the three
affairs was a stand-up fight; in each a greatly superior force, led by an utterly incapable
general, retreated after a slight skirmish with an enemy whose rout would have been a matter
of certainty had the engagement been permitted to grow serious.

In the early spring of 1814 a small force of 160 American regulars, under Captain Holmes, fighting
from behind felled logs, routed 200 British with a loss of 65 men, they themselves losing but
8. On Lake Ontario the British made a descent on Oswego and took it by fair assault; and afterward
lost 180 men who tried to cut out some American transports, and were killed or captured to
a man. All through the spring and early summer the army on the Niagara frontier was carefully
drilled by Brown, and more especially by Scott, and the results of this drilling were seen
in the immensely improved effectiveness of the soldiers in the campaign that opened in July. The Countess widow was one lady equipped with a spirit
so positively prosaic, that without a doubt she had destroyed all the speeches of poetic suppositions
that Poldy had bought up, and that in some way wanted.

In addition, Countess Zaheri frequently blamed his daughter, describing her as outlandish, dreamy, deluded,
a staunch enemy of wisdom and reason, as well as a reckless persecution of ideals. If the Countess widow
thought that Poldy was ignoring the event of the stork, what then, would she say if he knew? Poldy did
not return, then, to talk about him or his brother, as if his own
brother ignored him, or as if she was under the pretense that he had
forgotten.

On his own, and in all freedom, Poldy was at their disposal talk of
of author of the three poetries.

Either he supposed to the author to be in Benarés, or in Delhi, or in
Calcutta, or in other places of India, but always noble, young and
beautiful, if not a prince.

The incognito personage suffered a similar mental disease to the one Poldy had. It's symptoms were
the disdain and the weariness of whatever surrounded him, and the
confusingly vague aspiration to a far-off goodness, nearly vanished
in the mists and vapors of a thousand dreams.

Poldy rejected the vulgar and foolish beliefs of his brother, that the author was a German scholar who
composed verses in Sanskrit to entertain himself, or to show his skill. For her however, there
was no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman
from India.

Poldy often went further still in his bold imaginations. She did not believe that the long-legged
bird which had appeared to him had even the smallest similarity with ever the swan of Leda, or the
white bull with the brave daughter of Agenor,but might the stork
not be an instrument of a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy,
whose powerful suggestions had been obeyed in it's coming to visit?

Who would dare to limit the extent of what was possible?

A memory came to Poldy of the story of the Thousand and One Nights, and he was delighted to boast that
she bore some resemblance to the story.
 The
struggle was of the most desperate character, the combatants showing a stubborn courage that
could not be surpassed. [Footnote: General Drummond writes: "In so determined a manner were
their attacks directed against our guns that our artillerymen were bayoneted while in the act
of loading, and the muzzle of the enemy's guns were advanced within a few yards of ours." Even
James says: "Upon the whole, however, the American troops fought bravely; and the conduct of
many of the officers, of the artillery corps especially, would have done honor to any service."]
Charge after charge was made with the bayonet, and the artillery was taken and retaken once
and again. The loss was nearly equal; on the side of the Americans, 854 men (including Generals
Brown and Scott, wounded) and two guns; on that of the British, 878 men (including General
Riall captured) and one gun. Each side claimed it as a victory over superior numbers. The truth
is beyond question that the British had the advantage in numbers, and a still greater advantage
in position; while it is equally beyond question that it was a defeat and not a victory for
the Americans. They left the field and retired in perfect order to Fort Erie, while the British
held the field and the next day pursued their foes.

Having received some reinforcements General Drummond, now with about 3,600 men, pushed forward
to besiege Fort Erie, in which was the American army, some 2,400 strong, under General Gaines.
Col. Tucker with 500 British regulars was sent across the Niagara to destroy the batteries
at Black Rock, but was defeated by 300 American regulars under Major Morgan, fighting from
behind a strong breastwork of felled trees, with a creek in front. On the night of the 15th
of August, the British in three columns advanced to storm the American works, but after making
a most determined assault were beaten off. The assailants lost 900 men, the assailed about
80. After this nothing was done till Sept. 17th, when General Brown, who had resumed command
of the American forces, determined upon and executed a sortie. Each side had received reinforcements;
the Americans numbered over 3,000, the British nearly 4,000. 

Someone would qualify this woman's priggish, irritating and even agonizing. I or uphold or damage.
The paint as she was, without evacuating it or put anything. His pride, to truth, granted that
it is not worth absent statement of regret, not unfounded, for the reason that, on Poldy be of
respectable genealogy and incorporate near their predecessors a courageous person who battled in Legnano,
by Frederick Barba-red in opposition to the guard of the Lombard League, and an additional who
was Crusader in Palestine, with the shrewd Emperor Frederick II, she was in itself grand and attentive
and such fine backbone and element of such vigor, that looked such
as a monarch and subjugated all wills.

Had sufficed his concise manifestations in Vienna, home of a parent's sister, to be moved the
folks behind it and declare it were hauptcomtesse or capital Condesa or princess and chief of the
lady all.

Decidedly, when she was well, had not been without beaus, right around the refined men of his
class; but, being truly critical and challenging to similar to, no suitor loved not fulfill him. One
appeared senseless, a different normal, a different ugly and alternate
profane.

What's more, none made affection to her, and hostile to marry to marry without being enamored, remained
unmarried.

Withdrawn very nearly unfailingly existed in the château, where he not saw or spoke to any individual
but his mother, his sibling and the individuals
that served. With a specific end goal, which is to profit, be that as
it may, some luxury and capacity to run over from chance to time in
Vienna without authority different than her cleaning specialist, at
twenty-two had been stiftdame or canoness.
 So utterly helpless was the Democratic Administration at Washington, that during the
two years of warfare hardly any steps had been taken to protect the Capitol, or the country
round about; what little was done, was done entirely too late, and bungled badly in addition.
History has not yet done justice to the ludicrous and painful folly and stupidity of which
the government founded by Jefferson, and carried on by Madison, was guilty, both in its preparations
for, and in its way of carrying on, this war; nor is it yet realized that the men just mentioned,
and their associates, are primarily responsible for the loss we suffered in it, and the bitter
humiliation some of its incidents caused us. The small British army marched at will through
Virginia and Maryland, burned Washington, and finally retreated from before Baltimore and reembarked
to take part in the expedition against New Orleans. Twice, at Bladensburg and North Point,
it came in contact with superior numbers of militia in fairly good position. In each case the
result was the same. After some preliminary skirmishing, manoeuvring, and volley firing, the
British charged with the bayonet. The rawest regiments among the American militia then broke
at once; the others kept pretty steady, pouring in quite a destructive fire, until the regulars
had come up close to them, when they also fled. The British regulars were too heavily loaded
to pursue, and, owing to their mode of attack, and the rapidity with which their opponents
ran away, the loss of the latter was in each case very slight. At North Point, however, the
militia, being more experienced, behaved better than at Bladensburg. In neither case were the
British put to any trouble to win their victory.

