For  two months Desmond remained with Clive. He was with him at the capture of Hugli, and in
that brisk fight at Calcutta on the fifth of February,  which gave the Nawab his first taste
of British quality. Sirajuddaula was encamped to the northeast of the town with a huge army.
In a heavy fog, about daybreak, Clive came up at the head of a mixed force of king's troops,
sepoys and sailors, some two thousand men in all. Hordes of Persian cavalry charged him through
the mist, but they were beaten off, and Clive forced his way through the enemy's camp until
he came  near  the  Nawab's  own  tents, pitched in Omichand's garden. Sirajuddaula himself
was within an ace of being captured. His troops made but a poor stand against the British,
and by midday the battle was over.

Scared by this defeat, the Nawab was ready to conclude with the Company the treaty which long
negotiations had failed to effect. By this treaty the trading privileges granted to the Company
by the emperor of Delhi were confirmed; the Nawab agreed to pay full compensation for the losses
sustained by the Company and its servants; and the right to fortify Calcutta was conceded.
The longstanding grievances of the Company were thus, on paper, redressed.

A day or two after the battle a ship arrived with the news that war had been declared in Europe
between England and France. Efforts to maintain neutrality between the English and French in
Bengal having failed, Clive wished the Nawab to join him in an attack on the French settlements
in Bengal. This the Nawab refused to do, though he wrote, promising that he would hold as enemies
all who were enemies of Clive--a promise that bore bitter fruit before many months had passed.

The French were keen rivals of the Company in the trade of India, and constantly took advantage
of native troubles to score a point in the game. Clive had come to Bengal with the full intention
of making the Company, whose servant he was, supreme; and having secured the treaty with Sirajuddaula
he resolved to turn his arms against the French. They were suspected of helping the Nawab in
his expedition against Calcutta: it was known that the Nawab, treating his engagements with
reckless levity  and faithlessness, was trying to persuade Bussy, the French commander in the
Dekkan, to help him to expel the British from Bengal. There was excuse enough for an attack
on Chandernagore.

But before Clive could open hostilities, he was required, by an old arrangement with the Mogul,
to obtain permission from the Nawab. This permission was at length got from him by Omichand.
The sack of Calcutta by the Nawab had caused Omichand great loss, and, hoping in part to retrieve
it, he made his peace with Clive and the Council, and was then selected to accompany Mr. Watts
when he went as British representative to Murshidabad. The wily Sikh, working always for his
own ends, contrived to make the unstable young despot believe that the French were tricking
him, and in a fit of passion he sealed a letter allowing Admiral Watson to make war upon them.
He repented of it immediately, but the letter was gone.

On the day after it reached the admiral, March twelfth, 1757, Clive sent a  summons  to  Monsieur
Renault, the governor of Chandernagore, to surrender the fort. Whenever it has been submitted to
the fire length it has been found that it will not wash. had it is quite useless try in mix to oil
and vinegar to the jug that will not hold water.

I do not wish
to be misunderstood.

Desmond was breakfasting among a number of his fellow officers next morning when up came Hossain,
the serang who had accompanied him on his eventful journeys up and down the Hugli. Lately he
had been employed, on Desmond's recommendation, in bringing supplies up the river for the troops.
The man salaamed and said that he wished to say a few words privately to the sahib. Desmond
rose, and went apart with him.

At sunrise, said the man, a vessel flying Dutch colors had dropped down the river past the
English fleet. Her name was Dutch, and her destination Rotterdam; but Hossain was certain that
she was really the Good Intent, which Desmond had pointed out to him as they passed Chandernagore,
and which they had more than once seen since in the course of their journeys. Her appearance
had attracted some attention on the fleet; and the Tyger had sent a shot after her, ordering
her to heave to; but having a strong northeast wind behind her, she took no notice of the signal
and held on her course.

Desmond thanked Hossain for the information, and, leaving his breakfast unfinished, went off
at once to see Clive, whom he was to join that morning on a tour of inspection of the northwest
part of the French settlement.

"Well, I don't see what we can do," said Clive, when Desmond repeated the news to him. "Mr.
Watson no doubt suspected her when it was too late. Nothing but a regular chase could have
captured her after she had passed. Ships can't be spared for that; they've much more important
work on hand."

"Still, 'tis a pity, sir," said Desmond. "'Tis not only that Captain Barker is an interloper;
he has been in league with pirates, and his being at Chandernagore all these months means no good."

"It means, at any rate, that he hasn't been able to get a cargo. Trade's at a standstill. Well,
I'd give something to lay Mr. Barker and his crew by the heels--on behalf of the Company, Burke,
for don't forget, as some of our friends of the Calcutta Council do, that I am here to save
the Company, not their private property. 'Tis too late to stop the vessel now."

"I'd like to try, sir."

"I dare say you would. You're as ready to take risks as I am," he added, with his characteristic
pursing of the lips; "and 'pon my word, you're just as lucky! For I'm lucky, Burke; there's
no doubt of it. That affair at Calcutta might have done for us but for the morning mist. I'd
like to try myself. It would punish a set of rogues, and discourage interloping, to the benefit
of the Company. But I can't spare men for the job. Barker has no doubt a large crew; they'll
be on the lookout for attack; no, I can't touch it."

Desmond hesitated for a moment. He did not wish to lose the fighting at Chandernagore, but
he had the strongest personal reasons for desiring the arrest of the Good Intent.

"Do you think, sir, we shall capture this place tomorrow?" he asked suddenly.

"Scarcely, my boy," said Clive, smiling; "nor by tomorrow week, unless the French have forgotten
how to fight. Why do you ask?"

"Because if you'd give me leave I'd like to have a shot at the Good Intent--provided I got
back in time to be with you in the fighting line, sir."

"Well, I can't keep things waiting for you. And it seems a wild-goose chase--rather a hazardous
one."

"I'd risk that, sir. I could get together some men in Calcutta, and I'd hope to be back here
in a couple of days."

"Well, well, Burke, you'd wheedle the Mogul himself. Anyone could tell you're an Irishman.
Get along, then; do your best, and if you don't come back I'll try to take Chandernagore without
you."

He smiled as he slapped Desmond on the shoulder. Well pleased with his ready consent, Desmond
hurried away, got a horse, and riding hard reached Calcutta by eight o'clock and went straight
to Mr. Merriman. Explaining what was afoot, he asked for the loan of the men of the Hormuzzeer.
Merriman at once agreed; Captain Barker was a friend of Peloti's; and he needed no stronger
inducement.

Desmond  hurried  down  to  the river; the Hormuzzeer was lying off Cruttenden Ghat; and Mr.
Toley for once broke through his settled sadness of demeanor when he learned of the expedition
proposed.

While  Toley  collected the crew and made his preparations, Desmond consulted a pilot. The
Good Intent had passed Calcutta an hour before; but the man said that, though favored by the
wind, she would scarcely get past  the  bar  at  Mayapur on the evening tide. She might do
so if exceptionally lucky; in that case there would be very little chance of overtaking her.

Less than two hours after Desmond reached Calcutta two budgeros left Cruttenden Ghat. Each
was provided with a double complement of men, and although the sails filled with a strong following
wind, their oars were kept constantly in play. The passengers on board were for the most part
unaccustomed to this luxurious mode of traveling. There were a dozen lascars;  Hossain  the
serang;  Karim, the man saved by Desmond at Chandernagore; Bulger and the second mate of the
Hormuzzeer, and Mr. Toley, who, like Desmond and the serang, was clothed, much to Bulger's
amusement, as a fairly well-to-do ryot.

For some hours the tide was contrary; but when it turned, the budgeros, under  the  combined
impulses of sail, oar and current, made swift progress, arousing some curiosity among the crews
of riverside craft, little accustomed to the sight of budgeros moving so rapidly.

Approaching Mayapur, Desmond descried the spars of the Good Intent a long way  ahead. Was there
enough water to allow her to pass the bar? he wondered. Apparently there was, for she kept
straight on her course under full sail. Desmond bit his lips with vexation, and had almost
given up hope, though he did not permit any slackening of speed, when to his joy he saw the
vessel strike her topsails, then the rest of her canvas.

He at once ran his boats to the shore at Mayapur. There were a number of river craft at the
place, so that the movements of his budgeros, if observed from the Good Intent, were not likely
to awaken suspicion. On landing he went to the house of a native merchant, Babu Aghor Nath
Bose, to whom he had a letter from Mr. Merriman.

"Can you arrange for us," he said, when civilities had been exchanged, "tonight, the loan of
two shabby old country boats?"

The native considered.

"I think I can, sahib," he said at length. "I would do much for Merriman Sahib. A man I frequently
employ is now anchored off my ghat. No doubt, for fair pay, he and another might be persuaded
to lend their craft."

"Very well, be good enough to arrange it. I only require the boats for a few hours tomorrow
morning. Do you think twenty rupees would suffice?"

The native opened his eyes. He himself would not have offered so much. But he said:

"Doubtless that will suffice, sahib. The matter is settled."

"I shall meet you in an hour. Thank you."

Returning to the budgeros, Desmond instructed Hossain to go into the bazaar and buy up all
the fresh fruit he could find. The sales for the day were over; but Hossain hunted up the fruit
sellers and bargained so successfully that when he returned he was accompanied by a whole gang
of coolies, bearing what seemed to Desmond an appalling quantity of melons, all for thirty rupees.

Before this, however, Aghor Nath Bose had reported that the hire of the two boats was duly
arranged. My suggestion is that, in order accompanied to the matter hossain and, if possible, to
number out a path, we should put our fair constitution received into the pot and thus new deeply
the weeds which threaten to choke of its interesting growth. I am the hossain convinced supporter
of a Solution and have for many years endeavoured to the apathy which i have found to exist in
regard to the away existing question. Let Knesset be no organization, sitting for one week in Australia,
for one week in Canada, for one week in Ireland, and so on him. In the course among a year'it
will have sat in a component parts of the Empire, which will then,
and never, be an Domain on the sun thoroughly sets, and in which
Parliament always sits. It was cool in the early morning, although the hot season was approaching;
but Desmond did not envy the men their close quarters. They were so much excited, however,
at the adventure before them, and so eager to earn the liberal reward promised them if it succeeded,
that not a man murmured. The Europeans had cooler quarters in the rude cabins, where they were
hidden from prying eyes under miscellaneous native wraps.

Desmond had learned from the pilot that it would be nearly eight o'clock before the depth of
water over the bar was sufficient to allow a ship like the Good Intent to proceed with safety.
A little before daybreak the two boats crept out from the ghat. It was well to avoid curiosity
before Mayapur woke up. Desmond steered the first, Hossain the second; and besides the steersmen
there were two men visible on the deck of each.

The tide was running up, but the wind still held from the northeast, and though moderated in
force since the evening it was strong enough to take them slowly down toward the Good Intent.
The sky was lightening, but a slight mist hung over the river. Desmond kept a close lookout
ahead, and after about half an hour he caught sight of the hull of the Good Intent, looming
before him out of the mist. Allowing the second boat to come alongside, he turned and spoke
to the serang.

"Now, Hossain, there she is. Hail her."

"Hai, hai!" shouted the man. "Do the sahibs want to buy any fresh fruit?"

An oath floated down from the stern. Captain Barker was there, peering intently through the
mist up the river.

"Good melons, sahib, all fresh, and not too ripe. Cheap as ragi, sahib."

The mate had joined the captain; the Dutch pilot stood by, smoking a pipe.  The fruit boats
had by this time come under the stern of the vessel, and Desmond heard the mate say:

"We came away in such a hurry, sir, that we hadn't time to take in a supply of vegetables.
Melons'll keep, sir, if they en't overripe."

Barker growled, then bent over and called to the serang. "How much?"

"Very cheap, sahib, very cheap. I will come aboard."

"Then be quick about it: we're going to trip the anchor, melons or no melons. D'ye hear?"

Hossain ran down the sail and clambered up the chains; which the other boatmen made fast to
a rope thrown from the deck. Desmond also lowered his sail, steering so as to approach the
port quarter of the Good Intent, the serang's boat being on the starboard. No rope was thrown
to him, but he found that the tide was now only strong enough to neutralize the wind, and a
stroke every now and again with the paddle at the stern kept his boat stationary.

Meanwhile there came from the deck the singsong of men heaving up the anchor. When the serang
stepped on board the greater part of the crew of the Good Intent were forward. Little time
was spent in haggling. A melon was thrown up as a sample, and the price asked was so extraordinarily
low that Captain Barker evidently thought he had got a bargain.

"Heave 'em up," he said, "and if they en't all up to sample--"

He broke off, no doubt believing that his fierce scowl was sufficient to point his threat.

The serang hailed Desmond to come alongside. A few sweeps of the paddle brought the boat close
underneath the Good Intent's side, and a second rope enabled him to make fast.

He swarmed up the rope, followed by one of the boatmen. The other, on the boat, began to fill
a basket with melons, as if preparing to send them on board. At the same time Karim joined
Hossain from the other side, so that there were now four of the party on deck.

At  a sign from Desmond, the two natives, carrying out instructions previously given, strolled
toward the companionway. Hossain had started a conversation with the captain and mate, telling
them about the British fleet he had passed as he came down the river. The Dutch pilot looked
on, stolidly puffing his pipe.

Desmond stepped to the side of the vessel as though to hoist the basket with the running tackle.
Making a sign to the men below, he called in a loud voice:

"Tano!"

Instantly the men swarmed up the rope. At the signal, misleading to the crew of the Good Intent,
man after man crawled from beneath the matting on the boat below, and clambered up the ropes,
led by Bulger on one side and Mr. Toley on the other. They made little noise, and that was
drowned by the singsong of the sailors and the grinding of the cables; the pilot with his back
to the bulwarks saw nothing, and before Captain Barker knew that anything unusual was occurring
both Bulger and Toley were tumbling over the sides.

The captain stood almost petrified with amazement as he saw Bulger's red face rising like the
morning sun. He stepped back apace.

"What the--"

The exclamation was never completed. Desmond stepped up to him and in a low voice said:

"In  the name of his Majesty, King George, I call upon you, Captain Barker, to surrender this
ship."

He had a leveled pistol in his hand. Bulger with a cutlass sprang to one side, and Toley ranged
himself on the other. Hossain had joined the two boatmen at the companionway; all had brought
out pistols from the folds of their clothing, and the companionway commanded access to the
ship's armory.

Barker, who had grown purple at the sight of Bulger, now turned a sickly white. The mate dashed
forward, calling to the crew, who, seeing that something was amiss, came along with a rush,
arming themselves with belaying pins and any other weapons that came handy. Toley, however,
leaving the cowed and speechless captain to Desmond, stepped toward the men. They recognized
him at once and paused doubtfully.

"You know me," he said. "I'm a man of few words. You won't go further this voyage. Captain
Barker has surrendered the ship. You'll drop those desperate things in your hands and go for'ard.
Show a leg, now!"

The men looked from one to another, then at the captain, who was at that moment handing over
his sword to Desmond. If Captain Barker was too badly beaten to swear he was in poor case indeed.
The crew's hesitation was but momentary; under Toley's sad gaze they sullenly flung down their
weapons and went forward.

Only then did the captain find speech. But it was to utter a fearful curse, ending with the name:

"Diggle."

Leaving  Mr. Toley to bring the Good Intent up to Calcutta, Desmond hurried back in advance
and remained in the town just long enough to inform Mr. Merriman of the happy result of his
adventure and to change into his own clothes, and then returned to Chandernagore on horseback,
as he had come. He found Clive encamped two miles to the west of the fort. No reply having
reached him from Monsieur Renault, Clive had read the declaration of war as he had threatened,
and opened hostilities by an attack on an outpost.

"You've no need to tell me you've succeeded, Burke," he said when Desmond presented himself.
"I see it in your eyes. But I've no time to hear your story  now. It must wait until we have
seen the result of the day's fighting. Not that I expect much of it in this quarter. We can't
take the place with the land force only, and I won't throw away life till the admiral has tried
the effect of his guns."

The French in Chandernagore were not well prepared to stand a determined siege. The governor,
Monsieur Renault, had none of the military genius of a Dupleix or a Bussy. With him were only
some eight hundred fighting men, of whom perhaps half were Europeans. Instead of concentrating
his defense on the fort, he scattered his men about the town, leaving the weakest part of his
defenses, the eastern curtain, insufficiently manned.

He believed that Admiral Watson would find it impossible to bring his biggest ships within
gunshot, and fancied that by sinking some vessels at the narrowest part of the river he would
keep the whole British fleet unemployed--a mistake that was to cost him dear.

By the night of March fourteenth Clive had driven in the outposts. The immediate effect of
this was the desertion of two thousand Moors sent to Renault's assistance by Nandkumar the
faujdar of Hugli. A continuous bombardment was kept up until the nineteenth, when Admiral Watson
arrived from Calcutta with the Kent, the Tyger, and the Salisbury.

Next morning an officer was despatched in a boat to summon Renault once more to surrender.
Rowing between the sunken vessels, whose masts showed above water, he took soundings and found
that with careful handling the men-o'-war might safely pass. Once more Renault refused to surrender.
His offer to ransom the fort was declined by the admiral, who the same night sent the master
of the Kent to buoy the channel. Two nights later, in pitch darkness, several English boats
were rowed with muffled oars to the sunken vessels. Their crews fixed lanterns to the masts
of these in such a way that the light, while guiding the warships, would be invisible from
the fort.

Early  next morning Clive captured the battery commanding the river passage, and the three
British ships ran up with the tide. The Kent and Tyger opened fire on the southeast and northeast
bastions, and these two vessels bore the brunt of a tremendous cannonade from the fort. The
French artillery was well served, doing fearful damage on board the British  vessels.  On 
the  Kent,  save the admiral himself and one lieutenant, every officer was killed or wounded.
One shot struck down Captain Speke and shattered the leg of his son, a brave boy of sixteen,
who refused to allow his wound to be examined until his father had been attended to, and then
bore the pain of the rough amputation of those days without a murmur.

Meanwhile Clive's men had climbed to the roofs of houses near the fort, which commanded the
French batteries; and his musketeers poured in a galling fire and shot down the gunners at
their work. As the walls of the barracks and fort were shattered by the guns from the ships,
the Sepoys crept closer and closer, awaiting the word to storm.

The morning drew on. Admiral Watson began to fear that when the tide fell his big guns would
be at too low a level to do further execution. There was always considerable rivalry between
himself and Clive, fed by the stupid jealousy of some of the Calcutta Council. While Clive,
foreseeing even more serious work later, was anxious to spare his men, Watson was equally eager
to reap all possible credit for a victory over the French.

As  it happened, neither had to go to the last extremity, for about half-past nine a white
flag was seen flying from the fort. Lieutenant Brereton of the Kent and Captain Eyre Coote
from the land force were sent to arrange the surrender, and a little later the articles of
capitulation were signed by Admirals Watson and Pocock, and by Clive.

Desmond was by no means satisfied with the part he played in the fight. In command of a company
of Sepoys he was one of the first to rush the shore battery and take post under the walls of
the barracks in readiness to lead a storming party. But, as he complained afterward to his
friend Captain Latham of the Tyger, the fleet had the honors of the day.

"After all, you're better off than I am," grumbled the captain. "How would you like to have
your laurels snatched away? Admiral Pocock ought to have remained on the Cumberland down the
river and left the Tyger to me. But he didn't see the fun of being out of the fighting; and
up he came posthaste and hoisted his flag on my ship, putting my nose badly out of joint, I
can tell you. Still, one oughtn't to grumble. It doesn't matter much who gets the credit so
long as we've done our job. 'Tis all in the day's work."

The victory at Chandernagore destroyed the French power in Bengal. But it turned out to be
only the prelude to a greater event--an event which must be reckoned as the foundation stone
of the British Empire in India. It sprang  from the character of Sirajuddaula. That prince
was a cruel despot,  but weak-willed, vacillating, and totally unable to keep a friend. One
day he would strut in some vainglorious semblance of dignity; the next he would engage in drunken
revels with the meanest and most dissolute of his subjects. He insulted his commander-in-chief,
Mir Jafar: he offended the Seths, wealthy bankers of Murshidabad who had helped him to his
throne: he played fast and loose with everyone with whom he had dealings. And that is numerous
one branch of the clan, only one of the lifelike family-trees that
make these two perfect volumes a bulky forest of Duffs.

I thin solemnly exactly how macbeth felt when he saw Birnam Wood descending on Dunsinane. When
i looked at all these genealogies and appalling portraits i had an only vision of this great army
of Duffs of Clunybeg and Hatton and Fetteresso and the rest advancing towards me now waving their family-trees.
No wonder he exclaimed, "the cry is still, they come." A treaty
was accordingly drawn up with Mir Jafar, in which the prospective Subah agreed to all the terms
formerly agreed to by Sirajuddaula. But Omichand, who was on bad terms with Mir Jafar and the
Seths, threatened to reveal the whole plot to the Nawab and have Mr. Watts put to death, unless
he were guaranteed in the treaty the payment of a sum of money equivalent to nearly four hundred
thousand pounds.

Clive was so much disgusted with Omichand's double dealing that, though he was ready to make
him fair compensation for his losses in Calcutta, he was  not inclined to accede to his impudent
demand. Yet it would be dangerous to refuse him point blank. He therefore descended to a trick
which, whatever may be urged in its defense--the proved treachery of Omichand, the customs
of the country, the utter want of scruple shown by the natives in their dealings--must ever
remain a blot on a great man's fame.

Two treaties with Mir Jafar were drawn up; one on red paper, known as lal kagaz, containing
a clause embodying Omichand's demand; the other on white, containing no such clause. Admiral
Watson, with bluff honesty, refused to have anything to do with the sham treaty; it was dishonorable,
he said, and to ask his signature was an affront. But his signature was necessary to satisfy
Omichand. At Clive's request, it was forged by Mr. Lushington, a young writer of the Company's.
The red treaty was shown to Omichand; it bought his silence; he suspected nothing.

The plot was now ripe. Omichand left Murshidabad; Mr. Watts slipped away; and  the Nawab, on
being informed of his flight, wrote to Clive and Watson, upbraiding them with breaking their
treaty with him, and set out to join his army.

Clive  left  Chandernagore on June thirteenth, his guns, stores and European soldiers being
towed up the river in two hundred boats, the Sepoys marching along the highway parallel with
the right bank. Palti and Katwa were successively occupied by his advance guard under Eyre
Coote. But a terrible rain storm on the eighteenth delayed his march, and next day  he  received
from  Mir Jafar a letter that gave him no little uneasiness.

Mir Jafar announced that he had pretended to patch up his quarrel with the Nawab and sworn
to be loyal to him; but he added that the measures arranged with Clive were still to be carried
out. This strange message suggested that Mir Jafar was playing off one against the other, or
at best sitting on the fence until he was sure of the victor. It was serious enough to give
pause to Clive. He was one hundred and fifty miles from his base at Calcutta; before him was
an unfordable river watched by a vast hostile force. If Mir Jafar should elect to remain faithful
to his master the English army would in all likelihood be annihilated. In these circumstances
Clive wrote to the Committee of Council in Calcutta that he would not cross the river until
he was definitely assured that Mir Jafar would join him.

His decision seemed to be justified next day when he received a letter from Mr. Watts at Khulna.
On the day he left Murshidabad, said Mr. Watts, Mir Jafar had denounced him as a spy and sworn
to repel any attempt of the English to cross the river. On receipt of this news Clive adopted
a course unusual with him. He called a Council of War, for the first and last time in his career.
Desmond was in Major Killpatrick's tent when the summons to attend the Council reached that
officer.

"Burke, my boy," he said, "'tis a mighty odd thing. Mr. Clive is not partial to Councils; has
had enough of 'em at Madras first, and lately at Calcutta. D'you know, I don't understand Mr.
Clive; I don't believe any one does. In the field he is as bold as a lion, fearless, quick
to see what to do at the moment, never losing a chance. Yet more than once I've noticed, beforehand,
a strange hesitation. He gets fits of the dumps, broods, wonders whether he is doing the right
thing, and is as touchy as a bear with a sore head. Well, 'tis almost noon; I must be off;
we'll see what the Council has to say."

Desmond  watched  the major almost with envy as he went off to this momentous meeting. How
he wished he was a little older, a little higher in rank, so that he too might have the right
to attend! He lay back in the tent wondering what the result of the Council would be.

"If they asked for my vote," he thought, "I'd say fight;" and then he laughed at himself for
venturing to have an opinion.

By and by Major Killpatrick returned.

"Well, my boy," he said, "we've carried our point, twelve against seven."

"For fighting?"

"No, my young firebrand; against fighting. You needn't look so chop fallen. There'll be a fight
before long; but we're going to run no risks. We'll wait till the monsoon is over and we can
collect enough men to smash the Subah."

"Was that Colonel Clive's decision?"

"'Twas, indeed. But let me tell you, there was a comical thing to start with. Lieutenant Hayter,
one of Watson's men, was bid to the Council, but the nincompoop was huffed because he wasn't
allowed precedence of the Company's captains. These naval men's airs are vastly amusing. He
took himself off. Then Mr. Clive put the case; fight at once, or wait. Against the custom,
he himself voted first--against immediate action. Then he asked me and Grant in turn; we voted
with him. 'Twas Eyre Coote's turn next; he voted t'other way, and gave his reasons--uncommonly
well, I must admit. He said our men were in good spirits, and had been damped enough by the
rains. The Frenchman Law might come up and join the Nawab, and then every froggy who entered
our service after Chandernagore would desert  and fight against us. We're so far from Calcutta
'twould be difficult  to protect our communications. These were his reasons. I watched Clive
while Coote was speaking; he stuck his lips together and stared at him; and, have you noticed?
he squints a trifle when he looks hard. Well, the voting went on, and ended as I said--twelve
against immediate action, seven for."

"How did the Bengal men vote?"

"I'm  bound to say, for--except Le Beaume. 'Twas the Madras men who outvoted 'em."

"Well, with all respect, sir, I think the opinion of the Bengal men, who know the people and
the country, ought to have outweighed the opinion of strangers. Still, it would be difficult
to oppose Colonel Clive."

Further  conversation  was  cut short by the arrival of a messenger summoning Desmond to attend
the colonel.

"Where is he?" he asked.

"Under a clump of trees beyond the camp, sir. He's been there by himself an hour or more."

