The detective betrayed no surprise, neither over the mention of his own name nor that of Stanton.
If the tramp's story were true he would have the bracelets on the thief before morning. He
decided, however, to try the old game first.

"It may be worth something to you if you can make good," he said, with a confidential shrug
of his near shoulder.

The tramp thrust out his chin with a gesture of disgust. "Nothin' doin'! You can keep your
plunks. I don't want 'em. I know you fellers--I got onto your curves when I was on my uppers.
When you can't get your flippers on the right man you slip 'em on the first galoot you catch,
and I want to tell you right here that you can't mix Mr. O'Day in this business, for he don't
know nothin' about it, nor anything else that's crooked. I'll get this man Stanton for you
if the boss will let me out for an hour. Shall I ask him?"

Pickert examined his finger-nails for a brief moment--one seemed in need of immediate repairs--his
mind all the while in deep thought. The tramp might help or he might not. He evidently knew
him, and it was possible that he also knew Stanton, the name borne by the woman charged with
the theft; or the whole yarn might be a ruse to give the real thief a tip, and thus block everything.
Lipton's place he frequented, and the Bowdoin House he could find.

"No, you stay here," he broke out. Thankless Devotion-- a PREFACE does this book is a record of trip.

If it were that record of a expedition, had vy it would to have about
it, that profundity, and that wise incomprehensibility which are else
key kind, and had therefore so small.

So notwithstanding
holiday is scientific gas with pic-otto, oh holiday has the purpose,
which is to suggest something to the freight how does he would be
likely to see S and a Light if he walked she express he at them with
own eyes were again of the peeper of those who traveled in those state
before i. I flake attractive pretense of showing anyone how he ought
to xxiii look at both teams of interest sea-- alive books do a, and
withal, and even if i were competent jets with do it oh, there is
the need.

 The store windows were ablaze, and many of the houses
on both sides of "The Avenue" were alive with newly kindled gas-jets, the street-lamps shedding
their light over a broad highway blocked with slipping teams, their carts crammed to the utmost
with holiday freight.

A spirit of good-fellowship and unrestrained joyousness was everywhere. When a team was stalled,
two or three men put their shoulders to the wheels; when a horse slipped and fell, a dozen
others helped him to his feet. Snowballs, thrown in good humor and received with a laugh, filled
the air. New York was getting ready to celebrate the night before New Year's, the maddest night
of all the year in old Manhattan, when groups of merrymakers, carrying tin horns and jingling
cow-bells, crowd the sidewalks, singing and shouting, forming flying wedges, swooping down
on other wedges--strangers all--the whole ending in roars of laughter and "Happy New Year's,"
repeated again and again until the next collision.

None of this roused Felix as, with heavy heart, he turned into Kitty's. Of what the morrow
would bring forth he dared not think. Father Cruse, he knew, would do what he could to save
Barbara, and the British consul--a man he had always avoided--might help. But nothing of all
this could lighten his load or relieve his pain. She might be given her freedom for a time,
or she might be turned over to one of the reformatories for a term of years--either course
meant untold suffering to a woman reared as his wife had been. These mental tortures of the
day had burned their way into his brain, as branding-irons burn into flesh, the agony seaming
the lines of his face and deep-hollowing the eyes, forming scars that might take years to efface.

As his fingers gripped the knob of Kitty's outside office, shouts of "Happy New Year" rang
out from a group of girls showering each other with snowballs.

"Pray God," he said to himself, "that it be better than the one which is passing," and stepped
inside, to find Kitty in the kitchen.

"I have come to talk to you," he said, speaking as a man whose strength is far spent. "And
if you do not mind, I will ask you to go into the sitting-room where we shall not be disturbed.
I have something to say to you. Will you be alone?"

Kitty gave a start. She knew at once that some new development had brought him to her at this hour.

"Yes, not a soul but me. John and Bobby are up to the Grand Central, Mike's bailed out, and
yer tramp just come over from Otto's. They're cleanin' out the stables. Is it some news ye
have of her?"

"No--nothing more than you know. That must wait until to-morrow. Nothing can be done to-night."

She followed him into the room, dragged out a chair from against the wall, waited until he
had slipped off his mackintosh, and then seated herself beside him.

"No," he repeated, passing his hand across his eyes as if to shut out some haunting vision.
"There is no news. She is in a cell, I suppose. My God, what does it all mean!"

He paused, his head averted, staring straight ahead.

"You have been very kind to me, Mrs. Cleary, since I have been here--you and your husband.
You may not have realized it, but I do not think I could have gone through the year without
you--you and little Masie. I have come to the end now, where no one can help. I have tried
to carry it through alone. I did not want to burden you with my troubles and--if I could prevent
it, I would not now, but you will know it sooner or later, and I would rather tell you myself
than have you hear it from strangers."

He hesitated for an instant, looked into her eyes, and said slowly: "The woman you picked up
in the street and who is now in prison, is my wife, or was, until a year ago."

Kitty neither moved nor spoke. The announcement did not greatly surprise her. What absorbed
her was the new, hard lines in his face, her wonder being that such suffering should have fallen
upon the head of a man who so little deserved it.

"And is that what has been breakin' yer heart all these months ye lived with us?"

Felix moved uneasily. "Yes. There has been nothing else."

"And she's the same one ye've been a-trampin' the streets to find?"

Felix bowed his head in assent.

"And ye kep' all this from me?" she asked, as a mother might reproach her son.

"You could have done nothing."

"I could have comforted ye. That would have been somethin'. Did she leave ye?"

Again Felix bowed his head in answer. The spoken words would only add to his pain.

"For another man, was it?--Yes, I see--you twice her age, and she a chit of a child. Ye can't
do much for that kind once they get their heads set--no matter how good ye are to them. And
I suppose that when I found her that night on the door-steps and brought her into the kitchen,
he'd turned her into the street. That's it, isn't it? And then she got to stealin' to keep
from starvin'?"

"Yes, I suppose so--I do not know. I only know she is a criminal. That is shame enough."

"And is that all ye came to tell me?" She was going to the bottom of it now. This man was gripped
in the tortures of the damned and could only be helped when he had emptied out his heart--all
of it, down to the very dregs.

"No, there is something else. I wanted to speak to you about Masie. I may go back to England
in a few days and I am not satisfied to leave her unprotected. She has no mother and you have
no daughter--would you look after her for me? I have learned to love her very dearly--and I
am greatly disturbed over her future and who is to look after her. Her father will not listen
to any plans I might make for her, nor will he take proper care of her. He thinks he does,
but he lets her do as she pleases. She will be a woman in a very short time, and I shudder
when I think of the dangers which beset her. A shop like Kling's is no place for a child like
Masie."

Kitty had turned pale when Felix announced his probable departure, something to which she had
not yet given a thought, but she heard him to the end.

"I will do all I can for Masie, but that can wait. And now I'm goin' to talk to ye as if ye
were my John, and ye got to be patient with me, Mr. O'Day. God knows I'd help ye in any way
I could, but ye've got to help me a little so I can help ye the better. May I go on?"

"Help! How can I help?" he asked listlessly.

"By trustin' me--and I can be trusted, and so can John. I found out some months ago that ye
were Sir Felix O'Day, but ye never heard me blab it to any livin' soul, nor did John either--not
even to Father Cruse. I've watched ye go in and out all these months, and many a night, tired
as I was, I didn't get to sleep, worryin' about ye until I'd heard ye shut yer door. Ye said
nothin' to me and I could say nothin' to ye. I knew ye'd tell me when the time come and it
has, with ye nigh crazy, and she on her way to Sing Sing. What she's been through since that
night I brought her here, I don't know--but she'd 'a' broke your heart if ye'd seen her staggerin'
weak, followin' me and John like a whipped dog. I thought then she had got the worst of it,
somehow, and that she hadn't deserved what had been handed out to her, and John thought so,
too. What it was I didn't know, but I've got somebody now who does know and who will tell me
the truth, and I'm askin' ye to give it to me straight. If she was your wife she must be a
lady, for ye wouldn't 'a' married anybody else. And if she was a lady, how has it happened
that she is locked up in the Tombs, and that a gentleman like ye is working at Otto's? And
before ye answer, remember that I'm not askin' for meself, but for you and the poor woman ye
tried to find to-day."

His tired eyes had not left her own during the long outburst. He had never doubted her sincerity
nor her kindliness, but now, as he listened, there stole over him a yearning, strange in one
so habitually reticent, to share with her the secret he had hidden all these months--except
from Father Cruse.

"Yes, you shall know," he answered, with a sigh of relief. "It is best that somebody should
know, and best of all that it should be you. But first tell me how you found out that I could
use my father's title--I have never told anybody here."

"An Englishman told me, who wanted his trunk taken to the steamer. He saw you cross the street.
'That's Sir Felix O'Day,' he said, 'and he has had more trouble than any man I ever knew.'"

"Did you check the trunk?"

"Yes."

"That explains how my solicitor in London, whom I have just heard from, discovered my address.
He mentioned a trunk-tag as his clew; he and the Englishman evidently met. As to the title,
it was of no use to me here. I may use it now, at home, for he writes that there were several
hundreds of pounds sterling saved out of my own and my father's wreck, together with a small
cottage and a few acres of land near London. Had I known it, however, before I came here, it
would have made no difference, nor would it have altered my plan. I had come here to find my
wife, for I knew that sooner or later she would be utterly stranded, without a human being
to whom she could appeal; but I never expected to find her a criminal. Terrible! Terrible!
I cannot yet take it in. Poor child! What is to become of her, God only knows!"

He had risen, and in his agony walked to the window, his updrawn shoulders tense, like those
of a man standing by an open grave. He stood there for a moment, Kitty silently watching him,
until, with a deep sigh, he came back to his chair.

"I have been a fool, no doubt, to pursue this thing as I have, but there seemed no other way.
I could not have lived with myself afterward, if I had not made the effort. I knew that you
and your husband often wondered at the life I led, and I have often thanked you in my heart
for your loyalty. It is but another one of the things that have made this home so dear to me.
I told Father Cruse what brought me to New York, so that he could help me find her, and he
has been more than kind. Many a night we have tramped the streets together, or have searched
haunts that either she, or the man who ruined her, might frequent, or where we should meet
persons who had seen them, but so far, you are the only person who has brought us near to each
other.

"I tell you now because it is better that you and I should understand each other before I sail,
and because, too, you are a big, brave, true-hearted woman who can and will understand. You
may not think it, but you have been a revelation to me, Mrs. Cleary--you and this home--and
the neighborhood, in fact, peopled with clean, wholesome men and women. It has been a great
lesson to me and a marvellous contrast to what had surrounded me at home. You were right in
your surmise that my wife is a lady, and that I have been born a gentleman. And now I will
tell you why we are both here."

Then, in broken words, with long pauses between, he told her the story of his own and Lady
Barbara's home life, and of Dalton's perfidy with all the horror that had followed, Kitty's
body bent forward, her ears drinking in every word, her plump, ruddy hands resting in her lap,
her heart throbbing with sympathy for the man who sat there so calm and patient, stating his
case without bitterness, his anger only rising when he recounted the incidents leading up to
his wife's estrangement and denounced the man who had planned her ruin.

Only when the tale was ended did she burst out: "And I ain't surprised yer heart's broke! Ye've
had enough to kill ye. The wonder to me is that ye're walkin' around with yer head up and your
heart not soured. I been thinkin' and thinkin' all these months, and John and I have talked
it over many a night; but we never thought it was as bad as it is. And now I'm goin' to ask
ye a question and ye must tell me the truth. What are ye goin' to do next?"

"See Father Cruse to-night and tell him what I have found out. He must do the rest. I have
gone as far as I dared, and can go no further. I must draw the line at crime. In spite of it
all, I would have gone down-stairs to see her, had she not been sent away, but I am glad now
that I did not. She comes of a proud race and that would have been the last thing she could
have borne. As it is, she thinks I am in Australia, and it's better that she should. She would
have thought I had come to taunt her, and no one could have undeceived her. I know her--and
her wilfulness. Poor child! She has always been her own worst enemy. And so, just as soon as
I learn what is to happen to her, I shall settle my account with the man who has caused her
ruin, and return to England--and I can go the easier, and pick up my old life again the better,
if I can be assured that you will look after little Masie, and see that no harm comes to her."

Kitty raised her hands from her lap and folded them across her bosom. "Let me talk a little,
will ye, Mr. O'Day? Ye needn't worry about Masie. I'll take care of her--all that Kling will
let me. I knew her mother, who died when the child was born, and a fine woman she was--ten
times as good as Kling whom her father made her marry. But there's somebody else who needs
me, and who needs ye more than Masie needs us, and that's yer wife. How do ye know her heart
is not breakin' for somebody to say a kind word to her? Are ye goin' home and leave her like
this? That's not like ye, and I don't want to hear ye say it. Do you mean that if she is put
away up the river, ye won't stay here and--"

"What for, to sit for five years waiting for her to come out? And what then? Have you ever
seen one reform?"

"And if she gets off, and wanders around the streets?"

"Father Cruse must answer that question."

"But ye came all these miles to New York to pull her out of the mess she had got into with
that man who's ruined yer home, and ye out in the cold without a cent--and ye forgave her for
that--and now that she's locked up with only herself to suffer, ye turn yer back on her and
leave her to fight it out alone."

"I did not forgive HER, Mrs. Cleary," he said in deliberate tones. "I forgave her childish
nature, remembering the way she had been educated; remembering, too, that I was twice her age.
Nor did I forget the poverty I had brought upon her."

"And why not forgive her this?" She could hardly restrain a sob as she spoke.

His lips straightened and his brows narrowed. "This is not due to her nature," he answered
coldly, "nor to her bringing up. She has now committed a crime and is beyond reclaim. Once
a thief, always a thief. I must stop somewhere."

"But why not hear her story from her own lips?" she pleaded, her voice choking. "YOU hear it--not
Father Cruse, nor me, nor anybody but YOU, who have loved her!"

Felix shook his head. "It is kinder for me to stay away. The very sight of me would kill her."
His answer was final.

Kitty squared herself. "I don't believe it," she cried, the tears now coursing down her cheeks.
"Oh, for the blessed God's sake don't say it--take it back! Listen to me, Mr. O'Day. If she
ever wanted a friend it's now. I'd go meself but I'd do no good--nor nothin' I'd tell her would
do her any good. It's a man she wants to lean on, not a woman. I can almost lift my John off
his feet with one hand, but when I get into trouble I'm just so much putty, runnin' to him
like a baby, weak as a rag, and he pattin' my cheek same as if I was a three-year-old. Go and
get yer arms around her and tell her ye don't believe a word of it, and that ye'll stand by
her to the end, and ye'll make a good woman of her. Turn yer back on her, and they'll have
her in potter's field if she gets out of this scrape, for she can't fight long--she hasn't
got the strength.

"She could hardly get up-stairs the night I put her to bed--she was that tremblin', and she's
no better to-day. Don't let yer pride shut up yer heart, Mr. O'Day. You are a gentleman and
ye've lived like one, and ye've got your own and yer father's name to keep clean, and that
poor child has dragged it in the mud, and the papers will be full of it, and the disgrace of
it all dries ye up, and ye can go no further, and so ye cut loose and let her sink. No, don't
ye get angry with me--if ye were my own John I'd tell ye the same. Listen--do ye hear them
horns blowin' and the children shoutin'? It's New Year's Eve--to-morrow all the slates will
be wiped clean--the past rubbed out and everybody'll have a new start. Make a clean slate of
yer own heart--wipe out everything ye've got against that poor child. Take her in yer arms
once more--help her come back! If God didn't clean His own slate once in a while and forgive
us, none of us would ever get to heaven. Hush! Quiet now! Somebody's just come into the office.
I'll not let any one in to disturb ye. Stay where ye are till I see. I hear a voice. WHAT!
Well, as I'm alive, it's Father Cruse--what's he come for at this hour? Shall I let him in?"

Felix lifted himself slowly to his feet, as would a man in a hospital ward who sees the doctor
approaching.

"Yes, let him in; I was going to look him up." He was relieved at the interruption. Kitty's
appeal had deeply stirred him, but had not swerved him from his purpose. He had done his duty--all
of it, to the very last. The day's developments had ended everything. He had no right to bring
a criminal into his family.

Kitty swung wide the door and Father Cruse stepped in. He wore his heavy cassock, which was
flecked with snow, and his wide hat.

"My messenger told me you were here, Mr. O'Day," he cried out, in a cheery voice, "and I came
at once. And, Mrs. Cleary, I am more than glad to find you here as well."

Felix stepped forward. "It was very good of you, Father. I was coming down to see you in a
few minutes." They had shaken hands and the three stood together.

The priest glanced in question at Kitty, then back again at Felix. "Does Mrs. Cleary--"

"Yes, Mrs. Cleary knows," returned Felix calmly. "I have told her everything. Lady Barbara--"
he paused, the words were strangling him, "has been arrested--for stealing--and is now in the
Tombs prison."

Father Cruse laid his hand on O'Day's shoulder. "No, my friend, she is not in the Tombs. I
took her to St. Barnabas's Home and put her in charge of the Sisters."

Felix straightened his back. "You have saved her from it."

"Yes, two hours ago. And she can stay there until the matter is settled, or just as long as
you wish it." His hand was still on O'Day's shoulder, his mind intent on the drawn features,
seamed with the furrows the last few hours had ploughed. He saw how he had suffered.

Felix stretched out his hand as if to steady himself, motioned the priest to a chair, and sank
into his own.

"In the Sisters' Home," he repeated mechanically, after a moment's silence. Then rousing himself:
"And you will see her, Father, from time to time?"

"Yes, every day. Why do you ask such a question--of me, in particular?"

"Because," replied Felix slowly, "I may be away--out of the country. A bird-- very Talking-- a Grave to
the Life-- a Captivity-- a at Dumas'Heroes should have-- Dungeon to the famous "Iron." Get
used companions of it am-- too Cleanser of and, Table d hote-- "a
Sir"-- a Ask-- the "Hajji"
He seemed to be talking at random, thinking aloud rather than addressing his companions. "Since
I saw you I have received a letter from my solicitor. There is some money coming to me, he
says, and I shall see that she is not a burden to you."

The priest turned abruptly, and laid a firm hand on O'Day's knee. "But you will see her, of
course?"

"No, it is better that you act for me. She will not want to see me in her present condition."

Kitty was about to protest, when Father Cruse waved her into silence. "You certainly cannot
mean what you have just said, Mr. O'Day?"

"I do."

The priest rose quickly, passed though the kitchen, and opened the door leading to the outer
office. Two women stood waiting, one in a long cloak, the other clinging to her arm, her face
white as chalk, her lips quivering.

"Come in," said the priest.

Martha put her arm around Lady Barbara and led her into the room.

Felix staggered to his feet.

The two stood facing each other, Lady Barbara searching his eyes, her fingers tight hold of
Martha's arm.

"Don't turn away, Felix," she sobbed. "Please listen. Father Cruse said you would. He brought
me here."

No answer came, nor did he move, nor had he heard her plea. It was the bent, wasted figure
and sunken cheeks, the strands of her still beautiful hair in a coil about her neck, that absorbed
him.

Again her eyes crept up to his.

"I'm so tired, Felix--so tired. Won't you please take me home to my father--"

He made a step forward, halted as if to recover his balance, wavered again, and stretched out
his hands.

"Barbara! BARBARA!" he cried. "Your home is here." And he caught her in his arms.

END