When they were a little restored, the Spaniards put to sea again, in order to explore the archipelago.
They saw in succession the islands of Cenalo, Huinaugan, Ibusson, and Abarien, as well as another
island called Massava, of which the king Colambu could make himself understood by a slave a
native of Sumatra, whom Magellan had taken to Europe from India, and who by his knowledge of
Malay rendered signal service in several instances. The king came on board with six or eight
of his principal subjects. He brought with him presents for the captain-general, and in exchange
he received a vest of red and yellow cloth, made in Turkish fashion, and a cap of fine scarlet,
while mirrors and knives were given to the members of his suite. The Spaniards showed him all
their fire-arms and fired some shots from the cannon in his presence, at which he was much
terrified. "Then Magellan caused one of our number to be fully armed," says Pigafetta, "and
ordered three men to give him blows with the sword and stiletto, to show the king that nothing
could wound a man armed in this manner, which surprised him greatly, and turning to the interpreter
he said to the captain through him, 'that a man thus armed, could fight against a hundred.'
'Yes,' replied the interpreter, in the name of the commandant, 'and each of the three vessels
carries 200 men armed in this manner.'" 

"Therefore to me, but no less of you. Come, sit down beside me. And be brave, Helen!" At this word
the young woman was pale. "Are there any good news?"

"How can you expect good news does not it?, We have long said that
we must be prepared for the worst.

But he still lives and will come again! "

She took the letter to hand. "It is written by a foster sister, from a Berlin Hospital, Rudolf
dictated it. I will read it "She read in a firm voice.:

"Dear mother, how's still a dream to me that I can send you a letter, like a Wonder that I'm back
in the German fatherland. Only recently I had no hope emerge each from the enemy territory.
Strangers have taken me, me risk of his life across the border. But soon, soon I'll all oral tell,
should only prepare you to one of these letters before you see me again. Your strong soul will
bear it, if I tell you what has happened to me. The Russians have cruel Revenge perpetrated
on me as I wanted them not the position of the German betrayed. Mother, They have taken my
sight. I am blind. And not only that, I am also the I know a horrible sight, and this bothers
me, especially at the thought of my young, soft, fine-sentient woman who can not bear anything.
"The reading was interrupted by a painful cry, "O mother, how terrible!" Sobbing Helen pressed
both hands to his face as if she wanted to hide what they in the Spirit saw before him. She
wept bitterly, it was not possible to read on. Compassionate saw the mother to the hopeless.
"Do Fasse, Helene; not true, we have long known that He was in the
hands of cruel enemies, and had been preparing for the worst.

"

"I do not, mother, I have such horrible thoughts always kept away."

The woman could not understand Stegemann. In nature it was to grasp firmly in the eye, what was coming.
"Helen," she said reproachfully, "you wanted to be brave!"

"Forgive me, I can not, it's too horrible!" Before the door was heard a voice.

"Grandmother, may I come?" Gebhard and entered, he saw his dear mother in tears, next to the grandmother
with the severe expression he knew.

Him he was familiar, but the mother was afraid of him, he knew it. And so in sorrow as he saw it,
it excited him, he forgot himself and said with an angry expression, while it increased the
redness in his face: "grandmother, we may not talk to her mother that she must cry so that
suffers not the father! "

The grandmother, who otherwise would never let him go to such unruly appearance, overlooked it
this time; for his gallant defense of the mother she liked.

"I have not made your mother sad," she said, "but this letter, although it is that the father
is coming soon. Now look at just how you comforted them. You can play with it the read letter ready,
"the Journal was in his hand and left the two. stood Gebhard perplexed with the letter because
it was a strange handwriting still a difficult task.

"I can not read aloud," he said, "and not comfort."
As gathered up Helen: "No, my poor dear boy, thou shalt not comfort
me, you do me even so sorry. I'll tell you why I cry, "See, the Father,
thy darling Father is blind, his love, beautiful eyes have been destroyed
him in revenge, because he Germans did not want to reveal to the Russians.
"She pulled him on how terrible had him that hung so faithful to his
father, his this message! But it was different than she thought. Not
tears came into her eyes, they shone and proud of it sounded almost
exultantly: "Now It must all believe that the Father is not a traitor,
everyone, including his uncle and aunt! Mother, you write them the
same, today? "

"Yes, yes. Now they have the evidence they wanted!
Such a terrible proof!" She dreaded again.
"He added that he was so convinced of what he said," relates Pigafetta--for it is as well to
quote the author verbatim in such a matter--"that he agreed to lose his head if what he promised
did not happen immediately. We then made a procession, with all possible pomp, from the place
where we were to the sick man's house, whom we found really in a very sad state in that he
could neither speak nor move. We baptized him with two of his wives and ten daughters. The
captain asked him directly after his baptism how he found himself, and he suddenly replied
that thanks to our Lord he was well. We were all witnesses of this miracle. The captain above
all rendered thanks to God for it. He gave the prince a refreshing drink, and continued to
send him some of it every day till he was quite restored. On the fifth day the invalid found
himself quite cured and got up. His first care was to have burned, in the presence of the king
and all the people, an idol for which he had great veneration, and which some old women guarded
carefully in his house. He also caused some temples which stood on the sea-shore, and in which
the people assembled to eat the meat consecrated to their old divinities, to be thrown down.
All the inhabitants applauded these acts, and proposed themselves to go and destroy all the
idols, even those which were in use in the king's house, crying at the same time 'Vive la Castille!'
in honour of the king of Spain."

Near to the Island of Zebu is another island called Matan which had two chiefs, one of whom
had recognized the authority of Spain, while the other having energetically resisted it, Magellan
resolved to impose it upon him by force. On Friday, the 26th of April, three long boats left
for the Island of Matan containing sixty men wearing cuirasses and helmets, and armed with
muskets; and thirty balangais bearing the king of Zebu, his son-in-law, and a number of warriors.

The Spaniards waited for day and then to the number of forty-nine leapt into the water, for
the boats could not approach the land on account of the rocks and shallow water. Soon the Baron knew everything about the family, especially that of the only son of
Edgar a Viennese lawyer was apparently from the wealthy Jewish bourgeoisie. And by clever Polls, he
explored quickly that the mother can stay at the Semmering quite not expressed delight and
laments the lack of congenial society had, indeed, he believed Indeed, from the evasive way in which
Edgar replied to the question whether the Mama Papa 'm very happy to be able to see that not
everything would be the best. Almost ashamed it is how easy it was for him to unsuspecting boys
all these little family secrets to elicit, for Edgar, very proud that something of what he
had to tell a interested adults could be forced to trust new friends is a natural. His child's
heart beat with pride - the Baron was walking him in his arm to the Shoulder down - to be seen
publicly in such intimacy with an adult, and gradually he forgot his own childhood, chattered
freely and naturally as to a Peers. Edgar, like his conversation was very clever, a bit precocious,
like most sickly children, who were much together with adults, and a strangely overwrought Passion
of affection or hostility. He seemed to do a peaceful relationship with have, by any person or
thing, he said, either in ecstasy or with a hatred, was so violent that he distorted his face unpleasant
and almost vicious and ugly made. Something wild and erratic, perhaps due to the recently survived
Disease, gave his speeches fanatical fire, and it seemed that his only difficulty Linkischsein
repressed fear of their own passion was.

The Baron won with ease, his confidence. Half an hour only, and he had this hot and restless heart
quivering in his hand.

It is so unspeakably easy to cheat children this innocence, is appealing for their love so rare.
He took himself only in the to forget the past, and so natural, so naturally he was the child's
conversation, that even the boy felt it all as equals and in a few minutes every sense of
distance lost. He was saved only by good fortune, here in this lonely place suddenly found a friend
have, and what a friend! Forgot they were all in Vienna, the little boy with their thin voices, their
inexperienced gossip, were swept away as their images of this new one hour! His passion was all
the rave now this new, his great friends, and his heart expanded with pride as this it now
bye again invited to come back tomorrow morning, and the new friend waved to him from now the
distance, just like a brother. This moment was perhaps the finest of his life. It is so easy to
deceive children. - The Baron smiled after the door of which Menden. The mediator was now won.
The boy would now that he knew his mother with tales to exhaustion torture, repeat every word
- and he remembered with pleasure, as sent He woven some compliments to their address, as
he always Edgar's "beautiful mother" had spoken. It was a foregone conclusion for him that is not
the talkative boy earlier would rest until he and his mother would have united him. He now needs no to
lift a finger to reduce the distance between itself and the handsome stranger, could now dream of quiet
and the landscape over looking for he knew a couple of hot hands of children built him a bridge
to her heart.

Trio

The plan was like an hour later turned out, excellent and up to the
last detail succeeded.

When the young Baron, with intention a little late, walked into the
dining room, shrugged Edgar from the armchair, eagerly greeted with
a blessed smile and waved to him.

 But Juan
de Carvalho and the others, fearing that the insurrection would become general, and that they
might be attacked during the negotiations by a numerous fleet which they would not be able
to resist, turned a deaf ear to the unfortunate Serrano's supplications. The ships set sail
and reached the Island of Bohol, which was not far distant.

When there, thinking that their numbers were too much reduced to navigate three vessels, they
burnt the Concepcion, after having transshipped all that was most precious on board the other
vessels. Then, after having coasted along the Island of Panilongon they stopped at Butuan,
which forms part of Mindanao, a magnificent island, with numerous ports, and rivers abounding
in fish, to the north-west of which lies the Island of Luzon, the most considerable of the
Archipelago. The ships touched also at Paloan, where they found pigs, goats, fowls, different
kinds of bananas, cocoa-nuts, sugar-canes, and rice, with which they provisioned the ships.
This was for them, as Pigafetta expresses it, "a promised land." Among the things which he
thought worthy of notice, the Italian traveller mentions the cocks kept by the natives for
fighting; a passion which after so many years is still deeply-rooted amongst the population
of the whole Philippine Archipelago. From Paloan, the Spaniards next went to the Island of
Borneo, the centre of Malay civilization. From that time they had no longer to deal with poverty-stricken
people, but with a rich population, who received them with magnificence. Their reception by
the rajah is sufficiently curious to warrant a few words being devoted to it. 

She cursed the son as a tool of the curse, has forgiven him, because death is pity its not wanted
- the curse or the pardon as a key idea pass through the remaining life story of her son?
-

The hypocrite was through the death and the forgiveness of the mother is not taken particularly;
He saw in this incident only a new proof of the scooped from his
novels Conviction to be destined for an adventurous life.

A can of the wonderful things to Providence equipped man of his sort through all the Challenges to the
mundane world outside touching little lives in other times and higher regions and is content to
counter prosaic superior contempt and chivalrous Despite and the "creeping things" that crawl
around on the club of Hercules to prove, in fact, that after his
petty chicanery and tiny so little wonder as to the views and the
order of the present prosaic world in general.

The Colonel had the Hobisten in the room and arrest order in the already beloved Roman World beaten
into it, three months of the Supreme Hobist defiance lived very happily in Castles, tournaments
fought, valiantly against Saracens, freed more than a knight lady
with hochwallendem blue eyes and bosom, and retired as a captain in
weitgefürchteter robber inaccessible rock castles back.

Hardly during the trial the happy man knew something of the prosaic reality and more than once
he talked with his peas and potatoes loud enough to feud funny knights faithful squire and lady,
which he proffered wine nectar instead of geese. As the Hobisten had ever laughed at by the great
drummer and ridiculed, mocked and ridiculed it now also Benedict - had made it that much, they
brought about this the contrary. More than once were well-meaning supervisors and officers
to the Hobisten Benedict award, so it does not fall in Doctor Rollers
hands, but goodness, and Ernst bounced off him.

The three months of detention rooms were almost at an end, as does a popular, well-educated and brave
in the Adjutant Hobistenzimmer and makes the Bedict [Benedict], always with the Knights and lady
speaks, very quiet, sensible and humane ideas.

But this hardly hear him and as the adjutant he prophesied the madhouse, he stretches out
his hand and literally speaks thus:

"You are not called as an apostle and have such a brave knight of my kind certainly not to make
accusations, silent Wherefore, if I do not down the gauntlet the feet and throw you to make
you feel my power! "-

The response of the aides was arrested on 3 days dark, the dark cell was the head the hypocrites
do not brighter!

       ... At last the 3 months have passed of the room arrest, at the commencement
of it, the spring was barely in the making, now finds the liberated
life, movement, Joy, love and beauty everywhere, all he has otherwise
looked indifferent, high interest for him, he feels reborn as it were,
and a more beautiful, higher life is in him awake! -

* * * * *

Gleanings

It
is likely that the Straßenbasche one or two times the steps of the
house Commandante ascended to the Supreme Lord, to visit his old war
comrades, who touched to save his honor and appeal to Benedict Rosele
a good word.

One day, said the colonel to Conductor:

"Listen, your Hobist that
Benedict is not a bad guy, but he is cursed by his Leserei a greater
fool, for the great drummer!

... The guy sitting still in the room arrest takes me half and half and at times when his treasure from
the Rhine comes over to him visit, so we do not have anything against it. It should be a sensible,
good girl and very likely to protect the guy in front of the madhouse! "

The conductor said, these orders behind the ears, and turned no one on the other hand, if Straßenbasches
foster daughter on Sundays at times in the barracks came to the captive to visit dreamer, but was not
this green.

The change which was going on in this, the Rosa not hidden, for he
now spoke often in a sky-high style, which they did not understand
and the once-humble, modest and humble words of it gradually took
over.

They warned him too teacher and severally, to obey the superiors and to be honest, bored him
with their prosaic Sermons and in their presence even though he had the brightest moments and
never forgot a hundred times "on Ritter word and a handshake" to
pledge obedience, they entertained but little hope and returned each
time for thoughtful Straßenbasche back.

 His clothing consisted of a
very fine shirt, the cuffs of which were embroidered in gold; drapery descended from his waist
to his feet; a silk veil (no doubt a turban) covered his head, and upon this veil there was
a garland of flowers. His name is Rajah-sultan Manzor."

The next day, in a long interview which he had with the Spaniards, Manzor declared his intention
of placing himself with the Islands of Ternate and Tidor under the protection of the king of Spain.

This is the place to give some details about the Archipelago of the Moluccas, drawn from Pigafetta's
narrative, which we are following step by step in the version that M. Ed. Charton has given,
and to which he has added such valuable notes.

This Archipelago properly speaking, comprises the Islands of Gilolo, Ternate, Tidor, Mornay,
Batchian, and Misal; but the Banda and Amboyna groups are also often comprehended under the
general name of Molucca. Formerly convulsed by repeated volcanic commotions, this Archipelago
contains a great number of craters almost all extinct, or in repose during a long succession
of years. The air there is burning, and would be almost unfit to breathe, if frequent rains
did not fall and refresh the atmosphere. The natural productions are extremely valuable. ... If not use good words, I will be
otherwise do with you, "cries the heavily wounded, angry mother.

The father is sitting at the table in an old calendar investigated the date on which the small Ammerey
was born, but now he stands up and reaches for the ropes, in addition to the great book of
legends the box to hang, but the hypocrites shoots like a bullet
out of the tube to the door inside out into the dark night.

A few minutes later he walks into the house of Brandpeterle in which the red Schwitte now has opened
its headquarters. The Brandpeterle does not sit in the room, for he is long been over there in
the churchyard, but his infamous widow is just two jugs of wine on the table, her pretty but
reckless daughter, Hanne, sitting on the lap of William, who with five other boys and five of the
red Madler Schwitte just the hypocrites talk, because this is expected. That evening, the former
principal of the black Schwitte fully appointed to head the red, the Hanne for "conjugal lover"
made of the same and the first order of the new convert is: Brandpeterles
house is the headquarters of the red Schwitters, the whole virginity
is in the grip of the black!

At about the time when Benedict was wont to take the market basket
on his head, he does Brandpeterles from home and not go home to fetch
the basket, but also to the village of and the cross over, where he
was three years ago in Corpus Christi the May night.

A Portuguese named Lorosa had been long settled in the Moluccas, and to him the Spaniards forwarded
a letter, in the hope that he would betray his country and attach himself to Spain. They obtained
the most curious information from him with regard to the expeditions which the king of Portugal
had despatched to the Cape of Good Hope, to the Rio de la Plata and to the Moluccas; but from
various circumstances these latter expeditions had not been able to take place. He himself
had been sixteen years in this Archipelago; the Portuguese had been installed there for ten
years, but upon this fact they preserved the most complete silence. When Lorosa saw the Spaniards
making their preparations for departure, he came on board with his wife and his goods to return
to Europe. Max is not for nothing that spoke during Benedict in the
schoolhouse sat, stood out clear as day at midnight. The May, however, as it the frames, which include
the cross and the altar of love, and how does a poor image without frame bargain? The larger,
more beautiful and fresh the May, the greater the honor for the Girls, on the May saw the people
of neighboring villages, such as boys and girls in that year stood together, in living memory
had never been missing the May, drum This year the girls did it the more it hurts, they saw
not only the Lord God overlooked but themselves abused.

Benedict is the helpless, anxious, his heart beetle in front of the little window, the rain
falls down with rain from the dark night sky, and whether the Vosges, the Rhine valley and Black
Forest both flame and lightning kanonirt one hundred voices thunder.

"Go home, dear ones, Maien have here, I will not leave you!" says the last Benedict, the girls
her hand, close the window, and sneaking to the parents. The mother has all its silk and Taffetbänder
sent to school, they know that the girls This year especially struggled, now he tells how the boys acted
shamefully and Mother meets her old man from sleep. "Were the working day not in the past
and the Corpus Christi come, so I would truly spite of storm and
weather in the forest!

"says the Benedict reluctantly, to feel the parents of the pulse.

"What is being worked on Sundays and public holidays to honor God, is not a sin!" Replies the
Mother. "

"But how do Maien? The willow sticks on the stream are cut down, ... the weather is horrible, I
would just get Birklein young, 'tis almost an hour in the woods and
if I am the Cyriak, the keeper caught, there would be precious Maytime,
"says the Benedict." Ah bah! Cyriak or no ago, when it would be you
seriously, you would not ask after it, whether precious or inexpensive
Maien there! The only reply given to Espinosa's remonstrances was a threat to hang him
to the yard of a vessel; and the unfortunate alguazil, after having been transferred to Cochin,
was sent to Lisbon, where for seven months he remained shut up in the prison of the Limoeiro
with two Spaniards, the sole survivors of the crew of the Trinidad. Dr. Stegemann knew no siesta. She was of the opinion that it for healthy people
is enough to rest at night and not realized that so many young people Hours of her life without
work or pleasure, bring in the naked nothing like it. The crew of the Victoria was
composed of only fifty-three Europeans and thirteen Indians. Fifty-four Europeans remained
at Tidor on board the Trinidad. 

From him I learned what was played out in the world and my hope for exemption was so lively
that I asked myself the morning of each day: Are you going to house the bell today hear evening
- Before May 1849 I lost the nobles, in May, I experienced the liberation of political prisoners
and expected mine - in vain. Now I brooded again gloomy Plane insatiable revenge indulged in
inhuman hatred and bloody dreams found is the only entertainment, because I was in the church
not to listen between the bare Cell walls not to read and not to sleep at night arrived.

I write stuff, still some paper and began to write poetry. A collection.
 This island was frequented
by junks from Luzon, and by the "praos," from Malacca and Java, which traded largely there
in sandal-wood and pepper. A little further on the Spaniards touched at Java, where, as it
appears, suttee was practised at this time, as it has been in India until quite recently. 

The faithful girl, who belonged to the old-fashioned Schwitte stood, isolated with their loyalty,
because most boys and their party were Mädle the silent, quiet, humble demeanor have come out
of the head of the credit usually only for a new act of adjustment. In contrast met the red
Schwitte the hypocrites so friendly, courteous and kind as ever, because she thought now or
never the right moment is there to him quite at her to engage.
 "To the north of Greater Java," says Pigafetta,
"in the gulf of China, there is a very large tree called campanganghi inhabited by certain
birds called garula, which are so large and strong that they can bear away a buffalo and even
an elephant, and carry it as they fly to the place where the tree puzathaer is." 

The hypocrite is a trade that will pay 20 francs in the joy of his heart, makes Uriah letter
from the old spill and absorbs half a dozen Cologne pipes while he the Lord's return with the
new passport expected.

