"If you go, my son, you will go against the wishes of your parents and every relative you have;
and if you go in such a manner and under the present circumstances you cannot carry along with
you 'a mother's blessing'."

"I don't care!" replied Fred haughtily. "Mother, you have no love for me. You have vindicated
the guilty actions of Clara in opposition to my opinions. You have tantalised my soul by so
doing. I shall no longer bear the insults, you heap upon me,"--and therewith Fred arose and
made his exit abruptly from the room.

It appears that for several weeks past Fred had been ruminating upon going to Canada, reviving
as it were his former intentions. His sore throat had originated from sudden exposure to the
raw air of night on coming out from a crowded hall where he had been listening to a highly-colored
lecture upon Canada and the Clerkenwell-Emigration-Scheme. The recent occurrence had made him
still more determined, and also, afforded, as he considered, a sufficient plea to justify his
purpose. That same evening, immediately after tea, his father being made aware of the design,
took him aside and began to expostulate with him.

"Father, I have determined upon leaving and therefore your influence can have no effect," exclaimed
Fred.

"But remember, my son, that text of Scripture which saith, 'Children obey your parents in all
things.'"

"And let me add," cried Fred, "the following, from the same author, 'Fathers provoke not your
children to anger lest they be discouraged.'"

"Ah, Fred! that sentence is not applicable to my case. As a duty of parental affection I only
counsel you for your own good. Remember, my son, what Solomon says: 'A fool despiseth his father's
instructions, but he who regardeth reproof is prudent. Correction is grievous to him who forsaketh
the way, and he who hateth reproof shall die.'"

"I am no fool," ejaculated Fred, "I am of age. I shall, therefore, do as I please."

"Ah! Fred, Fred, I'm afraid your conduct will yet bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the
grave. Perchance you may yet remember my words in a foreign land, without a kind friend to
pity you in your distress. Ah, Fred! I hope, however, that you will not play the prodigal.
Let me, therefore, read you the 15th chapter of Luke."

Without replying Fred abruptly left the room before his father had time to bring forth the Bible.

"Well, well, but this is really annoying," said Fred to himself after he had gone to his room.
"Do they think that I have no mind of my own; so that I am to be mechanically guided by theirs.
They favor Clara, and disrespect me because I do not favor her also. They say she loves me;
if she does, my absence will test it. However, I will not allow myself to be treated as a captive.
I shall and must have liberty, or else I die. I shall leave London this very night. I shall
leave without shedding a tear or bidding a friend good bye. They will perhaps learn to love
me better when I am gone." So saying, he began to prepare. Having filled two large carpet bags
with such articles as were most necessary he moved quietly out of the house and by a back stairway
reached the street. Having placed himself in a Hansom-cab stationed near by he was quickly
conveyed to the station and in time for the night train to Liverpool.

On the following morning he embarked upon the Moravian, belonging to the Allan Line of Steamships,
plying at that time of the season between Liverpool and Portland, in Maine, U.S.

The steam is up; anchors are weighed; and the vessel is soon riding out from the harbor towards
mid-ocean. Although the air is cold, the deck is crowded with persons, among whom is Frederick
Charlston, viewing the receding objects, and at length taking their farewell view of the dimly
distant shores of their native land.

Day passed,--and the shadows of the night came down. The vessel was dashing over the foaming
billows. The winds were whistling dolefully amid the sails. A feeling of loneliness crept over
the soul of poor Fred, and he retired to his hammock. Visions of the past and future floated
across his mind, and under the poetic mantle of inspiration he gave vent to his feelings in
the following verses:

    Farewell to thee, England, the land of my birth,
    The dearest, the fairest of countries on earth,
    I love thee, yet leave thee, perhaps to deplore,
    Alas, it may be to behold thee no more. 

    A state are between the two, as Julien loved that the bow
    are during which can he rested trembled.
    "as certain upon
    a we are yet," said Dorsenne. "one of my friend, Marquis at Montfanon,
loved i loved this morning."

    Old London, farewell,--my birth-place and home,
    Far distant from thee I am destined to roam,
    On the home I once loved a fond wish too I'll pour,
    Tho' its household and hearth I may visit no more.

    Sweet child of my love! Ah! the thought breaks my heart,
    To know that thy mother hath caused us to part,
    I love thee, yet leave thee, nor can she restore
    A joy to this soul that may see thee no more.

    To the land of the stranger I go--yes--I go,
    In search of those blessings which it can bestow,
    Its forests, its lakes, I shall proudly explore,
    Far, far from that home I may visit no more.

Thus sang the young poet. But before morning had dawned upon the billows of the ocean all the
poetic fancy that was flickering in his half-phrenzied brain was driven out by a serious attack
of sea-sickness. His emanations were then of a much grosser sort of material than the etherial-essence
of poetic sentiment. During three long and wearied nights he continued in a most pitiable condition;
his thoughts bewildered and fluctuating; at times, half regretting the course he had taken.
The weather was tempestuous during the voyage; but, at length, in the afternoon of the twelfth
day the vessel and all the passengers were safely landed at Portland. That evening Fred went
on board the train for Montreal, but did not reach his destination until late in the afternoon
of the second day, the journey having been prolonged by a severe snow storm. The cold was very
intense. It was then that the words of Charles Holstrom occurred to his mind about the Canadian
mountains of snow and the cold at 150 degrees of temperature below zero. He, however, arrived
safely at Montreal, yet, cold, hungry and exhausted, and immediately engaged lodgings at the
St. James' Hotel, where after a warm and hearty meal he soon experienced a more comfortable
state of feelings.

Night's shadows had settled down over the fair city. The great bell of the cathedral of Notre
Dame was scattering its solemn tones over the dim air. The city-lamps were sending forth their
mellow radiance. Throngs of pedestrians were moving to and fro. Sleigh after sleigh was hurrying
along, filled with joyous souls, and drawn by sprightly steeds dancing as if it were to the
sounds of the merry-tinkling sleigh-bells. Fred looked out upon the gay panorama of Canadian
city life. It was a new and attractive sight to him, and he felt an itching desire to try the
novel experiment of taking a sleigh ride; but his spirit recoiled within itself when the fact
was brought forcibly to his mind that it was "Christmas' Night." He thought of the many happy
Christmas evenings which he had enjoyed amid the society of his friends in the good old city
of London. A thousand associations flashed across his memory, filling his solitary mind with
sadness and regrets. Around him everywhere he beheld gay crowds flickering with joyous excitement.
More keenly than ever he then felt that he was only a stranger in a strange land, isolated
from congenial society, and far removed from his friends and his once happy home. Conscience
awakened his mind to the reality of his past folly, and his heart was wounded by its own stings.
A heavy weight of sorrow pressed deeply upon his bosom. A deep sigh rolled out heavily upon
his lips. Tears glistened in his eyes; and alas, poor Frederick Charlston again wished himself
back to London.

CHAPTER VI.

The holidays having passed, Fred sought out and found immediate employment in Montreal. The
sad impressions that were engraven upon his mind at first began and continued gradually to
wear off. New friendships were formed. Things became more and more familiar to him, and at
length he experienced a much happier state of mind. At first he purposed writing immediately
to his friends in London, but after a few postponements, resolved not to do so, as he considered
it would show an effeminency on his part, and that a few month's silence would perhaps season
their affection for him.

Two of his fellow-workmen, who belonged to a company of volunteers, persuaded Fred to join
their ranks. He was tolerably well acquainted with military discipline, having practically
served in a company during his residence at Tiverton; and he had also studied considerably
the tactics of war, therefore he found no difficulty in getting himself initiated as a Canadian
volunteer; but in so doing it ultimately proved to be another unfortunate step. The circle
of his acquaintances was thus increased tenfold. Military glory unfolded its social charms.
Friendly meetings with jovial comrades became more frequent. The foaming glass sparkled brightly
with fascination. Temptation unmasked itself. Again and again his companions of the evenings
had recourse to expedients to induce him to drink with them. I was, and i am, mistaken that in one-fourth
time, in an street, very, the tomorrow, you will consider me introduce a prevaricator or say
a imbecile arms. "what i have to state to you, as i can state so tomorrow." you are convinced
Lips, gorka, "continued Dorsenne.

And, since you have misinterpreted my silence, it is my work to speak, and i do even. I to take you
my word of haveril i have been ne'er had an connexion Dignity Smoke and Maitland honor, nor have
their relations seemed alter to maine for a billa for your nonoccurrence.

He knows how to warm up a fellow when the cold is 30 degrees below zero."

They entered, and became seated in a room adjoining the bar.

"Well, Fred, what's your choice," said Haveril.

"A glass of cold water," replied Fred.

"Horrible! horrible!" ejaculated Haveril. "Are you really going to commit an arctic outrage
upon your sensibilities? That will never do if you intend living in Canada."

"Perhaps he wants to convert himself into an ice-house," exclaimed Harry Jenkins.

"Gentlemen," said Fred, "I previously informed you that I belong to the Sons of Temperance;
you will therefore confer a favor by not pressing your kindness further upon me."

"Take it as a medicine, then; a glass will neither awaken your conscience nor injure your stomach,"
said Haveril.

"Do as St. Paul advised Timothy to do--take a little for your stomach's sake and your often
infirmities," said Nichol Henderson.

"Come, Fred, one glass will never ruffle a feather in your conscience," said Ernest Stevens.

"Come, boys! tip up your bumpers!" exclaimed Haveril, and then singing aloud, followed by the
others in chorus,

"For Fred's a jolly good fellow," &c.

Frederick having declined was again pressed to drink, to which he replied--"I am willing to
condescend to the wishes of the company in which I may be placed; but when principle is at
stake I must necessarily decline sacrificing my honor to the demands of others, even those
of my best friends, as I am a pledge-bound total abstainer."

"Pooh! pooh!" ejaculated Jenkins, "that's enough of your sophisticated balderdash. Do you not
know that a London pledge is not valid in Canada?"

"Why, what's the difference," exclaimed Fred, "the principle is the same throughout."

"Well, sir, the difference is just this," said Jenkins, "every country has its own laws, and
every subject therein is commanded to obey them, and to do so only while he is a resident.
The laws of the temperance cause are based upon the same principle."

"Philosophically speaking, you cannot assimilate them," replied Fred.

"Civil laws differ according to the government of a country, the characteristics of a people,
their intellectual, moral and spiritual condition, etc. Whereas, the temperance cause, in its
strictest sense, is everywhere identical, and its laws universal; the essence of which in the
abstract is simply 'to abstain' and 'to obey.' But suppose, for the sake of argument, that
you are right in your opinion, I ask then, is there sufficient reason in the act of having
withdrawn myself from the country in which I took the pledge, to disannul my responsibility,
when I have not withdrawn my name from the Society's list of membership. And again, I ask you,
if I desire to remain a total abstainer, wherefore should I compel myself unnecessarily, in
order to please others, to sacrifice my liberty to the 'king of evils,' even should I feel
no longer bound to obey the laws of the Society."

"I say, Fred, for goodness' sake stop," exclaimed Sandie Johnstone, "or else you will sink
us so deeply into the ruts of philosophy that our friends will never be able to discover us."

"Go on, Fred, go on, you're a brick," cried Haveril. "Give Jenkins another dig with your philosophical
pick."

"Fair play," shouted Jenkins, "'tis my turn to bait the trap."

"Bait it with a bottle of brandy," cried Haveril, "and we'll see who'll bite at it first."

"If Jenkins wont, I'll bet you a dollar you will," ejaculated Johnstone.

"Yes, Haveril would bite at the very devil if his Satanical Majesty was filled to the teeth
with brandy," exclaimed Jenkins, the others chorusing with a series of discordant laughs.

"Well, well, gentlemen," exclaimed Fred, "if you desire the continuance of my friendship, and
if you wish to respect the dignity of morality and the English language, you must refrain from
using such insinuating balderdash and bar-room-slang."

"You're right, Fred, stick to your subject and make them all your subjects," said Ernest Stevens.

"Why, Fred, if you would only take a gentle sipling of the nectar you would know how to appreciate
and enjoy our company," said Henderson.

"True friendship and true happiness are based upon more solid material than liquids," replied
Frederick.

"Well, Fred, as you are a sort of philosopher, allow me to ask you, if the true destiny of
man, both here and hereafter, is not the enjoyment of life?" interrogated Henderson.

"Certainly, sir," replied Fred; "but I further believe that our Maker designed that man should
use the proper means for the promotion of both terrestrial and celestial happiness."

"Our opinions are identical, then," exclaimed Henderson. "We are both of the same mind and
yet cannot agree; and the reason is simply this--that I occasionally partake of a social glass
with my friends as a means to awaken and promote enjoyment; whereas you teetotally reject the
means. This delicious nectar sparkling before me has the inherent virtues of making me truly
happy; I, therefore, use it for its medicinal qualities. So here is my best respects to you
all, boys,--not forgetting you, Fred," added Henderson, raising the tumbler to his lips and
draining the liquor to its very dregs.

"Ha! ha! ha!" ejaculated Jenkins, "I say, Fred, you are completely cornered up, Henderson's
as good a philosopher as yourself."

"That may be so," replied Fred, "but I wish you, and Henderson also, to bear in mind that reason
may be twisted into sophistry. He must first prove the premises of his arguments to be correct,
namely, 'that spirituous liquors are conducive to the happiness of mankind'--otherwise, the
syllogism must be false. To attempt such an undertaking would be a more fool-hardy task than
that of Hercules to carry the globe upon his back. My dear sir, you would soon find that the
universal evidence of the world would be against you. The horrid shrieks of suffering humanity
would denounce the falsity of your arguments, while myriads of skeletons would startle from
their graves with horrid indignation!"

"Hold on, hold on, I say, Fred," shouted Henderson, "you are firing away your balls at random
and never look at the target."

"I think he has made a good many bull-eyes in your head," exclaimed Stevens.

"Come, come, boys, we'll have a horn on the head of the subject," cried Jenkins.

"Yes, yes, that's the talk," responded some of the others.

"Hold on, hold on, gentlemen," exclaimed Henderson, slightly irritated. "I must have fair play
in the game."

"By all means," said Fred, "I shall see that you shall."

"Well, sir," said H., "allow me to inform you, that in your arguments you deviated from the
proposition I made, namely--that liquor as a means is conducive to human happiness. I mean
the proper use of it; but you immediately darted off to the furthest extremity of the subject,
and by a sort of superlative sophistry of your own, you attempted to conjure up a horrid array
of evils arising from the abuse of that spiritual gift, which is the very essence of those
cereals designed by the Author of Creation as the principal sustainer of animal life."

"You accuse me, sir, of doing injustice to your proposition, by representing the consequences
of abusing that spiritual gift, as you very improperly term it," said Fred. "Your proposition,
let me tell you, embraces only the germs; but I look forward to the fruits thereof. He would
be but a very foolish farmer indeed, who would sow tares or imperfect seed for the mere pleasure
of seeing his fields adorned with verdure, without looking forward to the consequences. Every
good farmer anticipates an abundant harvest and accordingly sows the best seed. So should every
man who desires to reap a harvest of happiness. He should look well to the seed, and sow only
that which will eventually produce the best results. Again, you say that liquor when used in
moderation, is a means of producing human happiness, and therefore should be used. I beg to
differ with you; happiness arises not from the animal impulses of human nature stimulated by
intoxicating liquor. Use it moderately you say. Alas, how many millions have been ruined forever
by the taking of only one single glass at first, only one glass! Think of it! It is the magnet
that attracts material akin to itself; alas, what a world of wretchedness and crime is reflected
from that nucleus of Intemperance."

"Hold on, hold on, Fred," ejaculated Jenkins, "that'll do for the present."

"Go on, Fred, your illustrations are beautiful and impressive," cried Stevens, "go on, you
are hitting the target at every shot."

"For goodness sake, Fred, do stop; or you will convert us all into a company of 'cold water-boys,'"
cried Jenkins.

"Come! come, my lads," exclaimed Haveril, "we'll wind up for the present with a bumper of 'hot
Scotch' and I'll pay for the drinks."

"Hot Scotch! hot Scotch!" shouted a half dozen of voices--and having partaken of a rousing
bumper they called upon Fred to favor them with a song, to which he responded in the following
Temperance Song, entitled "One Glass More."

    Behold yon wretch at the tavern-bar:
      His matted hair hangs over his brow;
    The manly form and the noble soul
      Are wrecked and lost in the drunkard now.
    He shivering stands in his dirty rags,
      With bloated face and his blood-shot eyes;
    With quivering lips and a fever'd breath
      For one glass more how he pleading cries.

    Chorus.--O give me, sir, but a single glass;
                 O pity me now when my cash is done;
               The night is cold and my blood runs chill,
                 And all I ask is a single one.

    Away from here, you miserable wretch;
      I want no more of your blubbering gas,
    Be off at once! or I'll kick you out;
      You'll get none here--not a single glass,
    What brought you here in your filthy rags,
      To disgrace my house in this drunken way.
    At once, begone! for you'll get no drink,
      No, not a glass, when you've nothing to pay.

    Chorus.--O give me, sir, &c.

    O, wherefore, sir, would you kick me out!
      Why so unjust to thy friend art thou;
    You gave me drink and you took my cash,
      You made me, sir, as you see me now.
    You scorn me too, as a drunken wretch,
      Debased and steep't in the dregs of sin;
    And when I ask but a single glass,
      You'll kick me out tho' you took me in.

    Chorus.--O give me, sir, &c.

    Thro' ten long years while I labored hard,
      You gave me drink, and you drain'd my purse,
    I was your friend, and your blessings then,
      Have proved at length but a demon's curse.
    My loving wife and my children dear,
      Have often sigh'd with a hungry soul,
    While I was here with my social friends
      And drinking deep from your mad'ning bowl.

    Chorus.--O give me, sir, &c.

    My health and youth I have wasted here;
      To thee, for drink, my money I gave;
    I'm now a wreck of what I was once,
      And sinking fast to a drunkard's grave;
    All wasted here in my reckless course,
      Which neither thou nor time can restore;
    Then pity me now for old friendship's sake,
      And give one glass and I'll ask no more.

    Chorus.--"Begone from here, you miserable wretch!"
                 The landlord cried, and he stamp't and swore,
               Then kick't him out to the cold night storm,
                 And curs'd the wretch as he closed his door.

Frederick Charlston continued to step into a saloon occasionally to pass an evening with his
comrades. Every expedient was tried to persuade him to taste with them; but with a manly spirit
of independence he remained for several weeks invincible to their attacks. At length he was
induced to take a tumbler with hot water, sweetened with sugar, and flavored with nutmeg and
peppermint. But Jenkins one night gave the innkeeper a wink to put a few drops of Scotch whiskey
into Fred's tumbler. A few drops were sufficient to slightly stimulate his brain, and produce
a flow of social feeling within his heart; and thus, when too late, he discovered that he had
tasted of the evil spirit. Having once tasted, he felt a less restriction of duty; and on subsequent
occasions allowed a few drops to be added to the mixture. Only a few drops! how insignificant
in number! how innocent they appear within themselves! But, alas, a few drops were added to
the few, until they became a great number; and before winter had thrown off its fleecy covering,
Frederick Charlston could empty a tumbler of hot punch as readily as any of his comrades. Thus,
he who had once nobly defended the cause of Temperance, and had remained so long invincible,
at length dishonored that pledge which, even under the most trying circumstances, he had hitherto
never violated. Some had been only were affectionate contents. The minority were simple. Others had consisted
frequently of friendship, as he was the instance who became in Saturday Sound violated steno. But,
as he held that the hypothesis he could not be defended by sign, he did not believe that he was
often at biologism, for what he called his "mind." Every woman, and a mistress or his person,
had been to he, nine carousals in ten, either curiosity, were then a model. The man had never employed
a conceit than his enthusiasm. For a few weeks at first his moral feelings were occasionally awakened
by the stings of conscience; but gradually they became less susceptible and less unwilling
to recognize or respect the laws of moral responsibility.

CHAPTER VII.

April came, and with it came the alarm of an intended invasion of Canada by the Fenians. All
the volunteers were ordered to be in immediate readiness, and several companies were stationed
at different places along the Province Line, south of the River St. Lawrence. Every precautionary
preparation was being made by the Canadian government, and also by the inhabitants. Great excitement
prevailed during several days; and a series of appalling rumors were daily in circulation.
But April passed away, and none of the Verdants made their appearance on the north side of
the Line 45. There was apparently a lull in the Fenian camp.

But on the morning of the 23rd of May following, the bugle again sounded the alarm. Gen. O'Neill
had again stirred up the "Circles" to their very "Centres," and there was a fearful rattling
among the dry bones. Every telegram brought additional intelligence confirming the affair.
The march had in reality begun; and 50,000 men, as rumored, were marching towards Canada, in
a direct line to Montreal. All the volunteers in the Province of Quebec were again called to
arms, and every available company forwarded at once to the chief stations at St. Johns, Hemmingford,
and Huntingdon. The 69th regiment of British regulars, then stationed at Quebec, was ordered
to the front immediately. The loyal Canadian farmers in the vicinity of the Border line turned
out at once; and with rifle in hand, distributed themselves in detached parties to watch and
await the avowed enemies of their country; and defend their hearths and households in the hour
of danger.

The company to which Frederick Charlston belonged, had been ordered to St. Johns. Fred was
delightfully excited by the occurrence, which afforded him an opportunity of realizing what
he termed "a novel and romantic adventure."

On the morning of the 25th of May, 1870, a detachment of Fenians, headed by Gen. O'Neill, crossed
over the Line in the vicinity of Eccles' Hill. A company of farmers who had stationed themselves
behind the rocks of the hill, adjacent to the high-way, observed the approach of the enemy
sneaking along the road. When the Fenians had arrived within reach of gun-shot, the farmers,
unperceived, fired upon them, killing two or more, and wounding several. The astonished Verdants
at once replied by a volley, but becoming disorderly bewildered by the incessant stream of
smoke and bullets from among the rocks, they hastily retreated to an adjacent hill; and for
several hours the opposing parties in ambush kept up a continuous but ineffectual fire at each
other. At length a few detachments of Montreal volunteers and others arrived; and in conjunction
with the farmers, took part in the action. The Fenians imagining that a formidable army had
arrived, became panic-stricken and fled, headed by their leaders, at quick march over the Border
Line, where the "Fenian Tragedy" was magnificently concluded by the ludicrous farce of the
Great O'Neill making a hasty exit as a "State prisoner," under the confidential protection
of Marshal Foster.

Simultaneously with this event, another squad of Green Jackets, headed by Gen. Starr, intruded
upon Canadian soil, twelve miles beyond Huntingdon, and intrenched themselves about three-quarters
of a mile from the Border Line. There they remained until the morning of the 27th, when they
were speedily routed from their intrenchments and driven back beyond the Line by the Huntingdon
Borderers and the 69th British Regiment.

