"Of course you are. Never mind about dressing. Do you go up and tell Georgiana all about it;--and
have dinner put off half an hour. I must hunt Pickering up, if I don't find him at home." Then
Phineas did go upstairs and tell Georgiana--otherwise Mrs. Low--the whole story. That Provincial
  mules had also requested to come to these peoples, which would
  only have hope for peace, having maintained, and tested very well
  in Rome that he just thought able to bear the brunt of this province,
  being so troubled. And then finally ran a rumor that having
  returned Yapeyú browsers, which downstream vigia movements
  of the Spanish, had said, without sure, that that his pursuer had
  been taken to Lima, Nande moangeio ago Yape ogucrhaima Lima.
  But some are expected notice it.
  
  43.

  He ended the month of July, when a post Yapeyú flying or running,
  warned that the jump of Uruguay 20 Spanish boats they saw: that
  the scouts are cruzeños had met with Spanish explorers, and they
  had heard say, by command of the army generals approached:
  that four monks, the family of the Seraphic San Francisco father,
  had come to Yapeyú at festivals San Ignacio great Father, to move
  things with activity of transmigration, and having reached the sheriff's
  Lt. San Nicolas, had brought letters from the Captain General
  D. Nicolas Ñenguirú, mayor of Conception, who asked armed people
  or military supplies, it was determined that after the Feast of
  the Assumption of Our Lady, splitting the troops in each
  town. Meanwhile, three e-fame consecutive comforted the sorrowful,
  because he said that in the Yapeyú fields had reached a squadron
  of Spanish, to a small fee, called Jesus Maria, which is located
  near the jumps of Uruguay: but having sent the Indian to stop
  higher payment, and returned to their lands, and having claimed
  that their compatriots had no luck in move, and that neither the
  other people had to allow transmigration, offended the freedom
  of the Indian who resisted, having tied, took him and his men
  to rest of the army. This rumor spread by neighbors fazendeiros
  and excited to take up arms, and having called and Charruas
  summoned troops, and Guano Minuanes Gentiles who were wandering
  these fields more untimely as night, rushed to all the Spanish
  troops, to some stripped (he said they were 50), others
  forced to run, took a whole herd of horses, and released to the
  prisoners. These things happened in Uruguay.
  
  Phaco in the river, the explorers left their already Luisistas
  destroyed fortress, and approaching to that of the Portuguese,
  three guards took away the horses that grazed together at the same
  strength, and when they had pulled in vain shot from the castle,
the enemy took a troop of 14 horses.

  
  
  44. Europe warned of Lima, the confessor of the King expired at
  the end of the stimulus of his conscience, had totum declared
  the monarch in the state of affairs of Indians, who had shocked
  his Majesty, and then the point coupling the Council had ordered
the Proceres, and Universities had also called to board, so that Charms
and examine if the Indians, and his unarmed proprio motu, on the one
preaching it had secured, and surrendered their land to protect them,
and if they so freely subjects, could be lawfully deprived of their
lands, and other points.

  Still do not know the failure of directors, but is expected
  to cause justice require judges to give a just sentence.

45.
  Meanwhile, the villages situated to the other side of Uruguay,
  with those of San Nicolas that are of this, gathered together
  rushed 11 games against the Spanish that were approaching: namely,
  the conceptions, Nicole, the Thomists, and finally the Cross,
  the Apostles, the San Carlos and San Jose, San Xavier, and
  also the San Borja, but, having changed his mind, he rushed
  Yapeyú join. Besides this, those of the Martyrs, which Little has
  now, believing the priest, had been terminated go, stay behind,
  and they said, but falsely, because canoes went after the
  Uruguay River.
   And so the king had decreed that completely
  desist from this business, if the Indians wanted, because
  I knew enough from experience the Spanish, who wanted no luck
  Tapes lease its land, for that too was deemed available to the
  withdrawal. No However, putting more stubborn Frire Gomez, remained
  another month in the strange land, fortified the hills, but saw
  in his presence all the army of the Indians opposed to him, and
  stubborn not to yield. It also suffered not a little the Portuguese,
  so that they went from here to there looking buds palms, and the
  remains of tigers, and even by those things were killing each
  other's hungry, and it was said that Thus 69 had perished. Nor
  forgive the Indians, to the who were misguided because any party
  that found, killed with spears and cutlass: over 50 and died
  on the 4th of October. We have said that, having out the red
  flag or banner of war, and having saved after six Indians have
  good wins over the hills to the fight, dare to provoke the
  enemy, forming their squads. He left the Portuguese of the differences,
  and then showed the white flag, but did not dare to depart the margin
  of the hill and take the field. Meanwhile requested should come
  and talk some MPs, and were sent five Michael, and as the institute
  wanted Portuguez long talk, human and annoying, the envoys stopped,
  and said: - "That one of two, or they could go to their lands,
  or that if they had so eagerly of them, go out to field because
  the Indians were ready to conclude the business with sword.
  "Reuse the fight and said they would return would have the answers
  after the Spanish, and because collected to its mountains, and also
  had spent most the river, leaving 30 hombree guard at the pass,
  Tapes retired to their real.
  
  57. But here was raised among themselves a living contest. The three
  villages companies they reasoned that only The Michael had come
  to speak with the Portuguese, that only they had the conference
  among themselves, and the Portuguese, that he spent time lately,
and not missed or forced the enemy to retreat, with a thousand other
things to complain: and therefore to fly back to stay in their peoples.

  While thus converted to heat your business differences, arrived
  at time D. Nicolas Nenguirú, sugeto main town of Concepcion,
  which had been elected Captain General of common consent, this gave
  birth the hope of harmony, and seemed to take strength. As to 21
  were discordant, determined the invasion to day 22, which not having
  put in egecucion, some captain named Philip, went again to call
  the Gentiles Minuanes and guano, to be confederate with them,
  and with it came 12 to explore the real enemy. And then,
  having considered the aspect of things, promised that they
  were to going to bring 260 of his armed men, with their captain
  José, provided that the people should give them 100, and stays as
  many sumps bolts to use.
   But he had looked
like a duke, and known how to set a high price on his own presence.

To Mr. Maule the threatened demise of this great man was not without a peculiar interest. His
acquaintance with Madame Goesler had not been of long standing, nor even as yet had it reached
a close intimacy. During the last London season he had been introduced to her, and had dined
twice at her house. He endeavoured to make himself agreeable to her, and he flattered himself
that he had succeeded. It may be said of him generally, that he had the gift of making himself
pleasant to women. When last she had parted from him with a smile, repeating the last few words
of some good story which he had told her, the idea struck him that she after all might perhaps
be the woman. Uruguay River was calm, all things were silence from the Spanish,
  and one large unit war remained a project, nor the winter
  that had already started, allowed otherwise. In the recent
  meeting which had concluded, ambassadors came to the Yapeyú, each
  of the peoples of the other side of Uruguay, and also some more
  remote, the principal chiefs, because as he ran the known that the
  minds of those inhabitants were discordant, and that one with
  the heroes, were inclined to feel the unanimous confederation
  to suppress the enemy, and others with the captain of people did
  not want to take up arms, were there to renew and promote the
  alliance and bring his party to the captain yet the people. A truth
  that was hidden the Army, but this Embassy filled with joy again
  and curia or council, joined the heroes with the captain, and the
  people with the heroes, and ported to its so beautifully, they
  returned to their own places, and formed the confederation
  agreed, and together told certainly not seen any enemy, and yes
  only a few thieves and spies, who had been killed and stripped
  of all their mounts.
  
  17.

  By this time the priest of San Borja, having been called Little
  has by superiors, and having been sent to the Trinidad, it was
  said that had also gone down the Parana to the Spanish cities,
  and that another had been put in Instead, after that first the
  priest of St. Joseph for some time commission and met there a secret
  pesquiza. These things happened at the Spanish border.
  

  18. And back to ours, and to the Portuguese, and approached
  Michael with his captain, that little has be had retired from
  other people, (this was Alexander vice-governor of San Miguel)
  and the certain coming of those the publishing fame, and confirms
  or Sepé testified, one of the most famous captains.
  

  19. Meanwhile on the field celebrating Easter with devotion possible,
  and met the ceremonies and rites church, the place and time
  permitting, the Commemoration of Holy Passion of the Lord, while
  in churches solemnly sing Alleluia, there were two parts artillery
  with his guards and custodians. Down after the hills, and
  formed squads under six flags had more than 200 men. Saliéronles
  to meet the Luisistas squads with two banners, and greeting mutually,
  bringing its patron saint and other images of saints, (The ones
  people use to always carry it) to a chapel made of palm branches,
  and having run the horses, and made his profession of arms style,
  went à a nearby camp site, and camped at the place appointed
  for the real.
  
  20. The next day, which was the Resurrection of the Lord and
  April 12, held before the ceremony, (to wit, with Procession and
Solemn Mass) one of the captains went to the Johannites, which, although
they were neighbors, they had just arrive, and said that would come
the next day, that is, third Passover.

  Miguelistas impatient of the delay and stimulated with the old dissensions,
  reuse expected, and were strong in themselves to take the road
  Luisistas towards the enemy.
  
  21. Are encouraged to reason and sacred, political: it is namely,
  being weak forces do not support the agreement: this never would
  have if you were looking for new reasons disagreement, that one
  should not only rely on themselves forces against an enemy who,
  although outnumbered, they excelled on the site, the skill of firearms
and experience: they were also empty all the forces men, and vain
the crowd, the Lord of hosts that not protect us stronger, then there
is no hope any victory: that God hates the enmity, that is drives
away with discord, and uranium is sold or placed with dissensions.

  The same preacher began by egemplo its suffering, which had hoped
  for two months, and so wait a day, which had been expected for
  months. Silent masters, and consented to wait until the day
  Easter rearward.
  
  22. The Lorenza back again with their excuses, exposes the weakness
  and fatigue of his horses, and therefore they said, would send
  30 soldiers to help, that they would defend their lands, and
  on the other hand fight with the enemy. Seemed frivolous the
  excuse, because the others had longer paths traveled also tired
  horses, or seemed that we would have had to compromise with the
  animals, while in threatening land. And so it did not
  allow the excuse, and they notice that if it took, they guard their
  homes, and look to the future. Did not seem appropriate to
  wait, because as others were distant and withdrawn, were to
  cause prejudicial delay, or as few people (there were about 60) could
give much relief to compensate the damage that was judged would cause
the delay.

  
  
  23. It was now the day was to reach the Johannine, and still
  had passed, and yet did not seem, however his field was far only
  three or four leagues. Shortly after noon, was the passage
  of San Juan Mayor first vote, which was sent by the council
  and the people, to take the government instead of the real Ensign,
  who sent his detachment, and was the head and leader of the dissensions,
  the which had already been made known to those who sent in people.
  Then the point was dispatched, and was entrusted give haste to
  their own: finally came after some of them of vespers, and was received
  as the day before yesterday, the Miguelistas. But he shone in
  all his bad mood, because came without flags, without pomp, and
  with a mournful silence, and the very soul of the war, the drums
and trumpets just rang.

  With that being adjusted after vespers, and each gave their
  advice, and it seemed that all conspired to same thing.
  
  24. Then the next day, which was the 17th of April, leaving the
  sun, invoked the Holy Spirit of the Lord Mass solemn, and
  how that allowed the time: there were those who is strengthened
  by the sacrament of penance and communion. Made after signal bonded
  horses, saddled, removed the shops, went to the chapel, and
  offered to Lord with prayers and rites that usually these people.
  Finally at the foot of the hill squads were formed, reviewed, numbers,
  and did not appear was full ò met the army because they
  had not yet crossed the river the San Juan squads, and those
  who were there came out of their real, demonstrating their courage
  abated not enough. Those who then were present, seemed to
  reach the number of 200, debiéndose increase to 500 more, then
  it all came together. Meanwhile made his way to jubilation, à are
  trumpets and boxes.

  
  
  25. Chico Guacacay crossed the river at the foot of these mountains,
  night was seven leagues distant from the residence of San Borja:
  The following was past the hills of Arar. Having come to this
  site, went to meet the explorers, the people there set a pole
  and brought by news that the enemy had fortified the woods
  with Fagin and land checkpoints, and that did not pass the number
  of 50 men however just knew that certain thing. Bidden of all
  that was wise, and after having been ordered à masters his opinion,
  said that nothing mattered, that they would go fearlessly confident
  of the divine assistance in justice of its cause, the crowd of
  people, and also the quality of their artillery, more than the
  enemy. It halted at the same place. With all that, the suspicion
  recently had some of the people, (that is to say who had
  between one that had Luisistas trade secret the enemy) seems to be
confirmed, because the news of explored things from the enemy, with
only a distance of nearly three days' journey, the continued burning
of fields, made by the explorers to the enemy, and the same delay
in walking from here, gave some credence to what was saying.

  Seemed to the captains who were to prove this suspicion, which is
  egecutó. But the course gave Luisistas indication of his displeasure,
  when the next day, after which made the road about seven miles,
  camped on the banks ò Phacito Yaqui River, for then the captain
  of that people offered that would form the final squad, and
  more distant from the river, and in this way best, to cut off theirs
  any communication that they had with the enemy. The provision
  was good, but the reason given, said resentful spirit
  of the claimed, because "that (added) improved be known which is
  our fault. "
  
  26. In the same place this one that sent the artillery, and said
  he had not more than provision of powder for four shots of artillery,
  and this announcement caused no little care, order now because
  the powder to the towns, it seemed impossible being 100 leagues
  distant, and was ashamed, and estándose close to the enemy, missing
  the soul of the guns, and display silent parts tronarian not more
  than once. It asked the captain apparently higher, but this said
  that there were 17 loads, and each gun four, and even more,
  were brought: then clearly saw the lie of the artillery, with
  everything felt the lack of providence who had taken it.
  
  27. On Saturday in albis they began to cross the river or Phaco
  Yagi, and was found higher than what had been thought, because
  in that place is wider than all the rivers that run between these
  towns, excepting the Parana and Uruguay: therefore takes to
  pass, and just this day I traveled the Miguelistas.
  
  28. The next day, a big rain, passed with difficulty the
  Luisistas, and the Johannine, and still wait for relief of their
  own, determined to go through the last squad, and so impaired
  on Monday with the same rain, the dark about forded by swimming,
shoulder their stuff.

  
  
  29. By this time, last Sunday, our scouts, à who ordered security
  lookout for the field, found five Lorenza explorers who came after
  the Royals eve. Also said his men went on a river few miles
  distant from here, and that they also had to be fellow soldiers
  on the road. One of these, à la first night when all were
  asleep near the forest, arrived badly wounded in the face by
  a tiger: curósele, and having been sent to people, the others
  went their own to warn the army's arrival.
  

  30. On Tuesday, having dispelled the hail and fog, walked
  eight miles from the shores of Rio yagi up Curutuy River, and
  there encamped within sight of a rock of Mount San Miguel, called
  the Washing by Ibiticaray. The figure of this rock is quite remarkable,
  because as from its roots rises gently, suddenly rises to
  summit, and the ending is way to straighten wall.

  
  
  31. Wednesday April 22, but was wrong with garua and clouds, overlooking
  the banks of the river, we found grown in such Fortunately, not
  having at other times just five steps width of the bridge was essential
to throw, was due extended to include sixty.

  The bridge was made with poles stuck in the stream, these poles
  secured with rods, and these intertwined others along, and so
  gave way to the people. For this bridge, made all haste to the
  four parts artillery were transported primarily on the shoulders
  of Indians, and then the whole train of arms and horses, would
  have seen with laughter to an Indian boy go to the other party
  dog on his shoulders. But the most difficult and work was troops
  passing horses, oxen and cows, which were more than 3.000,
  for as the stream was rapid, and village in the middle of many weeds
  and small trees, to those who swam, or at all the snatch, or tangles,
and also the Sorbian and drowned.

  They threw it into the creek, by both sides, twenty swimmers,
  that impelled, forced to gather and voices hands to the horses,
  mules and other animals, until, that all that had passed many
  river. At noon it was already egército all the other band, and
  even walked the same day two or three leagues, when he had already
  fields, 30 Lorenza who followed the army, increased somewhat,
  but less than expected.

  
  32. He continued after the feast of San Marcos, and is invoked
  help of all the inhabitants of heaven, with the mass and litanies
  that are customary in the church, into the canopy or flag,
  because the long hay or grass, rain and storm all night, stopped
  the procession, and because still threatening clouds a coming storm.
  So noon were separated, but the measures taken military, but a dense
  mist moistened the earth, walked three miles, and maybe four.
  This evening the army maintained in real, because the explorers
  were sent before yesterday had not returned. The same supreme
  captain had determined to go and look, and having found after
  nightfall, and realize what pedidoles they had seen, nothing certain
  digeron, but almost this place and the sight was the enemy. Tonight,
  and Later, he became silent trumpets and boxes, so that the enemy
  did not feel the coming of the army, also the star called Sirius
  calmed the night, and also the next day.
  
  33. At break of this day will be walked nearly three miles, because
  had been moving forward, if not the army unwary too close to the
  enemy, and submit to his view: fijáronse the real ones, not in a
  circle as usual, but two lines, in order of battle, only two miles
  distant of opposites. Having been sent by the Blue River above
  towards the north, some probing the waters, in case they ford should
  find an easier, because it really not advisable to spend by the new
step, nor for which they had fortified Portuguese sentinel, so that
in this way the enemy was undertaken more unexpectedly, and all the
troops vadease unobstructed river and disgust, more easily and comfortably.

  Also some cowboys were for about a mile and rover to half the
  strength of the enemy, so Distaso only half a mile, across
  a corner or cove forest. It was learned that he had left his
  first situation, and burned the first huts or shacks, had
  located slightly above, on a hill full of mountains, which,
  the part that looks and plays the two rivers, PHAC and Blue
  running around at an angle to the forest soil showed towards
  the plain, but this was fortified with a stockade from one
  end of the forest to the opposite: in the medium they saw poles
  stuck in the land for ranching, and some sheds of all finishes.
  There was also shooting a shotgun, while exploring these
  things, but not signal was judged enemy were lookouts.
  It was also seen in the field, this part of the river, entered a
  high tufted, something that flowed quickly: it was suspected spy
  enemy, but others judged most likely the ostrich. After vespers,
  he found himself no longer had to sustain army but a little dried
  meat cooked, so that no had food but for a day, by no providence
  Indians are accustomed.

  It is ordered that the following day typically ship a messenger
  to bring cattle, and in the meantime diminuyese rations to the
  troops. This provision, HOWEVER, could not be enough for the army
  for some days no starve. At the site of the watchtower or lookout
  was maintained, with some picked men, the same captain Sepé, miguelista.

34.
  He entered the night with a horrible looking towards the South:
  any frigidísima was, and also the next day, April 27: with returned
  all browsers that had gone by the two part. These digeron, saw
  no movement in the border none of the enemy. Those assurances that
  the private sector that is had found was not far from the rivers,
  or the site the enemy. At dawn, then he leaned towards there all
  army, and opening the way with axes through the forest, which
  is on either side, moved to noon the real back to the place,
  leaving behind only a few patients, with the custodian
  of their souls, or priest.
  
  35. Day 28 (Sunday) the whole army was busy putting together a
  bridge, as it was done in the river Washing, although this was
  greater, and required the work of an entire day. Meanwhile,
  took all the horses to a valley, which is amenity extends along
  the banks of the Rio Verde, and also posed there the shepherd of
  their souls, with others, that they might insurance. By putting
  the moon in the most untimely of the night, marched against the
  payment of the Portuguese, moved to four houses, killed two
  black, having escaped in the forest two Portuguese immediately
  with their wives, who's there went to the fortress to give notice
  of the enemy that rushing: the enemy also took a party of horse
  grazing in the same place, leaving one dead Lorenza. Besides
  this, the dawn came to the strength, making them the easiest
  access fog, and what was admirable, it being clear elsewhere on
  strong, was thicker for the watching and snares from the top,
  which gave hope of victory.
   Men will love to the last, but they love what is fresh
and new. A woman's love can live on the recollection of the past, and cling to what is old
and ugly. "What an episode!" said Lady Glencora, when the unwelcome visitor was gone;--"but
it's odd how much less dreadful things are than you think they will be. I was frightened when
I heard her name; but you see we've got through it without much harm." The enemy meanwhile was arrested four days following payment
  or stay, such Ibicuá, partly by rain, some for other reasons.
  Although he was already so near the enemy could not persuade enough
  Indians save your stuff. Finally morning joined the Michael
  to take the most precious jewels of the temple to Piratini
  the courage, to a chapel made of lawns, a old people, and this
  occasion was persuaded to the same San Lorenzo, and then the
  Johannine and angel. But carried the slack these things, and not
  farther than the two leagues in town.
  
  112.

  On the 10th of May, the enemy approached the river, but received
  with the artillery that was hidden in the jungle were killed,
  as they say, 64, including in this issue the Gentiles killed in
  encounters. However, moved forward, backward which defended
  the banks the creek.
  

  113. On day 11, entering some other Nicole soldiers the people of
  San Miguel, got all the sex and age people weaker, and so left
  the women and almost all children, to be scattered over the fields
  towards the Piratini.

  
  114. Day 12. Having the enemy encamped in the quarries of people,
  nearly three miles distant from him, and now in sight, the nightfall,
  PP. the town of San Miguel were also fled to the Piratini, not
  saving any of the people San Miguel, but hidden here and there,
  and buried things went. Then she told
him he had ever lived as a great nobleman ought to live. 

  Moreover Gomez Freyre had been caught in the forests of Yacuì, where
  he learned Andonaegui withdrawal, while rebels, whose greatest
  hatred was against the Portuguese, were à challenge to the Rio Pardo.
  