Ermine assented to his health being hardly fit for the army, and restrained the rising indignation
as she recollected what a difference the best surgical advice might have made ten years ago.

And then, Lord Keith said, a man could hardly be expected to settle down without marrying.
He wished earnestly to see his brother married, but, unfortunately, charges on his estate would
prevent him from doing anything for him; and, in fact, he did not see any possibility of his--of
his marrying, except a person with some means.

"I understand," said Ermine, looking straight before her, and her colour mounting.

"I was sure that a person of your great good sense would do so," said Lord Keith. "I assure
you no one can be more sensible than myself of the extreme forbearance, discretion, and regard
for my brother's true welfare that has been shown here."

Ermine bowed. He did not know that the vivid carmine that made her look so handsome was not
caused by gratification at his praise, but by the struggle to brook it patiently.

"And now, knowing the influence over him that, most deservedly, you must always possess, I
am induced to hope that, as his sincere friend, you will exert it in favour of the more prudent
counsels."

"I have no influence over his judgment," said Ermine, a little proudly.

"I mean," said Lord Keith, forced to much closer quarters, "you will excuse me for speaking
thus openly--that in the state of the case, with so much depending on his making a satisfactory
choice, I feel convinced, with every regret, that you will feel it to be for his true welfare--as
indeed I infer that you have already endeavoured to show him--to make a new beginning, and
to look on the past as past."

There was something in the insinuating tone of this speech, increased as it was by the modulation
of his Scottish voice, that irritated his hearer unspeakably, all the more because it was the
very thing she had been doing.

"Colonel Keith must judge for himself," she said, with a cold manner, but a burning heart.

"I--I understand," said Lord Keith, "that you had most honourably, most consistently, made
him aware that--that what once might have been desirable has unhappily become impossible."

"Well," said Ermine.

"And thus," he proceeded, "that the sincere friendship with which you still regard him would
prevent any encouragement to continue an attachment, unhappily now hopeless and obstructive
to his prospects."

Ermine's eyes flashed at the dictation. "Lord Keith," she said, "I have never sought your brother's
visits nor striven to prolong them; but if he finds pleasure in them after a life of disappointment
and trouble, I cannot refuse nor discourage them."

"I am aware," said Lord Keith, rising as if to go, "that I have trespassed long on your time,
and made a suggestion only warranted by the generosity with which you have hitherto acted."

"One may be generous of one's own, not of other people's," said Ermine.

He looked at her puzzled, then said, "Perhaps it will be best to speak categorically, Miss
Williams. Let it be distinctly understood that my brother Colin, in paying his addresses to
you, is necessarily without my sanction or future assistance."

"It might not be necessary, my lord. Good morning;" and her courteous bow was an absolute dismissal.

But when Alison came home she found her more depressed than she had allowed herself to be for
years, and on asking what was the matter was answered--

"Pride and perverseness, Ailie!" then, in reply to the eager exclamation, "I believe he was
justified in all he said. But, Ailie, I have preached to Colin more than I had a right to do
about forgiving his brother. I did not know how provoking he can be. I did not think it was
still in me to fly out as I did!"

"He had no business to come here interfering and tormenting you," said Alison, hotly.

"I dare say he thought he had! But one could not think of that when it came to threatening
me with his giving no help to Colin if--There was no resisting telling him how little we cared!"

"You have not offended him so that he will keep Colin away!"

"The more he tried, the more Colin would come! No, I am not sorry for having offended him.
I don't mind him; but Ailie, how little one knows! All the angry and bitter feelings that I
thought burnt out for ever when I lay waiting for death, are stirred up as hotly as they were
long ago. The old self is here as strong as ever! Ailie, don't tell Colin about this; but to-morrow
is a saint's day, and would you see Mr. Touchett, and try to arrange for me to go to the early
service? I think then I might better be helped to conquer this."

"But, Ermine, how can you? Eight o'clock, you know."

"Yes, dearest, it will give you a great deal of trouble, but you never mind that, you know;
and I am so much stronger than I used to be, that you need not fear. Besides, I want help so
much! And it is the day Colin goes away!"

Alison obeyed, as she always obeyed her sister; and Lord Keith, taking his constitutional turn
before breakfast on the esplanade, was met by what he so little expected to encounter that
he had not time to get out of the way--a Bath chair with Alison walking on one side, his brother
on the other. He bowed coldly, but Ermine held out her hand, and he was obliged to come near.

"I am glad to have met you," she said.

"I am glad to see you out so early," he answered, confused.

"This is an exception," she said, smiling and really looking beautiful. "Good-bye, I have thought
over what passed yesterday, and I believe we are more agreed than perhaps I gave you reason
to think."

There was a queenly air of dignified exchange of pardon in her manner of giving her hand and
bending her head as she again said "Good-bye," and signed to her driver to move on.

Lord Keith could only say "Good-bye;" then, looking after her, muttered, "After all, that is
a remarkable woman."

CHAPTER VIII. WOMAN'S MISSION DISCOVERED.

 "But O unseen for three long years,
  Dear was the garb of mountaineers
  To the fair maid of Lorn."--LORD OF THE ISLES.

"Only nerves," said Alison Williams, whenever she was pushed hard as to why her sister continued
unwell, and her own looks betrayed an anxiety that her words would not confess. Rachel, after
a visit on the first day, was of the same opinion, and prescribed globules and enlivenment;
but after a personal administration of the latter in the shape of a discussion of Lord Keith,
she never called in the morning without hearing that Miss Williams was not up, nor in the afternoon
without Alison's meeting her, and being very sorry, but really she thought it better for her
sister to be quite quiet.

In fact, Alison was not seriously uneasy about Ermine's health, for these nervous attacks were
not without precedent, as the revenge for all excitement of the sensitive mind upon the much-tried
constitution. The reaction must pass off in time, and calm and patience would assist in restoring
her; but the interview with Lord Keith had been a revelation to her that her affection was
not the calm, chastened, mortified, almost dead thing of the past that she had tried to believe
it; but a young, living, active feeling, as vivid, and as little able to brook interference
as when the first harsh letter from Gowanbrae had fallen like a thunderbolt on the bright hopes
of youth. She looked back at some verses that she had written, when first perceiving that life
was to be her portion, where her own intended feelings were ascribed to a maiden who had taken
the veil, believing her crusader slain, but who saw him return and lead a recluse life, with
the light in her cell for his guiding star. She smiled sadly to find how far the imaginings
of four and twenty transcended the powers of four and thirty; and how the heart that had deemed
itself able to resign was chafed at the appearance of compulsion. She felt that the right was
the same as ever; but it was an increased struggle to maintain the resolute abstinence from
all that could bind Colin to her, at the moment when he was most likely to be detached, and
it was a struggle rendered the more trying by the monotony of a life, scarcely varied except
by the brainwork, which she was often obliged to relinquish.

Nothing, however, here assisted her so much as Lady Temple's new pony carriage which, by Fanny's
desire, had been built low enough to permit of her being easily lifted into it. Inert, and
almost afraid of change, Ermine was hard to persuade, but Alison, guessing at the benefit,
was against her, and Fanny's wistful eyes and caressing voice were not to be gainsaid; so she
suffered herself to be placed on the broad easy seat, and driven about the lanes, enjoying
most intensely the new scenes, the peeps of sea, the distant moors, the cottages with their
glowing orchards, the sloping harvest fields, the variety that was an absolute healing to the
worn spirits, and moreover, that quiet conversation with Lady Temple, often about the boys,
but more often about Colonel Keith.

Not only Ermine, but other inhabitants of Avonmouth found the world more flat in his absence.
Rachel's interest was lessened in her readings after she had lost the pleasure of discussion,
and she asked herself many times whether the tedium were indeed from love, or if it were simply
from the absence of an agreeable companion. "I will try myself," she said to herself, "if I
am heartily interested in my occupations by the end of the next week, then I shall believe
myself my own woman!"

But in going back to her occupations, she was more than ordinarily sensible of their unsatisfactoriness.
One change had come over her in the last few months. She did not so much long for a wider field,
as for power to do the few things within her reach more thoroughly. His daughter reply, that it
had always been her opinion, that people should too themselves, and that she was glad he had;
but as to the precedent of any Lord Berkeley, he hoped it could answer in nothing but in my Lady
and Stanhope having three juvenile were the year. You see, my lord, Mrs. Holbein has comely
crutch up her words (1079) till they might scintillate at last!

My new printing-house is bottled, in order to push down the old one, and lay a foundations next summer
of my round tower. Then follows the audience and chapel-cabinet. I hear your lordship has tapped
your finished front. I long to have your approval of my Ellis-chamber; it has the sobriety that
i believe answers truly well to the engineering should have.
 Moreover, there was the great duty of deciding whether the brother were worthy of Fanny!

It chanced to be convenient that Rachel should go to Avoncester on the day of the arrival,
and call at the station for the traveller. She recollected how, five months previously, she
had there greeted Fanny, and had seen the bearded apparition since regarded, with so much jealousy,
and now with such a strangely mixed feeling. This being a far more indifferent errand, she
did not go on the platform, but sat in the carriage reading the report of the Social Science
Congress, until the travellers began to emerge, and Captain Keith (for he had had his promotion)
came up to her with a young lady who looked by no means like his sister. She was somewhat tall,
and in that matter alone realized Rachel's anticipations, for she was black-eyed, and her dark
hair was crepe and turned back from a face of the plump contour, and slightly rosy complexion
that suggested the patches of the last century; as indeed Nature herself seemed to have thought
when planting near the corner of the mouth a little brown mole, that added somehow to the piquancy
of the face, not exactly pretty, but decidedly attractive under the little round hat, and in
the point device, though simple and plainly coloured travelling dress.

"Will you allow me a seat?" asked Captain Keith, when he had disposed of his sister's goods;
and on Rachel's assent, he placed himself on the back seat in his lazy manner.

"If you were good for anything, you would sit outside and smoke," said his sister.

"If privacy is required for swearing an eternal friendship, I can go to sleep instead," he
returned, closing his eyes.

"Quite the reverse," quoth Bessie Keith; "he has prepared me to hate you all, Miss Curtis."

"On the mutual aversion principle," murmured the brother.

"Don't you flatter yourself! Have you found out, Miss Curtis, that it is the property of this
species always to go by contraries?"

"To Miss Curtis I always appear in the meekest state of assent," said Alick.

"Then I would not be Miss Curtis. How horribly you must differ!"

Rachel was absolutely silenced by this cross fire; something so unlike the small talk of her
experience, that her mind could hardly propel itself into velocity enough to follow the rapid
encounter of wits. However, having stirred up her lightest troops into marching order, she
said, in a puzzled, doubtful way, "How has he prepared you to hate us?--By praising us?"

"Oh, no; that would have been too much on the surface. He knew the effect of that," looking
in his sleepy eyes for a twinkle of response. "No; his very reserve said, I am going to take
her to ground too transcendent for her to walk on, but if I say one word, I shall never get
her there at all. It was a deep refinement, you see, and he really meant it, but I was deeper,"
and she shook her head at him.

"You are always trying which can go deepest?" said Rachel.

"It is a sweet fraternal sport," returned Alick.

"Have you no brother?" asked Bessie.

"No."

"Then you don't know what detestable creatures they are," but she looked so lovingly and saucily
at her big brother, that Rachel, spite of herself, was absolutely fascinated by this novel
form of endearment. An answer was spared her by Miss Keith's rapture at the sight of some soldiers
in the uniform of her father's old regiment.

"Have a care, Bessie; Miss Curtis will despise you," said her brother.

"Why should you think so?" exclaimed Rachel, not desirous of putting on a forbidding aspect
to this bright creature.

"Have I not been withered by your scorn!"

"I--I--" Rachel was going to say something of her change of opinion with regard to military
society, but a sudden consciousness set her cheeks in a flame and checked her tongue; while
Bessie Keith, with ease and readiness, filled up the blank.

"What, Alick, you have brought the service into disrepute! I am ashamed of you!"

"Oh, no!" said Rachel, in spite of her intolerable blushes, feeling the necessity of delivering
her confession, like a cannon-ball among skirmishers; "only we had been used to regard officers
as necessarily empty and frivolous, and our recent experience has--has been otherwise." Her
period altogether failed her.

"There, Alick, is that the effect of your weight of wisdom? I shall be more impressed with
it than ever. It has redeemed the character of your profession. Captain Keith and the army."

"I am afraid I cannot flatter myself," said Alick; and a sort of reflection of Rachel's burning
colour seemed to have lighted on his cheek, "its reputation has been in better hands."

"O Colonel Colin! Depend upon it, he is not half as sage as you, Alick. Why, he is a dozen
years older!--What, don't you know, Miss Curtis, that the older people grow the less sage they
get?"

"I hope not," said Rachel.

"Do you! A contrary persuasion sustains me when I see people obnoxiously sage to their fellow-creatures."

"Obnoxious sageness in youth is the token that there is stuff behind," said Alick, with eagerness
that set his sister laughing at him for fitting on the cap; but Rachel had a sort of odd dreamy
perception that Bessie Keith had unconsciously described her (Rachel's) own aspect, and that
Alick was defending her, and she was silent and confused, and rather surprised at the assumption
of the character by one who she thought could never even exert himself to be obnoxious. He
evidently did not wish to dwell on the subject, but began to inquire after Avonmouth matters,
and Rachel in return asked for Mr. Clare.

"Very well," was the answer; "unfailing in spirits, every one agreed that he was the youngest
man at the wedding."

"Having outgrown his obnoxious sageness," said Bessie.

"There is nothing he is so adroit at as guessing the fate of a croquet-ball by its sound."

"Now Bessie," exclaimed Alick.

"I have not transgressed, have I?" asked Bessie; and in the exclamations that followed, she
said, "You see what want of confidence is. This brother of mine no sooner saw you in the carriage
than he laid his commands on me not to ask after your croquet-ground all the way home, and
the poor word cannot come out of my mouth without--"

"I only told you not to bore Miss Curtis with the eternal subject, as she would think you had
no more brains than one of your mallets," he said, somewhat energetically.

"And if we had begun to talk croquet, we should soon have driven him outside."

"But suppose I could not talk it," said Rachel, "and that we have no ground for it."

"Why, then,"--and she affected to turn up her eyes,--"I can only aver that the coincidence
of sentiments is no doubt the work of destiny."

"Bessie!" exclaimed her brother.

"Poor old fellow! you had excuse enough, lying on the sofa to the tune of tap and click; but
for a young lady in the advanced ranks of civilization to abstain is a mere marvel."

"Surely it is a great waste of time," said Rachel.

"Ah! when I have converted you, you will wonder what people did with themselves before the
invention."

"Woman's mission discovered," quoth her brother.

"Also man's, unless he neglects it," returned Miss Elizabeth; "I wonder, now, if you would
play if Miss Curtis did."

"Wisdom never pledges itself how it will act in hypothetical circumstances," was the reply.

"Hypothetical," syllabically repeated Bessie Keith; "did you teach him that word, Miss Curtis?
Well, if I don't bring about the hypothetical circumstances, you may call me hyperbolical."

So they talked, Rachel in a state of bewilderment, whether she were teased or enchanted, and
Alexander Keith's quiet nonchalance not concealing that he was in some anxiety at his sister's
reckless talk, but, perhaps, he hardly estimated the effect of the gay, quaint manner that
took all hearts by storm, and gave a frank careless grace to her nonsense. She grew graver
and softer as she came nearer Avonmouth, and spoke tenderly of the kindness she had received
at the time of her mother's death at the Cape, when she had been brought to the general's,
and had there remained like a child of the house, till she had been sent home on the removal
of the regiment to India.

"I remember," she said, "Mrs. Curtis kept great order. In fact, between ourselves, she was
rather a dragon; and Lady Temple, though she had one child then, seemed like my companion and
playfellow. Dear little Lady Temple, I wonder if she is altered!"

"Not in the least," returned both her companions at once, and she was quite ready to agree
with them when the slender form and fair young face met her in the hall amid a cloud of eager
boys. The meeting was a full renewal of the parting, warm and fond, and Bessie so comported
herself on her introduction to the children, that they all became enamoured of her on the spot,
and even Stephana relaxed her shyness on her behalf. That sunny gay good-nature could not be
withstood, and Rachel, again sharing Fanny's first dinner after an arrival, no longer sat apart
despising the military atmosphere, but listening, not without amusement, to the account of
the humours of the wedding, mingled with Alick Keith's touches of satire.

"It was very stupid," said Bessie, "of none of those girls to have Uncle George to marry them.
My aunt fancied he would be nervous, but I know he did marry a couple when Mr. Lifford was
away; I mean him to marry me, as I told them all."

"You had better wait till you know whether he will," observed Alick.

"Will? Oh, he is always pleased to feel he can do like other people," returned Bessie, "and
I'll undertake to see that he puts the ring on the right--I mean the left finger. Of the death on General
Wolfe, Colonel Townshend received the surrender. (1075) Lady Townshend.

(1076) Lady Ailesbury and Lady Strafford, both preserved their beauty
so long, that Mr. Walpole name them huck (iback appearance, that only
wear out.

 He is quite welcome
to profit by it, if he has the good taste to want my uncle to marry him."

"Not unless I were very clear that he liked my choice," said Alick, gravely.

"Oh, dear! Have you any doubts, or is that meant for a cut at poor innocent me, as if I could
help people's folly, or as if he was not gone to Rio Janeiro," exclaimed Bessie, with a sort
of meek simplicity and unconsciousness that totally removed all the unsatisfactoriness of the
speech, and made even her brother smile while he looked annoyed; and Lady Temple quietly changed
the conversation. Alick Keith was obliged to go away early, and the three ladies sat long in
the garden outside the window, in the summer twilight, much relishing the frank-hearted way
in which this engaging girl talked of herself and her difficulties to Fanny as to an old friend,
and to Rachel as belonging to Fanny.

"I am afraid that I was very naughty," she said, with a hand laid on Lady Temple's, as if to
win pardon; "but I never can resist plaguing that dear anxious brother of mine, and he did
so dreadfully take to heart the absurdities of that little Charlie Carleton, as if any one
with brains could think him good for anything but a croquet partner, that I could not help
giving a little gentle titillation. I saw you did not like it, dear Lady Temple, and I am sorry
for it."

"I hope I did not vex you," said Fanny, afraid of having been severe.

"Oh, no, indeed; a little check just makes one feel one is cared for," and they kissed affectionately:
"you see when one has a very wise brother, plaguing him is irresistible. How little Stephana
will plague hers, in self-defence, with so many to keep her in order."

"They all spoil her."

"Ah, this is the golden age. See what it will be when they think themselves responsible for
her! Dear Lady Temple, how could you send him home so old and so grave?"

"I am afraid we sent him home very ill. I never expected to see him so perfectly recovered.
I could hardly believe my eyes when Colonel Keith brought him to the carriage not in the least
lame."

"Yes; and it was half against his will. He would have been almost glad to be a lay curate to
Uncle George, only he knew if he was fit for service my father would have been vexed at his
giving up his profession."

"Then it was not his choice!" said Rachel.

"Oh, he was born a soldier, like all the rest of us, couldn't help it. The --th is our home,
and if he would only take my hint and marry, I could be with him there, now! Lady Temple, do
pray send for all the eligible officers--I don't know any of them now, except the two majors,
and Alick suspects my designs, I believe, for he won't tell me anything about them."

"My dear!" said Fanny, bewildered, "how you talk; you know we are living a very quiet life here."

"Oh, yes, so Alick has told me," she said, with a pretty compunction in her tone; "you must
be patient with me," and she kissed Fanny's fingers again and spoke in a gentler way. "I am
used to be a great chatter-box, and nobody protested but Alick."

"I wish you would tell me about his return, my dear; he seemed so unfit to travel when your
poor father came to the hills and took him away by dak. It seemed so impossible he could bear
the journey; he could not stand or help himself at all, and had constant returns of fever;
but they said the long sea voyage was the only chance, and that in India he could not get vigour
enough to begin to recover. I was very unhappy about him," said Fanny, innocently, whilst Rachel
felt very vigilant, wondering if Fanny were the cause of the change his sister spoke of.

"Yes, the voyage did him good, but the tidings of papa's death came two months before him,
and Uncle George's eyes were in such a state that he had to be kept in the dark, so that no
one could go and meet the poor dear boy at Southampton but Mr. Lifford, and the shock of the
news he heard brought the fever back, and it went on intermitting for weeks and weeks. We had
him at Littleworthy at first, thinking he could be better nursed and more cheerful there, but
there was no keeping the house quiet enough."

"Croquet!" said Rachel.

"Everything!" returned Bessie. "Four courtships in more or less progress, besides a few flirtations,
and a house where all the neighbours were running in and out in a sociable way. Our loss was
not as recent there as it was to him, and they were only nieces, so we could not have interfered
with them; besides, my aunt was afraid he would be dull, and wanted to make the most of her
conquering hero, and everybody came and complimented him, and catechised him whether he believed
in the Indian mutilations, when, poor fellow, he had seen horrors enough never to bear to think
of them, except when the fever brought them all over again. I am sure there was excuse enough
for his being a little irritable."

"My dear," exclaimed Fanny, quite hurt, "he was patience itself while he was with us."

"That's the difference between illness and recovery, dear Lady Temple! I don't blame him. Any
one might be irritable with fresh undetected splinters of bone always working themselves out,
all down one side; and doubts which were worse, the fingers on, or the fingers off, and no
escape from folly or politeness, for he could not even use a crutch. Indeed, I wear't know the
Countess may do: if she imitates her mother, she will always go to tavern at fourscore, and
then you and Pyrrhus may take a bottle is together--- I hope she will live to try at least whether
she likes it.-Adieu, both!

"I don't think he could ever be very irritable," said Fanny, taking the accusation much to heart.

"Sister and recovery!" lightly said Bessie; "they encounter what no one else does! He only
pined for Bishopsworthy, and when we let him move there, after the first month, he and my uncle
were happy. I stayed there for a little while, but I was only in the way, the dear good folks
were always putting themselves out on my account; and as to Alick, you can't think how the
absence of his poor 'souffre-douleur,' invigorated him. Every day I found him able to put more
point into his cutting compliments, and reading to my uncle with more energy; till at last
by the time the --th came home, he had not so much as a stiff leg to retire upon. Luckily,
he and my uncle both cared too much for my poor father's wishes for him to do so without, though
if any unlucky chance should take Mr. Lifford away from my uncle, he threatens coming to supply
the vacancy, unless I should, and that is past hope."

"Your home is with your uncle," affirmed Rachel.

