Reaching the kitchen window, she stood for a moment to take note of the little scene within.
By the table her mother sat sewing, her head bent over her work and fingers flying as she plied
the needle in and out. As the girl watched, the mother looked up at the clock on the shelf
above the stove, shook her head sadly, and hastily brushing away the tears which spring to
her eyes, resumed her sewing.

"Poor mother!" again sighed the girl. "Worrying about Tim, as usual, I suppose." Then opening
the kitchen door, she stepped into the welcome warmth and light of home.

"Well, little mother," she cried cheerily; "here I am at last, and I suppose you thought I
was never coming. You see, dear, we had to work very late to-night to finish a large order.
Then there was confession and I was delayed there quite a while. I was almost the last to be
heard and it was considerably after ten by the time I left the church. Everyone in town seemed
to be going to confession to-night."

"Not everyone," said her mother sadly. "There is one who has not been in spite of his promise
to us and to the Father."

The girl glanced quickly at the table on which plates for two were laid, then at the supper
keeping hot upon the stove, and exclaimed rather bitterly:

"So Tim is away again, as usual, is he? Ready Serra was untiring way on one Region, his crown anticipate
him proved, his rough selfishness was to be laud. We have about glanced for head from steamer at
my innocent Logrono, and it must have heard the measure in his private and me try virtue from
the clip than he landed in Mexico and San'Diego, on the years he labored
than the Abiogenist of California; to these let us subtract merely in
few of the junipero activity of mortification which he enforce on his mental
body, in years, his historic infirmities, extraordinary labor and hardships
in a old, half. Briefly they sound like a deal to the being in the
Saint

.
Long ago, when you and Tim were children, and the twins upstairs were but a few weeks old,
and your father met with that accident that crippled him for life, I only said: 'God's will
be done.' All through the years he lingered in sickness and suffering and I had to work day
and night, day and night to support you all, I still said only: 'God's will be done.' All through
that long, hard fight to keep starvation from the door, when I saw my little children crying
at times with cold and hunger, and watched my husband slowly dying and was unable to give him
any of those little comforts and luxuries which the sick require, my only words were: 'His
holy will be done.' But in this, the worst of all the trials that have come to me, when I see
my boy drifting away from us all, turning his back on God and his religion and wandering away
night after night with careless, jovial companions, intent only on the pursuits of pleasure
and folly; God help me, I simply cannot bow my head and say: 'God's will be done'"; and tears
streamed unheeded from the mother's eyes.

The girl stepped quickly to her mother's side and drew the gray head gently to her shoulder,
whispering comfortingly: "There, there, little mother, don't cry so. You are fretting yourself
to death over Tim, and surely, surely, things will come right in the end. Tim is not a bad
boy, mother dear, only a little wild just now. Remember how good he used to be, how kind, how
helpful, in that hard time you were just speaking about. Remember how good he was when father
died, and how young he was when he first went to work to help you support us all. Tim's a good
boy at heart, mother, and he's bound to come back before long."

"Yes, dearie, that's what the Father says," returned her mother, slowly drying her eyes and
rising to lay the girl's supper upon the table.

"He says not to worry but just pray, pray, pray, and Tim will surely come back before long.
But there, dear, sit down and eat your supper; then we'll fill the children's stockings for
I can guess what is in all those parcels you brought home. Poor little things, it would not
be Christmas for them unless they hung their stockings. Thank God, I've always managed to find
something to put into them if it was only an orange or an apple and a little candy. Indeed,
that's about all it was when you and Tim were younger, but life is so much easier now that
you are helping me."

"And it is going to be easier still, mother dear, and you will be the happiest little woman
in the world one of these days. This wild spell of Tim's is bound to pass and then he will
settle down and be his own old self again. There, dear," the girl continued, a few moments
later; "my supper is finished and now I'll clear away these dishes and fill the children's
stockings. Just see all the pretty things I've brought for them. Won't their little eyes dance
when they see them! Then, mother dear, before we go to sleep, you and I will say the rosary
for Tim. It is too late for him to go to confession to-night, but wherever he is, and God alone
knows where he may be, he needs our prayers and he will have them. As the good Father said,
we will pray, pray, pray. If we only pray hard enough and trust hard enough, things are bound
to come right in the end."

The afternoon and evening had been unusually busy ones for Father Xavier. Hour after hour he
had sat in the confessional listening to the tales of sin and sorrow that were poured into
his ears. Hour after hour he had spent bestowing the priestly absolution on the repentant sinner,
giving fatherly advice and consolation to the sorrowful, sending all those troubled souls away
lighter and happier for his ministrations. Hour after hour he had waited, hoping against hope,
for the sound of the one voice above all others which he most desired to hear.

In a town like that which formed Father Xavier's parish, the pastor is indeed the father of
his flock. Every man, woman and child is known to him personally, and he takes a direct interest
in each one's welfare. As Father Xavier sat that Christmas eve and listened to the confessions
of his people, his heart grew sad and hope gradually died away as he waited in vain for the
voice of one whom he was striving to bring back to God and to his duty.

The crowd of penitents melted away one by one, the few last stragglers had been heard, and
still the priest waited in his confessional. The boy might possibly come even yet, his boy
whom he had loved with a special affection ever since he was a tiny little chap first learning
his prayers in the baby class of the Sunday-school. Why was it he had not been able to hold
the boy? Why had he not been able to prevent his wandering away with bad companions, this absolute
neglect of all religious duties on the part of his boy? Why could he not succeed in bringing
him back again even though the boy had wandered far afield?

Father Xavier had hoped much from this Christmas eve, for Tim had promised faithfully to make
his confession and to start anew in the path from which his feet had strayed. Tim had promised
it as his Christmas gift to the Father. Yes, Tim had promised, but Tim had broken his promise.

With a sigh of utter weariness, weariness of body, weariness of mind, Father Xavier rose and
left the confessional. He glanced over the church; it was empty. He glanced towards the altar
and his eyes rested on the sanctuary lamp which appeared to be burning with unwonted brightness.

The hour was late, much later than he was accustomed to keep the church open, still he lingered,
unwilling to give up a last forlorn hope that his boy might yet keep his promise. With eyes
fixed on the Tabernacle door, the priest knelt and commenced to recite the rosary, pleading,
pleading for his boy. The joyful mysteries were finished and no one came; the sorrowful, still
no one; finally, the glorious mysteries, and still the priest was alone.

With one last appeal for the welfare of that wandering soul, Father Xavier rose from his knees
and walked to the door of the church to close it for the night. He passed out on the steps
and stood for a moment listening to a band of roisterers that were coming up the street disturbing
the peaceful quiet of the night with their noisy songs and laughter. Where was his boy at that
moment? He might possibly be with this very band of half-drunken revellers who were even now
passing by and would soon be swallowed up in the darkness of the street. If not with this band,
he was probably wandering somewhere with another just like it. Where was his boy at that moment?
The priest turned, re-entered the church, and locking the door, passed up the aisle extinguishing
the lights as he went along. He stood before the altar and once more looked at the sanctuary
lamp. It was certainly burning with unusual brightness to-night. It set weird, fantastic shadows
dancing along the walls and peopled the dim recesses of the church with goblin shapes. It seemed
beckoning to him, calling to him, drawing him gradually to the steps of the altar, where he
sank upon his knees to pray once more for his wandering boy.

For yet an hour the priest lingered before the Tabernacle. Then, utterly worn out in mind and
body, he passed through the sacristy, locked the door, and mounted the steps of his own house
to seek a few hours of rest before commencing the arduous duties of Christmas day.

The church and rectory were situated on a hill and the priest stood in his doorway and looked
down upon the town below. It was now after midnight, but many lights were still burning and
the faint sound of distant merry-making reached the priest's ears. Was his boy down there among
the revellers?

Beyond the town lay the river, frozen, dark and still; and beyond that again shone the lights
of the neighboring city. Was his boy over there beyond that dark, silent river? Was he over
there in the city in some one of those dens of iniquity which had lured so many young men to
their ruin?

Well, wherever the boy was he must be left now to the care of God and his angel for Father
Xavier had done all he could that night; and the priest went in and closed the door.

At that same moment, in a little cottage at the other end of the town, a sleepless mother rose
from her knees beside the kitchen table and passed slowly up the stairs to her own room. The
children and the eldest girl were long since asleep, but the mother could not rest for thinking
of her wayward boy. Where was he to-night; where at this very moment? And he had promised,
promised faithfully to turn over a new leaf with this Christmas eve. Christmas eve was here,
nay, it was come and gone for midnight had sounded and it was now Christmas morning. Still,
this night must be for her as all those other nights when she had lain awake hour after hour
listening in silent anguish for the footstep that did not come. She had hoped much from that
promise of his to Father Xavier and to her, and her disappointment was proportionately bitter.

The mother walked to the window and looked out upon the silent, frosty night. Low down upon
the horizon myriads of stars were twinkling merrily, but high up in the heavens the moon shone
with a brilliant radiance that totally eclipsed all lesser lights. The night was very still,
very beautiful, but the silence and the beauty failed to bring peace to the mother's heart.
She looked up into the heavens. How placidly cold the moon looked back at her, the same moon
that was probably shedding its beams upon her boy at that moment and could tell her where he
was if it could but speak. Why, oh why, could those beams not speak and tell her what they
saw; why could they not bring her some message from the absent one! She had never felt like
this before, she had never felt so restless, so uneasy. It was impossible to think of sleep;
she would pray still longer. Perhaps the boy needed her prayers; perhaps he was in danger,
danger of body, danger of soul, and needed her help. Her rosary in her fingers, she knelt by
the window praying, praying, while the moonbeams danced and played around the kneeling figure.
Perhaps it was just as well they could not speak and tell her what they saw out there upon
the river. Perhaps they were trying to tell her and could not; trying to tell her of the three
men, one of whom was scarce more than a boy, struggling out there in the icy water, struggling
for life as the current sought to drag them down beneath the frozen surface. Their fingers
clutched desperately at the ragged edges of the ice that had broken through with them and cracked
and crumbled away at their touch.

Now but two figures were visible to the watching moonbeams; one had been dragged down into
the black waters, down to his death in the freezing depths below.

For a moment a cloud covered the moon's face obscuring its view of things terrestrial. When
it passed and that scene upon the river was once more visible, only one figure remained still
struggling bravely; still clutching at the slippery, crackling ice; still fighting, not for
life alone, but for his soul's salvation. What thoughts must have passed through his mind in
those dreadful, despairing moments! Thoughts of sins committed, of graces neglected; thoughts
of all that might have been and of all that was. Who can know of the sorrow and remorse that
filled his heart, of the wild cry for help and pardon that went up from the river that night?

Meanwhile, the moon shone calmly, steadily, on the boy still fighting for his life, on the
mother praying at her chamber window, and on good Father Xavier sleeping the sleep of the exhausted.

Somewhat later, but still before the dawn, he was summoned from that sleep to answer a sick
call from the hospital just across the river, to which he was chaplain. Three young men coming
home from the city shortly after midnight had attempted to cross the frozen river, though warned
of the danger of doing so. The ice had broken through, two were drowned, one saved, and the
doctors thought he would live though unconscious at present.

No, the names of the young men were not known as yet. The sisters at the hospital sent for
the priest because the boy brought there wore a scapular and they knew he must be a Catholic.
Aside from that nothing was known about him.

Father Xavier's heart stood still. Something told him that his boy had been one of those three.
Two drowned, one saved! Which, oh, which was the one saved?

The hospital reached, it was with rapidly beating heart he followed the nurse through the ward
and stood beside the bed at the farther end. The night light burned low and the features of
the boy upon the bed were scarcely visible. Stooping low, a fervent "Thank God" broke from
the priest's lips as he recognized in the silent figure, the boy for whom his heart had been
yearning. His boy had been the one that was saved. Yes, saved from death, saved from worse
than death, saved to carry out the resolutions he had made while struggling in the icy river
that Christmas morning.

NANCY'S TALE.

"Dear, dear! but God's ways are wonderful, there's no denyin' that. Many a time we poor mortals
think if we only had the handlin' of things, the world would be a pleasanter place for some
of us, but I reckon the Lord knows His own business best. He usually manages to bring things
out right in the end, so He does."

Nancy sat before the kitchen stove, rocking to and fro, and gazing abstractedly before her.
Her mood was a reminiscent one and I knew if I gave her time enough she would launch forth
into one of the interesting narratives of which she possessed a goodly store. To have interrupted
her train of thought by even a whisper would have been fatal; silence and patience must be
my watch-words. Presently she turned to me with the query:

"'Member Mona, the old apple-woman you met here about a year ago?"

Remember the apple-woman? Indeed I did; once having met Mona it was impossible to forget her.
Besides, she was, one might say, one of the landmarks of the town, the frail, shadowy little
woman who sold her apples and peanuts and candy from her stand on the street-corner. Nancy's
words reminded me that I had not seen Mona lately at her usual place of business.

"Well," resumed Nancy, "Mona's gone, gone forever. Poor Mona! It's the hard life she's had,
and I'm after thinkin' she's not sorry that it's over and she's found peace an' happiness at
last. Want to know her story? Well, I'll tell it to you, for it's me that can, havin' known
her since we was wee scraps of babies playin' on the floor together back there in the old country.
Yes, indeed, we were babies together, we grew up together, an' we come out here to America
on the same ship. Dear, dear, how long ago that was, an' it don't seem much more than yesterday.

"Well, as I was sayin', times was mighty hard in Ireland that year, specially in the little
town where me an' Mona was born an' reared. Crops failed, work was slack; finally, famine an'
pestilence took possession of the land. Ah! child, child, you cannot dream what them words
mean, famine an' pestilence. To see the rich growin' poor, the poor starvin' an' dyin' on every
hand; the little children cryin' with cold an' hunger, an' the fathers an' mothers with ne'er
a scrap of food to give 'em. That was the state of things in Ireland the year we left it.

"The plague had carried off my father an' mother, my brothers was all married an' moved away,
an' my only sister was at service in London, so when Mona begged me to come to America with
her an' Michael an' the little ones, I just jumped at the chance. Michael was a good fellow,
sober an' industrious, but there was no work to be had at home and he had heard such wonders
of the land across the sea. There, a man that was a man had no trouble in findin' work an'
making a comfortable livin' for himself an' family. He wanted to leave Mona with his sister
in Dublin, who offered to care for her an' the children until he'd made a home for 'em in the
country he was goin' to. But no, Mona wouldn't hear to that. She'd promised at God's altar
to take him for better or worse an' to cling to him till death. Because the worse had come,
she wasn't goin' to desert him an' let him go out alone to the cold land of the stranger to
fight his battle all by himself. She'd go with him an' stand by him and help an' comfort him
in his struggles. She knew she could help him. She'd been taught by the nuns an' could do all
sorts of fine sewin'. In America, as in Dublin, there must be rich ladies who would pay well
for a bit of fine embroidery or hand-made lace. No, no, Mona wouldn't be left behind; he must
take her an' the little ones, no matter what was before them. It was settled at last that we
was all to go together, an' so, one bright mornin' we stood on the deck of the ship that was
carryin' us far away from home an' all we loved, far away to the strange land across the sea.
With the tears runnin' down our faces, we waved farewell to the shores of Ireland, an' Mona,
though she didn't know it, was wavin' farewell to happiness in this world. Poor girl, it's
little she knew from that day on but grief an' trouble an' sufferin'.

"Well, child, as I was sayin', it was the fine, bright mornin' that we left Ireland, but the
good weather held for only a few days after. Then, there blew up such a storm as I never see
before an' hope never to see again. It was fearful, fearful. I couldn't describe it to you
if I tried. We just lay in our berths, every one of us, our backs agin the wall, our knees
braced agin the board in front, an' we holdin' on for dear life expectin' every moment to be
dashed out on to the floor an' have all our bones broken. "me can not have to utilize him has any
more. After early, i am a s was little," he streamed, her leave foot, which were little than
the right; "and partly," she say, "i am a crooked." "and god believe
that she is hither had been cured?" Come, it did, at last. An
officer stood on the stairs orderin' us all up onto the deck; the ship had sprung a leak, the
water was pourin' in faster than they could pump it out, an' we must take to the boats at once.

"I never can remember rightly what happened then. It seems now such a confusin' jumble of men,
women and childer, all screamin' an' rushin' for the stairs, and all the time the wind was
a howlin' an' the vessel was groanin' an' pitchin' so you had to cling to whatever was nearest
to keep on your feet at all. I don't know how we got there, but the next thing I remember was
standin' on the deck an' hangin' on to something to keep from bein' washed overboard by the
great waves that broke over the ship an' flooded her from stem to stern. Mona stood near me
with the baby on her arm an' holdin' tight to the hand of little Gerald who hid his face in
her skirt an' sobbed in terror. Michael was beside her, one arm holdin' her close while with
the other he hung onto the railin' just as I was doin'. Pretty soon, the boats was lowered
an' everyone made a rush for 'em. There was a shout of:

"'Stand back, there, stand back! Women an' children first; only the women an' children.'

"The ship's officers an' sailors beat back the men an' commenced puttin' the women into the
boats as fast as they could. One of 'em caught Mona by the arm an' tried to hurry her away.
She struggled with him an' begged to be left with Michael. The sailor swore at her an' then
I heard Michael's voice, calm an' steady, above the din of the storm:

"'Go at once, asthore,' say he; 'for the sake of the childer, go at once. Sure, dearie,' says
he, 'we're in the Lord's hands anyway! can't ye trust Him on the water just the same as on
the land?'

"The sailor lifted Mona an' the baby in his arm (it's the wee bit of a thing she was always)
an' passed her on to another to be lowered into the boat. Michael caught up little Gerald an'
cried out to me: 'Take the boy with you, Nancy; take him quick, girl.' But before I could lay
my hand on the child I was seized and put into the boat beside Mona. The poor girl screamed
and held out her arms for the little lad, but the boat was shoved off an' the last thing I
can remember, as a mountain of water rolled up between us an' the ship, was seein' Michael
still clingin' to the rail an' holdin' little Gerald on his arm. Then Mona fainted agin my
shoulder and I had my hands full tendin' her an' the baby.

"It was nearly dusk when we took to the boat, an' pretty soon it was so dark you could scarce
see your hand before you. I'll never forget the horrors of that night, indeed then I won't,
tossin' on top of waves as big as mountains an' the next minute goin' down, down, down, till
I thought sure we'd strike bottom before ever we come up again. But even the longest night
must wear away, an' when day broke we seen a big vessel comin' towards us an' in the course
of an hour or so we was all transferred to her decks. She cruised around for a time, hopin'
to pick up some of the other boats, but couldn't find none of 'em. There was no tellin' how
far away from the wreck an' the boats we'd drifted in the night. The vessel that picked us
up was bound for America an' so we continued our voyage to this country.

"I've often heard people complain of the coldness an' hardness of the world; by 'the world,'
always meanin' the folks that live in it, I suppose. We therefore we could bravely us live how the
poor end in the early missionaries who, although California had already passed from the Frightened
days to rule, and da'wah to wane, however were zealous days for that s of God's holy temples.
 So, when we landed, we each had
a little money to start in with. I soon found work in a mill, an' my poor Mona managed to keep
herself an' the baby by doin' fine sewin'. For a long time we kep' house together, me an' Mona,
then I married an' moved away to another town. My own troubles come on me thick an' fast after
that an' what with one thing an' another, an' movin' here an' there, it was years before I
set eyes on her again. Then we met quite by accident an' I found she was livin' not far from
here with an old woman who peddled shoestrings an' pencils on the street. Mona herself kep'
a stand on a corner where she sold apples an' peanuts an' such stuff.

"That night she come to see me here an' we talked over old times an' all that had happened
since last we met. She'd done well at her sewin', she said, and brought up the baby in tolerable
comfort. Then, just as the child was growin' into a woman that could be of help to her mother
an' pay her back for her years of workin' an' strugglin', she was took down with consumption.
All the little poor Mona had managed to save went in carin' for her sick daughter an' buryin'
her when she died. By that time, Mona's health was pretty well broke up, her eyes was not as
good as they used to be, an' she had to give up the sewin'. She fell in with the old woman
who peddled shoestrings, and, by her advice, started in with her apple-stand. They'd been together
ever since an' managed to earn a livin' between 'em. We talked an' we talked that night, an'
when Mona was goin' she turned to me an' says:

"'Nancy,' says she, 'I can't tell you how thankful I am to have seen you again. An' I can't
tell you how much good you've done me. Nancy,' says she, 'I've been a wicked woman, a wicked,
rebellious woman,' says she. 'I've said dreadful things in my heart an' felt hard an' bitter
at times against Almighty God for all the trials an' sufferin' He sent me. When I look at you,
I'm ashamed of myself. I've lost a husband, so have you; I lost a daughter, you lost two; my
son sleeps at the bottom of the sea, but your son--.Nancy, Nancy, when I go home to-night,
I'll get down on my knees an' thank God that my boy is sleepin' at the bottom of the sea instead
of wanderin' the earth a shame an' a disgrace to me.'

"You see, child, that was before my Danny come back to me to be reconciled to His God. It was
while he was still wanderin' I didn't know where, an' goin' from one piece of villainy to the next.

