There's the point! Is a nation which orders its servants to commit deeds forbidden by international
law, a nation which commands its naval officers to commit deliberate, wanton, dastardly murder
on the high seas (case of Belgian Prince, July 31, 1917, and others), is such a nation to be
regarded as "an established civilized state"?

Were Algiers and Tunis and Tripoli "civilized states" when they sent out the Barbary pirates
in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries? We thought not, and we sent our war-ships
to whip the barbarism out of them.

Commodore Stephen Decatur, in 1815, forced the cruel and cowardly Dey of Algiers to sign a
deed of renunciation and a promise of good conduct, on the deck of an American frigate, under
the Stars and Stripes.

A hundred years ago the glory of the American navy was made clear to the world in the suppression
of the pirates of North Africa. To-day that glory must be maintained by firm, fearless, unrelenting
war against the pirates of North Germany.

A commission to do a certain thing which is in itself unlawful does not change the nature of
the misdeed. No nation has a right to commission its officers to violate the law of nations.

But the Germans say their submarines are such wonderful, delicate, scientific machines that
it is impossible for them to give warning of an attack, or to do anything to save the helpless
people whose peaceful vessel has been sunk beneath their feet. The precious, fragile submarine
cannot be expected to observe any law of humanity which would imperil its further usefulness
as an instrument of destruction.

Marvellous argument--worthy of the Potsdam mind in its highest state of Kultur! By the same
reasoning any assassin might claim the right to kill without resistance because he proposed
to commit the crime with a dagger so delicately wrought, so frail, so slender, that the slightest
struggle on the part of his victim would break the costly, beautiful, murderous weapon.

Again, these extraordinary Germans say that merchant-ships ought not to carry weapons for defense;
it is too dangerous for the dainty U-boat; every merchantman thus armed must be treated as
a vessel of war. But the law of nations for more than two centuries has sanctioned the carrying
of defensive armament by merchant-ships, and precisely because they might need it to protect
themselves against pirates.

Shall the United States be asked to rewrite this article of international law, in the midst
of a great war on sea and land? Shall the government at Washington be seduced by cajolery,
or compelled by threats, to rob the merchantmen of the poor protection of a single gun in order
that they may fall absolutely helpless into the black hands of the prowling Potsdam pirates?
That would be neutrality with a vengeance! Yet that is just what the Imperial German Government
tried to persuade or force the United States to do. Thank God the effort was vain.

These were the matters under discussion when I was called to Washington in February, 1916,
for consultation with the President. The long and wearing controversy had been going on for
months. Every month notes were coming from Berlin, each more evasive and unsatisfactory than
the last. Every week Count Bernstorff and his aides were coming to the State Department with
new excuses, new subterfuges, and the same old lies. The President and Secretary Lansing, both
of whom are excellent international lawyers, found their patience tried to the uttermost by
the absurdity of the arguments presented to them and by the veiled contempt in the manner of
the presentation. But they kept their tempers and did their best to keep the peace.

On two points they were firm as adamant. First, the law of nations should not and could not
be changed in the midst of a war to suit the need of one of the parties. (President Wilson's
Address to Congress, April 19, 1916.)

It was on my return from this visit to Washington that I had an opportunity of observing at
close range the crooked methods of the Potsdam gang in regard to the U-boat warfare.  Arriving
at The Hague on March 24, 1916, I found Holland aflame with helpless rage over the recent sinking
of the S.S. Tubantia, the newest and best boat of the Netherlands-Lloyd merchant-fleet. She
was torpedoed by an unseen submarine on March 15.

An explanation was promptly demanded from the German Government, which denied any knowledge
of the affair. Here i suffer you to breathe, and leave to your meditation what has occurred to
me on the character used of the Revolution.

From this before us, we may be better able to determine on the question i proposed, that is, how
ashore had nations, called with foreign, are heterogeneous to be affected
with the system within that territory. The missing is a body of ways
and means for the supply of dominion, as one likely particle in it.


The German newspapers coolly replied with the astounding statement that there had been two
or three Schwarzkopf torpedoes in naval museums in England, and that this particular specimen
had probably been given to a British submarine and used by her to destroy the good ship Tubantia.

Again Holland would have been left helpless, choking with indignation, but for a second accident.
Another of the lost steamship's boats was found, and in it there was another fragment of the
torpedo. This fragment bore the mark of the German navy, telling just when the torpedo was
made and to which of the U-boats it had been issued.

With this bit of damning evidence in his bag a Dutch naval expert was sent to Berlin to get
to the bottom of the crime and to demand justice. He got there, but he found no justice in
that shop.

The German navy is very systematic, keeps accurate books, makes no accidental mistake. The
pedigree and record of the Schwarzkopf were found. It was issued to a certain U-boat on a certain
date. Undoubtedly it was the missile which unfortunately sank the Tubantia.  All this was admitted
and deeply regretted. But Germany was free from all responsibility for the sad occurrence.
The following amazing reason was given by the Imperial German Government.

This certain U-boat had fired this certain torpedo at a British war-vessel somewhere in the
North Sea ten days before the Tubantia was sunk. The shot missed its mark. But the naughty,
undisciplined little torpedo went cruising around in the sea on its own hook for ten days waiting
for a chance to kill somebody. Then the Tubantia came along, and the wandering-Willy torpedo
promptly, stupidly, ran into the ship and sank her. This was the explanation. Germany was not
to blame. (See the official report in the Orange Books of the Netherlands Government, July,
1916, December, 1916.)

This stupendous fairy-tale Holland was expected to believe and to accept as the end of the
affair. She did not believe it. She had to accept it. What else could she do? Fight? She did
not want to share Belgium's dreadful fate. The Dutch Government proposed that the whole Tubantia
incident be submitted to an international commission. The German Government accepted this proposal
en principe, but said it must be deferred until after the war.

I wonder why some of the Americans who blame Holland for not being in arms against Germany
never think of that stern and awful deterrent which stands under her eyes and presses upon
her very bosom. She is still independent, still neutral, still unravaged. Five-sixths of her
people, I believe, have no sympathy with the German Government in its choice and conduct of
this war. At least this was the case while I was at The Hague. But the one thing that Holland
is, above all else, is pro-Dutch. She wants to keep her liberty, her sovereignty, her land
untouched. To defend these treasures she will fight, and for no other reason. I have heard
Queen Wilhelmina say this a score of times. She means it, and her people are with her.

Seven Dutch ships were sunk in a bunch in the English Channel by the Potsdam pirates on February
22, 1917. Holland was furious. She stated her grievance, protested, remonstrated--and there
she stopped. If she had tried to do anything more she stood to lose a third of her territory
in a few days and the whole in a few weeks--lose it, mark you, to the gang that ruined Belgium.

But the position, and therefore the case, of America in regard to the German submarine warfare
was quite different. She was one of the eight "Big Powers" of the world. She was the mightiest
of the neutrals.

Her rights at sea were no greater than theirs. But her duties were greater, just because she
was larger, more powerful, better able to champion those rights not only for herself but also
for others.

She would not have to pay such an instant, awful, crushing penalty for armed resistance to
the brutalities of the Potsdam gang as would certainly be inflicted upon the little northern
neutrals if they attempted to defend themselves against injustice and aggression.

Their part was to make protest, and record it, and wait for justice until the war was ended.
America's part was to make protest, and then--her protest being mocked, scorned, disregarded--to
stand up in arms with France and Great Britain and help to end the war by a victory of righteous
peace.

But did we not also have objections to some of the measures and actions of the British blockade--as,
for instance, the seizure and search of the mails? Certainly we did, and Secretary Lansing
stated them clearly and maintained them firmly. But here is the difference. These objections
concerned only the rights of neutral property on the high seas. We knew by positive assurance
from England, and by our experience with her in the Alabama Claims Arbitration, that she was
ready to refer all such questions to an impartial tribunal and abide by its decision. Our objections
to the conduct of the German navy concerned the far more sacred rights of "life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness."

The murder of one American child at sea meant more to us than the seizure of a thousand cargoes
of alleged contraband.

No one has ever accused the British or French or Italian sailors in this war of sinking merchant-ships
without warning, leaving their crews and passengers to drown. On the contrary, British seamen
have risked and lost their lives in a chivalrous attempt to save the lives even of their enemies
after the fair sinking of a German war-ship.

But the hands of the Potsdam pirates are red with innocent blood. The bottom of the sea is
strewn with the wrecks they have made. "The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean" hide the bones
of their helpless victims, who shall arise at the judgment-day to testify against them.

On May 7, 1915, the passenger liner Lusitania, unarmed, was sunk without warning by a German
U-boat off the Irish coast. One hundred and fourteen Americans--men, women, and little children,
lawful and peaceful travellers--were drowned--

  "Butchered to make a [German] holiday."

The holiday was celebrated in Germany. The schools were let out. The soldiers in the reserve
camps had leave to join in the festivities. The towns and cities were filled with fluttering
flags and singing folks. A German pastor preached: "Whoever cannot bring himself to approve
from the bottom of his heart the sinking of the Lusitania--him we judge to be no true German."
(Deutsche Reden in Schwerer Zeit, No. 24, p. 7.) A medal was struck to commemorate the great
achievement. It is a very ugly medal. I keep a copy of it in order that I may never forget
the character of a nation which was not content with rejoicing over such a crime but desired
to immortalize it in bronze.

The three strong and eloquent notes of President Wilson in regard to the Lusitania are too
well known to be quoted here. The practical answer from Potsdam (passing over the usual subterfuges
and falsehoods) was the sinking of the Arabic August 19 and the murder of three more Americans.
Then the correspondence languished until the torpedoing (March 24, 1916) of the Sussex, a Channel
ferry-boat, crowded with passengers, among whom were many Americans. (April 18, 1916).

This brought a grudging promise from Germany that she would henceforth refrain from sinking
merchant-vessels "without warning and without saving human lives, unless the ship attempted
to escape or offer resistance." How this promise was kept may be judged from the sinking of
the Marina (October 28), with the loss of eight American lives, and of the Russian (December
14), with the loss of seventeen American lives, and other similar sinkings.

During all this time Germany had been building new and larger submarines with wonderful industry.
She had filled up her pack of sea-wolves. On January 31, 1917, she revoked her flimsy pledge,
let loose her wolf-pack, and sent word to all the neutral nations that she would sink at sight
all ships found in the zones which she had marked "around Great Britain, France, Italy, and
in the Eastern Mediterranean." (Why We Are at War, p. 23, New York, 1917.) The President promptly
broke off diplomatic relations (February 3), and said that we should refrain from hostilities
until the commission of "actual overt acts" by Germany forced us to the conviction that she
meant to carry out her base threat.

The overt acts came quickly. Between February 3 and April 1 eight American merchant-ships were
sunk, and more than forty American lives were destroyed by the Potsdam pirates.

The die was cast. On April 2, 1917, the President advised Congress that the United States could
no longer delay the formal acceptance of "the status of belligerent which had been thrust upon
it." On April 6 Congress took the necessary action.

Back of this momentous and noble decision, in which the hearts of the immense majority of Americans
are with the President, there are undoubtedly many strong and righteous reasons. Some of these
I have tried to set forth in the first part of this article. But we must never forget that
the specific reason given by the President, the definite cause which forced us into the war,
is the German method of submarine warfare, which he has repeatedly denounced as illegal, immoral,
inhuman--a direct and brutal attack upon us and upon all mankind. These words cannot be forgotten,
nor is it likely that the President will retract them.

They set up at least one steadfast mark in the midst of the present flood of peace talk. There
can be no parley with a criminal who is in full and exultant practice of his crime. Unless
the U-boat warfare is renounced, repented of, and abandoned by the Potsdam pirates, an honorable
peace is unattainable except by fighting for it and winning it. [Footnote 8]

[Footnote 8: Belgian Relief ships sunk: S.S. Camilla, Trevier, Feistein, Storstad, Lars Kruse,
Euphrates. Haelen, and Tunis (the last two shelled but not sunk).

Hospital ships sunk: Britannic (probably but not certainly torpedoed); Asturias, March 24.
1917; Gloucester Castle, March 30; Donegal, April 17; Lanfranc, April 17 (with British wounded
and German wounded prisoners).

Among the neutral nations Norway alone has lost more than six hundred ships by mines and torpedoes
of German origin. The dance of death still goes on.]

IV

Only a little space is left for writing of my retirement from the post at The Hague and my
experiences thereafter in England and France.

The reader may have gathered from the tenor of these chapters that the work at the legation
was hard and that the situation was trying to a man with strong convictions and the habit of
expressing them frankly. My resignation was tendered in September, 1916, with the request that
it should not be made public until after the re-election of President Wilson, which I earnestly
desired and expected. My reasons for resigning were partly of a domestic nature. But the main
reason was a personal wish to get back to my work as a writer, "with full freedom to say what
I thought and felt about the war."

The German-American press has tried to start a rumor that I was recalled to Washington to explain
my action on a certain point. That is absolutely and entirely false. The government never asked
for an explanation of anything in my conduct while in office, or afterward. On the contrary,
the President has been kind enough to express his approval of my services in terms too friendly
to be quoted here.

In November, after President Wilson had been triumphantly chosen for a second term, I ventured
to recall his attention to my letter of September. He answered that he would "reluctantly yield"
to my wishes, but would appreciate my remaining at The Hague until a successor could be found
for the post. Of course I willingly agreed to this.

In December the name of this successor was cabled to me with instructions to find out whether
he would be acceptable to the Queen and the Government of Holland. Her Majesty said that this
gentleman would certainly be persona grata, and I cabled to Washington to this effect.

Early in January a message came from the Secretary of State saying that, as all was arranged
except the final confirmation of the appointment, I might feel free to leave at my convenience.
Having cleaned up my work and left everything in order for my successor (including the lease
of my house), I took ship from Flushing for England on January 15, 1917.

The voyage through the danger zone was uneventful. The visit to England was unforgettable.

Everywhere I saw the evidences that Great Britain was at war, in earnest, and resolved to "carry
on" with her Allies until the victory of a real peace was won.

Women and girls were at work in the railway stations, on the trams and omnibuses, in the munition
factories, in postal and telegraph service, doing the tasks of men. We shall have to revise
that phrase which speaks of "the weaker sex."

By night London was

  "Dark, dark, dark, irrecoverably dark."

But it was not still, nor terrified by the instant danger of Zeppelin raids. Every time a German
vulture passed over England dropping bolts of indiscriminate death, it woke the heart of the
people to a new impulse, not of fear but of hot indignation.

By day the great city swarmed with eager life. Business was going on at full swing, though
not "as usual." Women were driving trucks, carrying packages, running ticket-offices. Men in
khaki outnumbered those in civilian dress. Wounded soldiers hobbled cheerfully along the streets.
The parks were adorned with hospitals. Mrs. Pankhurst spoke from a soap-box near the Marble
Arch; not now for woman-suffrage--"That will come," she said, "but the great thing to-day is
to carry on the war to a victory for freedom!"

Oxford--gray city of the golden dream, Learning's fairest and most lovely seat in all the world--Oxford
was transformed into a hospital for the wounded, a training-camp for new soldiers, a nursery
of noble manhood equipped for the stern duties of war.

Every family that I knew was in grief for a dear one lost on the field of glorious strife.
But not one was in mourning. The great sacrifice was bravely accepted as a part of the greater
duty.

The friends with whom I talked most--men like Lord Bryce, Sir Sydney Lee, Sir Herbert Warren,
Sir Robertson Nicoll, Sir William Osler--were lovers of peace, tried and well-known. All were
of one mind in holding that Britain's faith and honor bound her to accept the war when Germany
violated Belgium, and that it must be fought through until the Prussian military autocracy
which began it was broken.

There were restricted rations in England; but no starvation and no sign of it. There were partisan
criticisms and plenty of "grousing." The Britisher is never contented unless he can grumble--especially
at his own government. But there was no lack of a real unity of purpose, nor of a solid, cheerful,
bull-dog determination to hang on to the enemy until he came down. It is this spirit that has
enabled a nation, which was almost ignorant of what military preparedness meant, to put between
three and four million troops into the field in defense of justice and liberty.

At the end of January I went to France, eager to see with my own eyes the great things that
were doing there and to taste with my own lips the cup of danger. That at least I was bound
to do before I could come home and urge my countrymen to face the duty and brave the peril
of a part in this war.

Paris was not so dark as London but more tragic. After Belgium and Servia the heaviest brunt
of this dreadful conflict has fallen upon France. She has suffered most. Yet on the faces of
her women I saw no tears and in the eyes of her men no fear nor regret.

If Britain was magnificent, France was miraculous! Loving and desiring peace she accepted the
cross of war without a murmur. Her women were no less brave than her men. She wears the hero-star
of Roland and the saintly halo of Joan of Arc.

After meeting many men in Paris--statesmen, men of letters, generals--and after visiting the
splendid American Ambulance at Neuilly and other institutions in which our boys and girls were
giving their help to France in the chivalric spirit of Lafayette, I went out toward the front.

The first visit was under the escort of Captain Francois Monod to a chateau beyond Compiegne,
where Rudyard Kipling with his family and I with my family had passed the Christmas week of
1913 together, as joyous guests of the American chatelaine Mrs. Julia Park. She has given the
spacious, lovely house for a military hospital. And there, while the German guns thundered
a few kilometres away from us and a German sausage balloon floated in the sky, I watched the
skilful ministrations of French and American doctors and nurses to the wounded.

One thought haunted me--the memory of Kipling's only son, nineteen years old, who was with
us in that happy Christmastide. The lad was reported "missing" after one of the battles between
Loos and Hulluch. For six months I sought, with the help of Herr von Kuhlmann, German Minister
at The Hague, to find a trace of the brave boy. But never a word could we get.

The second visit was to the battle-field of the Marne under the escort of Captain the Count
de Ganay. We motored slowly through the ruined towns and villages. Those which had been wrecked
by shellfire were like mouthfuls of broken teeth--chimneys and fragments of walls still standing.
Those which had been vengefully burned by the retreating Germans were mere heaps of ashes.
Most of our time was spent around the Marais de St. Gond, where the French General Foch held
the Thermopylae of Europe.

Four times he advanced across that marsh and was driven back, but not beaten. The fifth time
he advanced and stayed, and Paris was forever lost to the Germans. Think of the men who made
that last advance and saved Europe from the Potsdam gang. Their graves, carefully marked and
tended, lie thickly strewn along the lonely ridges of all that region--humble but immortal
reminders of glorious heroism.

The third visit was with the same escort to the fighting front at Verdun.

The long, bare, rolling ridges between Bar-le-Duc and the Meuse; the high-shouldered hills
along the river and around the ruined little city; the open fields, the narrow valleys, the
wrecked villages, the shattered woodlands--all were covered with dazzling snow. The sun was
bright in a cloudless sky. A bitter, biting wind poured fiercely, steadily out of the north,
driving the glittering snow-dust before it. Every man had put on all the clothes he possessed,
and more; pads of sheepskin over back and breast; gunny sacks tied around the shoulders. The
troops of cavalry, the teams of mules and horses dragging munition-wagons or travelling kitchens
or long "75" guns, clattered along the iron surface of the Via Sacra--that blessed road which
made the salvation of Verdun possible after the only railway was destroyed. Endless trains
of motor-lorries lumbered by. The narrow trenches were coated with ice. The hillside trails
were slippery as glass. In the deep dugouts small sheet-iron stoves were burning, giving out
a little heat and a great deal of choking smoke. They almost can get the war in good whole for the
it; nor can they act in concert with les Holland, in our refusal to
Germany anything towards their redemption.

In that case where we are thus situated. A we must give Europe, bound hand and foot, to France;
or we must quit the West Indies now any object, great or earnest, towards indemnity and amount. I repeat
it, without any advantage whatever: because, supposing that our conquest could comprise all that
France ever possessed in the tropical America, it never can security in a estimation to any little
small for us, for the Austrian Netherlands, for the lower grant, that is, for that equivalent
kingdom or circle of Burgundy, never under the yoke of regicide, to say nothing of without
all Italy under the same barbarous domination. Ca peut etre long, mais on les aura!"--"It
may take long, but we shall get them!"--all these and a thousand more things are vivid in my
memory but cannot be told now.

One scene sticks in my mind and asks to be recorded.

The hospital was just back of the Verdun lines. Its roofs were marked with the Red Cross. Twenty-four
hundred beds, all clean and quiet. Wards full of German wounded, cared for as tenderly as the
French. "Will you see an operation?" said the proud little commandant who was showing me through
his domain. "Certainly." A big, husky fellow was on the operating-table, unconscious, under
ether. One of the best surgeons in France was performing the operation of trepanning. I could
see the patient's brain, bare and beating, while the surgeon did his skilful work. Other doctors
stood around, and three nurses, one an American girl, Miss Cowen, of Pittsburgh. "Will the
man get well?" I asked the surgeon. "I hope so," he answered. "At all events, we shall do our
best for him. You know, he is a German--c'est un Boche!"

On August 20, 1917, that very hospital, marked with the Red Cross, was bombed by German aeroplanes.
One wing was set on fire. While the nurses and helpers were trying to rescue the patients,
the bloody Potsdam vultures flew back and forth three times over the place, raking it with
machine guns. More than thirty persons were killed, including doctors, German wounded, and
one woman nurse. God grant it was not the American girl! Yet why would not the killing of a
French sister under the Red Cross be just as wicked?

Here I break off--uncompleted--my narration of the evil choice of war and the crimes in the
conduct of war which have made the name of Germany abhorred.

The Allies, from the beginning, have pleaded for peace and fought for peace. America, obeying
her conscience, has joined them in the conflict.

