The majority of people are carried along like the falling stone, obedient to environment, outside
influences and internal moods, desires, etc., not to speak of the desires and wills of others
stronger than themselves, heredity, environment, and suggestion, carrying them along without
resistance on their part, or the exercise of the Will. Moved like the pawns on the checkerboard
of life, they play their parts and are laid aside after the game is over. But the Masters,
knowing the rules of the game, rise above the plane of material life, and placing themselves
in touch with the higher powers of their nature, dominate their own moods, characters, qualities,
and polarity, as well as the environment surrounding them and thus become Movers in the game,
instead of Pawns-Causes instead of Effects. The Masters do not escape the Causation of the
higher planes, but fall in with the higher laws, and thus master circumstances on the lower
plane. They thus form a conscious part of the Law, instead of being mere blind instruments.
While they Serve on the Higher Planes, they Rule on the Material Plane.

But, on higher and on lower, the Law is always in operation. There is no such thing as Chance.
The blind goddess has been abolished by Reason. We are able to see now, with eyes made clear
by knowledge, that everything is governed by Universal Law-that the infinite number of laws
are but manifestations of the One Great Law-the LAW which is THE ALL. For him there shall be no
death, no Stygian wave across which none returns: Forego the dirge;
let no one raise the cry, Or make unseemly show of grief and gloom,
Nor think o'er me, who shall not really die, To rear the empty honor
of the tomb. And yet, do not make the mistake of supposing that Man is but a blind automaton-far from
that. The Hermetic Teachings are that Man may use Law to overcome laws, and that the higher
will always prevail against the lower, until at last he has reached the stage in which he seeks
refuge in the LAW itself, and laughs the phenomenal laws to scorn. Are you able to grasp the
inner meaning of this?

The great Seventh Hermetic Principle--the Principle of Gender-embodies the truth that there
is Gender manifested in everything-that the Masculine and Feminine principles are ever present
and active in all phases of phenomena, on each and every plane of life. At this point we think
it well to call your attention to the fact that Gender, in its Hermetic sense, and Sex in the
ordinarily accepted use of the term, are not the same.

The word "Gender" is derived from the Latin root meaning "to beget; to procreate; to generate;
to create; to produce." A moment's consideration will show you that the word has a much broader
and more general meaning than the term "Sex," the latter referring to the physical distinctions
between male and female living things. Sex is merely a manifestation of Gender on a certain
plane of the Great Physical Plane--the plane of organic life. We wish to impress this distinction
upon your minds, for the reason that certain writers, who have acquired a smattering of the
Hermetic Philosophy, have sought to identify this Seventh Hermetic Principle with wild and
fanciful, and often reprehensible, theories and teachings regarding Sex.

The office of Gender is solely that of creating, producing, generating, etc., and its manifestations
are visible on every plane of phenomena. It is somewhat difficult to produce proofs of this
along scientific lines, for the reason that science has not as yet recognized this Principle
as of universal application. But still some proofs are forthcoming from scientific sources.
In the first place, we find a distinct manifestation of the Principle of Gender among the corpuscles,
ions, or electrons, which constitute the basis of Matter as science now knows the latter, and
which by forming certain combinations form the Atom, which until lately was regarded as final
and indivisible.

The latest word of science is that the atom is composed of a multitude of corpuscles, electrons,
or ions (the various names being applied by different authorities) revolving around each other
and vibrating at a high degree and intensity. But the accompanying statement is made that the
formation of the atom is really due to the clustering of negative corpuscles around a positive
one---the positive corpuscles seeming to exert a certain influence upon the negative corpuscles,
causing the latter to assume certain combinations and thus "create" or "generate" an atom.
This is in line with the most ancient Hermetic Teachings, which have always identified the
Masculine principle of Gender with the "Positive," and the Feminine with the "Negative" Poles
of Electricity (so called).

Now a word at this point regarding this identification. The public mind has formed an entirely
erroneous impression regarding the qualities of the so-called "Negative" pole of electrified
or magnetized Matter. The terms Positive and Negative are very wrongly applied to this phenomenon
by science. The word Positive means something real and strong, as compared with a Negative
unreality or weakness. Nothing is further from the real facts of electrical phenomenon. The
so-called Negative pole of the battery is really the pole in and by which the generation or
production of new forms and energies is manifested. There is nothing "negative" about it. The
best scientific authorities now use the word "Cathode" in place of "Negative," the word Cathode
coming from the Greek root meaning "descent; the path of generation, etc," From the Cathode
pole emerge the swarm of electrons or corpuscles; from the same pole emerge those wonderful
"rays" which have revolutionized scientific conceptions during the past decade. The Cathode
pole is the Mother of all of the strange phenomena which have rendered useless the old textbooks,
and which have caused many long accepted theories to be relegated to the scrap-pile of scientific
speculation. The Cathode, or Negative Pole, is the Mother Principle of Electrical Phenomena,
and of the finest forms of matter as yet known to science. So you see we are justified in refusing
to use the term "Negative" in our consideration of the subject, and in insisting upon substituting
the word "Feminine" for the old term. The facts of the case bear us out in this, without taking
the Hermetic Teachings into consideration. And so we shall use the word "Feminine" in the place
of "Negative" in speaking of that pole of activity.

The latest scientific teachings are that the creative corpuscles or electrons are Feminine
(science says "they are composed of negative electricity"-we say they are composed of Feminine
energy). A Feminine corpuscle becomes detached from, or rather leaves, a Masculine corpuscle,
and starts on a new career. It actively seeks a union with a Masculine corpuscle, being urged
thereto by the natural impulse to create new forms of Matter or Energy. One writer goes so
far as to use the term "it at once seeks, of its own volition, a union," etc. This detachment
and uniting form the basis of the greater part of the activities of the chemical world. When
the Feminine corpuscle unites with a Masculine corpuscle, a certain process is begun. The Feminine
particles vibrate rapidly under the influence of the Masculine energy, and circle rapidly around
the latter. The result is the birth of a new atom. This new atom is really composed of a union
of the Masculine and Feminine electrons, or corpuscles, but when the union is formed the atom
is a separate thing, having certain properties, but no longer manifesting the property of free
electricity. The process of detachment or separation of the Feminine electrons is called "ionization."
These electrons, or corpuscles, are the most active workers in Nature's field. Arising from
their unions, or combinations, manifest the varied phenomena of light, heat, electricity, magnetism,
attraction, repulsion, chemical affinity and the reverse, and similar phenomena. And all this
arises from the operation of the Principle of Gender on the plane of Energy.

The part of the Masculine principle seems to be that of directing a certain inherent energy
toward the Feminine principle, and thus starting into activity the creative processes. But
the Feminine principle is the one always doing the active creative work-and this is so on all
planes. And yet, each principle is incapable of operative energy without the assistance of
the other. In some of the forms of life, the two principles are combined in one organism. For
that matter, everything in the organic world manifests both genders--there is always the Masculine
present in the Feminine form, and the Feminine form.  The Hermetic Teachings include much regarding
the operation of the two principles of Gender in the production and manifestation of various
forms of energy, etc., but we do not deem it expedient to go into detail regarding the same
at this point, because we are unable to back up the same with scientific proof, for the reason
that science has not as yet progressed thus far. But the example we have given you of the phenomena
of the electrons or corpuscles will show you that science is on the right path, and will also
give you a general idea of the underlying principles.

Some leading scientific investigators have announced their belief that in the formation of
crystals there was to be found something that corresponded to "sex-activity" which is another
straw showing the direction the scientific winds are blowing. And each year will bring other
facts to corroborate the correctness of the Hermetic Principle of Gender. It will be found
that Gender is in constant operation and manifestation in the field of inorganic matter, and
in the field of Energy or Force. Electricity is now generally regarded as the "Something" into
which all other forms of energy seem to melt or dissolve. The "Electrical Theory of the Universe"
is the latest scientific doctrine, and is growing rapidly in popularity and general acceptance.
And it thus follows that if we are able to discover in the phenomena of electricity-even at
the very root and source of its manifestations a clear and unmistakable evidence of the presence
of Gender and its activities, we are justified in asking you to believe that science at last
has offered proofs of the existence in all universal phenomena of that great Hermetic Principle-the
Principle of Gender.

It is not necessary to take up your time with the well known phenomena of the "attraction and
repulsion" of the atoms; chemical affinity; the "loves and hates" of the atomic particles;
the attraction or cohesion between the molecules of matter. These facts are too well known
to need extended comment from us. But, have you ever considered that all of these things are
manifestations of the Gender Principle? Can you not see that the phenomena is "on all fours"
with that of the corpuscles or electrons? And more than this, can you not see the reasonableness
of the Hermetic Teachings which assert that the very Law of Gravitation-that strange attraction
by reason of which all particles and bodies of matter in the universe tend toward each other
is but another manifestation of the Principle of Gender, which operates in the direction of
attracting the Masculine to the Feminine energies, and vice versa? We cannot offer you scientific
proof of this at this time-but examine the phenomena in the light of the Hermetic Teachings
on the subject, and see if you have not a better working hypothesis than any offered by physical
science. Submit all physical phenomena to the test, and you will discern the Principle of Gender
ever in evidence.

Let us now pass on to a consideration of the operation of the Principle on the Mental Plane.
Many interesting features are there awaiting examination.

CHAPTER XIV

MENTAL GENDER

Students of psychology who have followed the modern trend of thought along the lines of mental
phenomena are struck by the persistence of the dual-mind idea which has manifested itself so
strongly during the past ten or fifteen years, and which has given rise to a number of plausible
theories regarding the nature and constitution of these "two minds." The late Thomson J. Hudson
attained great popularity in 1893 by advancing his well-known theory of the "objective and
subjective minds" which he held existed in every individual. Other writers have attracted almost
equal attention by the theories regarding the "conscious and subconscious minds"; the "voluntary
and involuntary minds"; "the active and passive minds," etc., etc. The theories of the various
writers differ from each other, but there remains the underlying principle of "the duality
of mind."

The student of the Hermetic Philosophy is tempted to smile when he reads and hears of these
many "new theories" regarding the duality of mind, each school adhering tenaciously to its
own pet theories, and each claiming to have "discovered the truth." The student turns back
the pages of occult history, and away back in the dim beginnings of occult teachings he finds
references to the ancient Hermetic doctrine of the Principle of Gender on the Mental Plane-the
manifestation of Mental Gender. And examining further he finds that the ancient philosophy
took cognizance of the phenomenon of the "dual mind," and accounted for it by the theory of
Mental Gender. This idea of Mental Gender may be explained in a few words to students who are
familiar with the modern theories just alluded to. The Masculine Principle of Mind corresponds
to the so-called Objective Mind; Conscious Mind; Voluntary Mind; Active Mind, etc. And the
Feminine Principle of Mind corresponds to the so-called Subjective Mind; Sub-conscious Mind;
Involuntary Mind; Passive Mind, etc. Of course the Hermetic Teachings do not agree with the
many modern theories regarding the nature of the two phases of mind, nor does it admit many
of the facts claimed for the two respective aspects--some of the said theories and claims being
very far-fetched and incapable of standing the test of experiment and demonstration. Then making
three great forced marches he came upon the army of Antonius, as it was in column of march,
among the heights above Pistoria, and had there been daylight for the attack when the heads of
the consul’ s cohorts were discovered, it is possible that he might have forced him to fight at disadvantage,
and even defeated him.

In that case there would have been no force capable of opposing him on that side Rome, and every
probability would have been in favor of his making himself master of the city, a success which
would have gone far to insure his triumph.

It was late in the evening, however, when the hostile armies came into presence, each of the
other, and on that account, and, perhaps, for another and stronger reason, Catiline determined
on foregoing the advantages of a surprise.

Caius Antonius, the consul in command, it must be remembered, had been one of the original confederates
in Catiline’ s first scheme of massacre and conflagration, which had been defeated by the unexpected
death of Curius Piso.

Detached from the conspiracy only by Cicero’ s rare skill, and disinterested cession to him of the rich province
of Macedonia, Antonius might therefore justly be supposed unlikely to urge matters to extremities
against his quondam comrades; and it was probably in no small degree
on this account that Catiline had resolved on trying the chances of
battle rather against an old friend, than against an enemy so fixed,
and of so resolute patrician principles as Metellus Celer.

He thought,
moreover, that it was just within the calculation of chances that
Antonius might either purposely mismanœuvre, so as to allow him to
descend upon Rome without a battle, or adopt such tactics as should
give him a victory.

Let us begin with a consideration of the Me, which is usually mistaken for the I by the student,
until he presses the inquiry a little further back into the recesses of consciousness. A man
thinks of his Self (in its aspect of Me) as being composed of certain feelings, tastes likes,
dislikes, habits, peculiar ties, characteristics, etc., all of which go to make up his personality,
or the "Self" known to himself and others. He knows that these emotions and feelings change;
are born and die away; are subject to the Principle of Rhythm, and the Principle of Polarity,
which take him from one extreme of feeling to another. He also thinks of the "Me" as being
certain knowledge gathered together in his mind, and thus forming a part of himself. This is
the "Me" of a man.

But we have proceeded too hastily. The "Me" of many men may be said to consist largely of their
consciousness of the body and their physical appetites, etc. Their consciousness being largely
bound up with their bodily nature, they practically "live there." Some men even go so far as
to regard their personal apparel as a part of their "Me" and actually seem to consider it a
part of themselves. A writer has humorously said that "men consist of three parts--soul, body
and clothes." These "clothes conscious" people would lose their personality if divested of
their clothing by savages upon the occasion of a shipwreck. But even many who are not so closely
bound up with the idea of personal raiment stick closely to the consciousness of their bodies
being their "Me" They cannot conceive of a Self independent of the body. Their mind seems to
them to be practically "a something belonging to" their body-which in many cases it is indeed.

But as man rises in the scale of consciousness he is able to disentangle his "Me" from his
idea of body, and is able to think of his body as "belonging to" the mental part of him. But
even then he is very apt to identify the "Me" entirely with the mental states, feelings, etc.,
which he feels to exist within him. He is very apt to consider these internal states as identical
with himself, instead of their being simply "things" produced by some part of his mentality,
and existing within him--of him, and in him, but still not "himself." He sees that he may change
these internal states of feelings by all effort of will, and that he may produce a feeling
or state of an exactly opposite nature, in the same way, and yet the same "Me" exists. And
so after a while he is able to set aside these various mental states, emotions, feelings, habits,
qualities, characteristics, and other personal mental belongings--he is able to set them aside
in the "not-me" collection of curiosities and encumbrances, as well as valuable possessions.
This requires much mental concentration and power of mental analysis on the part of the student.
But still the task is possible for the advanced student, and even those not so far advanced
are able to see, in the imagination, how the process may be performed.

After this laying-aside process has been performed, the student will find himself in conscious
possession of a "Self" which may be considered in its "I" and "Me" dual aspects. The "Me" will
be felt to be a Something mental in which thoughts, ideas, emotions, feelings, and other mental
states may be produced. It may be considered as the "mental womb," as the ancients styled it-capable
of generating mental offspring. It reports to the consciousness as a "Me" with latent powers
of creation and generation of mental progeny of all sorts and kinds. Its powers of creative
energy are felt to be enormous. But still it seems to be conscious that it must receive some
form of energy from either its "I" companion, or else from some other "I" ere it is able to
bring into being its mental creations. This consciousness brings with it a realization of an
enormous capacity for mental work and creative ability.

But the student soon finds that this is not all that he finds within his inner consciousness.
He finds that there exists a mental Something which is able to Will that the "Me" act along
certain creative lines, and which is also able to stand aside and witness the mental creation.
This part of himself he is taught to call his "I." He is able to rest in its consciousness
at will. He finds there not a consciousness of an ability to generate and actively create,
in the sense of the gradual process attendant upon mental operations, but rather a sense and
consciousness of an ability to project an energy from the "I" to the "Me"--a process of "willing"
that the mental creation begin and proceed. He also finds that the "I" is able to stand aside
and witness the operations of the "Me's" mental creation and generation. There is this dual
aspect in the mind of every person. The "I" represents the Masculine Principle of Mental Gender-the
"Me" represents the Female Principle. The "I" represents the Aspect of Being; the "Me" the
Aspect of Becoming. You will notice that the Principle of Correspondence operates on this plane
just as it does upon the great plane upon which the creation of Universes is performed. The
two are similar in kind, although vastly different in degree. "As above, so below; as below,
so above."

These aspects of mind-the Masculine and Feminine Principles-the "I" and the "Me"-considered
in connection with the well-known mental and psychic phenomena, give the master-key to these
dimly known regions of mental operation and manifestation. The principle of Mental Gender gives
the truth underlying the whole field of the phenomena of mental influence, etc.

The tendency of the Feminine Principle is always in the direction of receiving impressions,
while the tendency of the Masculine Principle is always in the direction of giving, out or
expressing. The Feminine Principle has much more varied field of operation than has the Masculine
Principle. The Feminine Principle conducts the work of generating new thoughts, concepts, ideas,
including the work of the imagination. The Masculine Principle contents itself with the work
of the "Will" in its varied phases. And yet, without the active aid of the Will of the Masculine
Principle, the Feminine Principle is apt to rest content with generating mental images which
are the result of impressions received from outside, instead of producing original mental creations.

Persons who can give continued attention and thought to a subject actively employ both of the
Mental Principles-the Feminine in the work of the mental generation, and the Masculine Will
in stimulating and energizing the creative portion of the mind. The majority of persons really
employ the Masculine Principle but little, and are content to live according to the thoughts
and ideas instilled into the "Me" from the "I" of other minds. But it is not our purpose to
dwell upon this phase of the subject, which may be studied from any good text-book upon psychology,
with the key that we have given you regarding Mental Gender.

The student of Psychic Phenomena is aware of the wonderful phenomena classified under the head
of Telepathy; Thought Transference; Mental Influence; Suggestion; Hypnotism, etc. Many have
sought for an explanation of these varied phases of phenomena under the theories of the various
"dual mind" teachers. And in a measure they are right, for there is clearly a manifestation
of two distinct phases of mental activity. But if such students will consider these "dual minds"
in the light of the Hermetic Teachings regarding Vibrations and Mental Gender, they will see
that the long sought for key is at hand.

In the phenomena of Telepathy it is seen how the Vibratory Energy of the Masculine Principle
is projected toward the Feminine Principle of another person, and the latter takes the seed-thought
and allows it to develop into maturity. In the same way Suggestion and Hypnotism operates.
The Masculine Principle of the person giving the suggestions directs a stream of Vibratory
Energy or Will-Power toward the Feminine Principle of the other person, and the latter accepting
it makes it its own and acts and thinks accordingly. An idea thus lodged in the mind of another
person grows and develops, and in time is regarded as the rightful mental offspring of the
individual, whereas it is in reality like the cuckoo egg placed in the sparrows nest, where
it destroys the rightful offspring and makes itself at home. His themes shall be rather the feast and
the mimic battles of revelling youths and maidens, the making of love in the grots of Venus.
His lyre shall be jocose, his plectrum of the lighter sort.

He not only half-humorously disclaims the capacity for lofty themes, but, especially as he
grows older and more philosophic, and perhaps less lyric, half-seriously attributes whatever
he does to persevering effort. He believes in the file, in long delay
before giving forth to the world the poem that henceforth can never
be recalled. Are not the majority of persons mere shadows and echoes of others having
stronger wills or minds than themselves? The trouble is that the average person dwells almost
altogether in his "Me" consciousness and does not realize that he has such a thing as an "I."
He is polarized in his Feminine Principle of Mind, and the Masculine Principle, in which is
lodged the Will, is allowed to remain inactive and not employed.

The strong men and women of the world invariably manifest the Masculine Principle of Will,
and their strength depends materially upon this fact. Instead of living upon the impressions
made upon their minds by others, they dominate their own minds by their Will, obtaining the
kind of mental images desired, and moreover dominate the minds of others likewise, in the same
manner. Look at the strong people, how they manage to implant their seed-thoughts in the minds
of the masses of the people, thus causing the latter to think thoughts in accordance with the
desires and wills of the strong individuals. This is why the masses of people are such sheeplike
creatures, never originating an idea of their own, nor using their own powers of mental activity.

The manifestation of Mental Gender may be noticed all around us in everyday life. The magnetic
persons are those who are able to use the Masculine Principle in the way of impressing their
ideas upon others. The actor who makes people weep or cry as he wills, is employing this principle.
And so is the successful orator, statesman, preacher, writer or other people who are before
the public attention. The peculiar influence exerted by some people over others is due to the
manifestation of Mental Gender, along the Vibrational lines above indicated. In this principle
lies the secret of personal magnetism, personal influence, fascination, etc., as well as the
phenomena generally grouped under the name of Hypnotism.

The student who has familiarized himself with the phenomena generally spoken of as "psychic"
will have discovered the important part played in the said phenomena by that force which science
has styled "Suggestion," by which term is meant the process or method whereby an idea is transferred
to, or "impressed upon" the mind of another, causing the second mind to act in accordance therewith.
A correct understanding of Suggestion is necessary in order to intelligently comprehend the
varied psychical phenomena which Suggestion underlies. But, still more is a knowledge of Vibration
and Mental Gender necessary for the student of Suggestion. For the whole principle of Suggestion
depends upon the principle of Mental Gender and Vibration.

It is customary for the writers and teachers of Suggestion to explain that it is the "objective
or voluntary" mind which make the mental impression, or suggestion, upon the "subjective or
involuntary" mind. The scholar and the educator found within their walls not only peaceful escape
from the harshnesses of political change and military broil, but
the opportunity to labor usefully and unmolested in the occupation
that pleased them most. But if you will think of the matter in the light of
the Hermetic Teachings you will be able to see that the energizing of the Feminine Principle
by the Vibratory Energy of the Masculine Principle Is in accordance to the universal laws of
nature, and that the natural world affords countless analogies whereby the principle may be
understood. In fact, the Hermetic Teachings show that the very creation of the Universe follows
the same law, and that in all creative manifestations, upon the planes of the spiritual, the
mental, and the physical, there is always in operation this principle of Gender-this manifestation
of the Masculine and the Feminine Principles. "As above, so below; as below, so above." And
more than this, when the principle of Mental Gender is once grasped and understood, the varied
phenomena of psychology at once becomes capable of intelligent classification and study, instead
of being very much in the dark. The principle "works out" in practice, because it is based
upon the immutable universal laws of life.

We shall not enter into an extended discussion of, or description of, the varied phenomena
of mental influence or psychic activity. There are many books, many of them quite good, which
have been written and published on this subject of late years. The main facts stated in these
various books are correct, although the several writers have attempted to explain the phenomena
by various pet theories of their own. The student may acquaint himself with these matters,
and by using the theory of Mental Gender he will be able to bring order out of the chaos of
conflicting theory and teachings, and may, moreover, readily make himself a master of the subject
if he be so inclined. The purpose of this work is not to give an extended account of psychic
phenomena but rather to give to the student a master-key whereby He may unlock the many doors
leading into the parts of the Temple of Knowledge which he may wish to explore. We feel that
in this consideration of the teachings of The Kybalion, one may find an explanation which will
serve to clear away many perplexing difficulties--a key that will unlock many doors. What is
the use of going into detail regarding all of the many features of psychic phenomena and mental
science, provided we place in the hands of the student the means whereby he may acquaint himself
fully regarding any phase of the subject which may interest him. What have we more?

"The snake is scotched, not slain! The spark is concealed, not quenched!
The knife is sharp yet, though it lie in the scabbard! When was conspiracy
beat down by clemency, or treason conquered by timidity? We do not come expounding a
new philosophy, but rather furnishing the outlines of a great world-old teaching which will
make clear the teachings of others-which will serve as a Great Reconciler of differing: theories,
and opposing doctrines.

CHAPTER XV

HERMETIC AXIOMS

    "The possession of Knowledge, unless accompanied by a
    manifestation and expression in Action, is like the
    hoarding of precious metals-a vain and foolish thing.
    Knowledge, like wealth, is intended for Use. The Law of
    Use is Universal, and he who violates it suffers by
    reason of his conflict with natural forces."--The Kybalion.

The Hermetic Teachings, while always having been kept securely locked up in the minds of the
fortunate possessors thereof, for reasons which we have already stated, were never intended
to be merely stored away and secreted. The Law of Use is dwelt upon in the Teachings, as you
may see by reference to the above quotation from The Kybalion, which states it forcibly. Knowledge
without Use and Expression is a vain thing, bringing no good to its possessor, or to the race.
Beware of Mental Miserliness, and express into Action that which you have learned. Study the
Axioms and Aphorisms, but practice them also.

We give below some of the more important Hermetic Axioms, from The Kybalion, with a few comments
added to each. Make these your own, and practice and use them, for they are not really your
own until you have Used them.

    "To change your mood or mental state--change your
    vibration."--The Kybalion.

One may change his mental vibrations by an effort of Will, in the direction of deliberately
fixing the Attention upon a more desirable state. Will directs the Attention, and Attention
changes the Vibration. Cultivate the Art of Attention, by means of the Will, and you have solved
the secret of the Mastery of Moods and Mental States.

    "To destroy an undesirable rate of mental vibration,
    put into operation the principle of Polarity and
    concentrate upon the opposite pole to that which
    you desire to suppress. Kill out the undesirable by
    changing its polarity."--The Kybalion.

This is one of the most important of the Hermetic Formulas. It is based upon true scientific
principles. We have shown you that a mental state and its opposite were merely the two poles
of one thing, and that by Mental Transmutation the polarity might be reversed. This Principle
is known to modern psychologists, who apply it to the breaking up of undesirable habits by
bidding their students concentrate upon the opposite quality. If you are possessed of Fear,
do not waste time trying to "kill out" Fear, but instead cultivate the quality of Courage,
and the Fear will disappear. Some writers have expressed this idea most forcibly by using the
illustration of the dark room. You do not have to shovel out or sweep out the Darkness, but
by merely opening the shutters and letting in the Light the Darkness has disappeared. To kill
out a Negative quality, concentrate upon the Positive Pole of that same quality, and the vibrations
will gradually change from Negative to Positive, until finally you will become polarized on
the Positive pole instead of the Negative. The reverse is also true, as many have found out
to their sorrow, when they have allowed themselves to vibrate too constantly on the Negative
pole of things. By changing your polarity you may master your moods, change your mental states,
remake your disposition, and build up character. Tacitus and Juvenal esteem him, the Emperor
Alexander Severus reads him in leisure hours, the long list of mediocrities representing the
course of literary history demonstrate by their content that the
education of men of letters in general includes a knowledge of him.

The mastery of Polarization is the mastery of the fundamental principles of Mental Transmutation
or Mental Alchemy, for unless one acquires the art of changing his own polarity, he will be
unable to affect his environment. An understanding of this principle will enable one to change
his own Polarity, as well as that of others, if he will but devote the time, care, study and
practice necessary to master the art. The principle is true, but the results obtained depend
upon the persistent patience and practice of the student.

    "Rhythm may be neutralized by an application of the Art
    of Polarization."--The Kybalion.

