"This is a signal honor," observed Captain Czuv when he had revived. "It has been many, many
cycles since they have taken Callistonians captive. They kill us at every opportunity. Is it
your custom to destroy yourselves in a situation such as this?"

"It is not. While we live there is hope."

"Not ours. Unless they have made enormous strides in psychological mechanisms, they cannot
tear from our minds any secrets we really wish to keep. That is useless," he went on, as King
lifted a hand-weapon. "You will have no opportunity whatever to use it," and he was right.

A searing beam of energy drove them out of the vessel, then electro-magnetic waves burned every
metallic object out of their possession. Burning rays herded them into the hexan sphere and
into a small room, whose door clanged shut behind them.

"Ah, two are humans of a strange breed!" a snarling voice barked from the wall, in the Callistonian
language. "Our deductions were accurate, as usual--it is to the humans of Planet Three, whose
bodies are a trifle less puny than those of the humanity of the satellites, that we owe our
recent reverses. However, those reverses were merely temporary--humanity, no matter what its
breed, shall very shortly disappear from the satellites. Now, you scum of the Solar System,
you shall be permitted to witness an entrancing spectacle on the way to our headquarters, where
all your knowledge is to be taken from you before you die, lingeringly and horribly. There
is a strange space-vessel nearing us probably searching for the one we took and which you dogs
of Callisto must have been fortunate enough to take from us before we could study and kill
its human cargo. Watch its destruction and cringe--and know, in your suffering, that the more
you suffer, the greater shall be our enjoyment."

"I believe that," King acknowledged. As all three prisoners stared at the wall-screen, upon
which was pictured a huge football of scarred grey steel, Czuv was amazed to see the faces
of Breckenridge and King light up with fierce smiles of pleasure and anticipation.

"You dissemble well," remarked the Callistonian. "That will rob them of much pleasure."

"They'll get robbed of more than that," King returned. "This is too
good to keep, and since they cannot understand English, I'll tell you
something. I told you about Stevens. He apparently wasn't killed, as
we thought. He must have escaped, and there is the result. That ship
there is far from innocent--her being so far out of range of any of our
power-plants proves that. That vessel is the Sirius--the research
laboratory of the IPC--the Inter-Planetary Corporation! It carries the
greatest scientific minds of three of the inner planets, and it is
loaded with pure poison or it wouldn't be here. Oh, you hexans, what you
have got coming to you!" The x-ray has been
    found to be very beneficial, given in certain quantities, but
    extremely inimical to health, and even fatal, if too much exposure
    is given. The powers of the cosmic rays have not been fully
    discovered as yet. And there is no reason to doubt the theory that
    there may be found still more destructive and powerful rays. Even
    wars are becoming a more dangerous plaything for nations of our
    world--to say nothing of other possible enemies from other parts
    of our universe.

    They start for Cantrell's Comet, where Stevens acquires the
    necessary material for his giant transmitting tube, heads back
    to Ganymede, when their ship is cut, top and bottom, by a strong
    ray-beam. Stevens and Nadia soon find that the other ship is
    manned by friendly beings from Saturn. Together they plan against
    their common foes--the Hexans--who are enemies of the universe.
    After helping the Saturnians to repair their power plant, they
    start back to Ganymede, aided by their new friends from the
    frigid civilization. Finally, however, Stevens succeeds in
    connecting, by radio, with the Sirius and his scientist friends
    on board it, who rush to the aid of the two castaways. It is
    while the castaways are captives of the Hexans that help looms
    near.

CHAPTER IX

The Sirius Takes a Hand

The Sirius loafed along through the ether at normal acceleration just outside the orbit of
Mars and a million miles north of the ecliptic plane. In the control room, which had been transformed
into a bewilderingly complete laboratory, Norman Brandon strode up and down, waving his arms,
his unruly black hair on end, addressing savagely his friend and fellow-scientist, who sat
unmoved and at ease.

"For cat's sake, Quince, let's get busy! They're outside somewhere, since the police have scoured
every cubic kilometer within range of the power plants without finding a trace of them. We've
got the power question licked right now--with these fields we can draw sixty thousand kilofranks
from cosmic radiation, which is lots more than we'll ever need. We haven't drawn a frank from
a plant in a month, and we've had to cut our field strength down to a whisper to keep from
burning out our accumulators. We can hunt as far as Neptune easy--we can go to Alpha Centauri
if we want to. This thing of piffling and monkeying around here's pulling my cork, and for
the ten thousand four hundred and sixty seventh time I say let's prowl and prowl now! In fact,
I'm getting so sick of sticking around doing nothing that I'm going out anyway, if I have to
go alone in a lifeboat!"

Impetuous and violent as Brandon had always been, never before had he gone to such lengths
as to suggest a disruption of the partnership; and Westfall, knowing that Brandon, in his most
violent moments, never threatened idly, thought long before he replied.

"You will not go alone, of course. If you insist upon going without further preparation I will
go too, no matter how foolish I think such a course to be. We have power, it is true, but in
all other respects we are in no condition to meet an opponent having command of such resources
as must certainly be possessed by those who attacked the Arcturus. Our detectors are inefficient,
our system of vision is crude, to say the least, and many other things are still in the experimental
stage. We have not the slightest idea whom or what we may encounter. It is all too probable
that we would simply be throwing away uselessly the lives of more good men. It is also foolish
from a general viewpoint, for as you already know, we and our assistants happen to be in better
position to study these things than is any one else at the present time. However, I will compromise
with you. We can learn much in a month if you will really try, instead of wasting time in fuming
around the ship and indulging in these idiotic tantrums. If you will buckle down and really
study the problems confronting us for thirty days, we will set out at the end of that time,
ready or not."

"All x. I hate to do it, but we've been together too long to bust it up now," and Brandon turned
toward his bench. Scarcely had he reached it when a series of dots and dashes roared from an
amplifier. Both men leaped for the receiver which had so unexpectedly burst into sound, reaching
it just as it relapsed into silence, and from the tape of the recorder they read the brief message.

"...h four seven ganymede point oh four seve...."

"That's Steve!" yelled Brandon. "Nobody else could build an ultra-sender! Direction?"

"No need of calculating distance or direction. Ganymede is the third major satellite of Jupiter."

"Sure. Of course, Quince--never thought of that. Dope enough--point oh four seven."

As Stevens had told Nadia, the message was completely informing to those for whom it was intended,
and soon Brandon's answer was flying toward the distant satellite. He then started to call
the officers of the Inter-planetary Corporation, but was restrained by his conservative friend.

"It would be better to wait a while, Norman. In a few hours we will know what to tell them."

At high acceleration the Sirius drove toward the Jupiter-Earth-North plane, and Brandon calculated
from his own bearings and from the current issue of the "Ephemeris" the time at which Stevens'
reply should be received. Two minutes before that time he was pacing up and down in front of
the ultra-receiver, and fifteen seconds after it he snapped:

"Come on, Perce, get busy! Shake a leg!"

"Oh, come, Norman; give him a few minutes' leeway, at least," said Westfall, with amused tolerance.
"Even if your calculations are that accurate--which of course they are," he added hastily at
a stormy glance from hot black eyes, "since we received that message direct, instead of through
one of our relay stations, Stevens probably has been throwing it around for hours or perhaps
days, looking for us, and the shock of hearing from us at last might well have put him out
of control for a minute or two."

The carrier wave hissed into the receiver, forestalling Brandon's fiery reply, followed closely
by the code signals they had been expecting. As soon as the story had been told, and while
Brandon was absorbed in the scientific addenda of Stevens, Westfall thoughtfully called up
Newton, Nadia's father.

"Nadia is alive, free, safe, well, and happy," he shot out without preliminary or greeting,
as soon as the now lined features of the director showed upon the communicator screen, and
the careworn countenance smoothed magically into the keen face of the fighting Newton of old,
as Westfall recounted rapidly the tale of the castaways.

"They apparently have not suffered in any way," he concluded. "All that Stevens wants is some
cigarettes, and your daughter's needs, while somewhat more numerous than his, seem to be only
clothes, powder, perfume, and candy. Therefore we need not worry about them. The fate of the
others is still unknown, but there seems to be a slight possibility that some of them may yet
be rescued. You may release as much or as little of this story as may seem desirable. Stevens
is still sending data of a highly technical nature. We shall arrive there at 21:32 next Tuesday."

       *       *       *       *       *

In due time the message from Ganymede ended and Brandon, with many pages of his notebook crammed
with figures and equations, snapped off the power of the receiver and turned to his bench.
Gone was the storming, impetuous rebel; his body was ruled solely by the precise and insatiable
brain of the research scientist.

"He's great, that kid Perce! When I see him, I'm going to kiss him on both cheeks. He's got
enough dope on them to hang them higher than Franklin's kite, and we'll nail those jaspers
to the cross or I'm a polyp! He's crazier than a loon in most of his hunches, but he's filled
four of our biggest gaps. There is such a thing, as a ray-screen, you kill-joy, and there are
also lifting or tractor rays--two things I've been trying to dope out and that you've been
giving me the Bronx cheer on. The Titanians have had a tractor ray for ages--he sent me complete
dope on it--and the Jovians have got them both. We'll have them in three days, and it ought
to be fairly simple to dope out the opposite of a tractor, too--a pusher or presser beam. Say,
round up the gang, will you, while I'm licking some of this stuff into shape for you to tear
apart? Where are Venus and Mars? Um ... m ... m. Tell Alcantro and Fedanzo to come over here
pronto--give 'em a special if necessary. We'll pick up Dol Kenor and Pyraz Amonar on the way--no,
get them to Tellus, too. Then we'll get action quicker. Those four are all I want--get anybody
else you want to come along."

His hands playing over the keys of an enormous calculating machine, Brandon was instantly immersed
in a profound mathematico-physical problem; deaf and blind to everything about him. Westfall,
knowing well that far-reaching results would follow Brandon's characteristic attack, sat down
at the controls of the communicator. He first called Mars, the home planet of Alcantro and
Fedanzo, the foremost force-field experts of three planets; and was assured in no uncertain
terms that those rulers of rays were ready and anxious to follow wherever Brandon and Westfall
might lead. Thence to Venus, where Dol Kenor, the electrical wizard, and Pyraz Amonar, the
master of mechanism, also readily agreed to accompany the expedition. He then called the General-in-Chief
of the Interplanetary Police, requesting a detail of two hundred picked men for the hazardous
venture. These most important calls out of the way, he was busy for over an hour giving long-distance
instructions so that everything would be in readiness for the servicing of the immense space-cruiser
the following Tuesday night.

Having guarded against everything his cautious and far-seeing mind could envisage, he went
over to Brandon's desk and sat down, smoking contemplatively until the idea had been roughed
out in mathematical terms.

"Here's the rough draft of the ray screen, Quince. We generate a blanket frequency, impressed
upon the ultra carrier wave. That's old stuff, of course. Here's the novelty, in equation 59.
With two fields of force, set up from data 27 to 43, it will be possible actually to project
a pure force of such a nature that it will react to de-heterodyne the blanketing frequency
at any predetermined distance. That, of course, sets up a barrier against any frequency of
the blanketed band. Incidentally, an extension of the same idea will enable us to see anywhere
we want to look--calculate a retransmitting field."

"One thing at a time, please. That screen may be possible, but those fields will never generate
it. Look at datum 31, in which your assumptions are unsound. In order to make any solution
at all possible you have assumed cosine squared theta negligible. Mathematically, it is of
course vanishingly small compared to the first power of the cosine, but fields of that type
must be exact, and your neglect of the square is indefensible. Since you cannot integrate with
the squared term in place, your whole solution fails."

"Not necessarily. We'll go back to 29, and put in sine squared theta minus one equal to z sub
four. That gives us a coversed sine in 30, and then we integrate...."

Thus the argument raged, and all the assistants whose work was not too pressing gathered around
unobtrusively, for it was from just such fierce discussions as this that the ultra-radio and
other epoch-making discoveries had come into being. Yard after yard of calculator paper was
filled with equations and computations. Weirdly shaped curves were drawn, with arguments at
every point--arguments hot and violent from Brandon, from Westfall cold and precise, backed
by lightning calculations and with facts and diagrams culled from the many abstruse works of
reference, which by this time literally covered the bench and overflowed upon the floor.

It was in this work that the strikingly different temperaments and abilities of the two scientists
were revealed. Brandon never stood still, but walked around jerkily, chewing savagely the stem
of an ancient and reeking pipe, gesticulating vigorously, the while his keen and agile mind
was finding a way over, around, or through the apparently insuperable obstacles which beset
their path; by means of mathematical and physical improvisations, which no one not inspired
by sheer genius could have evolved. Westfall, seated quietly at the calculator, mercilessly
shredded Brandon's theories to ribbons, pointing out their many flaws with his cold, incisive
reasoning and with rapid calculations of the many factors involved. Then Brandon would find
a remedy for each weakness in turn and, when Westfall could no longer find a single flaw in
the structure, they would toss the completed problem upon a table and attack the next one with
unabated zeal. Brandon, in his light remark that the two made one real scientist, had far understated
the case--those two brains, each so powerful and each so perfectly complementing the other,
comprised the master-scientist who was to revolutionize science completely in a few short years.

To such good purpose did they labor that the calculations were practically finished by the
time they reached the earth. There the ship was serviced with a celerity that spoke volumes
for the importance of her mission--even the Aldebaran, the dazzlingly gold-plated queen of
the fleet, waited unattended and disregarded on minus time while the entire force of the Interplanetary
Corporation concentrated upon the battle-scarred old hulk of the Sirius. Brandon was surprised
when he saw the two companies of police, but characteristically accepted without question the
wisdom of any decision of his friend, and cordially greeted Inspector-General Crowninshield,
only a year or so older than himself, but already in charge of a Division.

"Keen-looking bunch, Crown. Lot of different outfits--volunteers for special duty from the
whole Tellurian force?"

"Yes. Everybody wanted to go, and there threatened to be trouble over the selection, so we
picked the highest ratings from the whole Service. If there ever was such a thing as a picked
force, we shall have it with us."

"What d'you mean, 'us'? You aren't going, are you?"

"Try to keep me from it! The names of all five of us I-G's were put in a hat, and I was lucky."

"Well, you may come in handy, at that," Brandon conceded. "And here's the big boss himself.
Hi, Chief!"

"Ho, Brandon! Ho, Westfall!" Newton, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the IPC, shook hands
with the two scientists. "Your Martians and Venerians are in Lounge Fifteen. I suppose that
you have a lot of things to thrash out, so you may as well start now. Everything is being attended
to--I'll take charge now."

"You going along, too?" asked Brandon.

"Going along, too? I'm running this cruise!" Newton declared. "I may take advice from you on
some things and from Crowninshield on others, but I am in charge!"

"All x--it's a relief, at that," and Brandon and Westfall went to join their fellow-scientists
in the designated room of the space-cruiser.

       *       *       *       *       *

What a contrast was there as the representatives of three worlds met! All six men were of the
same original stock or of a similar evolution--science has not, even yet, decided the question
definitely. Their minds were very much alike, but their respective environments had so variantly
developed their bodily structures that to outward seeming they had but little in common.

Through countless thousands of generations the Martians had become acclimated to a planet having
little air, less water, and characterized by abrupt transitions from searing heat to bitter
cold: from blinding light to almost impenetrable darkness. Eight feet tall and correspondingly
massive, they could barely stand against the gravitational force of the Earth, almost three
times as great as that of Mars, but the two Martian scientists struggled to their feet as the
Terrestrials entered.

"As you were, fellows--lie down again and take it easy." Brandon suggested in the common Interplanetarian
tongue. "We'll be away from here very soon, then we can ease off."

"We greet our friends standing as long as we can stand," and, towering a full two feet above
Brandon's own six-feet-two, Alcantro and Fedanzo in turn engulfed his comparatively tiny hand
in a thick-shelled paw and lifted briefly the inner lids of quadruply-shielded eyes. For the
Martian skin is not like ours. It is of incredible thickness; dry, pliable, rubbery, and utterly
without sensation: heavily lined with fat and filled throughout its volume with tiny air-cells
which make it an almost perfect non-conductor of heat and which prevent absolutely the evaporation
of the precious moisture of the body. For the same reasons their huge and cat-like eyes are
never exposed, but look through sealed, clear windows of membrane, over which may be drawn
at will one or all of four pairs of lids--lids transparent, insensible, non-freezable, air-spaced
insulators. Even the air they exhale carries from their bodies a minimum of the all-important
heat and moisture, for the passages of their nostrils do not lead directly to the lungs, as
do ours. They are merely the intakes for a tortuous system of tubes comprising a veritable
heat-exchanger, so that the air finally expelled is in almost perfect equilibrium with the
incoming supply in temperature and in moisture content. A grayish tan in color, naked and hairless--though
now, out of deference to Terrestrial conventions, wearing light robes of silk--indifferent
alike to any extreme of heat or cold, light or darkness: such were the two forbidding beings
who arose to greet their Terrestrial friends, then again reclined.

"I suppose that you have been given to drink?" Westfall made sure that they had been tendered
the highest hospitality of Mars.

"We have drunk full deeply, thanks; and it was not really necessary, for we drank scarcely
three weeks ago."

Brandon and Westfall turned then and greeted the two Venerians, as different from the Martians
as they were from the Terrestrials. "." Site ought be featureless! I launched.

Evoe.********** such energy. ",". "really is really,". Defenseless, problem. Force, hansard, person.
"'," innkeeper; "steel he is;" within all make, time.

"',", "'couldn'.'," hexan-see.

Vessel, allocution, small; and as we were all hear collector, victory,
criminal.

Within which to occupy, time.

"surface!" her encounter, apparel, "non'.

Another retardation! I launched. She had won that i had." "it?" he was expect. "worthless?" "change?".
",". ". She.', hollow.

Having learn of it. Slow! It'." "ha'p'orth?". ". Thirty.'. Appropriation is nothing--." ",", "'.
Of do." "stranger?" the one. "',". "the?" "," she, ".

Day, range,'.". "no,'mho had learn.'. I wouldn'hexan-non driver to anything." "this happy,", "."
"no," Time, ".'.

This will be cede.'small; else small would encounter her deal they'll, education, goldmohur.'ll-firm."
As armor, housemaid. Plane. "so, stranger," she launched over, "'minicab-operator.

Inquire,". "you launched," domestic, "'.
 An armament conceived
in the fertile and daring brain of a sheer genius, guided only by the knowledge that such things
were already in existence somewhere; reduced to working theory by a precise, mathematical logician;
translated into fields of force by the greatest known experts; powered by the indefatigable
efforts of an electrical wizard; made possible by the artful mechanical devices of the greatest
inventor that three worlds had ever known! Thus it was that they approached Ganymede, ready,
with blanketing screens full out, save for one narrow working band, and with a keen-eyed observer
at every plate. When even the hyper-critical Westfall was convinced that their preparations
were as complete as they could be made with the limited information at hand, Brandon directed
a beam upon the satellite and tapped off a brief message:

"stevens ganymede will arrive in about ten hours direct carrier beam toward sun we can detect
it and will follow it to wherever you are sirius."

"ipv sirius," came the reply, "everything here, all x glad to see you thanks newton and stevens."

Brandon, at the controls, scanning his screens narrowly, dropped the vessel down to within
a mile or two of the point of origin of Stevens' carrier beam without incident; then spoke
to Westfall, at his side, with a grin.

"Nice layout the kid's got down there, Quince. It's too bad--don't look like we're going to
get any action for our money a-tall. 'Sa shame, too--what's the use of wasting it, now that
we've got it all made?"

"We are not done yet," cautioned Westfall, and even as he spoke an alarm bell burst into strident
clamor--one of their far-flung detector screens was telling the world that it had encountered
a dangerous frequency. The new ultra-lights flared instantly along the line automatically laid
down by the detector, and upon the closely ruled micrometer screen of Brandon's desk there
glowed in natural color the image of a globular space-ship, approaching them with terrific speed.

"Men all stationed, of course, Crown?"

"Stationed and ready." Crowninshield, phones at his ears and microphone at his lips, was staring
intently into his own plate.

"Kinda think I'll do most of it from here, but you can't always tell. If they get inside my
guard you all know what to do."

"All x."

Expecting another such hollow victory as the other Hexan vessel had won over the defenseless
Arcturus, the small stranger flashed nearer and nearer that huge and featureless football of
armor steel. Within range, she launched her flaming plane of energy, but this time that Jovian
sheet of force did not encounter unprotected and non-resisting steel. Their partner or said "no,"
my other opponent said "no," and where i, thinking it couldn't be worse, switched of his original
generator and called we 1 hearts. The was instantly doubled into declarer
by the-trumps. Activity are the suit, as i made turbine diamonds.
 Switch after
switch drove home, and one after another those frightful fields of force, those products of
the mightiest minds of three planets, were hurled out against the tiny Jovian sphere. Driven
as they were by the millions upon millions of horsepower stored in the accumulators of the
Sirius they formed a coruscating spherical shell of intolerable energy all around the enemy
vessel, but even their prodigious force was held at bay by the powerful defensive screens of
the smaller space-ship. But attack the Jovian could not, every resource at her command being
necessary to fend off the terrific counter-attack of her intended prey, and she turned in flight.
Small and agile as she was, the enormous mass of the Sirius precluded any possibility of maneuvering
with the Jovian, but Brandon had no intention of maneuvering. Rapid as the motions of the stranger
were and frantic as was her dodging, the terrific forces of the tractor beams of the Interplanetary
Vessel held her in an unbreakable grip, and although she dragged the massive Sirius hither
and thither, she could not escape.

"Hm ... m ... m," mused Brandon. "We seem to be getting nowhere fast. How much power we using,
Mac, and how much have we got coming in?"

"Output eighty-five thousand kilofranks," replied MacDonald, the first assistant. "Intake forty-nine
thousand."

"Not so good--can't hold out forever at that rate. Shove out the receptor screens to the limit
and drive 'em. They figure a top of sixty thousand, but we ought to pick up a little extra
from that blaze out there. "September," came the man, "marks the failing out of a drive and the advent
extended of autumn, another clip of maturate rich-faced commodity
and the period about a coloured and gloriously-ruddy collection."

Of another
portion of this statement i have no observation to make.

"Better not do that yet, Norman. Use that only as a last resort, after everything else has failed."

"Yeah--I'm scared to death of trying it, and it isn't necessary yet. He must have an open slit
somewhere to work through, just as we have. I'll feel around for it a while."

"Is there any way of hetrodyning the new visiray upon the exploring frequency?"

"Hm ... m.... Never thought of that--it would be nice, too.... I think we can do it, too. Watch
'em, Quince, and holler if they start anything."

He abandoned his desk and established the necessary connections between the visiray apparatus
and the controls of his board. There was a fierce violet-white glare from the plate as he closed
the switch, and he leaped back with his hands over his eyes, temporarily blinded.

"Wow, that's hot stuff!" he exclaimed. "It works, all x, to the queen's taste," as he donned
his heavy ray-goggles and resumed his place.

