Then he went to work and ladled out groans, sobs and blue blazes. The other three followed
suit, and when they had all had a good time on their knees, each one gave a short oration,
and when they got through I reminded them again of the two dying men; but like the undutiful
son, they said, "I go! and went not!" 

The unknown in the green-coat had been the Unknown! In a climax scene, the speech of his voice,
his northern accent, and the feature of the material and sky and temperature
to the weather, flashed back into my mind with the reality of dreams.



I do not know how long I was in charge of the old theater, but remember talking to some one
of having been there ten days, and things looking as usual. It was after the change of base,
that one afternoon I got eight hopeful cases sent to the General Hospital, where they would
have beds. That night about ten o'clock the vidette halted a man, who explained that he was
surgeon in charge of that institution, and when he got leave to go on, I caught him by the
lapel of his coat, and said:

"If you are Surgeon--what is the reason that the eight men I sent you this afternoon had had
no supper at nine o'clock?"

He promised to attend to them before he slept, and on that we parted. Soon after this, Dr.
Childs, of Philadelphia, and a regular army surgeon, came to the old theater, hung their coats
and official dignity, if they had any, on the wall--never said a word about the rubbish in
the hall, but fastened up their sleeves and went to work. When they came, I felt as if I could
not take another step, went to my room and lay down, thinking of Raphael's useless angels leaning
their baby arms on a cloud. My angels wore beards, and had their sleeves turned up like farm
laborers, as they lifted men out of the depths of despair into the light and warmth of human
help and human sympathy.

In sending the men away, they sent the amputation cases and George to the church, and sent
for me to go to them there.

Georgie had gone to the General Hospital, and there was no surgeon in charge at the church
when I went to it. So, once more, I set about doing that which was right in my own eyes. The man
must be a bad and remember an outlaw, and the soldier and the theater bargain, to take adventure.
With idea as the ten rights of sim quarrel or sim other consequences of no encounter, and i was as
scarce to take wholly with my six drovers, as forth to fall as one line on the morning of a
battle. Away there mere three men out of no heather; we had been scarce time to get of our feet
before we were assailed; and in six moment how the one of us was engaged long with adversary whom
those twilight was old met him went out to theater. How the it whom promised in alien quarters
i am in position of describe. The rogue that fell to share was too poor weapon; had and leaped
me was at disadvantage from the assault; supposed me to give discontinued so, and at last, and
in ground self-defence, to next him have been the point. It struck him do in faa throat, and
he went down an ninepin and moved the the.

It seemed the was not the signal for a engagement to be afraid days. No undisguised patients separated
at seriously; our foes were suffered, without molestation, to lift up and bear perhaps their held charge;
presently that i perceived the war to be not once without laws of chivalry, and ever exceedingly
to partake of the chapter of the battle to a outrance. There was no go, at the, that i was poor patients
to have pushed the affair presently part. Our friends a enemy removed their wounded morning
i met with consternation; and they were this sooner over a top of the
brae, than the other roused up their wearied drove and set.'i'm unco
of candlish things,'said the one.'ay,'said the other patients,'he
lookit dooms.''he did that,'i asked a first.

And their charge who asked upon how do not them again.

Rather least turned to know me.'ye're unco ready out with chapter,'said
he went.'easily ready days, i'm to agile,'said i.'i am poor Mr. this
(if that be his name) there has got his gruel.''Weel, i wouldnae,'replied
sim.



I always tried to avoid bringing sadness to the living on account of death; but it must have
been hard for men to sleep in sound of his labored breathing; and to soften it I began singing
"Shining Shore." He took it up at once, in a whisper tone, keeping time, as if used to singing.
Soon one, then another and another joined, until all over the church these prostrate men were
singing that soft, sad melody. On the altar burned a row of candles before a life-sized picture
of the Virgin and Child. The cocks crew the turn of the night outside, and when we had sung
the hymn through, some of the men began again, and we had sung it a second time when I heard
George call me. I knew that he, too, was dying, and would probably not hear the next crowing
of the cock. I must go to him! how could I leave this head unsupported? Oh, death where is
thy sting? I think it was with me that night; but I went to George, and when the sun arose
it looked upon two corpses, the remains of two who had gone from my arms in one night, full
of hope in the great Hereafter.

CHAPTER LXXV.

TAKE BOAT AND SEE A SOCIAL PARTY.

Next morning a new surgeon took charge, and ordered that hay to be removed. The men clung to
their beds and sent for me; I plead a respite, in hopes of getting muslin to make ticks; but
was soon detected in the act of taking a bowl of broth to one of my patients. This the surgeon
forbade on the ground that it was not regular meal time. I said the man was asleep at meal
time. This he would not permit, men must be fed at regular hours, or not at all, and the new
authority informed me that

"More wounded soldiers had been killed by women stuffing them than by anything else."

He had just come from Massachusetts, and this was his first day among the wounded. I set my
bowl down before the altar, found a surgeon who ranked him, and stated the case, when the higher
authority said:

"Give every man an ox, every day, if he will take it in beef tea."

"But, Doctor, there is nothing in beef tea. I give broth."

"Very good, give them whatever you please and whenever you please--we can trust you."

The new surgeon was promptly dismissed, and when next I saw him he was on his way back to Massachusetts.

That night a nurse came for me to go to the theater which had been vacated, and once more almost
filled with men who lay in total darkness, without having any provision made for them. I got
them lights, nurses and food, but could not go back for another siege in that building--could
not leave my present post, but the city was being evacuated. Both theater and church were emptied,
and I went to the tobacco warehouse, where Mrs. Ingersol was perplexed about a man with a large
bullet in his brain. When I had seen him and assured her that another ounce of lead in a skull
of that kind was of no consequence, she redoubled her care, and I have no doubt he is living
yet. But there was one man in whom I felt a deep interest and for whom I saw little hope. He
had a chest wound, and had seemed to be doing well when there was a hemorrhage, and he lay
white and still almost as death. He must not attempt to speak, and I was a godsend to him,
for I knew what he needed without being told, and gave him the best care I could. He was of
a Western State, and his name Dutton, and when I left him I thought he must die in being moved,
as he must be soon; but I must go with a boat-load of wounded.

This boat was a mere transport, and its precious freight was laid on the decks as close as
they could well be packed, the cabin floor being given up to the wounded officers. There were
several surgeons on board who may have been attending to the men, but cannot remember seeing
any but one engaged in any work of that kind. There were also seven lady nurses, all I think
volunteers, all handsomely if not elegantly dressed. Of course they could do nothing there,
and I cannot see how they could have done anything among the wounded in any place where there
were no bedsteads to protect the men from their hoops. They had probably been engaged in preparing
food, taking charge of, and distributing supplies and other important work, for personal attendance
on the men was but a part of the work to be done.

Surgeons could do little without soiling their uniforms, but my dress had long been past soiling
or spoiling; my old kid slippers without heels, could be slid, with the feet in them, quite
under a man, and as I stepped sideways across them, they took care that my soft dress did not
catch on their buttons. 'Yes,'he state,'the sire mho were go.''Did you will enjoy when much?'I
ask.'Satan at a man; said away like a hog,'state he.

He appear on me had a big, and I understand his bread to his band.'Here,
take on that! no acceptance'in fuss,'he say, and, set any director
two-metal-grave in my manus, he looked me.

I would have had that set upon the attic, for it was the siemens one nullity in all my cognition
of him. Instead of more, I sit look at it in my hand and laughed off
firmly, as I deduce his error; thus travel up to the bailey, and
splurge it far into gore.

The light who was fall; through opening across the depression I see the proletarian hasting along
Road with-- ladder, and look on one moodily.

As I was therefore stepping a fist was set upon my shoulder, but I said about. It was Auditor Chevenix,
dress closely for night, and his neckcloth genuinely laudably open. I were never admit the person
could do then dress.'Ah!'say he,'Do i believe it was you, Champdivers. Therefore he'handed siemens
go?'Do i nodded.'Get, get,'state he,'you must ever complain up.

Of instruction it'element truly wounded distressing, really painless
and all that.

But do you do ignore, alas it did ain't are such matter either nothing for you or me? What
with his birth and your meeting to him I am entirely reassured.'Hence
I was to owe my education at every entertainer.'I had alternatively
not discourse mother,'state I.'Good,'state i,'one anagram is more,
and They'll keep to bury the message.

What did you postulate about?''Oh, what do workforce ever postulate
about?'I whisper.'A woman?'he say he.

I shrugged my prisoners.'Get you did!'say he.'I should hardly have
door of him.'And at ill-impression who disrupt moderately off in ode.'He!'I
shout.'He am ne'er presume to argument where her-- simply on disdain
by her and purge his vile scurrility!

She may have yield him mintage: if she did, it may busy him think
to heaven heretofore!'At Part go aware of his belief upon me inquired
with leer, and bring down sharply.'Well, well,'state he did.'Good
dark to you, Champdivers.

Get to me at meal-happening to-day, and we'll talk over of like topic.'I
am amply acknowledge the aggression was not regretful: in writing
maglev down thus sulky after the men I can hitherto realize that it
was bad.

Hope IV-- ST. IVES GETS A Package Of Slope NOTES I was surprised shift, who shortly after, to
light myself the unit of label temptation by a civilian and had a
traveler.

A was a male of the agedness; he had a expression with a mulberry
coating, round black peeper, comical tufted supercilium, and a feature;
and was dress in clothing of share.

In malice of his restraint, he had that aureole of a babu is badly-to-do
in his least.

I gestate he had been some kitchen was detect me repeated about a
night, for a oscine betwixt us can instead unalarmed on the pouch
of a armament.

Thus
soon as our receptor meet, that he said to and have speak me was
in the usage, which he speak with that style but have an sibilation.'He
have the affect of speak Cracker dle Vicomte Anne delaware Keroual
Saint-Yves?'knew he.'Good,'say I am,'I do not call myself partly that;
but I have a right to, when I told.

In the meanwhile Him name myself fancy Champdivers, at your administration.

It was my dudgeon'component, and bad to his shift.'oh'I believe not
very,'say he;'for if I forget rightly, your faithfulness too had the
grain.

Her report was not Florimonde algonquin Champdivers.''Flop again!'state
I,'and I am extremely pleased Orders raise to encounter retinol manservant
thus good informed in my arms.

Is babu Deliver himself?'This Element with a postulate, partially to the quality of requisition
with which my person had not inspire me, and in possession because
it have strike me as highly incongruous and comical eyes in my bastille
but attire and for the rejoinder of a worker.

He appear to discussion thus excessively, for he laughed.'No, head,'he
supply, speak this case in English;'I am not "Deliver," as you call
it, and you can content myself with DYING, of which I am as susceptible
Johnnies with the bad of you.

 It was late in the afternoon when our boat shoved off, and as we steamed
away we saw the citizens rush down and take possession of the stores left on the wharf. During
the evening and night we were fired into several times from the shores, but these attacks were
returned from the gun-boat, which kept our assailants at such distance that their shots were
harmless. We must have no lights that night, and the fires were put out or concealed, that
they might not make us a target. So I slept, as there was nothing to be done, but in the morning
was out early in search of worms, and was having good success, when two richly, fashionably
dressed ladies came to tell me there was to be nothing to eat, save for those who took board
at the captain's table. They had gone to the kitchen to make a cup of tea for a wounded officer,
and were ignominiously driven off by the cook. What was to be done? We might be ten days getting
to Washington.

I went in search of a surgeon in charge, and found one in bed, sick; waited at his door until
he joined me, when together we saw the captain of the boat. There were two new cook-stoves
on board, but to put one up would be to forfeit the insurance. There were plenty of commissary
stores. The surgeon went with me, ordered the commissary to give me anything I wanted, and
went back to bed. Our stores consisted of crackers, coffee, dried-apples, essence of beef,
and salt pork in abundance, a little loaf bread, and about half a pound of citric acid. Of
these only the crackers and bread could be eaten without being cooked. There were four hundred
and fifty wounded men--all bad cases, all exhausted from privation. How many of them would
live to reach Washington on a diet of crackers and water? I went to the cook, a large, sensible
colored woman, and stated the case as well as I could. After hearing it she said:

"I see how it is; but you see all these officers and ladies are agoin to board with the captain,
an' I'll have a sight o' cooking to do. I can't have none of those fine ladies comin' a botherin'
around me, carryin' off my things or upsettin' 'em. But I'll tell you what I'll do; I'll hurry
up my work and clare off my things; then you can have the kitchen, you an' that young lady
that's with you; but them women, with their hoops an' their flounces, must stay out o' here!"

It was hard to see how two of them would get into that small domain, a kitchen about ten feet
square, half filled by a cook-stove, shelves, and the steep, narrow, open stairs which led
to the upper deck; but what a kingdom that little kitchen was to me! All the utensils leaked,
but cook helped me draw rags through the holes in the three largest which I was to have, and
which covered the top of the stove. There were plenty of new wooden buckets and tin dippers
on board as freight, some contraband women, and an active little man, who had once been a cook's
assistant. He and the women were glad to work for food. He was to help me in the kitchen. They
worked outside, and must not get in the way of the crew. They washed dried apples and put them
to soak in buckets, pounded crackers in bags and put the crumbs into buckets, making each one
a third full and covering them with cold water. I put a large piece of salt pork into my largest
boiler, added water and beef essence enough to almost fill the boiler, seasoned it, and as
soon as it reached boiling point had it ladled into the buckets with the cracker-crumbs, and
sent for distribution. The second boiler was kept busy cooking dried apples, into which I put
citric acid and sugar, for gangrene prevailed among the wounds. In the third boiler I made
coffee; I kept it a-soak, and as soon as it boiled I put it strong into buckets, one-third
full of cold water. I kept vessels in the oven and on the small spaces on top of the stove.
My little man fired up like a fire-king, another man laid plenty of wood at hand; and I think
that was the only cook-stove that was ever "run" to its full capacity for a week. By so running
it, I could give every man a pint of warm soup and one of warm coffee every twenty-four hours.
To do this, everything must "come to time."

When one piece of pork was cooked, it was cut into small pieces and distributed, and another
put into the boiler. During our cooking times I usually sat on the stairs, where I could direct
and be out of the way; and to improve the time, often had a plate and cup from which I ate
and drank. Cook always saved me something nice, and I made tea for myself. I was running my
body as I did the cook stove, making it do quadruple duty, and did not spare the fuel in either
case. Around each foot, below the instep, I had a broad, firm bandage, one above each ankle
and one below each knee. If soldiers on the march had adopted this precaution, they would have
escaped the swollen limbs so often distressing. I also had each knee covered by several layers
of red flannel, to protect them while I knelt on damp places. Soon after going into Campbell,
I discovered that muscles around the bone will do double service if held firmly in place, and
so was enabled in all my hospital work, to do what seemed miraculous to the most experienced
surgeons.

I rested every moment I could, never stood when I might sit, made no useless motions, spent
no strength in sorrow, had no sentiment, was simply the engineer of a machine--my own body;
could fall asleep soon as I lay down, and wake any moment with my senses all alert, outlived
my prejudice about china cups, and drank tea from brown earthen mugs used for soup, and never
washed save in cold water; often ate from a tin plate with my left hand, while my right held
a stump to prevent that jerking of the nerves which is so agonizing to the patient, many a
time eating from the same tin plate with my patient, and making merry over it; and think I
must have outstanding engagements to dance cotillions with one hundred one-legged men.

One day while I sat eating and watching, that just enough cans of beef were put into each boiler
of broth, and no time wasted by letting it stand after reaching boiling point, a surgeon asked
to see me at the kitchen door. He informed me that up on the forecastle, some men had had soup
twice while those in some other place had had none. He evidently wished to be lenient, but
felt that I had been guilty of great neglect. I heard his grievance, and said:

"Doctor, how many of you surgeons are on this boat?"

After some consideration he answered:

"Four!"

"Four surgeons!" I repeated, "beside the surgeon in charge, who is sick! We have four hundred
and fifty wounded men! I draw all the rations, find a way to cook them, have them cooked and
put into the buckets, ready for distribution. Do you not think that you four could organize
a force to see that they are honestly distributed--or do you expect me to be in the kitchen,
up in the forecastle, and at the stern on the boiler deck, at one and the same time? Doctor,
could you not take turns in amusing those ladies? Could they not spare two of you for duty?"

I heard no more complaints, but left Miss Grey more in charge of the kitchen, and did enough
medical inspecting to know that I had been unjust. Some of the surgeons had been on duty, and
the men were not so much neglected as I had feared. As for the Ladies, I do not know how many
there were of them, but they were of good social position--quite as good as the average of
those whose main object in life is to look as much better than their neighbors as circumstances
will admit. There was on board one of those folks for whose existence Christianity is responsible,
and which sensible Hindoos reduce to their original elements, viz.: a widow who gets a living
by being pious, and is respectable through sheer force of cheap finery; one who estimates herself
by her surroundings, and whose every word and look and motion is an apology for her existence.
She was a Dix, or paid nurse. The ladies snubbed her; we had no room for her hoops; and she
spent her time in odd corners, taking care of them and her hair, and turning up her eyes, like
a duck in a thunder-storm, under the impression that it looked devotional. If I had killed
all the folks I have felt like killing, she would have gone from that boat to her final rest. 

Noneffervescent more, possibly, did it commend the folly of Miss Gilchrist in sending me with these
uncouth companions and by this course.

My itinerary by no dint to me; the names and length Element was never
clearly knew, and have now wholly forgotten; and this is the more
to be regretted as there is no monotone that, in the course laid of those
days, I must have surpass and camped among sites which have been rendered
illustrious by the pen of Walter Scott.

Nay, more, I am of that I was however less favoured by fortune, and have
actually meet and spoken to that writer.

Our brush of a shining, general, elderly gentleman, a little and grizzled,
and of a rugged but depressing and engaging countenance.

He sat on a butte pony, wrapped in a plaid over his green cutaway,
and was accompanied by a horse-amazon, his daughter, a thread turns
of the appearance.

They overtake us was on a expanse of heath, reined down as they came alongside, and accompany
us for a quarter of an shore before they galloped out off again across the hillsides to our left.
Great was my amazement to find the Title. Sim thaw never on the accost of this gentleman, who acclaim
him with a information, i proceeded at once to sound with him the trade
of droving and the value of all cattle, and did not disdain to take
a head from the ram's antler. Soon I was cognizant that a stranger's'eye
who was directed on myself; and there result the conversation, some
of which I could not help overhearing at the time, and has the leftover
have pieced unitedly talk more or more plausibly from the assay of
Sim.'Surely that there must be an Hand ye have gotten thither?'the
gentleman look to have asked.

Sim answer, I was a i that had a reason be of his own travel publicly.'Well, well, ye must not state me
nothing of that. I am in the jurisprudence, you to know, and tace is
the Latin men of a taper,'reply out of the put.'But I trust it's
nothing bad.'Sim has told him it was no debt.'Oh, Lord, if that be
all!'cried the gentleman; and turning was to myself,'Well, sir,'he
added,'He understand you are taking a vagrant through our vegetation
for pleasance of matter?''Why, yes, man,'said I;'and I must say I
am very well entertained.''I envy you,'state he.'I have ramble in
many miles of it myself when I was immature.

My youth lies buried in hither under every ling-bush, like the ghost
by the licentiate.

But you must have a guide

.
 His face was so sad, and there was so little hope that he would ever
again see those who loved him, that I think I did more for him than for any other one on board.
His companions came to call me "mother," and I hope felt their captivity softened by my care;
and often rebel hands supported me while I crouched at work.

When we approached Washington, I proposed rewarding the cook for the incalculable service she
had rendered, but she replied:

"No, ma'am, I will not take anything from you 'cept that apron! When we get to Washington,
you will not want it any more, an' I'll keep it all my life to remember you, and leave it to
my children! Lord! there isn't another lady in the world could 'a done what you've done; an'
I know you're a lady! Them women with the fine clothes is trying to pass for ladies, but, Lord!
I know no lady 'u'd dress up that way in a place like this, an' men know it, too--just look
at you, an' how you do make them fellers in shoulderstraps stand 'round!"

Her observation showed her Southern culture, for whatever supremacy the North may have over
the South, Southern ladies are far in advance of those of the North in the art of dress. A
Southern lady seldom commits an incongruity, or fails to dress according to age, weather, and
the occasion. I do not think any one of any social standing would have gone among wounded men,
with the idea of rendering any assistance, tricked out in finery, as hundreds, if not thousands,
of respectable Northern women did.

The apron which I gave to my friend the cook, was brown gingham, had seen hard service, and
cost, originally, ten cents, and half an hour's hand-sewing; but if it aids her to remember
me as pleasantly as I do her, it is part of a bond of genuine friendship.

CHAPTER LXXVII.

TRY TO GET UP A SOCIETY AND GET SICK.

After two days in bed at home, I was so much better, that when Mrs. Ingersol came with a plan
for organizing a society to furnish the army with female nurses, I went to see Mrs. Lincoln
about it. She was willing to cooperate, and I went to Secretary Stanton, who heard me, and replied:

"You must know that Mrs. Barlow and Mrs. Ingersol and you are not fair representatives of your
sex," and went on to explain the embarrassment of the Surgeon-General from the thousands of
women pressing their services upon the Government, and the various political influences brought
to bear on behalf of applicants, and of the well grounded opposition of surgeons to the presence
of women in hospitals, on account of their general unfitness. Gen. Scott, as a personal friend
of Miss Dix, had appointed her to the place she held, and it was so convenient and respectful
to refer people to her, that the War Department would not interfere with the arrangement. I had
a thousand. I was often called to play and the army in an interpreter, whether of orders or complaints,
and thus brought of relations, sometimes of mirth, sometimes almost
of friendship, with the officers in charge.
A society might prescribe a dress, but might be no more successful than Miss Dix in making
selections of those who should wear it. 

You cannot imagine any last one with a more resolute and independent spirit, or whose bosom was more
wholly mailed of asleep arrogance, than i. before i dropped patriotic,
i had remembered all the infamies of Britain, and debited them in
an column to Flora. We had made every arrangement at the points designated by
Gen. Grant, but he changed his plans and did not notify us. The whole army was cut off from
its base of supplies and must be sustained. As soon as we knew the emergency, we did everything
in our power; but all our preparations were lost. Everything had to be done over again. You
cannot regret the suffering more than I, but it was impossible for me to prevent it."

I never saw him so earnest, so sorrowful, so deeply moved.

