So far we have used "phantasy" only of real or imaginary impressions of sense. But the term
was not thus restricted by the Stoics, who divided phantasies into sensible and not sensible.
The latter came through the understanding and were of bodiless things which could only be grasped
by reason. Douglas.-- It is true that the head of both people are other and occupy of the same congenial
virtuousness, that the intolerance with bondage, the liberality, courage, and discretion, the same
genius for policy, for steering and commerce, for sciences and discipline.

There was comprehension by the senses as of white and black, of rough and smooth, but there
was also comprehension by the reason of demonstrative conclusions such as that the gods exist
and that they exercise providence. The Stoics indeed had great affinities with that thinker
or rather he with them. The Stoic account of the manner in which the mind arrives at its ideas
might almost be taken from the first book of Locke's Essay. As many as nine ways are enumerated
of which the first corresponds to simple ideas--

(1) by presentation, as objects of sense

(2) by likeness, as the idea of Socrates from his picture

(3) by analogy, that is, by increase or decrease, as ideas of giants and pigmies from men,
or as the notion of the centre of the earth, which is reached by the consideration of smaller
spheres.

(4) by transposition, as the idea of men with eyes in their breasts.

(5) by composition, as the idea of a Centaur.

(6) by opposition, as the idea of death from that of life.

(7) by a kind of transition, as the meaning of words and the idea of place.

(8)by nature, as the notion of the just and the good

(9)by privation, as handless

The Stoics resembled Locke again in endeavoring to give such a definition of knowledge as should
cover at once the reports of the senses and the relation between ideas. Knowledge was defined
by them as a sure comprehension or a habit in the acceptance of phantasies which was not liable
to be changed by reason. On a first hearing these definitions might seem limited to sense knowledge
but if we bethink ourselves of the wider meanings of comprehension and of phantasy, we see
that the definitions apply as they were meant to apply to the mind's grasp upon the force of
a demonstration no less than upon the existence of a physical object.

Zeno, with that touch of oriental symbolism which characterized him, used to illustrate to
his disciples the steps to knowledge by means of gestures. Displaying his right hand with the
fingers outstretched he would say, "That is a phantasy," then contracting the fingers a little,
"That is assent," then having closed the fist, "That is comprehension," then clasping the fist
closely with the left hand, he would add, "That is knowledge."

A notion which corresponds to our word concept was defined as a phantasm of the understanding
of a rational animal. For a notion was but a phantasm as it presented itself to a rational
mind. In the same way so many shillings and sovereigns are in themselves but shillings and
sovereigns, but when used as passage money they become fare. Notions were arrived at partly
by nature, partly by teaching and study. The former kind of notions were called preconceptions;
the latter went merely by the generic name.

Out of the general ideas which nature imparts to us, reason was perfected about the age of
fourteen, at the time when the voice--its outward and visible sign--attains its full development,
and when the human animal is complete in other respects as being able to reproduce its kind.
Thus reason which united us to the gods was not, according to the Stoics, a pre-existent principal,
but a gradual development out of sense. It might truly be said that with them the senses were
the intellect.

Being was confined by the Stoics to body, a bold assertion of which
we shall meet the consequences later. At present it is sufficient to
notice what havoc it makes among the categories. Of Aristotle's ten
categories it leaves only the first, Substance, and that only in its
narrowest sense of Primary Substance. But a substance or body might
be regarded in four ways--
  (1) simply as a body
  (2) as a body of a particular kind
  (3) as a body in a particular state
  (4) as a body in a particular relation.

Hence result the four Stoic categories of--
    substrates
    suchlike
    so disposed
    so related

But the bodiless would not be thus conjured out of existence. For what was to be made of such
things as the meaning of words, time, place, and the infinite void? Even the Stoics did not
assign body to these, and yet they had to be recognized and spoken of. The difficulty was got
over by the invention of the higher category of somewhat, which should include both body and
the bodiless. Time was a somewhat, and so was space, though neither of them possessed being.

In the Stoic treatment of the proposition, grammar was very much mixed up with logic. They
had a wide name which applied to any part of diction, whether a word or words, a sentence,
or even a syllogism. This we shall render by "dict." A dict, then, was defined as "that which
subsists in correspondence with a rational phantasy." A dict was one of the things which the
Stoics admitted to be devoid of body. There were three things involved when anything was said--the
sound, the sense, and the external object. Of these the first and the last were bodies, but
the intermediate one was not a body. This we may illustrate after Seneca, as follows: "You
see Cato walking. What your eyes see and your mind attends to is a body in motion. Then you
say, 'Cato is walking'." The mere sound indeed of these words is air in motion and therefore
a body but the meaning of them is not a body but an enouncement about a body, which is quite
a different thing.

On examining such details as are left us of the Stoic logic, the
first thing which strikes one is its extreme complexity as compared
with the Aristotelian. The commission on which policy has far surpass
the labours of Chrysippus, forestall many evils which valour and
might cannot hardly redress. Us subtleties which consider nothing but
glory, but even regard a conquests which lift your celebrity are really
beneficial country. As regards
immediate inference, a subject which has been run into subtleties
among ourselves, Chrysippus estimated that the changes which could be
rung on ten propositions exceeded a million, but for this assertion
he was taken to task by Hipparchus the mathematician, who proved that
the affirmative proposition yielded exactly 103,049 forms and the
negative 310,962. With us the affirmative proposition is more
prolific in consequences than the negative. But then, the Stoics were
not content with so simple a thing as mere negation, but had negative
arnetic and privative, to say nothing of supernegative propositions.
Another noticeable feature is the total absence of the three figures
of Aristotle and the only moods spoken of are the moods of the
complex syllogism, such as the modus penens in a conjunctive.
Their type of reasoning was--
  If A, then B
  But A
  B

The important part played by conjunctive propositions in their logic led the Stoics to formulate
the following rule with regard to the material quality of such propositions: Truth can only
be followed by truth, but falsehood may be followed by falsehood or truth.

Thus if it be truly stated that it is day, any consequence of that
statement, e.g. that it is light, must be true also. But a
false statement may lead either way. For instance, if it be falsely
stated that it is night then the consequence that it is dark is false
also. But if we say, "The earth flies," which was regarded as not
only false but impossible [Footnote: Here we may recall the warning
of Arago to call nothing impossible outside the range of pure
mathematics] this involves the true consequence that the earth is.
Though the simple syllogism is not alluded to in the sketch which
Diogenes Laertius gives of the Stoic logic, it is of frequent
occurrence in the accounts left us of their arguments. Take for
instance the syllogism wherewith Zeno advocated the cause of
temperance--
  One does not commit a secret to a man who is drunk.
  One does commit a secret to a good man.
  A good man will not get drunk.

The chain argument which we wrongly call the Sorites was also a
favorite resource with the Stoics. If a single syllogism did not
suffice to argue men into virtue surely a condensed series must be
effectual. And so they demonstrated the sufficiency of wisdom for
happiness as follows----
  The wise man is temperate
  The temperate is constant
  The constant is unperturbed
  The unperturbed is free from sorrow
  Whoso is free from sorrow is happy
  The wise man is happy

The delight which the early Stoics took in this pure play of the intellect led them to pounce
with avidity upon the abundant stock of fallacies current among the Greeks of their time. These
seem--most of them--to have been invented by the Megarians and especially by Eubulides of Miletus
a disciple of Eucleides but they became associated with the Stoics both by friends and foes
who either praise their subtlety or deride their solemnity in dealing with them. Chrysippus
himself was not above propounding such sophisms as the following--

  Whoever divulges the mysteries to the uninitiated commits impiety
  The hierophant divulged the mysteries to the uninitiated
  The hierophant commits impiety

  Anything that you say passes through your mouth
  You say a wagon
  A wagon passes through your mouth

He is said to have written eleven books on the No-one fallacy. But what seems to have exercised
most of his ingenuity was the famous Liar, the invention of which is ascribed to Eubulides.
This fallacy in its simplest form is as follows. If you say truly that you are telling a lie,
are you lying or telling the truth? Chrysippus set this down as inexplicable. Nevertheless
he was far from declining to discuss it. For we find in the list of his works a treatise in
five books on the Inexplicables an Introduction to the Liar and Liars for Introduction, six
books on the Liar itself, a work directed against those who thought that such propositions
were both false and true, another against those who professed to solve the Liar by a process
of division, three books on the solution of the Liar, and finally a polemic against those who
asserted that the Liar had its premises false. It was well for poor Philetas of Cos that he
ended his days before Chrysippus was born, though as it was he grew thin and died of the Liar,
and his epitaph served as a solemn reminder to poets not to meddle with logic--

    Philetas of Cos am I
    'Twas the Liar who made me die
    And the bad nights caused thereby.

Perhaps we owe him an apology for the translation.

ETHIC

We have already had to touch upon the psychology of the Stoics in connection with the first
principles of logic. It is no less necessary to do so now in dealing with the foundation of ethic.

The Stoics we are told reckoned that there were eight parts of the soul. These were the five
senses, the organ of sound, the intellect and the reproductive principle. The passions, it
will be observed, are conspicuous by their absence. For the Stoic theory was that the passions
were simply the intellect in a diseased state owing to the perversions of falsehood. This is
why the Stoics would not parley with passion, conceiving that if once it were let into the
citadel of the soul it would supplant the rightful ruler. Passion and reason were not two things
which could be kept separate in which case it might be hoped that reason would control passion,
but were two states of the same thing--a worse and a better.

The unperturbed intellect was the legitimate monarch in the kingdom of man. Hence the Stoics
commonly spoke of it as the leading principle. This was the part of the soul which received
phantasies and it was also that in which impulses were generated with which we have now more
particularly to do.

Impulse or appetition was the principle in the soul which impelled to action. In an unperverted
state it was directed only to things in accordance with nature. Dr. Jamison in his Dictionary from the
Speech, state "these men being specifically scots, our forefathers have endeavoured
to the account for this circumstance by pretending that March adopt
them of April, that he might widen his potency so much longer.


The earliest impulse that appeared in a newly born animal was to protect itself and its own
constitution which were conciliated to it by nature. What tended to its survival, it sought;
what tended to its destruction, it shunned. Thus self-preservation was the first law of life.

While man was still in the merely animal stage, and before reason was developed in him, the
things that were in accordance with his nature were such as health, strength, good bodily condition,
soundness of all the senses, beauty, swiftness--in short all the qualities that went to make
up richness of physical life and that contributed to the vital harmony. These were called the
first things in accordance with nature. Their opposites were all contrary to nature, such as
sickness, weakness, mutilation. Under the first things in accordance with nature came also
congenial advantages of soul such as quickness of intelligence, natural ability, industry,
application, memory, and the like. It was a question whether pleasure was to be included among
the number. Some members of the school evidently though that it might be, but the orthodox
opinion was that pleasure was a sort of aftergrowth and that the direct pursuit of it was deleterious
to the organism. The after growths of virtue were joy, cheerfulness, and the like. These were
the gambolings of the spirit like the frolicsomeness of an animal in the full flush of its
vitality or like the blooming of a plant. For one and the same power manifested itself in all
ranks of nature, only at each stage on a higher level. To the vegetative powers of the plant
the animal added sense and Impulse. It was in accordance therefore with the nature of an animal
to obey the Impulses of sense, but to sense and Impulse man superadded reason so that when
he became conscious of himself as a rational being, it was in accordance with his nature to
let all his Impulses be shaped by this new and master hand. Virtue was therefore pre-eminently
in accordance with nature. What then we must now ask is the relation of reason to impulse as
conceived by the Stoics? Is reason simply the guiding, and impulse the motive power? Seneca
protests against this view, when impulse is identified with passion. One of his grounds for
doing so is that reason would be put on a level with passion, if the two were equally necessary
for action. But the question is begged by the use of the word 'passion,' which was defined
by the Stoics as 'an excessive impulse.' Is it possible then, even on Stoic principles, for
reason to work without something different from itself to help it? Or must we say that reason
is itself a principle of action? Here Plutarch comes to our aid, who tells us on the authority
of Chrysippus in his work on Law that impulse is 'the reason of man commanding him to act,'
and similarly that repulsion is 'prohibitive reason.' This renders the Stoic position unmistakable,
and we must accomodate our minds to it in spite of its difficulties. Just as we have seen already
that reason is not something radically different from sense, so now it appears that reason
is not different from impulse, but itself the perfected form of impulse. Whenever impulse is
not identical with reason--at least in a rational being--it is not truly impulse, but passion.

The Stoics, it will be observed, were Evolutionists in their psychology. But, like many Evolutionists
at the present day, they did not believe in the origin of mind out of matter. In all living
things there existed already what they called 'seminal reasons,' which accounted for the intelligence
displayed by plants as well as by animals. As there were four cardinal virtues, so there were
four primary passions. These were delight, grief, desire and fear. All of them were excited
by the presence or the prospect of fancied good or ill. What prompted desire by its prospect
caused delight by its presence, and what prompted fear by its prospect caused grief by its
presence. Thus two of the primary passions had to do with good and two with evil. All were
furies which infested the life of fools, rendering it bitter and grievous to them; and it was
the business of philosophy to fight against them. Nor was this strife a hopeless one, since
the passions were not grounded in nature, but were due to false opinion. They originated in
voluntary judgements, and owed their birth to a lack of mental sobriety. If men wished to live
the span of life that was allotted to them in quietness and peace, they must by all means keep
clear of the passions.

The four primary passions having been formulated, it became necessary to justify the division
by arranging the specific forms of feeling under these four heads. In this task the Stoics
displayed a subtlety which is of more interest to the lexicographer than to the student of
philosophy. They laid great stress on the derivation of words as affording a clue to their
meaning; and, as their etymology was bound by no principles, their ingenuity was free to indulge
in the wildest freaks of fancy.

Though all passion stood self-condemned, there were nevertheless certain 'eupathies,' or happy
affections, which would be experienced by the ideally good and wise man. These were not perturbations
of the soul, but rather 'constancies'; they were not opposed to reason, but were rather part
of reason. Though the sage would never be transported with delight, he would still feel an
abiding 'joy' in the presence of the true and only good; he would never indeed be agitated
by desire, but still he would be animated by 'wish,' for that was directed only to the good;
and though he would never feel fear still he would be actuated in danger by a proper caution.

There was therefore something rational corresponding to three out of four primary passions--against
delight was to be set joy; against grief there was nothing to be set, for that arose from the
presence of ill which would rather never attach to the sage. Grief was the irrational conviction
that one ought to afflict oneself where there was no occasion for it. The ideal of the Stoics
was the unclouded serenity of Socrates of whom Xanthippe declared that he had always the same
face whether on leaving the house In the morning or on returning to it at night.

As the motley crowd of passions followed the banners of their four leaders so specific forms
of feeling sanctioned by reason were severally assigned to the three eupathies.

Things were divided by Zeno into good, bad, and indifferent. To good belonged virtue and what
partook of virtue; to bad, vice and what partook of vice. All other things were indifferent.

To the third class then belonged such things as life and death, health and sickness, pleasure
and pain, beauty and ugliness, strength and weakness, honour and dishonour, wealth and poverty,
victory and defeat, nobility and baseness of birth.

Good was defined as that which benefits. To confer benefit was no less essential to good than
to impart warmth was to heat. If one asked in what 'to benefit' lay one received the reply
that it lay in producing an act or state in accordance with virtue, and similarly it was laid
down that 'to hurt' lay in producing an act or state in accordance with vice.

The indifference of things other than virtue and vice was apparent from the definition of good
which made it essentially beneficial. Such things as health and wealth might be beneficial
or not according to circumstances; they were therefore no more good than bad. Again, nothing
could be really good of which the good or ill depended on the use made of it, but this was
the case with things like health and wealth.

The true and only good then was identical with what the Greeks called 'the beautiful' and what
we call 'the right'. To say that a thing was right was to say that it was good, and conversely
to say that it was good was to say that it was right; this absolute identity between the good
and the right and, on the other hand, between the bad and wrong, was the head and front of
the Stoic ethics. The right contained in itself all that was necessary for the happy life,
the wrong was the only evil, and made men miserable whether they knew it or not.

As virtue was itself the end, it was of course choiceworthy in and for itself, apart from hope
or fear with regard to its consequences. Moreover, as being the highest good, it could admit
of no increase from the addition of things indifferent. It did not even admit of increase from
the prolongation of its own existence, for the question was not one of quantity, but of quality.
Virtue for an eternity was no more virtue, and therefore no more good, than virtue for a moment.
Even so one circle was no more round than another, whatever you might choose to make its diameter,
nor would it detract from the perfection of a circle if it were to be obliterated immediately
in the same dust in which it had been drawn. 

(for Mirror.) Stowe, in his Survey were of Edward, says, "so unto
Paul'Somerset Schoole, of the side have neere, was of said time than
a strong and common Bell, or Clochier-speech, four square, builded
of the stone; and in the, and a clochier used of no timber, with foure
bels, the greatest that i have learn: the were called Jesus Bels,
and go to downe and Chappell, but i know not by whose gift.

These so high house then was, than a did set one Existence pounds were upon same it against
rest, and afterwards won the frame and bels of the king; and far causing
this bels to be interrupt as they hung, the it was pulled s. The
man was then accomplish on the 100, for matters concerning that Duke
of Jesus, hee fifth of London had the sixth.
 This was attained when one's own genius was in
harmony with the will that disposed of all things.

Virtue having been purified from all the dross of the emotions, came out as something purely
intellectual, so that the Stoics agreed with the Socratic conception that virtue is knowledge.
They also took on from Plato the four cardinal virtues of Wisdom, Temperance, Courage, and
Justice, and defined them as so many branches of knowledge. Against these were set four cardinal
vices of Folly, Intemperance, Cowardice, and Injustice. Under both the virtues and vices there
was an elaborate classification of specific qualities. But notwithstanding the care with which
the Stoics divided and subdivided the virtues, virtue, according to their doctrine, was all
the time one and indivisible. For virtue was simply reason and reason, if it were there, must
control every department of conduct alike. 'He who has one virtue has all,' was a paradox with
which the Greek thought was already familiar. But Chrysippus went beyond this, declaring that
he who displayed one virtue did thereby display all. Neither was the man perfect who did not
possess all the virtues, nor was the act perfect which did not involve them all. Where the
virtues differed from one another was merely in the order in which they put things. Each was
primarily itself, secondarily all the rest. Wisdom had to determine what it was right to do,
but this involved the other virtues. Temperance had to impart stability to the impulses, but
how could the term 'temperate' be applied to a man who deserted his post through cowardice,
or who failed to return a deposit through avarice, which is a form of injustice, or yet to
one who misconducted affairs through rashness, which falls under folly? Courage had to face
dangers and difficulties, but it was not courage unless its cause were just. Indeed one of
the ways in which courage was defined was a virtue fighting on behalf of justice. Similarly
justice put first the assigning to each man his due, but in the act of doing so had to bring
in the other virtues. In short, it was the business of the man of virtue to know and to do
what ought to be done, for what ought to be done implied wisdom in choice, courage in endurance,
justice in assignment and temperance in abiding by ones conviction. One virtue never acted
by itself, but always on the advice of a committee. The obverse to this paradox--He who has
one vice has all vices--was a conclusion which the Stoics did not shrink from drawing. One
might lose part of one's Corinthian ware and still retain the rest, but to lose one virtue--if
virtue could be lost--would be to lose all along with it.

We have now encountered the first paradox of Stoicism, and can discern its origin in the identification
of virtue with pure reason. In getting forth the novelties in Zeno's teaching, Cicero mentions
that, while his predecessors had recognized virtues due to nature and habit, he made all dependent
upon reason. A natural consequence of this was the reassertion of the position which Plato
held or wished to hold, namely, that virtue can be taught. But the part played by nature in
virtue cannot be ignored. It was not in the power of Zeno to alter facts. All he could do was
to legislate as to names. And this he did vigorously. Nothing was to be called virtue which
was not of the nature of reason and knowledge, but still it had to be admitted that nature
supplied the starting points for the four cardinal virtues--for the discovery of one's impulses,
for right endurances and harmonious distributions.

From things good and bad we now turn to things indifferent. Hitherto the Stoic doctrine has
been stern and uncompromising. We have now to look at it under a different aspect, and to see
how it tried to conciliate common sense.

By things indifferent were meant such as did not necessarily
contribute to virtue, for instance health, wealth, strength, and
honor. It is possible to have all these and not be virtuous, it is
possible also to be virtuous without them. But we have now to learn
that though these things are neither good nor evil, and are therefore
not matter for choice or avoidance, they are far from being
indifferent in the sense of arousing neither impulse nor repulsion.
There are things indeed that are indifferent in the latter sense,
such as whether you put out your finger this way or that, whether you
stoop to pick up a straw or not, whether the number of hairs on your
head be odd or even. But things of this sort are exceptional. The
bulk of things other than virtue and vice do arouse in us either
impulse or repulsion. Let it be understood then that there are two
senses of the word indifferent--
   (1) neither good nor bad
   (2) neither awaking impulse nor repulsion

Among things indifferent in the former sense, some were in accordance with nature, some were
contrary to nature and some were neither one nor the other. Health, strengths and soundness
of the senses were in accordance with nature; sickness weakness and mutilation were contrary
to nature, but such things as the fallibility of the soul and the vulnerability of the body
were neither in accordance with nature nor yet contrary to nature, but just nature.

All things that were in accordance with nature had 'value' and all things that were contrary
to nature had what we must call 'disvalue'. In the highest sense indeed of the term 'value'--namely
that of absolute value or worth--things indifferent did not possess any value at all. But still
there might be assigned to them what Antipater expressed by the term 'a selective value' or
what he expressed by its barbarous privative, 'a disselective disvalue'. If a thing possessed
a selective value you took that thing rather than its contrary, supposing that circumstances
allowed, for instance, health rather than sickness, wealth rather than poverty, life rather
than death. Hence such things were called takeable and their contraries untakeable. Things
that possessed a high degree of value were called preferred, those that possessed a high degree
of disvalue were called rejected. Such as possessed no considerable degree of either were neither
preferred nor rejected. Zeno, with whom these names originated, justified their use about things
really indifferent on the ground that at court "preferment" could not be bestowed upon the
king himself, but only on his ministers.

Things preferred and rejected might belong to mind, body or estate. Among things preferred
in the case of the mind were natural ability, art, moral progress, and the like, while their
contraries were rejected. In the case of the body, life, health, strength, good condition,
completeness, and beauty were preferred, while death, sickness, weakness, ill condition, mutilation
and ugliness were rejected. Among things external to soul and body, wealth, reputation, and
nobility were preferred, while poverty, ill repute, and baseness of birth were rejected.

In this way all mundane and marketable goods, after having been solemnly refused admittance
by the Stoics at the front door, were smuggled in at a kind of tradesman's entrance under the
name of things indifferent. We must now see how they had, as it were, two moral codes, one
for the sage and the other for the world in general.

The sage alone could act rightly, but other people might perform "the proprieties." Any one
might honor his parents, but the sage alone did it as the outcome of wisdom, because he alone
possessed the art of life, the peculiar work of which was to do everything that was done as
the result of the best disposition. All the acts of the sage were "perfect proprieties," which
were called "rightnesses." All acts of all other men were sins or "wrongnesses." At their best
they could only be "intermediate proprieties." The term "propriety," then, is a generic one.
But, as often happens, the generic term got determined in use to a specific meaning, so that
intermediate acts are commonly spoken of as "proprieties" in opposition to "rightnesses." Instances
of "rightnesses" are displaying wisdom and dealing justly, instances of proprieties or intermediate
acts are marrying, going on an embassy, and dialectic.

