But Andrew stood well outside the party cabals that were hatched at Washington. He and his
gave the conspirators a hearing from a reason widely different from any of theirs. They distrusted
the Executive Committee. The argument that had swept the Committee for the moment off its feet
filled the stern New Englanders with scorn. They were prompt to deny any sympathy with the
armistice movement.(5) As Andrew put it, the chief danger of the hour was the influence of
the Executive Committee on the President, whom he persisted in considering a weak man; the
chief duty of the hour was to "rescue" Lincoln, or in some other way to "check the peace movement
of the Republican managers."(6) if it were fairly certain that this could be effected only
by putting the conspiracy through, Andrew would come in. But could he be clear in his own mind
that this was the thing to do? While he hesitated, Jaquess and Gilmore did their last small
part in American history and left the stage. They made a tour of the Northern States explaining
to the various governors the purposes of their mission to Richmond, and reporting in full their
audience with Davis and the impressions they had formed.(7) This was a point in favor of Lincoln--as
Andrew thought. On the other hand, there were the editorials of The Times. As late as the twenty-fourth
of August, the day before the Washington conference, The Times asserted that the President
would waive all the objects for which the war had been fought, including Abolition, if any
proposition of peace should come that embraced the integrity of the Union. To be sure, this
was not consistent with the report of Jaquess and Gilmore and their statement of terms actually
set down by Lincoln. And yet--it came from the Administration organ edited by the chairman
of the Executive Committee. Was "rescue" of the President anything more than a dream?

It was just here that Lincoln intervened and revolutionized the whole situation. With what
tense interest Andrew must have waited for reports of that conference held at Washington on
the twenty-fifth. And with what delight he must have received them! The publication on the
twenty-sixth of the sweeping repudiation of the negotiation policy; the reassertion that the
Administration's "sole and undivided purpose was to prosecute the war." Simultaneous was another
announcement, also in the minds of the New Englanders, of first importance: "So far as there
being any probability of President Lincoln withdrawing from the canvass, as some have suggested,
the gentlemen comprising the Committee express themselves as confident of his reelection."(8)

Meanwhile the letters asking for signatures to the pro-posed "call" had been circulated and
the time had come to take stock of the result From Ohio, Wade had written in a sanguine mood.
He was for issuing the call the moment the Democratic Convention had taken action.(9) On the
twenty-ninth that convention met. On the thirtieth, the conspirators reassembled--again at
the house of David Dudley Field--and Andrew attended. He had not committed himself either way.

And now Lincoln's firmness with the Executive Committee had its reward. The New Englanders
had made up their minds. Personally, he was still obnoxious to them; but in light of his recent
pronouncement, they would take their chances on "rescuing" him from the Committee; and since
he would not withdraw, they would not cooperate in splitting the Union party. But they could
not convince the conspirators. A long debate ended in an agreement to disagree. The New Englanders
withdrew, confessed partisans of Lincoln.(10) It was the beginning of the end.

Andrew went back to Boston to organize New England for Lincoln. J. M. Forbes remained to organize
New York.(11) All this, ignoring the Executive Committee. It was a new Lincoln propaganda,
not in opposition to the Committee but in frank rivalry: "Since, or if, we must have Lincoln,"
said Andrew, "men of motive and ideas must get into the lead, must elect him, get hold of 'the
machine' and 'run it' themselves."(12)

The bottom was out of the conspiracy; but the leaders at New York were slow to yield.

Some of the outlying conspirators also suffered a revival of hope. The Cincinnati Gazette came
out flat foot for the withdrawal of Lincoln.(13) So did The Cincinnati Times, pressing hard
for the new convention.(14) On the second of September, three New York editors, Greeley for
The Tribune, Parke Godwin for The Post, and Tilton for The Independent, were busily concocting
a circular letter to Governors of the States with a view to saving the conspiracy.(15)

But other men were at work in a different fashion, that same day. Lincoln's cause had been
wrecked so frequently by his generals that whenever a general advanced, the event seems boldly
dramatic. While the politicians at New York and Chicago thought they were loading the scales
of fate, long lines of men in blue were moving through broken woodland and over neglected fields
against the gray legions defending Atlanta. The newspapers from one to four inches were long, the pinnae
dashed about 1/ 4 of 1/ 2 inch, alternate. The rachis of stem is divided into distinct internodes,
from each fateful Macon of which are given off two pinnae, and upon which are besides placed usually
six cells, three on side. The pinnae are also lateral, but forestall less distinctly, into internodes
of various lengths. The brace of cells on pinnae are all secund, and round contact with other
bases, though widely divergent above it. 15.

S. tridentata, n. sp. Cells
would urceolate, to ventricose below, undertake towards sherman.
Mouth that looking forwards and outwards, circular, ringing with acute
teeth, two divided newspapers, longer that the third, which is taken
above. West was somehow pinnate, to 2 1/ 2 inches'high; flint in
from middle 3/ 17 of inch. Forbes "dashed off" a letter to Andrew urging an immediate
demonstration for Lincoln.(17) He was sure the Raymond group would somehow try to use the victory
as a basis for recovering their leadership. Davis was eager to issue the "call" at once.(18)
But his fellows hesitated. And while they hesitated, Andrew and the people acted. On the sixth,
a huge Lincoln rally was held at Faneul Hall. Andrew presided. Sumner spoke.(19) That same
day, Vermont held State elections and went Republican by a rousing majority. On the day following
occurred the Convention of the Union party of New York. Enthusiastic applause was elicited
by a telegram from Vermont. "The first shell that was thrown by Sherman into Atlanta has exploded
in the Copperhead Camp in this State, and the Unionists have poured in a salute with shotted
guns."(20) The mixed metaphors did not reduce the telegram's effect. The New York Convention
formally endorsed Lincoln as the candidate of the Union party for President.

So much for the serious side of the swiftly changing political kaleidoscope. There was also
a comic side. Only three days sufficed--from Davis's eagerness to proceed on the fourth to
letters and articles written or printed on the seventh--only three days, and the leaders of
the conspiracy began turning their coats. A typical letter of the seventh at Syracuse describes
"an interview with Mr. Opdyke this morning, who told me the result of his efforts to obtain
signatures to our call which was by no means encouraging. I have found the same sentiment prevailing
here. A belief that it is too late to make any effectual demonstration, and therefore that
it is not wise to attempt any. I presume that the new-born enthusiasm created by the Atlanta
news will so encourage Lincoln that he can not be persuaded to withdraw."(21) Two days more
and the anti-Lincoln newspapers began to draw in their horns. That Independent, whose editor
had been one of the three in the last ditch but a week before, handsomely recanted, scuttling
across to what now seemed the winning side. "The prospect of victory is brilliant. If a fortnight
ago the prospect of Mr. Lincoln's reelection seemed doubtful, the case is now changed. The
odious character of the Chicago platform, the sunshiny effect of the late victories, have rekindled
the old enthusiasm in loyal hearts."(22) One day more, and Greeley sullenly took his medicine.
The Tribune began printing "The Union Ticket--for President, Abraham Lincoln."

There remains the most diverting instance of the haste with which coats were turned. On the
sixth of September, only three days after Atlanta!--the very day of the great Lincoln rally,
the crown of Andrew's generalship, at Fanuel Hall--a report was sent out from Washington that
"Senator Wade is to take the stump for Mr. Lincoln."(23) Less than a week later The Washington
Chronicle had learned "with satisfaction, though not with surprise, that Senator Wade, notwithstanding
his signature to a celebrated Manifesto, had enrolled himself among the Lincoln forces."(24)
Exactly two weeks after Atlanta, Wade made his first speech for Lincoln as President. It was
a "terrific assault upon the Copperhead policy."(25)

The ship of the conspiracy was sinking fast, and on every hand was heard a scurrying patter
of escaping politicians.

XXXIV. "FATHER ABRAHAM"

The key-notes of Lincoln's course with the Executive Committee, his refusal to do anything
that appeared to him to be futile, his firmness not to cast about and experiment after a policy,
his basing of all his plans on the vision in his own mind of their sure fruitage--these continued
to be his key-notes throughout the campaign. They ruled his action in a difficult matter with
which he was quickly forced to deal.

Montgomery Blair, the Postmaster General, was widely and bitterly disliked. Originally a radical
Republican, he had quarreled with that wing of the party. In 1863 the Union League of Philadelphia,
which elected all the rest of the Cabinet honorary members of its organization, omitted Blair.
A reference to the Cabinet in the Union platform of 1864 was supposed to be a hint that the
Postmaster General would serve his country, if he resigned. During the dark days of the summer
of 1864, the President's mail was filled with supplications for the dismissal of Blair.(1)
He was described as an incubus that might cause the defeat of the Administration.

If the President's secretaries were not prejudiced witnesses, Blair had worn out his welcome
in the Cabinet. He had grown suspicious. He tried to make Lincoln believe that Seward was plotting
with the Copperheads. Nevertheless, Lincoln turned a deaf ear to the clamor against him. Merely
personal considerations were not compelling. If it was true, as for a while he believed it
was, that his election was already lost, he did not propose to throw Blair over as a mere experiment.
True to his principles he would not become a juggler with futility.

The turn of the tide in his favor put the matter in a new light. All the enemies of Blair renewed
their attack on a slightly different line. One of those powerful New Englanders who had come
to Lincoln's aid at such an opportune moment led off. Lincoln debated this in his own mind
nearly three weeks.

Meanwhile, various other politicians joined the hue and cry. An old friend of Lincoln's, Ebenezer
Peck, came east from Illinois to work upon him against Blair.(3) Chandler, who like Wade was
eager to get out of the wrong ship, appeared at Washington as a friend of the Administration
and an enemy of Blair.(4) But still Lincoln did not respond. After all, was it certain that
one of these votes would change if Blair did not resign? Would anything be accomplished, should
Lincoln require his resignation, except the humiliation of a friend, the gratification of a
pack of malcontents? And then some one thought of a mode for giving definite political value
to Blair's removal. Who did it? The anonymous author of the only biography of Chandler claims
this doubtful honor for the great Jacobin. Lincoln's secretaries, including Colonel Stoddard
who had charge of his correspondence, are ignorant on the subject.(5) It may well have been
Chandler who negotiated a bargain with Fremont, if the story is to be trusted, which concerned
Blair. A long-standing, relentless quarrel separated these two. That Fremont as a candidate
was nobody had long been apparent; and yet it was worth while to get rid of him. Chandler,
or another, extracted a promise from Fremont that if Blair were removed, he would resign. On
the strength of this promise, a last appeal was made to Lincoln. Such is the legend. The known
fact is that on September twenty-second Fremont withdrew his candidacy. Blair at once tendered
his resignation: "I can not take leave of you," said he, "without renewing the expression of
my gratitude for the uniform kindness which has marked your course with regard to myself."(7)
That he was not perfunctory, that his great chief had acquired over him an ascendency which
was superior to any strain, was demonstrated a few days later in New York. On the twenty-seventh,
Cooper Institute was filled with an enthusiastic Lincoln meeting. Blair was a speaker. He was
received with loud cheers and took occasion to touch upon his relations with the President.
"I retired," said he, "on the recommendation of my own father. My father has passed that period
of life when its honors or its rewards, or its glories have any charm for him. He looks backward
only, and forward only, to the grandeur of this nation and the happiness of this great people
who have grown up under the prosperous condition of the Union; and he would not permit a son
of his to stand in the way of the glorious and patriotic President who leads us on to success
and to the final triumph that is in store for us."(8)

It was characteristic of this ultimate Lincoln that he offered no explanations, even in terminating
the career of a minister; that he gave no confidences. Gently inexorable, he imposed his will
in apparent unconsciousness that it might be questioned. Along with his overmastering kindness,
he had something of the objectivity of a natural force. It was the mood attained by a few extraordinary
men who have reached a point where, without becoming egoists, they no longer distinguish between
themselves and circumstance; the mood of those creative artists who have lost themselves, in
the strange way which the dreamers have, who have also found themselves.

Even in the new fascination of the probable turn of the tide, Lincoln did not waver in his
fixed purpose to give all his best energies, and the country's best energies, to the war. In
October, there was a new panic over the draft. Cameron implored him to suspend it in Pennsylvania
until after the presidential election. An Ohio committee went to Washington with the same request.
Why should not the arguments that had prevailed with him, or were supposed to have prevailed
with him, for the removal of a minister, prevail also in the way of a brief flagging of military
preparation? But Lincoln would not look upon the two cases in the same spirit. "What is the
Presidency worth to me," he asked the Ohio committee, "if I have no country ?"(9)

From the active campaign he held himself aloof. He made no political speeches. He wrote no
political letters. The army received his constant detailed attention. In his letters to Grant,
he besought him to be unwavering in a relentless persistency.

As Hay records, he was aging rapidly. The immense strain of his labor was beginning to tell
both in his features and his expression. He was moving in a shadow. But his old habit of merriment
had not left him; though it was now, more often, a surface merriment. On the night of the October
elections, Lincoln sat in the telegraph room of the War Office while the reports were coming
in. "The President in a lull of despatches, took from his pocket the Naseby Papers and read
several chapters of the Saint and Martyr, Petroleum V. They were immensely amusing. Stanton
and Dana enjoyed them scarcely less than the President, who read on, con amore, until nine
o'clock."(10)

The presidential election was held on the eighth of November. That night, Lincoln with his
Secretary was again in the War Office. The early returns showed that the whole North was turning
to him in enormous majorities. He showed no exultation. When the Assistant Secretary of the
Navy spoke sharply of the complete effacement politically of Henry Winter Davis against whom
he had a grudge, Lincoln said, "You have more of that feeling of personal resentment than I.
Perhaps I have too little of it; but I never thought it paid. A man has no time to spend half
his life in quarrels. If any man ceases to attack me I never remember the past against him."(11)

"Towards midnight," says Hay in his diary, "we had supper. The President went awkwardly and
hospitably to work shovelling out the fried oysters. He was most agreeable and genial all the
evening. . . . Captain Thomas came up with a band about half-past two and made some music.
What most impressed the secretaries was his complete freedom from elation. "He seemed to deprecate
his own triumph and sympathize rather with the beaten than the victorious party." His formal
recognition of the event was a prepared reply to a serenade on the night of November tenth.
A great crowd filled the space in front of the north portico of the White House. Lincoln appeared
at a window. A secretary stood at his side holding a lighted candle while he read from a manuscript.
The brief address is justly ranked among his ablest occasional utterances. As to the mode of
the deliverance, he said to Hay, "Not very graceful, but I am growing old enough not to care
much for the manner of doing things."(14)

XXXV. THE MASTER OF THE MOMENT

In Lincoln's life there are two great achievements.

One he brought to pass in time for him to behold his own victory. The other he saw only with
the eyes of faith. The first was the drawing together of all the elements of nationalism in
the American people and consolidating them into a driving force. The second was laying the
foundation of a political temper that made impossible a permanent victory for the Vindictives.
It was the sad fate of this nation, because Lincoln's hand was struck from the tiller at the
very instant of the crisis, to suffer the temporary success of that faction he strove so hard
to destroy. The transitoriness of their evil triumph, the eventual rally of the nation against
them, was the final victory of the spirit of Lincoln.

The immediate victory he appreciated more fully and measured more exactly, than did any one
else. He put it into words in the fifth message. While others were crowing with exaltation
over a party triumph, he looked deeper to the psychological triumph. Scarcely another saw that
the most significant detail of the hour was in the Democratic attitude. Even the bitterest
enemies of nationalism, even those who were believed by all others to desire the breaking of
the Union, had not thought it safe to say so. They had veiled their intent in specious words.
McClellan in accepting the Democratic nomination had repudiated the idea of disunion. Cross the SOUTH
ATLANTIC. The untouched character, however, can scarcely be considered as fully formed; the
Brazilians have been too recently modified from the thraldom of a national despotism to have
made, as still, any very great progress in developing the elements of national prosperity and
greatness which the vast empire of Brazil so abundantly possesses, and the foul blot of slavery, with
its debasing influence, yet remains emancipated.

On February 2nd we sailed from Rio of the Cape of good Hope.

 Chase's course during the summer had made things worse. He had played the time-server.
No one was more severe upon Lincoln in July; in August, he hesitated, would not quite commit
himself to the conspiracy but would not discourage it; almost gave it his blessing; in September,
but not until it was quite plain that the conspiracy was failing, he came out for Lincoln.
However, his friends in the Senate overcame their embarrassment--how else could it be with
Senators?--and pressed his case. And when Senator Wilson, alarmed at the President's silence,
tried to apologize for Chase's harsh remarks about the President, Lincoln cut him short. "Oh,
as to that, I care nothing," said he. The embarrassment of the Chase propaganda amused him.
When Chase himself took a hand and wrote him a letter, Lincoln said to his secretary, "What
is it about?" "Simply a kind and friendly letter," replied the secretary. Lincoln smiled. "File
it with the other recommendations," said he.(2)

He regarded Chase as a great lawyer, Taney's logical successor. All the slights the Secretary
had put upon the President, the intrigues to supplant him, the malicious sayings, were as if
they had never occurred. When Congress assembled, it was Chase's name that he sent to the Senate.
It was Chase who, as Chief Justice, administered the oath at Lincoln's second inauguration.

Long since, Lincoln had seen that there had ceased to any half-way house in the matter of emancipation.
His thoughts were chiefly upon the future. And as mere strategy, he saw that slavery had to
be got out of the way. It was no longer a question, who liked this, who did not. To him, the
ultimate issue was the restoration of harmony among the States. Those States which had been
defeated in the dread arbitrament of battle, would in any event encounter difficulties, even
deadly perils, in the narrow way which must come after defeat and which might or might not
lead to rehabilitation.

Remembering the Vindictive temper, remembering the force and courage of the Vindictive leaders,
it was imperative to clear the field of the slavery issue before the reconstruction issue was
fairly launched. It was highly desirable to commit to the support of the governments the whole
range of influences that were in earnest about emancipation. Furthermore, the South itself
was drifting in the same direction. In his interview with Gilmore and Jaquess, Davis had said:
"You have already emancipated nearly two millions of our slaves; and if you will take care
of them, you may emancipate the rest. I had a few when the war began. I was of some use to
them; they never were of any to me."(3)

The Southern President had "felt" his constituency on the subject of enrolling slaves as soldiers
with a promise of emancipation as the reward of military service.

The fifth message urged Congress to submit to the States an amendment to the Constitution abolishing
slavery. Such action had been considered in the previous session, but nothing had been done.
At Lincoln's suggestion, it had been recommended in the platform of the Union party. Now, with
the President's powerful influence behind it, with his prestige at full circle, the amendment
was rapidly pushed forward. Before January ended, it had been approved by both Houses. Lincoln
had used all his personal influence to strengthen its chances in Congress where, until the
last minute, the vote was still in doubt.(4)

While the amendment was taking its way through Congress, a shrewd old politician who thought
he knew the world better than most men, that Montgomery Blair, Senior, who was father of the
Postmaster General, had been trying on his own responsibility to open negotiations between
Washington and Richmond. His visionary ideas, which were wholly without the results he intended,
have no place here. And yet this fanciful episode had a significance of its own. Had it not
occurred, the Confederate government probably would not have appointed commissioners charged
with the hopeless task of approaching the Federal government for the purpose of negotiating
peace between "the two countries."

Now that Lincoln was entirely in the ascendent at home, and since the Confederate arms had
recently suffered terrible reverses, he was no longer afraid that negotiation might appear
to be the symptom of weakness. He went so far as to consent to meet the Commissioners himself.
On a steamer in Hampton Roads, Lincoln and Seward had a long conference with three members
of the Confederate government, particularly the Vice-President, Alexander H. Stephens.

It has become a tradition that Lincoln wrote at the top of a sheet of paper the one word "Union";
that he pushed it across the table and said, "Stephens, write under that anything you want"
There appears to be no foundation for the tale in this form. The amendment had committed the
North too definitely to emancipation. Lincoln could not have proposed Union without requiring
emancipation, also. And yet, with this limitation, the spirit of the tradition is historic.
There can be no doubt that he presented to the commissioners about the terms which the year
before he had drawn up as a memorandum for Gilmore and Jaquess: Union, the acceptance of emancipation,
but also instantaneous restoration of political autonomy to the Southern States, and all the
influence of the Administration in behalf of liberal compensation for the loss of slave property.
But the commissioners had no authority to consider terms that did not recognize the existence
of "two countries." However, this Hampton Roads Conference gave Lincoln a new hope. He divined,
if he did not perceive, that the Confederates were on the verge of despair. If he had been
a Vindictive, this would have borne fruit in ferocious telegrams to his generals to strike
and spare not. What Lincoln did was to lay before the Cabinet this proposal:--that they advise
Congress to offer the Confederate government the sum of four hundred million dollars, provided
the war end and the States in secession acknowledge the authority of the Federal government
previous to April 1, 1865. But the Cabinet, complete as was his domination in some respects,
were not ripe for such a move as this.

