"My mother used to write me about Bayard's moods, which were now often worse, and never better.
Ah! no one knew what a burden of grief I carried to and from the class-room of Notre Dame Abbey.
Sometimes I felt that only for my mother, death would be a merciful relief, which is a sad
conviction for one so young. One day," she said, lowering her voice almost to a whisper and
folding her thin hands over the white counter-pane "I was praying in the chapel and I began
to think seriously of all my troubles, how dark and gloomy they looked and how weak and cowardly
I seemed! Suddenly a little voice within me began to ask: 'Why don't you make some desperate
effort to save those whose misfortunes are making you so miserable? Why would you not try some
daring sacrifice for instance, so that your brother be set free and the ultimate recovery and
conversion of his wife be obtained?' I hesitated and looked through my gathering tears at the
flickering lamp in the sanctuary. What sacrifice could I make? I had no pleasures, no real
comforts in life--nor the prospect of any--except one, and even that was only a shadowy, misty
hope, the merest uncertainty; but it was my dearest, best-loved fancy, and I could not do more
then than resign it, so I knelt down, Amey, where you and I knelt side by side a few nights
later before you went away, and--" a sob came into her throat and tears dimmed her eyes; my
own were moist in expectation of what was coming. She rested a little, and allowing her tears
to fall unwiped upon her cheeks, she took up the broken thread and added:

"I pledged myself to Our Blessed Lady, in soul and body for all the days of my life, if, by
her holy intercession the double conversions of Bayard and Inez might be accomplished before
I died."

"You mean that you promised--"

"Never to marry," she added eagerly "although at that time, only Heaven knew how I had grown
to love Ernest Dalton. I did not know he was your friend then, Amey. I fancied he had spoken
in a particularly kind way to me and he could not but see how fondly I cherished his every
word and look--but I gave him up--the only sacrifice I had to lay upon that altar of supplication.
Afterwards I saw that what I had done out of solicitude for the welfare of those who are nearest
and dearest to me on earth would, perhaps, have been exacted of me by the cruel irony of fate.
Ernest Dalton loved you all along, I suspected it on that day when we examined his locket together,
and your strange, conscious look when I spoke of him convinced me of it easily."

"Poor Hortense," I muttered in a half sob.--"He is my guardian, my god-father, and the picture
in his locket is not mine at all, it is my mother's."

"Amey! Your mother's?"

"Yes, he loved her years ago before she married my father. There was some misunderstanding
between them and they drifted apart, but he has always been faithful to her memory up to this.
They say I am very like her," I added slowly, folding my hands and looking away towards the
distant gray clouds outside.

"Her living image," said Hortense, wistfully, "if I may judge by that little picture, but you--didn't
you love him too, Amey?" she asked with an eager look, stroking my hand gently with her own
delicate palm.

"It is a time for confessions, Hortense," I answered timidly, "or I should never tell you this,
however, we may as well be frank with one another now. I thought I did, until I had reason
to suspect that you loved him also, from that moment I resigned him to you and refused to think
of him ever again, except as an old, esteemed and devoted friend. I did not know at that time
that he had ever known my mother, nor did I suspect the existence of the close ties that bind
us to one another in a different way. I only knew that in encouraging my regard for him, I
might be trespassing upon the peace and happiness of your life and that is something that Amey
Hampden never would or could do to Hortense de Beaumont above all other living creatures." 

What prompted that Projects, what Curtius, have checked with act themselves? Conceit. It is not
have that foolishness which make commonwealth; through her, empires,
religion, collection-eyes, you exist.

This is bolder and more said when Machiavelli, more detached than Montaigne. But Erasmus will
not have it have credited to him: it is Trait who talk.

Did he were intentionally do us tread the form, as in own saw: a chilling
but old, all Sobs are sobs. Reconditeness to my foolishness as my
reason.

 I would have checked
her, but there were sobs in my own voice, and water in my eyes. At last when I had calmed myself
a little, I stroked her hair kindly and consolingly, entreating her to be quiet and composed.
"You shall harm yourself, with crying, and they will blame me" I urged, "so cheer up like a
good little woman, and be yourself again."

She looked up quickly, as I spoke, the fresh tears trembled on her lids, like dew upon the
petals of some woodland flower, but a smile, as bright as the sun-ray that dispels the dew-drop
broke over her wan and wasted countenance, as she answered:

"Blame you! Oh Amey I have never been so happy, as with you. You have been more than a sister
to me, you have done for me what no one else in the world would have thought of doing for another
but Amey Hampden!"

"It has brought you no benefit, my little woman" I said regretfully, "although I believed your
happiness was partly in my hands at the time."

"It has brought me more than you can ever realize, Amey," she interrupted, falling back among
her pillows, tired from her exertion. "It has held the cup of a soothing friendship to my parched
and fevered lip whose draught has dispelled every sorrow that lay hopeless and heavy upon my
heart. If life could tempt me, now, to return to my former vigour and strength, it need only
hold up to my dying eyes the picture of your unselfish heroism. When one has a friend, such
as you have been, the pleasures of the world have a double sweetness; in a little while" she
added, lowering her voice, and looking away towards the western horizon, into which the setting
sun had begun to dip his yellow rays, "I will have left all these things behind me; the joys
and sorrows of my young life will recede together into the mists of time, as I go on to my
eternity--but, I know there will be some remaining who will carry my memory, the memory of
my little life, that was not more than half spent, through all the years of her own happy one,
someone to pray for me, to commune with me in spirit, even when I have passed into that shadow-land.
And that will be you, my Amey. Perhaps it will comfort you then, to remember that I died in
peace and contentment after all--for my poor prayer has been heard in heaven. When I wrote
you that last letter, about my dawning compensation, I could see that I had not made my sacrifice
in vain, Bayard was changing, every one saw it, resolving himself into the better man, he has
since become, and more than that, Amey--oh, how it thrills me to think of it!" she exclaimed
with reverent ardour "a change has taken place elsewhere! We received a letter from the superintendent
of the asylum where poor Inez is confined, telling us that she had many lucid moments of late,
and that her attendants had frequently found her upon her knees, with streaming eyes and trembling
hands, imploring forgiveness for her past follies. This was soon followed by a second one,
which urged Bayard to go to her: her health and strength were failing, it said, and there were
great hopes of her recovering her senses before death. His name, it further stated, was ever
on her lips.

"Bayard had a terrible struggle with his pride and his passions. He walked the room through
the whole of one livelong night, sighing and moaning, and talking to himself in muttered syllables--mamma
and I could hear him, and he prayed unceasingly, again and again. I renewed my promises and
my life oblation. Towards morning Bayard grew calmer and when the sun rose he unlocked his
door and came to seek us in our seclusion. How pale his handsome face had grown! How wild and
dishevelled his wavy hair! How marked were the lines of misery and care around his mouth and
eyes! He came to my bed and leaned tenderly over me, I could see the traces of his recent conflict
so plainly then."

"'Good-bye, little sister,' he said, 'I am going away for a few days, take care of yourself
during my absence,--and pray for me.' He kissed me with his cold, dry lips and turned away.
When he came back a week later there was a peaceful sadness where his misery had been. He had
seen Inez again; had sat by her death-bed and held her dying hand in generous forgiveness.
He believed her then that she sorely repented of her past. Her dark hair had turned almost
white, and where rich curves of beauty had marked the outlines of her face and form there were
hollows and angles of emaciation and suffering. She died with a pleading for pardon and mercy
upon her lips, and Bayard came back a better man. He says he will devote the remainder of his
life to an atonement for his past, and this is what I have been waiting to hear before I could
die in peace. I cannot presume to say," Hortense added humbly, "that my poor prayers alone
could have brought about these wonderful conversions, but I suppose they have helped, the good
sisters at Notre Dame always told us to 'ask and we should receive,' and I believe them now.
What is the pledge I have made to the fruit it has yielded? The happiness which the world affords
is well lost in such a cause as this. Is it not, my Amey?"

"Indeed it is," I answered earnestly, "but all the same I think you have done the most noble
and heroic of Christian actions in enlisting against your own earthly happiness to favor such
a cause however worthy it may be."

"I do not regret it now, Amey," she said with a sweet, sad smile; "when we look back upon our
lives from the watch-tower of a dawning eternity we are glad to see some noble effort standing
out in relief from all the daily transgressions that confront us. I wish now there were more
such purposes in my empty life."

"This one comprised all others, it seems to me," I put in, earnestly, "you renounced even the
possible and uncertain joys of the world. You lived under the yoke of this voluntary self-sacrifice,
which was bringing you nearer and nearer every day to your reward."

"I have been well repaid," she answered faintly, closing her tired lids wearily, and folding
her hands; after a pause she opened them and continued:

"When they saw how ill I was they sent for Mr. Dalton again, and he came to see me. He told
me you were on your way to visit Miss Merivale, who was to be married in a little while, and
that you were said to be engaged to Doctor Campbell, which was puzzling news to me at that
time. He spoke sympathetically but not regretfully, I thought, of your engagement, and I wondered
more than ever what relationship existed between Ernest Dalton and you. He praised Doctor Campbell
in the highest terms and said that you had 'made a man of him' for life. Bayard was glad to
have Mr. Dalton with us and kept him for several weeks. He left with a promise to return soon
again, I suppose he likes to comfort Bayard while his sorrows are fresh," she added, closing
her eyes languidly and sighing faintly.

Just then Mdme. de Beaumont came in on tip-toe with some tempting morsel for her little invalid.
This broke the strain of confidence, and as Hortense showed symptoms of exhaustion and drowsiness,
after taking her nourishment, we lowered the blinds and stole from the room. In a few moments
she was fast asleep.

CHAPTER XVIII.

By degrees Hortense succumbed to her disease. There were no happy revivals of her old mood
now; no flickering of the old vitality that had brightened other lives besides her own.

She dozed nearly all day long, speaking very little and hardly heeding the questions that were
breathed into her ears. The April thaw had set in and the air was moist and chilly. There was
something cloudy and oppressive in the very atmosphere one breathed, but as the days wore on
the sunshine grew warmer and brighter, and the birds hopping from twig to twig cleared their
little throats and sang forth a merry greeting to the advancing summer-time.

The sunshine that flooded the world without grew warmer and brighter, it is true, but the sunshine
of hope that gladdens sorrow-stricken human hearts in hours of wearisome suspense became colder
and dimmer as each new day confirmed the painful fears of Hortense's friends concerning her
ultimate recovery.

The time had at last arrived when death's dreadful warning rested on every feature of her wasted
countenance. We no longer exchanged cheerful glances of mutual encouragement as we glided in
and out of her chamber. All was solemn and silent as the awful visitor whose advent was now
unmistakably and hopelessly announced.

There were tears, and sobs, and aching hearts that could not plead to Hope now, for Hope had
grown powerless and passive; and so we waited in sorrow and suspense for the dismal day that
was so surely at hand, praying and watching with our loved one while the flame faintly flickered
with a dying effort within her soul.

May came--the bright, golden month of song and sunshine--and still the faint flame flickered,
leaping up at times with a delusive strength and activity, then sinking down again until it
almost expired forever. One afternoon I returned late. I had gone out into the fields in search
of a handful of Mayflowers. I thought they might bring a smile to my darling's lips, and for
hours I had wandered about the open country searching amid the tender early blades for violets--white
or blue.

I was coming back as, the sun began to set, feeling tired and low-spirited. I had found but
a few little flowers, for the season was late, and I was eager to reach my destination with
them while the freshness of their beauty glowed on their tiny leaves. When I stole to her room,
however, the door was partly closed, and Bayard was walking slowly up and down the corridor
outside.

"You cannot go in now," he said in a whisper, laying one hand tenderly upon my shoulder, "Father
Douglas is with her. Go and wait in the little front room," he added "I will call you when
she is alone again."

I turned softly around, and crept on tip-toe to the sitting-room, at the end of the passage;
the door was partly open, and I glided in noiselessly. In an easy chair, by the open window,
with his back towards me, sat Ernest Dalton, alone.

He did not hear me, and I stood with my hand upon the casement, wondering what I had better
do: it was only for a moment, however. He was not the same man to me now, with whom I had parted
so strangely, after my father's death; he was neither Hortense's lover nor mine, but a good
friend to us both; he was my guardian, and the only father I had left.

It seemed strange to me, at that instant, that I ever should have looked upon him differently,
I, who had sat upon his knee in my childhood, and cried myself to sleep within his arms, why
should I shrink from him now, when his shoulders were bending with their burden of sorrow,
and his hair growing silver, with the bitter touches of time? 

The cardinal, are however, as i could not say no moment. Little amount of the class of Dalton Basle
and the council, were already on his side of radical. About sleep after Erasmus, Hands Oecolampadius,
whose first residence at Basel had besides sat with his (at time did he had been helped Erasmus
started from the west for the edition down the Creed), are returned well to the town towards the
intention of the resistance to the order should have thither. In the
council is appointed him have moment towards Place Scripture in the
Body; at the time four catholic academician lost their places.

He dropped at receive hebrew floor for the unlicensed prophesy.


"I am not little Amey any more, Mr. Dalton," I answered, with my hands still in his, and my
eyes turned up to his good, honest face. "I have grown into a great woman since I saw you last;
I have learned many things--sorrowful things; they have told me the story of my mother's life,
and it has changed the whole nature of my own."

"They have told you?--did they tell you all?" he asked in a low, tremulous voice.

"Yes, everything," I answered warmly; "Mrs. Nyle has given me every detail."

He looked at me steadily for a moment in silence, and the tears gathered in his blue eyes--but
they did not fall. When they had gone back again he drew the footstool nearer, and began to
stroke my hair with one gentle hand.

"Amey," he said, "I have been waiting for this day through many a long and lonely year. I might
have hastened it, I suppose, but I could not--however, perhaps it is time enough now. You know,
now," he continued, taking my hands in his again and holding them firmly together, "why I have
watched you, and followed your progress through childhood and girlhood, into your blooming
womanhood. You know why I shared your little joys and sorrows in your youth; why I persuaded
your father to send you to Notre Dame, when I saw how miserable your life was at home. During
your absence I managed to find out the only surviving relative I knew you had. I feared a day
might come when you would find yourself in need of such a friend, and indeed such came to pass.
When you returned from school I met you in the Hartmanns' ball room; I had come in late on
the evening train, and found an invitation among my letters; I knew you had come home, and
expected to find you there, so I hastened thither, and saw you, as you know, first when you
were dancing, and next in the conservatory. I shall never forget how you looked that night,
Amey; it was as if time had rolled its iron portals back, and that forth from the buried past
came the dearest and holiest associations of my life. I saw in you, as plainly as if the 'loved
and lost' one her self had stood before me, the image proud and beautiful, of my first and
only love."

"My mother?" I faltered.

"Your mother," he repeated.

"I remember now," I said, with slow, sad emphasis, "that papa looked strangely at me that night
too, and did what he had not done for years before, he kissed me kindly and tenderly, and muttered
something about my being the 'image of his happy past,' and of his never having seen 'such
a likeness before.'"

"It is little wonder, child," Mr. Dalton answered, looking wistfully into the space between
us. "He loved her, too, poor Hampden--every one did--but I loved her first, and best--yes,
I know I loved her best. How I watched your every look and tone and gesture at this time, Amey,"
he exclaimed eagerly, "they were constantly bringing back my vanished youth, and casting fitful
gleams of sunshine across my wintry track. And you took to me. I could see the reflection of
the old love-light, faint though it was, in the eyes that were only like hers, and not really
hers--yes it was a living pledge of her early love each time you watched for me, and welcomed
me, or singled me out in a crowded room from all the rest. It was her inheritance, that she
left you, wherewith to gladden the life that Fate had urged her to darken,--and you did it,
my little one, though it could never be quite the same."

"I loved you, and watched you jealously, God knows I did, but it was not with that other dead
love, which shall never be revived on earth. In the sight of heaven we belonged to one another,
a pledge is a pledge, in spite of all the subterfuges and impediments of destiny, and we were
pledged to one another. Therefore do I weep my widowed love, as if men had called her mine,
as well as heaven."

"You were the only living reminder of my past to me, and as such I cherished and guarded you.
One day I almost forgot that you were only what you are to me--it was the anniversary of that
betrothal day, and though the winter wind blew cold and fierce without, something of the old
fire glowed anew within my breast. I said to myself as I sauntered along the quiet street,
'I will go and see my other Amey, in commemoration of this eventful day, perhaps she will smile
a familiar smile and speak words of kindness, like those my heart remembers, of long ago.'"

"I went up to the house and asked, as usual, for your father," he said, breaking into a sad
smile. "They told me he was in his library, and with the privileges of an old friend I walked
unceremoniously in. It was nearly dark there, and the fire was smouldering quietly among the
gathering ashes, there was a lounge drawn up before it, on which my 'other' Amey lay sleeping.
My coming in did not disturb her; she never moved, one hand was thrown carelessly over her
shapely head, the other hung down beside her, a rich red glow was on each pretty cheek and
the shadow of a smile upon the lips so like those silent sealed ones that twenty odd years
before had spoken their love into my listening ear.

"I looked down upon her, scarcely daring to breathe, lest the spell be broken. We were alone
in the room--we two, and it was a day pregnant with stirring remembrances for me. Even supposing
the spirit of my loved and lost one kept guard beside her sleeping child, would she check the
honest impulse that seized me at that moment? Would she cover the unconscious lips, that in
deepest reverence and most hallowed and respectful love I stooped and kissed? Would she, Amey--tell
me do you think she would?" he pleaded, with a wistful sadness.

"I don't think so, Mr. Dalton," I replied in solemn earnest. "If things had been otherwise,
no one would have had a better right to do so than you. Even as it is, your faithful, I may
say religious, love for my poor angel-mother recommends you before all others to my everlasting
esteem and affection. Besides--" I added a little playfully--"I am your god-child, you know!"

"I have not forgotten it, bless you '" he answered. "You have her spirit in you," he then muttered,
as if in soliloquy, and then went on to say--

"It was on that day, that I lost this little amulet of mine--this priceless treasure, with
the image of her beauty within, I have worn it for twenty years and more, I shall wear it until
I die! I knew I lost it in that library, and used to assure myself that it was safe, though
I would not mention it to any one. At last, you returned it to me, and I restored it to its
accustomed place. It is all I will have, in a little while, when Arthur Campbell has taken
you away from me."

I have never been able to say very much in the trying moments of my life, and so when Mr. Dalton's
story was ended, I only looked out of the window upon the gathering twilight, listening to
the echo of his plaintive accents, as they settled down upon my heart forever. After a pause,
he spoke again:--"You have promised to marry Campbell, have you not?" he asked.

"Yes Mr. Dalton, I think he is a worthy fellow, don't you?" I replied.

"He is Amey, he is. I trust you will both be happy," was the distracted rejoinder, and then
Bayard knocked timidly at the door; I knew what the summons meant and starting to my feet at
once, I went and obeyed it.

CHAPTER XIX.

It was my last vigil by Hortense's bed-side--for, when morning came with its glad sun-beams,
her spirit had passed away--there was no struggle, no pain, only a sinking to rest, a falling
to sleep; a quiet transit from life's worrying turmoil, into the hallowed peace of death!

With a handful of fresh violets, and a cross upon her breast, a lily, white and newly-gathered,
in her hand, the emblem of that purity in which her eternal sleep had overtaken her, she lay
within the quiet precincts of her little room.

Many tears were shed, and many sighs were heaved about her! So young, so fresh a flower in
life's great garden, lying before us with its broken stem!

We bade her our last farewell, and resigned her to the grave; I, who had loved her with all
the intimate intensity of a glowing friendship, kissed her cold lips again and again, and turned
away from her, forever. Mr. Dalton wiped the moisture from his eyes, as he stooped over the
coffin lid, and touched her brow, fondly but reverently, with his trembling lips, Mdme. de
Beaumont fell upon the prostrate figure of her darling, and in their last mortal embrace, swooned
away! Bayard leaning slowly over her, with a face almost as pallid as her own, muttered in
feeble sobs--"My angel! my guardian angel!" and with one long, lingering kiss, the last he
could ever give her, he turned from her, baptized anew in her self-abnegating love, a conscious
and contrite penitent.

When the funeral was over and peace and quiet were in a measure restored to the agitated hearts
of her mother and Bayard, I made my silent preparations to depart. Mr. Dalton had left before
me. Madame de Beaumont parted from me with the greatest reluctance, and indeed, I was not over
anxious to leave her so soon after her severe bereavement, but my duty now lay elsewhere.

It was with the greatest profusion of gratitude and expressions of the deepest appreciation
and regard, that Bayard and his mother bade me their last farewells. We went together to Hortense's
grave in the morning, and prayed awhile; I plucked one little sprig of early clover that had
struggled into bloom above her, and carried it away with me as the last parting souvenir of
my deeply lamented friend.

When I returned to the comfort and quiet of Cousin Bessie's home, from which I had been estranged
for many months, I began to feel the re-action of all my recent exertions setting in. I struggled
against it with all the violence of a perverse inclination to combat it, but I was baffled;
I grew weaker day by day, and at length succumbed to the depressing influence of a slow fever.

How good, and generous and thoughtful, dear Cousin Bessie proved herself a thousand times over
during my tedious illness. Never complaining, never impatient, though at times I was so peevish
and trying, night after night she tended me with her own loving hands, cheering me up when
I was disposed to be gloomy, with the happiest of predictions about my near recovery. At last,
I began to show the effects of her careful nursing, and was well enough to be helped downstairs
by Girly, or Zita or some one of that loving household--and even here their untiring solicitude
pursued me; there was no end to the diversity of the distractions they provided for me, foremost
among which was an invitation written by Louis urging Arthur Campbell to come and spend a few
weeks at the house.

Cousin Bessie has most seriously maintained to this day that we treated her very shabbily on
this occasion; she declares she shall never forgive Arthur, but she says it so good-humouredly
that I am tempted to suspect her sincerity.

