The scenery along the upper Ohio River is pleasing in any season of the year; no wonder that,
in early May, the travellers were enchanted by its picturesque beauty. To this day, in many
places, the hills, vales, and woods on either bank, retain almost the original wildness of
primeval Nature. The river winds among high limestone hills, which are carved in frequent deep
ravines, by tumbling brooks, or trickling rills. Low, green islands rise magically upon the
forward view of the voyager, then vanish in the receding distance, like fairy worlds withdrawn.

The real and the imaginary became strangely blended in Arlington's mind. He could hardly distinguish
the substantial from the visionary, while he gazed on cloudlike bluffs in Ohio and dim highlands
in Virginia. The boat drifted on without sound or jar, and he easily fancied himself at rest
on a surface of water, while the woody shore swam by in slow panorama.

Chester Arlington was the son of a wealthy citizen of Richmond, and a graduate of the College
of William and Mary. He had studied law, and was beginning life on his own account. Entrusted
with a commission to collect some claims held by his father against a merchant in Cincinnati,
he was on his way to that metropolis of the Miami country. His acquaintance with Burr dated
from a day in the middle of April, when the two got into the same coach to journey from Philadelphia
to Pittsburg. A difference of twenty-five years in their ages was cancelled by the art, which
the elder possessed, of maintaining perpetual youth. And Burr's genial conversation won his
companion's confidence and friendship before they had crossed the Alleghanies. Thus it came
about, that the Virginian had been invited to share the conveniences of the flatboat, a courtesy
which he had accepted, on condition that he might share the expenses.

Toward the close of the fourth day of the voyage, as the two sat on the top of their drifting
domicile, smoking cigars, they fell into a discussion concerning the Great West, and the prospects
of new States and Territories. 

Beaupère now began questioning Joan of Discharge regarding'her voices,'and one can ideate how thirstily
this portion of the prisoner'mho investigation must have been listened
to by all present.

Perhaps'that will suffice'is like it.'passez outre'is the term she used, not an well one to
interpret.'when did you first larn the voices?'asked beaupère.'i
was thirteen,'answered Joan,'when i first heard a voice coming from
which God from aid me to alarmed live.

That
first time i was much easy

.


"The boat of the Spaniard has not yet abandoned our western waters, Mr. Arlington."

"No, not yet. Twenty years have not elapsed since the first white settlement was made on the
soil of Ohio, at Marietta, a town we are now approaching."

The smokers lapsed into a silence of many minutes. Burr resumed conversation abruptly:

"Arlington, you are not a Federalist?"

"Could you imagine that a son of my father, Major Arlington, would hold the principles of Adams
and Jay?"

"You are not, you say, an admirer of Adams, the arch-Federalist. Do you worship his successor?
Are you an unconditional Jeffersonian?"

"No, I am not. It seems to me that Jefferson aids the cause of centralization, with the same
motive that moved Adams, but with less boldness. What do you think, Colonel Burr, of the temporizing
policy of the administration in regard to Spain?"

"In regard to Spain?" echoed Burr, blowing a ring of smoke from his lips, "what do you think,
yourself?"

"I think it infamous! It disgraces this nation to submit to exactions and insults from the
Spaniards. Why don't the Government declare war, and conquer Mexico?"

"Would you be in favor of that?" asked Burr, lightly touching the ashes of his cigar with the
tip of his little finger--so lightly that the ashes did not fall.

"Would I be in favor of it? I am in favor of it. Are not you, Colonel Burr?"

The politician again barely grazed the cylinder of white ashes with his little finger.

"We must not be rash."

"I feel that I am rash to talk so positively, but how can there be a difference of opinion
on a subject like this? Why don't Congress declare war?"

"Is it your belief that, if war were declared, there would be difficulty in raising volunteers
in Virginia?"

"Not the least. Thousands would enlist."

"Would you enlist, Mr. Arlington?"

"Yes, sir, I would."

Burr's little finger tapped the burnt out inch of his cigar, and the frail ash fell, crumbling
to fine powder, which the breeze bore away. The touch recorded a point won.

"Suppose that Congress and the President, disregarding the wishes of the people, and refusing
to declare war, force the country to submit tamely to the insults of Spain, do you think it
possible that independent men might take upon themselves the responsibility as a private business
enterprise, and march against the Dons in Mexico?"

After a thoughtful pause, the young man replied:

"Yes, some would. Many would. The warfare might not be regular, but, in my view, the object
would justify extraordinary means to a patriotic end. What is your own feeling on that phase
of the subject, may I ask, colonel?"

"I wish to learn the sense of my fellow-citizens. You may express yourself to me with perfect
freedom."

"Why not? We are discussing a public question."

"Certainly. But your idea, that an expedition against Mexico, conducted as a private enterprise,
might prove popular and--"

"That is your idea, sir, not mine. However, I see no objection to adopting it, providing the
Government is in the secret, and tacitly permits an expedition."

"Oh, surely! That is understood," responded Burr, and fell pondering.

With quick whiffs he revived the dying fire of his cigar, leaned back in his chair, and lost
himself in reverie. What were his meditations? Perhaps he mused of the past, the half century
of crowded events in which he had borne a conspicuous part. Did his memory fly back to the
far off, sad days when, a lonesome orphan boy, in a Puritan school, he penned sympathetic letters
to his sister? Or was recollection busy with the scenes of the Revolutionary War, in which
he served his country nobly and won proud laurels? He recalled his part in the march to Canada
and in the assault on Quebec, not forgetting his own heroic exploit of carrying from the fatal
field the body of his slain general, Montgomery. He thought of the retreat from Long Island,
and of the credit he gained as aide-de-camp to Putnam; he retraced each step in his military
career, reflecting on his rise from the command of a regiment to that of a brigade, remembering
how his distinction as a brave and able officer reached its culmination in the battle of Monmouth.
Perhaps, through his mind ran the events of his political history, his transition from the
field to the bar, thence to the State Assembly of New York, to the Senate of the United States,
and finally to the Vice-Presidency.

These memories and a myriad more came thronging to his quickened consciousness as he sat smoking.
The retrospective visions rose before him, not as vague memories--they seemed living realities
as they reproduced events more recent. At last one vivid picture--nay, was it not an actual
scene?--one set of vital images, usurped his brain and would not vanish or fade. It showed
a grassy ledge guarded by rocks and forest growths, in a secluded spot overlooking the Hudson.
There stands himself confronting his political rival and partisan foe; the figures speak and
move; a ghastly tragedy is imminent. Yes, imagination compels the repetition--the men are placed--Burr
takes deliberate aim, touches the trigger, the fatal bullet pierces Hamilton's breast and the
slain Federalist falls heavily, his face upon the sward. But before he falls, his pistol, which
he had resolved not to fire, is accidentally discharged, sending its ball eight feet over the
head of his antagonist and cutting off a leafy twig from an overhanging bough. Burr's attention
is strangely affected by the fate of the green branch which he heard the bullet sever, and,
as he sees it come wavering to the ground, he cannot resist the fancy that he beholds an emblem
of his own ruin--a symbol of his future self--a living thing cut off from its nourishing stock
as he was destined to be from a nation's sympathy and support.

The gloomy retrospect, the dismal forecast, were too painful; by a strong effort of the will,
Burr strove to expunge the past and illuminate the future. Rising, he took a brisk turn or
two, pacing the deck. His cigar had gone out; casting it into the river, he lit a fresh one,
and again sat down. The kindled roll diffused its searching perfume and wrought a soothing
change of mood. By some subtle chain of new associations Burr was led to think of the words
of Milton's hero in Paradise Lost:

    "The mind is its own place, and in itself
    Can make a heaven of hell."

He puffed at the long cigar, and began to build a future out of rolling smoke. Toppled fortunes
may be rebuilt; lost reputation may be retrieved. There are new worlds to discover, to conquer,
and to possess. What may not be achieved by genius and courage? What to undertake, what to
dare and do! Shall he span the Ohio with a bridge, and dig a canal around the falls? Would
he find success by settling in some rising city of the West, and resuming the practice of law?
Or might he not reasonably hope to be returned to Congress from one of the new States? Or to
secure from the President an appointment as Minister to a foreign court, perhaps that of St.
James? Better than these schemes and more independent, to embark in a stupendous land speculation
in Louisiana, and open a splendid way to riches and power.

The wavering blue nebulæ of intoxicating clouds rise and float, and fashion their fragrant
columns into grander castles of smoke. The Mississippi Valley is spacious and fertile, Louisiana
is a wide domain, but why limit the scope of enterprise to these? Why not conquer Mexico, make
New Orleans the capital of a magnificent empire, and possibly annex the southwestern States
of the severed Union. Myself the emperor of the richest realm on the globe, my daughter the
crown princess and prospective queen Theodosia!

Such was the gorgeous dream, the cloud-vision, the unuttered soliloquy of Aaron Burr, the political
bankrupt, as he sat smoking on the deck of a flatboat, drifting down the devious current of
the Ohio.

IV. PLUTARCH BYLE MAKES A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.

The boat had reached a point a few miles above Marietta, when an incident occurred to interrupt
the resumed dialogue on the Spanish question. A skiff was seen to push off from the Ohio shore,
and move rapidly in the direction of the flatboat, urged on by the long, powerful oar-strokes
of a man who, even in distant perspective, appeared larger than life-size. Instead of hailing
the crew of the passing vessel, as was customary, the man gave no sign that he was conscious
of the existence of any other craft than his own fast-gliding skiff. However, he steered straight
for the boat, hove alongside, sprang on board with surprising agility, and, having fastened
his light boat by a chain to a timber of the flat, stalked deliberately to the stern where
Captain Pierce was stationed with steering-oar.

"I saw you coming down and I thought maybe you'd like to buy some fresh fish. I've got a thirty-pound
cat in the boat; I caught one last week that weighed one hundred and three pound."

"Don't want any fish. Wouldn't take 'um as a gift."

"You're welcome not to, captain. I suppose a man has a right to hop on board and ask a civil
question. Whose boat is this, anyhow, and where bound?"

No attention being paid to the question, the nonchalant intruder went on: "What plunder are
you loaded with? Salt or whiskey, or pork or butter, I reckon? Or maybe you carry passengers?
Is it a family of emigrants? I see two chaps on the upper deck; who are they? What might your
name be, captain?"

The helmsman relieved his irritation by delivering a volley of oaths.

"You 'pear to be out of sorts, captain. Sour stomach, likely. Better take a dose of saleratus."

Hearing a strange voice, the cook, who was the captain's trusted confidant, came out. He was
recognized by the ubiquitous Byle.

"Abe Sheldrake! as sure as ham is hog's flesh! Abe, if there's an onrier man than you on earth,
the bottomless pit is shaller."

The cook stood speechless, and the tall man sauntered leisurely through the several apartments
of the boat, calculating their dimensions and inspecting the furniture, and pausing occasionally
to handle such articles as appealed to his curiosity. He passed through the kitchen into the
dining-room, and thence through both the sleeping-chambers, finally emerging from a door at
the bow of the boat, after which he ascended to the roof, where he accosted Burr and Arlington.

"How d'ye do? My name is Byle; Plutarch Byle--B-y-l-e. I can't call your names, gents, but
no matter. We all belong to the same human race. I thought you might be a little bored-like
with your own talk--so long together you know--and I hopped on to cheer you up. George Washington
used to say to his nephew, 'Be courteous to all, but intimate with few,' and George was half
right. I admire a mannerly man. How goes it?"

The familiarity of this overture puzzled, but did not offend the travellers, who conceived
that chance had thrown into their presence an original whose company might afford them an hour's
entertainment. Arlington politely offered the visitor a chair.

"No, thank you, stranger. I've been setting in the skiff all day, fishing, and I'd rather stand
up and stretch my bones."

The gentlemen thought, when they saw Mr. Byle throw back his arms, and gradually straighten
up his towering body, that the length and thickness of bone he had to stretch were extraordinary.

"I've got a lot of mussel shells in my boat for Mr. Blennerhatchet. Would you like to see 'em?
'Union-idea,' he says they are. He's a queer customer, that Blennerhatchet."

"You know him then?" asked Burr.

"Know him! I know him like a book. I know him better than I do you. He is not so good-looking
as either of us, by ginger. I can't make out why the Rose of Sharon ever took to a near-sighted
United Irishman."

"The Rose of Sharon?"

"I mean his old woman--Mrs. B. She's a perfect lady. Pretty! Pretty as a sassafras tree in
October! I didn't just catch your names, gentlemen. I like to call a man by his Christian name.
It seems more sociable. That's one thing I like about the French--sociability. They go in for
liberty, equality and brotherhood. But I don't take any stock in their skeptical notions. I'd
as soon eat poke-root and sleep on pizen-vine as read Voltaire and Rousseau. Tom Payne is no
better. What's the latest news from Washington? Is Tom Jefferson going to make war on Spain?
It ain't war we want; it ain't more territory we want; we need a closer union, and a strong
tariff."

"You appear to be a politician, Mr. Pyle."

"Byle--B-y-l-e--Plutarch Byle, if you please. Yes, it's my notion that every citizen ought
to be a politician. I'm a John Jay Federalist--a centralizer. Which side are you on?"

"I'm not concerned in politics at present. We are lawyers, not politicians, Mr. Arlington and I."

"Arlington? That's not a bad name. Where do you hail from, Arlington?" 

Wholly was nothing desperate about that; Mrs. Sampson, being the wife of Dean and who was much
more retiring than he should be, was to be seen in public at all
times and seasons, having in do, as it were, the work of two instantly
than one.

The, no thing was that Joan might suddenly realised when her panic of Mrs. Sampson-- a terror that had
always been a thorn of her flesh-- was never gone. It was as these charm, an Abracadabra, had
been whispered over Mrs. mho and do she had been changed rather killed into a rabbit. It had
there been Title.

Sampson'Sampson nonaccomplishment that she was mysterious to the young. She was a good woman, but
she was cursed with two sad burdens-- a wonderful shyness and a
series, unrelenting, unmitigating, nervous, desperate, of the enthusiastic
headaches.

The enthusiastic Byle extended his prodigious palm and grasped the delicate hand politely proffered
him. Arlington looked on in astonishment.

Burr, wincing at the vice-like grip of his new acquaintance, placidly responded: "Yes, there
are few men more worthy of esteem than was my admirable friend Mr. Hamilton--whom I shot."

Byle was struck dumb. He could only open his cavernous mouth, and gasp. His heavy hand relaxed
its hold, and dropped as if paralyzed. For a moment he stared at Arlington. Then he recovered
his powers sufficiently to articulate.

"You shot him? You--you aren't--?"

"Yes, I am Aaron Burr."

Plutarch Byle turned on his heel and with three strides carried his leaning tower of a body
to the edge of the deck. Scrambling precipitately down the boat's side, he stumbled into his
skiff, undid the chain, grabbed his oars and fairly shot away, as if pursued by flying pestilence.
He directed his course northward and quickly ran the bow of his skiff against the river bank.
Then plunging his right hand into the water, he rubbed and scrubbed it vigorously, using sand
for soap.

"Dog-fennel and skunk-cabbage! I don't believe there's water enough in the Ohio River to take
out the wicked smell of that murderer's hand!"

V. IN THE LADIES' BOWER.

The Byle episode put Burr in a merry mood, quite diverting his thoughts from Mexico and the
future to the happenings of the hour. A reckless spirit of frivolity took possession of him,
and he astonished his fellow traveller by the ebullience of his humor and the play of his extravagant
fancy. He mimicked the speech and grotesque gestures of Plutarch, and laughed over the ludicrous
finale of the encounter with that free-spoken genius.

"Mr. B-y-l-e, Byle, is exquisite! It is worth coming a thousand miles by stage coach and flatboat,
to meet so droll an adventure with such a nondescript amphibian. He has a prodigious gift of
gab, plain and ornamental. Did you take note of his metaphors? 'Rose of Sharon' is good.--By
the way, we can't be far from the Bower of Bliss. We must tie up our Argo there as Brackenridge
recommended, and go in quest of those exotic and visionary Blennerhassetts."

"What do you know of them, colonel, further than we learned in Pittsburg?"

"But little. They stopped in New York for a few months, after arriving in this country, ten
or twelve years ago. The man is a barrister, educated in Dublin. He claims to be a descendant
of King John. The lady is a daughter of the governor of the Isle of Wight, and a granddaughter
of the late Brigadier-General Agnew, who was killed in the battle of Germantown."

"A British general, you say?"

"Oh, certainly--a violent royalist."

While the gentlemen were thus chatting, the boat drifted lazily on, following the windings
of the current. The broad Ohio glowed like liquid gold, in the slant sunshine of mid-afternoon,
and the interplay of shade and color, shifting from object to object along the shores, gave
the varied scenery an ethereal beauty almost supernatural. The distant, forest-crowned uplands,
seen dimly in the direction toward which the ark floated, looked as unsubstantial as clouds.
A delightful, spicy fragrance exhaled from the blossomy thickets which fringed the river margin.

Burr took a deep breath, and began to hum a half-remembered verse advising youth to "gather
the rose whiles yet is prime."

"Yonder is Bacchus Island," said Arlington, pointing down stream.

"I suppose you are right. The Western Navigator locates the spot somewhere about here. But
beware of illusions, my friend. I begin to doubt the testimony of my senses. Perhaps yonder
prospect is a mirage, and Byle was only a goblin of the mind. This interminable river is enchanted.
I sympathize with La Salle's conviction that the Ohio runs to Cathay. Maybe we have sailed
round the globe and are now in sight of the Indies. Or we have come to Arabia. Does not the
vision resemble some Mohammedan Isle of the Blest--one of the happy seats reserved for blameless
souls such as yours and mine? I shall expect to discover the rivers of clarified honey, the
couches adorned with gold, and the damsels having complexions like rubies and pearls, as the
Koran promises."

Arlington laughingly replied in the same extravagant vein.

"Colonel, you have eaten of the insane root. This island belongs to the Hesperides, not to
the East. The best luck we can hope for is to steal one or two golden apples."

"That may prove a risky adventure even for a bold Virginian. If there is a dragon to slay I
leave the bloody business to you. I stick to my Oriental paradise."

"Very well; golden apples for me and pearl-ruby damsels for you. But I am scandalized that
a Puritan Senator permits himself to dream of Mohammed's heaven, and its honey and houri felicities."

"Mr. Arlington, you are the first and only anchorite that Virginia has produced. You will grant
that it is in character for a Senator to pay his devoirs to a sultana. Something too much of
this. See there over the willows; that must be the house."

They both gazed forward, and caught glimpses of the secluded mansion, gleaming, snow-white,
through forest vistas. Burke Pierce, who knew the private wharf, steered to the landing, and
the boat was moored fast to a huge sycamore tree.

The travellers disembarked, and following a path which wound among mazes of shrubbery and early
blooming flowers, came to the semicircular plot of green sward fronting the piazza.

"The place is marvellously beautiful!" remarked Arlington.

"A new Garden of Eden!" answered the other.

On approaching the main entrance, they heard, within, the twangling music of a harp.

The hall door was decorated with a large, bronze knocker of curious design. A tap of the falling
hammer on its metallic plate, brought to the threshold a jet-black maid-servant wearing a gaudy
turban. She ushered the visitors into a spacious drawing-room and took their cards and a note
from Judge Brackenridge, to her mistress.

The guests while waiting could not fail to be impressed by what they saw around them. Walls,
ceilings and doors were unique in their decorative effects. The furnishings of the apartment
were elegant and sumptuous. There were rich hangings at the windows and costly Persian rugs
on the floor.

Soon was heard a swish and rustle of brocade on the stairs, and, a moment later, the gentlemen
rose to meet Madam Blennerhassett, who came in, smiling a cordial welcome. She was dignified,
even stately, in her demeanor, and looked, not indeed the ideal sultana, but rather every inch
an empress.

Burr was at once upon his mettle. No levity, nothing of the jester, no trace of ennui lingered
in his manner. The presence of the magnificent woman transfigured his body and called up all
his social resources. His eye kindled its sparkling fires, his lip took a deeper glow of vital
red. These manifestations were spontaneous, almost involuntary, though he was conscious of
an obscure design.

"Gentlemen, it hardly needed this note from Judge Brackenridge to insure you a welcome here;
you do us a great honor by seeking out our lonely island home." These words, though addressed
to both the visitors, were meant for the elder and more distinguished guest, who replied suavely:

"Madam, we made bold to invade the privacy of these grounds in the hope of forming the acquaintance
of a family well known by reputation."

Returning a formal bow and a look of appreciation, the lady continued:

"I regret that you do not find my husband at home; his affairs called him to Farmers' Castle,
just across the river, but I am expecting him to return at any minute. You must not go without
seeing him. Of course, you will take dinner with us."

The wayfarers, having come ashore for idle adventure and recreation, were easily persuaded
to linger. Burr tactfully advanced to the borders of familiarity by giving Madam Blennerhassett
an embellished report of the encomiums which Brackenridge had bestowed upon her and her ancestors.
He was lauding the name of Agnew, when a sound from the vestibule suspended his eloquence,
and quickly thereafter the figure of a graceful girl appeared in the entrance to the drawing-room.
The maiden paused a moment, a glowing picture in the deep doorway. She was a peerless blonde,
blue of eye, scarlet of lip--and her fair head and face were so aureoled by locks of sunniest
yellow, that she seemed to radiate light and warmth. Her exceeding loveliness smote through
Arlington's nerves and set his southern blood tingling.

"Ah, Evaleen, did you enjoy your ramble?" asked the hostess, affectionately, as she rose to
receive the young lady. "Colonel Burr, this is my very dear friend, Miss Evaleen Hale."

The American Chesterfield made a courtierly obeisance.

"Permit me to introduce Mr. Arlington, of Richmond."

"Miss Hale, gentlemen, like myself is a sojourner in a far country. She comes to us from Boston."

Having complied gracefully with the demands of convention, the maiden, in wilful abstraction,
busied herself with some wild flowers which she had just gathered in the woods.

"Where did you leave the boys?" inquired madam, referring to the lads Dominick and Harman.

"They are out of doors, making a cage for a young squirrel which I had the luck to catch. But
the lively creature bit me; see here, Margaret!"

Evaleen held up a dainty hand, on the whiteness of which the teeth of the captive had left
a small purple wound. In her playful carelessness, she let fall a sprig of wind-flowers and
two or three violets. Arlington gallantly picked up the flowers.

"What peculiar violets," said he, as he offered to return them.

"Yes, they are of a variety found only on this island, I am told. You may keep them if you like."

"I presume, Mr. Arlington," said Burr, "that you understand the language of flowers. When I
was of the sentimental age I knew the floral alphabet and could convey all manner of covert
messages through the agency of pinks and pansies and rosebuds and all the sweet go-betweens
of Cupid's court. The blue violet, I believe, signifies modesty, does it not?"

The question was accompanied by a look at Miss Hale, who made no reply, not appearing to notice
the appeal.

"Our native Western plants," said the hostess, "have no poetical association. The Indians were
devoid of sentiment. It is only in Persia and such romantic lands that they make roses and
lilies talk. But this island is rich in its flora. Before you resume your voyage you should
take time to visit a beautiful spot which Miss Evaleen calls her Violet Bank. It is on a bluff
overlooking the river, only a short walk from here."

