In those days a village of thirty houses or more stood there; now no one liveth there, and
only sometimes do the people come here to gather cocoanuts."

The White Man nodded. "'Tis a fair place to look upon. Let us land and rest awhile, for the
sun is hot."

The native pastor swung the bow of the canoe round towards the shore, and presently the little
craft glided gently upon the hard, white sand, and the two men got out, walked up to the grove
of cocoa-palms, and sat down under their shade to rest and smoke until the sun lost some of
its fierce intensity and they could proceed on their journey homeward to the principal village.

The White Man was the one trader living in Peru,{*} the native was a Samoan, and one of the
oldest and bravest missionaries in the Pacific. The
most beautiful, the most delighted me was the Dona Guiomar, whose argument, in essence, is the
same as the Indian drama by Kalidasa, entitled Sacuntala. The Arabs undoubtedly brought this
story and another thousand in the Middle Ages, from the remote East.

The maid who excels at list, enjoyable and entertaining, it captures the will and becomes always
the favorite companion or mistress, or unmarried girl or woman. Comes to resemble the confidante
of classical tragedies, and even can play the role of Oenone.

Anyway loves going with his visits to church and walk, takes you and brings messages, and attempts
to have it As current passes in the place.

This to know people's lives and murmuring, must be confessed, is a deplorable taste in the noblemen
and rich styling of there.

Moreover, if there is some truth in the proverb scathing: Do it the Al Andalusia cross, and Cordoba
hands and feet, it can be said to not pray with women before poor things are victims of unruly,
rowdy and friends are usually run it husbands. And from one who goes to the field to see the
vineyards and olive groves and inspect the pruning, digging or other work either, and is another
who goes hunting frigid sub Jove, tenerae conjugis immemorial, and it has to go to business
at the head of the party, or Cordoba, or Madrid for political reasons, and argues that it
should go to Jerez to take samples of wine or a show, to see whether buying or selling cattle,
in short, lacking any excuse ever to be away from home half the year. If the husband is handsome
and cheerful, often goes months on end away from the conjugal roof. The tender wife, meanwhile, is
in solitude and abandonment, and if is often besieged by suitors, Penelope and even mimics
overtakes him, for after her husband, and he went for work and adventure
in life Trojan War, or fixed, except for rare and laudable exceptions,
is more gloomy and Zahareña Ulysses and Calypso with Circes in inns,
lodges, inns and other parties shall be appear.

Very wonderful and very worthy of praise is this fidelity resigned from Cordoba. I will not deny,
however, sometimes exhausted resignation and breaks Cordoba brake patience. Then jealousy burst
like a tempest. I remember a certain relative of mine who knew that her husband Stealth was
yet a girl in his cottage, where he went every afternoon and even stayed a few nights, under the
pretext of work. Just found out, he ordered verifications the jamugas the donkey, was accompanied
by his donkey in another confidante, and without her husband noticing,
it was for those twists and turns until you reach the farmhouse.

Terrible was the interview with the sinner, who drove out slaps.

I note that in this and other cases are fueling strong economic jealousy. This line of mistresses
often very costly, and ends in the destruction of lucrative and filed flows. No spending originates
or comes from the finery and jewels, cars and workmanship to be buy the girl, or the pomp and pageantry
that is necessary to sustain it, but it is all relative and proportional, and some of it is spent
well. The heterogeneity of place is less demanding beggar and whimsical that Coras, the Baruccis,
the Paiva and other famous Parisian hetairae: but those are single, you'd think they were born
like mushrooms, and the locals have a flood relatives, which is released and descends upon the
house and the estate of the maintainer in love, as Locusts swarm of hungry and greedy. Cousins,
nephews, brothers, mother, aunts, all, in short, feel entitled to whatever is: with the right
to work, and therefore entitled to the care and leisure. The oil comes out of your cellar, no for chime,
but by the bushel, the slices of bacon flying out of the pantry, the transpose sausages; butter
evaporates, the hams are dissipated. The entire kindred lights, heated, eat, drink and even
dwells at your expense. If you have houses, one of the kindred dwell and do not get the pay,
if you are grower of wine or spirits, often boots, jars and botijuelas,
and will enter empty and overflowing.

Do not believe, however, that since this business so lucrative, many women are engaged He and cheaper
market competition. Throughout the territory of Cordoba has always lived people are very noble and
very difficult at points of honor. Old Colony as true citizens Romans, not freed, like others,
deserved and earned the title of patrician, when the invasion Mohammed, did not come to populate Berber
rude and commoners, but men of pure light Arabian blood, the most illustrious lineage of Medina
and Mecca, the descendants of the Ansar Tab and muhadjires. And finally, having been my province,
for two centuries, frontier the kingdom of Granada, had to take and had to defend their custody
and places strong, and to retaliate for any attack, riot by entering domains the Alarba, cutting
their crops and doing other mischief thousand insolence and a population
tough and courageous men,

All gentlemen of honor And you really love,

as
he sings the old romance.

    Since then he has tarnished
    his well-established reputation Córdoba: and not idle boasting, but
with plenty of reason, bears the motto, regarding the rampant lions
of his clean coat "Corduba, militiae domus, inclyta fonsque Sophiaa."

Lucan, Seneca, Averroes, Ambrosio de Morales, Gongora and a thousand others attest to the latter.
Accredited first on innumerable multitude, the staunch and courageous warriors in every way
Córdoba has grown; and to wonder and terror of the enemies of Spain as the Great Captain; and for
perpetual anxiety and dread constant gentle Spanish, such as Tempranillo, Francisco Esteban
El Guapo, Benamejí Chat The Cripple of Encinas-Reales, Navarro's Lucena, and Caparrota the Doña-Mencia.

It
is therefore plain that her husband has been there much, much indulgent parent, and many interested
and easy women. Which is what makes him pay dearly, not because of the rarity, but so lost. Only
by dint of superb gifts and generosity, and dazzling with luxury, it is sometimes forgive
its missteps.

Still, she is spurned and do not usually call it by its name, but with an ironic nickname, for
example, Galga, La Joya, the guitar. Perhaps designated by the generic name of the country
is natural, and to designate its origin stranger, and I've known them to Murcia, a the Manchego
and Tarifa.

If any young lady or a young married maiden feels vagaries of being seduced and coax, there is
often a father or a husband who straightens healthy and good rattan cane. Neither should be
very safe and neglected seductive inspire much respect.

Not enough sometimes innocent, if a lover gives misgivings. True friend of mine from school, in
the Sacro Monte, was, years ago, to heal the soul into a place of my province. He was a great
theologian, straight and virtuous, but well spoken, elegant, Slick and pleasant man who was
the eighteenth century had figured in a court, as the most delicious abbe. Well, in the people
took it with him, and, as they say, you abroncaron. The brónquis that gave came to shoot some shots,
but only with gunpowder, to scare. He estimated that powder, if it was ineffective, it could
easily happen to the shot, and ran away with music and theology elsewhere less difficult.

Such extremes are rare, fortunately. Cordoba is the flirtatious but very cautious and stealthy,
no one agrees. Even the most humble condition, used to evict the patient in love, talking about
his honor, as the ladies Calderon.

When this is not enough or scream, or excited, or shocked, but he defends which a Penthesilea;
struggle, as the angel wrestled with Jacob in the darkness of night, and robust, even angelic,
often throw the trip up, overthrow, and even give you a soba, all with mute eloquence and quietly
beautiful. And do not miss this class because of poor girls, and even in some affluent styling
is remarkable robustness. They are harder than marble, not only of heart, not just in the center,
but the entire periphery. One day we toured the country with the most graceful and main girls of the place.
One of them, believing the highest seat, sat hit on a pile of tiles. Were of the massive and
best of Lucena. Three saw broken. She said with a charming modesty and, before the fall, they
were.

Not understood, so that, Amenga or deface anything at all slenderness and kindness of my countrywomen.
One thing is the density and firmness, and over the outrageous volume.

The girl that a child works, go hard and go to the fountain in the ejido, returning from there with
the jug full, on her hip, or washed her clothes in the stream, is strong but not fat. The source
or the pillar was the end of my daily walk, and there I I sat on a bench under a leafy eminent
black poplar. Seeing the girls washing, or fill the jars and go with them so graceful, airy
and light, for that slope above, I moved my spirit to the patriarchal times, and I thought
I saw some Biblical scenes such as Rebecca and Eliacer, and, comparing with the wise King
of Ithaca, I tried in the presence of Princess Nausicaa and her companions kind. Nothing crinolines
or recessed into those girls. The poor short dress, especially in summer, hews the body and gracefully
folded, watching and revealing the juveniles, as in the statue huntress Diana.

Unfortunately, the ladies have taken place, as soon as possible, almost all French fashion,
and are losing their style of dress and grooming. All huge crinolines used total and now use the
pseudo-partial crinoline depriving callipygian.

When you least expect leave the blanket and put the hat. All comb, taking figurine modeled after,
and often call this hairstyle cucuné or rolled up to give up the name, a character abroad. Skirts,
short rather than take them, take them long, and are sweeping dust tail of the roads. In short,
it's a shame this abandonment of the suit itself and appropriate.

Despite these costumes, beauty, or at least the grace, the elegance and wit, are items common
in my countrywomen. They go far in the delicacy, and especially if dancing. The rigodones
and the waltz and polka will acclimatizing, but the fandango not
banished yet.

Until ladies come out to make a move, if taken out and force in any country fair, and move and
jump with panache and ease, and castanets rattle briskly. Women There's people that in this
dance and play castanets, due to Teletusa held by Martial, in that epigram which begins:

Eder ad Baetica crusmata Gestus lewd.

If a married woman, as exposed, is a model of patience married, the
unmarried is almost always a model girlfriends.

    Down to the gate on time every night to talk with love, on what is
called the turkey skin.

In every street anywhere in Andalucía are, from 10:00 to 13:00, two separate muffled, and
sewn into most bars. Such Once he sighs and exclaims:

- Too bad you are!

And she answers:

- No, you! ...

And breathe another sigh.

So spend hours and hours.

This exercise has such charm to the man above all, not just extend dating more than that of Jacob and
Rachel, which lasted fourteen years, not only losing the charm of peel the kettle. The poor
girls suffer with patience, but languish and become haggard.

Truth is that then when they get married, not, as elsewhere, that women are still serving, service
and dedication. Although the groom is a journeyman miserable, try to find his girlfriend, no property
become his wife, quit all work, no weed again or pick olives and
be at home as queen and mistress.

If you are serving, says goodbye and leaves to serve, and as does not sew or clean, or iron,
or scrub, or wise, but for her husband and their children. The man, except in rare cases,
the worker, or Garbee garners looks and what is necessary to the support of the entire family.

The
Cordoba, is in the class it is, is all heart and tenderness but without sentimentality false and
alchemy that has come from extranjis. No one (shame confess) has painted Cordoba to the people,
truly in love and passionate, as the novelist Mérimée. Her Carmen is the ideal kind of humble
and low capacity, even sublime soul.

As says the Greek poet's couplet, which serves as epigraph to the novel, Carmen knows dying and
love; is admirable when it is given out of love and when love dies, you have two hours divine:
a in death, and another in the thalamus.

From behind comes the garbanzo the peak, as the vulgar say. Since ancient times is the Cordoba
mirror, northern light and love. Her eyes, like those of Laura, inspired and almost Platonic mystical
feelings, and make a Moor, as Ibn Zeidun, write songs finer than of Petrarch, through Walada princess,
who was also a poet.

The loves of two women have had a huge Cordoba beneficent influence in the world: have contributed
almost have been the cause of the most precious glory for Spain, and events as angels, without
whom the current European civilization is not explained. Without Zahira Gusti love, Mudaliar had
not been born, seven infants of Lara would not have had avenger, the flower of Spanish chivalry
had died before opening the cup, perhaps we had not possessed the Cid, because not inspired
by the sword and collect breath Mudarra with her had not died or given to Count Lozano feat so
enduring principle.

If Dona Beatriz Enriquez fell in love with Columbus in Córdoba, comforting
and encouraging, Colon had gone to Spain, had died in an insane hospital,
I had not discovered new orbs, whose existence was discerned and predicted
more than thousand and four hundred years before an inspired Cordoba,
and the discovery of which gave him the passionate spirit and vigor
Cordoba immortal.

See, then, how are and have been able to my countrywomen. God bless you all.

Unable to appear to be as good, the neglected and abandoned men rogues. Addition The pilgrimage
of which we spoke, the left to go to the casino, where they spend idle time. He had plenty of reason
to the roar of the great Donoso both against the casino, where eloquent book on Catholicism.
It is true that there has always been casino, just before for the rich, is called the box, and was in
the pharmacy, and the poor, the casino was in the tavern. But in the day or the pharmacy or
the pubs are gone, and everywhere however small, swarming, boiled
in casinos.

Each factions, each has the political hue yours. There are conservative casino, casino radical
Carlist casino, casino casino socialist and republican. The poor women are left alone. I do
not know how no woman who is liberal! All should be absolute, and many are in the background.

The
only compensation that the woman brings brand new liberalism is quite
weak marital and paternal authority, which previously was terrible
and even tyrannical.

A rod is the government called a house, but the spirited woman, as is the Cordoba, it hurts
when the disdain that when you're stuck, plus a slight breaks to beat.

Anyway, Cordoba women, like other Spanish, still retains a spring pure comfort for their sorrows
and disappointments: this spring is the Christian religion. Cordoba there is not deeply religious.

Among
men ungodliness has spread. The discharged soldier, returning home, has often bring a copy
of the citing authors, the papers are read, and not all are pious,
and finally, not missing student returning to college Krause infected
and even Hegel, and that addresses the rustic check to see if it makes
pantheistic and egotism.

Women do not understand, nor want to understand, so convoluted picky, and still attached to its old
beliefs.

They are the balm for all wounds of his heart, they will fill imperishable hopes, they open in his
ardent imagination infinite horizons, golden by the divine light of the sun of love and glory.

Even
for less stringent requirements and more vulgar satisfactions is religion a mine inexhaustible.
Almost all honest feminine pastime is based on religion. If it were not for her, Would there
be as happy as the pilgrimage of the Virgen de Araceli and the Virgen de la Sierra Goat? Child
Would Jesus wear? Would procession to do? Would passage of Abraham, Descent, Jews and Romans,
apostles and prophets, encolchados, ensabanados and jumeones, Cross brothers, and other figures
coming out in the streets during Holy Week? None of this would. No woman would jubilees or novenas,
or hear sermons or adorn with flowers no altar, no crosses or engalanaría May, or so happy in the
month of Mary. The swallows, who are now respected because he tore Christ with thorns peak the
crown, would be persecuted and killed, and would not come every year to nest in the eaves
or in the same house, or greet the owner with his gay peeps and squeaks. Especially for women
would be dead and meaningless, that takes religion. The Passiflora lose its symbolic value, and
to love her boyfriend or husband or lover, who she always combined with a presentiment of immortal
joys, and idealized, beautifies and praises with a thousand vague red glow of mysticism, whatever
became quite less poetic.

This is, in general, women in the province of Cordoba. If you go into details, it would this writing
endless.

In that province, as in all, a thousand degrees of culture and wealth, for varying types. There are
also individual differences in character Apparel and understanding.

I missed a very serious point. I'll touch, albeit slightly, before finishing the article. This
point is the philological: the language and style of Cordoba.

The Cordoba, usually (and understood that I speak of the laborer or servant, and not elegant and educated
lady), hache sucks. It also has remarkable propensity to corroborate words with strong syllables
prefixed. When not satisfied with rogue call anyone, retunante called,
and God was not enough, exclaims: Redio!

In several towns in my province and in many towns of Jaen, it is very frequent some inarticulate
interjection which coincides with a snore. The Cordoba, finally, adorns his speech with a
thousand pictures and pictures, he peppered with witticisms and jokes, and encouraged by the
gesture and gesticulation.

The adverb is used to blanket every moment to weigh or abundance of
something expensive.

The voices blankets, manteson, Mantese and mantesonada, mantesería and mantesonería, dot or
fill up all conversation as much of charran Malaga and its derivatives. Is even more unique the
use of the gerund in short, to express something is done smoothly and softness. So you say "Don
Fulano is muriendito. Deseandito The girl is married, or rabiandito by boyfriend. "

In pronunciation leaves a bit to be desired of Cordoba. The Zeda and confused that and unimisman
in their mouths, and the elements, the ere and pe.

Who knows if it would be a teacher Cordoba crumb which told his disciples: "Girls, deaf and
precerto writes ele PE '? But if the pronunciation is this anarchy, the syntax and the lexical well
as the Cordoba Cordoba, are abundant and extremely elegant at times, and always castizos,
easy and funny. No Castilla few people could go there to learn to speak Castilian, as not to
rule.

No servile adulation assure that the Cordoba is usually discreet, funny and sharp. Its natural clearing
supplies in it very often lack of education and knowledge. His talks are hilarious. Facunda is
naturally and spontaneously in what he says and thinks. Friendly laughing and teasing, teasing
men, and they released a thousand barbs sharp and pointed, but never rages.

What else should I add? Cordoba is a miser and a generous, but all
are generous and charities.

Cordoba is still reading old books, the most devout, who belonged her great-grandmother, and
they are as linked in the house; v. gr.: La Perfecta Casada, teacher Leon, The contempt of court
and praise of the village, and Mount Calvary, Fray Antonio de Guevara, and even the Complete
Works (about twenty volumes in folio) of the venerable Palafox. I do not say fantasizing: I have known
villager Cordoba had and read these and other books like that. Others read modern novels of the
worst. Others do not read anything.

Women must have been in Seville or Madrid, who have gone to Manchester
and have seen the sea; and women are never left their small village,
and Madrid are so confused idea like that I am of the cities that
may be on another planet.

Almost none are dissatisfied with their lot. Good pasta is very common. Pride also excited to
underestimate the what is within their reach, and the love of country, contained within the
narrow limits the people that were born and raised, it becomes more intense, energetic and
crisp, and moves to the frenzy that people love and that society,
in preference to all, and stirred almost with fury against anyone
who censorship.

Were I to continue counting and painting things circumstantially,
write a tome of five or six hundred pages.

Let us therefore point here, and thanks to this article not small for long, as the reader has enough
indulgence, roam and quiet, for read all without anger, fatigue, or yawning.

SOME Chrematistics

MEDITATION (a).

I.

When Virgil, inspired by the ancient verses of the Sibyl, the
general expectation among all nations that was to come a savior, and
maybe some news he had of the Hebrew prophets, predicted more or less
vaguely, in his famous Eclogue IV, redemption the world, yet it seemed
that this redemption was not to be instant, however miraculous it
was, and so I said priscae vestigia suberunt fraudis: not a few remnants
remain tunanterías past and misery.

(A) Published in The Magazine
of Spain in 1870.

"Put up your hands," said Challoner, with a contemptuous laugh. "And now listen to me. I want
no quarrel with you--don't force one on me. Now clear out."

Without a word the baffled man turned away. But the look of savage hatred that gleamed in his
fierce eyes told Challoner that he had made a dangerous enemy. And only a few days passed before
he heard from the natives that Larmer said he would have his revenge--and the brass gun as
well--before many months were over.

But the trader, though apparently taking no heed, was yet watchful. His influence with the
natives of the Jakoits district was great, for they both liked and trusted him as a just and
honourable man, and he knew that they would rally round him if Larmer attempted either to carry
off the gun or do harm to him.

For some months matters went on at Jakoits very quietly, and the last of the whaling fleet
having sailed, Challoner and Dawson went about their usual work again, such as trading along
the coast in their whaleboats and storing their cocoanut oil in readiness for the Mocassin,
the trading ship which visited them once a year, and was now due.

Although living only a few miles apart from each other, the two did not very often meet, but
Challoner was one day surprised to see Dawson's boat pulling into the beach, for he had had
a visit from his friend only the previous evening. The moment the boat touched the sand Dawson
jumped out, and Challoner at once saw by the anxious expression on his face that something
was wrong.

He soon learnt Dawson's news, which was bad enough. The Mocassin had run ashore in the night
at a place five miles away from Dawson's village, and it was feared she would become a total
wreck unless she could be lightened and floated over the reef into smooth water. The captain
had sent an urgent message for aid, and in less than half an hour the two men were on their
way to the wreck, accompanied by nearly every male native in Challoner's village.

Towards sunset on the following day, just as the boats were in sight, returning from the wreck,
Tiaru, the trader's wife, with her one child and some of her female relatives, were coming
from their bathe in the sea, when they heard screams from the village, and presently some terrified
women fled past them, calling out that Larmer and another white man and a number of their native
allies were carrying away the brass gun. In an instant the young wife gave the babe to a woman
near her, and darted towards her husband's house. A number of women and children, encouraged
by her presence, ran to alarm the approaching boats.

In front of the trader's house Larmer and another beachcomber were directing a score of Kiti
natives how to sling the heavy gun between two stout poles. A sentry stood on guard at the
gate of Challoner's fence, but Tiaru dashed his crossed musket aside, and then sprang into
the midst of her husband's enemies.

"Set down the gun," she panted indignantly, "ye coward men of Rôan Kiti, and ye white men thieves,
who only dare to come and steal when there are but women to meet and fight with thee."

Larmer laughed.

"Get out o' this, you meddling fool," he said in English, and then, calling to the natives
to hasten ere it grew dark, he took no further notice of the woman before him. Then, as they
prepared to raise their burden by a united effort upon their naked shoulders, Tiaru sprang
into the house and quickly reappeared with a heavy knife in her hand. Twisting her lithe body
from the grasp of one of the beachcombers, with flaming eyes she burst in amongst the gun carriers
and began slashing at the strips of green bark with which the cannon was lashed to the poles. In the smaller places are often be so rich
or so regular and architectural, but the flowers and plants are kept more love, with real care.
The lady, in the spring and the summer evenings, usually sewing or gathering in the courtyard, whose
walls are covered with a carpet of vegetables. Ivy, passion flower, jasmine, lemon, honeysuckle,
rose vine and other climbing plants, weave the tapestry with interlocking sheets and embroidered
it with flowers and fruits. Perhaps it is covered with a leafy bower much of the patio: and
at its center, so that looks good for the gate, if there is such, stands a flowerbed, consisting
of many containers, placed on wooden benches or escaloncillos. There carnations, roses, Miramelindo
Marimon, basil, boxwood, euonymus, sharp, and much laureola dompedro fragrant. Missing or flowerbeds
all around, where the flowers are also abundant, and for more delicacy and under the flowers are
gorgeous gorges, where they form a thousand reeds drawings and mazes, ending in triangles
and other mathematical figures. The upper points of the rods, which are interwoven with those
fences or gates, usually take two separate ornament eggshells or cute and glazed zucchini. Bees and
wasps buzz and encourage the playground during the day. The Nightingale gives music at night.

In
the winter, Córdoba takes good care of evergreens beautify your room. Canaries or finches remember
the spring with their songs, and if the householder is a hunter,
partridges and quails are not lacking songbirds in their cages, and
guns and trophies Hunting adorn the walls.

Around the home, almost in conversation with the masters, are to be placed the hounds and the
hounds.

Still in the aristocratic houses of the places there is usually a clown or funny like that remember,
though for the rustic, the lackey of our old comedies.

This funny has billion skills and game thrushes whistle and perch, and goldfinches to link or
network, and eel fishing getting into the ponds and streams, and catching them by hand. Some of
these usually his little poet, gives the days to the lady in tenths, and composed songs in praise
and satire against rivals or opponents of their masters. Also accompanies and entertains children
and know a multitude of stories that relates to animation and lots of mime.

The maid of place no longer know too many stories, and with grace.



For some hours not a sound broke the silence, then a stone rolled down, and presently Larmer's
head appeared above a boulder. He looked carefully round, and then, finding all quiet, began
the descent. On the very edge of the pool he again stopped and listened, holding his pistol
at full cock. His left hand was slung to his chest by a piece of green hibiscus bark, which
was passed round his neck and roughly tied. This used to spend the gold pince-nez, and sometimes sat three
days at the piano.

III

Know how Pacorro met and who was it heavenly beauty.

The boy stretched the scope of their business operations in the middle
of a street that flow to the Puerta del Sol, busy street with nice
shops, which boast Day in their windows a thousand wonders of the
industry, and at night with bright light clarity of the gas.

