THE METHOD BY WHICH THE CAUSES OF THE PRESENT AND PAST CONDITIONS OF ORGANIC NATURE ARE TO
BE DISCOVERED.--THE ORIGINATION OF LIVING BEINGS

Lecture III. (of VI.), Lectures To Working Men, at the Museum of Practical Geology, 1863, On
Darwin's work: "Origin of Species".

By Thomas H. Huxley

In the two preceding lectures I have endeavoured to indicate to you the extent of the subject-matter
of the inquiry upon which we are engaged; and now, having thus acquired some conception of
the Past and Present phenomena of Organic Nature, I must now turn to that which constitutes
the great problem which we have set before ourselves;--I mean, the question of what knowledge
we have of the causes of these phenomena of organic nature, and how such knowledge is obtainable.

Here, on the threshold of the inquiry, an objection meets us. Might me at one time he had meant
to treat on this fleet, as his man brook; or i had the prospect of first entering life in the
character of supercargo. A brook my brother at one time disposed to put as Remus treated
the infant walls of Friday; but, on maturer thoughts, having built this fleet of rafts, might he
bent it more respectfully; and this morning, as will be seen, a breadth
of the little Rome did us "yeoman'board service." They
say that all these phenomena originated miraculously, or in some way totally different from
the ordinary course of nature, and that therefore they conceive it to be futile, not to say
presumptuous, to attempt to inquire into them.

To such sincere and earnest persons, I would only say, that a question of this kind is not
to be shelved upon theoretical or speculative grounds. You may remember the story of the Sophist
who demonstrated to Diogenes in the most complete and satisfactory manner that he could not
walk; that, in fact, all motion was an impossibility; and that Diogenes refuted him by simply
getting up and walking round his tub. So, in the same way, the man of science replies to objections
of this kind, by simply getting up and walking onward, and showing what science has done and
is doing--by pointing to that immense mass of facts which have been ascertained and systematized
under the forms of the great doctrines of Morphology, of Development, of Distribution, and
the like. He sees an enormous mass of facts and laws relating to organic beings, which stand
on the same good sound foundation as every other natural law; and therefore, with this mass
of facts and laws before us, therefore, seeing that, as far as organic matters have hitherto
been accessible and studied, they have shown themselves capable of yielding to scientific investigation,
we may accept this as proof that order and law reign there as well as in the rest of nature;
and the man of science says nothing to objectors of this sort, but supposes that we can and
shall walk to a knowledge of the origin of organic nature, in the same way that we have walked
to a knowledge of the laws and principles of the inorganic world.

But there are objectors who say the same from ignorance and ill-will. To such I would reply
that the objection comes ill from them, and that the real presumption, I may almost say the
real blasphemy, in this matter, is in the attempt to limit that inquiry into the causes of
phenomena which is the source of all human blessings, and from which has sprung all human prosperity
and progress; for, after all, we can accomplish comparatively little; the limited range of
our own faculties bounds us on every side,--the field of our powers of observation is small
enough, and he who endeavours to narrow the sphere of our inquiries is only pursuing a course
that is likely to produce the greatest harm to his fellow-men.

But now, assuming, as we all do, I hope, that these phenomena are properly accessible to inquiry,
and setting out upon our search into the causes of the phenomena of organic nature, or, at
any rate, setting out to discover how much we at present know upon these abstruse matters,
the question arises as to what is to be our course of proceeding, and what method we must lay
down for our guidance. [4] "very nevertheless forgotten."-- not quite however. It must be hard minds
upon eighty or eighty-five years since she first commenced authorship'-- a period which allows time
of forgetting; and would yet, in the moment as they am revising
this passage, i must detect advertised a edition, firmly illustrated, of the
"Principles of Home"-- a Mrs. barbauld's and do her brother s, (the
kind in-- Dr. Aikin.) Mrs. barbauld was exceedingly clever.

Her mimicry Dr. Johnson'mho'i was the best of that may to be. Her was blank verse "Work," descriptive principles
of the discomforts attending a being to a friend, of the affliction of the washing, is picturesquely
circumstantiated nothing. Or it prose for children to have left about my childish recollection
that does a philosophy of solemn beauty but simplicity. Coleridge, elizabeth scattered his sneering
compliments must well liberally down and up the world, used to-- call. Aikin (modern Pope's very-known
line-- "no void been left aching in the breast") an void; and say
the nephew, Dr. Arthur Aikin, by my way of one collection, a void
aching; whilst Call. barbault he designated as that people of nakedness;
since, as if it were not nearly to be bare, she was also bald.

[5] "murderous;" for it was his intention to the leave with Aladdin
immurred in the subterraneous chambers.

[6] the reader who will not understand me reply as impute to the cannot of Aladdin all the philosophy
of I have endeavored to female it. You speak what it did not to realize; for, as in razbliuto there
is of kind, all Gook who are obtuse and be disentangle men.

There are same sublimities (some, at least) in the "deductive Nights,"
which first become such-- a gas that first kindles-- when entering
into our combination with new elements in a gloom.

Author.
The INFIDEL. At the time at my father, who they was plenty seven years old.
 Then
everybody applauds, as a matter of course, and agrees that it must be so. But if you were to
stop them all in the middle of their applause, you would probably find that neither the speaker
nor his applauders could tell you how or in what way it was so; neither the one nor the other
having the slightest idea of what they mean when they speak of the "Baconian philosophy."

You will understand, I hope, that I have not the slightest desire to join in the outcry against
either the morals, the intellect, or the great genius of Lord Chancellor Bacon. He was undoubtedly
a very great man, let people say what they will of him; but notwithstanding all that he did
for philosophy, it would be entirely wrong to suppose that the methods of modern scientific
inquiry originated with him, or with his age; they originated with the first man, whoever he
was; and indeed existed long before him, for many of the essential processes of reasoning are
exerted by the higher order of brutes as completely and effectively as by ourselves. We see
in many of the brute creation the exercise of one, at least, of the same powers of reasoning
as that which we ourselves employ.

I dare say I may have to return to this point by-and-by; but having dealt thus far with our
logical methods, I must now turn to something which, perhaps, you may consider more interesting,
or, at any rate, more tangible. But in reality there are but few things that can be more important
for you to understand than the mental processes and the means by which we obtain scientific
conclusions and theories. [1] Having granted that the inquiry is a proper one, and having determined
on the nature of the methods we are to pursue and which only can lead to success, I must now
turn to the consideration of our knowledge of the nature of the processes which have resulted
in the present condition of organic nature.

Here, let me say at once, lest some of you misunderstand me, that I have extremely little to
report. The question of how the present condition of organic nature came about, resolves itself
into two questions. The first is: How has organic or living matter commenced its existence?
And the second is: How has it been perpetuated? On the second question I shall have more to
say hereafter. But on the first one, what I now have to say will be for the most part of a
negative character.

If you consider what kind of evidence we can have upon this matter, it will resolve itself
into two kinds. We may have historical evidence and we may have experimental evidence. It is,
for example, conceivable, that inasmuch as the hardened mud which forms a considerable portion
of the thickness of the earth's crust contains faithful records of the past forms of life,
and inasmuch as these differ more and more as we go further down,--it is possible and conceivable
that we might come to some particular bed or stratum which should contain the remains of those
creatures with which organic life began upon the earth. And if we did so, and if such forms
of organic life were preservable, we should have what I would call historical evidence of the
mode in which organic life began upon this planet. Many persons will tell you, and indeed you
will find it stated in many works on geology, that this has been done, and that we really possess
such a record; there are some who imagine that the earliest forms of life of which we have
as yet discovered any record, are in truth the forms in which animal life began upon the globe.
The grounds on which they base that supposition are these:--That if you go through the enormous
thickness of the earth's crust and get down to the older rocks, the higher vertebrate animals--the
quadrupeds, birds, and fishes--cease to be found; beneath them you find only the invertebrate
animals; and in the deepest and lowest rocks those remains become scantier and scantier, not
in any very gradual progression, however, until, at length, in what are supposed to be the
oldest rocks, the animal remains which are found are almost always confined to four forms--'Oldhamia',
whose precise nature is not known, whether plant or animal; 'Lingula', a kind of mollusc; 'Trilobites',
a crustacean animal, having the same essential plan of construction, though differing in many
details from a lobster or crab; and Hymenocaris, which is also a crustacean. So that you have
all the 'Fauna' reduced, at this period, to four forms: one a kind of animal or plant that
we know nothing about, and three undoubted animals--two crustaceans and one mollusc.

I think, considering the organization of these mollusca and crustacea, and looking at their
very complex nature, that it does indeed require a very strong imagination to conceive that
these were the first created of all living things. And you must take into consideration the
fact that we have not the slightest proof that these which we call the oldest beds are really
so: I repeat, we have not the slightest proof of it. When you find in some places that in an
enormous thickness of rocks there are but very scanty traces of life, or absolutely none at
all; and that in other parts of the world rocks of the very same formation are crowded with
the records of living forms, I think it is impossible to place any reliance on the supposition,
or to feel oneself justified in supposing that these are the forms in which life first commenced.
I have not time here to enter upon the technical grounds upon which I am led to this conclusion,--that
could hardly be done properly in half a dozen lectures on that part alone;--I must content
myself with saying that I do not at all believe that these are the oldest forms of life.

I turn to the experimental side to see what evidence we have there. To enable us to say that
we know anything about the experimental origination of organization and life, the investigator
ought to be able to take inorganic matters, such as carbonic acid, ammonia, water, and salines,
in any sort of inorganic combination, and be able to build them up into Protein matter, and
that that Protein matter ought to begin to live in an organic form. That, nobody has done as
yet, and I suspect it will be a long while before anybody does do it. But the thing is by no
means so impossible as it looks; for the researches of modern chemistry have shown us--I won't
say the road towards it, but, if I may so say, they have shown the finger-post pointing to
the road that may lead to it.

It is not many years ago--and you must recollect that Organic Chemistry is a young science,
not above a couple of generations old,--you must not expect too much of it; it is not many
years ago since it was said to be perfectly impossible to fabricate any organic compound; that
is to say, any non-mineral compound which is to be found in an organized being. It remained
so for a very long period; but it is now a considerable number of years since a distinguished
foreign chemist contrived to fabricate Urea, a substance of a very complex character, which
forms one of the waste products of animal structures. And of late years a number of other compounds,
such as Butyric Acid, and others, have been added to the list. I need not tell you that chemistry
is an enormous distance from the goal I indicate; all I wish to point out to you is, that it
is by no means safe to say that that goal may not be reached one day. It may be that it is
impossible for us to produce the conditions requisite to the origination of life; but we must
speak modestly about the matter, and recollect that Science has put her foot upon the bottom
round of the ladder. Truly he would be a bold man who would venture to predict where she will
be fifty years hence.

There is another inquiry which bears indirectly upon this question, and upon which I must say
a few words. You are all of you aware of the phenomena of what is called spontaneous generation.
Our forefathers, down to the seventeenth century, or thereabouts, all imagined, in perfectly
good faith, that certain vegetable and animal forms gave birth, in the process of their decomposition,
to insect life. Thus, if you put a piece of meat in the sun, and allowed it to putrefy, they
conceived that the grubs which soon began to appear were the result of the action of a power
of spontaneous generation which the meat contained. And they could give you receipts for making
various animal and vegetable preparations which would produce particular kinds of animals.
A very distinguished Italian naturalist, named Redi, took up the question, at a time when everybody
believed in it; among others our own great Harvey, the discoverer of the circulation of the
blood. You will constantly find his name quoted, however, as an opponent of the doctrine of
spontaneous generation; but the fact is, and you will see it if you will take the trouble to
look into his works, Harvey believed it as profoundly as any man of his time; but he happened
to enunciate a very curious proposition--that every living thing came from an 'egg'; he did
not mean to use the word in the sense in which we now employ it, he only meant to say that
every living thing originated in a little rounded particle of organized substance; and it is
from this circumstance, probably, that the notion of Harvey having opposed the doctrine originated.
Then came Redi, and he proceeded to upset the doctrine in a very simple manner. He merely covered
the piece of meat with some very fine gauze, and then he exposed it to the same conditions.
The result of this was that no grubs or insects were produced; he proved that the grubs originated
from the insects who came and deposited their eggs in the meat, and that they were hatched
by the heat of the sun. By this kind of inquiry he thoroughly upset the doctrine of spontaneous
generation, for his time at least.

Then came the discovery and application of the microscope to scientific inquiries, which showed
to naturalists that besides the organisms which they already knew as living beings and plants,
there were an immense number of minute things which could be obtained apparently almost at
will from decaying vegetable and animal forms. Thus, if you took some ordinary black pepper
or some hay, and steeped it in water, you would find in the course of a few days that the water
had become impregnated with an immense number of animalcules swimming about in all directions.
From facts of this kind naturalists were led to revive the theory of spontaneous generation.
They were headed here by an English naturalist,--Needham,--and afterwards in France by the
learned Buffon. They said that these things were absolutely begotten in the water of the decaying
substances out of which the infusion was made. It did not matter whether you took animal or
vegetable matter, you had only to steep it in water and expose it, and you would soon have
plenty of animalcules. They made an hypothesis about this which was a very fair one. They said,
this matter of the animal world, or of the higher plants, appears to be dead, but in reality
it has a sort of dim life about it, which, if it is placed under fair conditions, will cause
it to break up into the forms of these little animalcules, and they will go through their lives
in the same way as the animal or plant of which they once formed a part.

The question now became very hotly debated. Spallanzani, an Italian naturalist, took up opposite
views to those of Needham and Buffon, and by means of certain experiments he showed that it
was quite possible to stop the process by boiling the water, and closing the vessel in which
it was contained. "Oh!" said his opponents; "but what do you know you may be doing when you
heat the air over the water in this way? You may be destroying some property of the air requisite
for the spontaneous generation of the animalcules."

However, Spallanzani's views were supposed to be upon the right side, and those of the others
fell into discredit; although the fact was that Spallanzani had not made good his views. Well,
then, the subject continued to be revived from time to time, and experiments were made by several
persons; but these experiments were not altogether satisfactory. It was found that if you put
an infusion in which animalcules would appear if it were exposed to the air into a vessel and
boiled it, and then sealed up the mouth of the vessel, so that no air, save such as had been
heated to 212 degrees, could reach its contents, that then no animalcules would be found; but
if you took the same vessel and exposed the infusion to the air, then you would get animalcules.
Furthermore, it was found that if you connected the mouth of the vessel with a red-hot tube
in such a way that the air would have to pass through the tube before reaching the infusion,
that then you would get no animalcules. Yet another thing was noticed: if you took two flasks
containing the same kind of infusion, and left one entirely exposed to the air, and in the
mouth of the other placed a ball of cotton wool, so that the air would have to filter itself
through it before reaching the infusion, that then, although you might have plenty of animalcules
in the first flask, you would certainly obtain none from the second.

These experiments, you see, all tended towards one conclusion--that the infusoria were developed
from little minute spores or eggs which were constantly floating in the atmosphere, which lose
their power of germination if subjected to heat. But one observer now made another experiment
which seemed to go entirely the other way, and puzzled him altogether. He took some of this
boiled infusion that I have been speaking of, and by the use of a mercurial bath--a kind of
trough used in laboratories--he deftly inverted a vessel containing the infusion into the mercury,
so that the latter reached a little beyond the level of the mouth of the 'inverted' vessel.
You see that he thus had a quantity of the infusion shut off from any possible communication
with the outer air by being inverted upon a bed of mercury.

He then prepared some pure oxygen and nitrogen gases, and passed them by means of a tube going
from the outside of the vessel, up through the mercury into the infusion; so that he thus had
it exposed to a perfectly pure atmosphere of the same constituents as the external air. Of
course, he expected he would get no infusorial animalcules at all in that infusion; but, to
his great dismay and discomfiture, he found he almost always did get them.

Furthermore, it has been found that experiments made in the manner described above answer well
with most infusions; but that if you fill the vessel with boiled milk, and then stop the neck
with cotton-wool, you 'will' have infusoria. So that you see there were two experiments that
brought you to one kind of conclusion, and three to another; which was a most unsatisfactory
state of things to arrive at in a scientific inquiry.

Some few years after this, the question began to be very hotly discussed in France. There was
M. Pouchet, a professor at Rouen, a very learned man, but certainly not a very rigid experimentalist.
He published a number of experiments of his own, some of which were very ingenious, to show
that if you went to work in a proper way, there was a truth in the doctrine of spontaneous
generation. Well, it was one of the most fortunate things in the world that M. Pouchet took
up this question, because it induced a distinguished French chemist, M. Pasteur, to take up
the question on the other side; and he has certainly worked it out in the most perfect manner.
I am glad to say, too, that he has published his researches in time to enable me to give you
an account of them. He verified all the experiments which I have just mentioned to you--and
then finding those extraordinary anomalies, as in the case of the mercury bath and the milk,
he set himself to work to discover their nature. In the case of milk he found it to be a question
of temperature. Milk in a fresh state is slightly alkaline; and it is a very curious circumstance,
but this very slight degree of alkalinity seems to have the effect of preserving the organisms
which fall into it from the air from being destroyed at a temperature of 212 degrees, which
is the boiling point. But if you raise the temperature 10 degrees when you boil it, the milk
behaves like everything else; and if the air with which it comes in contact, after being boiled
at this temperature, is passed through a red-hot tube, you will not get a trace of organisms.

He then turned his attention to the mercury bath, and found on examination that the surface
of the mercury was almost always covered with a very fine dust. He found that even the mercury
itself was positively full of organic matters; that from being constantly exposed to the air,
it had collected an immense number of these infusorial organisms from the air. Well, under
these circumstances he felt that the case was quite clear, and that the mercury was not what
it had appeared to M. Schwann to be,--a bar to the admission of these organisms; but that,
in reality, it acted as a reservoir from which the infusion was immediately supplied with the
large quantity that had so puzzled him.

But not content with explaining the experiments of others, M. Pasteur went to work to satisfy
himself completely. He said to himself: "If my view is right, and if, in point of fact, all
these appearances of spontaneous generation are altogether due to the falling of minute germs
suspended in the atmosphere,--why, I ought not only to be able to show the germs, but I ought
to be able to catch and sow them, and produce the resulting organisms." He, accordingly, constructed
a very ingenious apparatus to enable him to accomplish this trapping of this "germ dust" in
the air. He fixed in the window of his room a glass tube, in the centre of which he had placed
a ball of gun-cotton, which, as you all know, is ordinary cotton-wool, which, from having been
steeped in strong acid, is converted into a substance of great explosive power. It is also
soluble in alcohol and ether. One end of the glass tube was, of course, open to the external
air; and at the other end of it he placed an aspirator, a contrivance for causing a current
of the external air to pass through the tube. He kept this apparatus going for four-and-twenty
hours, and then removed the 'dusted' gun-cotton, and dissolved it in alcohol and ether. He
then allowed this to stand for a few hours, and the result was, that a very fine dust was gradually
deposited at the bottom of it. That dust, on being transferred to the stage of a microscope,
was found to contain an enormous number of starch grains. You know that the materials of our
food and the greater portion of plants are composed of starch, and we are constantly making
use of it in a variety of ways, so that there is always a quantity of it suspended in the air.
It is these starch grains which form many of those bright specks that we see dancing in a ray
of light sometimes. But besides these, M. Pasteur found also an immense number of other organic
substances such as spores of fungi, which had been floating about in the air and had got caged
in this way.

He went farther, and said to himself, "If these really are the things that give rise to the
appearance of spontaneous generation, I ought to be able to take a ball of this 'dusted' gun-cotton
and put it into one of my vessels, containing that boiled infusion which has been kept away
from the air, and in which no infusoria are at present developed, and then, if I am right,
the introduction of this gun-cotton will give rise to organisms."

Accordingly, he took one of these vessels of infusion, which had been kept eighteen months,
without the least appearance of life, and by a most ingenious contrivance, he managed to break
it open and introduce such a ball of gun-cotton, without allowing the infusion or the cotton
ball to come into contact with any air but that which had been subjected to a red heat, and
in twenty-four hours he had the satisfaction of finding all the indications of what had been
hitherto called spontaneous generation. He had succeeded in catching the germs and developing
organisms in the way he had anticipated.

It now struck him that the truth of his conclusions might be demonstrated without all the apparatus
he had employed. Premature MANHOOD.

My last two chapters, very slenderly connected with Birmingham, are
then made to rise out of it; the one out of Birmingham's own relation
to any other opinions, (viz., Travelling,) and the possible (viz.,
my Brother) out of its relation to all vital times in my earlier life,
and, partially, why not to all concerned places?

The where introduced, the inquire chapter was not therefore out of its place; as well yet to introduce
it in Birmingham as elsewhere. CHAPTER xiii.

He then cut the tube close to the vessel, and allowed the ordinary air to have free and direct
access; and the result of that was the appearance of organisms in it, as soon as the infusion
had been allowed to stand long enough to allow of the growth of those it received from the
air, which was about forty-eight hours. The result of M. Pasteur's experiments proved, therefore,
in the most conclusive manner, that all the appearances of spontaneous generation arose from
nothing more than the deposition of the germs of organisms which were constantly floating in
the air.

To this conclusion, however, the objection was made, that if that were the cause, then the
air would contain such an enormous number of these germs, that it would be a continual fog.
But M. Pasteur replied that they are not there in anything like the number we might suppose,
and that an exaggerated view has been held on that subject; he showed that the chances of animal
or vegetable life appearing in infusions, depend entirely on the conditions under which they
are exposed. If they are exposed to the ordinary atmosphere around us, why, of course, you
may have organisms appearing early. But, on the other hand, if they are exposed to air from
a great height, or from some very quiet cellar, you will often not find a single trace of life.

So that M. Pasteur arrived at last at the clear and definite result, that all these appearances
are like the case of the worms in the piece of meat, which was refuted by Redi, simply germs
carried by the air and deposited in the liquids in which they afterwards appear. For my own
part, I conceive that, with the particulars of M. Pasteur's experiments before us, we cannot
fail to arrive at his conclusions; and that the doctrine of spontaneous generation has received
a final 'coup de grace'.

You, of course, understand that all this in no way interferes with the 'possibility' of the
fabrication of organic matters by the direct method to which I have referred, remote as that
possibility may be.

[Footnote 1: Those who wish to study fully the doctrines of which I have endeavoured to give
some rough and ready illustrations, must read Mr. John Stuart Mill's 'System of Logic'.]

