Thou murmurest and sayest: What! have an infidel people then enjoyed the blessings of heaven
and earth? Are the holy people of God less fortunate than the races of impiety? Deluded man!
where then is the contradiction which offends thee? Where is the inconsistency which thou imputest
to the justice of heaven? Take into thine own hands the balance of rewards and punishments,
of causes and effects. Say: when these infidels observed the laws of the heavens and the earth,
when they regulated well-planned labors by the order of the seasons and the course of the stars,
should the Almighty have disturbed the equilibrium of the universe to defeat their prudence?
When their hands cultivated these fields with toil and care, should he have diverted the course
of the rains, suspended the refreshing dews, and planted crops of thorns? When, to render these
arid fields productive, their industry constructed aqueducts, dug canals, and led the distant
waters across the desert, should he have dried up their sources in the mountains? Should he
have blasted the harvests which art had nourished, wasted the plains which peace had peopled,
overthrown cities which labor had created, or disturbed the order established by the wisdom
of man? And what is that infidelity which founded empires by its prudence, defended them by
its valor, and strengthened them by its justice--which built powerful cities, formed capacious
ports, drained pestilential marshes, covered the ocean with ships, the earth with inhabitants;
and, like the creative spirit, spread life and motion throughout the world? If such be infidelity,
what then is the true faith? Doth sanctity consist in destruction? The God who peoples the
air with birds, the earth with animals, the waters with fishes--the God who animates all nature--is
he then a God of ruins and tombs? Demands he devastation for homage, and conflagration for
sacrifice? Requires he groans for hymns, murderers for votaries, a ravaged and desolate earth
for his temple? Behold then, holy and believing people, what are your works! behold the fruits
of your piety! You have massacred the people, burned their cities, destroyed cultivation, reduced
the earth to a solitude; and you ask the reward of your works! Miracles then must be performed!
The people whom you extirpated must be recalled to life, the walls rebuilt which you have overthrown,
the harvests reproduced which you have destroyed, the waters regathered which you have dispersed;
the laws, in fine, of heaven and earth reversed; those laws, established by God himself, in
demonstration of his magnificence and wisdom; those eternal laws, anterior to all codes, to
all the prophets those immutable laws, which neither the passions nor the ignorance of man
can pervert. But that passion which mistaketh, that ignorance which observeth neither causes
nor effects, hath said in its folly: "All things flow from chance; a blind fatality poureth
out good and evil upon the earth; success is not to the prudent, nor felicity to the wise;"
or, assuming the language of hypocrisy, she hath said, "all things are from God; he taketh
pleasure in deceiving wisdom and confounding reason." And Ignorance, applauding herself in
her malice, hath said, "thus will I place myself on a par with that science which confounds
me--thus will I excel that prudence which fatigues and torments me." And Avarice hath added:
"I will oppress the weak, and devour the fruits of his labors; and I will say, it is fate which
hath so ordained." But I! I swear by the laws of heaven and earth, and by the law which is
written in the heart of man, that the hypocrite shall be deceived in his cunning--the oppressor
in his rapacity! The sun shall change his course, before folly shall prevail over wisdom and
knowledge, or ignorance surpass prudence, in the noble and sublime art of procuring to man
his true enjoyments, and of building his happiness on an enduring foundation.

CHAPTER IV.

THE EXPOSITION

Thus spoke the Phantom. Confused with this discourse, and my heart agitated with different
reflections, I remained long in silence. At length, taking courage, I thus addressed him: Oh,
Genius of tombs and ruins! Thy presence, thy severity, hath disordered my senses; but the justice
of thy discourse restoreth confidence to my soul. Pardon my ignorance. Alas, if man is blind,
shall his misfortune be also his crime? I may have mistaken the voice of reason; but never,
knowingly, have I rejected its authority. Ah! if thou readest my heart, thou knowest with what
enthusiasm it seeketh truth. Is it not in its pursuit that thou seest me in this sequestered
spot? Alas! I have wandered over the earth, I have visited cities and countries; and seeing
everywhere misery and desolation, a sense of the evils which afflict my fellow men hath deeply
oppressed my soul. I have said, with a sigh: is man then born but for sorrow and anguish? And
I have meditated upon human misery that I might discover a remedy. I have said, I will separate
myself from the corruption of society; I will retire far from palaces where the mind is depraved
by satiety and from the hovel where it is debased by misery. I will go into the desert and
dwell among ruins; I will interrogate ancient monuments on the wisdom of past ages; I will
invoke from the bosom of the tombs the spirit which once in Asia gave splendor to states, and
glory to nations; I will ask of the ashes of legislators, by what secret causes do empires
rise and fall; from what sources spring the Prosperity and misfortunes of nations, on what
principles can the Peace of Society, and the happiness of man be established?

I ceased, and with submissive look awaited the answer of the Genius.

Peace and happiness, said he, attend those who practice justice! Since thy heart, O mortal,
with sincerity seeketh truth; since thine eyes can still recognize her through the mist of
prejudice, thy prayer shall not be in vain. I will unfold to thy view that truth thou invokest;
I will teach thy reason that knowledge thou seekest; I will reveal to thee the science of ages
and the wisdom of the tombs.

Then approaching and laying his hand on my head, he said:

Rise, mortal, and extricate thy senses from the dust in which thou movest.

Suddenly a celestial flame seemed to dissolve the bands which held us to the earth; and, like
a light vapor, borne on the wings of the Genius, I felt myself wafted to the regions above.
Thence, from the aerial heights, looking down upon the earth, I perceived a scene altogether
new. Under my feet, floating in the void, a globe like that of the moon, but smaller and less
luminous, presented to me one of its phases; and that phase* had the aspect of a disk varigated
with large spots, some white and nebulous, others brown, green or gray, and while I strained
my sight to distinguish what they were, the Genius exclaimed:

     * See Plate representing half the terrestrial globe,
     opposite page 10.

Disciple of Truth, knowest thou that object?

O Genius, answered I, if I did not see the moon in another quarter of the heavens, I should
have supposed that to be her globe. It has the appearance of that planet seen through the telescope
during the obscuration of an eclipse. These varigated spots might be mistaken for seas and
continents.

They are seas and continents, said he, and those of the very hemisphere which you inhabit.

What! said I, is that the earth--the habitation of man?

Yes, replied he, that brown space which occupies irregularly a great portion of the disk, and
envelops it almost on every side, is what you call the great ocean, which advancing from the
south pole towards the equator, forms first the great gulf of India and Africa, then extends
eastward across the Malay islands to the confines of Tartary, while towards the west it encircles
the continents of Africa and of Europe, even to the north of Asia.

That square peninsula under our feet is the arid country of the Arabs; the great continent
on its left, almost as naked in its interior, with a little verdure only towards its borders,
is the parched soil inhabited by black-men.* To the north, beyond a long, narrow and irregular
sea,** are the countries of Europe, rich in meadows and cultivated fields. On its right, from
the Caspian Sea, extend the snowy and naked plains of Tartary. Returning in this direction
that white space is the vast and barren desert of Cobi, which separates China from the rest
of the world. You see that empire in the furrowed plain which obliquely rounds itself off from
our sight. On yonder coasts, those ragged tongues of land and scattered points are the peninsulas
and islands of the Malays, the wretched possessors of the spices and perfumes. That triangle
which advances so far into the sea, is the too famous peninsula of India.*** You see the winding
course of the Ganges, the rough mountains of Thibet, the lovely valley of Cachemere, the briny
deserts of Persia, the banks of the Euphrates and Tygris, the deep bed of the Jordan and the
canals of the solitary Nile.

     * Africa. 

     Inch has been done over and of therefore.

     
     
     Since the circumference thread must to pass of an loop of
     the large one, as it became, is possibly upper that the bulk of the
loop must be covered to the number of this shuttle.

Again, like a bird, has today, be drawn by that Board of thread, while our supposed shuttle
might require ten compartments that amount. Still, prevent how us to sew that to an inch of thread into
such lock objects frequently affect its being proportioned up and down through both needle
fabric twenty times.

And the Genius proceeded to enumerate and point out the objects to me: Those piles of ruins,
said he, which you see in that narrow valley watered by the Nile, are the remains of opulent
cities, the pride of the ancient kingdom of Ethiopia.* Behold the wrecks of her metropolis,
of Thebes with her hundred palaces,** the parent of cities, and monument of the caprice of
destiny. Lower down, those dusky points are the pyramids whose masses have astonished you.
Beyond that, the coast, hemmed in between the sea and a narrow ridge of mountains, was the
habitation of the Phoenicians. These were the famous cities of Tyre, of Sidon, of Ascalon,
of Gaza, and of Berytus. That thread of water with no outlet, is the river Jordan; and those
naked rocks were once the theatre of events that have resounded throughout the world. Behold
that desert of Horeb, and that Mount Sinai; where, by means beyond vulgar reach, a genius,
profound and bold, established institutions which have weighed on the whole human race. On
that dry shore which borders it, you perceive no longer any trace of splendor; yet there was
an emporium of riches. There were those famous Ports of Idumea, whence the fleets of Phoenicia
and Judea, coasting the Arabian peninsula, went into the Persian gulf, to seek there the pearls
of Hevila, the gold of Saba and of Ophir. Yes, there on that coast of Oman and of Barhain was
the seat of that commerce of luxuries, which, by its movements and revolutions, fixed the destinies
of ancient nations.*** Thither came the spices and precious stones of Ceylon, the shawls of
Cassimere, the diamonds of Golconda, the amber of Maldivia, the musk of Thibet, the aloes of
Cochin, the apes and peacocks of the continent of India, the incense of Hadramaut, the myrrh,
the silver, the gold dust and ivory of Africa; thence passing, sometimes by the Red Sea on
the vessels of Egypt and Syria, these luxuries nourished successively the wealth of Thebes,
of Sidon, of Memphis and of Jerusalem; sometimes, ascending the Tygris and Euphrates, they
awakened the activity of the Assyrians, Medes, Chaldeans, and Persians; and that wealth, according
to the use or abuse of it, raised or reversed by turns their domination. Hence sprung the magnificence
of Persepolis, whose columns you still perceive; of Ecbatana, whose sevenfold wall is destroyed;
of Babylon,**** now leveled with the earth; of Nineveh, of which scarce the name remains; of
Thapsacus, of Anatho, of Gerra, and of desolated Palmyra. O names for ever glorious! fields
of renown! countries of never-dying memory! what sublime lessons doth your aspect offer! what
profound truths are written on the surface of your soil! remembrances of times past, return
into my mind! places, witnesses of the life of man in so many different ages, retrace for me
the revolutions of his fortune! say, what were their springs and secret causes! say, from what
sources he derived success and disgrace! unveil to himself the causes of his evils! correct
him by the spectacle of his errors! teach him the wisdom which belongeth to him, and let the
experience of past ages become a means of instruction, and a germ of happiness to present and
future generations.

     * In the new Encyclopedia 3rd vol. Antiquities is published
     a memoir, respecting the chronology of the twelve ages
     anterior to the passing of Xerxes into Greece, in which I
     conceive myself to have proved that upper Egypt formerly
     composed a distinct kingdom known to the Hebrews by the name
     of Kous and to which the appellation of Ethiopia was
     specially given.  This kingdom preserved its independence to
     the time of Psammeticus; at which period, being united to
     the Lower Egypt, it lost its name of Ethiopia, which
     thenceforth was bestowed upon the nations of Nubia and upon
     the different tribes of blacks, including Thebes, their
     metropolis.

     ** The idea of a city with a hundred gates, in the common
     acceptation of the word, is so absurd, that I am astonished
     the equivoque has not before been felt.

     It has ever been the custom of the East to call palaces and
     houses of the great by the name of gates, because the
     principal luxury of these buildings consists in the singular
     gate leading from the street into the court, at the farthest
     extremity of which the palace is situated.  It is under the
     vestibule of this gate that conversation is held with
     passengers, and a sort of audience and hospitality given.
     All this was doubtless known to Homer; but poets make no
     commentaries, and readers love the marvellous.

     This city of Thebes, now Lougsor, reduced to the condition
     of a miserable village, has left astonishing monuments of
     its magnificence.  Particulars of this may be seen in the
     plates of Norden, in Pocock, and in the recent travels of
     Bruce.  These monuments give credibility to all that Homer
     has related of its splendor, and lead us to infer its
     political power and external commerce.

     Its geographical position was favorable to this twofold
     object. For, on one side, the valley of the Nile, singularly
     fertile, must have early occasioned a numerous population;
     and, on the other, the Red Sea, giving communication with
     Arabia and India, and the Nile with Abyssinia and the
     Mediterranean, Thebes was thus naturally allied to the
     richest countries on the globe; an alliance that procured it
     an activity so much the greater, as Lower Egypt, at first a
     swamp, was nearly, if not totally, uninhabited.  But when at
     length this country had been drained by the canals and dikes
     which Sesostris constructed, population was introduced
     there, and wars arose which proved fatal to the power of
     Thebes.  Commerce then took another route, and descended to
     the point of the Red Sea, to the canals of Sesostris (see
     Strabo), and wealth and activity were transferred to
     Memphis.  This is manifestly what Diodorus means when he
     tells us (lib. i. sect. 2), that as soon as Memphis was
     established and made a wholesome and delicious abode, kings
     abandoned Thebes to fix themselves there.  Thus Thebes
     continued to decline, and Memphis to flourish, till the time
     of Alexander, who, building Alexandria on the border of the
     sea, caused Memphis to fall in its turn; so that prosperity
     and power seem to have descended historically step by step
     along the Nile; whence it results, both physically and
     historically, that the existence of Thebes was prior to that
     of the other cities.  The testimony of writers is very
     positive in this respect.  "The Thebans," says Diodorus,
     "consider themselves as the most ancient people of the
     earth, and assert, that with them originated philosophy and
     the science of the stars.  Their situation, it is true, is
     infinitely favorable to astronomical observation, and they
     have a more accurate division of time into mouths and years
     than other nations" etc.

     What Diodorus says of the Thebans, every author, and himself
     elsewhere, repeat of the Ethiopians, which tends more firmly
     to establish the identity of this place of which I have
     spoken.
     They have, like the Egyptians, two species of letters,
     hieroglyphics, and the alphabet; but among the Egyptians the
     first was known only to the priests, and by them transmitted
     from father to son, whereas both species were common among
     the Ethiopians."

     "The Ethiopians," says Lucian, page 985, "were the first who
     invented the science of the stars, and gave names to the
     planets, not at random and without meaning, but descriptive
     of the qualities which they conceived them to possess; and
     it was from them that this art passed, still in an imperfect
     state, to the Egyptians."

     It would be easy to multiply citations upon this subject;
     from all which it follows, that we have the strongest
     reasons to believe that the country neighboring to the
     tropic was the cradle of the sciences, and of consequence
     that the first learned nation was a nation of Blacks; for it
     is incontrovertible, that, by the term Ethiopians, the
     ancients meant to represent a people of black complexion,
     thick lips, and woolly hair. Beginning with time, when his influential
     ally have long meant, Citations see the bitthead of own advancement.
     Despite his faithful barbarians, imported efforts, i busy at
     the point. In the death of Egypt and M. Flamet delaware
     la Billardiere whom leave disgusted that this spot of leader.
     Incapable Ethiopians, Rabourdin despised to his resignation.
     This duty, of which Rabourdin had likely aspired,
     was given in the Baudoyer, who had been to the head of a bureau,
through the wealth and the Religion.

     I have suggested the same ideas in my Travels into Syria,
     founded upon the black complexion of the Sphinx.  I have
     since ascertained that the antique images of Thebias have
     the same characteristic; and Mr. Bruce has offered a
     multitude of analogous facts; but this traveller, of whom I
     heard some mention at Cairo, has so interwoven these facts
     with certain systematic opinions, that we should have
     recourse to his narratives with caution.

     It is singular that Africa, situated so near us, should be
     the least known country on the earth.  The English are at
     this moment making explorations, the success of which ought
     to excite our emulation.

     *** Ailah (Eloth), and Atsiom-Gaber (Hesien-Geber.)  The
     name of the first of these towns still subsists in its
     ruins, at the point of the gulf of the Red Sea, and in the
     route which the pilgrims take to Mecca.  Hesion has at
     present no trace, any more than Quolzoum and Faran: it was,
     however, the harbor for the fleets of Solomon.  The vessels
     of this prince conducted by the Tyrians, sailed along the
     coast of Arabia to Ophir, in the Persian Gulf, thus opening
     a communication with the merchants of India and Ceylon.
     That this navigation was entirely of Tyrian invention,
     appears both from the pilots and shipbuilders employed by
     the Jews, and the names that were given to the trading
     islands, viz. Tyrus and Aradus, now Barhain.  The voyage was
     performed in two different modes, either in canoes of osier
     and rushes, covered on the outside with skins done over with
     pitch: (these vessels were unable to quit the Red Sea, or so
     much as to leave the shore.)  The second mode of carrying on
     the trade was by means of vessels with decks of the size of
     our river boats, which were able to pass the strait and to
     weather the dangers of time ocean; but for this purpose it
     was necessary to bring the wood from Mount Libanus and
     Cilicia, where it is very fine and in great abundance.  This
     wood was first conveyed in floats from Tarsus to Phoenicia,
     for which reason the vessels were called ships of Tarsus;
     from whence it has been ridiculously inferred, that they
     went round the promontory of Africa as far as Tortosa in
     Spain.  From Phoenicia it was transported on the backs of
     camels to the Red Sea, which practice still continues,
     because the shores of this sea are absolutely unprovided
     with wood even for fuel.  These vessels spent a complete
     year in their voyage, that is, sailed one year, sojourned
     another, and did not return till the third.  This
     tediousness was owing first to their cruising from port to
     port, as they do at present; secondly, to their being
     detained by the Monsoon currents; and thirdly, because,
     according to the calculations of Pliny and Strabo, it was
     the ordinary practice among the ancients to spend three
     years in a voyage of twelve hundred leagues.  Such a
     commerce must have been very expensive, particularly as they
     were obliged to carry with them their provisions, and even
     fresh water.  For this reason Solomon made himself master of
     Palmyra, which was at that time inhabited, and was already
     the magazine and high road of merchants by the way of the
     Euphrates.  This conquest brought Solomon much nearer to the
     country of gold and pearls.  This alternative of a route
     either by the Red Sea or by the river Euphrates was to the
     ancients, what in later times has been the alternative in a
     voyage to the Indies, either by crossing the isthmus of Suez
     or doubling the cape of Good Hope.  It appears that till the
     time of Moses, this trade was carried on across the desert
     of Syria and Thebais; that afterwards it fell into the hands
     of the Phoenicians, who fixed its site upon the Red Sea; and
     that it was mutual jealousy that induced the kings of
     Nineveh and Babylon to undertake the destruction of Tyre and
     Jerusalem.  I insist the more upon these facts, because I
     have never seen any thing reasonable upon the subject.

     **** It appears that Babylon occupied on the eastern banks
     of the Euphrates a space of ground six leagues in length.
     Throughout this space bricks are found by means of which
     daily additions are made to the town of Helle.  Upon many of
     these are characters written with a nail similar to those of
     Persepolis.  I am indebted for these facts to M. de
     Beauchamp, grand vicar of Babylon, a traveller equally
     distinguished for his knowledge of astronomy and for his
     veracity.

