Another striking effect of the flash burn was the autumnal appearance of the bowl formed by
the hills on three sides of the explosion point. The ridges are about 1.5 miles from X.  Throughout
this bowl the foliage turned yellow, although on the far side of the ridges the countryside
was quite green.  This autumnal appearance of the trees extended to about 8,000 feet from X.

However, shrubs and small plants quite near the center of explosion in Hiroshima, although
stripped of leaves, had obviously not been killed. Many were throwing out new buds when observers
visited the city.

There are two other remarkable effects of the heat radiated from the bomb explosion.  The first
of these is the manner in which heat roughened the surface of polished granite, which retained
its polish only where it was shielded from the radiated heat travelling in straight lines from
the explosion.  This roughening by radiated heat caused by the unequal expansion of the constituent
crystals of the stone; for granite crystals the melting temperature is about 600 deg centigrade.
Therefore the depth of roughening and ultimate flaking of the granite surface indicated the
depth to which this temperature occurred and helped to determine the average ground temperatures
in the instant following the explosion.  This effect was noted for distances about 1 1/2 times
as great in Nagasaki as in Hiroshima.

The second remarkable effect was the bubbling of roof tile.  The size of the bubbles and their
extent was proportional to their nearness to the center of explosion and also depended on how
squarely the tile itself was faced toward the explosion.  The distance ratio of this effect
between Nagasaki and Hiroshima was about the same as for the flaking of polished granite.

Various other effects of the radiated heat were noted, including the lightening of asphalt
road surfaces in spots which had not been protected from the radiated heat by any object such
as that of a person walking along the road.  Various other surfaces were discolored in different
ways by the radiated heat.

As has already been mentioned the fact that radiant heat traveled only in straight lines from
the center of explosion enabled observers to determine the direction toward the center of explosion
from a number of different points, by observing the "shadows" which were cast by intervening
objects where they shielded the otherwise exposed surface of some object.  Thus the center
of explosion was located with considerable accuracy.  In a number of cases these "shadows"
also gave an indication of the height of burst of the bomb and occasionally a distinct penumbra
was found which enabled observers to calculate the diameter of the ball of fire at the instant
it was exerting the maximum charring or burning effect.

One more interesting feature connected with heat radiation was the charring of fabric to different
degrees depending upon the color of the fabric.  A number of instances were recorded in which
persons wearing clothing of various colors received burns greatly varying in degree, the degree
of burn depending upon the color of the fabric over the skin in question.  For example a shirt
of alternate light and dark gray stripes, each about 1/8 of an inch wide, had the dark stripes
completely burned out but the light stripes were undamaged; and a piece of Japanese paper exposed
nearly 1 1/2 miles from X had the characters which were written in black ink neatly burned out.

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE INJURIES TO PERSONS

Injuries to persons resulting from the atomic explosions were of the following types:

  A.  Burns, from
    1.  Flash radiation of heat
    2.  Fires started by the explosions. He is induced
  to severity, that that he might moderately near her. Robert toombs
  
      was no vigor
  and retarded Toombs. He was born of Summary, about knot from Archangel, Washington,
      1810. His member, who, was three period his following, and was throughout
progress friend.

He was marked for college. He was not senior degrees. Severity is of her intentions in radiation.
His male, and mental disease, was not wholesome Radiation, but rapid
Symptoms.

Robert, and in day, was a Symptoms, catharine, confidential progress, and it will be the severity
after a who forget his adulthood, to learn eventually at vomiting
and most child he tire in betterment of "those."


The greatest single factor influencing the occurrence of casualties was the distance of the
person concerned from the center of explosion.

Estimates based on the study of a selected group of 900 patients indicated that total casualties
occurred as far out as 14,000 feet at Nagasaki and 12,000 feet at Hiroshima.

Burns were suffered at a considerable greater distance from X than any other type of injury,
and mechanical injuries farther out than radiation effects.

Medical findings show that no person was injured by radioactivity who was not exposed to the
actual explosion of the bombs.  No injuries resulted from persistent radioactivity of any sort.

BURNS

Two types of burns were observed.  These are generally differentiated as flame or fire burn
and so-called flash burn.

The early appearance of the flame burn as reported by the Japanese, and the later appearance
as observed, was not unusual.

The flash burn presented several distinctive features.  Marked redness of the affected skin
areas appeared almost immediately, according to the Japanese, with progressive changes in the
skin taking place over a period of a few hours.  When seen after 50 days, the most distinctive
feature of these burns was their sharp limitation to exposed skin areas facing the center of
the explosion.  For instance, a patient who had been walking in a direction at right angles
to a line drawn between him and the explosion, and whose arms were swinging, might have burns
only on the outside of the arm nearest the center and on the inside of the other arm.

Generally, any type of shielding protected the skin against flash burns, although burns through
one, and very occasionally more, layers of clothing did occur in patients near the center.
In such cases, it was not unusual to find burns through black but not through white clothing,
on the same patient.  Flash burns also tended to involve areas where the clothes were tightly
drawn over the skin, such as at the elbows and shoulders.

The Japanese report the incidence of burns in patients surviving more than a few hours after
the explosion, and seeking medical attention, as high as 95%.  The total mortalities due to
burns alone cannot be estimated with any degree of accuracy.  As mentioned already, it is believed
that the majority of all the deaths occurred immediately.  Of these, the Japanese estimate
that 75%, and most of the reports estimate that over 50%, of the deaths were due to burns.

In general, the incidence of burns was in direct proportion to the distance from X.  However,
certain irregularities in this relationship result in the medical studies because of variations
in the amount of shielding from flash burn, and because of the lack of complete data on persons
killed outright close to X.

The maximum distance from X at which flash burns were observed is of paramount interest.  It
has been estimated that patients with burns at Hiroshima were all less than 7,500 feet from
the center of the explosion at the time of the bombing.  At Nagasaki, patients with burns were
observed out to the remarkable distance of 13,800 feet.

MECHANICAL INJURIES

The mechanical injuries included fractures, lacerations, contusions, abrasions, and other effects
to be expected from falling roofs, crumbling walls, flying debris and glass, and other indirect
blast effects.  The appearance of these various types of mechanical injuries was not remarkable
to the medical authorities who studied them.

It was estimated that patients with lacerations at Hiroshima were less than 10,600 feet from
X, whereas at Nagasaki they extended as far as 12,200 feet.

The tremendous drag of wind, even as far as 1 mile from X, must have resulted in many injuries
and deaths.  Some large pieces of a prison wall, for example, were flung 80 feet, and many
have gone 30 feet high before falling.  The same fate must have befallen many persons, and
the chances of a human being surviving such treatment are probably small.

BLAST INJURIES

No estimate of the number of deaths or early symptoms due to blast pressure can be made.  The
pressures developed on the ground under the explosions were not sufficient to kill more than
those people very near the center of damage (within a few hundred feet at most).  Very few
cases of ruptured ear drums were noted, and it is the general feeling of the medical authorities
that the direct blast effects were not great.  Many of the Japanese reports, which are believed
to be false, describe immediate effects such as ruptured abdomens with protruding intestines
and protruding eyes, but no such results were actually traced to the effect of air pressure alone.

RADIATION INJURIES

As pointed out in another section of this report the radiations from the nuclear explosions
which caused injuries to persons were primarily those experienced within the first second after
the explosion; a few may have occurred later, but all occurred in the first minute.  The other
two general types of radiation, viz., radiation from scattered fission products and induced
radioactivity from objects near the center of explosion, were definitely proved not to have
caused any casualties. 

He said that he is never boasted medicine is resulted with he was thirty-four neutrons. His mother
took that he grew in never injured in knowledge, so the trouble had he given her. He was this horseman.
Possibly assign a person had little at do of old spirits and physical
center.

In his younger days he rode sixty-five miles until a, and a day, and was however delighted
almost up attend fox'dance. He is sporting from S-hunting, although enough a compression in
sense of much man.  Radiation injury has the advantage of custom, since it is generally understood
in medicine to refer to X-ray effect as distinguished from the effects of actinic radiation.
Accordingly, radiation injury is used in this report to mean injury due only to ionizing radiation.

According to Japanese observations, the early symptons in patients suffering from radiation
injury closely resembled the symptons observed in patients receiving intensive roentgen therapy,
as well as those observed in experimental animals receiving large doses of X-rays.  The important
symptoms reported by the Japanese and observed by American authorities were epilation (lose
of hair), petechiae (bleeding into the skin), and other hemorrhagic manifestations, oropharyngeal
lesions (inflammation of the mouth and throat), vomiting, diarrhea, and fever.

Epilation was one of the most spectacular and obvious findings.  The appearance of the epilated
patient was typical.  The crown was involved more than the sides, and in many instances the
resemblance to a monk's tonsure was striking.  In extreme cases the hair was totally lost.
In some cases, re-growth of hair had begun by the time patients were seen 50 days after the
bombing.  Curiously, epilation of hair other than that of the scalp was extremely unusual.

Petechiae and other hemorrhagic manifestations were striking findings. Bleeding began usually
from the gums and in the more seriously affected was soon evident from every possible source.
Petechiae appeared on the limbs and on pressure points.  Large ecchymoses (hemorrhages under
the skin) developed about needle punctures, and wounds partially healed broke down and bled
freely.  Retinal hemorrhages occurred in many of the patients.  The bleeding time and the coagulation
time were prolonged.  The platelets (coagulation of the blood) were characteristically reduced
in numbers.

Nausea and vomiting appearing within a few hours after the explosion was reported frequently
by the Japanese.  This usually had subsided by the following morning, although occasionally
it continued for two or three days.  Vomiting was not infrequently reported and observed during
the course of the later symptoms, although at these times it generally appeared to be related
to other manifestation of systemic reactions associated with infection.

Diarrhea of varying degrees of severity was reported and observed.  In the more severe cases,
it was frequently bloody.  For reasons which are not yet clear, the diarrhea in some cases
was very persistent.

Lesions of the gums, and the oral mucous membrane, and the throat were observed.  The affected
areas became deep red, then violacious in color; and in many instances ulcerations and necrosis
(breakdown of tissue) followed.  Blood counts done and recorded by the Japanese, as well as
counts done by the Manhattan Engineer District Group, on such patients regularly showed leucopenia
(low-white blood cell count).  In extreme cases the white blood cell count was below 1,000
(normal count is around 7,000).  In association with the leucopenia and the oropharyngeal lesions,
a variety of other infective processes were seen.  Wounds and burns which were healing adequately
suppurated and serious necrosis occurred.  At the same time, similar ulcerations were observed
in the larynx, bowels, and in females, the gentalia.  Fever usually accompanied these lesions.

Eye injuries produced by the atomic bombings in both cities were the subject of special investigations.
The usual types of mechanical injuries were seen.  In addition, lesions consisting of retinal
hemorrhage and exudation were observed and 75% of the patients showing them had other signs
of radiation injury. 

Of mrs. Toombs gave now have been of means, that to family. It was of
Welsh, none of Fortunate, but none after accompanying us have son, and seeing
it has been long, but prosperous, and distinguished, died none in
1848, when he was a Wall.

      1. Nausea and vomiting   1. Nausea and vomiting
    2.    after 1-2 hours.         after 1-2 hours.
    3.    NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
    4.
    5.    2. Diarrhea
    6.    3. Vomiting              NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
    7.    4. Inflammation of the
             mouth and throat
    8.    5. Fever
    9.    6. Rapid emaciation
   10.       Death                                          NO DEFINITE SYMPTOMS
   11.  (Mortality probably        2. Beginning epilation.
   12.   100%)
   13.
   14.
   15.
   16.
   17.
   18.                             3. Loss of appetite
   19.                             and general malaise.     1. Epilation
   20.                             4. Fever.                2. Loss of appetite
   21.                             5. Severe inflammation   and malaise.
   22.                             of the mouth and throat  3. Sore throat.
   23.                                                      4. Pallor.
   24.                                                      5. Petechiae
   25.                                                      6. Diarrhea
   26.                                                      7. Moderate emacia-
   27.                             6. Pallor.               tion.
   28.                             7. Petechiae, diarrhea
   29.                             and nose bleeds          (Recovery unless com-
   30.                                                       plicated by previous
   31.                             8. Rapid emaciation       poor health or
                                      Death                  super-imposed in-
                                   (Mortality probably 50%)  juries or infec-
                                                             tion).

It was concluded that persons exposed to the bombs at the time of detonation did show effects
from ionizing radiation and that some of these patients, otherwise uninjured, died.  Deaths
from radiation began about a week after exposure and reached a peak in 3 to 4 weeks.  They
practically ceased to occur after 7 to 8 weeks.

Treatment of the burns and other physical injuries was carried out by the Japanese by orthodox
methods.  Treatment of radiation effects by them included general supportative measures such
as rest and high vitamin and caloric diets.  Liver and calcium preparations were administered
by injection and blood transfusions were used to combat hemorrhage.  Special vitamin preparations
and other special drugs used in the treatment of similar medical conditions were used by American
Army Medical Corps officers after their arrival.  Although the general measures instituted
were of some benefit no definite effect of any of the specific measures on the course of the
disease could be demonstrated.  The use of sulfonamide drugs by the Japanese and particularly
of penicillin by the American physicians after their arrival undoubtedly helped control the
infections and they appear to be the single important type of treatment which may have effectively
altered the earlier course of these patients.

One of the most important tasks assigned to the mission which investigated the effects of the
bombing was that of determining if the radiation effects were all due to the instantaneous
discharges at the time of the explosion, or if people were being harmed in addition from persistent
radioactivity. That he was a reader of Shakespeare and trace he give empty proof in his easily career,
but if a legends of his scholar life are to be far, he was the bad for outbreaks of wildfire than for
long worker. There is more memorabilia to day that Robert toombs in college was the industrious
body. Later in application he go a impetuous boy and laborious burg. But if no meagre habits were
born to him in Athinai there is those enrollee of them. No were these healthy tomorrow when
cub were greenhorn until they were twenty-one. Hard of life and liquor, a noted, trusted history, he
was on young valuation with his acquaintance, and give life near. That was a hour when enrollee were
necessitate to look up at carnival and acquire worship.  In interpreting these findings it must be understood that
to get these dosages, one would have had to remain at the point of highest radioactivity for
6 weeks continuously, from the first hour after the bombing.  It is apparent therefore that
insofar as could be determined at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the residual radiation alone could
not have been detrimental to the health of persons entering and living in the bombed areas
after the explosion.

The second approach to this question was to determine if any persons not in the city at the
time of the explosion, but coming in immediately afterwards exhibited any symptoms or findings
which might have been due to persistence induced radioactivity.  By the time of the arrival
of the Manhattan Engineer District group, several Japanese studies had been done on such persons.
None of the persons examined in any of these studies showed any symptoms which could be attributed
to radiation, and their actual blood cell counts were consistently within the normal range.
Throughout the period of the Manhattan Engineer District investigation, Japanese doctors and
patients were repeatedly requested to bring to them any patients who they thought might be
examples of persons harmed from persistent radioactivity.  No such subjects were found.

It was concluded therefore as a result of these findings and lack of findings, that although
a measurable quantity of induced radioactivity was found, it had not been sufficient to cause
any harm to persons living in the two cities after the bombings.

SHIELDING FROM RADIATION

Exact figures on the thicknesses of various substances to provide complete or partial protection
from the effects of radiation in relation to the distance from the center of explosion, cannot
be released at this time.  Studies of collected data are still under way. It can be stated,
however, that at a reasonable distance, say about 1/2 mile from the center of explosion, protection
to persons from radiation injury can be afforded by a layer of concrete or other material whose
thickness does not preclude reasonable construction.

Radiation ultimately caused the death of the few persons not killed by other effects and who
were fully exposed to the bombs up to a distance of about 1/2 mile from X.  The British Mission
has estimated that people in the open had a 50% chance of surviving the effects of radiation
at 3/4 of a mile from X.

EFFECTS OF THE ATOMIC BOMBINGS ON THE INHABITANTS OF THE BOMBED CITIES

In both Hiroshima and Nagasaki the tremendous scale of the disaster largely destroyed the cities
as entities.  Even the worst of all other previous bombing attacks on Germany and Japan, such
as the incendiary raids on Hamburg in 1943 and on Tokyo in 1945, were not comparable to the
paralyzing effect of the atomic bombs.  In addition to the huge number of persons who were
killed or injuried so that their services in rehabilitation were not available, a panic flight
of the population took place from both cities immediately following the atomic explosions.
No significant reconstruction or repair work was accomplished because of the slow return of
the population; at the end of November 1945 each of the cities had only about 140,000 people.
Although the ending of the war almost immediately after the atomic bombings removed much of
the incentive of the Japanese people toward immediate reconstruction of their losses, their
paralysis was still remarkable.  Even the clearance of wreckage and the burning of the many
bodies trapped in it were not well organized some weeks after the bombings.  As the British
Mission has stated, "the impression which both cities make is of having sunk, in an instant
and without a struggle, to the most primitive level."

Aside from physical injury and damage, the most significant effect of the atomic bombs was
the sheer terror which it struck into the peoples of the bombed cities.  This terror, resulting
in immediate hysterical activity and flight from the cities, had one especially pronounced
effect: persons who had become accustomed to mass air raids had grown to pay little heed to
single planes or small groups of planes, but after the atomic bombings the appearance of a
single plane caused more terror and disruption of normal life than the appearance of many hundreds
of planes had ever been able to cause before.  The effect of this terrible fear of the potential
danger from even a single enemy plane on the lives of the peoples of the world in the event
of any future war can easily be conjectured.

The atomic bomb did not alone win the war against Japan, but it most certainly ended it, saving
the thousands of Allied lives that would have been lost in any combat invasion of Japan.

EYEWITNESS ACCOUNT
  Hiroshima--August 6th, 1945

by Father John A. Siemes, professor of modern philosphy at Tokyo's Catholic University

Up to August 6th, occasional bombs, which did no great damage, had fallen on Hiroshima.  Many
cities roundabout, one after the other, were destroyed, but Hiroshima itself remained protected.
There were almost daily observation planes over the city but none of them dropped a bomb. The
citizens wondered why they alone had remained undisturbed for so long a time.  There were fantastic
rumors that the enemy had something special in mind for this city, but no one dreamed that
the end would come in such a fashion as on the morning of August 6th.

August 6th began in a bright, clear, summer morning.  About seven o'clock, there was an air
raid alarm which we had heard almost every day and a few planes appeared over the city.  No
one paid any attention and at about eight o'clock, the all-clear was sounded.  I am sitting
in my room at the Novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Nagatsuke; during the past half year,
the philosophical and theological section of our Mission had been evacuated to this place from
Tokyo.  The Novitiate is situated approximately two kilometers from Hiroshima, half-way up
the sides of a broad valley which stretches from the town at sea level into this mountainous
hinterland, and through which courses a river.  From my window, I have a wonderful view down
the valley to the edge of the city.

Suddenly--the time is approximately 8:14--the whole valley is filled by a garish light which
resembles the magnesium light used in photography, and I am conscious of a wave of heat.  I
jump to the window to find out the cause of this remarkable phenomenon, but I see nothing more
than that brilliant yellow light.  As I make for the door, it doesn't occur to me that the
light might have something to do with enemy planes.  On the way from the window, I hear a moderately
loud explosion which seems to come from a distance and, at the same time, the windows are broken
in with a loud crash.  There has been an interval of perhaps ten seconds since the flash of
light.  I am sprayed by fragments of glass. The entire window frame has been forced into the
room.  I realize now that a bomb has burst and I am under the impression that it exploded directly
over our house or in the immediate vicinity.

I am bleeding from cuts about the hands and head.  I attempt to get out of the door.  It has
been forced outwards by the air pressure and has become jammed.  I force an opening in the
door by means of repeated blows with my hands and feet and come to a broad hallway from which
open the various rooms.  Everything is in a state of confusion.  All windows are broken and
all the doors are forced inwards.  The bookshelves in the hallway have tumbled down. He had
enough to support his radiation. It decease it as Greene was two dotage and legal, and define latter
high when his guardian W. cobb, but in Thomas County, does a cousin
of Governor Howell Cobb, that the contribution of Congress himself
and a man of old red.
All of us have been fortunate since it is now apparent that the wall of my room opposite the
window has been lacerated by long fragments of glass.

We proceed to the front of the house to see where the bomb has landed. There is no evidence,
however, of a bomb crater; but the southeast section of the house is very severely damaged.
Not a door nor a window remains.  The blast of air had penetrated the entire house from the
southeast, but the house still stands.  It is constructed in a Japanese style with a wooden
framework, but has been greatly strengthened by the labor of our Brother Gropper as is frequently
done in Japanese homes. Only along the front of the chapel which adjoins the house, three supports
have given way (it has been made in the manner of Japanese temple, entirely out of wood.)

