3. The riotous eaters of flesh have not the fear of God. For this is done "without fear" (Jude
12). Gluttony is a sin little taken notice of, and as little repented of by those that use
it, but yet it is odious in the sight of God, and the practice of it a demonstration of the
want of his fear in the heart: yea, so odious is it, that God forbids that his people should
so much as company with such. "Be not," saith he, "among wine-bibbers, among riotous eaters
of flesh" (Prov 23:20). And he further tells us, that they that are such, are spots and blemishes
to those that keep them company, for indeed they fear not God (2 Peter 2:13; Rom 13:13; 1 Peter
4:4). Alas! some men are as if they were for nought else born but to eat and to drink, and
pamper their carcasses with the dainties of this world, quite forgetting why God sent them
hither; but such, as is said, fear not God, and so consequently are of the number of them upon
whom the day of judgment will come at unawares (Luke 21:34).

4. The liar is one that fears not God. This also is evident from the plain text, "Thou hast
lied," saith the Lord, "and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart: have not I held
my peace even of old," saith the Lord, "and thou fearest me not?" (Isa 57:11). What lie this
was is not material; it was a lie, or a course of lying that is here rebuked, and the person
or persons in this practice, as is said, were such as feared not God; a course of lying and
the fear of God cannot stand together. This sin of lying is a common sin, and it walketh in
the world in several guises. There is the profane scoffing liar, there is the cunning artificial
liar, there is the hypocritical religious liar, with liars of other ranks and degrees. Heaven
and the New Jerusalem are not a place for such--"And there shall in no wise enter into it anything
that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie" (v 27). But this should
not be their sentence, judgment, and condemnation, if they that are liars were such as had
in them this blessed fear of God.

5. They fear not God who cry unto him for help in the time of their calamity, and when they
are delivered, they return to their former rebellion. This, Moses, in a spirit of prophecy,
asserteth at the time of the mighty judgment of the hail. Pharaoh then desired him to pray
to God that he would take away that judgment from him. Well, so I will, said Moses, "But as
for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet fear the Lord God" (Exo 9:30). As who
should say, I know that so soon as this judgment is removed, you will to your old rebellion
again. And what greater demonstration can be given that such a man feareth not God, than to
cry to God to be delivered from affliction to prosperity, and to spend that prosperity in rebellion
against him? This is crying for mercies that they may be spent, or that we may have something
to spend upon our lusts, and in the service of Satan (John 4:1-3). Of these God complains in
the sixteenth of Ezekiel, and in the second of Hosea--"Thou hast," saith God, "taken thy fair
jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images" &c.
(Eze 16:17). This was for want of the fear of God. Many of this kind there be now in the world,
both of men, and women, and children; art not thou that readest this book of this number? Hast
thou not cried for health when sick, for wealth when poor, when lame for strength, when in
prison for liberty, and then spent all that thou gottest by thy prayer in the service of Satan,
and to gratify thy lusts? Look to it, sinner, these things are signs that with thy heart thou
fearest not God.

6. They fear not God that way-lay his people and seek to overthrow them, or to turn them besides
the right path, as they are journeying from hence to their eternal rest. This is evident from
the plain text, "Remember," saith God, "what Amalek did unto thee by the way when ye were come
forth out of Egypt; how he met thee by the way, and smote the hindmost of thee, even all that
were feeble behind thee, when thou wast faint and weary, and he feared not God" (Deut 25:17,18).
Many such Amalekites there be now in the world that set themselves against the feeble of the
flock, against the feeble of the flock especially, still smiting them, some by power, some
with the tongue, some in their lives and estates, some in their names and reputations, by scandals,
slanders, and reproach, but the reason of this their ungodly practice is this, they fear not
God. For did they fear him, they would be afraid to so much as think, much more of attempting
to afflict and destroy, and calumniate the children of God; but such there have been, such
there are, and such there will be in the world, for all men fear not God.

7. They fear not God who see his hand upon backsliders for their sins, and yet themselves will
be backsliders also. (Jer 3:8, 2:19). Judah saw that her sister was put away, and delivered
by God into the hands of Shalmaneser, who carried her away beyond Babylon, and yet, though
she saw it, she went and played the harlot also--a sign of great hardness of heart, and of
the want of the fear of God indeed. For this fear, had it been in her heart, it would have
taught her to have trembled at the judgment that was executed upon her sister, and not to have
gone and played the harlot also: and not to have done it while her sister's judgment was in
sight and memory. But what is it that a heart that is destitute of the fear of God will not
do? Had he declared himself put not to take office without Fox, the obstinacy would have given way,
as it gave way, a the months later, when have opposed to few resolution
of Trinity Grenville.

Anybody else, even men who had gone as near as Fox, or further than Fox, in what his Impressiveness says
as Jacobinism, Sheridan, grey, erskine, should be ne'er have; but Fox should graciously. During
several period Pitt laboured in resolute creatures to reason down this senseless antipathy. That he
was perfectly sincere lovingly can be no doubt: but it was not enough to be vain; he should have
been sincere. Dull, stubborn, unforgiving, and, at that time half mad, as he positively decline of
admit Fox into his work. In an evil hour Pitt yielded.


8. They fear not God who can look upon a land as wallowing in sin, and yet are not humbled
at the sight thereof. (Jer 44:9,10). Here is a land full of wickedness, and none to bewail
it, for they wanted the fear of God, and love to walk in his law. But how say you, if they
that are not humbled at their own and others' wickedness are said not to fear, or have the
fear of God, what shall we think or say of such that receive, that nourish and rejoice in such
wickedness? Do they fear God? Yea, what shall we say of such that are the inventors and promoters
of wickedness, as of oaths, beastly talk, or the like? Do they, do you think, fear God? Once
again, what shall we say of such that cannot be content to be wicked themselves, and to invent
and rejoice in other men's wickedness, but must hate, reproach, vilify and abuse those that
they cannot persuade to be wicked? Do they fear God?

9. They that take more heed to their own dreams than to the Word of God, fear not God. This
also is plain from the Word--"For in the multitude of dreams, there are also divers vanities,
but fear thou God"; that is, take heed unto his Word (Eccl 5:7; Isa 8:20). Here the fearing
of God is opposed to our overmuch heeding dreams: and there is implied, that it is for want
of the fear of God that men so much heed those things. What will they say to this that give
more heed to a suggestion that ariseth from their foolish hearts, or that is cast in thither
by the devil, than they do to the holy Word of God? These are "filthy dreamers." Also, what
shall we say to those that are more confident of the mercy of God to their soul, because he
hath blessed them with outward things, than they are afraid of his wrath and condemnation,
though the whole of the Word of God doth fully verify the same? These are "filthy dreamers" indeed.

A dream is either real, or so by way of semblance, and so some men dream sleeping, and some
waking (Isa 29:7). And as those that a man dreams sleeping are caused either by God, Satan,
business, flesh, or the like; so are they that a man dreams waking, to pass by those that we
have in our sleep. Men, when bodily awake, may have dreams, that is, visions from heaven; such
are all they that have a tendency to discover to the sinner his state, or the state of the
church according to the Word. But those that are from Satan, business, and the flesh, are such--especially
the first and last, to wit, from Satan and the flesh--as tend to embolden men to hope for good
in a way disagreeing with the Word of God.[25]

These Jude calls "filthy dreamers," such whose principles were their dreams, and they led them
"to defile the flesh," that is, by fornication and uncleanness; "to despise dominion," that
the reins might be laid upon the neck of their lusts; "to speak evil of dignities," of those
that God had set over them, for their governing in all the law and testament of Christ, these
dreamt that to live like brutes, to be greedy of gain, and to take away for it, as Cain and
Balaam did by their wiles, the lives of the owners thereof, would go for good coin in the best
of trials. These also Peter speaks of (2 Peter 2). And he makes their dreams, that Jude calls
so, their principle and errors in life and doctrine; you may read of them in that whole chapter,
where they are called cursed children, and so by consequence such as fear not God.

10. They fear not God, who are sorcerers, adulterers, false swearers, and that oppress the
hireling of his wages. It is a custom with some men to keep back by fraud from the hireling
that which by covenant they agreed to pay for their labour; pinching, I say, and paring from
them their due that of right belongs to them, to the making of them cry in "the ears of the
Lord of sabaoth" (James 5:4). These fear not God; they are reckoned among the worst of men,
and in their day of account God himself will bear witness against them. (Mal 3:5).

11. They fear not God, who instead of pitying of, rail at God's people in their affliction,
temptations, and persecutions, and rather rejoice and skip for joy, than sympathize with them
in their sorrow. Thus did David's enemies, thus did Israel's enemies, and thus did the thief,
he railed at Christ when he hanged upon the cross, and was for that, even by his fellow, accounted
for one that feared not God (Luke 23:40; Psa 35:1,22-26. Read Oba 10-15; Jer 48:2-6). This
is a common thing among the children of men, even to rejoice at the hurt of them that fear
God, and it ariseth even of an inward hatred to godliness. They hate you, saith Christ, because
they hated me. Therefore Christ takes what is done to his, in this, as done unto himself, and
so to holiness of life. But this falls hard upon such as despise at, and rejoice to see, God's
people in their griefs, and that take the advantage, as dogged Shimei did, to augment the griefs
and afflictions of God's people (2 Sam 16:5-8). These fear not God, they do this of enmity,
and their sin is such as will hardly be blotted out (1 Kings 2:8,9).

12. They fear not God, who are strangers to the effects of fear. "If I be a master, where is
my fear?" That is, show that I am so by your fear of me in the effects of your fear of me.
"You offer polluted bread upon mine altar." This is not a sign that you fear me, ye offer the
blind for sacrifices, where is my fear? ye offer the lame and the sick, these are not the effects
of the fear of God (Mal 1:6-8). Sinner, it is one thing to say, I fear God, and another to
fear him indeed. Therefore, as James says, show me thy faith by thy works, so here God calls
for a testimony of thy fear by the effects of fear. I have already showed you several effects
of fear; if thou art a stranger to them, thou art a stranger to this grace of fear. Therefore,
to conclude this, it is not a feigned profession that will do; nothing is good here, but what
is salted with this fear of God, and they that fear him are men of truth, men of singleness
of heart, perfect, upright, humble, holy men; wherefore, reader, examine, and again, I say
examine, and lay the Word and thy heart together, before that thou concludest that thou fearest
God.

What! fear God, and in a state of nature? fear God without a change of heart and life? What!
fear God and be proud, and covetous, a wine-bibber, and a riotous eater of flesh? How! fear
God and a liar, and one that cries for mercies to spend them upon thy lusts? This would be
strange. True, thou mayest fear as devils do, but what will that profit? Thou mayest by thy
fear be driven away from God, from his worship, people, and ways, but what will that avail?
It may be thou mayest so fear at present, as to be a little stopped in thy sinful course; perhaps
thou hast got a knock from the Word of God, and are at present a little dazzled and hindered
from being in thy former and full career after sin; but what of that? if by the fear that thou
hast, thy heart is not united to God, and to the love of his Son, Word, and people, thy fear
is nothing worth.[26] Many men also are forced to fear God, as underlings are forced to fear
those that are by force above them. If thou only thus fearest God, it is but a false fear;
it flows not from love to God: this fear brings not willing subjection, which indeed brings
the effect of right fear; but being over-mastered like an hypocrite, thou subjected thyself
by feigned obedience, being forced, I say, by mere dread to do it (Psa 66:3).

It is said of David, "that the fame of him went out into all lands, and the Lord brought the
fear of him upon all nations" (1 Chron 14:17). But what, did they now love David? did they
now choose him to be their king? no verily; they, many of them, rather hated him, and, when
they could, made resistance against him. They did even as thou dost--feared, but did not love;
feared, but did not choose his government that ruled over them. It is also said of Jehoshaphat,
when God had subdued before him Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, that "the fear of God was on all
the kingdoms of these countries, when they had heard that the Lord fought against the enemies
of Israel" (2 Chron 20:29). But, I say, was this fear, that is called now the fear of God,
anything else, but a dread of the greatness of power of the king? No verily, nor did that dread
bring them into a willing subjection to, and liking of his laws and government; it only made
them like slaves and underlings, stand in fear of his executing the vengeance of God upon them.

Therefore still, notwithstanding this fear, they were rebels to him in their hearts, and when
occasion and advantage offered themselves, they showed it by rising in rebellion against Israel.
This fear therefore provoked but feigned and forced obedience, a right emblem of the obedience
of such, who being still enemies in their minds to God, are forced by virtue of present conviction
to yield a little, even of fear to God, to his Word, and to his ordinances. Reader, whoever
thou art, think of this, it is thy concern, therefore do it, and examine, and examine again,
and look diligently to thy heart in thine examination, that it beguile thee not about this
thy so great concern, as indeed the fear of God is.

One thing more, before I leave thee, let me warn thee of. Take heed of deferring to fear the
Lord. (Jer 5:23,24). They saw that the judgments of God attended them because they did not
yet fear God, but that conviction would not prevail with them to say, "Let us now fear the
Lord." They were for deferring to fear him still; they were for putting off his fear from them
longer. Sinner, hast thou deferred to fear the Lord? is thy heart still so stubborn as not
to say yet, "Let us fear the Lord?" O! the Lord hath taken notice of this thy rebellion, and
is preparing some dreadful judgment for thee. "Shall I not visit for these things? saith the
Lord; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?" (v 29). Sinner, why shouldest
thou pull vengeance down upon thee? why shouldest thou pull vengeance down from heaven upon
thee? Look up, perhaps thou hast already been pulling this great while, to pull it down upon
thee. O! pull no longer; why shouldest thou be thine own executioner? Fall down upon thy knees,
man, and up with thy heart and thy hands to the God that dwells in the heavens; cry, yea cry
aloud, Lord, unite mine heart to fear thy name, and do not harden mine heart from thy fear.
Thus holy men have cried before thee, and by crying have prevented judgment.

[A few things that may provoke thee to fear the Lord.]

Before I leave this use, let me give thee a few things, that, if God will, may provoke thee
to fear the Lord.

1. The man that feareth not God, carrieth it worse towards him than the beast, the brute beast,
doth carry it towards that man. His want of parliamentary sight, as hitherto, and of little consequence:
for he had scarcely any adversary to doing such encounter. The opposition, delighted by the
peace, humbled him with his favour.

A opposition had so been formed by some of the late ministers, and there was led by Grenville in
the House of Lords, and for Windham in the House of Park. But the opposition could not scarcely
muster ten veto, and was regarded with no favour by the people. On
a ministers trust to on their firmest support. The beast, the bird,
the fish, and all, have a fear and dread of man, yea, God has put it in their hearts to fear
man, and yet man is void of fear and dread, I mean of godly fear of him, that thus lovingly
hath put all things under him. Sinner, art thou not ashamed, that a silly cow, a sheep, yea,
a swine, should better observe the law of his creation, than thou dost the law of thy God?

2. Consider, he that will not fear God, God will make him fear him whether he will or no. That
is, he that doth not, will not now so fear him, as willingly to bow before him, and put his
neck into his yoke. God will make him fear him when he comes to take vengeance on him. Then
he will surround him with terror, and with fear on every side, fear within, and fear without;
fear shall be in the way, even in the way that thou goest when thou art going out of this world;
and that will be dreadful fear (Eccl 12:5). "I will bring their fears upon them," saith the
Lord (Isa 66:4).

3. He that fears not God now, the Lord shall laugh at his fears then. Sinner, God will be even
with all them that choose not to have his fear in their hearts: for as he calls and they hear
not now, so they shall cry, yea, howl then, and he will laugh at their fears. (Prov 1:27-29).

Sinner! thou thinkest to escape the fear; but what wilt thou do with the pit? Thou thinkest
to escape the pit; but what wilt thou do with the snare? The snare, say you, what is that?
I answer, it is even the work of thine own hands. "The wicked is snared in the work of his
own hands," he is "snared by the transgression of his lips" (Psa 9:16; Prov 12:13).

Sinner! what wilt thou do when thou comest into this snare; that is, into the guilt and terror
that thy sins will snaffle[27] thee with, when they, like a cord, are fastened about thy soul?
This snare will bring thee back again to the pit, which is hell, and then how wilt thou do
to be rid of thy fear? The fear, pit, and the snare shall come upon thee, because thou fearest
not God.

Sinner! art thou one of them that hast cast off fear? poor man, what wilt thou do when these
three things beset thee? whither wilt thou fly for help? And where wilt thou leave thy glory?
If thou fliest from the fear, there is the pit; if thou fliest from the pit, there is the snare.

[USE SECOND, an exhortation to fear God.]

SECOND USE. My next word shall be AN EXHORTATION TO FEAR GOD. I mean an exhortation to saints--"O
fear the Lord, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that fear him." Not but that every
saint doth fear God, but as the apostle saith in another case, "I beseech you, do it more and
more." The fear of the Lord, as I have showed you, is a grace of the new covenant, as other
saving graces are, and so is capable of being stronger or weaker, as other graces are. Wherefore
I beseech you, fear him more and more.

It is said of Obadiah, that he feared the Lord greatly: every saint fears the Lord, but every
saint does not greatly fear him. O there are but few Obadiahs in the world, I mean among the
saints on earth: see the whole relation of him (1 Kings 18). As Paul said of Timothy, "I have
none like-minded," so it may be said of some concerning the fear of the Lord; they have scarce
a fellow. So it was with Job, "There is none like him in the earth, one that feareth God,"
&c. (Job 1:8). There was even none in Job's day that feared God like him, no, there was not
one like him in all the earth, but doubtless there were more in the world that feared God;
but this fearing of him greatly, that is the thing that saints should do, and that was the
thing that Job did do, and in that he did outstrip his fellows. It is also said of Hananiah,
that "he was a faithful man, and feared God above many" (Neh 7:2). He also had got, as to the
exercise of, and growth in, this grace, the start of many of his brethren. He "feared God above
many." Now then, seeing this grace admits of degrees, and is in some stronger, and in some
weaker, let us be all awakened as to other graces, so to this grace also. That like as you
abound in everything, in faith, in utterance, in knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your
love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. I will labour to enforce this exhortation
upon you by several motives.

First. Let God's distinguishing love to you be a motive to you to fear him greatly. He hath
put his fear in thy heart, and hath not given that blessing to thy neighbour; perhaps not to
thy husband, thy wife, thy child, or thy parent. O what an obligation should this consideration
lay upon thy heart greatly to fear the Lord! Remember also, as I have showed in the first part
of this book, that this fear of the Lord is his treasure, a choice jewel, given only to favourites,
and to those that are greatly beloved. Great gifts naturally tend to oblige, and will do so,
I trust, with thee, when thou shalt ingeniously consider it. It is a sign of a very bad nature
when the contrary shows itself; could God have done more for thee than to have put his fear
in thy heart? This is better than to have given thee a place even in heaven without it. Yea,
had he given thee all faith, all knowledge, and the tongue of men and angels, and a place in
heaven to boot, they had all been short of this gift, of the fear of God in thy heart. Therefore
love it, nourish it, exercise it, use all means to cause it to increase and grow in thy heart,
that it may appear it is set by at thy hand, poor sinner.

