* See Arnot's Criminal Trials, 4to ed. p. 235.

The forbearance of the magistrate was, in these instances, wise, certainly, and just; for what
good impression could be made on the public mind by punishment, when the memory of the offence
was obliterated, and all that was remembered was the recent inoffensive, or perhaps exemplary
conduct of the offender?

Sir George Staunton might, therefore, tread the scene of his former audacious exploits, free
from the apprehension of the law, or even of discovery or suspicion. But with what feelings
his heart that day throbbed, must be left to those of the reader to imagine. It was an object
of no common interest which had brought him to encounter so many painful remembrances.

In consequence of Jeanie's letter to Lady Staunton, transmitting the confession, he had visited
the town of Carlisle, and had found Archdeacon Fleming still alive, by whom that confession
had been received. This reverend gentleman, whose character stood deservedly very high, he
so far admitted into his confidence, as to own himself the father of the unfortunate infant
which had been spirited away by Madge Wildfire, representing the intrigue as a matter of juvenile
extravagance on his own part, for which he was now anxious to atone, by tracing, if possible,
what had become of the child. After some recollection of the circumstances, the clergyman was
able to call to memory, that the unhappy woman had written a letter to George Staunton, Esq.,
younger, Rectory, Willingham, by Grantham; that he had forwarded it to the address accordingly,
and that it had been returned, with a note from the Reverend Mr. Staunton, Rector of Willingham,
saying, he knew no such person as him to whom the letter was addressed. As this had happened
just at the time when George had, for the last time, absconded from his father's house to carry
off Effie, he was at no loss to account for the cause of the resentment, under the influence
of which his father had disowned him. Instead of answering, she came in person. As Emma wanted to know whether
you come out a bit, he gave her the answer:

Yes! But she wants to see the bill! "

The next morning Emma went to Lheureux and asked him for a bill to
some peculiar thousand francs.

Otherwise would be the whole story out and also the sale of the property. The latter had the
dealer operated so well that they only became known much later.

Although the prices were written down very low, could not the old woman Bovary fail to see the
outrageous spending.

"One would be even without the carpet? What had to be because armchairs reupholstered? In my
time there was no house more than a few armchair, his grandfather's chair! The young people
had no need. So it was at least on my mother, and that was a honest woman! I can assure you!
There are, after all, not everyone rich.

And Waste ruined everyone! I would be ashamed to death if I wanted
to pamper like you!

And I am an old woman who had really a little bit of care needed
... Just look at this luxury of time!

Loud tomfoolery! Silk lining, the meters to two Franken! Where to get very nice lining for four
pennies, already for dreie, the its purpose perfectly! "

Emma lay on the couch and said, with forced calm:

"I think it's all
right!"

But the old woman was preaching on and on and predicted they would both of them in the poorhouse
. End By the way, Karl was the main culprit.

It was truly fortunate that he promised her have to destroy the unholy
power of attorney ...

"What?"

Emma interrupted her speech.

"Yes! He gave me his word! "

Emma opened a window and called her husband, the unfortunate man had to admit that his had wrung the
mother's honor. As Emma walked out of the room, came very soon and handed her mother a princess
with the gesture of a great document.

"Thank you," said the old woman and put the document into the oven.

Emma burst into a rough, sharp, persistent pool. She had received a nervous shock.

"Oh my God," exclaimed Karl. "You see, mother, it was not right of
you!

You you are not allowed to fix that! "

She shrugged her shoulders. That was all "merely antics!"

As Karl rejected for the first time in his life against them and took
Emma so emphatically that the old woman said she would leave.

In fact, she did the next day. When Charles they wanted to talk again on the threshold to stay,
she replied:

"No, no! You love her more than me, and this is quite in order! While it is your disadvantage.
You'll see ... Let thee go well! I will you not at once - So to speak - fix "!

No less as a poor sinner, he stood in front of Emma, ​​who accused him bitterly that he had no Trust
more to it. He had to ask for the first time, before they condescended to a new general power to
accept. He accompanied them to Guillaumin, they should issue.

"Quite understandable," said the notary. "A man of science should
be the everyday things not be distracted.

"

Karl felt by those in his father's wisdom Tone raised up again. They disguised his weakness
with the flattering excuse that he was higher Things busy.

On Thursday, out in her room at the court of Boulogne, in Leo's arms she was beyond measure omitted.
She laughed, cried, sang, danced, had himself brought up sorbet and smoked Cigarettes. So
effusively to him seemed, he found it delightful and charming.

He had no idea that it was fermenting within her and that she was upside of this design in the
maelstrom of life fell. She was irritable, insatiable, voluptuous become. Collected Head,
she went to Leo through the streets of the city walk, without the
slightest fear that they could come to talk.

She said at least. Secretly, of course, sometimes they shook at the thought of Rudolf could
meet her once.

When she divorced from him for ever was, she felt it still in its
thrall.

One evening she did not return after Yonville. Charles was beside himself with anxiety, and little
Berta, "not without its" Mama wanted to go to bed sobbing, heart-rending.

Justin sent was received at the post road, and even Homais left his pharmacy.

As the clock struck eleven, it was Karl no longer.

He hitched up his car, jumped up the box cut, fired his horse, and
arrived about two clock in the morning in the "Red Cross".

Emma was not there.

He thought maybe she could have seen the Adjunct, but where he lived?

Fortunately, he remembered the address of the notary, where Leo worked
in the office.

He hurried away.

It began to dawn. He recognized the coat of arms above the door and knocked. Without him was
opened, someone who receives the requested information, not without
the nightly Rioters to swear.

The house in which lived the schoolmaster possessed, not a door knocker or a bell or a Porter.
Karl banged his fist against a shutter. A policeman passed. Karl
got scared and left.

"I'm a fool," he said to himself.

"Probably have Lormeaux 'it last night to Kept her table!

"

The family lived Lormeaux no longer in Rouen.

"Maybe she is with Mrs. Dübreuil.

Which is perhaps ill ... Oh no, Mrs. Dübreuil is already dead for
six years ... But where then let Emma be?

"

Suddenly he remembered something.

He asked for a cafe in the address book and quickly sought after the name of Miss Lempereur.
She lived Rue de la Renelle Maroquiniers the number 74

When he turned onto this road, Emma appeared on the other end. He rushed at her and fell on her
neck.

"What is up for yesterday held back here," he said.

"I was sick."

"What ails you, then?

... Na and where ... How? "

She ran her hand over her brow and replied:

"When Miss Lempereur."

"I'm me at once. I was on my way to it. "

"The effort you can save you now. It is assumed by the way already. active in the future up but
not again so on! You can imagine that I did not feel free, if I know that up so the slightest
delay brings out of balance! "

That was a kind of permission, they gave themselves in the future
with peace and quiet on the train to hew, as they say.

In fact, she is now the most widely used it. Once it felt like to see Leo, she went on some
pretext to Rouen. Because of this they are not expected on those days, they sought him in his
office.

The first time was a great pleasure for him, but gradually he concealed the truth not. His head was
these disorders is anything but agreeable.

"Oh, come with us," she said.

And he left his job because of them.

She expressed the wish that he should always dress in black and a so-called Fly leave so that he looked
like Louis XIII in the famous picture.

He had to show her his apartment, which she found quite poor. He was ashamed, but they stayed
not sure and advised him to buy curtains, as they had any. When he admitted that very expensive,
she said, laughing:

"Oh, you hang on your few pennies!"

Every time Leo had her report exactly what he had experienced since the last rendezvous. Once
she asked him for a poem, a love poem in her honor. But the rhymes were him not, and he eventually
wrote a sonnet from from an old almanac.

He did this not out of vanity. He knew no other desire than to please
her.

He was in all things in their view, and always had the same taste
as them.

With a Words they exchanged their roles gradually. Leo was the feminine part in this love
affairs. They knew how to caress and kiss in a way that he had the feeling that they suck
his soul from the body.

Put it, hidden in the cores of their being a peculiar, Corruption
almost incorporeal in Emma, ​​a mysterious inheritance.

Chapter Six

When Leo came to Yonville to visit Emma, ​​he ate often at the pharmacist
for lunch.

As a courtesy, he invited him to visit him in once in Rouen.

"Gladly," was Homais replied. "I have to relax once anyway, otherwise I still grates altogether
a. We want to go to the theater, a little pubs and a few stupid things ! Let go "

"But, man," admonished Mrs. Homais worried.

The indefinable dangers he ran to meet, frightened them in advance.

"What does that matter here? Have I ruined my health is not enough in the ongoing Exhalations of
drugs?

Yes, yes, so are the women!

Buries it in the sciences, they are jealous, and if one is sometimes in the most harmless way,
a little recover, then they're not quite songwriter. But let wirs be good! Expect to me! In
the very near future I dip in Rouen: and here we go together a box !

Open "

Previously, Homais would care not to use such an expression, but for some Time, he enjoyed playing
immensely in playing the jovial big cities. Like his Neighbor, Mrs. Bovary, he asked the adjunct
to the inquisitive to the Parisian manners and bad habits from. He even began his speech in
the jargon of Paris to take in order the Philistines to impress.

One Thursday morning he met Emma, ​​to her surprise in the kitchen of the Golden Lion in Travel
suit, that is, in an old coat gemummt in which they had never seen him before, a travel bag in one
hand, a foot muff in the other. He had his plan not Tell people, for fear that customers would
accept his absence offense.

The idea of ​​the places to see again, where he had spent his youth,
encouraged him clearly on because during the whole trip, he talked
incessantly.

No sooner had arrived in Rouen, he rushed out of the car to visit
to Leo.

The adjunct helped no reluctance: Homais dragged him into the 'Grand
Café' to Normandy, where he heads uncovered, proud as a Prince entered.

He held it for most provinzlerhaft namely, in a public place the Hat
to decrease.

Emma waited three quarters of an hour to Leo. Finally, she hurried to his office. In all sorts
of conjectures, and they accused him of indifference and himself
the weakness was, they spent the afternoon, the forehead pressed against
the glass, Boulogne in court.

At two clock Leo and Homais were still at table. The great hall of the restaurant emptied themselves.
They sat on the stove, which had the shape of a towering palm tribe,
whose inside gilt compartments spread under the white blanket.

Beside them, in the bright sunlight, behind glass walls, a small fountain bubbled over a marble
basin. At its edge crouched between watercress and asparagus three sleepy lobster; by, lay quail,
piled into a heap.

The pharmacist did, as it were a quality. Although delighted him more than the splendor the excellent
meal, so did the Burgundians but its effect. And as the Rum Omelet was applied, as he revealed immoral
theories "about the women. Most active him a "smart" woman, and nothing would go on an elegant
gown in a finely furnished Space. As to the physical stimuli, as was not much meat "without."

Leo
looked desperately at the clock. The pharmacist drank, ate and smacked on.

"You must feel pretty lonely here, incidentally, in Rouen," he said
suddenly.

"But after all, your sweetheart lives not too far, "Da Leo blushed, he added." Well, admit to this!
Do you deny that you are in Yonville ... "

The young man stammered something unintelligible.

"... in the house Bovary poussieren someone ... "

"But whom?"

"Well, the service girl!"

It was serious. But Leo's vanity was stronger than caution. Without thinking to He disagreed. He
loves only brunette women.

"Now we do not" wrong, "said the pharmacist. "They have more fire!"

Homais began to whisper and told his friends the symptoms that can recognize which one, whether a
woman had a fire. He got himself on an ethnographic digression. The Germans were enthusiastic,
sensual, French women, Italian women passionately.

"And the black women," asked the schoolmaster.

"It's an acquired taste! Waiter! Two cups of coffee!

"

"Shall we go?" Leo asked impatiently.

"Yes!"

But first he wanted to speak to the owner of the restaurant and expressing
his satisfaction.

Furthermore, protecting the young man a business development. He was finally alone be.

"I accompany you, of course," said Homais.

On the way he constantly told by his wife, his children, their prosperity,
from his pharmacy, from dilapidated state in which he accepted, and
how they in the amount had brought.

Both before the court, Leo de Boulogne summarily by him, ran up the
stairs and found his mistress in great excitement.

At the mention of the pharmacist she became Anger. Leo tried to calm
down by all sorts of reasonable grounds.

It was not really been his fault. You know Homais yet. How did they believe can only that he would rather
with him instead of with her is? But she did not hear anything and made as if to leave. He
held her back, sank to her knees, she embraced with both arms and saw her with a touching look at them
with lust and submission.

She stood erect before him. With large flashing eyes she looked at him seriously, almost threatening.
But then blurred this phrase in tears.

Her reddened eyelids closed, she left him her hands, which he put
on his lips.

Then appeared the servant. A gentleman wished him to speak strongly.

"You're coming back," asked Emma.

"Certainly!"

"But when?"

"Buy!"

It was the pharmacist.

"A fine trick, not" he smiled when he saw Leo.

"I wanted you to reduce your conversation. It was quite obvious you uncomfortable. So! Now we go
to my friend Bridoux, approve a Bittern! "

Leo insisted that he had in his office.

But the pharmacist laughed at him and made his Jokes about the jurisprudence.

his "Let but the Aktenkram Aktenkram! The hell, why not?

Do not be Frog! Come, let's go to Bridoux!

His terrier must see it! Is too funny! " And as the Adjunct still reluctant, he continued: "Well,
I accompany you at least!

Get in your shop reading a newspaper or browse through some old browse. "

Leo was stunned by Emma's reluctance to talk with the pharmacist,
and perhaps by the aftermath of the ample breakfast.

He stood there undecided, while Homais repeatedly urged him:

"Come
with!

We're going to Bridoux! He lives a hundred steps from here! Rue Malpalu!

"

This call came as a suggestion.

Out of cowardice or folly or of that remarkable Impulse, the man moved sometimes to acts that
go against his real will, Leo was the cause Bridoux. They found him in the small courtyard of
his house, where he spent three Boys supervised, which turned the great wheel of a soda water
making machine. After a warm welcome was Homais his colleagues advice.
Then they drank the Bittern. Leo was a hundred times about to recommend,
but Homais held him again and again saying:

"Right away! DC! I'll
go with yes! We will now once in the 'Lighthouse of Rouen'! The editor
say hello. I make you acquainted with him, with Mr. Thomassin. "

Nevertheless,
Leo was finally happening and ran again in the Boulogne yard. Emma
was not gone. applied in the highest degree, she was gone. Now she
hated Leo. The rendezvous to fail, which they seized on as an insult!
Now she was looking for yet other reasons, to break with him. He was
incapable of a higher recovery, weak, trivial, feminine, this stingy
and faint-hearted.

Then it was quiet, they realized that they made
him worse than he was. But the downward tug of a loved one always
leaves some traces. You should not touch an idol: the Gilding remains
a sticking to the fingers.

From then on they talked more often about
things that had nothing to do with their love. In the letters that
Emma wrote to him, there was talk of flowers, verses, the moon and
the stars, in a word of all the primitive props, which establishes
a mattgewordne passion to obtain the consent bill. Again and again
she hoped that the next being together the old happiness, but every
time after she admitted that she felt nothing like this had. This
disappointment is still changed to New Hope. Emma always came back
to Leo full of desire and sensual excitement. She threw off his clothes
and tore down the corsets the cords around her hips as suggested hissing
snakes. ran with bare feet them to the door and convinced himself
that it was locked. took off with a hasty movement it then the shirt
- and flows through pale, silent, serious, and by showers, threw it
in his arms.

But on her forehead bead insulated from cold sweat,
moaning on their lips, in their delusional Eyes, in its wild embrace
lived something sinister, hostile, sad. Leo felt it. It had crept
in to separate them.

Without that, he ventured to ask after that,
he also came to the realization that the beloved all must have experience
testing of pleasure and of suffering ever on himself. What it was
delighted one day, which now filled him with horror.

Added to this,
he rebelled against the daily increasing rape of his person. He growled
her if her ever new victories. Often, he forced himself to stay cold,
but when he then saw coming towards him, but he was weak again, as
an absinthe drinker, to the green Gift seduced again and again.

However,
she turned to the arts of love: from exquisite pleasures at the table
to the Refinement of dress and languishing tenderness. She brought
from her garden Roses, which she wore on the chest and threw him in
the face. She was worried about his health and gave him good advice
on how he should live. Superstitious, she gave him an amulet with
a Madonnenbildchen. Like a respectable mother asked about his friends
and acquaintances.

"Let them! Do not go out! Remember me alone and
stay true to me! "

She would monitor or supervise him until done.
Sometimes it was the latter to mind. It drove in the vicinity of Boulogne
Court regularly loafer around the this would have probably taken over.
But their pride stopped them.

"Let him go behind me! Then he just
is not worth anything! What does it matter? I do not take him! "

One
day she went away from him time than usual. When she alone hinschlenderte
Boulevard, she noticed the wall of their monastery. As they sat on
a shaded bench under the Elms. How peacefully they had lived back
then! She got the virgin longing for ideas of the love she had then
imagined from the books ...

Then she recalled her honeymoon ... to
the Vicomte, with whom she danced waltz had ... to ride through the
woods ... the tenor Lagardy ... All this went on again its over ...
And suddenly you even Leo was so far like all others.

"But I love
him," she whispered.

She was still not happy, and never had been!
Why her life was never enough something a whole? Why was always the
same decay in all things that she put on her heart?

If it was somewhere
on earth a being, strong and beautiful and brave, enthusiastic and
also love to know, with a poet's heart and an angel's body, an enthusiast
and Singer why she had not met him by chance? Oh, because that is
an impossibility! Because It is futile to look for him! Because all
lies and deceit! Every smile hides always only the yawn of boredom,
every joy a curse, every pleasure the disgust of his inevitable to
follow! The hottest kisses leave the people nothing but the unquenchable
desire for the pleasure of the gods!

Bronze sounds rang through the
air. The Abbey clock struck four times. Four Clock! It seemed Emma,
​​if she were already an eternity to their bank. Infinite passion
can be in One-minute huddle, like a crowd in a small space ...

Emma
lived only for himself, monetary affairs, they no longer cared. But
One day, a man of shabby appearance, saying, Lord Vinçard send in
Rouen him here. He pulled out the needles with which he is a side
pocket of his long green Rock had closed, she was stuck in the cuff
and gave her a polite Paper. It was a change to seven hundred francs,
which she had issued. Lheureux had him against his promise given to
Vinçard.

She sent Felicie to the dealer. Agreements He could not
back saying he did. The unknown had waited while standing behind his
thick blond eyelids prying eyes addressed to the house and yard. Now
he asked simple:

"What should I align Vinçard Lord?"

"Tell him only,"
Emma replied, "... I had no money! Maybe in a week ... He should wait
... Yes, yes, in eight days! "

The man went without reply. But the
next day she received a change of action. On the stamped certificate
of service on several occasions she stared, the words "Hareng, bailiffs
contrary in Büchy. " In addition she was frightened so much that she
ran posthaste to Lheureux.

He stood in his shop and just tied to
a package.

"Your servant," he greeted them. "I am at your disposal
at once!"

Otherwise he would not interfere in its employment, in
him about thirteen Girls helped. It was a little overgrown and knew
it from the dealer also replaced the Shop girl and the cook.

When
he finished, he introduced Mrs. Bovary up in the first floor. He went
to his shuffling wooden shoes on the steps ahead. Above, he opened
the door to a narrow room, in which a large desk was a paper full
of books of account, by a iron, were deposited with a padlock bar
provided.
Sir George Staunton instantly wrote back an answer, and rewarding the messenger liberally,
desired him not to sleep till he placed it in his agent's hands.

At length they embarked in the boat, which had waited for them some time. During their voyage,
which was slow, for they were obliged to row the whole way, and often against the tide, Sir
George Staunton's inquiries ran chiefly on the subject of the Highland banditti who had infested
that country since the year 1745. Butler informed him that many of them were not native Highlanders,
but gipsies, tinkers, and other men of desperate fortunes, who had taken advantage of the confusion
introduced by the civil war, the general discontent of the mountaineers, and the unsettled
state of police, to practise their plundering trade with more audacity. Sir George next inquired
into their lives, their habits, whether the violences which they committed were not sometimes
atoned for by acts of generosity, and whether they did not possess the virtues as well as the
vices of savage tribes?

Butler answered, that certainly they did sometimes show sparks of generosity, of which even
the worst class of malefactors are seldom utterly divested; but that their evil propensities
were certain and regular principles of action, while any occasional burst of virtuous feeling
was only a transient impulse not to be reckoned upon, and excited probably by some singular
and unusual concatenation of circumstances. In discussing these inquiries, which Sir George
pursued with an apparent eagerness that rather surprised Butler, the latter chanced to mention
the name of Donacha dhu na Dunaigh, with which the reader is already acquainted. Sir George
caught the sound up eagerly, and as if it conveyed particular interest to his ear. He made
the most minute inquiries concerning the man whom he mentioned, the number of his gang, and
even the appearance of those who belonged to it. Upon these points Butler could give little
answer. The man had a name among the lower class, but his exploits were considerably exaggerated;
he had always one or two fellows with him, but never aspired to the command of above three
or four. In short, he knew little about him, and the small acquaintance he had had by no means
inclined him to desire more.

"Nevertheless, I should like to see him some of these days."

"That would be a dangerous meeting, Sir George, unless you mean we are to see him receive his
deserts from the law, and then it were a melancholy one."

"Use every man according to his deserts, Mr. Butler, and who shall escape whipping? But I am
talking riddles to you. I will explain them more fully to you when I have spoken over the subject
with Lady Staunton.--Pull away, my lads," he added, addressing himself to the rowers; "the
clouds threaten us with a storm."

In fact, the dead and heavy closeness of the air, the huge piles of clouds which assembled
in the western horizon, and glowed like a furnace under the influence of the setting sun--that
awful stillness in which nature seems to expect the thunder-burst, as a condemned soldier waits
for the platoon fire which is to stretch him on the earth, all betokened a speedy storm. Large
broad drops fell from time to time, and induced the gentlemen to assume the boat-cloaks; but
the rain again ceased, and the oppressive heat, so unusual in Scotland in the end of May, inclined
them to throw them aside. "There is something solemn in this delay of the storm," said Sir
George; "it seems as if it suspended its peal till it solemnised some important event in the
world below."

"Alas!" replied Butler, "what are we that the laws of nature should correspond in their march
with our ephemeral deeds or sufferings! The clouds will burst when surcharged with the electric
fluid, whether a goat is falling at that instant from the cliffs of Arran, or a hero expiring
on the field of battle he has won."

"The mind delights to deem it otherwise," said Sir George Staunton; "and to dwell on the fate
of humanity as on that which is the prime central movement of the mighty machine. We love not
to think that we shall mix with the ages that have gone before us, as these broad black raindrops
mingle with the waste of waters, making a trifling and momentary eddy, and are then lost for ever."

"For ever!--we are not--we cannot be lost for ever," said Butler, looking upward; "death is
to us change, not consummation; and the commencement of a new existence, corresponding in character
to the deeds which we have done in the body."

While they agitated these grave subjects, to which the solemnity of the approaching storm naturally
led them, their voyage threatened to be more tedious than they expected, for gusts of wind,
which rose and fell with sudden impetuosity, swept the bosom of the firth, and impeded the
efforts of the rowers. They had now only to double a small headland, in order to get to the
proper landing-place in the mouth of the little river; but in the state of the weather, and
the boat being heavy, this was like to be a work of time, and in the meanwhile they must necessarily
be exposed to the storm.

"Could we not land on this side of the headland," asked Sir George, "and so gain some shelter?"

Butler knew of no landing-place, at least none affording a convenient or even practicable passage
up the rocks which surrounded the shore.

"Think again," said Sir George Staunton; "the storm will soon be violent."

"Hout, ay," said one of the boatmen, "there's the Caird's Cove; but we dinna tell the minister
about it, and I am no sure if I can steer the boat to it, the bay is sae fa' o' shoals and
sunk rocks."

"Try," said Sir George, "and I will give you half-a-guinea."

The old fellow took the helm, and observed, "That, if they could get in, there was a steep
path up from the beach, and half-an-hour's walk from thence to the Manse."

"Are you sure you know the way?" said Butler to the old man.

"I maybe kend it a wee better fifteen years syne, when Dandie Wilson was in the firth wi' his
clean-ganging lugger. I mind Dandie had a wild young Englisher wi' him, that they ca'd"

"If you chatter so much," said Sir George Staunton, "you will have the boat on the Grindstone--bring
that white rock in a line with the steeple."

"By G--," said the veteran, staring, "I think your honour kens the bay as weel as me.--Your
honour's nose has been on the Grindstone ere now, I'm thinking." It would take
his kind offer to.

The next day at twelve clock stopped Rudolf with two horses in front of the house of the doctor. One
Women wore a saddle and a red suede front straps. He had high riding boots from the finest soft
leather on. He assumed that Emma had certainly never seen such, and in fact, she was delighted
with his appearance, as she saw him in his long dark brown Velvet
coat and white breeches at the door saw.

She had waited for him and was ready.

Justin stole from the pharmacy. He had to see it. Also, the pharmacist
would not suffer in his shop.

He gave all sorts of good advice Rudolf.

"It's so easy a mishap," he said.

She gently riding! If animals are religious? "

Emma heard a noise about himself. It was Felicie, with the hand against a window pane drumming
to prepare the small Berta a joke. The child threw the mother kisses to. The rider waved his wand.

"Have
fun," cried Homais. "Yes, quite carefully! Very careful! "

He looked at the long ride away and waved in greeting to his newspaper.

Once Emma's horse soft ground under the felt caught it from himself to gallop on. Since Rudolf
also blew up in his horse. Now and then they exchanged a word. The chin a little recovered, the
left hand taken up the reins after the withers to hold, so gave them the most canter.

It went up the hill, always at a gallop. Above the horses suddenly
parried. Emma Long blue veil fluttering on.

It was one of the first
days of October. Fog lay over the fields. In long narrow swaths to
the horizon and could see the hills only in outlines. Now and then
demolished the fog flew apart on how to shreds and scattered. Then
we saw the Gaps in the distance the roofs of Yonville in the sunshine,
the gardens at the bank, the farms and hedges and the church tower. 

One Sunday, the child came into the world early against six clock,
when the sun came up.

"It's a girl," declared Karl.

Emma was back in bed and was unconscious.

Already, presented Mrs Homais and Lion landlady to hug the woman.
The pharmacist called her a few discreet preliminary Congratulations
to the door column. He wanted to explore the new world citizen and
found they probably get.

While recovering Emma pondered what name
should have the baby. She knew, whatever
force or constraint he might put upon his feelings in public, that she herself must be doomed
to see them display themselves in full vehemence in secret,--consume his health, destroy his
temper, and render him at once an object of dread and compassion. She hesitated.

"As it were a French leave," she said, adding she gave him her hand.
This she forced a smile.

Leo felt her fingers into his. He felt as
if her whole being flows into his skin.