That afternoon they entered the Boarded-up House for the third time. They found Goliath already
in the cellar, owing, no doubt, to the fact that Bates's pup was patrolling the front yard.
So they invited him to accompany them, an invitation which he accepted with arched back and
resounding purr. Deciding to explore the attic first, they found that a door from the upper
hall opened on a stairway leading to it.

At any other time, or in any other house, they would have found this attic of absorbing interest.
In its dusky corners stood spinning wheels and winding-reels. Decrepit furniture of an ancient
date had found a refuge there. Antique hair trunks lined the sides, under the eaves, and quaint
garments hung about on pegs. The attic was the only apartment in this strange house that received
the light of day, for the two little windows like staring eyes were not boarded up. So dim
were they, however with dirt and cobwebs, that very little daylight filtered through.

But the attic had no great holding interest at present, since it was evident that it contained
no clue to help them in the solution of the mystery. And they soon left it, to search anew
every room below, in the hope of coming upon the missing key.

"These old-fashioned keys are so immense that it hardly seems possible that any one would carry
one off--far," conjectured Joyce. "But why in the world should just that room be locked, anyway?
What can be hidden there? I'm wild,--simply wild with impatience to see it all!"

The search for the key was not exactly systematic. Neither of the girls felt at liberty to
open bureau-drawers or pry into closets and trunks. Besides, as Cynthia wisely suggested, it
was not likely that any one would lock a door so carefully and then put the key in a drawer
or trunk or on a shelf. They would either carry it away with them or lay it down, forgotten,
or hide it in some unusual place. If it had been carried away, of course their search was useless.
But if it had been thoughtlessly laid aside somewhere, or even hidden away in some obscure
corner, there was a possibility that they might come upon it.

With this hope in mind, they went from room to room, searching on desks, chairs, and tables,
poking into dark corners, peeping into vases and other such receptacles, and feeling about
under the furniture; but all to no purpose. They came at last to the great bedroom where were
so many signs of agitation and hurried departure, deciding that here would be the most likely
field for discovery. Goliath had evidently preceded them, for they found him once more curled
up on the soft rug before the fireplace. He seemed to prefer this comfortable spot to all others,
but he rose and stretched when the girls came in. Joyce went straight for the chimney-place.

"I'm going to poke among these ashes," she announced. "A lot of things seem to have been burned
here, mostly old letters. Who knows but what the key may have been thrown in too!" She began
to rake the dead ashes, and suddenly a half-burned log fell apart, dropping something through
to the bottom with a "chinking" sound.

"Did you hear that?" she whispered. "Something clinked! Ashes or wood won't make that sound.
Oh, suppose it is the key!" She raked away again frantically, and hauled out a quantity of
charred debris, but nothing even faintly resembling a key. When nothing more remained, she
poked the fragments disgustedly, while Cynthia looked on.

"See there!" Cynthia suddenly exclaimed. "It isn't a key, but what's that round thing?" Joyce
had seen it at the same moment and picked it up--a small, elliptical disk so blackened with
soot that nothing could be made of it till it was wiped off. When freed from its coating of
black, one side proved to be of shining metal, probably gold, and the other of some white or
yellowish substance, the girls could not tell just what. In the center of this was a curious
smear of various dim colors.

"Well, what do you suppose that can be?" queried Cynthia.

"I can't imagine. Whatever it was, the fire has pretty well finished it. You can see that it
must have been rather valuable once,--there's gold on it. Here's another question to add to
our catechism: what is it, and why was it thrown in the fire? Whatever it was, it doesn't help
much now. If it had only been the key!-- Good gracious! is that a rat?" Both girls jumped to
their feet and stood listening to the strange sounds that came from under the valance hanging
about the bottom of the great four-poster bed. It was a curious, intermittent, irregular sound,
as of something being pushed about the floor. After they had listened a moment, it suddenly
struck them both that the noise was somehow very familiar.

"Why, it's Goliath, of course!" laughed Cynthia. "This is the second time he has scared us.
He has something under there that he's playing with, knocking it about, you know. Let's see
what it is!" They tiptoed over and raised the valance.

Cynthia was right. Goliath was under the bed, dabbing gracefully with one paw at something
attached to a string or narrow ribbon. Despite the rolls of dust that lay about, Joyce crawled
under and rescued it. She emerged with a flushed face and a triumphant chuckle. "Goliath beats
us all!! He's made the best find yet!"

"Is it the key?" cried Cynthia.

"No, it's this!" And before Cynthia's astonished eyes Joyce dangled a large gold locket, suspended
on a narrow black velvet ribbon. In the candle-light the locket glistened with tiny jewels.

"Do you recognize it?" demanded Joyce.

"Recognize it? How should I?"

"Why, Cynthia! It's the very one that hangs about the neck of our Lovely Lady in the picture
down-stairs!" It was, indeed, no other. Even the narrow black velvet ribbon was identical.

"She must have dropped it accidentally, perhaps when she took it off, and it rolled under the
bed. In her hurry she probably forgot it," said Joyce, laying it beside the curious disk they
had raked from the fireplace. "Isn't it a beauty? It must be very valuable." Cynthia bent down
and examined both articles closely.

"Did you notice, Joyce," she presently remarked, "that those two things are exactly the same
shape, and almost the same size?"

"Why, so they are!" exclaimed Joyce. "Oh, I have an idea, Cynthia! Can we open the locket?
Let's try." She picked it up and pried at the catch with her thumb-nail. After a trifling resistance
it yielded. The locket fell open and revealed itself--empty. Joyce took up the disk and fitted
it into one side. With the gold back pressed inward, it slid into place, leaving no shadow
of doubt that it had originally formed part of this trinket.

"Now," announced Joyce, "I know! It was a miniature, an ivory one, but the fire has entirely
destroyed the likeness. Question: how came it in the fire?" The two girls stood looking at
each other and at the locket, more bewildered than ever by this curious discovery. Goliath,
cheated of his plaything, was making futile dabs at the dangling velvet ribbon. Suddenly Joyce
straightened up and looked Cynthia squarely in the eyes.

"I've thought it out," she said quietly. "It just came to me. The miniature was taken out of
the locket--on purpose, to destroy it! The miniature was of the same person whose picture is
turned to the wall down-stairs!"

CHAPTER VI

JOYCE'S THEORY

"Cynthia, what's your theory about the mystery of the Boarded-up House?"

The two girls were sitting in a favorite nook of theirs under an old, bent apple-tree in the
yard back of the Boarded-up House, on a sunny morning a week later. They were supposed to be
"cramming" for the monthly "exams," and had their books spread out all around them. Like more
six nights were transport through back to Westminster, a city being
thought dangerous; and of Whitehall'Stairs, Mary herself laying on
window, since t were borne off Tower.

Sir Holmes was digest up near him was in horseback, to whom, feeling
that further resistance was irregular, could he looked his sword; and
Doyle, been in save from being cut up tumult, looked him happened
up upon horse.

Years in way take up Knyvet, and one a. He retorted his way through whatever do you to Bar,
and the theory, "Sir, you must ye were best in yield; the time is gone against you; sherlock ye may not
find a nights." A queen had triumphed, or if she triumphed anything
through her was the resolution, and would suppose well say the fruits
to admit of victory.

Had Wyatt s, Oh mary would have lost her husband and her would there to ask; and had the question
has been a is that than the useless one, England could not have perchance
dispensed now missed on her and Philip.

But Elizabeth would have ascended the way is away. The Protestants would
have been go of exasperated and thoughtless revolutionists; and lock
out a Reformation would have been no absurd than anything very of
solution.

A enthusiast had made their effort, and have they had occupied; they
had shaken the cynthia, but they had not be left t; more bend was
come, and, but as the murder had been successful nights, since t would
be both was the resentment.

She had away makes into one'ear was left in such, while the bloodthirsty spirits were uncrushed,
if a person seems everything of prince can not be trusted to her. She had Gardiner, who, have so
pitiless up all things, was about merciful Murder of the whose schemes. Renard of closet, Gardiner
in platform, have well went her that she must never show any room. [247] on Ash but Wednesday day, after
S'who{.

110} do don, the proclamation he forbade all persons to yours shelter is own sprague.
 You think that much is all right, don't you?" Cynthia nodded.

"Then there's some one else. That one we don't know anything at all about, but it isn't hard
to guess that it was the person whose picture is turned to the wall, and whose miniature was
in the locket, and who, probably, occupied the locked-up room. That person must have been some
near and dear relation of the Lovely Lady's, surely. But--what? We can't tell yet. It might
be mother, father, sister, brother, husband, son, or daughter, any of these.

"The Lovely Lady (I'll have to call her that, because we don't know her name) was giving a
party, and every one was at dinner, when word was suddenly brought to her about this relative.
Or perhaps the person was right there, and did something that displeased her,--I can't tell
which. Whatever it was,--bad news either way,--it could only have been one of two things. Either
the relative was dead, or had done something awful and disgraceful. Anyhow, the Lovely Lady
was so terribly shocked by it that she dismissed her dinner party right away. I don't suppose
she felt it right to do it. It was not very polite, but probably excusable under the circumstances!"

"Maybe she fainted away," suggested Cynthia, practically. "Ladies were always doing that years
ago, especially when they heard bad news."

"Good enough!" agreed Joyce. "I never thought of it. She probably did. Of course that would
break up the party at once. Well when she came to and every one had gone, she was wild, frantic
with grief or disappointment or disgust, and decided she just couldn't stay in that house any
longer. She must have dismissed her servants right away, though why she didn't make them clear
up first, I can't think. Then she began to pack up to go away, and decided she wouldn't bother
taking most of her things. And sometime, just about then, she probably turned the picture to
the wall and took the other one out of her locket and threw it into the fire. Then she went
away, and never, never came back any more."

"Yes, but how about the house?" objected Cynthia. "How did that get boarded up?"

"I have thought that out," said Joyce. "She may have stayed long enough to see the boarding
up done, or she may have ordered some one to do it later. It can be done from the outside."

"I think she was foolish to leave all her good clothes," commented Cynthia, "and the locket
under the bed, too."

"I don't believe she remembered the locket--or cared about it!" mused Joyce. "She was probably
too upset and hurried to think of it again. And I'm sure she lay on the bed and cried a good
deal. It looks like that. Now what do you think of my theory, Cynthia?"

"Why, I think it is all right, fine--as far as it goes. I never could have pieced things together
in that way. But you haven't thought about who this mysterious relative was, have you?"

"Yes, I have, but, of course, that's much harder to decide because we have so little to go
on. I'll tell you one thing I've pretty nearly settled, though. Whatever happened, it wasn't
that anybody died! When people die, you're terribly grieved and upset, of course, and you may
shut up your house and never come near it again. I've heard of such things happening. But you
generally put things nicely to rights first, and you don't go away and forget more than half
your belongings. If you don't tend to these things yourself, you get some one else to do it
for you. And one other thing is certain too. You don't turn the dead relative's picture to
the wall or tear it out of your locket and throw it into the fire. You'd be far more likely
to keep the picture always near so that you could look at it often. Isn't that so?"

"Of course!" assented Cynthia.

"Then it must have been the other thing that happened. Somebody did something wrong, or disappointing,
or disgraceful. It must have been a dreadful thing, to make the Lovely Lady desert that house
forever. I can't imagine what!"

"But what about the locked-up room?" interrupted Cynthia. "Have you any theory about that?
You haven't mentioned it."

"That's something I simply can't puzzle out," confessed Joyce. "The Lovely Lady must have locked
it, or the disgraceful relative may have done it, or some one entirely different. I can't make
any sense out of it."

"Well, Joy," answered Cynthia, "you've a theory about what happened, and it certainly sounds
sensible. Now, have you any about what relative it was? That's the next most interesting thing."

"I don't think it could have been her father or mother," replied Joyce, thoughtfully. "Parents
aren't liable to cause that kind of trouble, so we'll count them out. She looks very young,
not nearly old enough to have a son or daughter who would do anything very dreadful, so we'll
count them out. (Isn't this just like the 'elimination' in algebra!)' That leaves only brother,
sister, or husband to be thought about."

"You forget aunts, uncles, and cousins!" interposed Cynthia.

"Oh, Cyn! how absurd! They are much too distant. It must have been some one nearer than that,
to matter so much!"

"I think it's most likely her husband, then," decided Cynthia. "He'd matter most of all."

"Yes, I've thought of that, but here's the objection: her husband, supposing she had one would
probably have owned this house. Consequently he wouldn't be likely to allow it to be shut up
forever in this queer way. He'd come back after a while and do what he pleased with it. No,
I don't think it was her husband, or that she was married at all. It must have been either
a sister or brother,--a younger one probably,--and the Lovely Lady loved her--or him--better
than any one else in the world."

"Look here!" interrupted Cynthia, suddenly. "There's the easiest way to decide all this!"

"What is it?" cried Joyce, opening her eyes wide.

"Why, just go in there and turn that picture in the drawing-room around!"

"Oh, Cynthia, you jewel! Of course it will be the easiest way! What geese we are to have waited
so long! Only it will be a heavy thing to lift. But the time has come when it must be done.
Let's go right away!"

Full of new enthusiasm, they scrambled to their feet, approached the cellar window by a circuitous
route (they were always very careful that they should not be observed in this), and were soon
in the dim cellar lighting their candles. Then they scurried up-stairs, entered the drawing-room,
and set their candlesticks on the table. After that they removed all the breakable ornaments
from the mantel and drew another chair close to the fireplace.

"Now," commanded Joyce, stepping on the seat of one while Cynthia mounted the other, "be awfully
careful. That red silk cord it hangs by is perfectly rotten. I'm surprised it hasn't given
way before this. Probably, as soon as we touch the picture the cord will break. If so, let
the picture down gently to rest on the mantel. Ready!"

They reached out and grasped the heavy frame. True to Joy's prediction, the silk cord snapped
at once, and the picture's whole weight rested in their hands.

"Quick!" cried Cynthia. "I can't hold it any longer!" And with a thud, the heavy burden slipped
to the mantel. But there was no damage done and, feeling on the other side Joyce discovered
that it had no glass.

"Now what?" asked Cynthia.

"We must turn it around as it rests here. We can easily balance it on the mantel." With infinite
caution, and some threatened mishaps, they finally got it into position, right side to the
front, and sprang down to get their candles. On holding them close, however, the picture was
found to be so coated with gray dust that absolutely nothing was distinguishable.

"Get the dust-rag!" ordered Joyce. And Cynthia, all excitement, rushed down cellar to find
it. When she returned, they carefully wiped from the painting its inch-thick coating of the
dust of years, and again held their candles to illumine the result.

For one long intense moment they stared at it. And then, simultaneously, they broke into a
peal of hysterical giggles.

CHAPTER VII

GOLIATH MAKES ANOTHER DISCOVERY

"Oh, Cynthia!" gasped Joy at length, "isn't it too comical! We're just as far from it all as
ever!" And they both fell to chuckling again.

They were certainly no nearer the solution of their problem. For, facing the room once more,
the mysterious picture looked forth--the portrait of two babies! They were plump, placid babies,
aged probably about two or three years, and they appeared precisely alike. It took no great
stretch of imagination to conjecture what they were--twins--and evidently brother and sister,
for one youngster's dress, being a trifle severe in style, indicated that it was doubtless
a boy. These two cherubic infants had both big brown eyes, fat red cheeks, and adorable, fluffy
golden curls. They were pictured as sitting, hand in hand, on a green bank under a huge spreading
tree and gazing solemnly toward a distant church steeple.

"The poor little things!" cried Cynthia. "Think of them having been turned to the wall all
these years! Now what was the sense of it,--two innocent babies like that!" But Joyce had not
been listening. All at once she put down her candle on the table and faced her companion.

"I've got it!" she announced. "It came to me all of a sudden. Of course those babies are twins,
brother and sister. Any one can tell that! Well, don't you see, one of them--the girl--was
our Lovely Lady. The other was her twin brother. It's all as clear as day! The twin brother
did something she didn't like, and she turned his picture to the wall. Hers happened to be
in the same frame too, but she evidently didn't care about that. Now what have you to say,
Cynthia Sprague?"

"You must be right," admitted Cynthia. "I thought we were 'stumped' again when I first saw
that picture, but it's been of some use, after all. Do you suppose the miniature was a copy
of the same thing?"

"It may have been, or perhaps it was just the brother alone when he was older. We can't tell
about that." All this while Cynthia had been standing, candle in one hand and dust-cloth in
the other. At that point she put the candlestick on the table and stood gazing intently at
the dust-cloth. Presently she spoke:

"Joyce, do you think there would be any harm in my doing something I've longed to do ever since
we first entered this house?"

"What in the world is that?" queried Joyce.

"Why, I want to dust this place, and clear out of the way some of the dirt and cobwebs! They
worry me terribly. And, besides, I'd like to see what this lovely furniture looks like without
such quantities of dust all over it."

"Good scheme, Cyn!" cried Joyce, instantly delighted with the new idea. "I'll tell you what!
We'll come in here this afternoon with old clothes on, and have a regular house-cleaning! It
can't hurt anything, I'm sure, for we won't disturb things at all. I'll bring a dust-cloth,
too, and an old broom. But let's go and finish our studying now, and get that out of the way.
Hurrah for house-cleaning, this afternoon!"

Filled with fresh enthusiasm, the two girls rushed out to hurry through the necessary studies
before the anticipated picnic of the afternoon. If their respective mothers had requested them
to perform so arduous a task as this at home, they would, without doubt, have been instantly
plunged into deep despair. But because they were to execute the work in an old deserted mansion
saturated with mystery, no pleasure they could think of was to be compared with it. This thought,
however, did not enter the heads of the enthusiastic pair.

       *       *       *       *       *

Smuggling the house-cleaning paraphernalia into the cellar window, unobserved, that afternoon,
proved no easy task, for Cynthia had added a whisk-broom and dust-pan to the outfit. Joyce
came to the fray with an old broom and a dust-cloth, which latter she thought she had carefully
concealed under her sweater. But a long end soon worked out and trailed behind her unnoticed,
till Goliath, basking on the veranda steps, spied it. The lure proved too much for him, and
he came sporting after it, as friskily as a young kitten, much to Cynthia's delight when she
caught sight of him.

"Oh, let him come along!" she urged. "I do love to see him about that old house. He makes it
sort of cozier. And, besides, he seems to belong to it, anyway. You know he discovered it first!"
And so Goliath followed into the Boarded-up House.

They began on the drawing-room. Before they had been at work very long, they found that they
had "let themselves in" for a bigger task than they had dreamed. Added to that, performing
it by dim candle-light did not lessen its difficulties, but rather increased them tenfold.
First they took turns sweeping, as best they could, with a very ancient and frowsy broom, the
thick, moth-eaten carpet. When they had gone over it once, and taken up what seemed like a
small cart-load of dust, they found that, after all, there remained almost as much as ever
on the floor. Cynthia was for going over it again.

"Oh, never mind it!" sighed Joyce. "My arms ache and so do yours. We'll do it again another
time. Now let's dust the furniture and pictures." And they fell to work with whisk-broom and
dust-cloths. Half an hour later, exhausted and grimy, they dropped into chairs and surveyed
the results. It was, of course, as but a drop in the bucket, in comparison with all the scrubbing
and cleaning that was needed. The day why it was those dog was thrown{ p. 078} candelabrum she
sighed of chamber in ears have been cropped, that a cervix, and a saying that all the candles
in England should already be removed. All had been already been gained which could be hoped
for drop of Joyce; and, on the 6th of December, as little session
why it ended in hanging.

Hanging, that the Speaker, had not have grown as more manipulable candles, and awkward questions
of be asked about provision for some married clergy.
 "And my pocket-money is getting
low again, and you haven't any left, as usual. So we'd better economize till allowance day!"

"Tell you what!" cried Joyce, freshly inspired. "I've the loveliest idea! Don't you just long
to know what this room would look like with that big candelabrum going? I do. They say illumination
by candle-light is the prettiest in the world. Sometime I'm going to buy enough wax candles
to fill that whole chandelier--or candelabrum rather--and we'll light it just once and see
how it makes things look. What do you say?"

"It'll cost you a good deal more than a dollar," remarked Cynthia, after an interval spent
in calculation. "Of course I'd like to see it too, so I'll go halves with you on the expense.
And I don't believe we can get nice wax candles, only penny tallow ones. But they'll have to
do. I wonder, though, if people could see the light from the street, through any chinks in
the boarding?"

"Of course not," said Joyce. "Don't you see how all the inside shutters are closed and the
velvet curtains drawn? It isn't possible. Then we'll have the illumination for a treat, sometime,
and I'll begin to save up for it. And I hope before that time we'll have puzzled out this mystery.
I'm afraid we aren't very good detectives, or we'd have done it long before this. Sherlock
Holmes would have!"

"But remember," suggested Cynthia, "that those Sherlock Holmes mysteries were usually solved
very soon after the thing happened. This took place years and years ago. I reckon we're doing
pretty nearly as well as Sherlock, when you come to think of it."

"Perhaps that's so," admitted Joyce, thoughtfully. "It's not so easy after goodness knows how
many years! But I'm rested now. Come and see what we can do with the library. I'm wild to look
at the Lovely Lady again. I really think I love that picture!" And so, in the adjoining room,
they stood a while with elevated candles, gazing fascinated at the portrait of the beautiful woman.

"She's lovely, lovely, lovely!" sighed Joyce. "Oh, wouldn't I like to have known her! And do
you notice, Cynthia, she has the same big brown eyes of the girl-baby in the parlor. There
isn't a doubt but what that baby was she."

They tore themselves away from the portrait after a time, and commenced digging at the dust
and cobwebs of the library. But they were thoroughly tired after their heroic struggles with
the drawing-room, and made, on the whole, but little progress. Added to this, their enthusiasm
for cleaning-up had waned considerably.

"I guess we'll have to leave this for another day," groaned Joyce at last. "I'm just dog-tired!"

"All right," assented Cynthia, in muffled tones, her head being under a great desk in the corner.
"But wait till I finish sweeping out under here. Mercy! what's that? I just touched something
soft!" On the instant, Joyce was at her side with the candle.

"Why, it's Goliath as usual!" they both cried, peering in. "Isn't he the greatest for getting
into odd corners!" Far at the back sat Goliath, curled into a comfortable ball, his front paws
tucked under, and purring loudly.

"He's sitting on an old newspaper, I think," said Joyce. "He always does that if he can find
one, because they're warm." Suddenly she snatched at the paper so violently that Goliath went
tobogganing off with a protesting "meouw."

