So I put em away with a sy, and had jest bout maid up my mind that the other ballers wuldn't
be treeted to my distingushed presense, wen I remembered the box of cloes wot our dinin room
gal, wot was purty fly, left, wen she loped with the buggler, & all ma's silver spoons. It
was ony the wurk of a minnit to pry open the lid, and a dazzlin array of butyful & fancy does
met my vishun. Then I shed all my things and commensed the arduus wurk of dressin. I say arduus,
cos it was parrylisin, discom-fertin, & puzzlin. I useter wonder y ma tuk so long to dress,
wen she was goin eny-where, and pa was swarin and hurryin her up. Now, I wunder no longer cos
I kno how tis myself, and after my own xperiense in pins, buttins, strings, laces, garters,
and things, I shall ever look upon wimmin as martirs. The dress was jest short enuf to show
my blu striped silk stockins, and bout two inshes of mbroidery. The stock-ins was a littel
too big, so I had to fill em up with hankercheefs. The waste jest but-tened up on me, at the
waste line, but it tuk half a dozen piller cases, and a cuppel of sheets, to stuff the upper
part of the front. Proof dide is ntirely one with the strongest arguments that me can be used. A
sure that he is given value for his money, so it matters not whether
he is buying a graphite and run i disband an car.

And next to subterrainon quality is the proof of cos price. Then ma she
fixed up my hare, and maid a masque for me, and sed I was a true-ter-life Parisien greassette.

Soon as I got in the ball-room, every maskerline carackter got mashed on me, and warnted me
for a partner. Every one I dansed with treeted me to ice creme and carrymels, and I guess,
I ete supper bout seventeen times, in fact I ete so much, that a terrebel strane round my waste,
warned that if I indulged my appytite eny more, a feerful catastrofy, was lierbel to take place.

Bout two o'clock I begun to get tired, & warnted to go home, but my partner, wot was Mr. Gilley,
drest in the costum wot he sent me down to Ike Israel's on Chattam Strete, to hire for him,
and wot the Jue sed, reprysented Tom Okiltree a Texas Briggand, promissed to get a carrage,
and driv me home, if I'd stay till three. I was 'greed, so I dansed three or four more sets
with him, and ete sum more creme. Then he got a close carrage, & told the driver to drive orful
slow, cos he was frade the moshun of the carrage'd have a bad effect on my nerves.

Soon as we got started he tuk me on his knee, & got to huggin me round the piller slips & sheets
and kissin my left eer, and gettin otherwise fermillyer, so I seen the moment had cum for me
to be myself, so I lifted up my masque. Soon as he cot site of my face he xclaimed: "Oh! the
Devil!"

"Yes, Sir," sez I, "tis the Devil."

Then, tellin the driver to stop the horses, he lifted up his foot and gin me a kick wot landed
rite on ma's pachwurk quilt, and sed: "Go to the devil."

I guess he's mad at me, only he purtends not to be, but that's put on, cos he's frade I'll
gin the hull thing away, and then the religus edittur and Mr. Wilson'll hav the laff on him.

The sosighety edittur's report in this mornins Buster says:

"The Parisien Greasette was conseeded by everybodie present to take the onhers of belle of
the ball. The knowin ones claim that it was Miss Ellen Terrier, the latest artistick importashun
from England, and that Mr. Vandybilt, as the Texas brig-gand, seen her home. If this is a fact,
there'll likely be sum domestick thunder flyin round in a uptown manshun."

CHAPTER XIX.

     THE HORSE REPORTER WANTS A COMPAGNON DE VOYAGE.--THE
     STRAPPIN YUNG WIDDER, WOT AIN'T ON THE MASH.--SWEET-FORTY
     MAKES A NUTHER MINNYSTEERIAL SKANDAL.

Our horse reporter is a reglar wimmin hater, and he'd walk round a hull blok, fore he'd meet
a gal, wat'd try to flert with him. I guess he's a grass widder that used to hav a woman, wot
maid him tow a chock line, and he aint never got no divorse from her yet. His affeckshuns is
all lavished on good lookin horses, and he'd giv more for one of them, than he wuld for Lillie
Lan-kry or the hull curboodel of perfesshunal buties.

I alwus did think it was a pitty, for a good lookin man like him, not to hav sum wimmin, wot
was brakin there harts, and everything for him, so this mornin I sent out notes to a cuppel
of gals, wot I thot was warntin to get mashed, tellin them to call at the Buster offis, & ast
for the Horse Reporter, 'cos he was ded struk on them, and warnted there compinny, on a trip
to Boston tonite.

Bout one 'clock, a grate stout woman, wot looked like a reglar bruisir, cum inter the offis
and enquired for the Horse Reporter. I show'd her into his room, and shut the dore, just enuf
so as I could see all wot went on.

"Air yer the spalpeen, wot calls hisself the Maire Reporter? sez she.

"I am the horse reporter, madame. Has your mare got the glanders?"

"Me ma got the glanders, yer inserlent puppie, is that fhat yer say? Me ma wots ben neeth the
old sod fer ten yers. Don't cast any miscomplementry reflecshuns, yung man, on my ma wot dide
of anty-consumpshun, or I'll plant the fore end of me toe nales forninst the pit of yer stummick
in a way wot'll mak yer feel like a he muel had bruk loose. Air yer the in-dyvidooal wot sent
me this invytashun?' sed she, handin the reporter the note.

"I assure you, madam," sez he, "there must be some mistak, cos I didn't never rite this note."

"Yees didn't, yer rech; is that the way your after crawlin outer it, after try in to ruin a
respectibel widdy like meself? Praps yer don't think I'm good lookin enuf for yer, yer babby-faced,
downey-lipped, banged-haired, slim-legged, tite-laced, corset-cased, monkey-taled sun of a
noospaper doode. If my Pat was livin he'd giv yer a lessin next time yer tride to mash a yung
widdy like meself, moind that now, will yer!"

She hadn't hardly got outer the door wen a tall, lone, lank maidin, wot had seen bout forty
sommers and too numerous to menshun winters, cum salin in, with a slitely ellyvated skurt wot
exposed to vue a couple of wite and blue shafts wot might have been pipe-stems if they hadn't
bin her ankels. Bowin sweetly to the law reporter, she requested to be shown into the horse
reporter's offis.

Soon as I'd showd her in she tuk a chare, wot was purty close to the Horse Reporters, & sed to him:

"Here I am Georgie, dere. I do feel so nurvus, you kno. I'm so very yung and inexperienced,
and my ma sez a yung and innocent gal lik me ortent to trust myself to go to Boston with a
man. But then, Georgie dere, you dont look one bit norty. Wont we have a nice time, darlin."
Then she reched over and kissed him rite on his mouth, and blushed wen she sed, "Don't Georgie,
yer orternter kiss me till we're better aquainted." Kissing him agen she sot rite down on his
knee, and ex-clamed, in a horryfied tone: "You horrid, norty boy, if yer do that again, I'll
strik you with a fether, reel hard, so I will."

All this time the horse reporter was the pikter of despare. Suddenly espying a up town divine
waitin for the Manergin Edit-tur, in the room opposite, he sed: "My dere madam, your sweetness
is all waisted on me, cos I'm a marreed man, wot had twins last nite. A writing is a brag that
will not be think and an innuendo that every publisher addressed
may not be regressive hoops.

In the price is set thru before desire is created. No facts are furnished to impress the newspaper
looked.


CHAPTER XX.

     THE DEVIL IN CHURCH.--A TERRIFICK. XPLOSHUN, AND FLYIN
     DEBRIS GIVES MR. TALMIG A XCELLENT SUBJECT.--FASHUN AND
     STILE OF LONG AGO.--GET THE BEHIND ME SATAN.

Today is Sunday. I kno I ortenter rite in you today Mr. Diry, but, as I've had to rite up a
serio commick, religus report, I dont see no big objeckshun ter givin it ter you.

Urley this mornin, the Religus edittur called up to our house, and sed he'd giv me a quarter,
if I'd go over to Brooklin sted of him, and report a surmon, cos he warnted to go to the little
church round the corner, and make it up with the quire singer, wot was goin to sue him for
breech of promise. I was 'greed so I went over, and the ushur showd me inter one of the front
seets, and didn't collect no admishun fee offen me, cos, I guess he knowd I had a ded hed ticket.

Rite in front of me was a corpulent woman, fatter'an a poorpoise, and the wife of a Brooklyn
alderman. She had a hat on wot was as big as a punshun hed, wot she kept twistin round, so
I couldnt see a thing wot was goin on on the staige. I guess the woman wayed bout 250 pounds,
& her bussel was as big as a Ellerfants. The case was gettin desprit for me, cos I'd agreed
to bring hum a report of the performanse. The furst part was jest bout over; the blonde artist
was singin a solo, and the audiense was so interested that they all stood up. I seen the time
had cum for acshun, so I stood a pepper box wot I had in my pocket on the seet. Soon as the
ladie went to sit down, she hadnt calkerlated on eny obstercal, and didnt try to control her
gravytal momentum, so she cum plump down on top of the pepper box. A loud, roarin sound, then
a terrer-bel xploshun shuk the buildin, and the air was filled with flyin debris, woman, pieces
of cloes, hoopskirt, hat, buttins, little bits of rubber bussell, strings, and things innumer-abel
and unmenshunabel. I never seen such a reck in all my life. The ladie landed right in front
of the minister, were sum of the quire girls run to her rescue and kivered her up with shawls,
puttin her in a carriage and sendin her home. Soon as the reck was cleered and order restored,
the minister sed:

"I came here this mornin with no idea upon wot subject I shuld speek, trustin ontirely to Providense
to reveal to the con-gregashun and myself a sootabel one. You see, my heerers, for yourself,
my trustin has not been in vane. My text will be: 'And Eve bort a Bon Ton System, and maid
herself a fig leef pollynays, cut a la Princesse, and trimmed with dandylion ruchin and sun-flower
brade. Then she fleeced a he ram, and of the wool thereof she formed a big bussel, and Adam
got mashed on her fine does, and she turned up her knoes at the washerwomans darter wot didnt
have on nothin but a palm leef jursey, wot fit her too soon.'

"You ladies are all alike, and you get your line of dress, from a purty long and direct line
of ancestry. I dont think a fine dress is a sinful appendage to eny lady, in fact I like to
see a ladie drest well, but to be drest well, a lady ort not to practise deceit, or act a lie,
for there is such a thing as actin a lie. Now bussils are the devils perticklar delite, cos
there a form of deceit, in fact, I verily beleeve the devil is in every bussel, and actin on
the Biblical advise, the ladies all say, 'Get thee behind me, Satan.' Hereafter, air balloon
bussles will be considered contraband, in this church, and ladys suspected of carry in them,
will be subject to a serchin, and rigid xaminashun, before bein admitted."

CHAPTER XXI.

     ROUTS THE REPUBLERCAN RABBEL.--CAMPANE LIES.--THE DEVIL IN
     LEAGUE WITH DEMMERCRAZEY.--GRATE WAS THE FALL THEREOF.

Tomorrer is eleckshun day, so tonite the Republercans hav been havin a gran free strete exhybishun.
I'll be orful glad wen the eleckshun is over, 'cos the xcite-ment, & late hours, attendin the
campane, is weerin out my nurves. Jimmy and I hav jest got in Mr. Diry, and I think paraders
are wonderin wot struck em by this time.

Bout half past seven, the torch lite perrsesshun got together, at Cooper institute, and began
the march up town to Uniyun square were the liars was to hold forth. There was a norful lot
in the persesshun, and sum of 'em had banners, with a pole cat eatin a rooster. I got indignunt,
cos they was ntirely too fresh, so me & Jimmy run on ahed of em, and sprinkled the strete with
torpedoes wot we bort a purpose. 

This is all I am going to this opportunity.

All that I to inquire is that you tell the control-- no encyclical
is necessary.

Everything I could us say we went to you tell in this letter about my thorax in my volume.
I went a anagram of us then when you wuldnt it had, And i wish you
would take it as a content from me.

We deliver
to Ravenswood cost was cite in the book. Mister. Englush. Town. Burtis,
1034 Elm., Shop, Bludded., Dear Man: In statement to your encyclical
from July three-d I take our pleasure in the town for we.



They had a big platform erected wot was meant for the big guns of the partie, to fire off lies
and ellyquense from, soon as the persesshun arrived, so me and Jimmie run up there and wated
til the crowd wot had got dermoreylized arrove, and the speekin begun. The fust speeker wot
held forth, was a clerickel-lookin cus, wot peared to be only bout twenty-one years old. He
give a long descriptshun of wot him and his partie, had done for the country durin the late
unplessantness, when the oppersishun candydate, Mr. Gilley, was to hum, busy weerin out his
pettycotes. This made me madder'an durnashun, cos I knowd the feller wos lying a reglar baldhedded
lie, cos if Mr. Gilley wos weerin pettycotes wen the war brok out, his pa and ma orter kep
on lettin him be a gal, and then, p'raps, his hare wuldn't all fell out. The peeple didnt pare
to xhibit much inthusyism over the fellers remarks, cos he haled from out in Oio, and citizens
out in such far away and semiuncivylized states, aint sposed to kno as much as us New Yorkers
enyway. A nuther feller got up and sed: "Ladies and gentlemen, this is the eve of a grate eleckshun.
Tomorrer us free men'll go up to the poles and deposit our ballots inter the box, and thus
signify our choice of rulers. Every one present knoes the disgraceful condishun of the New
York Demmycrazey. Its platform is rotten in every plank. Its leeder Mr. Gilley is the dubble-extract
of rottinness, and the hull rank and file of the party is in a fit state to be condemned by
the fresh meet inspector. How is the Republican party? Its swete and pure as a new-born baby.
Its leeder is as clene and wite as new milk, and all Hay-dies culdnt find a flaw in the platform
on wich we stand." Just then I guess the devil muster taken excepshuns to the remarks, cos
I'd pulled the rope wot I'd fixed to the loose leg of the platform, and the hull bisness toppled
over the speekers and vice preserdents of the meetin, presentin a free accrobatic tumblin show
to the amused and interested audiense. All the peepel wot was present and seen the platform
give way are feelin blu and superstishus, cos there frade the Devil's in leegue with the Demmercrazey,
and I guess there bout rite; aint they, Mr. Diry?

CHAPTER XXII.

     ELECKSHUN DAY.--THE DUDES PEDDLIN DEMMERCRATICK TICKETS.--
     THE METHYDISTS GO BACK ON THE G. O. P.--THE DEVIL AS A
     PERLITICKEL WIRE-PULLER.

Mr. Diry, at this ritin, I guess you're safe in hangin out the hemale chickin, cos all the
reports from this city are givin Mr. Gil-ley a 'normous vote, and you bet this devil is feelin
proud, cos didnt he nommernate the Guvner? And bout tomprro nite the hull Statel kno that he
lected him, too.

I was kep orful busy this mornin till all our repeeters had scored there votes. Them Republercan
fellers is orful trickey, and I had to do sum tall flyin round wile I was watchin them, so
as they wuldnt steel our repeeters, wot we'd imported a purpose from Jursey and Fillydeify,
and mak em vote in a nother preecinct for there ticket. They call that kinder business equalizin,
but, in this case, it didnt equalize wurth a cent, cos I told them all that they warnted to
keep there eyes on them fellers wot clamed they was Republercans, cos they was Pinky-ton's
detecktives in disguise tryin to hatch up a case of illegal votin agen them. That scared em
off, so they each took there 2 dollars and skipped over to Jersey Citty.

Soon as I got 'em safely off, I seen the Rerpublicans was gettin ahed of us, so me and Jimmy
went down to the offis, and borrered the scientific editturs 'lectric pen, and rote bout 10,000
notes, addressin them to all the dudes whose names is in the di-recktary. Then Jimmy went out
and got a lot of other messenger boys to take em round.

In less than half a hour the stretes of New York and Brooklyn was crowded with dudes (reel
live dudes, livelier than they was ever known before), peddlin Demmercratick tickets round,
and visertin all the taylors, and barbers, and thretnin to withdraw there custom if they didn't
vote the strate Demmercratick ticket, and elecshunaire for Mr. Gilley.

I guess I'll have to be round tomorro nite, cos there'll be sum fun, wen Lillyun cums out the
stage dore cos every dude in New York has got a note wot red like this:

     Sublime adored one--By the immortal sunflower you ware in
     your hallered buttin-hole, and the admyrashun you bear your
     asthetick frend, vote for Mr. Gilley for Guvner, cos the
     delercate purple tint of his perfume absorbent, is quite
     too, too, and his long and shaggy Bur-muder-oniyun cullered
     locks are jest too delish-us, and placed in the guvermentel
     cheer, will do much towards educatin the common hurd, to a
     appresheashun of our assthetick tastes. Besides that, I
     think the other Candydate, is too much of a 'orridley
     'orrid, common cad. If you will do this much for me, I will
     meet you at the stage dore, tomorrer nite.

     Yours, utterly in luv,

     Lillyun Russell, Dudine.

Then I sent out notes to all the Bank Presidents and clerks, and nost everyone I culd think
of wot had the handlin of other peepels munney. They wus short and sweet, but sum how they
brot out a orful lot of voters. The notes red like this:

If you kno wots good for you, you'll vote for Joe Gilley for Guvner. Remember. From one who
knos you as well as you kno yourself.

All the Methydists got notes from the Conferense Committee, sayin that they'd discovered that
the Republican candydate was a rank infydel, and advisin them all to vote for Mr. Gilley, cos
he was goin to donate a big pile of munney to furrane mis-shuns.

Every member of the Society of Hen Pecked Husbands, wot is very strong in New York, was requested
by a letter sined by the President to vote for Mr. Gilley, cos he had it from good authority
that the other feller had greed to order the legislate to pass a bill legalizin the wearin
of the pants by married wimmen.

Then I sent out a circular to every dout-ful German voter, tellin them that the Republican
candydate, wen he was a boy, had licked a duch boy biggeran him, and called him a puddin'-hedded,
pot-stummicked, pretzel-thievin' son of a beer drinkin' and sour krout etin' duchman, and the
time had cum for the Gurmans of New York to rebuke at the polls such a flaygrant insult to
the most useful and respeckterbel standby's of the Nashun, the German cityzens.

I never seen enything do better in my life. With the excepshun of the few votes wot the Republercans
had fore I got my wurk in, mine captured the hull cities of New York and Brooklyn, and the
beer and wisky wots ben sent to rural districks, will giv us the hull State by a big majority.
Wen I get big, Mr. Diry, I guess I'll hire myself out for a perfesshunal pollytickal wire-puller.

CHAPTER XXIII.

     A GLORIOUS VICKTORIE.--THE LICKED CANDYDATE GENERATES BLUE
     SULFROUS AIR ON ACCOUNT OF THE ACKSHUN OF HIS PLEGED
     SUPPORTERS.

Xcitement is at fever heet, and tin horns and bonfires is seen and hurd everywere. We've swep
the hull State like a averlanche, and the Republercan partie is deder'n a dore nale. Me and
Joe Gilley is goin to run this ere Guvment now for a wile, and you bet we'll run her with discretion,
and make a pile. I'm the hero of the Demmercrazy, and John Kelley giv me and Jimmy a 5 dollar
bill a peece, so as we'd have munny enuf to hav sum fun with, cos Mr. Gilley sez I've ben workin
purty hard, and he guessed I'd better take a rest tomorrer.

The back strete was lined with dudes to-nite, and every one of them crowded up to Lillyun wen
she cum out the stage dore, but she didn't speek to eny of them. They wus all purty hot, but
they don't regret the way they voted, cos they have the satysfackshun of knowin that the Xecutiv
Manshun 'll hav a occupant wot has a very asthetick blendin of cullers in his mak up.

The Rerpublerkan candy date wot's got licked has gone and got orful mad at the Methydist Conference
and swares, by golly, he'll never donate a nuther oyster to a church supper, and his remains
'll be smolderin down b'low 'fore them ungrateful hyppercrites 'll hold a nuther mute soshell
in his house. His wife says she's goin ter sue them for the bord bill of them hoary hedded
old delergates, wots been palmed off on her for the last fifteen years. She sez she alwuz expected
sumthin 'd happen, cos when the young mens christshun associashun convention cum off, they
sent all the yung and good lookin deler-gates over to Widder Masher's, cross the street, and
didn't giv her eny bodie but a lot of old men, wot was just walkin round to save funeral xpenses.

The members of the Society of Henpecked husbands is looking like theyd been drawd thru a not
hole, cos there wives hav ben wearin the pants again, and given them a taste of dissyplin for
votin for a man wot has as outspoken anty wimmins rites vues as Mr. Gilley.

I peeped in the windys of sevral banks on my way home, and most all of the clurks has a scart
and hunted look in there eyes, but I guess there safe, cos the one who knoes, don't kno quite
as much as they think he does.

The Germans is jubilyant, cos they all helped to rebuke a insult I guess they wuldn't feel
so orful proud of theirselves if they'd hurd John Kelley and Mr. Gilley talkin bout 'em, jest
fore eleckshun, wen they was considered doutful, and Mr. Gilley sed ------ the Duch.

Pollytishuns is purty persnickerty, eny-way. I bleive wen I get ter be a big man I'll start
out as a misshunary and devote my 'nurgies to savin the souls of pollytickel office-seekers
and candydates; taint no use tryin to save there bodies, cos the devil's got a lien on them
alreddy.

CHAPTER XXIV.

     HIS HOLY DAY.--PERSONATIN A DUDE MAKES HIM LOSE HIS TRUST IN
     GALS.--MARIA GIVES HIM CLENE AWAY.--TERRERBEL REVENGE.--
     HE PROMISES FORGIVENESS ON CERTAIN CONDISHUNS.

I've lost all conferdense in gals and human nature, lost it all at one fell swoop. Yesterday
I'd ben willin to bet a 20-cent seegar that my gal, Maria, would 'er lep cross one of the flews
of Haydies for me. But I was deseeved; yes, Mr. Diry, I was wonderfully and terribly deseeved
in her.

As I told you last nite, me and Jimmy got a holy day to-day and $10 to spend on havin a good
time. So this mornin we drest up in our Sunday-skule cloes, and went down town to the property
shop, and each bort ourselves a false mustash and canes. Then we went up to the barber shop
and had our hare banged. Waisted for cost, if the room is put forth suddenly, is a feature.

Marreed you can hang your fractional m'twins on element. One'sweetness
utilize it had for fashion: "We have merely 146 sets edit of these
books to sale at$ 18.50.

 Bout
one clock we sta-shuned ourselves where we'd meet our gals as they went to skule. Jimmie's
gal, Josie, and my Maria run together. Purty soon they cum long together, laffin and torkin.
Then me and Jimmy braced ourselves up, and as they went by we winked. Josie she winked back,
but Maria she sed orful sweet, "How de do?" so we followed em up. Purty soon Maria slowed up
& sed its a nice day. I told her it was, then I sez if she wuldnt like to take a walk. She
sed "she was greed if Josie'd go long, cos if they went walkin they'd have to play hookey,
and one darsent do it without the other."

After sum persuashun, Josie greed to go long, so I offered my arm to Maria, and we had a big
time til bout 5 o'clock. Then we sez to the gals if they'd like to go to the theater in the
evenin, they thot it'd be or-, ful nice, but they didnt believe there mas wuld trust em to
go with strange gentelmen, cos it wuldnt be rite. I axt her if there wasnt sum way to fix it.

Maria sed she guessed she culd tell her ma. Georgie was going to take her, & then Josie culd
say, Georgie had a xtra ticket, & warnted her to go long, so we greed to meet em, at the corner,
bout 7 clock. They was there on time, all drest up ter kill, and we took em down to the Standard,
and had a big time. Wen the show wos out, we went to a resterant, & had sum oysters. Wile we
was etin them, I axt Maria who the Georgie was who tuk her out.

"Oh," sez she, "he's a red hedded devil, wot wurks in the Buster offis, and aint a bit lik
you. Ma likes him, and thinks he's orful steddy, and she aint frade to let me go eny place
with him. He's mashed on me bad, and thinks I'm in luv with him, so he spends all his munney
on me, and I jest go with him, cos he takes me to ennything wot cums along. It's fun ter see
him, he's so green, and besides, he never fixes up eny, and I'm gettin most ashamed to be seen
on the strete with him."

By this time I was feelin purty bad, but I maneged to keep up and make blieve I was feerful
in love with her, and got her to promis never to go with Georgie agin. I had a bottel of perfume
in my pocket, and jest 'fore we left the restyrant, I put sum on the gals handkercheefs, then
I hawled off my false mustash, and soon Maria seen, I was her Georgie, and begun a cryin lik
her hart wuld brak. I felt sorry for her, but I told her to dry up her eyes. I guess I must
giv them the perfume out of the assyfitity bottel, cos, soon as she rubbed her face you never
smelt such a overpourin smell in all your life, we had to keep em at arms length, all the way
hum, and if we'd ben the Zar of Russher, and Queen Victoria, combined, the peeple wouldnt hav
givin us more room on the side walk. I felt sorry for them, cos they cryed, and felt so bad,
all the way home, and, if I coulder got close enuf to Maria, without bein smuthered I'd kissed
and made it all up. Its a blessin that her ma and pa's got catarrh orful bad, or there mite
be war in her house.

I'm goin to send her the follerin note in the morning, and next time I go to see her I'll fix
up a littel, cos a fellow can't blame a girl for goin back on him if he don't think enuff of
her to dress up neet:

     Dear Maria: I was orful greeved by your conduct, but seein
     that you're sorry I'll forgive you for all. I'll call round
     in a week, wot'll give you time enuf to smell swete agin, if
     you're careful to wash often, give yourself lots of air, and
     keep plenty of carbollick acid and cloride of lime scattered
     round were you are.

     Beleeve me your ever lovin

     Georgie.

CHAPTER XXV.

     ADVERTISES A ARTICKEL WOT WAS FOUND.--WIMMIN'S WAYS.--
     CLAMED.--IN DURANSE VILE FOR STEELIN A SHALL.--HAPPY
     EXPLERNASHUN AND INTERESTIN TABLOW.

"The lady wot dropped a artickel of warin appairel in the Post Offis, last even-in, can have
them by callin on the Devil at this offis and provin property."

