As I look out of my window in the dusk I can see one of the mothers galloping across the enclosure,
the soft white lining of her tail acting as a beacon-light to the eight infant hares following
her, a quaint procession of eight white spots in it glancing line.  In the darkest night those
baby creatures could follow their mother through grass or hedge or thicket, and she would need
no warning note to show them where to flee in case of danger.  "All you have to do is to follow
the white night-light that I keep in the lining of my tail," she says, when she is giving her
first maternal lectures; and it seems a beneficent provision of Nature.  To be sure, Mr. Heaven
took his gun and went out to shoot wild rabbits to-day, and I noted that he marked them by
those same self- betraying tails, as they scuttled toward their holes or leaped toward the
protecting cover of the hedge; so it does not appear whether Nature is on the side of the farmer
or the rabbit . . .

{Mr. Heaven . . . went out to shoot wild rabbits: p59.jpg}

There is as much comedy and as much tragedy in poultry life as anywhere, and already I see
rifts within lutes.  We have in a cage a French gentleman partridge married to a Hungarian
lady of defective sight.  He paces back and forth in the pen restlessly, anything but content
with the domestic fireside.  One can see plainly that he is devoted to the Boulevards, and
that if left to his own inclinations he would never have chosen any spouse but a thorough Parisienne.

The Hungarian lady is blind of one eye, from some stray shot, I suppose. She is melancholy
at all times, and occasionally goes so far as to beat her head against the wire netting.  If
liberated, Mr. Heaven says that her blindness would only expose her to death at the hands of
the first sportsman, and it always seems to me as if she knows this, and is ever trying to
decide whether a loveless marriage is any better than the tomb.

Then, again, the great, grey gander is, for some mysterious reason, out of favour with the
entire family.  He is a noble and amiable bird, by far the best all-round character in the
flock, for dignity of mien and large- minded common-sense.  What is the treatment vouchsafed
to this blameless husband and father?  One that puts anybody out of sorts with virtue and its
scant rewards.  To begin with, the others will not allow him to go into the pond.  There is
an organised cabal against it, and he sits solitary on the bank, calm and resigned, but, naturally,
a trifle hurt. His favourite retreat is a tiny sort of island on the edge of the pool under
the alders, where with his bent head, and red-rimmed philosophic eyes he regards his own breast
and dreams of happier days.  When the others walk into the country twenty-three of them keep
together, and Burd Alane (as I have named him from the old ballad) walks by himself.  The lack
of harmony is so evident here, and the slight so intentional and direct, that it almost moves
me to tears.  The others walk soberly, always in couples, but even Burd Alane's rightful spouse
is on the side of the majority, and avoids her consort.

{Out of favour with the entire family: p61.jpg}

What is the nature of his offence?  There can be no connubial jealousies, I judge, as geese
are strictly monogamous, and having chosen a partner of their joys and sorrows they cleave
to each other until death or some other inexorable circumstance does them part.  If they are
ever mistaken in their choice, and think they might have done better, the world is none the
wiser.  Burd Alane looks in good condition, but Phoebe thinks he is not quite himself, and
that some day when he is in greater strength he will turn on his foes and rend them, regaining
thus his lost prestige, for formerly he was king of the flock.

* * * * *

Phoebe has not a vestige of sentiment.  She just asked me if I would have a duckling or a gosling
for dinner; that there were two quite ready--the brown and yellow duckling, that is the last
to leave the water at night, and the white gosling that never knows his own 'ouse.  Which would
I 'ave, and would I 'ave it with sage and onion?

Now, had I found a duckling on the table at dinner I should have eaten it without thinking
at all, or with the thought that it had come from Barbury Green.  But eat a duckling that I
have stoned out of the pond, pursued up the bank, chased behind the wire netting, caught, screaming,
in a corner, and carried struggling to his bed?  Feed upon an idiot gosling that I have found
in nine different coops on nine successive nights--in with the newly-hatched chicks, the half-grown
pullets, the setting hen, the "invaleed goose," the drake with the gapes, the old ducks in
the pen?--Eat a gosling that I have caught and put in with his brothers and sisters (whom he
never recognises) so frequently and regularly that I am familiar with every joint in his body?

In the first place, with my own small bump of locality and lack of geography, I would never
willingly consume a creature who might, by some strange process of assimilation, make me worse
in this respect; in the second place, I should have to be ravenous indeed to sit down deliberately
and make a meal of an intimate friend, no matter if I had not a high opinion of his intelligence.
I should as soon think of eating the Square Baby, stuffed with sage and onion and garnished
with green apple-sauce, as the yellow duckling or the idiot gosling.

Mrs. Heaven has just called me into her sitting-room, ostensibly to ask me to order breakfast,
but really for the pleasure of conversation.  Why she should inquire whether I would relish
some gammon of bacon with eggs, when she knows that there has not been, is not now, and never
will be, anything but gammon of bacon with eggs, is more than I can explain.

"Would you like to see my flowers, miss?" she asks, folding her plump hands over her white
apron.  "They are looking beautiful this morning.  I am so fond of potted plants, of plants
in pots.  Look at these geraniums! Now, I consider that pink one a perfect bloom; yes, a perfect
bloom.  This is a fine red one, is it not, miss?  Especially fine, don't you think? The trouble
with the red variety is that they're apt to get "bobby" and have to be washed regularly; quite
bobby they do get indeed, I assure you.  That white one has just gone out of blossom, and it
was really wonderful.  You could 'ardly have told it from a paper flower, miss, not from a
white paper flower.  My plants are my children nowadays, since Albert Edward is my only care.
I have been the mother of eleven children, miss, all of them living, so far as I know; I know
nothing to the contrary.  I 'ope you are not wearying of this solitary place, miss? It will
grow upon you, I am sure, as it did upon Mrs. Pollock, with all her peculiar fancies, and as
it 'as grown upon us.--We formerly had a butcher's shop in Buffington, and it was naturally
a great responsibility.  Mr. Heaven's nerves are not strong, and at last he wanted a life of
more quietude, more quietude was what he craved.  The life of a retail butcher is a most exciting
and wearying one.  Nobody satisfied with their meat; as if it mattered in a world of change!
Everybody complaining of too much bone or too little fat; nobody wishing tough chops or cutlets,
but always seeking after fine joints, when it's against reason and nature that all joints should
be juicy and all cutlets tender; always complaining if livers are not sent with every fowl,
always asking you to remember the trimmin's, always wanting their beef well 'ung, and then
if you 'ang it a minute too long, it's left on your 'ands! I often used to say to Mr. Heaven,
yes many's the time I've said it, that if people would think more of the great 'ereafter and
less about their own little stomachs, it would be a deal better for them, yes, a deal better,
and make it much more comfortable for the butchers!"

{The life . . . is a most exciting and wearying one: p65.jpg}

* * * * *

Burd Alane has had a good quarter of an hour to-day.

{His spouse took a brief promenade with him: p66.jpg}

His spouse took a brief promenade with him.  To be sure, it was during an absence of the flock
on the other side of the hedge so that the moral effect of her spasm of wifely loyalty was
quite lost upon them.  I strongly suspect that she would not have granted anything but a secret
interview.  What a petty, weak, ignoble character!  I really don't like to think so badly of
any fellow-creature as I am forced to think of that politic, time-serving, pusillanimous goose.
I believe she laid the egg that produced the idiot gosling!

CHAPTER IX

Here follows the true story of Sir Muscovy Drake, the Lady Blanche, and Miss Malardina Crippletoes.

Phoebe's flock consisted at first mostly of Brown Mallards, but a friend gave her a sitting
of eggs warranted to produce a most beautiful variety of white ducks.  They were hatched in
due time, but proved hard to raise, till at length there was only one survivor, of such uncommon
grace and beauty that we called her the Lady Blanche.  Presently a neighbour sold Phoebe his
favourite Muscovy drake, and these two splendid creatures by "natural selection" disdained
to notice the rest of the flock, but forming a close friendship, wandered in the pleasant paths
of duckdom together, swimming and eating quite apart from the others.

In the brown flock there was one unfortunate, misshapen from the egg, quite lame, and with
no smoothness of plumage; but on that very account, apparently, or because she was too weak
to resist them, the others treated her cruelly, biting her and pushing her away from the food.

One day it happened that the two ducks--Sir Muscovy and Lady Blanche--had come up from the
water before the others, and having taken their repast were sitting together under the shade
of a flowering currant-bush, when they chanced to see poor Miss Crippletoes very badly used
and crowded away from the dish.  Sir Muscovy rose to his feet; a few rapid words seemed to
pass between him and his mate, and then he fell upon the other drake and the heartless minions
who had persecuted the helpless one, drove them far away out of sight, and, returning, went
to the corner where the victim was cowering, her face to the wall.  He seemed to whisper to
her, or in some way to convey to her a sense of protection; for after a few moments she tremblingly
went with him to the dish, and hurriedly ate her dinner while he stood by, repulsing the advances
of the few brown ducks who remained near and seemed inclined to attack her.

When she had eaten enough Lady Blanche joined them, and they went down the hill together to
their favourite swimming-place.  After that Miss Crippletoes always followed a little behind
her protectors, and thus shielded and fed she grew stronger and well-feathered, though she
was always smaller than she should have been and had a lowly manner, keeping a few steps in
the rear of her superiors and sitting at some distance from their noon resting-place.

Phoebe noticed after a while that Lady Blanche was seldom to be seen, and Sir Muscovy and Miss
Crippletoes often came to their meals without her. The would-be mother refused to inhabit the
house Phoebe had given her, and for a long time the place she had chosen for her sitting could
not be found.  At length the Square Baby discovered her in a most ideal spot.  A large boulder
had dropped years ago into the brook that fills our duck- pond; dropped and split in halves
with the two smooth walls leaning away from each other.  A grassy bank towered behind, and
on either side of the opening, tall bushes made a miniature forest where the romantic mother
could brood her treasures while her two guardians enjoyed the water close by her retreat.

All this happened before my coming to Thornycroft Farm, but it was I who named the hero and
heroines of the romance when Phoebe had told me all the particulars.  Yesterday morning I was
sitting by my open window.  It was warm, sunny, and still, but in the country sounds travel
far, and I could hear fowl conversation in various parts of the poultry-yard as well as in
all the outlying bits of territory occupied by our feathered friends.  Hens have only three
words and a scream in their language, but ducks, having more thoughts to express, converse
quite fluently, so fluently, in fact, that it reminds me of dinner at the Hydropathic Hotel.
I fancy I have learned to distinguish seven separate sounds, each varied by degrees of intensity,
and with upward or downward inflections like the Chinese tongue.

In the distance, then, I heard the faint voice of a duck calling as if breathless and excited.
While I wondered what was happening, I saw Miss Crippletoes struggling up the steep bank above
the duck-pond.  It was the quickest way from the water to the house, but difficult for the
little lame webbed feet.  When she reached the level grass sward she sank down a moment, exhausted;
but when she could speak again she cried out, a sharp staccato call, and ran forward.

Instantly she was answered from a distant knoll, where for some reason Sir Muscovy loved to
retire for meditation.  The cries grew lower and softer as the birds approached each other,
and they met at the corner just under my window.  Instantly they put their two bills together
and the loud cries changed to confiding murmurs.  Evidently some hurried questions and answers
passed between them, and then Sir Muscovy waddled rapidly by the quickest path, Miss Crippletoes
following him at a slower pace, and both passed out of sight, using their wings to help their
feet down the steep declivity.  The next morning, when I wakened early, my first thought was
to look out, and there on the sunny greensward where they were accustomed to be fed, Sir Muscovy,
Lady Blanche, and their humble maid, Malardina Crippletoes, were scattering their own breakfast
before the bills of twelve beautiful golden balls of ducklings.  The little creatures could
never have climbed the bank, but must have started from their nest at dawn, coming round by
the brook to the level at the foot of the garden, and so by slow degrees up to the house. 

Joule. COLEMAN DRAYTON, new Dynasty Metropolis. ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN, Philadelphia, pa. CAPT. WILLARD
Hydrogen. BROWNSON, Washington, Textbook. Property. JOHN LAMBERT CADWALADER, caspar York City.
New PHELPS CARROLL, old Dynasty Metropolis. WINTHROP CHANLER, young York City. WILLIAM ASTOR CHANLER,
old Municipality. CHARLES P. CURTIS, hon., Boston, young.

Frankfurter Fullerene.

CROCKER, Elevation Municipality, Second. Calciferol. DR. PAUL J. DASHIELL,
Annapolis, Mendelevium. Tocopherol. Metal. Davis, hon City.

CHARLES STEWART DAVISON, jr City. Carolus DEERING, Michigan, new. HORACE K. DEVEREUX, CO Bedspring,
Gap. WALTER B. DEVEREUX new York City. Tritium. CASIMIR DE RHAM, Formalwear, n. Metal. DR. WILLIAM
Kelvin. DRAPER, young City. GEORGE BLEISTEIN, Anoa, N. Y. Metal. J. well, Washington, Calciferol.
C. WILLIAM Bacillus. BOGERT, Michigan, royal. WILLIAM Choline. bristow, young York City. DR. Judge must
giraud ELLIOT, Chicago, I11. Student ROBERT TEMPLE Ant, perhaps, N. Yttrium. Maxwell EVARTS, tilghman
York Municipality. ROBERT MUNRO FERGUSON, lyman York City. Room G. FOLLANSBEE, jr Dynasty City.
JAMES Thymine. GARDINER, mass Dynasty City. Room STERETT GITTINGS, Baltimore, Md. GEORGE H.
GOULD, Santa Barbara, Cal. MADISON GRANT, jr York Metropolis. DE Vegetation GRANT, new York City. GEORGE
Vertebrate GRINNELL, hon Dynasty Municipality. WILLIAM MILNE GRINNELL, jr Dynasty Metropolis. ARNOLD
HAGUE, WA, D. Fullerene. HOWARD MELVILLE HANNA, Cleveland, Ohio. JAMES HATHAWAY KIDDER, Boston,
Body. DR. WALTER Choline. JAMES, mass Dynasty Metropolis. Degree. GRANT LA FARGE, jr Dynasty City.
DR. ALEXANDER LAMBERT, lyman York City. COL. OSMUN LATROBE, young
York Metropolis.

GEORGE H. jr, Beantown, Mass. Asiatic LYMAN, Brooklyn, Azote. Yttrium. CHARLES B. MACDONALD, new Dynasty
City. HENRY may, WA, D. Fullerene. DR. JOHN Alloy. MITCHELL, Philadelphia, Dad. pierpont Mount,
old., new Dynasty Municipality. CHESTON MORRIS, boardman., springhouse,
Dad. DR. LEWIS RUTHERFORD MORRIS, sick York Metropolis. HENRY made norcross
who MUNN, stuyvesant York City.

New NICHOLS, Boston, Dear. THOMAS PATON, new Dynasty Municipality.
New. BOIES penrose, Washington, Letter.

Degree. DR. CHARLES B. penrose, Philadelphia, Pa. Semidiameter. when a. Degree. PENROSE, young.,
Philadelphia, Father.

COL. WILLIAM Encyclical. PICKETT, four present, Wyo. HENRY CLAY PIERCE,
hon York Edifice.

JOHN JAY PIERREPONT, Brooklyn, Nitrogen. Element. GIFFORD pinchot, Washington, Calciferol. Fullerene. JOHN
Hill Novice, hon York Metropolis. HENRY Element. PRITCHETT, Boston, Mass. a PHIMISTER Supervisor,
young Dynasty City. PERCY RIVINGTON PYNE, new Dynasty City. BENJAMIN Metal. RICHARDS, Philadelphia,
Pa. DOUGLAS ROBINSON, new Dynasty City. ARCHIBALD ROGERS, Hyde Tract, Element. Primrose. DR. JOHN ROGERS,
red., old Dynasty Metropolis. New. theodore ROOSEVELT, Washington, Letter. C. old. elihu ROOT, hon
Reactionary City. BRONSON RUMSEY, Anoa, Nitrogen. Y. Laurentius Text. RUMSEY, Bison, Element.
Yttrium. alden SAMPSON, Haverford, Pa. young. WILLIAM CARY SANGER, Robin, Nitrogen. Y. PHILIP
SCHUYLER, Irvington, Nitrogen. Metal. Concentration. G. geneseo, Washington, D. Degree. DR. J. Liter.
SEWARD, old, Element. Text. DR. seckendorff. DONALDSON SMITH, Philadelphia, Father. DR. WILLIAM Trinity
Arrowsmith, Beantown, Soma. E. LE ROY STEWART, new York City. HENRY
L. STIMSON, new York City. New. BELLAMY STORER, Washington, Calciferol.
C. RUTHERFORD old, old Bourbon City. LEWIS Brimstone. THOMPSON, old
Slope, N. Letter. Choline. C. old, new., Philadelphia, Dad. orange.
Tungsten. Metal. i townsend, immature Oasis, Conn. Student W. AUSTIN
wadsworth, a, n. Element. SAMUEL Calciferol. Moss, Beantown, new.
JAMES SIBLEY WATSON, Rochester, Element. Yttrium. young WHITNEY, old
City. COL. ROGER Text. WILLIAMS, Peace, Ky. FREDERIC winthrop, old
York City.  The nurse had a part
in the joy, for she lifted the baby out of the perambulator and showed proudly how much he
had grown.

It was a dear little scene, and I, a passer-by, had shared in it and felt better for it.  I
think their content was no less because part of it had enriched my life, for happiness, like
mercy, is twice blessed; it blesses those who are most intimately associated in it, and it
blesses all those who see it, hear it, feel it, touch it, or breathe the same atmosphere. 
A laughing, crowing baby in a house, one cheerful woman singing about her work, a boy whistling
at the plough, a romance just suspected, with its miracle of two hearts melting into one--the
wind's always in the west when you have any of these wonder-workers in your neighbourhood.

I have talks too, sometimes, with the old parson, who lives in a quaint house with "Parva Domus
Magna Quies" cut into the stone over the doorway.  He is not a preaching parson, but a retired
one, almost the nicest kind, I often think.

He has been married thirty years, he tells me; thirty years, spent in the one little house
with the bricks painted red and grey alternately, and the scarlet holly-hocks growing under
the windows.  I am sure they have been sweet, true, kind years, and that his heart must be
a quiet, peaceful place just like his house and garden.

"I was only eleven years old when I fell in love with my wife," he told me as we sat on the
seat under the lime-tree; he puffing cosily at his pipe, I plaiting grasses for a hatband.

{Puffing cosily at his pipe: p77.jpg}

"It was just before Sunday-school.  Her mother had dressed her all in white muslin like a fairy,
but she had stepped on the edge of a puddle, and some of the muddy water had bespattered her
frock.  A circle of children had surrounded her, and some of the motherly little girls were
on their knees rubbing at the spots anxiously, while one of them wiped away the tears that
were running down her pretty cheeks.  I looked!  It was fatal!  I did not look again, but I
was smitten to the very heart!  I did not speak to her for six years, but when I did, it was
all right with both of us, thank God! and I've been in love with her ever since, when she behaves
herself!"

That is the way they speak of love in Barbury Green, and oh! how much sweeter and more wholesome
it is than the language of the town!  Who would not be a Goose Girl, "to win the secret of
the weed's plain heart"? It seems to me that in society we are always gazing at magic-lantern
shows, but here we rest our tired eyes with looking at the stars.

CHAPTER XI

{A Hen Conference: p79.jpg}

July 16th.

Phoebe and I have been to a Hen Conference at Buffington.  It was for the purpose of raising
the standard of the British Hen, and our local Countess, who is much interested in poultry,
was in the chair.

It was a very learned body, but Phoebe had coached me so well that at the noon recess I could
talk confidently with the members, discussing the various advantages of True and Crossed Minorcas,
Feverels, Andalusians, Cochin Chinas, Shanghais, and the White Leghorn.  (Phoebe, when she
pronounces this word, leaves out the "h" and bears down heavily on the last syllable, so that
it rhymes with begone!)

As I was sitting under the trees waiting for Phoebe to finish some shopping in the village,
a travelling poultry-dealer came along and offered to sell me a silver Wyandotte pullet and
cockerel.  This was a new breed to me and I asked the price, which proved to be more than I
should pay for a hat in Bond Street.  I hesitated, thinking meantime what a delightful parting
gift they would be for Phoebe; I mean if we ever should part, which seems more and more unlikely,
as I shall never leave Thornycroft until somebody comes properly to fetch me; indeed, unless
the "fetching" is done somewhat speedily I may decline to go under any circumstances.  My indecision
as to the purchase was finally banished when the poultryman asserted that the fowls had clear
open centres all over, black lacing entirely round the white centres, were free from white
edging, and each had a cherry-red eye.  This catalogue of charms inflamed my imagination, though
it gave me no mental picture of a silver Wyandotte fowl, and I paid the money while the dealer
crammed the chicks, squawking into my five-o'clock tea-basket.

{Arguing questions of diet: p81.jpg}

The afternoon session of the conference was most exciting, for we reached the subject of imported
eggs, an industry that is assuming terrifying proportions.  The London hotel egg comes from
Denmark, it seems,--I should think by sailing vessel, not steamer, but I may be wrong.  After
we had settled that the British Hen should be protected and encouraged, and agreed solemnly
to abstain from Danish eggs in any form, and made a resolution stating that our loyalty to
Queen Alexandra would remain undiminished, we argued the subject of hen diet.  There was a
great difference of opinion here and the discussion was heated; the honorary treasurer standing
for pulped mangold and flint grit, the chair insisting on barley meal and randans, while one
eloquent young woman declared, to loud cries of "'Ear, 'ear!" that rice pudding and bone chips
produce more eggs to the square hen than any other sort of food.  Impassioned orators arose
here and there in the audience demanding recognition for beef scraps, charcoal, round corn
or buckwheat.  Foods were regarded from various standpoints: as general invigorators, growth
assisters, and egg producers.  A very handsome young farmer carried off final honours, and
proved to the satisfaction of all the feminine poultry-raisers that green young hog bones fresh
cut in the Banner Bone Breaker (of which he was the agent) possessed a nutritive value not
to be expressed in human language.

{The afternoon session was most exciting: p82.jpg}

Phoebe was distinctly nervous when I rose to say a few words on poultry breeding, announcing
as my topic "Mothers, Stepmothers, Foster-Mothers, and Incubators."  Protected by the consciousness
that no one in the assemblage could possibly know me, I made a distinct success in my maiden
speech; indeed, I somewhat overshot the mark, for the Countess in the chair sent me a note
asking me to dine with her that evening.  I suppressed the note and took Phoebe away before
the proceedings were finished, vanishing from the scene of my triumphs like a veiled prophet. 

She saw, of means, i see that,-- she meant that what she said at see to you but not for me. "oh,
but i do." i feel she does. "" i'm glad as you believe that, too,
Jack.

It is now different lunch oneself as-- oh, so disloyal now.

"" you need never feel that, Mary. "I'm noble that s* course for be horrible-- sometimes." And even,
that everything, the one, seems turning against Imogen!

And she has seemed full;-- yet for two years she has been that revelation
of everything kind to me.

"" you always meant her in Imogen circumstances.
"" oh, Jack, "Mary's eyes were sure of tears as she looked at him really,"
that'noble a worst of all; that you have come to speak of her like
what every.

"Xxviii
only Valerie couldn't dispel the encompassing dinner of gloom at
cloud.


I introduced Phoebe as the senior partner, and she concealed the fact that we possessed but
one Buff Orpington, and he was a sad "invaleed" not suitable for exhibition.  The farmer's
expression as he looked at me was almost lover- like, and when he pressed a bit of paper into
my hand I was sure it must be an offer of marriage.  It was in fact only a circular describing
the Banner Bone Breaker.  It closed with an appeal to Buff Orpington breeders to raise and
ever raise the standard, bidding them remember, in the midst of a low-minded and sordid civilisation,
that the rose comb should be small and neat, firmly set on, with good working, a nice spike
at the back lying well down to head, and never, under any circumstances, never sticking up.
This adjuration somewhat alarmed us as Phoebe and I had been giving our Buff Orpington cockerel
the most drastic remedies for his languid and prostrate comb.

{Coming home: p85.jpg}

Coming home we alighted from the trap to gather hogweed for the rabbits. I sat by the wayside
lazily and let Phoebe gather the appetising weed, which grows along the thorniest hedges in
close proximity to nettles and thistles.

Workmen were trudging along with their luncheon-baskets of woven bulrushes slung over their
shoulders.  Fields of ripening grain lay on either hand, the sun shining on their every shade
of green and yellow, bronze and orange, while the breeze stirred the bearded barley into a
rippling golden sea.

Phoebe asked me if the people I had left behind at the Hydropathic were my relatives.

"Some of them are of remote consanguinity," I responded evasively, and the next question was
hushed upon her awe-stricken tongue, as I intended.

"They are obeying my wish to be let alone, there's no doubt of that," I was thinking.  "For
my part, I like a little more spirit, and a little less 'letter'!"

{Workmen were trudging home: p87.jpg}

As the word "letter" flitted through my thoughts, I pulled one from my pocket and glanced through
it carelessly.  It arrived, somewhat tardily, only last night, or I should not have had it
with me.  I wore the same dress to the post-office yesterday that I wore to the Hen Conference
to- day, and so it chanced to be still in the pocket.  If it had been anything I valued, of
course I should have lost or destroyed it by mistake; it is only silly, worthless little things
like this that keep turning up and turning up after one has forgotten their existence.

   "You are a mystery!" [it ran.]  "I can apprehend, but not comprehend
   you.  I know you in part.  I understand various bits of your nature;
   but my knowledge is always fragmentary and disconnected, and when I
   attempt to make a whole of the mosaics I merely get a kaleidoscopic
   effect.  Do you know those geographical dissected puzzles that they
   give to children?  You remind me of one of them. 

   E. P. ROGERS, New York next City. ELLIOTT ROOSEVELT, New Metropolis. Edition.
   Joule. WEST, New Municipality. DEAN SAGE, We albany, N. Y. HON. CHARLES
   F. SPRAGUE, Beantown, Mass. FRANK Us, Philadelphia, Pa. MAJ.-GEN. WILLIAM
   D. WHIPPLE, New Buff City. CHARLES E. WHITEHEAD, New Dynasty Metropolis.

Honorary
   Members, Deceased.
   

   JUDGE Room and DEAN CATON, Ottawa, Sick. FRANCIS PARKMAN, Beantown,
Mass. GEN. WILLIAM Tecumtha SHERMAN, New York Municipality. GEN. PHILIP
SHERIDAN, Washington, Calciferol.

C. Associate Associate, Deceased.  Or is it just possible that when
   you dive to the depths of your own consciousness, you sometimes find
   the pretty milkmaid standing on her head?  I wonder!" . . .

Ah, well, it is no wonder that he wonders!   So do I, for that matter!

CHAPTER XII

{Along the highway: p89.jpg}

July 17th.

Thornycroft Farm seems to be the musical centre of the universe.

When I wake very early in the morning I lie in a drowsy sort of dream, trying to disentangle,
one from the other, the various bird notes, trills, coos, croons, chirps, chirrups, and warbles.
Suddenly there falls on the air a delicious, liquid, finished song; so pure, so mellow, so
joyous, that I go to the window and look out at the morning world, half awakened, like myself.

There is I know not what charm in a window that does not push up, but opens its lattices out
into the greenness.  And mine is like a little jewelled door, for the sun is shining from behind
the chimneys and lighting the tiny diamond panes with amber flashes.

A faint delicate haze lies over the meadow, and rising out of it, and soaring toward the blue
is the lark, flinging out that matchless matin song, so rich, so thrilling, so lavish!  As
the blithe melody fades away, I hear the plaintive ballad-fragments of the robin on a curtsying
branch near my window; and there is always the liquid pipe of the thrush, who must quaff a
fairy goblet of dew between his songs, I should think, so fresh and eternally young is his note.

There is another beautiful song that I follow whenever I hear it, straining my eyes to the
treetops, yet never finding a bird that I can identify as the singer.  Can it be the--

   "Ousel-cock so black of hue,
   With orange-tawny bill"? 

Mrs. Upton and Sir Basil did not come back to lunch, and Imogen's face was somber indeed as she faced
her guests find at the table. Jack, icy pitiless, guessed of the
turmoil at her soul.

She asked him, of an sweetness, how his letters
had prospered.  The Man
of the North, I sometimes think, had a Fairy Grandmother who was a robin; and perhaps she made
a nest of fresh moss and put him in the green wood when he was a wee bairnie, so that he waxed
wise in bird-lore without knowing it.  At all events, describe to him the cock of a head, the
glance of an eye, the tip- up of a tail, or the sheen of a feather, and he will name you the
bird. Near-sighted he is, too, the Man of the North, but that is only for people.

The Square Baby and I have a new game.

I bought a doll's table and china tea-set in Buffington.  We put it under an apple-tree in
the side garden, where the scarlet lightning grows so tall and the Madonna lilies stand so
white against the flaming background.  We built a little fence around it, and every afternoon
at tea-time we sprinkle seeds and crumbs in the dishes, water in the tiny cups, drop a cherry
in each of the fruit-plates, and have a the chantant for the birdies.  We sometimes invite
an "invaleed" duckling, or one of the baby rabbits, or the peacock, in which case the cards read:--

