THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A JOURNALIST

WILLIAM JAMES STILLMAN

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOLUME I

1901

PREFACE

That a man should assume that his life is worth the venture of a record in the form of an autobiography
suggests a degree of self-conceit of which I am not guilty. From my own initiative this would
never have been written, and the first suggestion that I should write it, coming from a man
of such experience in books and judgment of men as the late Mr. Houghton, then head of the
firm of Houghton, Mifflin & Co., was as much a surprise to me as the publication will be to
any one. The impression it made on me was so vivid that I have never forgotten the details
of the occasion which called it out. I had gone with Mr. Houghton and his daughters to the
ruins of the Villa of Hadrian, at Tivoli, and, wandering idly amongst them on a beautiful autumn
morning, not in the spirit of crude sightseeing, I was led to talk of my experiences more than
is my wont to do. The result of this dual education
was a strong group of young, bright and lovely overlooking the infinite Institute credit. Mrs.
Bridget although he was owed large sums, he praised the good humor and youthful beauty of
his parishioners and declared that the sight of these young ladies the rejuvenated, but it is suspected
that favors the unscrupulous covert raids those were.

- Amigas! four, if we do not turn to prayer, give to speak - said rising the highest of these
foolish virgins, girl aquiline nose and settled ways revealing a clever director roost.

- Do you have books, Adelaide?

Adelaide taught under his raincoat three most holy books do not look.

-
What provisions, Carolina?

Carolina showed a bag of suspicious-looking package.

- Everything is current. Girls up.

Put it in the bill - said nodding the hostess, while advancing towards the door .-- I'll pay when
the quarter my power.

- No, Catalina - Carolina said, pulling out his purse, - let me pay my turn.

- Under no circumstances - Catalina said, arching his black eyebrows sovereign, - and I know
you rich relatives in California promptly send you funds, but I will
not allow it.

Come on, girls, go!

When you open the door, a strong gust of wind violently entered the
store, which frightened the gracious Dona Brigida.

- For God's sake,
ladies, you should not leave this time!

I'd better stop send a message to the Institute and fix them a nice bed here.

But the last sentence was lost in the chorus of half-drowned screaming girls throwing, holding
hands, jumping in the middle of the storm, and soon were involved in the whirlwind hurricane.

Dusk, and the few hours of that December day, not illuminated the
vivid colors of the setting sun, ended quickly.

The temperature was cold for others and in the air dense whirling
snowflakes.

Inexperience, and especially the vigor of youth, gave resolution
girls, but dared to cross the field for a shortcut to avoid the bends
Mayor Street, and laughter expired on his lips and tears began to
point in Carolina's eyes.

Backward, and to reach the road, were overwhelmed by fatigue.

-
Let us go back - said Carolina.

- It would be possible as we go through
the field again - said Adelaide.

- Let's stop, then, in the first
house - said that.

- The first house - Adelaide said, peering through
the darkness rising, - is the squire Robinson - Carolina said and
started to look picaresque that even in their concern and fear did
that her cheeks were dyed with carmine.

- That's right!

Yes - Catalina said ironically - of course, let's stop at the home of Squire, and invited us
to dinner, and then we will drive home your dear friend Henry, formal apology from Mr. Robinson,
praying that this time we pardon.

No - continued Catalina with sudden energy, - that can you please yourself, but as I've come
back, by the window, or I stay at this place.

And suddenly dropped on Carolina, who was crying on a pile of snow, and shook strength.

- Then sleep. Chito! Streets! What is that?

You could hear the bells a few collars and darkness was coming towards
them a sleigh with a single conductor.

- Let's hide, girls: if someone
who knows us, we are lost.

Fortunately, it was not, and before they could put into effect his
thought, a voice unknown to their ears, but kind and pleasant timbre,
asked if he could be helpful in something.

It was a beautiful man in a sealskin coat, his head covered a cap to the body, and his face
partially covered by a scarf too fur could be seen only a few long whiskers and two black eyes
vivid.

- A son of the old St. Nicholas - Adelaide said quietly.

The girls, natural voice chatting, lying on the sled, regained their previous tranquility.

-
Where are you going to take? - Peacefully said the unknown subject.

There were, including rapidly consulted, and finally, Catalina said
with determination:

- Al Crammer Institute.

Quietly climbed the hill to the long, ascetic building was pointed
out to them.

The stranger suddenly dropped the reins and asked:

- Where do you go? You know the way better than me.

- The rear window - Catalina said with sudden and startling candor.

- I understand! - Guide replied the stranger calmly.

And when he dismounted, removed the bells sound horses.

- Now we
can approach as much as you want - added by way of explanation.

-
Certainly a son of St. Nicholas - said softly Adelaide - could not
ask news of his father?

- Silence! - Catalina said with decision,
- it may be an angel.

And with delightful inconsistency perfectly understood by his female audience, he continued:

- We made three visions.

Cautiously jumped the fence and finally stopped a few feet away from
a dark wall.

The stranger ayudolas to alight.

The confused and dim light of sunset shimmered in snow, and as the guide had beautiful hands with
his companions, each of these was subjected to a thorough examination,
but respectful.

Clothed in the most serious ayudolas to open the window, then retire quietly to the sled until
he finished the difficult and if access is not broken inside. He then returned to the window.

- Thank you, good night - girls murmured at a time.

One of the three figures was still in the window, and the stranger leaned over the railing.

-
Let me turn here this cigarette, as the light of phosphorus out there might call attention?

With the help of this light could see Catalina nicely framed in the
window.

Consumiose the match slowly between his fingers, and a mischievous
smile appeared on the lips of Catalina.

The astute young man had understood so poor subterfuge. What he had to assert, then, be first
of its kind, and what not, parents have paid the tuition for three
consecutive years?

The next day the storm had ceased, and the sun shining and cheerful
living room study, when Catherine of Corlear, which had its place
beside the window, She took pathetically hand on his heart and fell
on the shoulder of his neighbor Carolina, simulating a sudden fading.

-
You are here - sighed.

- Who? - Said Carolina forward, never clearly
understood that when Catalina formal speaking.

- Who?

For the man who saved us last night! I see him just now reaching
the door.

Calla: in a moment I'll be better.

And pathetically hypocritical passed his hand across his forehead
with a tragic manner.

- What do you want? - Carolina asked with ever
increasing curiosity.

- Ask him - he said .-- Catherine casually
may give the school their five daughters.

May want to improve the education of his wife and put on guard against us.

- Well, girl, do not look old, and fewer married - Adelaide replied
doctrinally.

- Poor girl!

That means nothing! - Catalina skeptical answered .-- Can not a never
say anything about these men ... They are so fake!

Besides, I always I have such bad luck.

- Well ... Catalina! - Began Carolina.

- Silence! The lady is going to say something - Catalina said with a smile.

- The boarders will do the favor of paying attention - a voice said quietly indolent .-- In
the parlor asking for Miss Carolina Galba.

Don Juan Prince, name stamped on the card and in various letters and credentials submitted the
Rev. Mr. Crammer, paced impatiently about the severe room officially designated with the reception
hall name, and privately among females with that of purgatory. With this scrutiny examining the
hard details of the room, from the polished furnace steam like a huge soda-cracker coating, which
heated one end of the fourth to the monumental bust of Dr. Crammer, who shudder at the other,
from the Paternoster drawn by a former teacher of calligraphy, with such a variety of stylish
features writing, which greatly diminished the value of the composition, three views population,
taken from the natural from the Institute, professor of drawing, and that nobody had been able to recognize,
from two events illustrated the Old Testament, written in letters English, so horribly remote
froze all human interest, to a large photograph of the upper class, in which the prettiest
girls were the color Ethiopic, sitting, apparently, some heads and shoulders above the others.
Mechanically flipped through the pages school catalogs, the sermons
of Dr. Crammer, the Poems of Henry Kirke White, the Legends of the
Sanctuary and Lives of celebrated women, his vivid imagination and
nervously heightened for their particular situation, it represented
the tender and touching farewell meetings that should have taken place
there, and that the room extrañose not keep something that could expressing
such human feelings, and even had almost forgotten the object of his
visit when opened the door to make way for Carolina Galba.

The visitor's face he had glimpsed the night before, seemed even more beautiful what had seemed then,
however, was as confused or discontent, though he could not expect to find such a beautiful creature.
Retained its abundant and wavy metallic gold hair dye before, its color, strange delicacy like
a flower and his eyes, chestnut color of seaweed in deep water.

It was, therefore, its beauty that he was disappointed.

Carolina was, in turn, as violent, though not as impressionable as he is. To I did have one of these
men who qualify in terms of sex nice bums, this is correct in all superficial fashion accessories,
clothing, gestures and nice figure. However, there was in him a unique distinction, not like
anyone she could remember, and often the originality so often scare
people and attract them, not he was biased in his favor.

- I can
only hope - began in friendly tone, - I remember you.

Eleven years ago was a little girl. Maybe not even be able to claim on my behalf to have enjoyed
of familiarity that could exist between a six year old girl and a boy of twenty. I which was not
very fond of children. However, I knew very well to his mother because when she led him to San
Francisco I was editor of The Avalanche in Fiddletown.

- You mean my stepmother, and you know it was not my mother - brought to Carolina vividness.

-
I meant his stepmother - she said .-- I've never seriously had the
pleasure of meeting her your mother.

- No, twelve years ago that
Mom has not been in California.

The tone of that title and distinction that set was so intended, they
began to interest Prince, after he had recovered from his first surprise.

-
Perfectly, but now that I come on behalf of his stepmother - continued
smiling, - I have to ask you for a few moments again that starting
point.

His mother, saying, his stepmother, acknowledged that his mother, the first Galba, was legally
and morally your guardian, and but in spite of their inclinations
and affections, placed again under the tutelage of the former.

-
My stepmother remarried before reaching the month of the death of
my father, and sent me home - Carolina said, raising his head slightly
and with great intent.

Mr. Prince smiled so sweetly, and apparently with much sympathy, which began to like Carolina.
No answer to the interruption, continued:

- After this act of simple justice, they stood under her mother and
stepmother to meet the costs of their education until they comply
eighteen years, at which time you must choose which of the two must
henceforth be his.

I think that at the time was told you all that and so has recognition of that agreement.

So, I was only a child - said Carolina.

- Certainly - "said Mr. Prince, with the same smile .-- But I think that the conditions never
been annoying to you or your mother, and perhaps only time will cause
some concern will be when it comes to deciding on the choice of his
mentor, which will be to meet ten and eight years ... I think the
20 th of current month.

Carolina remained silent.

- Believed to be sorry I came here for his decision, even if it is
done now.

Tan I have come to express only his stepmother, Mrs. Ponce, will
be in town tomorrow and spend a few days there.

If it wishes to see it before deciding she was glad to her in his arms, without incurring the
slightest intention of influencing their decision free from any point.

- Do you know mother she is? - Carolina said hastily.

- I could not answer it - seriously .-- Prince said I just know that
if you see a lady Ponce will leave of their mother, because she will
know to respect this part of the agreement sacredly made eight years
ago.

Your health is very delicate, and the change of scenery and peaceful countryside during few
days will be highly beneficial.

Prince set his eyes quick and piercing their eyes on the girl and
held her breath until she announced:

- Mother arrive today or tomorrow.

-
Ah! - Prince said with a sweet and languid smile.

- Col. Roberto
is here too? - Carolina asked after a pause.

- Colonel Robert is
dead for the second time widowed mother.

- Dead! - Repeated Carolina.

-
Yes - said Prince, - her stepmother had the singular misfortune to
outlive their affects more expensive.

Carolina did not seem to understand, but Prince, without explanation,
he smiled sweetly.

Two tears trembled a little while on the eyelids of Carolina.

Mr. Prince approached his chair toward her sweetly.

- I fear - said with a strange gleam in his eyes and twisting his
mustache guides - fear you worry too much about it.

Take a few days before asked for a resolution.

Talk about something else, I guess not had a cold last night.

Carolina's face acquired with a smile peculiar grace.

- Certainly would seem so crazy! ... And dímosle so much trouble! ...

- In any way, I promise. My feelings of social conventions - he added prudery, - have been alarmed
perhaps with some justice if I had proposed to help three young ladies out at night through the
window of the class, but as it was entering back into it ...

Force
the bell rang the door and Mr. Prince rose.

- Finally, take all the
time you need, and think well before deciding.

However, the ear and attention of Carolina were fixed in voices that sounded in the input. Suddenly
the door opened and the servant announced:

- Ms. Galba and Mr. Robinson.

V

Don Juan Prince was heading through the outskirts of town to the hotel, while The afternoon
train whistle pitched in his usual and indignant protest at having to stand in Genoa.

I was tired and cranky: a walk of a dozen mile drive through the towns
nothing picturesque surrounding, and between small and economical
farm houses and other camp buildings that disturbed the delicate taste,
this gentleman had left in a terrible mood.

Would even avoided his taciturn landlord not to stalk you at the
entrance same hotel.

- There's a lady in the room that awaits you.

Prince hastened up the stairs, and enter the room, flew Mrs. Ponce to him.

In fact, he had deteriorated greatly in the last ten years. His arrogant workshop had reduced,
the seductive curves of her breasts and back were broken or lost, the arm before full plasticity,
shrugged on his sleeve, and golden bracelets encircling her snowy wrists almost slipped from
her hands when her long, bony fingers shook convulsively the hands of John. He painted his face
the scorching heat of the fever, her bright eyes were still beautiful, her mouth still smiled sweetly,
but those holes gaunt cheeks were buried the dimples of long ago funny and lips parted labored breathing
to facilitate exposing white teeth, more so than I used do so at times and distant. The aura
of his blond hair still persisted, it was thinner, more ethereal and silky, but, despite their abundance,
did not hide the hollows of the temples cross of blue veins.

- Clara
- Juan said reproachfully.

- I beg you to forgive me, John! - Said,
dropping into a chair, but still clutching his hand, - forgive me
my friend, but I could not wait any longer, I would have died.

John had just died without These days.

You ask me a little more patience will not be long, but let me stay here. I must not see, will not tell,
but it is so sweet I'm finally feeling close it, I'm breathing the same air as my beloved
... I feel better already, John, I sure. And have you seen today? What was it? Say what? Tell me
everything, John. Was beautiful? They say it is. Have you grown? Does'd known? ... Are you
coming, John? Perhaps has been already here, maybe ...

He had stood up, excited, trembling and looked toward the door.

- Perhaps it is here now. Why not talk, John? By God! Explain.

Some piercing eyes were set deeply in it, with a tenderness that was perhaps alone able to understand.

-
Amiga Clara - happy affecting said - relax.

The fatigue you have paid and excitement the trip has been put in a pitiful state. I've seen Carolina,
is good and beautiful. For now, this is enough.

The serious tone and gentle firmness with which these words calmed stressed, as it often made
in the past. The hospital
was also the quarantine station, and received all the cases of smallpox which came to the port,
and they must have been many and fatal, for I have heard her say that she had to go the rounds
of the hospital at night, and that there would sometimes be five or six dead in the dead-room
at once.

The first acquaintance of my parents with each other was made in the inoculating class, my
father being resident in Westerly, a town of Rhode Island on the borders of Connecticut. The
marriage must have taken place about two years later, on the second marriage of my grandfather
Maxson to the daughter of Samuel Ward, one of the leading delegates from Rhode Island to the
convention which drew up and promulgated the Declaration of Independence[1]. Their early days
of married life must have been passed in an extreme frugality, for my father was one of a large
number of children, and, brought up on a farm, learned the trade of ship-carpenter, which he
alternated, as was generally the habit of the young men of the New England coast, with fishing
on the banks of Newfoundland in the cod-fishing season. Having, in addition, a share of the
Yankee inventiveness, he became interested in the perfecting of a fulling-machine, to introduce
which into what was then the West, he made a temporary residence in New York State, at the
old Dutch town of Schenectady, at that time the entrepôt of commerce between the Eastern cities
and New York, and the Northwest. Utica was then a frontier settlement, Buffalo an outpost in
the wilderness, and, the country having barely recovered from the war of 1812-15 between the
United States and England, enterprise and exploration had just begun to push through the thin
lines of settlements along the valleys of the Mohawk and upper Hudson, westward by Buffalo
and the great lakes to Ohio (then the Far West), and northward to the valley of the St. Lawrence.
Schenectady was the distributing point of this wagon-borne commerce and movement until the
completion of the Erie Canal, which, down to my own period of recollection, was the quickest
channel of communication westward, with its horse "packets," traveling at the creditable speed
of four miles an hour, the traffic barges making scarcely more than two.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Ward died just before the signing of the Declaration, so that his name does
not figure in the list of signers.]

Hardly established in what was intended for a temporary visit, the residence of the family
became fixed at Schenectady, owing to the partner of my father, left to manage the business
at Westerly, becoming involved in personal embarrassments which brought on the bankruptcy of
the firm and the seizure of all my father's little property, and, what was worse, the certainty
of imprisonment for debt in the case of his returning home. Owing to the judgments hanging
over him, which a succession of misfortunes prevented him from ever satisfying, it was late
in my own remembrance, I think about 1848 or 1850, before he was enabled to visit his early
home. Hard times came on the whole people of that section, and the practical destruction of
his business by the loss of all his capital drove him into seeking any employment which would
give a momentary relief.

Of this period of their existence my mother rarely spoke, and it must have been one of severe
privations. She has told me that she often went to bed hungry, that the children might have
enough to eat. She had no assistance in her household duties, except that of her daughter,
a girl of tender years, and, having her husband's five journeymen as members of the household,
with five children, of whom my sister was the second, she not only did the daily household
duties, including washing and baking, but spun and wove the cloth for the clothes of her husband
and children, cut and made them up. Her cheerful faith in an overruling Providence must have
been, in those days, a supreme consolation, for, even in recalling them in the days of my boyhood,
the light of it still illumined her, and she never questioned that He who had led them into
the wilderness would maintain them in it. She seemed to have but one care in her life while
I knew her--to know and do her duty. However, the output, a difficulty encountered unexpectedly
when you open the door, and after struggling a moment in the door in vain, looked around as if
waiting for who would take out of trouble. But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry,
did not deign to appear. He then spent a mysterious incident and sensitive, I will relate just
effortlessly to give an explanation. On the table the entrance was a silk handkerchief, property
without doubt the maid to whom I referred. While Ah-Fe tempted the bolt with one hand lightly resting
his free on the table. Suddenly, and seemingly spontaneous impulse, the tissue began to slide
gradually toward the hand of Chinese. From the hand of Ah-Fe, went inside his sleeve, slowly
and with a slow movement, like the serpent, and disappeared in some of the folds of his robe.
Without showing the slightest interest in this phenomenon, Ah-Fe yet their repeated attempts over
the bolt. Soon after, the red damask rug, moved perhaps by the same mysterious impulse, slowly
gathered it under the fingers of Ah-Fe and gently undulating disappeared by the same hidden
path. What other mysteries could have followed? This would not be easy to find, because at
that moment Ah Fe discovered the secret bolt and could open the door, coinciding with the sound
of footsteps could be heard in ladder. The Chinese do not hastened his departure, but slowly loading
the basket closed the door carefully behind him, and into the thick impenetrable fog that hung
down the street.

Reclined in the window, saw the figure of Lady Clara Ah-Fe until he
disappeared into the thick fog.

In his plight he felt deep gratitude, and perhaps Lady Clara as always, poetic and sensitive,
attributed to deep emotions and conscience satisfied a good deed, cupping the breast of the
Chinese that it was actually due to the presence the scarf and the mat under your clothing. Then,
and as the night, gray fog became more dense, Galba Mrs. Caroline shook against his chest. Leaving
the talk of the creature, ensued between emotional memories and selfish considerations at
once bitter and dangerous. The sudden appearance of Ah-Fe had re-united with Fiddletown his
past life, the path traveled since those days was useless and sad strewn with thorns, full of thorns
and difficulties and insurmountable obstacles. Nothing strange was therefore Carolina finally
ceased suddenly in the middle of their childish confidences to throw his arms around the neck
of the poor woman, and begged him not to cry because it was sad.

Heaven preserve me to use a pen, you should always engage early exposure unalterable moral, in
transcribing the specious theories about this time Lady Clara and
defended his conduct that sophistical apologies, illogical deductions,
tender apology and weak palliative.

In truth, the circumstances were very cruel, quickly depleted their low flow. Sacramento had the
opportunity to experience the verses, although rising the most sublime emotions of the human
heart, and deserve further consideration of an editor in the pages of a newspaper, are insufficient
resources for the expenses of a family, although does not give more than a lady and a young girl.
Then turned to the theater but failed completely. Maybe your concept of the passions was different
from that professed Auditorium Sacramento, but the truth is that your beautiful presence, both
charming and effect at close range, it was not for the light of the limelight quite pronounced.
Fans in his cabinet, did not lack, but did not arouse lasting affection in public. Then he remembered
I had contralto voice of no great extent and little cultivated, but very sweet melodious. Finally
achieved a place in a chapel choir, holding it for three months very much in its pecuniary advantage,
and it was said, to the satisfaction of the knights of the past banks turned their faces towards
her during the singing of the last prayer.

Well I have it engraved in memory. A ray of sunlight coming down from the window San Dives choir,
he would gently caressing the thick mass of brown hair beautiful black head and arches his eyebrows,
and dark shadow of the silken lashes his eyes of jet.

It was a pleasure to observe the opening and closing of that finely shaped mouth, quickly showing
a string of pearls on her white little teeth, and blushed to see blood satin cheek: for the
lady of Galba was useless admiration sensitive causing and like most beautiful women, are gathered
under the eyes the same as a race horse under the spur of the rider.


Every one of her sons, as they were born, she dedicated to the service of the Lord, in the
ardent hope that one of them would become a minister, and over me, the last, she let her hopes
linger longest, for, as I was considered a delicate child, unable to support the life of hard
work to which my older brothers had taken, she hoped that I might be spared for study. Only
the eldest son ever responded to her desire by the wish to enter the service of the church,
and he was far too important to my father's little workshop to be spared for the necessary
schooling. He struggled through night schools, and in the intervals of day leisure, to qualify
himself to enter the college in our city. Before doing so he fell under the notice of old Dr.
Nott, president of the college, who was, beside being a teacher of wonderful ability, a clever
inventor, and, perceiving my brother's mechanical capacity, persuaded him to abandon the plan
of entering the ministry, and made him foreman of his establishment, the "Novelty Iron Works,"
at New York, for many years known as the leading establishment of its kind in America. 

Had just left some friends for fun, so, so far, not observed gravity group, but hit a friendly man
in the back next, and fell into a chair was free.

- I just heard the best thing in the world, boys!

