Finally in 1895 it was definitely decided that the Legislature had no constitutional right
to interfere in or dictate as to the management of the University. The question was once more
the Homeopathic issue, which took the form of a legislative action to compel the Regents to
remove the School to Detroit. This time the Regents reversed their earlier policy and the measure
was stoutly resisted by the Board. Judge Claudius B. Grant, '59, in delivering the opinion
of the Supreme Court, laid down the principles now accepted as governing the relations of the
University and the Legislature. The Board of Regents, he maintained, was the only corporation
whose powers were defined in the State Constitution, whereas in the case of every other corporation
established by the Constitution it was provided that its powers should be defined by law. "No
other conclusion was, in his judgment, possible than that the intention was to place the institution
in the direct and exclusive control of the people themselves, through a constitutional body
elected by them." Otherwise the Regents would become merely "ministerial officers" with no
other duties than to register the will of the Legislature.

The independent status of the University has also been more firmly established in late years
by other legislative enactments and decisions. As early as 1863 it was recognized that the
Regents had power to hold and convey real estate, though they had no authority over the land
granted by Congress for the support of the University, nor over the principal of the fund established
through the sale of that land. In 1890 such property was declared exempt from taxation, and
in 1893 the Board of Regents was declared to be alone responsible under contracts made by it
for the benefit of the University. In the new Constitution of 1908 the Regents were given the
right of eminent domain, and on a number of occasions since that time have been able to acquire
"private property for the use of the University in the manner prescribed by law." It is difficult
to see how the growth of the University during the past twelve years with its constantly expanding
building program could have taken place without this salutary check upon the exorbitant demands
of property owners in the neighborhood of the Campus. I asked minutely, otherwise I should have until
the end of my sworn that he would have welcomed Geelhaar. "

Kunicke shook himself and wanted by any other name than Geelhaar know, and when finally spent itself and
been cheered had (only Woytasch as village authorities saw little disapprovingly bargain),
Quaas said, "Children, so we do not have all day, for not coming Hradscheck every day from Berlin.
Wherefore I think, we will make a bowl, three Moselle, a Rhine wine, a burgundy. And not too sweet.
Otherwise we have a headache tomorrow. It's only half past twelve,
missing five minutes.

And if we keep 'ran, we do at midnight the acid test. "

"Bravo!" Chimed one. "But not too early, midnight is too early."

And Hradscheck rose to oversleep Ede, the in-store on a pre-coated sugar box was to send in the basement
and to pick up the five bottles. "And watch out, Ede; Burgundy is the mixed, red and white, who
is with the green paint it.

"

Ede rubbed the sleep from his eyes, took light and basket and lifted the trap-door, between
the the stacked oil drums packed, and that the only remaining free point, the corridor led her
to the basement.

After a few minutes he was up again from the shop and knocked her to the door, a sign that
everything was there.
"Same," cried the middle of a lecture as usual staked Hradscheck,
"the same, and came only after he had finished his sentence, from
the wine bar her into the store. This pushed he manages a previously
approached ordered from the kitchen and grabbed easily terrine the
corkscrew, aufzuziehn to the bottles. But when he took the Burgundians
in the hand, gave he the boy, half-angry half-natured, a tip on the
shoulder and said, "Are a Döskopp, Ede. With green paint, I have told
you. And that is yellow. Go get 'ne correct bottle. The Legislature
has shown an ever-increasing friendliness toward the University and has never refused to come
to the aid of the institution, whatever its views as to the constitutional questions involved
in the establishment of the University. This was shown as never before by the 1919 Legislature,
which not only granted to the University appropriations amounting to $2,200,000, but gave it
by the unanimous vote of both houses, a thing which had never happened before. The Legislature
even included one item for which the officers of the University had hardly dared hope to have
favorable action at that session.

With its constitutional status so well established; with the Legislature so ready to co-operate
in furthering the best interests of the University, with its curriculum continually expanding,
though wisely and not too rapidly, and with an ever-increasing emphasis on the highest ideals
of scholarship and service, there is every promise for a future of greater usefulness and effective
service for the University. We, who love the University of Michigan for what it has accomplished,
for what it is, and for what it may become, may well look for a development through the coming
years that shall be a fitting continuation of the remarkable success of the great experiment
involved in its establishment.

CHAPTER IX

STUDENT LIFE

Although the life of the student in the earliest days of the University had a bucolic simplicity
almost unimaginable to the undergraduate of these days, it was not without its sterner side.
The Rev. Theodoric R. Palmer of the class of '47, who entered the University in 1843, thus
emphasizes the contrast between those times and the present:

     But twenty-five years had elapsed since the first steamship crossed
     the Atlantic and the first ten miles of passenger railway in the
     United States had been laid but fifteen years. The telegraph was a
     recent invention ... electricity was a plaything, and electrical
     engineering unknown.

Nothing will point this contrast better, perhaps, than the mere fact that the Michigan Central,
which had only reached Ann Arbor a year or so before, was running one train a day between Detroit
and Dexter. Most of the students we may assume, therefore, rode into town on horseback, as
he did, with their gear behind them, or perhaps took advantage of the several stage lines which
centered in Ann Arbor.

They found a little town charmingly situated in forests and farm clearings, lying for the most
part in the valley of the Huron, though gradually reaching out toward the University, from
which a few houses could be seen along the western side of the country road which now is State
Street. The Campus, which for years "looked like a small farm," was surrounded by a fence with
a turn-stile on the northwest corner. This was often broken and was finally replaced by a series
of steps, over which the students passed to their boarding houses in town after their morning
recitations and their afternoons of study. In time this stile gave way to posts with room enough
between for a man, "but not for a cow." Early hours were imperative, for kerosene or "coal-oil"
was practically unknown in the forties, and candles and whale oil were the sole source of illumination,
while the wood yard, always mentioned with deep feeling by every alumnus of that period, was
the source of heat.

Time went according to a bell mounted on a post at the rear, which seemed to have been a prolific
source of student humor. It was turned upside down in winter and filled with water, with a
corresponding vacation the following morning; the clapper was stolen; and finally in Dr. Tappan's
day it was even carried away, post and all. The President, however, was a match for the jokers
and simply announced that as the bell was a convenience which the students did not seem to
need, classes would be held henceforth without the usual call. As the regulations were very
strict as to attendance and four unexcused absences a matter for the higher powers, it was
not long before a student rose in Chapel and requested permission to reinstate the Campus time-piece,--which
was graciously granted.

There are stories innumerable of donkeys and geese appearing in unusual places and of the Chapel
on one occasion being filled with hay, while once a whole load of wood, wagon and all, was
laboriously set up on the roof of the college hall. On another occasion a number of students,
waiting for their recitation period, corralled a herd of cows grazing on the Campus, and so
thoroughly frightened one calf that he rushed into the open door of the building as the safest
refuge. Some one shut the door instantly, and when Professor Winchell's class-room door was
opened, in rushed the badly demoralized animal. The effect may be imagined. Professor Winchell
always thought it a "proposed and deliberate insult," but, as the historian of the incident
in the "Class-Book" of '61 observes: "Any one will at once perceive that no one was to blame
but the calf, who lost his presence of mind." All this humor, however, was rather elementary;
for the most part life was sufficiently sedate, and the pranks ordinarily far from atrocious.

In the earliest days the term fees of $7.50 covered the cost of rooms in the dormitories, while
the cost of board ranged from $1.50 to $2.00 a week. H.B. Nichols, a student in 1850, gave
his father the following,--

     account of monies, by me expended. In it I put an estimate of the
     term tax at $6.00. It is $6.62-1/2 and divided as follows, viz:
     Room rent, $1.50. Janitor's fees, $1.50. Wood bill $2.87-1/2 and
     Hall tax for damages to the Buildings, viz. The need to die. "

                           

* * *

"He has to his doom," said Geelhaar, but in Czech it was every day more, "He is free again.
"

And "he kümmt wedder" rut, "it said in the old house Jeschke, where the blonde niece the line
- the same, always the Hradscheck in his garden encounters with the Old used to ask - since
Christmas for a visit and was a fitting, if of course, also not on its own, worked. She was a perfectly
intelligent person, yet they No 27 had tried in different positions in life always with success
was: early on as a child and maid, then as a seamstress and then as parish cook Neumark in a
village in what capacity they not only last-named All the prayer meetings participated, but also distinguished
themselves by exemplary moral lifestyle had.

Because she was one of those who engaged, if, in its commitment required all , Also provide prayer,
virtue and loyalty.

Such claims entschlug now of course the Jeschke, the rather, if it closes the thread spun from
her distaff, only stories of beneficiary and genasführten lovers wanted to hear, especially from
a forage-Küstriner officials, three hours in the snow had to wait. Still to no avail. All
this pleased the Jeschke quite unusually, the then regularly added,
"Joa, Line, so ick wihr ook.

Awers Moak et non to dull one. "And then she replied: "How will I
do, mother Jeschke"

Because they never called her aunt, because they might be ashamed of the close relationship with
the old witch.

Both were chatting pleasure. Both were sitting and chatting Weibsen again today.

It was a pretty cold day outside and was foot-high snow. Inside, but it was pleasant, chirped
the robin, the wall clock went to a great blow, and the stove that the Seine. The first furnace
was sitting but the Jeschke, while far from the whole line with frost flowers was covered windows
and a Kuckloch had blown through which they can now see easily was
what was going on the road.

"Here comes Geelhaar gendarme," she said. »Degrees above the dam.

He has over at Kunicke have been. Understood Kunicke breakfast at
this time.

And looks so red. What does he want? He will want to make at the end of poor women, the Hradschecken
a visit. Is already four weeks Strohwittwe. "

"Nei, nei," laughed the old man. "Dat he deiht non. Which is all to joa sien ejen veel so lütt
se is.

Ne, ne, to indicate ick. Geelhaar is still one blot för so. "

And she made the motion of drinking from the bottle.

"You're right," said Line. "Look, he comes to grad on our house."

And really, in this conversation, how's the Jeschke had led to her
niece, was Geelhaar of the village street side in a narrow, only wide
aisle man entered, which, led to the Hradscheck'schen bowling along
in the garden of the old Jeschke.

From here was the entrance to the house of old, which according to the pediment of the Street was.

"Good
day, mother Jeschke," said the gendarme.

"Ah, and good day, Lineker. Or must I probably say now Linchen Mademoiselle. "

Line, the stately Geelhaar (he had served in the Gardekürassieren),
all despektirlichen Despite hints of the old, had not removed from
their list immediately put his the left foot against your opposite
rush chair and saw him on the wink large piece of canvas through which
they, as if they wanted to measure it, with an energetic Ruck and
Puff unharnessed on.

The effect of these small arts also were not.
So at least it seemed Linen. The Jeschke knew the other hand it better,
and when their Geelhaar deliberately spoken in High German Question,
"what you actually procure for the honor," a joke meant hint had answered
on line, they just laughed and said:

"Nei, nei, Mr gendarme. Ick
weet already, ick weet know ... Awers nu's cassettes are ihrst ...
Joa, diss' Hradscheck ... he nu joa kümmt wedder rut. "

"Yes, mother
Jeschke, repeated Geelhaar, kümmt" he nu wedder rut. Their hours were carefully provided for; their courses
were compulsory; and their attendance at classes insured by numbers on the class-room benches
which had to be duly covered. For this, the shawls that the students wore in the late fifties
seem to have been popular--several students, plus shawls, were able to conceal many gaps if
the monitor were not too observant.

Throughout the earlier years there was a great emphasis on public speaking, for which ample
opportunity was given in various "class exhibitions." These were inaugurated by the sophomores
in 1843 with a programme of four orations, four dissertations, four essays, and one poem. The
same class continued the precedent the next year, followed by succeeding junior classes, so
that these exhibitions became an institution, long supported not alone by the students but
by Faculty and interested citizens as well. The end did not come until 1871 when the last junior
exhibition was held. The first class-day was held by '62 in the spring of their junior year,
but it was celebrated informally and not taken very seriously until 1865 when the first real
exercises took place in May at the beginning of the "Senior Vacation." The place was the old
Presbyterian church, which seems to have been the favorite auditorium. The "presentation" of
the class was made in Greek by Professor Boise, while President Haven replied in Latin. In
one at least of these first class-day programmes the oration and poem only were public, while
the history and prophecy were submitted to the class at a convivial session at the popular
Hangsterfer's.

The place which these early platform efforts took in the life of those days is shown by two
incidents. The first is related by Gen. W.H.H. Beadle, '61, later President of the University
of South Dakota, who tells how an address by "one student" in 1858, denouncing the iniquity
of the Mexican War as begun and waged for the extension of slavery, called him to the attention
of the abolitionists, one of whom asked him if he would care to take a "long ride on a good
horse." He would of course, and did, carrying a message to a Quaker farmer in Lenawee County,
whose home was a station of the underground railway. Andrew D. White also describes with reminiscent
pleasure how he groomed one of his students to defeat a local politician, known as "Old Statistics,"
who was characterized by his senatorial aspirations and his carefully appropriate garb, tall
hat, blue swallow-tail and buff waistcoat with brass buttons. The wrath of this worthy, as
a disciple of Henry Clay, had been aroused by the teachings of Professor White, who at that
time was opposed to a protective tariff, and a public debate was to clinch the discussion. Much of that
he himself said, "Is but a hell of a guy," Kunicke. "What he wants, he can. I think he can also
a hare and brawn abziehn cook. "

On the evening when Kunicke said this, the meeting was again in the wine bar pretty long time,
and Hradscheck was not half an hour to bed, as times, the top now
the patient was asleep, came downstairs and knocked on his door.

Menswear Hradscheck, steihn's upp. De Fru posted Wed Se sülln.

Ruppkoamen "

And now he was sitting up on her bed and said, "Shall I send for Küstrin,
Ursel? Should Oelze ? Come The road is good. In three hours he is
here. "

"In three hours ..."

"Or to come Eccelius?"

"No," said
she, as she sat up mühvoll, "it does not work. One class,
at least, that of '46, held its exercises in a great revival tent, especially imported from
Chicago and set up after a week's strenuous exertion on the part of the students. The programme
consisted of short orations by the graduates, who were democratically placed on the programme
with no reference to standings. The increasing size of the classes led eventually to a Faculty
selection of certain speakers to represent the students. In 1878 class participation was abolished
and the practice of inviting distinguished men to give the Commencement address was inaugurated. Schulze Woytasch drove up and said what he was
accustomed to say in these same situations: "That it was now probably" and "It is all just a
good step ahead." Then he drank as was customary for him every Sunday before the sermon a small
glass of Madeira to strengthen himself and then made the short trip to the church and the shops.
Kunicke also came by and expressed "Hradscheck verstandnibvoll hand" and his eyes blurred just
enough to shed a tear. The "medics" and the "laws," however, soon grew strong enough to take
care of themselves and were in fact for many years largely in the majority. And with this growth
of class and departmental spirit, which increasing numbers brought, the rushing and hazing
episodes in the seventies and eighties became more serious--not so much because of their dangerous
character in themselves, as for the opportunity they gave to unfriendly critics of the institution.
The usual student, however, yields to no one in his love for his alma mater and time and again
it has only been necessary to point out the real danger to the University arising from such
practices to bring about their abandonment,--until the next crop of hazers has to go through
the same process of education.

This inter-departmental rivalry, which was most intense about 1900, naturally led to many escapades.
One picturesque incident resulted when 1900 ran a flag bearing the class numerals to the top
of the University flag-pole, and left it to sweep the skies with the halyards cut. A Western
sharpshooter was enlisted from the ranks of the Law Department and the offending emblem was
brought down on the second shot, to the great satisfaction of the "laws." Less excusable was
the method the class of 1902 took to immortalize its victory over the "laws" by painting the
class numerals prominently on the soft sand-stone of the Law Building, of which traces remain
to this day for those who know where to look. The guilty class was made to feel mightily ashamed
of itself for a while, but in after years it has proudly borne the title of "Human Skunks"
conferred upon it at the time.

Mass action has always been a favorite method of student expression. Of this the organized
"bolting" of the years just after the war is an example. This went on to such a degree that
it became necessary for the Faculty to pass a resolution stating that "in the absence of an
instructor, his class shall be expected to remain until at least five minutes after the ringing
of the bell." Apparently this did not stop the practice, and suspension or dismissal were threatened
in 1867. This rule was drastically applied in 1871 when a large number of freshmen and sophomores,
who had found Van Amburgh's circus more attractive than their classes, were actually suspended. 

LR in Prague. However, the word "investment" used in the sense of "investment". Perhaps it is you,
if we give a definition for the "Railways Magazine and steam ships, the Austria-Hungarian Monarchy ",
1 year of birth, 47th issue contained and probably to Professor Dr. L. von Stein is due. "After
your term is a Investment is not an investment in general, but the growth of productive Force
of any company with a new one, added the old capital, and with it for business unit arising
new investment. "

v. W. Berlin. The city of Rome has only recently (1888), the she-wolf with the two infants removed
from her arms, crowned instead of the shield and the star of Italy's left beside the inscription
SPQR set, as our picture shows already.

Otto Born, Neumühle-Düben. The Sultanate Obbi or Obbia is located on the east African coast Somalland
the north of the mouth of the river Juba (Juba) or Webi. According to the Italian Report has
sought the patronage of the ruler of Italy, and the same it is for granted, even after consideration
of the circumstances, the fact but in conformity with the Berlin Colonial Contracting Powers
Act has been submitted. The coast was known earlier of the German East Africa Company claimed,
however, the German Reich Protection of the same not be assumed. The Italians intend to Obbi
a coaling station to pick from here and create trade links with the interior. A special map
of "Zanzibar and the adjacent part of German East Africa" ​​for the
14th Band. To every one's surprise, however, "there was no touch
of reprimand in voice or word. In a sympathetic and familiar way, he began to talk about college
songs." He told how he had once been greeted, upon opening his mail in Sweden, by a copy of
the song "Where, Oh Where, is Doctor Tappan?" an evidence of student interest in his whereabouts
which had cheered and inspired him mightily. Then, as merely incidental, and by way of contrast,
he referred in mild tones to the obnoxious print of the night before,--"no moralizing but a
salutary and effective talk, which was greeted by hearty cheers."

Thus far we have been considering the student life of a University which, judged by modern
standards, was small and comparatively homogeneous. The student of those days knew every one
in college. The professors were able to take a personal interest in all their pupils; even
the President made it a point to know every one by name. All this has been changed within the
last twenty-five years. He repeated every her words:
"If luck hebben een's sall. Na, Se hebben't joa, Hradscheck. Awers discuss Se't non. "Yes,
so were her words were. And what was meant by all this? What should This talk of eternal joy
and happiness again? The result is that now there are nearly 9,000 students on the Campus
during the college year, and with the extraordinary increase which has followed the late war,
there is every prospect of this growth continuing.

In itself this is good evidence of the University's success as a center of education; but these
increasing throngs of students bring many difficult problems, not the least of which is the
necessity of finding an adequate supply of teachers, class rooms, and laboratories. Equally,
life in the University becomes more complicated. But they only picked for themselves.

"That is all they wanted," laughed the old man.

"It isn't Toppken, and it isn't Kroppken".

Limping back to their home, she joined Hradscheck, returning from the
garden, in the hallway.

Here, he looked thoughtfully
at the point where, half an hour ago, the rape bags had been. A look
in his eye suggested that he wished it was still there or they were
already planted, growing from the soil. Many if not most of these
organizations have some connection with individual Faculty members, either through alumni on
the Faculty or through honorary members, and this forms a basis at least for some extra class-room
relationship. Sometimes, on occasion, a certain restraint on the part of the Faculty becomes
inevitable, and the establishment of a Committee on Student Affairs, originally a committee
on "non-athletic" relations, created some fifteen years ago, has resulted. The Horse Weiner and Graf expecting me and i am already late, but
the Honor of council Schulze ancestors cannot Hradscheck too much
from dir and help is aready no more, so much have I seen.

 The only
answer necessary is the evident improvement in the general standards of all student organizations
and the mere fact that they have, for the most part, continued to exist through several student
generations; no little accomplishment in itself, when one remembers the almost automatic rise
and fall of these societies in the early days. And probably he has his reason to be. Was
it the Jeschke, so friendly and zuthulich as she were, a bad neighborhood and doesn't jokes quackly,
but also cures sympathetically, discussed blood and knew who would
die. They have seen the necessity
for constructive effort and have established such agencies as the Student Council and the Inter-fraternity
Council among the men, and the corresponding Judiciary Council and Pan-Hellenic Association
among the women. Above all, the University has profited by the two great organizations which
have been the most effective expression of student life and ideals,--the Michigan Union and
the Women's League.

