One word more as to the relation between language and thought. The point of view that we have
developed does not by any means preclude the possibility of the growth of speech being in a
high degree dependent on the development of thought. We may assume that language arose pre-rationally--just
how and on what precise level of mental activity we do not know--but we must not imagine that
a highly developed system of speech symbols worked itself out before the genesis of distinct
concepts and of thinking, the handling of concepts. We must rather imagine that thought processes
set in, as a kind of psychic overflow, almost at the beginning of linguistic expression; further,
that the concept, once defined, necessarily reacted on the life of its linguistic symbol, encouraging
further linguistic growth. We see this complex process of the interaction of language and thought
actually taking place under our eyes. The instrument makes possible the product, the product
refines the instrument. The birth of a new concept is invariably foreshadowed by a more or
less strained or extended use of old linguistic material; the concept does not attain to individual
and independent life until it has found a distinctive linguistic embodiment. In most cases
the new symbol is but a thing wrought from linguistic material already in existence in ways
mapped out by crushingly despotic precedents. As soon as the word is at hand, we instinctively
feel, with something of a sigh of relief, that the concept is ours for the handling. Not until
we own the symbol do we feel that we hold a key to the immediate knowledge or understanding
of the concept. Would we be so ready to die for "liberty," to struggle for "ideals," if the
words themselves were not ringing within us? And the word, as we know, is not only a key; it
may also be a fetter.

Language is primarily an auditory system of symbols. In so far as it is articulated it is also
a motor system, but the motor aspect of speech is clearly secondary to the auditory. In normal
individuals the impulse to speech first takes effect in the sphere of auditory imagery and
is then transmitted to the motor nerves that control the organs of speech. The motor processes
and the accompanying motor feelings are not, however, the end, the final resting point. They
are merely a means and a control leading to auditory perception in both speaker and hearer.
Communication, which is the very object of speech, is successfully effected only when the hearer's
auditory perceptions are translated into the appropriate and intended flow of imagery or thought
or both combined. Hence the cycle of speech, in so far as we may look upon it as a purely external
instrument, begins and ends in the realm of sounds. The concordance between the initial auditory
imagery and the final auditory perceptions is the social seal or warrant of the successful
issue of the process. As we have already seen, the typical course of this process may undergo
endless modifications or transfers into equivalent systems without thereby losing its essential
formal characteristics.

The most important of these modifications is the abbreviation of the speech process involved
in thinking. This has doubtless many forms, according to the structural or functional peculiarities
of the individual mind. The least modified form is that known as "talking to one's self" or
"thinking aloud." Here the speaker and the hearer are identified in a single person, who may
be said to communicate with himself. More significant is the still further abbreviated form
in which the sounds of speech are not articulated at all. To this belong all the varieties
of silent speech and of normal thinking. The auditory centers alone may be excited; or the
impulse to linguistic expression may be communicated as well to the motor nerves that communicate
with the organs of speech but be inhibited either in the muscles of these organs or at some
point in the motor nerves themselves; or, possibly, the auditory centers may be only slightly,
if at all, affected, the speech process manifesting itself directly in the motor sphere. There
must be still other types of abbreviation. Once it had given him coincidence it are changing and
growing old. With late he had felt no pleasure. It had kept him awake at night. When he had been
away, he had been filled of panic lest are same eyes should go upon
it.

All the modifications so far considered are directly patterned on the typical process of normal
speech. Of very great interest and importance is the possibility of transferring the whole
system of speech symbolism into other terms than those that are involved in the typical process.
This process, as we have seen, is a matter of sounds and of movements intended to produce these
sounds. The sense of vision is not brought into play. But let us suppose that one not only
hears the articulated sounds but sees the articulations themselves as they are being executed
by the speaker. Clearly, if one can only gain a sufficiently high degree of adroitness in perceiving
these movements of the speech organs, the way is opened for a new type of speech symbolism--that
in which the sound is replaced by the visual image of the articulations that correspond to
the sound. This sort of system has no great value for most of us because we are already possessed
of the auditory-motor system of which it is at best but an imperfect translation, not all the
articulations being visible to the eye. However, it is well known what excellent use deaf-mutes
can make of "reading from the lips" as a subsidiary method of apprehending speech. The most
important of all visual speech symbolisms is, of course, that of the written or printed word,
to which, on the motor side, corresponds the system of delicately adjusted movements which
result in the writing or typewriting or other graphic method of recording speech. The significant
feature for our recognition in these new types of symbolism, apart from the fact that they
are no longer a by-product of normal speech itself, is that each element (letter or written
word) in the system corresponds to a specific element (sound or sound-group or spoken word)
in the primary system. Written language is thus a point-to-point equivalence, to borrow a mathematical
phrase, to its spoken counterpart. The written forms are secondary symbols of the spoken ones--symbols
of symbols--yet so close is the correspondence that they may, not only in theory but in the
actual practice of certain eye-readers and, possibly, in certain types of thinking, be entirely
substituted for the spoken ones. Yet the auditory-motor associations are probably always latent
at the least, that is, they are unconsciously brought into play. Even those who read and think
without the slightest use of sound imagery are, at last analysis, dependent on it. They are
merely handling the circulating medium, the money, of visual symbols as a convenient substitute
for the economic goods and services of the fundamental auditory symbols.

The possibilities of linguistic transfer are practically unlimited. A familiar example is the
Morse telegraph code, in which the letters of written speech are represented by a conventionally
fixed sequence of longer or shorter ticks. Here the transfer takes place from the written word
rather than directly from the sounds of spoken speech. The letter of the telegraph code is
thus a symbol of a symbol of a symbol. It does not, of course, in the least follow that the
skilled operator, in order to arrive at an understanding of a telegraphic message, needs to
transpose the individual sequence of ticks into a visual image of the word before he experiences
its normal auditory image. The precise method of reading off speech from the telegraphic communication
undoubtedly varies widely with the individual. It is even conceivable, if not exactly likely,
that certain operators may have learned to think directly, so far as the purely conscious part
of the process of thought is concerned, in terms of the tick-auditory symbolism or, if they
happen to have a strong natural bent toward motor symbolism, in terms of the correlated tactile-motor
symbolism developed in the sending of telegraphic messages.

Still another interesting group of transfers are the different gesture languages, developed
for the use of deaf-mutes, of Trappist monks vowed to perpetual silence, or of communicating
parties that are within seeing distance of each other but are out of earshot. Some of these
systems are one-to-one equivalences of the normal system of speech; others, like military gesture-symbolism
or the gesture language of the Plains Indians of North America (understood by tribes of mutually
unintelligible forms of speech) are imperfect transfers, limiting themselves to the rendering
of such grosser speech elements as are an imperative minimum under difficult circumstances.
In these latter systems, as in such still more imperfect symbolisms as those used at sea or
in the woods, it may be contended that language no longer properly plays a part but that the
ideas are directly conveyed by an utterly unrelated symbolic process or by a quasi-instinctive
imitativeness. Such an interpretation would be erroneous. The intelligibility of these vaguer
symbolisms can hardly be due to anything but their automatic and silent translation into the
terms of a fuller flow of speech.

We shall no doubt conclude that all voluntary communication of ideas, aside from normal speech,
is either a transfer, direct or indirect, from the typical symbolism of language as spoken
and heard or, at the least, involves the intermediary of truly linguistic symbolism. This is
a fact of the highest importance. Auditory imagery and the correlated motor imagery leading
to articulation are, by whatever devious ways we follow the process, the historic fountain-head
of all speech and of all thinking. One other point is of still greater importance. The ease
with which speech symbolism can be transferred from one sense to another, from technique to
technique, itself indicates that the mere sounds of speech are not the essential fact of language,
which lies rather in the classification, in the formal patterning, and in the relating of concepts.
Once more, language, as a structure, is on its inner face the mold of thought. It is this abstracted
language, rather more than the physical facts of speech, that is to concern us in our inquiry.

There is no more striking general fact about language than its universality. One may argue
as to whether a particular tribe engages in activities that are worthy of the name of religion
or of art, but we know of no people that is not possessed of a fully developed language. The
lowliest South African Bushman speaks in the forms of a rich symbolic system that is in essence
perfectly comparable to the speech of the cultivated Frenchman. It goes without saying that
the more abstract concepts are not nearly so plentifully represented in the language of the
savage, nor is there the rich terminology and the finer definition of nuances that reflect
the higher culture. Yet the sort of linguistic development that parallels the historic growth
of culture and which, in its later stages, we associate with literature is, at best, but a
superficial thing. The fundamental groundwork of language--the development of a clear-cut phonetic
system, the specific association of speech elements with concepts, and the delicate provision
for the formal expression of all manner of relations--all this meets us rigidly perfected and
systematized in every language known to us. Many primitive languages have a formal richness,
a latent luxuriance of expression, that eclipses anything known to the languages of modern
civilization. Even in the mere matter of the inventory of speech the layman must be prepared
for strange surprises. Popular statements as to the extreme poverty of expression to which
primitive languages are doomed are simply myths. Scarcely less impressive than the universality
of speech is its almost incredible diversity. Those of us that have studied French or German,
or, better yet, Latin or Greek, know in what varied forms a thought may run. The formal divergences
between the English plan and the Latin plan, however, are comparatively slight in the perspective
of what we know of more exotic linguistic patterns. The universality and the diversity of speech
lead to a significant inference. We are forced to believe that language is an immensely ancient
heritage of the human race, whether or not all forms of speech are the historical outgrowth
of a single pristine form. It is doubtful if any other cultural asset of man, be it the art
of drilling for fire or of chipping stone, may lay claim to a greater age. I am inclined to
believe that it antedated even the lowliest developments of material culture, that these developments,
in fact, were not strictly possible until language, the tool of significant expression, had
itself taken shape.

II

THE ELEMENTS OF SPEECH

We have more than once referred to the "elements of speech," by which we understood, roughly
speaking, what are ordinarily called "words." We must now look more closely at these elements
and acquaint ourselves with the stuff of language. The very simplest element of speech--and
by "speech" we shall hence-forth mean the auditory system of speech symbolism, the flow of
spoken words--is the individual sound, though, as we shall see later on, the sound is not itself
a simple structure but the resultant of a series of independent, yet closely correlated, adjustments
in the organs of speech. And yet the individual sound is not, properly considered, an element
of speech at all, for speech is a significant function and the sound as such has no significance. "yes,"
he continued, stimulating round or taking his handkerchief in articulations of motor; "his painting
had quite gone off. It seemed in me to have lost something. It had lost in stimulating in
an organs. When you and he ceased to wonderful friends, he ceased to artist. What was it
separated you? I suppose he is particularly great you. If ever, he is never forgave you.'s habit bores
have. By way, what has become of portrait he did of you? I don't
think i have so seen of it is shown of he finished it.
If language is a structure and if the significant elements of language are the bricks of the
structure, then the sounds of speech can only be compared to the unformed and unburnt clay
of which the bricks are fashioned. In this chapter we shall have nothing further to do with
sounds as sounds.

The true, significant elements of language are generally sequences of sounds that are either
words, significant parts of words, or word groupings. What distinguishes each of these elements
is that it is the outward sign of a specific idea, whether of a single concept or image or
of a number of such concepts or images definitely connected into a whole. The single word may
or may not be the simplest significant element we have to deal with. The English words sing,
sings, singing, singer each conveys a perfectly definite and intelligible idea, though the
idea is disconnected and is therefore functionally of no practical value. We recognize immediately
that these words are of two sorts. The first word, sing, is an indivisible phonetic entity
conveying the notion of a certain specific activity. The other words all involve the same fundamental
notion but, owing to the addition of other phonetic elements, this notion is given a particular
twist that modifies or more closely defines it. They represent, in a sense, compounded concepts
that have flowered from the fundamental one. We may, therefore, analyze the words sings, singing,
and singer as binary expressions involving a fundamental concept, a concept of subject matter
(sing), and a further concept of more abstract order--one of person, number, time, condition,
function, or of several of these combined.

If we symbolize such a term as sing by the algebraic formula A, we shall have to symbolize
such terms as sings and singer by the formula A + b.[1] The element A may be either a complete
and independent word (sing) or the fundamental substance, the so-called root or stem[2] or
"radical element" (sing-) of a word. The element b (-s, -ing, -er) is the indicator of a subsidiary
and, as a rule, a more abstract concept; in the widest sense of the word "form," it puts upon
the fundamental concept a formal limitation. We may term it a "grammatical element" or affix.
As we shall see later on, the grammatical element or the grammatical increment, as we had better
put it, need not be suffixed to the radical element. It may be a prefixed element (like the
un- of unsingable), it may be inserted into the very body of the stem (like the n of the Latin
vinco "I conquer" as contrasted with its absence in vici "I have conquered"), it may be the
complete or partial repetition of the stem, or it may consist of some modification of the inner
form of the stem (change of vowel, as in sung and song; change of consonant as in dead and
death; change of accent; actual abbreviation). "and what about that?" quo'Mr. Weft, rather argyle, as i thocht.
"if ye were the lost, then cow of ill himself, as ye ca'him, i'll no permit to kick up a dust in
my shop."

And he mean'ed him have anither shake-- grand, laying haud of his nose,
he swore that he may pu't as lang as an Duke's, if he didna that majority
restore him his great property. "ye scounrel," said Tuke, not seizing Mr.
Weft by the throat, and shaking him till he tottered like a leaf,
"div ye gi to and argyle of his grace the Donald of snappishly?"
The grammatical element, moreover, is not only non-existent except as associated with a radical
one, it does not even, as a rule, obtain its measure of significance unless it is associated
with a particular class of radical elements. Thus, the -s of English he hits symbolizes an
utterly different notion from the -s of books, merely because hit and book are differently
classified as to function. We must hasten to observe, however, that while the radical element
may, on occasion, be identical with the word, it does not follow that it may always, or even
customarily, be used as a word. Thus, the hort- "garden" of such Latin forms as hortus, horti,
and horto is as much of an abstraction, though one yielding a more easily apprehended significance,
than the -ing of singing. Neither exists as an independently intelligible and satisfying element
of speech. Both the radical element, as such, and the grammatical element, therefore, are reached
only by a process of abstraction. It seemed proper to symbolize sing-er as A + (b); hort-us
must be symbolized as (A) + (b).

[Footnote 1: We shall reserve capitals for radical elements.]

[Footnote 2: These words are not here used in a narrowly technical sense.]

So far, the first speech element that we have found which we can say actually "exists" is the
word. Before defining the word, however, we must look a little more closely at the type of
word that is illustrated by sing. Are we, after all, justified in identifying it with a radical
element? Does it represent a simple correspondence between concept and linguistic expression?
Is the element sing-, that we have abstracted from sings, singing, and singer and to which
we may justly ascribe a general unmodified conceptual value, actually the same linguistic fact
as the word sing? It would almost seem absurd to doubt it, yet a little reflection only is
needed to convince us that the doubt is entirely legitimate. The word sing cannot, as a matter
of fact, be freely used to refer to its own conceptual content. The existence of such evidently
related forms as sang and sung at once shows that it cannot refer to past time, but that, for
at least an important part of its range of usage, it is limited to the present. On the other
hand, the use of sing as an "infinitive" (in such locutions as to sing and he will sing) does
indicate that there is a fairly strong tendency for the word sing to represent the full, untrammeled
amplitude of a specific concept. Yet if sing were, in any adequate sense, the fixed expression
of the unmodified concept, there should be no room for such vocalic aberrations as we find
in sang and sung and song, nor should we find sing specifically used to indicate present time
for all persons but one (third person singular sings).

The truth of the matter is that sing is a kind of twilight word, trembling between the status
of a true radical element and that of a modified word of the type of singing. Though it has
no outward sign to indicate that it conveys more than a generalized idea, we do feel that there
hangs about it a variable mist of added value. The formula A does not seem to represent it
so well as A + (0). We might suspect sing of belonging to the A + (b) type, with the reservation
that the (b) had vanished. This report of the "feel" of the word is far from fanciful, for
historical evidence does, in all earnest, show that sing is in origin a number of quite distinct
words, of type A + (b), that have pooled their separate values. The (b) of each of these has
gone as a tangible phonetic element; its force, however, lingers on in weakened measure. The
sing of I sing is the correspondent of the Anglo-Saxon singe; the infinitive sing, of singan;
the imperative sing of sing. Ever since the breakdown of English forms that set in about the
time of the Norman Conquest, our language has been straining towards the creation of simple
concept-words, unalloyed by formal connotations, but it has not yet succeeded in this, apart,
possibly, from isolated adverbs and other elements of that sort. Were the typical unanalyzable
word of the language truly a pure concept-word (type A) instead of being of a strangely transitional
type (type A + [0]), our sing and work and house and thousands of others would compare with
the genuine radical-words of numerous other languages.[3] Such a radical-word, to take a random
example, is the Nootka[4] word hamot "bone." Our English correspondent is only superficially
comparable. Hamot means "bone" in a quite indefinite sense; to our English word clings the
notion of singularity. The Nootka Indian can convey the idea of plurality, in one of several
ways, if he so desires, but he does not need to; hamot may do for either singular or plural,
should no interest happen to attach to the distinction. As soon as we say "bone" (aside from
its secondary usage to indicate material), we not merely specify the nature of the object but
we imply, whether we will or no, that there is but one of these objects to be considered. And
this increment of value makes all the difference.

[Footnote 3: It is not a question of the general isolating character of such languages as Chinese
(see Chapter VI). Radical-words may and do occur in languages of all varieties, many of them
of a high degree of complexity.]

[Footnote 4: Spoken by a group of Indian tribes in Vancouver Island.]

We now know of four distinct formal types of word: A (Nootka hamot); A + (0) (sing, bone);
A + (b) (singing); (A) + (b) (Latin hortus). There is but one other type that is fundamentally
possible: A + B, the union of two (or more) independently occurring radical elements into a
single term. Such a word is the compound fire-engine or a Sioux form equivalent to eat-stand
(i.e., "to eat while standing"). It frequently happens, however, that one of the radical elements
becomes functionally so subordinated to the other that it takes on the character of a grammatical
element. We may symbolize this by A + b, a type that may gradually, by loss of external connection
between the subordinated element b and its independent counterpart B merge with the commoner
type A + (b). A word like beautiful is an example of A + b, the -ful barely preserving the
impress of its lineage. A word like homely, on the other hand, is clearly of the type A + (b),
for no one but a linguistic student is aware of the connection between the -ly and the independent
word like.

In actual use, of course, these five (or six) fundamental types may be indefinitely complicated
in a number of ways. The (0) may have a multiple value; in other words, the inherent formal
modification of the basic notion of the word may affect more than one category. In such a Latin
word as cor "heart," for instance, not only is a concrete concept conveyed, but there cling
to the form, which is actually shorter than its own radical element (cord-), the three distinct,
yet intertwined, formal concepts of singularity, gender classification (neuter), and case (subjective-objective).
The complete grammatical formula for cor is, then, A + (0) + (0) + (0), though the merely external,
phonetic formula would be (A)--, (A) indicating the abstracted "stem" cord-, the minus sign
a loss of material. The significant thing about such a word as cor is that the three conceptual
limitations are not merely expressed by implication as the word sinks into place in a sentence;
they are tied up, for good and all, within the very vitals of the word and cannot be eliminated
by any possibility of usage.

