LADY BALTIMORE

By Owen Wister

     To
     S. Weir Mitchell
     With the Affection and Memories of All My Life

To the Reader

You know the great text in Burns, I am sure, where he wishes he could see himself as others
see him. Well, here lies the hitch in many a work of art: if its maker--poet, painter, or novelist--could
but have become its audience too, for a single day, before he launched it irrevocably upon
the uncertain ocean of publicity, how much better his boat would often sail! How many little
touches to the rigging he would give, how many little drops of oil to the engines here and
there, the need of which he had never suspected, but for that trial trip! That's where the
ship-builders and dramatists have the advantage over us others: they can dock their productions
and tinker at them. Even to the musician comes this useful chance, and Schumann can reform
the proclamation which opens his B-flat Symphony.

Still, to publish a story in weekly numbers previously to its appearance as a book does sometimes
give to the watchful author an opportunity to learn, before it is too late, where he has failed
in clearness; and it brings him also, through the mails, some few questions that are pleasant
and proper to answer when his story sets forth united upon its journey of adventure among gentle
readers.

How came my hero by his name?

If you will open a book more valuable than any I dare hope to write, and more entertaining
too, The Life of Paul Jones, by Mr. Buell, you will find the real ancestor of this imaginary
boy, and fall in love with John Mayrant the First, as did his immortal captain of the Bon Homme
Richard. He came from South Carolina; and believing his seed and name were perished there to-day,
I gave him a descendant. I have learned that the name, until recently, was in existence; I
trust it will not seem taken in vain in these pages.

Whence came such a person as Augustus?

Our happier cities produce many Augustuses, and may they long continue to do so! If Augustus
displeases any one, so much the worse for that one, not for Augustus. To be sure, he doesn't
admire over heartily the parvenus of steel or oil, whose too sudden money takes them to the
divorce court; he calls them the 'yellow rich'; do you object to that? Nor does he think that
those Americans who prefer their pockets to their patriotism, are good citizens. He says of
such people that 'eternal vigilance cannot watch liberty and the ticker at the same time.'
Do you object to that? Why, the young man would be perfect, did he but attend his primaries
and vote more regularly,--and who wants a perfect young man?

What would John Mayrant have done if Hortense had not challenged him as she did?

I have never known, and I fear we might have had a tragedy.

Would the old ladies really have spoken to Augustus about the love difficulties of John Mayrant?

I must plead guilty. The old ladies of Kings Port, like American gentlefolk everywhere, keep
family matters sacredly inside the family circle. But you see, had they not told Augustus,
how in the world could I have told--however, I plead guilty.

Certain passages have been interpreted most surprisingly to signify a feeling against the colored
race, that is by no means mine. My only wish regarding these people, to whom we owe an immeasurable
responsibility, is to see the best that is in them prevail. Discord over this seems on the
wane, and sane views gaining. The issue sits on all our shoulders, but local variations call
for a sliding scale of policy. So admirably dispassionate a novel as The Elder Brother, by
Mr. Jervey, forwards the understanding of Northerners unfamiliar with the South, and also that
friendliness between the two places, which is retarded chiefly by tactless newspapers.

Ah, tact should have been one of the cardinal virtues; and if I didn't possess a spice of it
myself, I should here thank by name certain two members of the St. Michael family of Kings
Port for their patience with this comedy, before ever it saw the light. Tact bids us away from
many pleasures; but it can never efface the memory of kindness.

LADY BALTIMORE

I: A Word about My Aunt

Like Adam, our first conspicuous ancestor, I must begin, and lay the blame upon a woman; I
am glad to recognize that I differ from the father of my sex in no important particular, being
as manlike as most of his sons. Therefore it is the woman, my Aunt Carola, who must bear the
whole reproach of the folly which I shall forthwith confess to you, since she it was who put
it into my head; and, as it was only to make Eve happy that her husband ever consented to eat
the disastrous apple, so I, save to please my relative, had never aspired to become a Selected
Salic Scion. I rejoice now that I did so, that I yielded to her temptation. Ours is a wide
country, and most of us know but our own corner of it, while, thanks to my Aunt, I have been
able to add another corner. This, among many other enlightenments of navel and education, do
I owe her; she stands on the threshold of all that is to come; therefore I were lacking in
deference did I pass her and her Scions by without due mention,--employing no English but such
as fits a theme so stately. Although she never left the threshold, nor went to Kings Port with
me, nor saw the boy, or the girl, or any part of what befell them, she knew quite well who
the boy was. When I wrote her about him, she remembered one of his grandmothers whom she had
visited during her own girlhood, long before the war, both in Kings Port and at the family
plantation; and this old memory led her to express a kindly interest in him. How odd and far
away that interest seems, now that it has been turned to cold displeasure!

Some other day, perhaps, I may try to tell you much more than I can tell you here about Aunt
Carola and her Colonial Society--that apple which Eve, in the form of my Aunt, held out to
me. Never had I expected to feel rise in me the appetite for this particular fruit, though
I had known such hunger to exist in some of my neighbors. Once a worthy dame of my town, at
whose dinner-table young men and maidens of fashion sit constantly, asked me with much sentiment
if I was aware that she was descended from Boadicea. Why had she never (I asked her) revealed
this to me before? And upon her informing me that she had learned it only that very day, I
exclaimed that it was a great distance to have descended so suddenly. To this, after a look
at me, she assented, adding that she had the good news from the office of The American Almanach
de Gotha, Union Square, New York; and she recommended that publication to me. There was but
a slight fee to pay, a matter of fifty dollars or upwards, and for this trifling sum you were
furnished with your rightful coat-of-arms and with papers clearly tracing your family to the
Druids, the Vestal Virgins, and all the best people in the world. Therefore I felicitated the
Boadicean lady upon the illustrious progenitrix with whom the Almanach de Gotha had provided
her for so small a consideration, and observed that for myself I supposed I should continue
to rest content with the thought that in our enlightened Republic every American was himself
a sovereign. But that, said the lady, after giving me another look, is so different from Boadicea!
And to this I perfectly agreed. Later I had the pleasure to hear in a roundabout way that she
had pronounced me one of the most agreeable young men in society, though sophisticated. I have
not cherished this against her; my gift of humor puzzles many who can see only my refinement
and my scrupulous attention to dress.

Yes, indeed, I counted myself proof against all Boadiceas. But you have noticed--have you not?--how,
whenever a few people gather together and style themselves something, and choose a president,
and eight or nine vice-presidents, and a secretary and a treasurer, and a committee on elections,
and then let it be known that almost nobody else is qualified to belong to it, that there springs
up immediately in hundreds and thousands of breasts a fiery craving to get into that body?
You may try this experiment in science, law, medicine, art, letters, society, farming, I care
not what, but you will set the same craving afire in doctors, academicians, and dog breeders
all over the earth. Thus, when my Aunt--the president, herself, mind you!--said to me one day
that she thought, if I proved my qualifications, my name might be favorably considered by the
Selected Salic Scions--I say no more; I blush, though you cannot see me; when I am tempted,
I seem to be human, after all.

At first, to be sure, I met Aunt Carola's suggestion in the way that I am too ready to meet
many of her remarks; for you must know she once, with sincere simplicity and good-will, told
my Uncle Andrew (her husband; she is only my Aunt by marriage) that she had married beneath
her; and she seemed unprepared for his reception of this candid statement: Uncle Andrew was
unaffectedly merry over it. Ever since then all of us wait hopefully every day for what she
may do or say next.

She is from old New York, oldest New York; the family manor is still habitable, near Cold Spring;
she was, in her youth, handsome, I am assured by those whose word I have always trusted; her
appearance even to-day causes people to turn and look; she is not tall in feet and inches--I
have to stoop considerably when she commands from me the familiarity of a kiss; but in the
quality which we call force, in moral stature, she must be full eight feet high. When rebuking
me, she can pronounce a single word, my name, "Augustus!" in a tone that renders further remark
needless; and you should see her eye when she says of certain newcomers in our society, "I
don't know them." She can make her curtsy as appalling as a natural law; she knows also how
to "take umbrage," which is something that I never knew any one else to take outside of a book;
she is a highly pronounced Christian, holding all Unitarians wicked and all Methodists vulgar;
and once, when she was talking (as she does frequently) about King James and the English religion
and the English Bible, and I reminded her that the Jews wrote it, she said with displeasure
that she made no doubt King James had--"well, seen to it that all foreign matter was expunged"--I
give you her own words. Unless you have moved in our best American society (and by this I do
not at all mean the lower classes with dollars and no grandfathers, who live in palaces at
Newport, and look forward to every-thing and back to nothing, but those Americans with grandfathers
and no dollars, who live in boarding-houses, and look forward to nothing and back to everything)--unless
you have known this haughty and improving milieu, you have never seen anything like my Aunt
Carola. Of course, with Uncle Andrew's money, she does not live in a boarding-house; and I
shall finish this brief attempt to place her before you by adding that she can be very kind,
very loyal, very public-spirited, and that I am truly attached to her.

"Upon your mother's side of the family," she said, "of course."

"Me!" I did not have to feign amazement.

My Aunt was silent. "Me descended from a king?"

My Aunt nodded with an indulgent stateliness. "There seems to be the possibility of it."

"Royal blood in my veins, Aunt?"

"I have said so, Augustus. Why make me repeat it?"

It was now, I fear, that I met Aunt Carola in that unfitting spirit, that volatile mood, which,
as I have said already, her remarks often rouse in me.

"And from what sovereign may I hope that I--?"

"If you will consult a recent admirable compilation, entitled The American Almanach de Gotha,
you will find that Henry the Seventh--"

"Aunt, I am so much relieved! For I think that I might have hesitated to trace it back had
you said--well--Charles the Second, for example, or Elizabeth."

At this point I should have been wise to notice my Aunt's eye; but I did not, and I continued
imprudently:--

"Though why hesitate? I have never heard that there was anybody present to marry Adam and Eve,
and so why should we all make such a to-do about--"

"Augustus!"

She uttered my name in that quiet but prodigious tone to which I have alluded above.

It was I who was now silent.

"Augustus, if you purpose trifling, you may leave the room."

"Oh, Aunt, I beg your pardon. I never meant--"

"I cannot understand what impels you to adopt such a manner to me, when I am trying to do something
for you."

I hastened to strengthen my apologies with a manner becoming the possible descendant of a king
toward a lady of distinction, and my Aunt was pleased to pass over my recent lapse from respect.
She now broached her favorite topic, which I need scarcely tell you is genealogy, beginning
with her own.

"If your title to royal blood," she said, "were as plain as mine (through Admiral Bombo, you
know), you would not need any careful research."

She told me a great deal of genealogy, which I spare you; it was not one family tree, it was
a forest of them. It gradually appeared that a grandmother of my mother's grandfather had been
a Fanning, and there were sundry kinds of Fannings, right ones and wrong ones; the point for
me was, what kind had mine been? No family record showed this. If it was Fanning of the Bon
Homme Richard variety, or Fanning of the Alamance, then I was no king's descendant.

"Worthy New England people, I understand," said my Aunt with her nod of indulgent stateliness,
referring to the Bon Homme Richard species, "but of entirely bourgeois extraction--Paul Jones
himself, you know, was a mere gardener's son--while the Alamance Fanning was one of those infamous
regulators who opposed Governor Tryon. Not through any such cattle could you be one of us,"
said my Aunt.

But a dim, distant, hitherto uncharted Henry Tudor Fanning had fought in some of the early
Indian wars, and the last of his known blood was reported to have fallen while fighting bravely
at the battle of Cowpens. In him my hope lay. Records of Tarleton, records of Marion's men,
these were what I must search, and for these I had best go to Kings Port. If I returned with
Kinship proven, then I might be a Selected Salic Scion, a chosen vessel, a royal seed, one
in the most exalted circle of men and women upon our coasts. The other qualifications were
already mine: ancestors colonial and bellicose upon land and sea--

"--besides having acquired," my Aunt was so good as to say, "sufficient personal presentability
since your life in Paris, of which I had rather not know too much, Augustus. Instead of asking
for candy afterwards she begged me to read her some poetry of Shelley or something by Schopenhauer!
Veritably a fabulous child!

Let me add three points to the foregoing statements: First, Joseffy
has always been rather skeptical of too few piano studies.

His argument is that endurance is also a prime factor of technic, and you cannot compass endurance
without you endure prolonged finger drills.

But as he has since composed-- literally composed-- the most extraordinary time-saving book
of technical studies (School of Advanced Piano Playing), I suspect the great virtuoso has dropped
from his list all the Heller, Hiller, Czerny, Haberbier, Cramer, Clementi and Moscheles. Certainly
his Exercises-- as he meekly christens them-- are multum in parvo.
They are my daily recreation.

The next point I would have you remember is this: The morning hours
are golden.

Never waste them, the first thing, never waste your sleep-freshened brain on mechanical finger
exercise. Take up Bach, if you must unlimber your fingers and your wits. But even Bach should
be kept for afternoon and evening. I shall never forget Moriz Rosenthal's amused visage when
I, in the innocence of my eighteenth century soul, put this question to him: "When is the best time
to study etudes?" "If you must study them at all, do so after your day's work is done. By your
day's work I mean the mastery of the sonata or piece you are working at. When your brain is
clear you can compass technical difficulties much better in the morning than the evening. Don't
throw away those hours. Any time will do for gymnastics."

Now there is something for stubborn teachers to put in their pipes and smoke.
My last injunction is purely a mechanical one. Therefore I thank Aunt
Carola for this gift, and for what must always go with it in my mind, the quiet and strange
romance which I saw happen, and came finally to share in. Why it is that my Aunt no longer
wishes to know either the boy or the girl, or even to hear their names mentioned, you shall
learn at the end, when I have finished with the wedding; for this happy story of love ends
with a wedding, and begins in the Woman's Exchange, which the ladies of Kings Port have established,
and (I trust) lucratively conduct, in Royal Street.

Royal Street! There's a relevance in this name, a fitness to my errand; but that is pure accident.

The Woman's Exchange happened to be there, a decorous resort for those who became hungry, as
I did, at the hour of noon each day. In my very pleasant boarding-house, where, to be sure,
there was one dreadful boarder, a tall lady, whom I soon secretly called Juno--but let unpleasant
things wait--in the very pleasant house where I boarded (I had left my hotel after one night)
our breakfast was at eight, and our dinner not until three: sacred meal hours in Kings Port,
as inviolable, I fancy, as the Declaration of Independence, but a gap quite beyond the stretch
of my Northern vitals. Therefore, at twelve, it was my habit to leave my Fanning researches
for a while, and lunch at the Exchange upon chocolate and sandwiches most delicate in savor.
As, one day, I was luxuriously biting one of these, I heard his voice and what he was saying. My
pianist splashed and spluttered, played chord-work straight from the shoulder, and when he
had finished he cried out, "There is a dramatic close for you!"
"I call it mere brutal noise," I replied, and he winked at his friend,
who went to the piano without my invitation. Young he was, very young, twenty-two or three at the most, and
as he stood, with hat in hand, speaking to the pretty girl behind the counter, his head and
side-face were of a romantic and high-strung look. It was a cake that he desired made, a cake
for a wedding; and I directly found myself curious to know whose wedding. Even a dull wedding
interests me more than other dull events, because it can arouse so much surmise and so much
prophecy; but in this wedding I instantly, because of his strange and winning embarrassment,
became quite absorbed. How came it he was ordering the cake for it? Blushing like the boy that
he was entirely, he spoke in a most engaging voice: "No, not charged; and as you don't know
me, I had better pay for it now."

Self-possession in his speech he almost had; but the blood in his cheeks and forehead was beyond
his control.

A reply came from behind the counter: "We don't expect payment until delivery."

"But--a--but on that morning I shall be rather particularly engaged." His tones sank almost
away on these words.

"We should prefer to wait, then. You will leave your address. In half-pound boxes, I suppose?"

"Boxes? Oh, yes--I hadn't thought--no--just a big, round one. Like this, you know!" His arms
embraced a circular space of air. "With plenty of icing."

I do not think that there was any smile on the other side of the counter; there was, at any
rate, no hint of one in the voice. "And how many pounds?"

He was again staggered. "Why--a--I never ordered one before. I want plenty--and the very best,
the very best. Each person would eat a pound, wouldn't they? Or would two be nearer? I think
I had better leave it all to you. About like this, you know." Once more his arms embraced a
circular space of air.

Before this I had never heard the young lady behind the counter enter into any conversation
with a customer. She would talk at length about all sorts of Kings Port affairs with the older
ladies connected with the Exchange, who were frequently to be found there; but with a customer,
never. She always took my orders, and my money, and served me, with a silence and a propriety
that have become, with ordinary shopkeepers, a lost art. They talk to one indeed! But this
slim girl was a lady, and consequently did the right thing, marking and keeping a distance
between herself and the public. To-day, however, she evidently felt it her official duty to
guide the hapless young, man amid his errors. He now appeared to be committing a grave one.

"Are you quite sure you want that?" the girl was asking.

"Lady Baltimore? Yes, that is what I want."

"Because," she began to explain, then hesitated, and looked at him. Perhaps it was in his face;
perhaps it was that she remembered at this point the serious difference between the price of
Lady Baltimore (by my small bill-of-fare I was now made acquainted with its price) and the
cost of that rich article which convention has prescribed as the cake for weddings; at any
rate, swift, sudden delicacy of feeling prevented her explaining any more to him, for she saw
how it was: his means were too humble for the approved kind of wedding cake! She was too young,
too unskilled yet in the world's ways, to rise above her embarrassment; and so she stood blushing
at him behind the counter, while he stood blushing at her in front of it.

At length he succeeded in speaking. "That's all, I believe. Good-morning."

At his hastily departing back she, too, murmured: "Good-morning."

Before I knew it I had screamed out loudly from my table: "But he hasn't told you the day he
wants it for!"

Before she knew it she had flown to the door--my cry had set her going, as if I had touched
a spring--and there he was at the door himself, rushing back. He, too, had remembered. It was
almost a collision, and nothing but their good Southern breeding, the way they took it, saved
it from being like a rowdy farce.

"I know," he said simply and immediately. "I am sorry to be so careless. It's for the twenty-seventh."

She was writing it down in the order-book. "Very well. That is Wednesday of next week. You
have given us more time than we need." She put complete, impersonal business into her tone;
and this time he marched off in good order, leaving peace in the Woman's Exchange.

No, not peace; quiet, merely; the girl at the counter now proceeded to grow indignant with
me. We were alone together, we two; no young man, or any other business, occupied her or protected
me. But if you suppose that she made war, or expressed rage by speaking, that is not it at
all. From her counter in front to my table at the back she made her displeasure felt; she was
inaudibly crushing; she did not do it even with her eye, she managed it--well, with her neck,
somehow, and by the way she made her nose look in profile. Aunt Carola would have embraced
her--and I should have liked to do so myself. She could not stand the idea of my having, after
all these days of official reserve that she had placed between us, startled her into that rush
to the door annihilated her dignity at a blow. So did I finish my sandwiches beneath her invisible
but eloquent fire. What affair of mine was the cake? And what sort of impertinent, meddlesome
person was I, shrieking out my suggestions to people with whom I had no acquaintance? These
were the things that her nose and her neck said to me the whole length of the Exchange. I had
nothing but my own weakness to thank; it was my interest in weddings that did it, made me forget
my decorum, the public place, myself, everything, and plunge in. There was more banging of steins,
and I really thought Jenkins would go off in an apoplectic fit, he
was laughing so.

"The songs are barbarous, the piano-solo pieces a muddle of confused
difficulties and childish melodies.

You call it naïveté. I call it puerility. I never saw a man that
was less capable of developing a theme than Tchaikovsky.

Compare him to Rubinstein and you insult that great master. Yet Rubinstein is neglected for
the new man simply because, with your depraved taste, you must have
lots of red pepper, high spices, rum, and an orchestral color that
fairly blisters the eye.

You call it color. I call it chromatic madness. Just watch this agile fellow. He lays hold
on a subject, some Russian volks melody.

Delighted surprise caused me once more to speak aloud, and with my mouth full. "But, dear me,
this Is delicious!"

A choking ripple of laughter came from the counter. "It's I who make them," said the girl.
"I thank you for the unintentional compliment." Then she walked straight back to my table.
"I can't help it," she said, laughing still, and her delightful, insolent nose well up; "how
can I behave myself when a man goes on as you do?" A nice white curly dog followed her, and
she stroked his ears.

"Your behavior is very agreeable to me," I remarked.

"You'll allow me to say that you're not invited to criticise it. I was decidedly put out with
you for making me ridiculous. But you have admired my cake with such enthusiasm that you are
forgiven. And--may I hope that you are getting on famously with the battle of Cowpens?"

I stared. "I'm frankly very much astonished that you should know about that!"

"Oh, you're just known all about in Kings Port."

I wish that our miserable alphabet could in some way render the soft Southern accent which
she gave to her words. But it cannot. I could easily misspell, if I chose; but how, even then,
could I, for instance, make you hear her way of saying "about"? "Aboot" would magnify it; and
besides, I decline to make ugly to the eye her quite special English, that was so charming
to the ear.

"Kings Port just knows all about you," she repeated with a sweet and mocking laugh.

"Do you mind telling me how?"

She explained at once. "This place is death to all incognitos."

The explanation, however, did not, on the instant, enlighten me. "This? The Woman's Exchange,
you mean?"

"Why, to be sure! Have you not heard ladies talking together here?"

I blankly repealed her words. "Ladies talking?"

She nodded.

"Oh!" I cried. "How dull of me! Ladies talking! Of course!"

She continued. "It was therefore widely known that you were consulting our South Carolina archives
at the library--and then that notebook you bring marked you out the very first day. Why, two
hours after your first lunch we just knew all about you!"

"Dear me!" said I.

"Kings Port is ever ready to discuss strangers," she further explained. "The Exchange has been
going on five years, and the resident families have discussed each other so thoroughly here
that everything is known; therefore a stranger is a perfect boon." Her gayety for a moment
interrupted her, before she continued, always mocking and always sweet: "Kings Port cannot
boast intelligence offices for servants; but if you want to know the character and occupation
of your friends, come to the Exchange!" How I wish I could give you the raciness, the contagion,
of her laughter! Who would have dreamed that behind her primness all this frolic lay in ambush?
"Why," she said, "I'm only a plantation girl; it's my first week here, and I know every wicked
deed everybody as done since 1812!"

She went back to her counter. It had been very merry; and as I was settling the small debt
for my lunch I asked: "Since this is the proper place for information, will you kindly tell
me whose wedding that cake is for?"

She was astonished. "You don't know? And I thought you were quite a clever Ya--I beg your pardon--Northerner.

"Please tell me, since I know you're quite a clever Reb--I beg your pardon--Southerner."

"Why, it's his own! Couldn't you see that from his bashfulness?"

"Ordering his own wedding cake?" Amazement held me. But the door opened, one of the elderly
ladies entered, the girl behind the counter stiffened to primness in a flash, and I went out
into Royal Street as the curly dog's tail wagged his greeting to the newcomer.

III: Kings Port Talks

Of course I had at once left the letters of introduction which Aunt Carola had given me; but
in my ignorance of Kings Port hours I had found everybody at dinner when I made my first round
of calls between half-past three and five--an experience particularly regrettable, since I
had hurried my own dinner on purpose, not then aware that the hours at my boarding-house were
the custom of the whole town. (These hours even since my visit to Kings Port, are beginning
to change. A pianist made, not born, I should say.

He was really at his best when he unchained his fancy. His musical
grotesques are a survival from the Hoffmann period, but written so
as to throw an ironic light upon the artistic tendencies of our time.

As I rang the first doorbell, another visitor came up the steps, a beautiful old lady in widow's
dress, a cardcase in her hand.

"Have you rung, sir?" said she, in a manner at once gentle and voluminous.

"Yes, madam."

Nevertheless she pulled it again. "It doesn't always ring," she explained, "unless one is accustomed
to it, which you are not."

She addressed me with authority, exactly like Aunt Carola, and with even greater precision
in her good English and good enunciation. Unlike the girl at the Exchange, she had no accent;
her language was simply the perfection of educated utterance; it also was racy with the free
censoriousness which civilized people of consequence are apt to exercise the world over. "I
was sorry to miss your visit," she began (she knew me, you see, perfectly); "you will please
to come again soon, and console me for my disappointment. I am Mrs. Gregory St. Michael, and
my house is in Le Maire Street (Pronounced in Kings Port, Lammarree) as you have been so civil
as to find out. And how does your Aunt Carola do in these contemptible times? You can tell
her from me that vulgarization is descending, even upon Kings Port."

"I cannot imagine that!" I exclaimed.

