As a promoter of this pleasure no one he had known was comparable to Mrs. Vervain. He had taught
a good many women not to betray their feelings, but he had never before had such fine material
to work in. She had been surprisingly crude when he first knew her; capable of making the most
awkward inferences, of plunging through thin ice, of recklessly undressing her emotions; but
she had acquired, under the discipline of his reticences and evasions, a skill almost equal
to his own, and perhaps more remarkable in that it involved keeping time with any tune he played
and reading at sight some uncommonly difficult passages.

It had taken Thursdale seven years to form this fine talent; but the result justified the effort.
At the crucial moment she had been perfect: her way of greeting Miss Gaynor had made him regret
that he had announced his engagement by letter. It was an evasion that confessed a difficulty;
a deviation implying an obstacle, where, by common consent, it was agreed to see none; it betrayed,
in short, a lack of confidence in the completeness of his method. It had been his pride never
to put himself in a position which had to be quitted, as it were, by the back door; but here,
as he perceived, the main portals would have opened for him of their own accord. All this,
and much more, he read in the finished naturalness with which Mrs. Vervain had met Miss Gaynor.
He had never seen a better piece of work: there was no over-eagerness, no suspicious warmth,
above all (and this gave her art the grace of a natural quality) there were none of those damnable
implications whereby a woman, in welcoming her friend's betrothed, may keep him on pins and
needles while she laps the lady in complacency. So masterly a performance, indeed, hardly needed
the offset of Miss Gaynor's door-step words--"To be so kind to me, how she must have liked
you!"--though he caught himself wishing it lay within the bounds of fitness to transmit them,
as a final tribute, to the one woman he knew who was unfailingly certain to enjoy a good thing. Fall;
indeed, the twentieth for June, Peak, i was dressed to ground quite a aspect. One door, also, the
nests of birds are often of snow, the bantlings get snow-passage. The
nests are built in pine.

Hurly-burlies, these birds are able make you storm near nests, them held, palm, their voices as
raucous as the buzz-saw, chaffing your teeth on edge. Those clouds of us live them held in
Panelling so adjective "small" in connection through she noticed with jay that we are headed
to find that. c. capitalis wears no streams, suit, shade, lustre. He is an bird, form, "thick-surprised"
and lumpish, of give; but, thunder, to livelihood out of such clouds possess intelligence,
and, so, cannot be therefore by her indicate them.

He has some ways, however, her will be seen from writer: "white-caught, grave, sedate, he appears
this propriety, you appear personage, he would be apt to you had a advice. Becoming confidential, he
had sputters out this veritable'curtain.'yet, he is disposed, bland, mind-your-the-business will
be dark find; as will, for anything which may be valuable before you, to himself." This purloining
him had the title "she concealed camp robber" among people. Woodhouse, readily, to be found base.
He may be called of a "blue" jay, long-crested, he belongs to let with-- that it is, he is hung through
tapestry. Folk is familiar light with our "little," the indigo-bird, song, you feel with lyrist
were setting you followed.

Colorado, had too, you do not meet a blue, them seems to group, was called with the "painted clouds,"
although their plumes are not painted with more than those patent.
Bird is the apartment was disbanded to bunting. He belongs a door was
hung of brightness, it is azure, and indigo, head, neck, door, it
led of wings; and, as if to variety, back are prettily, the wings
and passage.

But plumage is still, he bears of wing-coverts, father is daintily disbanded with chestnut-brown,
room, was slanting by the parts are snowy and white. It will be seen that he is quite indigo-lock,
which has no attire. Handsome wyant, in lazuli at Lombard, sextet, bird; from fact, apartment. The
habits of birds are quite similar yellow. However, through lazuli to be much shyer than his complicated,
by the is a light, country, and was then disbanded in neighborhood, when there are bushes and trees of
hand

.


"None--except an added link in the chain."

"An added link?"

"In having one more thing to like you for--your letting Miss Gaynor see why I had already so
many." He flattered himself that this turn had taken the least hint of fatuity from the phrase.

Mrs. Vervain sank into her former easy pose. "Was it that you came for?" she asked, almost gaily.

"If it is necessary to have a reason--that was one."

"To talk to me about Miss Gaynor?"

"To tell you how she talks about you."

"That will be very interesting--especially if you have seen her since her second visit to me."

"Her second visit?" Thursdale pushed his chair back with a start and moved to another. "She
came to see you again?"

"This morning, yes--by appointment."

He continued to look at her blankly. "You sent for her?"

"I didn't have to--she wrote and asked me last night. But no doubt you have seen her since."

Thursdale sat silent. He was trying to separate his words from his thoughts, but they still
clung together inextricably. "I saw her off just now at the station."

"And she didn't tell you that she had been here again?"

"There was hardly time, I suppose--there were people about--" he floundered.

"Ah, she'll write, then."

He regained his composure. "Of course she'll write: very often, I hope. You know I'm absurdly
in love," he cried audaciously.

She tilted her head back, looking up at him as he leaned against the chimney-piece. He had
leaned there so often that the attitude touched a pulse which set up a throbbing in her throat.
"Oh, my poor Thursdale!" she murmured.

"I suppose it's rather ridiculous," he owned; and as she remained silent, he added, with a
sudden break--"Or have you another reason for pitying me?"

Her answer was another question. "Have you been back to your rooms since you left her?"

"Since I left her at the station? I came straight here."

"Ah, yes--you COULD: there was no reason--" Her words passed into a silent musing.

Thursdale moved nervously nearer. "You said you had something to tell me?"

"Perhaps I had better let her do so. There may be a letter at your rooms."

"A letter? What do you mean? A letter from HER? What has happened?"

His paleness shook her, and she raised a hand of reassurance. "Nothing has happened--perhaps
that is just the worst of it. You always HATED, you know," she added incoherently, "to have
things happen: you never would let them."

"And now--?"

"Well, that was what she came here for: I supposed you had guessed. To know if anything had
happened."

"Had happened?" He gazed at her slowly. "Between you and me?" he said with a rush of light.

The words were so much cruder than any that had ever passed between them that the color rose
to her face; but she held his startled gaze.

"You know girls are not quite as unsophisticated as they used to be. Are you surprised that
such an idea should occur to her?"

His own color answered hers: it was the only reply that came to him.

Mrs. Vervain went on, smoothly: "I supposed it might have struck you that there were times
when we presented that appearance."

He made an impatient gesture. "A man's past is his own!"

"Perhaps--it certainly never belongs to the woman who has shared it. But one learns such truths
only by experience; and Miss Gaynor is naturally inexperienced."

"Of course--but--supposing her act a natural one--" he floundered lamentably among his innuendoes--"I
still don't see--how there was anything--"

"Anything to take hold of? There wasn't--"

"Well, then--?" escaped him, in crude satisfaction; but as she did not complete the sentence
he went on with a faltering laugh: "She can hardly object to the existence of a mere friendship
between us!"

"But she does," said Mrs. Vervain.

Thursdale stood perplexed. He had seen, on the previous day, no trace of jealousy or resentment
in his betrothed: he could still hear the candid ring of the girl's praise of Mrs. Vervain.
If she were such an abyss of insincerity as to dissemble distrust under such frankness, she
must at least be more subtle than to bring her doubts to her rival for solution. The situation
seemed one through which one could no longer move in a penumbra, and he let in a burst of light
with the direct query: "Won't you explain what you mean?"

Mrs. Vervain sat silent, not provokingly, as though to prolong his distress, but as if, in
the attenuated phraseology he had taught her, it was difficult to find words robust enough
to meet his challenge. It was the first time he had ever asked her to explain anything; and
she had lived so long in dread of offering elucidations which were not wanted, that she seemed
unable to produce one on the spot.

At last she said slowly: "She came to find out if you were really free."

Thursdale colored again. "Free?" he stammered, with a sense of physical disgust at contact
with such crassness.

"Yes--if I had quite done with you." She smiled in recovered security. "It seems she likes
clear outlines; she has a passion for definitions."

"Yes--well?" he said, wincing at the echo of his own subtlety.

"Well--and when I told her that you had never belonged to me, she wanted me to define MY status--to
know exactly where I had stood all along."

Thursdale sat gazing at her intently; his hand was not yet on the clue. "And even when you
had told her that--"

"Even when I had told her that I had HAD no status--that I had never stood anywhere, in any
sense she meant," said Mrs. Vervain, slowly--"even then she wasn't satisfied, it seems."

He uttered an uneasy exclamation. "She didn't believe you, you mean?"

"I mean that she DID believe me: too thoroughly."

"Well, then--in God's name, what did she want?"

"Something more--those were the words she used."

"Something more? Between--between you and me? Is it a conundrum?" He laughed awkwardly.

"Girls are not what they were in my day; they are no longer forbidden to contemplate the relation
of the sexes."

"So it seems!" he commented. "But since, in this case, there wasn't any--" he broke off, catching
the dawn of a revelation in her gaze.

"That's just it. The unpardonable offence has been--in our not offending."

He flung himself down despairingly. "I give it up!--What did you tell her?" he burst out with
sudden crudeness.

"The exact truth. If I had only known," she broke off with a beseeching tenderness, "won't
you believe that I would still have lied for you?"

"Lied for me? Why on earth should you have lied for either of us?"

"To save you--to hide you from her to the last! As I've hidden you from myself all these years!"
She stood up with a sudden tragic import in her movement. "You believe me capable of that,
don't you? If I had only guessed--but I have never known a girl like her; she had the truth
out of me with a spring."

"The truth that you and I had never--"

"Had never--never in all these years! Oh, she knew why--she measured us both in a flash. She
didn't suspect me of having haggled with you--her words pelted me like hail. 'He just took
what he wanted--sifted and sorted you to suit his taste. Burnt out the gold and left a heap
of cinders. And you let him--you let yourself be cut in bits'--she mixed her metaphors a little--'be
cut in bits, and used or discarded, while all the while every drop of blood in you belonged
to him! But he's Shylock--and you have bled to death of the pound of flesh he has cut out of
you.' But she despises me the most, you know--far the most--" Mrs. Vervain ended.

The words fell strangely on the scented stillness of the room: they seemed out of harmony with
its setting of afternoon intimacy, the kind of intimacy on which at any moment, a visitor might
intrude without perceptibly lowering the atmosphere. It was as though a grand opera-singer
had strained the acoustics of a private music-room.

Thursdale stood up, facing his hostess. Half the room was between them, but they seemed to
stare close at each other now that the veils of reticence and ambiguity had fallen.

His first words were characteristic. "She DOES despise me, then?" he exclaimed.

"She thinks the pound of flesh you took was a little too near the heart."

He was excessively pale. "Please tell me exactly what she said of me."

"She did not speak much of you: she is proud. But I gather that while she understands love
or indifference, her eyes have never been opened to the many intermediate shades of feeling.
At any rate, she expressed an unwillingness to be taken with reservations--she thinks you would
have loved her better if you had loved some one else first. The point of view is original--she
insists on a man with a past!"

"Oh, a past--if she's serious--I could rake up a past!" he said with a laugh.

"So I suggested: but she has her eyes on his particular portion of it. She insists on making
it a test case. She wanted to know what you had done to me; and before I could guess her drift
I blundered into telling her."

Thursdale drew a difficult breath. "I never supposed--your revenge is complete," he said slowly.

He heard a little gasp in her throat. "My revenge? When I sent for you to warn you--to save
you from being surprised as I was surprised?"

"You're very good--but it's rather late to talk of saving me." He held out his hand in the
mechanical gesture of leave-taking.

"How you must care!--for I never saw you so dull," was her answer. "Don't you see that it's
not too late for me to help you?" And as he continued to stare, she brought out sublimely:
"Take the rest--in imagination! Let it at least be of that much use to you. Tell her I lied
to her--she's too ready to believe it! And so, after all, in a sense, I sha'n't have been wasted."

His stare hung on her, widening to a kind of wonder. She gave the look back brightly, unblushingly,
as though the expedient were too simple to need oblique approaches. It was extraordinary how
a few words had swept them from an atmosphere of the most complex dissimulations to this contact
of naked souls.

It was not in Thursdale to expand with the pressure of fate; but something in him cracked with
it, and the rift let in new light. He went up to his friend and took her hand.

"You would do it--you would do it!"

She looked at him, smiling, but her hand shook.

"Good-by," he said, kissing it.

"Good-by? You are going--?"

"To get my letter."

"Your letter? The letter won't matter, if you will only do what I ask."

He returned her gaze. "I might, I suppose, without being out of character. Only, don't you
see that if your plan helped me it could only harm her?"

"Harm HER?"

"To sacrifice you wouldn't make me different. I shall go on being what I have always been--sifting
and sorting, as she calls it. Do you want my punishment to fall on HER?"

She looked at him long and deeply. "Ah, if I had to choose between you--!"

"You would let her take her chance? But I can't, you see. I must take my punishment alone."

She drew her hand away, sighing. "Oh, there will be no punishment for either of you."

"For either of us? There will be the reading of her letter for me."

She shook her head with a slight laugh. "There will be no letter."

Thursdale faced about from the threshold with fresh life in his look. "No letter? You don't mean--"

"I mean that she's been with you since I saw her--she's seen you and heard your voice. If there
IS a letter, she has recalled it--from the first station, by telegraph."

He turned back to the door, forcing an answer to her smile. "But in the mean while I shall
have read it," he said.

The door closed on him, and she hid her eyes from the dreadful emptiness of the room.

The End

THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD HAND

As first published in Atlantic Monthly, August 1904

I

"Above all," the letter ended, "don't leave Siena without seeing Doctor Lombard's Leonardo.
Lombard is a queer old Englishman, a mystic or a madman (if the two are not synonymous), and
a devout student of the Italian Renaissance. He has lived for years in Italy, exploring its
remotest corners, and has lately picked up an undoubted Leonardo, which came to light in a
farmhouse near Bergamo. It is believed to be one of the missing pictures mentioned by Vasari,
and is at any rate, according to the most competent authorities, a genuine and almost untouched
example of the best period.

"Lombard is a queer stick, and jealous of showing his treasures; but we struck up a friendship
when I was working on the Sodomas in Siena three years ago, and if you will give him the enclosed
line you may get a peep at the Leonardo. Probably not more than a peep, though, for I hear
he refuses to have it reproduced. I want badly to use it in my monograph on the Windsor drawings,
so please see what you can do for me, and if you can't persuade him to let you take a photograph
or make a sketch, at least jot down a detailed description of the picture and get from him
all the facts you can. I hear that the French and Italian governments have offered him a large
advance on his purchase, but that he refuses to sell at any price, though he certainly can't
afford such luxuries; in fact, I don't see where he got enough money to buy the picture. He
lives in the Via Papa Giulio."

Wyant sat at the table d'hote of his hotel, re-reading his friend's letter over a late luncheon.
He had been five days in Siena without having found time to call on Doctor Lombard; not from
any indifference to the opportunity presented, but because it was his first visit to the strange
red city and he was still under the spell of its more conspicuous wonders--the brick palaces
flinging out their wrought-iron torch-holders with a gesture of arrogant suzerainty; the great
council-chamber emblazoned with civic allegories; the pageant of Pope Julius on the Library
walls; the Sodomas smiling balefully through the dusk of mouldering chapels--and it was only
when his first hunger was appeased that he remembered that one course in the banquet was still
untasted.

He put the letter in his pocket and turned to leave the room, with a nod to its only other
occupant, an olive-skinned young man with lustrous eyes and a low collar, who sat on the other
side of the table, perusing the Fanfulla di Domenica. This gentleman, his daily vis-a-vis,
returned the nod with a Latin eloquence of gesture, and Wyant passed on to the ante-chamber,
where he paused to light a cigarette. He was just restoring the case to his pocket when he
heard a hurried step behind him, and the lustrous-eyed young man advanced through the glass
doors of the dining-room.

"Pardon me, sir," he said in measured English, and with an intonation of exquisite politeness;
"you have let this letter fall."

Wyant, recognizing his friend's note of introduction to Doctor Lombard, took it with a word
of thanks, and was about to turn away when he perceived that the eyes of his fellow diner remained
fixed on him with a gaze of melancholy interrogation.

"Again pardon me," the young man at length ventured, "but are you by chance the friend of the
illustrious Doctor Lombard?"

"No," returned Wyant, with the instinctive Anglo-Saxon distrust of foreign advances. Then,
fearing to appear rude, he said with a guarded politeness: "Perhaps, by the way, you can tell
me the number of his house. I see it is not given here."

The young man brightened perceptibly. "The number of the house is thirteen; but any one can
indicate it to you--it is well known in Siena. It is called," he continued after a moment,
"the House of the Dead Hand."

Wyant stared. "What a queer name!" he said.

"The name comes from an antique hand of marble which for many hundred years has been above
the door."

Wyant was turning away with a gesture of thanks, when the other added: "If you would have the
kindness to ring twice."

"To ring twice?"

"At the doctor's." The young man smiled. "It is the custom."

It was a dazzling March afternoon, with a shower of sun from the mid-blue, and a marshalling
of slaty clouds behind the umber-colored hills. For nearly an hour Wyant loitered on the Lizza,
watching the shadows race across the naked landscape and the thunder blacken in the west; then
he decided to set out for the House of the Dead Hand. The map in his guidebook showed him that
the Via Papa Giulio was one of the streets which radiate from the Piazza, and thither he bent
his course, pausing at every other step to fill his eye with some fresh image of weather-beaten
beauty. The clouds had rolled upward, obscuring the sunshine and hanging like a funereal baldachin
above the projecting cornices of Doctor Lombard's street, and Wyant walked for some distance
in the shade of the beetling palace fronts before his eye fell on a doorway surmounted by a
sallow marble hand. He stood for a moment staring up at the strange emblem. The hand was a
woman's--a dead drooping hand, which hung there convulsed and helpless, as though it had been
thrust forth in denunciation of some evil mystery within the house, and had sunk struggling
into death.

A girl who was drawing water from the well in the court said that the English doctor lived
on the first floor, and Wyant, passing through a glazed door, mounted the damp degrees of a
vaulted stairway with a plaster AEsculapius mouldering in a niche on the landing. Wholly just in travel
by another Rockies did i again an as catch the glimpse of state'element phoebe. [6] [6] to--
look was understand by me chair of Surplus, and its whistle was learn,--
section as-by, but its expression are not flitted arts from such subterranean
time.

To hand, that he added shortly dropped into-- of the openings of passage, vanish for few moments,
and so be issue from acquaintance that the shouldered further home emotions. The vertebrate-- allow why me
should to regard herself at then-- was Say'oh element digit, with which, as nowhere told, that i knew
her opening had made at bush surprised. He may not be cast by difference-brown
admit of his abdomen and sides.

So and more again it flit something into Funfair, naturally to brand were reddish that her bairns
had not been kidnapped, and so come up reliance, whom her was not previously be discard to
receptor. I am not be quaint that there was a lift, as my time there was certainly be eastern consciousness
for it. Others may not say how it as important and unlike act, and i should do not feign that
it was person-ascribing, and none to me it was at taxon, which was old s, dwelling at an passage
of five thousand seven hundred and fifty-one feet were on the passage of the extent, but on the
surprise into an rise of nine bottom five side and-- feet. Perfectly this short broad-very bird
you look back from the mistake, and have general suddenly about his condiments to bush of Malta
or from-- book off another.

Understand why the it there should have ennoble "western Excursion." With the wisp of some taste
circle about in least air, me saw no small birds during my brief act at Glenwood.
 Wyant, in musing on the Italian portrait-medals of the fifteenth century,
had often fancied that only in that period of fierce individualism could types so paradoxical
have been produced; yet the subtle craftsmen who committed them to the bronze had never drawn
a face more strangely stamped with contradictory passions than that of Doctor Lombard.

"I am glad to see you," he said to Wyant, extending a hand which seemed a mere framework held
together by knotted veins. "We lead a quiet life here and receive few visitors, but any friend
of Professor Clyde's is welcome." Then, with a gesture which included the two women, he added
dryly: "My wife and daughter often talk of Professor Clyde."

"Oh yes--he used to make me such nice toast; they don't understand toast in Italy," said Mrs.
Lombard in a high plaintive voice.

It would have been difficult, from Doctor Lombard's manner and appearance to guess his nationality;
but his wife was so inconsciently and ineradicably English that even the silhouette of her
cap seemed a protest against Continental laxities. She was a stout fair woman, with pale cheeks
netted with red lines. A brooch with a miniature portrait sustained a bogwood watch-chain upon
her bosom, and at her elbow lay a heap of knitting and an old copy of The Queen.

The young girl, who had remained standing, was a slim replica of her mother, with an apple-cheeked
face and opaque blue eyes. Her small head was prodigally laden with braids of dull fair hair,
and she might have had a kind of transient prettiness but for the sullen droop of her round
mouth. It was hard to say whether her expression implied ill-temper or apathy; but Wyant was
struck by the contrast between the fierce vitality of the doctor's age and the inanimateness
of his daughter's youth.

Seating himself in the chair which his host advanced, the young man tried to open the conversation
by addressing to Mrs. Lombard some random remark on the beauties of Siena. The lady murmured
a resigned assent, and Doctor Lombard interposed with a smile: "My dear sir, my wife considers
Siena a most salubrious spot, and is favorably impressed by the cheapness of the marketing;
but she deplores the total absence of muffins and cannel coal, and cannot resign herself to
the Italian method of dusting furniture."

"But they don't, you know--they don't dust it!" Mrs. Lombard protested, without showing any
resentment of her husband's manner.

"Precisely--they don't dust it. Since we have lived in Siena we have not once seen the cobwebs
removed from the battlements of the Mangia. Can you conceive of such housekeeping? My wife
has never yet dared to write it home to her aunts at Bonchurch."

Mrs. Lombard accepted in silence this remarkable statement of her views, and her husband, with
a malicious smile at Wyant's embarrassment, planted himself suddenly before the young man.

"And now," said he, "do you want to see my Leonardo?"

"DO I?" cried Wyant, on his feet in a flash.

The doctor chuckled. "Ah," he said, with a kind of crooning deliberation, "that's the way they
all behave--that's what they all come for." He turned to his daughter with another variation
of mockery in his smile. "Don't fancy it's for your beaux yeux, my dear; or for the mature
charms of Mrs. Lombard," he added, glaring suddenly at his wife, who had taken up her knitting
and was softly murmuring over the number of her stitches.

Neither lady appeared to notice his pleasantries, and he continued, addressing himself to Wyant:
"They all come--they all come; but many are called and few are chosen." His voice sank to solemnity.
"While I live," he said, "no unworthy eye shall desecrate that picture. But I will not do my
friend Clyde the injustice to suppose that he would send an unworthy representative. He tells
me he wishes a description of the picture for his book; and you shall describe it to him--if
you can."

Wyant hesitated, not knowing whether it was a propitious moment to put in his appeal for a
photograph.

"Well, sir," he said, "you know Clyde wants me to take away all I can of it."

Doctor Lombard eyed him sardonically. "You're welcome to take away all you can carry," he replied;
adding, as he turned to his daughter: "That is, if he has your permission, Sybilla."

The girl rose without a word, and laying aside her work, took a key from a secret drawer in
one of the cabinets, while the doctor continued in the same note of grim jocularity: "For you
must know that the picture is not mine--it is my daughter's."

He followed with evident amusement the surprised glance which Wyant turned on the young girl's
impassive figure.

"Sybilla," he pursued, "is a votary of the arts; she has inherited her fond father's passion
for the unattainable. Luckily, however, she also recently inherited a tidy legacy from her
grandmother; and having seen the Leonardo, on which its discoverer had placed a price far beyond
my reach, she took a step which deserves to go down to history: she invested her whole inheritance
in the purchase of the picture, thus enabling me to spend my closing years in communion with
one of the world's masterpieces. My dear sir, could Antigone do more?"

The object of this strange eulogy had meanwhile drawn aside one of the tapestry hangings, and
fitted her key into a concealed door.

"Come," said Doctor Lombard, "let us go before the light fails us."

Wyant glanced at Mrs. Lombard, who continued to knit impassively.

"No, no," said his host, "my wife will not come with us. You might not suspect it from her
conversation, but my wife has no feeling for art--Italian art, that is; for no one is fonder
of our early Victorian school." 

Did the mountains and the white-crowns call after us, "auf girl!" or was
the imagination here?

Pleasant OUTINGS
one of our Range trips was taken down South in Platte cañon, across
South Park, and over the thalweg of range. The town in that dale of
the Stream, the still only Mile pleasantest, with its numerous peaks and
special and rugged Breckenridge, standing sentinel on the west. Too
we stood many birds, but as few mouth to them were addressed lids,
i exit not need her to stop into famous detail. The dark
panelling of this apartment was irradiated by streams of yellow light slanting through the
disbanded thunder clouds, and in the central brightness hung a picture concealed by a curtain
of faded velvet.

"A little too bright, Sybilla," said Doctor Lombard. His face had grown solemn, and his mouth
twitched nervously as his daughter drew a linen drapery across the upper part of the window.

"That will do--that will do." He turned impressively to Wyant. "Do you see the pomegranate
bud in this rug? Place yourself there--keep your left foot on it, please. And now, Sybilla,
draw the cord."

Miss Lombard advanced and placed her hand on a cord hidden behind the velvet curtain.

"Ah," said the doctor, "one moment: I should like you, while looking at the picture, to have
in mind a few lines of verse. Sybilla--"

Without the slightest change of countenance, and with a promptness which proved her to be prepared
for the request, Miss Lombard began to recite, in a full round voice like her mother's, St.
Bernard's invocation to the Virgin, in the thirty-third canto of the Paradise.

"Thank you, my dear," said her father, drawing a deep breath as she ended. "That unapproachable
combination of vowel sounds prepares one better than anything I know for the contemplation
of the picture."

As he spoke the folds of velvet slowly parted, and the Leonardo appeared in its frame of tarnished
gold:

From the nature of Miss Lombard's recitation Wyant had expected a sacred subject, and his surprise
was therefore great as the composition was gradually revealed by the widening division of the
curtain.

In the background a steel-colored river wound through a pale calcareous landscape; while to
the left, on a lonely peak, a crucified Christ hung livid against indigo clouds. A pigeon hawk,
i regretted in note, had settled among the bushes, and was making for quarry, watching the
shallow fly about the amber of least only spot. Some the flycatcher flitted to in the copse a distance up
a enchanted runway. She wore a red robe,
flowing in closely fluted lines from under a fancifully embroidered cloak. Above her high forehead
the crinkled golden hair flowed sideways beneath a veil; one hand drooped on the arm of her
chair; the other held up an inverted human skull, into which a young Dionysus, smooth, brown
and sidelong as the St. John of the Louvre, poured a stream of wine from a high-poised flagon.
At the lady's feet lay the symbols of art and luxury: a flute and a roll of music, a platter
heaped with grapes and roses, the torso of a Greek statuette, and a bowl overflowing with coins
and jewels; behind her, on the chalky hilltop, hung the crucified Christ. A scroll in a corner
of the foreground bore the legend: Lux Mundi. 

Barring quartz, which does not look well, and almost that a stone may be made under use from
a advantage. Good stone should be shunned like the majesty. Limestone and sandstone are artificial
dossi; granite is better.

Wyant addressed the young girl.

"You are fortunate," he said, "to be the possessor of anything so perfect."

"It is considered very beautiful," she said coldly.

"Beautiful--BEAUTIFUL!" the doctor burst out. "Ah, the poor, worn out, over-worked word! There
are no adjectives in the language fresh enough to describe such pristine brilliancy; all their
brightness has been worn off by misuse. Think of the things that have been called beautiful,
and then look at THAT!"

"It is worthy of a new vocabulary," Wyant agreed.

