Since therefore not only our domestic peace and quiet, and the welfare of our children, but
even the very safety of our lives, reputations, and fortunes have so great a dependence upon
the choice of our servants, I think it would well become the wisdom of the nation to make some
provision in so important an affair. But in the meantime, and, perhaps, to better purpose,
it were to be wished, that the children of both sexes, entertained in the parish charity-schools,
were bred up in such a manner as would give them a teachable disposition, and qualify them
to learn whatever is required in any sort of service. For instance, they should be taught to
read and write, to know somewhat in casting accounts, to understand the principles of religion,
to practise cleanliness, to get a spirit of honesty, industry, and thrift, and be severely
punished for every neglect in any of these particulars. For, it is the misfortune of mankind,
that if they are not used to be taught in their early childhood, whereby to acquire what I
call a teachable disposition, they cannot, without great difficulty, learn the easiest thing
in the course of their lives, but are always awkward and unhandy; their minds, as well as bodies,
for want of early practice, growing stiff and unmanageable, as we observe in the sort of gentlemen,
who, kept from school by the indulgence of their parents but a few years, are never able to
recover the time they have lost, and grow up in ignorance and all manner of vice, whereof we
have too many examples all over the nation. But to return to what I was saying: If these charity
children were trained up in the manner I mentioned, and then bound apprentices in the families
of gentlemen and citizens, (for which a late law giveth great encouragement) being accustomed
from their first entrance to be always learning some useful thing, [they] would learn, in a
month, more than another, without those advantages, can do in a year; and, in the meantime,
be very useful in a family, as far as their age and strength would allow. And when such children
come to years of discretion, they will probably be a useful example to their fellow-servants,
at least they will prove a strong check upon the rest; for, I suppose, everybody will allow,
that one good, honest, diligent servant in a house may prevent abundance of mischief in the family.

These are the reasons for which I urge this matter so strongly, and I hope those who listen
to me will consider them.

I shall now say something about that great number of poor, who, under the name of common beggars,
infest our streets, and fill our ears with their continual cries, and craving importunity.
This I shall venture to call an unnecessary evil, brought upon us for the gross neglect, and
want of proper management, in those whose duty it is to prevent it. But before I proceed farther,
let me humbly presume to vindicate the justice and mercy of God and His dealings with mankind.
Upon this particular He hath not dealt so hardly with His creatures as some would imagine,
when they see so many miserable objects ready to perish for want: For it would infallibly be
found, upon strict enquiry, that there is hardly one in twenty of those miserable objects who
do not owe their present poverty to their own faults, to their present sloth and negligence,
to their indiscreet marriage without the least prospect of supporting a family, to their foolish
expensiveness, to their drunkenness, and other vices, by which they have squandered their gettings,
and contracted diseases in their old age. And, to speak freely, is it any way reasonable or
just, that those who have denied themselves many lawful satisfactions and conveniences of life,
from a principle of conscience, as well as prudence, that they might not be a burthen to the
public, should be charged with supporting others, who have brought themselves to less than
a morsel of bread by their idleness, extravagance, and vice? Yet such, and no other, are far
the greatest number not only in those who beg in our streets, but even of what we call poor
decayed housekeepers, whom we are apt to pity as real objects of charity, and distinguish them
from common beggars, although, in truth, they both owe their undoing to the same causes; only
the former is either too nicely bred to endure walking half naked in the streets, or too proud
to own their wants. For the artificer or other tradesman, who pleadeth he is grown too old
to work or look after business, and therefore expecteth assistance as a decayed housekeeper;
may we not ask him, why he did not take care, in his youth and strength of days, to make some
provision against old age, when he saw so many examples before him of people undone by their
idleness and vicious extravagance? And to go a little higher; whence cometh it that so many
citizens and shopkeepers, of the most creditable trade, who once made a good figure, go to
decay by their expensive pride and vanity, affecting to educate and dress their children above
their abilities, or the state of life they ought to expect?

However, since the best of us have too many infirmities to answer for, we ought not to be severe
upon those of others; and therefore if our brother, through grief, or sickness, or other incapacity,
is not in a condition to preserve his being, we ought to support him to the best of our power,
without reflecting over seriously on the causes that brought him to his misery. But in order
to this, and to turn our charity into its proper channel, we ought to consider who and where
those objects are, whom it is chiefly incumbent upon us to support.

By the ancient law of this realm, still in force, every parish is obliged to maintain its own
poor, which although some may think to be not very equal, because many parishes are very rich,
and have few poor among them, and others the contrary; yet, I think, may be justly defended:
For as to remote country parishes in the desert part of the kingdom, the necessaries of life
are there so cheap, that the infirm poor may be provided for with little burden to the inhabitants.
But in what I am going to say, I shall confine myself only to this city, where we are overrun
not only with our own poor, but with a far greater number from every part of the nation. Now,
I say, this evil of being encumbered with so many foreign beggars, who have not the least title
to our charity, and whom it is impossible for us to support, may be easily remedied, if the
government of this city, in conjunction with the clergy and parish officers, would think it
worth their care; and I am sure few things deserve it better. For, if every parish would take
a list of those begging poor which properly belong to it, and compel each of them to wear a
badge, marked and numbered, so as to be seen and known by all they meet, and confine them to
beg within the limits of their own parish, severely punishing them when they offend, and driving
out all interlopers from other parishes, we could then make a computation of their numbers;
and the strollers from the country being driven away, the remainder would not be too many for
the charity of those who pass by to maintain; neither would any beggar, although confined to
his own parish, be hindered from receiving the charity of the whole town; because, in this
case, those well-disposed persons who walk the streets will give their charity to such whom
they think proper objects, wherever they meet them, provided they are found in their own parishes,
and wearing their badges of distinction. And, as to those parishes which bordered upon the
skirts and suburbs of the town, where country strollers are used to harbour themselves, they
must be forced to go back to their homes, when they find nobody to relieve them, because they
want that mark which only gives them licence to beg. Upon this point, it were to be wished,
that inferior parish officers had better encouragement given them to perform their duty in
driving away all beggars who do not belong to the parish, instead of conniving at them, as
it is said they do for some small contribution: For the whole city would save much more by
ridding themselves of many hundred beggars, than they would lose by giving parish officers
a reasonable support.

It should seem a strange, unaccountable thing, that those who have probably been reduced to
want by riot, lewdness, and idleness, although they have assurance enough to beg alms publicly
from all they meet, should yet be too proud to wear the parish badge, which would turn so much
to their own advantage, by ridding them of such great numbers, who now intercept the greatest
part of what belongeth to them: Yet it is certain, that there are very many who publicly declare
they will never wear those badges, and many others who either hide or throw them away: But
the remedy for this is very short, easy, and just, by trying them like vagabonds and sturdy
beggars, and forcibly driving them out of the town.

Therefore, as soon as this expedient of wearing badges shall be put in practice, I do earnestly
exhort all those who hear me, never to give their alms to any public beggar who doth not fully
comply with this order, by which our number of poor will be so reduced, that it will be much
easier to provide for the rest. Our shop-doors will be no longer crowded with so many thieves
and pickpockets, in beggars' habits, nor our streets so dangerous to those who are forced to
walk in the night.

Thus I have, with great freedom, delivered my thoughts upon this subject, which so nearly concerneth
us. It is certainly a bad scheme, to any Christian country, which God hath blessed with fruitfulness,
and where the people enjoy the just rights and privileges of mankind, that there should be
any beggars at all. But, alas! among us, where the whole nation itself is almost reduced to
beggary by the disadvantages we lie under, and the hardships we are forced to bear; the laziness,
ignorance, thoughtlessness, squandering temper, slavish nature, and uncleanly manner of living
in the poor Popish natives, together with the cruel oppressions of their landlords, who delight
to see their vassals in the dust; I say, that, in such a nation, how can we otherwise expect
than to be over-run with objects of misery and want? Therefore, there can be no other method
to free this city from so intolerable a grievance, than by endeavouring, as far as in us lies,
that the burthen may be more equally divided, by contributing to maintain our own poor, and
forcing the strollers and vagabonds to return to their several homes in the country, there
to smite the conscience of those oppressors, who first stripped them of all their substance.

I might here, if the time would permit, offer many arguments to persuade to works of charity;
but you hear them so often from the pulpit, that I am willing to hope you may not now want
them. Besides, my present design was only to shew where your alms would be best bestowed, to
the honour of God, your own ease and advantage, the service of your country, and the benefit
of the poor. I desire you will all weigh and consider what I have spoken, and, according to
your several stations and abilities, endeavour to put it in practice; and God give you good
success. To Whom, with the Son and Holy Ghost, be all honour, &c.

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, &c.

A SERMON UPON SLEEPING IN CHURCH.

ACTS, CHAP. XX. VER. 9.

"And there sat in a window a certain young man, named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep;
and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft,
and was taken up dead."

I have chosen these words with design, if possible, to disturb some part in this audience of
half an hour's sleep, for the convenience and exercise whereof this place, at this season of
the day, is very much celebrated.

There is indeed one mortal disadvantage to which all preaching is subject; that those who,
by the wickedness of their lives, stand in greatest need, have usually the smallest share;
for either they are absent upon the account of idleness, or spleen, or hatred to religion,
or in order to doze away the intemperance of the week; or, if they do come, they are sure to
employ their minds rather any other way, than regarding or attending to the business of the place.

The accident which happened to this young man in the text, hath not been sufficient to discourage
his successors: But because the preachers now in the world, however they may exceed St Paul
in the art of setting men to sleep, do extremely fall short of him in the working of miracles;
therefore men are become so cautious as to choose more safe and convenient stations and postures
for taking their repose, without hazard of their persons; and, upon the whole matter, choose
rather to trust their destruction to a miracle, than their safety. However, this being not
the only way by which the lukewarm Christians and scorners of the age discover their neglect
and contempt of preaching, I shall enter expressly into consideration of this matter, and order
my discourse in the following method:

First: I shall produce several instances to shew the great neglect of preaching now amongst us.

Secondly: I shall reckon up some of the usual quarrels men have against preaching.

Thirdly: I shall set forth the great evil of this neglect and contempt of preaching, and discover
the real causes from whence it proceedeth.

Lastly: I shall offer some remedies against this great and spreading evil.

First: I shall produce certain instances to shew the great neglect of preaching now among us.

These may be reduced under two heads. First, men's absence from the service of the Church;
and secondly, their misbehaviour when they are here.

The first instance of men's neglect, is in their frequent absence from the church.

There is no excuse so trivial, that will not pass upon some men's consciences to excuse their
attendance at the public worship of God. Some are so unfortunate as to be always indisposed
on the Lord's day, and think nothing so unwholesome as the air of a church. Others have their
affairs so oddly contrived, as to be always unluckily prevented by business. With some it is
a great mark of wit, and deep understanding, to stay at home on Sundays. Others again discover
strange fits of laziness, that seize them, particularly on that day, and confine them to their
beds. Others are absent out of mere contempt of religion. And, lastly, there are not a few
who look upon it as a day of rest, and therefore claim the privilege of their cattle, to keep
the Sabbath by eating, drinking, and sleeping, after the toil and labour of the week. Now in
all this the worst circumstance is, that these persons are such whose companies are most required,
and who stand most in need of a physician.

Secondly: Men's great neglect and contempt of preaching, appear by their misbehaviour when
at church.

If the audience were to be ranked under several heads according to their behaviour, when the
word of God is delivered, how small a number would appear of those who receive it as they ought?
How much of the seed then sown would be found to fall by the way-side, upon stony ground or
among thorns? And how little good ground would there be to take it? A preacher cannot look
round from the pulpit, without observing, that some are in a perpetual whisper, and, by their
air and gesture, give occasion to suspect, that they are in those very minutes defaming their
neighbour. Others have their eyes and imagination constantly engaged in such a circle of objects,
perhaps to gratify the most unwarrantable desires, that they never once attend to the business
of the place; the sound of the preacher's words doth not so much as once interrupt them. Some
have their minds wandering among idle, worldly, or vicious thoughts. Some lie at catch to ridicule
whatever they hear, and with much wit and humour provide a stock of laughter, by furnishing
themselves from the pulpit. But, of all misbehaviour, none is comparable to that of those who
come here to sleep; opium is not so stupefying to many persons as an afternoon sermon. Perpetual
custom hath so brought it about, that the words, of whatever preacher, become only a sort of
uniform sound at a distance, than which nothing is more effectual to lull the senses. For,
that it is the very sound of the sermon which bindeth up their faculties, is manifest from
hence, because they all awake so very regularly as soon as it ceaseth, and with much devotion
receive the blessing, dozed and besotted with indecencies I am ashamed to repeat.

I proceed, Secondly, to reckon up some of the usual quarrels men have against preaching, and
to shew the unreasonableness of them.

Such unwarrantable demeanour as I have described, among Christians, in the house of God, in
a solemn assembly, while their faith and duty are explained and delivered, have put those who
are guilty upon inventing some excuses to extenuate their fault: This they do by turning the
blame either upon the particular preacher, or upon preaching in general. First, they object
against the particular preacher; his manner, his delivery, his voice are disagreeable, his
style and expression are flat and low; sometimes improper and absurd; the matter is heavy,
trivial and insipid; sometimes despicable, and perfectly ridiculous; or else, on the other
side, he runs up into unintelligible speculation, empty notions, and abstracted flights, all
clad in words above usual understandings.

Secondly, They object against preaching in general; it is a perfect road of talk; they know
already whatever can be said; they have heard the same an hundred times over. They quarrel
that preachers do not relieve an old beaten subject with wit and invention; and that now the
art is lost of moving men's passions, so common among the ancient orators of Greece and Rome.
These, and the like objections, are frequently in the mouths of men who despise the "foolishness
of preaching." But let us examine the reasonableness of them.

The doctrine delivered by all preachers is the same: "So we preach, and so ye believe:" But
the manner of delivering is suited to the skill and abilities of each, which differ in preachers
just as in the rest of mankind. However, in personal dislikes of a particular preacher, are
these men sure they are always in the right? Do they consider how mixed a thing is every audience,
whose taste and judgment differ, perhaps, every day, not only from each other, but themselves?
And how to calculate a discourse, that shall exactly suit them all, is beyond the force and
reach of human reason, knowledge, or invention. Wit and eloquence are shining qualities, that
God hath imparted, in great degrees, to very few, nor any more to be expected, in the generality
of any rank among men, than riches and honour. But further: If preaching in general be all
old and beaten, and that they are already so well acquainted with it, more shame and guilt
to them who so little edify by it. But these men, whose ears are so delicate as not to endure
a plain discourse of religion, who expect a constant supply of wit and eloquence on a subject
handled so many thousand times; what will they say when we turn the objection upon themselves,
who, with all the rude and profane liberty of discourse they take, upon so many thousand subjects,
are so dull as to furnish nothing but tedious repetitions, and little paltry, nauseous common-places,
so vulgar, so worn, or so obvious, as, upon any other occasion, but that of advancing vice,
would be hooted off the stage? Nor, lastly, are preachers justly blamed for neglecting human
oratory to move the passions, which is not the business of a Christian orator, whose office
it is only to work upon faith and reason. All other eloquence hath been a perfect cheat, to
stir up men's passions against truth and justice, for the service of a faction, to put false
colours upon things, and by an amusement of agreeable words, make the worse reason appear to
be the better. This is certainly not to be allowed in Christian eloquence, and, therefore,
St Paul took quite the other course; he "came not with excellency of words, or enticing speech
of men's wisdom, but in plain evidence of the Spirit and power." And perhaps it was for that
reason the young man Eutychus, used to the Grecian eloquence, grew tired and fell so fast asleep.

I go on, Thirdly, to set forth the great evil of this neglect and scorn of preaching, and to
discover the real causes from whence it proceedeth. Ad Petersb librarian. Acad of Sciences.

In supplement to a foreword by Anton Schiefner and remarks by Reinhold
Koehler and Anton Schiefner.

Hall, announcing dwelling of the orphanage.

1869th Preface.

In the third capacity of Children's and Household Tales Wilhelm Grimm on sheet 353 of the version
of 1856 vigilance to it until the time ehstnischen renowned fairy tales, and S. 385 encompassing the
first of Faehlmann in 1842 in the first capacity of the discussions the wise humanity ehstnischen Dorpat
released graceful verse and Koit Ämmarik highlighted. In more comprehensive pattern, the last
cited subsequent (1854) by Dr. = = Friedrich Kreutzwald granted me and from me in the Bulletin of
the St. Petersburg Academy = T. XII .= 3, 4 (also in the Mélanges Russes = = = .= T. II p.
409) in the term paper to ehstnischen mythology was "printed. Ibid Even I have furthermore the likelihood
of scrounging this close of a neighboring territory attention. are in such
borrowings, the Estonians not poorer than other countries, and it devotes
a peculiar concern, more or advised less in another location renowned
compounds in their ehstnischen uniforms.

Make it A entire number of solely ethnographic and chronicled inquiries to the concern of their
Content.

The translator has regarded it befitting to issue out so numerous characteristics which the each
article with that of Dr. = = Kreutzwald commenced verse "Kalewipoëg" widespread have. Some things,
although, from not only amidst the Estonians in circulation article first in the saga and shifted
them into the epic pieces of music, but else boasts us very reliably got finds altscandinavischer
myths dar. Have I in 1860 on the event the gathering of the Kalewipoëg (II Bulletin as = = = =
Mélanges Russes p. 273-297 = B = II = p. 126-161) sharp out how the Kalewipoëg numerous echoes
of the vintage adoration of Thor present, it can be the identical with the right of specific assemblage,
offered in Fairy tales say. Is taken into account except that of Mr. Leo S. 2 overhead demonstration,
p. 113 Thunderer belonging to the crop of rowan, and furthermore
p. 137, the rudder of the identical Wood.

See furthermore sheet 18 on the hill ash happening as the Thunderer holy man Hardt Germanic Myths
p. 13 f. When, in 1855 about the content of the myths Finnish fairy
tale (= Bullet.

Philol hist T. XII .= 24) succinctly described, were renowned by the ehstnischen fairy tale,
very couple of, and all the wealthy publications of the Russian fairy tale, from us in the years
of Afanasyev 1855-1863 assemblage released in eight volumes devotes an concept was only a couple
of trials accessible. likely not the case a methodical study of the aforementioned
assemblage solely Finnish fairy tales in a distinct lightweight emerge,
but the genuine ehstnischen can be assessed. Apart from the W. Grimm
cited designated collections are distinct tale ehstnische been released,
especially in the vintages 1846, 1848, 1849, 1852 and 1858 of the
"domestic" in Illustrirten reval between 1855 and 1856 almanac and
in another location, a equitably comprehensive records the identical
will be in = = Dr. Winkelmann's now being published Livonia Bibliotheca
historica = = See p. 39 ff.

Most especially are those of the other furthermore to the publications of Estonians warranted two
men in Tallinn and Friedrich Heinrich Neus Kreutzwald in Werro broadcast Fairy tales. The last cited of
the two men furthermore obtained by the Finnish Literature Society topic in Helsingfors the honorable alignment,
a comprehensive assemblage of ehstnischen fairy tale.


A third cause of the great neglect and scorn of preaching, ariseth from the practice of men
who set up to decry and disparage religion; these, being zealous to promote infidelity and
vice, learn a rote of buffoonery that serveth all occasions, and refutes the strongest arguments
for piety and good manners. These have a set of ridicule calculated for all sermons, and all
preachers, and can be extreme witty as often as they please upon the same fund.

Let me now, in the last place, offer some remedies against this great evil.

It will be one remedy against the contempt of preaching, rightly to consider the end for which
it was designed. There are many who place abundance of merit in going to church, although it
be with no other prospect but that of being well entertained, wherein if they happen to fail,
they return wholly disappointed. Hence it is become an impertinent vein among people of all
sorts to hunt after what they call a good sermon, as if it were a matter of pastime and diversion.
Our business, alas! is quite another thing, either to learn, or, at least, be reminded of our
duty, to apply the doctrines delivered, compare the rules we hear with our lives and actions,
and find wherein we have transgressed. These are the dispositions men should bring into the
house of God, and then they will be little concerned about the preacher's wit or eloquence,
nor be curious to enquire out his faults and infirmities, but consider how to correct their own.

Another remedy against the contempt of preaching, is, that men would consider, whether it be
not reasonable to give more allowances for the different abilities of preachers than they usually
do; refinements of style, and flights of wit, as they are not properly the business of any
preacher, so they cannot possibly be the talents of all. In most other discourses, men are
satisfied with sober sense and plain reason; and, as understandings usually go, even that is
not over frequent. Then why they should be so over nice in expectation of eloquence,[2] where
it is neither necessary nor convenient, is hard to imagine.

[Footnote 2: Hawkesworth (1762 edit.) has "over nice and expecting for sense"; but both the
4to and the 8vo of 1764 agree with Scott as above. [T.S.]]

