Well, Little White Fox was skipping about here and there to see what he could see, and was
not paying much attention where he was going when, Ah-ne-ca! down he went! Down! Down! and
splash! right into the icy water! My! he was frightened! How was he ever to get out of that
place? Six feet of ice wall, straight as the sides of a house, was all about him. But what
was this he saw on one side. It seemed to be a sort of little shelf. And, yes sir! as Little
White Fox swam over to that side and began to climb up, his feet caught on a ledge, and before
he knew it he was sitting in as neat a little room as you ever saw, and all made out of ice!
walls, floor, and ceiling!

"Now I wonder who lives here," said Little White Fox to himself. "Whoever it is, I suppose
I shall have a great quarrel with him when he comes home."

But no one came, and very soon his coat was quite dry and he found himself very comfortable
in this strange little ice palace. But how was he ever to get out and go back to his mother
and friends?

Just when he was thinking about that, he saw the water get black all at once, and in another
moment he was looking right into the face of a stranger who had popped up out of the water,
as if by magic.

"Who are you?" asked Little White Fox, shaking all over with fright.

"I have many names." The stranger grinned so broadly Little White Fox quite lost his fear at
once. "Some call me Barred Seal," the stranger continued, "and some call me Ring Seal. Others
call me Rainbow Seal, and still others call me Northern Lights. You may call me what you like.
But say, there's room for us both up there, isn't there? I am tired!"

"But," said Little White Fox, when they were both comfortably seated, "you look very much like
Little Brown Seal."

"Yes," said the other, "he is my cousin, so is Spotted Seal and Oogrook, the big seal, and
Little Light Brown Seal, and goodness knows how many more! We are a large family. I am told
that we have cousins living down in the Aleutian Islands who are very aristocratic indeed.
They go by the name of Hair Seal. Why, their coats, I am told, are so valuable that Omnok,
the hunter, would risk his life to get one of them! For my part, I prefer this simple coat
which no man would steal, unless he needed it to make a pair of boots. But you must be hungry,
and so am I. Just wait a minute."

Master Barred Seal disappeared in the water, reappearing from time to time with a fish in his
mouth.

"Now," he said, when he had finished fishing, "we will have dinner." Before Little White Fox
was spread the most tempting array of fish he had ever seen.

"This is the finest home in the world," said Barred Seal proudly. "Your dinner comes right
to your front door. Look!"

Little White Fox looked, and sure enough, there in the water were plenty more fish swimming
round and round.

"But what if Omnok, the hunter, should find us here?" Little White Fox shivered suddenly.

"What if he should?" repeated the other. "There are four feet of solid ice between us and the
top. He will not come down in the water to get us, so what could he do?"

"But very soon, Mother tells me," said Little White Fox, "the ice will all melt, or the wind
will blow it out to sea."

"Oh, well, in that case," replied Barred Seal, smiling, "there is still the wild, free ocean
to live in as always."

"Not for me!" said Little White Fox, turning white in the face and losing his appetite all
at once. "How can I get out of here?"

"You don't want to go so soon," answered Barred Seal. "Stay with me awhile. I rather like you.
And, as you see, we have plenty of good fish to eat."

"I thank you," said Little White Fox very politely, "but I'd very much rather go back home."
And at that moment he had a frightful vision of all that ice going out, out to sea.

"Very well," said Barred Seal, "I'll go in the water and stand on my tail; then you can climb
out on my back. Only don't dig in your toe nails."

In another moment Little White Fox was out in the bright sunshine, and you may be very sure
he was glad to be there. "I guess the world was made about right," he said to himself. "And
I am glad the hills, the tundra, and my own little home are just as they are, and I am glad
I am Little White Fox."

CHAPTER VI

LITTLE WHITE FOX HELPS HIMSELF

Little White Fox was hungry again, and it was the hard, cold, winter time, when all of the
little folks of the tundra have to hunt far and wide for food. He had asked Tdariuk, the reindeer,
to invite him out to dinner. Tdariuk was very nice about it, but said he had only some lichens,
which men call reindeer moss, to eat. When Little White Fox tasted them, he said they were
not one bit good. The truth is they are very bitter, and taste good only to Reindeer and Caribou
folks.

So Little White Fox went scratching away over the tundra and hillsides to see what he could
find. He was half way up the side of Cape Prince of Wales Mountain when he came on the tracks
of a stranger. "He must have come down from the higher mountains," said Little White Fox to
himself. "I wonder who he is. I don't believe he is any bigger than I am, for his tracks are
very close together."

He followed the tracks, very curious to know who this newcomer might be. Pretty soon he came
to a tunnel right into the snow. There were several tracks in and out of this, so he could
not tell whether the stranger were at home or not. Little White Fox knew now that the other
fellow was not so large as he, for the tunnel was almost too small for him to enter. But he
gathered his coat close around him and crowded in. He rather hoped that he would not find the
stranger at home, but that the table would be set for dinner.

And that was just the way it was! Little White Fox knocked at the door, and when no one answered,
he walked right in. No,--the table wasn't set, but in the storeroom there was plenty of food.
Little White Fox did not make the least fuss but set the table himself.

Now you might think that Little White Fox would eat only fresh eggs and fish, but if you think
so you are mistaken. He likes berries and roots, and that is just what he had to eat that day,--blueberries
from the hillsides and nice juicy roots and bulbs from the tundra! My, they tasted good!

He had just finished eating when something disturbed him. He had been listening to the noise
the wind made blowing across the entrance to the tunnel. Now the wind didn't make any more
noise,--not so he could hear it, anyway. That meant that some one had entered the tunnel.

Now Little White Fox was not wishing to see any one just then. "Guess I'd better find the other
door to this house and go home," he said to himself. But there wasn't any other door. Little
White Fox wasn't afraid, but then,--he just humped himself all up in a corner and wished he
didn't have to meet the stranger, that was all.

Well, sir! he had to laugh when he saw the stranger come in at the door. He was the oddest
little fellow you ever saw! He looked just like Thunder, the big white rabbit, only his ears
were short, his coat was yellow, and he was ever so much smaller. Little White Fox knew who
he was right away, for he had heard his mother speak of the Lemming family. And this was one
of the Lemmings! There could be no doubt of it. And the Lemmings are great fighters, if they
happen to be in the mood for it. Why, they have been known to jump right into the ocean and
try to swim across it.

"Now I wonder what I'd better do," thought Little White Fox to himself. But just because he
couldn't think of anything at all to do, he did nothing. And that was the very wisest way to
behave just then. All bunched up the way he was, he looked very large and strong. The longer
Mr. Lemming looked at him, the more sure he became that Little White Fox was some relation
of his. And we must be very kind to all our relatives, especially when they are bigger than we are!

Mr. Lemming moved over to one side of the room as if to say, "You may go out if you like."

Little White Fox moved half way to the door and then stopped, which meant, "I'd like you to
move a little farther away." 

There was a constant glancing of shooting stars on white, swift sparklings
and trailings of luminous dust, and, if on the night, here and there
as the horizon a dim violet play of sheet-lightning.

Imagination grew a little delirious, and i would sometimes fancy as the terrible shape at the foot
of the mainmast moved to that seeking to high itself and approach me.
It was like being at the bottom of the sea, alive there, upon be
in this free, shelly, weed-smelling ship.



That night Mr. Lemming closed up the tunnel to his house and made a new one under a rock, where
he thought Little White Fox would not be able to find it.

Of course Little White Fox should have waited until Mr. Lemming came home, and then asked him
for something to eat. But, you know, he was very hungry, and besides he was only a little white
fox, after all.

CHAPTER VII

LITTLE WHITE BEAR AND LITTLE BLACK BEAR

Little White Bear stepped out from behind a great boulder that was black as black could be
against the whitest of all white worlds. And my! It was a lonesome world! His mother had left
him alone, years and years ago, it seemed to him, to find something to eat. At last he was
so lonesome he just had to get out into the sunshine and see if there was any one in all the
wide, white world who would play with a little white bear.

"I wonder! I do wonder if there is any one!" he said to himself.

"Chee! Chee!" said a very small voice right close to him. He looked and looked, and at last
he spied Little Snow Bunting balancing herself on a salmon-berry bush.

"What does she mean by that?" thought Little White Bear. "Does she want to play with me?" But
when he came closer to her, she said "Chee! Chee!" so loudly and saucily he felt almost sure
she didn't, and when she spread her snowy wings and flew far, far away, he was quite sure she
didn't.

"My! What a world!" said Little White Bear. "I wonder--" But just then he heard a strange sound,--crack--crack--crackety,
crackety, crack! What could it be? In just a moment Tdariuk, the reindeer, came trotting around
the point, and Little White Bear knew it was Tdariuk's heels he had heard cracking. But Tdariuk
didn't give him time to say a word. He just caught one whiff of bear smell, and away he went
faster than ever,--crack--crack--crackety, crackety, crackety! Crack! Crack!

Down by the ocean things were no better. When Little Brown Seal saw him coming, he tumbled
right into the ocean without so much as saying "How do you do."

Little White Bear looked this way and that, and suddenly he spied some little black things
going up and down, up and down, over a little snow hill. Sometimes there were four, sometimes
three, sometimes two, and sometimes none at all. "Must be Jim Raven and his crowd," said Little
White Bear. "Well, they won't get away from me! I'll just slip up to that little hill and then
jump right over it so quick they won't have time to fly away!" He slipped up very quietly,
Oh! just as quietly as any little bear could. He crept round this little hill and that little
salmon-berry bush until he was right under the snow hill. "Now," he said to himself, "Now's
the time!" He couldn't see the black things going up and down, but he knew they were there,
so he gave one big, big spring and then, "Oh! Oh! Ow! Wow! E-e-e! Let me go!" he cried, and
bounded away as fast as he could. What could have scratched him so? Where had Jim Raven and
his crowd gone? Pretty soon he looked around, and right there in the snow where he had jumped
was a little bear just about his own size and a great deal like him, but black as black could be!

"What'd you jump on my stomach for?" said the stranger. Then Little White Bear knew right away
what he had done. The black things he thought were Jim Raven and his crowd were not those people
at all, but they were Little Black Bear's feet sticking up over the hill, as he rolled around
on the snow, having a frolic all by himself.

"Well," said Little White Bear, "where did you come from?"

"Oh! My home is just a little way up in the hills," said Little Black Bear politely. "We have
a great many cousins in this cold country; there is Little Brown Bear and Big Barren Ground
Grizzly Bear, and I don't know how many more, but we seldom get to see any of our white cousins.
How are you? I am glad to see you."

"I think I shall be very fine when I get over my scratches," smiled Little White Bear. "You
must have very sharp claws."

"They are quite sharp," said Little Black Bear slowly. "I am sorry I scratched you. Let's find
something to play, and you will forget all about it."

"All right!" said Little White Bear gleefully, and away they went, looking for some adventure
in the great, white world.

CHAPTER VIII

TROUBLE FOR LITTLE WHITE BEAR

"Come on," cried Little White Bear, almost standing on his head in his eagerness to be at play
with this new friend.

"Let's go exploring," said Little Black Bear. "That's the most fun of all!"

"All right," shouted Little White Bear, turning a handspring. And away they went,--two little
bears out to see what they could find in the great, white world.

They went down by the lakes and saw where Widgeon had made her nests in the warm summer time;
they wandered over the hills and said "Woof Woof!" in the doorway to Little Mrs. White Fox's
home; they went here and there, but at last they came upon something really very strange.

"What can it be?" said Little White Bear, standing on one foot and looking very wise.

"What can it be!" said Little Black Bear, scratching his head. And what indeed could it be?
It was right down at the foot of the mountain. There was a big, black, square thing right in
the snow, and in the middle of that there was another little square that was brown. Did any
one in the wide world ever hear of finding such a strange thing in a great white wilderness?
There wasn't a square thing anywhere else on the whole tundra. Things were round and crooked
and made of little angles, but who ever saw a square thing in real tundra land?

The two little Bears walked round and round it and tried to think what it could be. At last
Little Black Bear put one foot on it very timidly. "There!" he said bravely, "I stepped on
it! Do you dare?"

"Of course I do!" said Little White Bear, walking right out on the big square. "See me!" he
shouted and went racing right across the thing. That is, he started across, but just when he
was on the little brown square, he felt his feet begin to sink. There was a rip--ripping of
something, and down he went, till he struck kerwhack! on something far below. He jumped to
his feet very quickly. Where was he? There were brown walls all about him, like the walls of
the cave where his home was. And look as he might, Little White Bear could see no way to get
out except to climb back up through the hole he had made when he fell in. And that was far,
far above his head. He could never get out that way. And what was worst of all, as he began
to look around, he was more and more sure of one dreadful thing. And that was that he was in
the house of Omnok the hunter. My! That was a terrible thought. But it was true! They had been
playing on Omnok's roof, and Little White Bear had fallen right through the window in the roof.
Omnok had made a curtain out of the coats of many eider ducks, and this was the brown square
that Little White Bear had started to run across.

Well, there wasn't a thing he could do. He just wandered round and round, but he couldn't find
the least little place where he could get out. "What a strange place to live!" he thought to
himself. "How does he ever get into it himself?"

But Little White Bear wasn't the least bit doubtful that Omnok would be able to get into his
house when he came home. And you may be very sure he wasn't a bit happy. It in moment that I fell overboard.
It is said that little speed of thought is best shown by dreams. I suppose my way of the backstay'relaxed
when the ship lay down; but, let the thing have happened how it would be, in a I was under water.
 "Who has stolen my 'pooksack'?" Omnok growled.
"Who has broken my window?"

How poor Little White Bear trembled. He crouched down under the bed just as far as he could.
Now he could hear Omnok come closer to his house. And then he saw Omnok's face at the side
of the wall. Ah! Yes! There was a little curtain there! Why had he not seen it! But suddenly
a happy thought came to Little White Bear. Just when Omnok was standing up, with his terrible
gun in his hand, Little White Bear rushed right at him and tumbled against his feet so hard
that Omnok went sprawling to the floor, and his terrible gun went clattering after.

Little White Bear bounded out of the little door. But there was just a little alley and then
another room with a window high up in the wall. He looked quickly, and saw a little shelf,
like Omnok's bed, only higher up, right under the window! Little White Bear jumped up but tumbled
back. He tried it again and fell back. But the third time he found himself on the shelf, and
in another minute he was out in the fine old world, running as fast as ever he could for home.
And you may be very sure he was glad to be with his mother safe in their cave that night.

CHAPTER IX

LITTLE BLACK BEAR'S DISCOVERY

What was Little Black Bear doing all the time Little White Bear was down in Omnok's house,
and what about Omnok's "pooksack"? Well, Little Black Bear looked down into Omnok's house and
wished his little playmate would hurry out, so they could discover some more things. But when
he had waited what seemed a long, long time, he went on a little exploring trip all by himself.
And he discovered something right away. It had four legs like Tdariuk, the reindeer. But it
was ever so much larger than Tdariuk, and its legs were straighter. Little Black Bear wasn't
long in finding out that this was not really any one at all, but just a rack Omnok had made
on which to keep his meat. And there was meat up there! Oh! strips and strips of it! But it
was all high out of reach. Little Black Bear sniffed and sniffed, and My! It did smell good! In an instant
the three men had haul me into the boat, and were straining like horses at their oars, as they
send the boat flashing through the water. We dashed alongside. Nothing
in this wide world moves serviceman like a utterance to them for water.
 It looked like a coat that
had belonged to one of Little Brown Seal's cousins, but he couldn't be in the coat right then,
for the collar was tied up tight as could be, and so were the sleeves.

"If there was any one in that coat, he would smother right away," said Little Black Bear, scratching
his head. "But there is something in it! See how its sides bulge out! I'll just give it a good
poke and see what happens."

Now that strange thing was just hung up by one string, and it swung about very easily. When
Little Black Bear gave it a great poke, it went up in the air quickly! It came down quickly
too, and it hit Little Black Bear square on his nose. He spun about and tumbled down in the
snow, and at first he had a notion to be angry.

When the thing had stopped swinging, he stood on his tiptoes and smelled of it. "E-ee-ee! How
good it smells," he cried. "I just believe that is Omnok's 'pooksack' of seal oil which mother
has been talking about!" Little Black Bear's mouth began to water and water, for his mother
had told him there was nothing half so good in the world as fine, rich seal oil.

Now how was Little Black Bear going to get that oil out of that "pooksack"? He thought and
thought and thought. At last he remembered the sleeves which were tied up. They were tied way
down at the ends, and there must be seal oil right down to the very tips. His mouth was too
small to bite the "pooksack", but one of these sleeves,--that was the very thing! He would
bite one of those, hard! with his sharp teeth, and the oil would come right out into his mouth!

He had to stand on his tiptoes to reach, but at last he set his teeth hard and Ah-ne-ca! How
good that seal oil did taste! It went gurgle, gurgle, right down his throat so fast he could
hardly get time to swallow.

But very soon he began to feel as if he had had quite enough. How was he going to stop the
seal oil from coming out? Well, he couldn't do that. He would just have to open his mouth and
dodge right out of the way quick. "That will be easy," he thought to himself. Anyway, he took
two or three more swallows, then he opened his mouth wide, and Ah-ne-ca! before he could move
one bit, that seal oil shot him right in the eyes and ears and began to run down his back so
fast he couldn't even give one grunt. You should have seen that little bear! He was oil from
head to foot! And as for his fine, silky, glossy, black coat, he was just sure it was ruined!
He didn't stop a minute to see if Little White Bear was out of Omnok's house, but ran home
as fast as ever he could.

"Why! Why!" cried his mother, as he came into the house. "Where have you been?"

Little Black Bear couldn't say a word. He just crawled over in one corner and looked down at
his toes.

And was his coat really ruined? Ask puss if her coat is ruined some day when she comes in out
of the rain, and see what she will say. Mother Black Bear cleaned that coat up that very night
so it looked better then new, but how she did it I wouldn't pretend to say.

CHAPTER X

FUN FOR TWO LITTLE BEARS

Little White Bear and Little Black Bear met at the snow hill next day, but Little White Bear
didn't jump into Little Black Bear's sharp claws, and you may be very, very sure they didn't
go exploring around Omnok's house! They did go way, way out on the white roof of the ocean.
There were splendid hills of ice to hide behind, and everywhere were great ice boulders over
which they could play leap-frog.

Little White Bear had just started to leap over one fine, large boulder, and Little Black Bear
was coming right after him, when all of a sudden Little White Bear turned a backward somersault
and tumbled right into Little Black Bear.

"Wow!" howled Little Black Bear. "What's the matter?"

"Shish!" whispered Little White Bear. "I saw something!"

"On the ice?" asked Little Black Bear, beginning to be frightened.

"Right out there a little bit farther," whispered Little White Bear. "And it was the biggest
thing! Oh! My! I can't tell how big it was!" Then Little Black Bear was frightened! What could
it be, way out here on the ice, miles and miles from shore? Little White Bear hadn't seen it
move, but how could it get way out here if it weren't alive? Trees and things like that couldn't
grow on the roof of the ocean.

They lay crouched down behind that big ice boulder until Little White Bear's foot had gone
to sleep, and Little Black Bear was catching cold from sitting on the ice.

"I am going to peek round and see if it has moved," said Little White Bear bravely. He looked,
and it hadn't moved one little bit, so it seemed as if it couldn't really be alive! Perhaps
it was something that Omnok had left there. They crept up toward it, little by little, until
they were right up to it, and what do you think? It was nothing but Omnok's big whaling boat
he had left on the ice.

They looked all around to see if Omnok were about, then they tumbled right into that boat for
a frolic. There were a great many things in the boat, but the most interesting of all was a
great, long "pooksack." It wasn't full of seal oil. If it had been, I am quite sure Little
Black Bear would have had nothing to do with it. It was just full of air. Omnok had used it
for a sled when he drew his boat over the roof of the ocean. And what a splendid football it
did make, and how they did knock it about! First Little White Bear would give it a boost with
his big, clumsy paws, then Little Black Bear would boost it right over Little White Bear's
head! STORIES BY ENGLISH AUTHORS THE SEA THE ADVENTURE OF A MATE BY Metal.

CLARK RUSSELL Bear Land BY SIR WALTER BESANT THE ROCK SCORPIONS ANONYMOUS
THE MASTER OF THE "CHRYSTOLITE"

BY G. Bacillus. O'HALLORAN "Fulmar" And "THE BLACK SWAN"
 And Little White Bear tumbled right into the
ocean after it! Yes, sir! Right into the water, and you never saw water so cold in all your
life! Little White Bear didn't scramble out as fast as ever he could! He just climbed up on
that "pooksack", happy as a clam, and wanted Little Black Bear to come in too! Little Black
Bear, however, had a notion that the water was cold, so he touched it with his toe and "Um-m-m!
Um-m-m!" he didn't want any swim that day. But Little White Bear wouldn't come out of the water
and play, so all Little Black Bear could do was to skip along home and tell his mother that
he was quite sure that Little White Bear would freeze to death that very night.

"Oh, no!" said Madam Black Bear, looking very wise. "Little White Bear won't freeze to death."

"Why," said Little Black Bear, opening his eyes wide, "I'm sure I'd freeze right away."

"So you would," said his mother. "You were a wise young fellow to try the water before you
ventured in. But Little White Bear is quite different. He has a very warm coat and is very
fat. He is used to the cold water and will live in it all winter. But just you wait," she added,
with a sly wink. "You will have a surprise for him some day! When he comes to look for you
some cold, cold time, won't he be surprised to find you snugly tucked away in bed and sleeping
all day and all night? Won't he, though?"

Madam Black Bear laughed a big bear laugh, and Little Black Bear laughed a little bear laugh,
so together they were after all two of the happiest bears in all the world.

When Omnok went out on the roof of the sea to get his big boat, he saw what Little White Bear
and Little Black Bear had done. He was very angry when he saw that his "pooksack" was gone.
He thought Big White Bear had been there.

"I'll go hunting for him to-morrow morning," he said to himself. "And I'll take Huskie, my
Malemute dog, along!"

CHAPTER XI

BIG WHITE BEAR MEETS HUSKIE

"Now, I'll tell you," Omnok said to Huskie, "Big White Bear is a great big bully. He likes
to fight all the little folks of the tundra and sea because he is so big. It would be a good
thing if we could show him that he isn't so awfully big, after all. Wouldn't it?"

"Ki, yi, yiyi," said Huskie, which meant he thought it would.

"Well, then, this is what you must do. Go running about on the ocean ice everywhere and hunt
for him. I will be hunting too. If you find him first, run away, then call me. I will shoot
him. Do you see?"

"Ki, yiyi," answered Huskie again, meaning this time, "I do."

Huskie ran up and down, in and out among the ice piles, until his feet were sore. He was very
anxious to find Big White Bear. Whenever a little fellow has a chance to harm a big fellow
he thinks is a bully, he always wants to do it. Did you ever notice that?

So Huskie ran on and on, even if his feet were sore.

"Hello!" He had just gone around something he thought was an ice pile when he heard a voice.

