No one so far has dared to take up this problem as a present question for statecraft, but it
comes unheralded, unadvocated, and sits at every legislative board. Every improvement is provisional
except the improvement of the race, and it became more and more doubtful to me if we were improving
the race at all! Splendid and beautiful and courageous people must come together and have children,
women with their fine senses and glorious devotion must be freed from the net that compels
them to be celibate, compels them to be childless and useless, or to bear children ignobly
to men whom need and ignorance and the treacherous pressure of circumstances have forced upon
them. We all know that, and so few dare even to whisper it for fear that they should seem,
in seeking to save the family, to threaten its existence. It is as if a party of pigmies in
a not too capacious room had been joined by a carnivorous giant--and decided to go on living
happily by cutting him dead....

The problem the developing civilised state has to solve is how it can get the best possible
increase under the best possible conditions. I became more and more convinced that the independent
family unit of to-day, in which the man is master of the wife and owner of the children, in
which all are dependent upon him, subordinated to his enterprises and liable to follow his
fortunes up or down, does not supply anything like the best conceivable conditions. We want
to modernise the family footing altogether. An enormous premium both in pleasure and competitive
efficiency is put upon voluntary childlessness, and enormous inducements are held out to women
to subordinate instinctive and selective preferences to social and material considerations.

The practical reaction of modern conditions upon the old tradition of the family is this: that
beneath the pretence that nothing is changing, secretly and with all the unwholesomeness of
secrecy everything is changed. Offspring fall away, the birth rate falls and falls most among
just the most efficient and active and best adapted classes in the community. The species is
recruited from among its failures and from among less civilised aliens. Contemporary civilisations
are in effect burning the best of their possible babies in the furnaces that run the machinery.
In the United States the native Anglo-American strain has scarcely increased at all since 1830,
and in most Western European countries the same is probably true of the ablest and most energetic
elements in the community. The women of these classes still remain legally and practically
dependent and protected, with the only natural excuse for their dependence gone....

The modern world becomes an immense spectacle of unsatisfactory groupings; here childless couples
bored to death in the hopeless effort to sustain an incessant honeymoon, here homes in which
a solitary child grows unsocially, here small two or three-child homes that do no more than
continue the culture of the parents at a great social cost, here numbers of unhappy educated
but childless married women, here careless, decivilised fecund homes, here orphanages and asylums
for the heedlessly begotten. It is just the disorderly proliferation of Bromstead over again,
in lives instead of in houses.

What is the good, what is the common sense, of rectifying boundaries, pushing research and
discovery, building cities, improving all the facilities of life, making great fleets, waging
wars, while this aimless decadence remains the quality of the biological outlook?...

It is difficult now to trace how I changed from my early aversion until I faced this mass of
problems. But so far back as 1910 I had it clear in my mind that I would rather fail utterly
than participate in all the surrenders of mind and body that are implied in Dayton's snarl
of "Leave it alone; leave it all alone!" Marriage and the begetting and care of children, is
the very ground substance in the life of the community. In a world in which everything changes,
in which fresh methods, fresh adjustments and fresh ideas perpetually renew the circumstances
of life, it is preposterous that we should not even examine into these matters, should rest
content to be ruled by the uncriticised traditions of a barbaric age.

Now, it seems to me that the solution of this problem is also the solution of the woman's individual
problem. The two go together, are right and left of one question. The only conceivable way
out from our IMPASSE lies in the recognition of parentage, that is to say of adequate mothering,
as no longer a chance product of individual passions but a service rendered to the State. Women
must become less and less subordinated to individual men, since this works out in a more or
less complete limitation, waste, and sterilisation of their essentially social function; they
must become more and more subordinated as individually independent citizens to the collective
purpose. Or, to express the thing by a familiar phrase, the highly organised, scientific state
we desire must, if it is to exist at all, base itself not upon the irresponsible man-ruled
family, but upon the matriarchal family, the citizen-ship and freedom of women and the public
endowment of motherhood.

After two generations of confused and experimental revolt it grows clear to modern women that
a conscious, deliberate motherhood and mothering is their special function in the State, and
that a personal subordination to an individual man with an unlimited power of control over
this intimate and supreme duty is a degradation. No contemporary woman of education put to
the test is willing to recognise any claim a man can make upon her but the claim of her freely-given
devotion to him. She wants the reality of her choice and she means "family" while a man too
often means only possession. This alters the spirit of the family relationships fundamentally.
Their form remains just what it was when woman was esteemed a pretty, desirable, and incidentally
a child-producing, chattel. Against these time-honoured ideas the new spirit of womanhood struggles
in shame, astonishment, bitterness, and tears....

I confess myself altogether feminist. I have no doubts in the matter. I want this coddling
and browbeating of women to cease. I want to see women come in, free and fearless, to a full
participation in the collective purpose of mankind. Women, I am convinced, are as fine as men;
they can be as wise as men; they are capable of far greater devotion than men. I want to see
them citizens, with a marriage law framed primarily for them and for their protection and the
good of the race, and not for men's satisfactions. I want to see them bearing and rearing good
children in the State as a generously rewarded public duty and service, choosing their husbands
freely and discerningly, and in no way enslaved by or subordinated to the men they have chosen.
The social consciousness of women seems to me an unworked, an almost untouched mine of wealth
for the constructive purpose of the world. I want to change the respective values of the family
group altogether, and make the home indeed the women's kingdom and the mother the owner and
responsible guardian of her children.

It is no use pretending that this is not novel and revolutionary; it is. The Endowment of Motherhood
implies a new method of social organization, a rearrangement of the social unit, untried in
human experience--as untried as electric traction was or flying in 1800. Of course, it may
work out to modify men's ideas of marriage profoundly. To me that is a secondary consideration.
I do not believe that particular assertion myself, because I am convinced that a practical
monogamy is a psychological necessity to the mass of civilised people. But even if I did believe
it I should still keep to my present line, because it is the only line that will prevent a
highly organised civilisation from ending in biological decay. The public Endowment of Motherhood
is the only possible way which will ensure the permanently developing civilised state at which
all constructive minds are aiming. A point is reached in the life-history of a civilisation
when either this reconstruction must be effected or the quality and MORALE of the population
prove insufficient for the needs of the developing organisation. It is not so much moral decadence
that will destroy us as moral inadaptability. The old code fails under the new needs. The only
alternative to this profound reconstruction is a decay in human quality and social collapse.
Either this unprecedented rearrangement must be achieved by our civilisation, or it must presently
come upon a phase of disorder and crumble and perish, as Rome perished, as France declines,
as the strain of the Pilgrim Fathers dwindles out of America. Whatever hope there may be in
the attempt therefore, there is no alternative to the attempt.

6

I wanted political success now dearly enough, but not at the price of constructive realities.
These questions were no doubt monstrously dangerous in the political world; there wasn't a
politician alive who didn't look scared at the mention of "The Family," but if raising these
issues were essential to the social reconstructions on which my life was set, that did not
matter. It only implied that I should take them up with deliberate caution. There was no release
because of risk or difficulty.

The question of whether I should commit myself to some open project in this direction was going
on in my mind concurrently with my speculations about a change of party, like bass and treble
in a complex piece of music. The two drew to a conclusion together. I would not only go over
to Imperialism, but I would attempt to biologise Imperialism.

I thought at first that I was undertaking a monstrous uphill task. But as I came to look into
the possibilities of the matter, a strong persuasion grew up in my mind that this panic fear
of legislative proposals affecting the family basis was excessive, that things were much riper
for development in this direction than old-experienced people out of touch with the younger
generation imagined, that to phrase the thing in a parliamentary fashion, "something might
be done in the constituencies" with the Endowment of Motherhood forthwith, provided only that
it was made perfectly clear that anything a sane person could possibly intend by "morality"
was left untouched by these proposals.

I went to work very carefully. I got Roper of the DAILY TELEPHONE and Burkett of the DIAL to
try over a silly-season discussion of State Help for Mothers, and I put a series of articles
on eugenics, upon the fall in the birth-rate, and similar topics in the BLUE WEEKLY, leading
up to a tentative and generalised advocacy of the public endowment of the nation's children.
I was more and more struck by the acceptance won by a sober and restrained presentation of
this suggestion.

And then, in the fourth year of the BLUE WEEKLY'S career, came the Handitch election, and I
was forced by the clamour of my antagonist, and very willingly forced, to put my convictions
to the test. I returned triumphantly to Westminster with the Public Endowment of Motherhood
as part of my open profession and with the full approval of the party press. Applauding benches
of Imperialists cheered me on my way to the table between the whips.

That second time I took the oath I was not one of a crowd of new members, but salient, an event,
a symbol of profound changes and new purposes in the national life.

Here it is my political book comes to an end, and in a sense my book ends altogether. For the
rest is but to tell how I was swept out of this great world of political possibilities. I close
this Third Book as I opened it, with an admission of difficulties and complexities, but now
with a pile of manuscript before me I have to confess them unsurmounted and still entangled.

Yet my aim was a final simplicity. I have sought to show my growing realisation that the essential
quality of all political and social effort is the development of a great race mind behind the
interplay of individual lives. That is the collective human reality, the basis of morality,
the purpose of devotion. To that our lives must be given, from that will come the perpetual
fresh release and further ennoblement of individual lives....

I have wanted to make that idea of a collective mind play in this book the part United Italy
plays in Machiavelli's PRINCE. I have called it the hinterland of reality, shown it accumulating
a dominating truth and rightness which must force men's now sporadic motives more and more
into a disciplined and understanding relation to a plan. And I have tried to indicate how I
sought to serve this great clarification of our confusions....

Now I come back to personality and the story of my self-betrayal, and how it is I have had
to leave all that far-reaching scheme of mine, a mere project and beginning for other men to
take or leave as it pleases them.

BOOK THE FOURTH: ISABEL

CHAPTER THE FIRST ~~ LOVE AND SUCCESS

1

I come to the most evasive and difficult part of my story, which is to tell how Isabel and
I have made a common wreck of our joint lives.

It is not the telling of one simple disastrous accident. There was a vein in our natures that
led to this collapse, gradually and at this point and that it crept to the surface. One may
indeed see our destruction--for indeed politically we could not be more extinct if we had been
shot dead--in the form of a catastrophe as disconnected and conclusive as a meteoric stone
falling out of heaven upon two friends and crushing them both. But I do not think that is true
to our situation or ourselves. We were not taken by surprise. The thing was in us and not from
without, it was akin to our way of thinking and our habitual attitudes; it had, for all its
impulsive effect, a certain necessity. We might have escaped no doubt, as two men at a hundred
yards may shoot at each other with pistols for a considerable time and escape. But it isn't
particularly reasonable to talk of the contrariety of fate if they both get hit.

Isabel and I were dangerous to each other for several years of friendship, and not quite unwittingly
so.

In writing this, moreover, there is a very great difficulty in steering my way between two
equally undesirable tones in the telling. In the first place I do not want to seem to confess
my sins with a penitence I am very doubtful if I feel. Now that I have got Isabel we can no
doubt count the cost of it and feel unquenchable regrets, but I am not sure whether, if we
could be put back now into such circumstances as we were in a year ago, or two years ago, whether
with my eyes fully open I should not do over again very much as I did. And on the other hand
I do not want to justify the things we have done. We are two bad people--if there is to be
any classification of good and bad at all, we have acted badly, and quite apart from any other
considerations we've largely wasted our own very great possibilities. But it is part of a queer
humour that underlies all this, that I find myself slipping again and again into a sentimental
treatment of our case that is as unpremeditated as it is insincere. When I am a little tired
after a morning's writing I find the faint suggestion getting into every other sentence that
our blunders and misdeeds embodied, after the fashion of the prophet Hosea, profound moral
truths. Indeed, I feel so little confidence in my ability to keep this altogether out of my
book that I warn the reader here that in spite of anything he may read elsewhere in the story,
intimating however shyly an esoteric and exalted virtue in our proceedings, the plain truth
of this business is that Isabel and I wanted each other with a want entirely formless, inconsiderate,
and overwhelming. And though I could tell you countless delightful and beautiful things about
Isabel, were this a book in her praise, I cannot either analyse that want or account for its
extreme intensity.

I will confess that deep in my mind there is a belief in a sort of wild rightness about any
love that is fraught with beauty, but that eludes me and vanishes again, and is not, I feel,
to be put with the real veracities and righteousnesses and virtues in the paddocks and menageries
of human reason....

We have already a child, and Margaret was childless, and I find myself prone to insist upon
that, as if it was a justification. But, indeed, when we became lovers there was small thought
of Eugenics between us. No, my good Lady. I am engaged on Wednesday to dine at the Albion Tavern
with the Directors of the East India Company; now my servants; next
week, I hope, to be my masters.

Ever
yours, T. B. M. FOOTNOTES: [122] Indeed it exemplifies Defoe's favourite
proverb about "What is bred in the bone," etc.-- as for instance when,
while admitting Chesterfield's high position in some ways, he calls
the Letters "for the most part trash."

It is scarcely too much to call such criticism itself "trashy."

THOMAS LOVELL BEDDOES (1803-1849) Beddoes belongs to the small but
remarkable company of authors who, making little mark in their own
time and none at all for some time afterwards, before very long come
into something like their due, though they never can be exactly popular.

He was certainly very eccentric and possibly quite mad: the circumstances of his suicide do more
than justify the hopes of charity and the convention of coroners'juries, as to the latter conclusion.
But he was an extremely poetical poet and a letter-writer of remarkable
individuality and zest.

Little notice seems to have been taken, by any save a very few elect,
of the first collected publication of his work just after his death:
though a single piece, The Bride's Tragedy, not by any means his best,
had obtained praise in 1822-- a time between the great poetical outburst
of the early nineteenth century and the revival of its middle period. Most perhaps
will escape, but many will go down, many more than the world can spare. It is the unwritten
law of all our public life, and the same holds true of America, that an honest open scandal
ends a career. England in the last quarter of a century has wasted half a dozen statesmen on
this score; she would, I believe, reject Nelson now if he sought to serve her. Is it wonderful
that to us fretting here in exile this should seem the cruellest as well as the most foolish
elimination of a necessary social element? It destroys no vice; for vice hides by nature. It
not only rewards dullness as if it were positive virtue, but sets an enormous premium upon
hypocrisy. That is my case, and that is why I am telling this side of my story with so much
explicitness.

2

Ever since the Kinghamstead election I had maintained what seemed a desultory friendship with
Isabel. At first it was rather Isabel kept it up than I. Whenever Margaret and I went down
to that villa, with its three or four acres of garden and shrubbery about it, which fulfilled
our election promise to live at Kinghamstead, Isabel would turn up in a state of frank cheerfulness,
rejoicing at us, and talk all she was reading and thinking to me, and stay for all the rest
of the day. In her shameless liking for me she was as natural as a savage. She would exercise
me vigorously at tennis, while Margaret lay and rested her back in the afternoon, or guide
me for some long ramble that dodged the suburban and congested patches of the constituency
with amazing skill. She took possession of me in that unabashed, straight-minded way a girl
will sometimes adopt with a man, chose my path or criticised my game with a motherly solicitude
for my welfare that was absurd and delightful. And we talked. We discussed and criticised the
stories of novels, scraps of history, pictures, social questions, socialism, the policy of
the Government. She was young and most unevenly informed, but she was amazingly sharp and quick
and good. Never before in my life had I known a girl of her age, or a woman of her quality.
I had never dreamt there was such talk in the world. Kinghamstead became a lightless place
when she went to Oxford. Heaven knows how much that may not have precipitated my abandonment
of the seat!

She went to Ridout College, Oxford, and that certainly weighed with me when presently after
my breach with the Liberals various little undergraduate societies began to ask for lectures
and discussions. I favoured Oxford. I declared openly I did so because of her. At that time
I think we neither of us suspected the possibility of passion that lay like a coiled snake
in the path before us. It seemed to us that we had the quaintest, most delightful friendship
in the world; she was my pupil, and I was her guide, philosopher, and friend. People smiled
indulgently--even Margaret smiled indulgently--at our attraction for one another.

Such friendships are not uncommon nowadays--among easy-going, liberal-minded people. For the
most part, there's no sort of harm, as people say, in them. The two persons concerned are never
supposed to think of the passionate love that hovers so close to the friendship, or if they
do, then they banish the thought. I think we kept the thought as permanently in exile as any
one could do. If it did in odd moments come into our heads we pretended elaborately it wasn't
there.

Only we were both very easily jealous of each other's attention, and tremendously insistent
upon each other's preference.

I remember once during the Oxford days an intimation that should have set me thinking, and
I suppose discreetly disentangling myself. It was one Sunday afternoon, and it must have been
about May, for the trees and shrubs of Ridout College were gay with blossom, and fresh with
the new sharp greens of spring. I had walked talking with Isabel and a couple of other girls
through the wide gardens of the place, seen and criticised the new brick pond, nodded to the
daughter of this friend and that in the hammocks under the trees, and picked a way among the
scattered tea-parties on the lawn to our own circle on the grass under a Siberian crab near
the great bay window. There I sat and ate great quantities of cake, and discussed the tactics
of the Suffragettes. I had made some comments upon the spirit of the movement in an address
to the men in Pembroke, and it had got abroad, and a group of girls and women dons were now
having it out with me.

I forget the drift of the conversation, or what it was made Isabel interrupt me. She did interrupt
me. She had been lying prone on the ground at my right hand, chin on fists, listening thoughtfully,
and I was sitting beside old Lady Evershead on a garden seat. I turned to Isabel's voice, and
saw her face uplifted, and her dear cheeks and nose and forehead all splashed and barred with
sunlight and the shadows of the twigs of the trees behind me. And something--an infinite tenderness,
stabbed me. It was a keen physical feeling, like nothing I had ever felt before. It had a quality
of tears in it. For the first time in my narrow and concentrated life another human being had
really thrust into my being and gripped my very heart.

Our eyes met perplexed for an extraordinary moment. Then I turned back and addressed myself
a little stiffly to the substance of her intervention. For some time I couldn't look at her again.

From that time forth I knew I loved Isabel beyond measure.

Yet it is curious that it never occurred to me for a year or so that this was likely to be
a matter of passion between us. I have told how definitely I put my imagination into harness
in those matters at my marriage, and I was living now in a world of big interests, where there
is neither much time nor inclination for deliberate love-making. I suppose there is a large
class of men who never meet a girl or a woman without thinking of sex, who meet a friend's
daughter and decide: "Mustn't get friendly with her--wouldn't DO," and set invisible bars between
themselves and all the wives in the world. Perhaps that is the way to live. Perhaps there is
no other method than this effectual annihilation of half--and the most sympathetic and attractive
half--of the human beings in the world, so far as any frank intercourse is concerned. I am
quite convinced anyhow that such a qualified intimacy as ours, such a drifting into the sense
of possession, such untrammeled conversation with an invisible, implacable limit set just where
the intimacy glows, it is no kind of tolerable compromise. If men and women are to go so far
together, they must be free to go as far as they may want to go, without the vindictive destruction
that has come upon us. On the basis of the accepted codes the jealous people are right, and
the liberal-minded ones are playing with fire. If people are not to love, then they must be
kept apart. If they are not to be kept apart, then we must prepare for an unprecedented toleration
of lovers.

Isabel was as unforeseeing as I to begin with, but sex marches into the life of an intelligent
girl with demands and challenges far more urgent than the mere call of curiosity and satiable
desire that comes to a young man. No woman yet has dared to tell the story of that unfolding.
She attracted men, and she encouraged them, and watched them, and tested them, and dismissed
them, and concealed the substance of her thoughts about them in the way that seems instinctive
in a natural-minded girl. There was even an engagement--amidst the protests and disapproval
of the college authorities. I never saw the man, though she gave me a long history of the affair,
to which I listened with a forced and insincere sympathy. She struck me oddly as taking the
relationship for a thing in itself, and regardless of its consequences. After a time she became
silent about him, and then threw him over; and by that time, I think, for all that she was
so much my junior, she knew more about herself and me than I was to know for several years to come.

We didn't see each other for some months after my resignation, but we kept up a frequent correspondence.
She said twice over that she wanted to talk to me, that letters didn't convey what one wanted
to say, and I went up to Oxford pretty definitely to see her--though I combined it with one
or two other engagements--somewhere in February. Insensibly she had become important enough
for me to make journeys for her.

But we didn't see very much of one another on that occasion. There was something in the air
between us that made a faint embarrassment; the mere fact, perhaps, that she had asked me to
come up.

A year before she would have dashed off with me quite unscrupulously to talk alone, carried
me off to her room for an hour with a minute of chaperonage to satisfy the rules. Now there
was always some one or other near us that it seemed impossible to exorcise.

We went for a walk on the Sunday afternoon with old Fortescue, K. C., who'd come up to see
his two daughters, both great friends of Isabel's, and some mute inglorious don whose name
I forget, but who was in a state of marked admiration for her. The six of us played a game
of conversational entanglements throughout, and mostly I was impressing the Fortescue girls
with the want of mental concentration possible in a rising politician. We went down Carfex,
I remember, to Folly Bridge, and inspected the Barges, and then back by way of Merton to the
Botanic Gardens and Magdalen Bridge. And in the Botanic Gardens she got almost her only chance
with me.

"Last months at Oxford," she said.

"And then?" I asked.

"I'm coming to London," she said.

"To write?"

She was silent for a moment. Then she said abruptly, with that quick flush of hers and a sudden
boldness in her eyes: "I'm going to work with you. Why shouldn't I?"

3

Here, again, I suppose I had a fair warning of the drift of things. I seem to remember myself
in the train to Paddington, sitting with a handful of papers--galley proofs for the BLUE WEEKLY,
I suppose--on my lap, and thinking about her and that last sentence of hers, and all that it
might mean to me.

It is very hard to recall even the main outline of anything so elusive as a meditation. I know
that the idea of working with her gripped me, fascinated me. That my value in her life seemed
growing filled me with pride and a kind of gratitude. I was already in no doubt that her value
in my life was tremendous. It made it none the less, that in those days I was obsessed by the
idea that she was transitory, and bound to go out of my life again. It is no good trying to
set too fine a face upon this complex business, there is gold and clay and sunlight and savagery
in every love story, and a multitude of elvish elements peeped out beneath the fine rich curtain
of affection that masked our future. I've never properly weighed how immensely my vanity was
gratified by her clear preference for me. Nor can I for a moment determine how much deliberate
intention I hide from myself in this affair.

Certainly I think some part of me must have been saying in the train: "Leave go of her. Get
away from her. End this now." I can't have been so stupid as not to have had that in my mind....

If she had been only a beautiful girl in love with me, I think I could have managed the situation.
Once or twice since my marriage and before Isabel became of any significance in my life, there
had been incidents with other people, flashes of temptation--no telling is possible of the
thing resisted. I think that mere beauty and passion would not have taken me. But between myself
and Isabel things were incurably complicated by the intellectual sympathy we had, the jolly
march of our minds together. That has always mattered enormously. I should have wanted her
company nearly as badly if she had been some crippled old lady; we would have hunted shoulder
to shoulder, as two men. Only two men would never have had the patience and readiness for one
another we two had. I had never for years met any one with whom I could be so carelessly sure
of understanding or to whom I could listen so easily and fully. She gave me, with an extraordinary
completeness, that rare, precious effect of always saying something fresh, and yet saying it
so that it filled into and folded about all the little recesses and corners of my mind with
an infinite, soft familiarity. It is impossible to explain that. It is like trying to explain
why her voice, her voice heard speaking to any one--heard speaking in another room--pleased
my ears.

