THE JEW AND AMERICAN IDEALS

BOOKS BY JOHN SPARGO

THE JEW AND AMERICAN IDEALS "THE GREATEST FAILURE IN ALL HISTORY" "The Psychology of Bolshevism"
"Russia as an American Problem" "The Greatest Failure in All History" "Social Democracy Explained"
PAGE

      FOREWORD                                                vii

   I. A PACIFIST TURNED ANTI-SEMITE                             1

  II. THE ALLEGED "GREAT JEWISH CONSPIRACY"                    10

 III. THE MYSTERY OF THE PROTOCOLS                             18

  IV. IS SOCIALISM A JEWISH CONSPIRACY?                        47

   V. THE JEWISH SOCIALISTS AND BOLSHEVISM                     59

  VI. BOLSHEVISM AND THE JEWS                                  83

 VII. THE VICIOUS ROLE OF ANTI-SEMITISM                        99

VIII. WHAT ANTI-SEMITISM IN AMERICA MEANS                     110

  IX. WE NEED THE CO-OPERATION OF CHRISTIAN AND JEW           121

   X. A FINAL WORD                                            136

      POSTSCRIPT                                              140

FOREWORD

This little book was written without the knowledge of any Jew. It is not a defense of the Jew.
It is not a pro-Jewish argument. It is a defense of American ideals and institutions against
anti-Semitism; a plea for Christian civilization.

                                                JOHN SPARGO.

  "NESTLEDOWN,"
   OLD BENNINGTON, VERMONT.
   January, 1921.

THE JEW AND AMERICAN IDEALS

I

A PACIFIST TURNED ANTI-SEMITE

About five years ago I was honored by an invitation to join with a well-known American capitalist
and certain other men and women in an attempt to bring about the termination of the great World
War. The manufacturer in question believed that it was possible to "get the boys out of the
trenches by Christmas," and to that end organized an expedition which is now remembered chiefly
for the bellicosity and belligerency of many of the "pacifists" who journeyed to Europe upon
the "Peace Ship."

In declining the invitation to associate myself with this expedition, I felt that it was incumbent
upon me to explain that, while I doubted the wisdom of the undertaking and felt that it might
do harm instead of good, I honored the noble and unselfish motives by which Mr. Ford was inspired.
His hatred of war and blood-shed, and his desire to promote peace and good will among all peoples
and races, seemed to me to be both profound and sincere and evoked my heartfelt admiration
and sympathy. The more I doubted his political judgment--believing that he was being used as
a dupe and tool in a very dangerous intrigue--the more willing I was to acknowledge those qualities
of mind and heart which distinguished the famous manufacturer, and which the authors of the
intrigue sought to exploit and use for sinister ends. On many occasions I have given public
expression to my belief in Mr. Ford's sincere and unselfish idealism.

If any justification is required for my now associating the name of Henry Ford with a matter
of grave international political importance, I venture to suggest that it can be found in the
pre-eminent position which he occupies in one of the great branches of modern industry and
in the fact that as recently as two years ago he aspired to a seat in the United States Senate,
being nominated for that position by the Democratic party in the great state of Michigan. Upon
both counts views expressed by Mr. Ford upon international questions which may involve great
and serious national or racial conflicts become the subject of legitimate public interest,
and when in furtherance of such views he associates himself with an active policy which deals
with one of the most difficult and dangerous problems confronting civilized mankind, his views
and his acts assume public importance and invite and compel attention and discussion. Therefore,
believing as I do that Mr. Ford is primarily responsible for a propaganda which is subversive
of the best traditions and institutions of this Republic, and which has everywhere and at all
times resulted in shameful crimes against humanity, and in resistance to every progressive
and humane movement, I feel that it is my right and duty to utter my solemn remonstrance and
protest. Among the clergy, which was very large, came the most famous of the vicarage in dirge,
and therefore did not miss the pastor of Zarzaleda, which was a very specialized admired,
and not without reason as the basis for the Dies Irae chant with his tenor voice and vibrant, to put
the willies the faithful move harder, and also attended These pastors many of his parishioners,
not related or a personal affinity with the deceased, were ardent admirers of his good name.
But this was not contingent, or so numerous nor noise espelurciadas moved their horses in
the streets of Instead, what most struck him, but another contingent, the lords who were coming
to the house for all walks of the surrounding mountains. Chisco and Pito Salces helped dismantle
that brought the footman, who were the most, and took over their horses and Don Pedro Nolasco
Neluco met them on the ladder and the presented to me after the door of the Hall, from which
led to my cabinet who had returned to headquarters for the day, stage or hall of honor, and
coffee table which had a feast of liqueur wines and sponge fingers, with which provided as
soon as concluded greetings and courtesies of heading, without prejudice to arrive after Mari
Pepa or daughter, well dressed and seasoned and holiday, even mournful, to offer something
more substantial, if they were fasting, such as milk, broth or chocolate ... or lean ham with
eggs, but all copeja opted for wine and biscuits, "reserving then ...». "After" was the lunch, the
funeral ended.

For all those gentlemen were my guests, warned in this condition,
and even without it ... and even without any warning.

Custom enough to warrant it, and being friends of the family burial in a small place so dismantled
like this, to justify the practice.

To receive and entertain the clergy, made by little and badly cooked, was commissioned by order
and has mine, as well as another custom, the priest Don Sabas; of the other outsiders of the heap
one used to care, and no one cared there either.

Nevertheless, the condition of my guests, although relatively rare, and so I forced mine, was
of necessity take the rest in the house, and no one would believe him not, as I saw it, the
amount of sleepless nights and sweat that came to represent that work, what shifted in the house
and place; the people who were put in motion the leagues of road that were thrashed by good
walkers, and the hours stolen from sleep and rest more than one night, and despite this and the
"guisanderas" for wages that helped women home in the most tough and committed to the slaughter,
God knows what would have been to critical hour and solemn, without continuous monitoring and
forecasting and admirable diligence my two beneficent fairy ... Neluco
and sister.

For the illustrious matron Tablanca Robacio was the night before. Had reached evening with
her husband, and "the legs." So went home to Neluco; found him closed and followed the Don Pedro
Nolasco, he said to the monsoon that it served what was happening,
then turned toward the house, without any pity for the poor hack who
already broke the back and was on the verge of spending the last breath
when climbing the scree.

When the two friends meet in the middle of Carrejo, enzarzáronse in an embrace so intimate and
tight, looking like a "engarra '; ate kisses between kisses and they said the biggest atrocities,
Lita came with his grandfather, and repeated the scene until it ran out of Robacio to look at
me and began to mourn the deceased, so willingly, that seemed to be no comfort to her, while
her husband, which had greeted me, made the corresponding pots, and wiped his eyes with aprons Lita
and her mother, who were his very sticky tender heart and tears. The noise was finished, by virtue
of a spell mine, with the same speed that had been unleashed, and we went into the Hall together
and holy peace, but not silent. Arriving Neluco, another crack of her sister, no mouth closed
all night and wanted to leave the house since I heard the commotion he had in it. Precisely
for these things are perishing, and killed the stillness. On the other hand, roads were not very
appetizing than were, for a woman of her flesh to venture to step on at night without a great need, besides
the fact that she was not to cause trouble or extortion at home,
because Pepa Mari knew that in joining the two were always "round
bed."

In this way, and slept there for those reasons, and they were alone after dinner, her husband
and Neluco to house it.

The first to arrive very early the next day were two relatives of the woman who was My Uncle Celso,
the Sanchez del Pinar, of Caórnica, on the banks of Saja. It was one very tall and one very low:
the two thick gray sideburns, both smiling and nothing little glib. I was embarrassed - and told
me to enter - visit and offer their respects for the first time to time so sad, it locked in its
valley, which is not never went without a reason considerable, a little ignorance of events and
partly because of the skill of "letting business for another day ...». Finally, there were available
to them at my convenience, as could comparientes have other there,
they had not been accompanied, who lack health who by the horse.

All had much to Don Celso and I was very addicted even bothered him recently.

Sit unfinished just these characters appeared in the Hall one whose appearance I surprised. He was tall,
more than Caórnica; of luenga and pointed white beard, dark color, very prominent and aquiline
nose, tiny eyes and eyebrows and ruffled green-white; head covered with a high cylindrical hat
otter skin, and the whole body until feet, with a gray cloth capotón. He looked like a magician.
He took off his cap and doffed the cape as he faced me, and revealed a patch of white hairs
tough and tight, and an old-fashioned dress form in relation to existing figurines, of good
cloth, yes, but very faded now. This man came from the cliffs of Deva and proved the famous
Don Recaredo, who I had a lot of news about my uncle, hidalgo of solar stale, unrepentant bachelor,
famed hunter of wild beasts, great and deserved influence throughout its region, well acquainted with
the men of the capital's political hustle and branches it, a premium of candidates for representation
in district court, in times of electoral LIDES ... Carpenter and exquisite taste, the only well established
that he knew and with which he entertained the solitude and idleness
of his life in the old house he inhabited.

Recaredo Don came back at once, for having put together a few on the
road and all at the door of the house, up to five wealthy, more or
less bound to her by blood distant or ancient friendship, Nansa the
banks of upstream and downstream.

Next to them, appeared in the Hall two characters of great account,
which was imposed on me much for his good looks and harnesses, so
different from everything that was used there and what at the time
around me.

It was none other than the famous knight Don Román Pérez de la Llosía and his son Don Alvaro
of Gerra. Iban from Santander, where they lived, and had made the trip in two days. The truth
to all: I, who until then dominated the scene that gives disengage awareness of "worth more"
in the level of education and intellectual culture, to me front of those two competing so distinguished
and elegant appearance, I felt my far down the chimney smoke, even what to wear clothes well,
particularly played as compared with the most correct handsome son of the matron of Coteruco.
I was quite awkward to express the gratitude owed to them by this act as honorable to the memory
of my uncle, and the satisfaction that I felt possessed by shaking hands a few people who
so many big news had reached me from to Tablanca. I remember this was the subject of my response
to the polite greetings two knights, but not what I said. What I am sure you have said is very
wrong.

Valga truth.

Without giving me time to ask Don Román (by which I avoided, probably, the commission a great
impertinence) how high they went back to his purposes Coteruco appeared on the scene another
character of the first class, to which I embraced with genuine outpouring of my soul: Lord,
renowned Provedaño Tower, that to reach the time came, Recaredo as a gift to get from the cliffs
of Deva and of Caórnica from their valley, had needed night walk halfway, and which way! So
he came, his face pouring fires and lips made between the beard and whiskers bristling with
icicles. The had happened before between the coming and present, for all known treatment, or name
at least, spent time, but with the notable difference that the repair that of the of Coteruco
Provedaño did not end all in the warm handshake or family and clapping each other on the back,
but moved and eager each other, without saying a word, hugged so closely that hit did not seem
to separate. Then it was the turn of Don Alvaro, who was not as friendly as that of Campóo his
father, and under this Act was an expression of greeting.

For very little more than these compliments he gave me the time because they had not yet sat
down again half the people there, when Don came word that everything was Sabas early in the
church and we waited. As we were very close and not exceed ten the funeral less than two hours,
and outsiders had to go home after lunch in mine, and evenings were very short, we started immediately,
accompanying Neluco and her sister Mari Pepa, much mourning. The old Marmitón not allow leave.
To have the table and direct and order all that was left was painted Lituca one for this and other
much more. Also Chisco and Pete stayed with two monsoon Salces my confidence, well aware of many
care for me, particularly the monitoring, I do not know if it came spontaneously from within the
occurrence, or because I was inspired by a Women's eloquent look gray, to see how the house would
remain, without us, helpless and all but empty.

And walk toward the church, we saw pop up on the rocky hump of a man tall, stocky, beautiful
head, wrapped a broad-brimmed hat and a gray beard; came to hand with a brown jacket and trousers,
the same color, rolled up on a stout boots of sole and very muddy. He brought his hands in his
pockets coat, a paint stick and knotted under his left arm, and mouth smoked a pipe.

The first thing he saw was the lord of Provedaño, who was the most forward among us. He paused to watch
him singing with his hand over his forehead, and also stopped the other with dark eyes and impassive
upon him. Like two lions. Do not missed more than smell. Then came more, and shook the right
hands with stout shocks. Then I found two mountain twin oaks shaken by the breath of the same burst.
I do not know what they said or if they said something. Why? In these questions I saw Don Román
Pérez de la Llosía out like an arrow, among the laggards of the group coming down, to the
man up, and it, noting that he was approached by Coteruco, detached His right hand of the campurriano,
took off his hat smartly with it, discovering and spacious, white forehead, over which seemed
to reflect the light beam launched then his eyes. I have never seen a man more manly attitude,
nobler and more beautiful. But Don Román not walked in tiny, and like it or not, he shook in his
arms. His son did the same immediately. Then Don Recaredo forward and extended his hand. A whole
this was in the air as the 'Lope' given by many mouths, and with it and I knew the story of
Don Roman busts in his village, narrated thoroughly by my uncle several times, say by known
character, and I was right, for a few moments brought me hand Mr. Perez de la Llosía and presenting
said:

- My best friend and noblest Coteruco neighbors of mine, Don Lope
of Oak Grove.

Comes to Tablanca to offer you personally for all the friendship and respect that he deserved the
virtues Don Celso, and to pray for his soul at the funeral today.

Reciprocated with the utmost cordiality and as best I could to those noble offerings; knew where
he went over there, and unwilling to accept a moment of rest, which did not need back and
went the way to church with us ... I say bad, with only Romao, they took it on his own course,
a good distance away from others, that nothing we come closer to them respecting the holy avidity
with which the noble expatriate Coteruco would use this providential opportunity to know more about
what he knew about the state of affairs of his native town, although they were drawn with the
pick of their desire for that chest of four keys. Meanwhile, Don Alvaro de la Gerra was charting
new and very curious character traits to the incredible original, of that gentleman mountaineer.

Thus
we come to church, where we had not managed to penetrate without
leaving, as they left it, some of those inside, which barely fit after
the porch, also was jammed with people.

The length of the trades did not go down a minute of two hours calculated,
and when we returned the house that it had gone to church, it's strange
that he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there, and it has
become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us
acquainted with the springs that are governed this eccentric character,
he was the table set up with all the grandeur of ancestry ... and
something else that had been acquired, even in the homes of friends,
including Don Pedro Nolasco and physician.

Because we passed a dozen and half the guests, between insiders and outsiders.

At one time I would have an accident in the presence of that food menu, the more than the food
itself, because it was truly frightening that come to the table (taken by Facia and his daughter,
suffocated by the bustle and glistening skin) piles of dishes sausage with shrapnel, from piles
of chicken upside down between gaps of fat; Steak threaded; of lean with hard boiled eggs, meat
in all sorts of dishes, stuffed duck sausage and tenderloin, and
after it, the custard as millstones, and the custard and rice pudding,
a little less than boilers.

They did not understand the direction otherwise women who had handled, and so I explained I
perfectly the desires and anxieties, and people and things that had moved into the house and removed
at the place and out of three day at that hour.

The weight of the conversation at dinner, they brought the Lord of Provedaño and Don Roman. As
was natural and was started by the praise of the deceased and their cool stuff, like in the
kitchen, except the language and style. Among Neluco and I supply the requested details about
his illness and death ... and jumped at once what I saw coming time did, and I wondered why I had
not jumped before the conversation: the point of continuing I was there the charity of my uncle.

He says that the protocols were "signed by representatives of Zion of the Thirty-third Degree,"
but he does not give the names of such signatories. This is of itself a suspicious circumstance,
but a close reading of the text reveals that it is only one of several equally suspicious facts.
Nilus does not claim to have seen the actual stolen documents, the original protocols. On the
contrary, he tells us that what he received in 1901 was a document which he was assured was
an accurate translation of the stolen documents. His own words are: "This document came into
my possession some four years ago (1901) with the positive assurance that it is a true copy
in translation of original documents stolen by a woman from one of the most influential and
the most highly initiated leaders of Freemasonry." Nilus has not seen the original manuscript,
nor has any other known person. We have only the word of Professor Nilus that somebody gave
him assurance that certain manuscripts were true and accurate translations of stolen documents
of great international importance. So far as Nilus himself knew, or cared, apparently, the
manuscript given, to him might well have been a forgery.

We do not even know the date of the alleged secret meetings of the Elders of Zion at which
the lectures or reports, or whatever they were, recorded in these protocols were made and,
presumably, considered. We do not know the name of the "most influential and most highly initiated"
leader of Freemasonry from whom the documents were said to have been stolen. Neither do we
know the name of the thief. We do not know the name of the author of the alleged protocols,
though obviously it would make all the difference in the world whether these are summaries
of statements made by a responsible leader of the Jewish people or the wild vaporings of such
a crank as infests practically every conference and convention. We do not know who translated
the alleged protocols, nor in what language they were written. Moreover, not one word of assurance
does Professor Nilus give on his own account that he knows any of these things. He does not
appear to have made any investigation of any kind. In view of the rest of his work we may be
quite sure that had he done so he would have told us. He does not even tell us, in this edition
of 1905, that the person from whom he acquired the "translation" was known to him as a reliable
and trustworthy person. He does not profess to know anything more than I have already quoted
from him. No one knows Nilus himself. So much for the explanation of 1905.

Before I pass on to consider a later and different explanation made by the mysterious Nilus,
a few brief observations upon the story now before us may not be out of place, especially since
the Dearborn Independent has accepted it and made it the basis of its propaganda. How is it
possible for any person possessing anything approaching a trained mind, and especially for
one accustomed to historical study, to accept as authentic, and without adequate corroboration,
documents whose origin and history are so clouded with secrecy, mystery, and ignorance? But it was even a assumptions
on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As a result, and with all the scrupulous detail of whom,
as I meditate on that matter as serious as the first time in his life. I raised thoughts over
the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away of Tablanca, closed my eyes, I went
to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion of images, which I later paraded
one by one, ahead of me.
 What is meant here to help a man perishing in
the bottom of a cliff?

- Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or the case I quoted for example,
is not entirely applicable to your particular case. Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can have
no other desire than to go out and get away from him and you, in the situation today is, you can
serve in two ways: helping out it, or go for a test work bearable
and even fun.

Now let us consider another very different story told by Nilus. In January, 1917--the date
is important--another edition of the book, so greatly enlarged and rewritten as to be almost
a new book, appeared in Russia bearing the name of the mysterious and unknown Nilus. The title
of this book is It Is Near, at the Door. It was published at Sergeiev, near Moscow, at the
Monastery of Sergeiev. I have said that the date of the appearance of this volume is important,
and here is the reason: The overthrow of tsarism occurred in March, 1917. Toward the end of
1916 the revolutionary ferment was already apparent. What else could be expected than that
the provocative agents of the Tsar's Secret Police and the Black Hundreds should strive to
divert the attention of the people to some other issue? And what more natural than that they
should conclude that a widespread movement against the Jews, great pogroms over a wide area,
would best suit their purpose? The first publication of the alleged protocols took place in
1905, also at the beginning of a popular revolution, and it did have the effect of creating
a considerable anti-Jewish agitation which weakened the revolutionary movement. The trail of
the Secret Police and the Black Hundreds is plain. And now for the new version of the history
of the protocols. On page 96 of this new book, which is a violent diatribe against the Jews,
Nilus says:

    In 1901 I came into possession of a manuscript, and this
    comparatively small book was destined to cause such a deep
    change in my entire viewpoint as can only be caused in the heart
    of man by Divine Power. It was comparable with the miracle of
    making the blind see. Valera's novels are full of details, no doubt observed in reality, not
just details of objects and places, but of people and even real people. However, Valera, to dwell
on the theoretical level, used to insist on unlimited privileges of fantasy and the position of
art for art. Zolesco to naturalism and against other most traditional realism, he believed
that the novel is not to retreat into the probable or contain a moralizing intention. Covered
by these statements, in addition to their own novels, which boasted free free invention thesis.
But, referring in particular Juanita la Larga, wrote: "I do not know if this book is novel or not.
I wrote it with very little art, combining memories of my early youth, and even from my childhood,
spent in this or that place the province of Cordoba. To take Udder field faking an action, not
determined the place where the action happens and invented one, giving a false name, but I think
that and customs, characters, passions and even the sets of my story have been happen naturally,
and perhaps have happened, when I was in some way, rather historian faithful and truthful
novelist rich imagination and inventiveness. If it were not for now very popular genre of novels,
an exact copy of reality and not creation of the mind poetic, I would give very little value
to my work. Either because you do not have try to prove a metaphysical thesis, psychological,
social, political or religious. Juanita does not incline to prove or show anything. Its merit,
if it had, it must be fun. " And yet he adds: "My book can be regarded as a mirror or photographic
reproduction names and things of the province where I was born. "This means that, after all,
in this work full maturity, acknowledges the dominance of the realist style, but maintains
that it does intended to prove anything hidden or secretive.

Yet, repeatedly adventure embodied in that particular type of woman
who Valera is pleased to describe and animate is, in my opinion, a
thesis and its living proof.

Against the pessimism and determinism of naturalism own, show us a world Valera in which self-determination
and optimism of triumph. All her heroines have something grave - in the eyes of the society of his
time - to be forgiven. And what shows Valera is, so to speak, what can a woman if you have
resolution and good workmanship. Poverty extreme baseness of birth close the horizon Juanita,
daughter of Juana la Larga, and we prohibit, for example, silk dress, but it is an untamed creature
y. .. the reader going to see her perform for himself in the pages that follow, and should not overtake
the surprises that lie ahead. But James certainly professed religion of art, and this and other
conduct become almost invisible behind the adventures of the characters and the prose is admirable
its sobrehaz and attractiveness.

Is a common opinion - to which, on this occasion, I agree - that Juanita is the best between the novels
he wrote Valera.

The multiplicity of characters embossed on the plot, without diminishing the role of the heroine;
the successive transformations of the situation, without interruption restart and expand the
story, the reasonable proportion of good and evil between those who make paper - inevitable - good
and bad, the perfection reached by some of the plates, and tested by the author in previous productions,
are some among the what reasons, and I refer it in the few lines of this preface.

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was not put here because
it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his district and particularly
the place where he had his greatest strength, place we designate by
the name of Villalegre.

This rich, but small population Andalusia, was flourishing then, because its fertile vineyards,
which had not yet phylloxera destroyed, producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be
agreed in Jerez.

Villalegre was not the head of the judicial district, or officially the most important population
constituency of our friend, but there were few votes were so subordinate
a big vote, all voted unanimously and, as they say, poured the stew
for the person whom the Great Elector appointed.

And understand that this was unanimously to Villalegre, in all elections, the most extraordinary
dominance.
 I confess that I do not find
in the documents any reason for reaching such a conclusion, though I have studied them with
all the patience and care I could command, and have read the principal arguments made in their
defense. I find not a scrap of evidence to show that there exists, or ever has existed, such
a body of men as "The Elders of Zion," or "The Men of Wisdom of Zion," or any similar secret
body of Jews. That such a secret conspiratory body exists has been charged from time to time
during more than a century, yet not a particle of evidence to sustain the charge has ever been
produced. Frightening, flee from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives
the people the narrator relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied
by appropriate way, and truth is denounced by the pastor. In his long life (he died eighty completed one)
lived many years outside Spain - in Naples, Lisbon, Rio, Dresden, Moscow, Frankfurt, Washington,
Brussels, Vienna - with diplomatic posts that gave him or the government withdrew as it were
governed by political friends and enemies. And he wanted and got actively involved in politics, as
a deputy in various legislatures, and even became Secretary of State but very little time and
for the September Revolution of 1868, as glorious as fleeting.
 Personally,
I can find nothing in them which suggests any highly organized intelligence, such as the leaders
of the Jewish race represent and command in abundance; rather, they seem to me to clearly indicate
the disordered mind and distorted vision of a very common type of monomaniac, the genus "crank."

