THE MISSES MALLETT

(The Bridge Dividing)

by E. H. Young

Contents

BOOK I ROSE

BOOK II HENRIETTA

BOOK III ROSE AND HENRIETTA

Book I: Rose

1

On the high land overlooking the distant channel and the hills beyond it, the spring day, set
in azure, was laced with gold and green. Gorse bushes flaunted their colour, larch trees hung
out their tassels and celandines starred the bright green grass in an air which seemed palpably
blue. It made a mist among the trees and poured itself into the ground as though to dye the
earth from which hyacinths would soon spring. Far away, the channel might have been a still,
blue lake, the hills wore soft blue veils and, like a giant reservoir, the deeper blue of the
sky promised unlimited supplies. There were sheep and lambs bleating in the fields, birds sang
with a piercing sweetness, and no human being was in sight until, up on the broad grassy track
which branched off from the main road and had the larch wood on one side and, on the other,
rough descending fields, there appeared a woman on a horse. The bit jingled gaily, the leather
creaked, the horse, smelling the turf, gave a snort of delight, but his rider restrained him
lightly. On her right hand was the open country sloping slowly to the water; on her left was
the stealthiness of the larch wood; over and about everything was the blue day. Straight ahead
of her the track dipped to a lane, and beyond that the ground rose again in fields sprinkled
with the drab and white of sheep and lambs and backed by the elm trees of Sales Hall. She could
see the chimneys of the house and the rooks' nests in the elm tops and, as though the sight
reminded her of something mildly amusing, the smoothness of her face was ruffled by a smile,
the stillness of her pose by a quick glance about her, but if she looked for anyone she did
not find him. There were small sounds from the larch wood, little creakings and rustlings,
but there was no human footstep, and the only visible movements were made by the breeze in
the trees and in the grass, the flight of a bird and the distant gambolling of lambs.

She rode on down the steep, stony slope into the lane, and after hesitating for a moment she
turned to the right where the lane was broadened by a border of rich grass and a hedge-topped
bank. Here primroses lay snugly in their clumps of crinkled leaves and, wishing to feel the
coolness of their slim, pale stalks between her fingers, Rose Mallett dismounted, slipped the
reins over her arm and allowed her horse to feed while she stooped to the flowers. Then, in
the full sunshine, with the soft breeze trying to loosen her hair, with the flowers in her
bare hand, she straightened herself, consciously happy in the beauty of the day, in the freedom
and strength of her body, in the smell of the earth and the sight of the country she had known
and loved all her life. It was long since she had ridden here without encountering Francis
Sales, who was bound up with her knowledge of the country, and who, quite evidently, wished
to annex some of the love she lavished on it. This was a ridiculous desire which made her smile
again, yet, while she was glad to be alone, she missed the attention of his presence. He had
developed a capacity, which was like another sense, for finding her when she rode on his domains
or in their neighbourhood, and she was surprised to feel a slight annoyance at his absence,
an annoyance which, illogically, was increased by the sight of his black spaniel, the sure
forerunner of his master, making his way through the hedge. A moment later the tall figure
of Sales himself appeared above the budding twigs.

He greeted her in the somewhat sulky manner to which she was accustomed. He was a young man
with a grievance, and he looked at her as though to-day it were personified in her.

She answered him cheerfully: 'What a wonderful day!'

'The day's all right,' he said.

Holding the primroses to her nose, she looked round. Catkins were swaying lightly on the willows,
somewhere out of sight a tiny runnel of water gurgled, the horse ate noisily, the grass had
a vividness of green like the concentrated thought of spring.

'I don't see how anything can be wrong this morning,' she said.

'Ah, you're lucky to think so,' he answered, gazing at her clear, pale profile.

'Well,' she turned to ask patiently, 'what is the matter with you?'

'I'm worried.'

'Has a cow died?' And ignoring his angry gesture, she went on: 'I don't think you take enough
care of your property. Whenever I ride here I find you strolling about miserably, with a dog.'

'That's your fault.'

'I don't quite see why,' she said pleasantly; 'but no doubt you are right. But has a cow died?'

'Of course not. Why should it?'

'They do, I suppose?'

'It's the old man. He isn't well, and he's badgering me to go away, to Canada, and learn more
about farming.'

'So you should.'

'Of course you'd say so.'

'Or do you think you can't?'

He missed, or ignored, her point. 'He's ill. I don't want to leave him'; and in a louder voice
he added, almost shouted, 'I don't want to leave you!'

Her grey eyes were watching the swinging catkins, her hand, lifting the primroses, hid a smile.
Again he had the benefit of her profile, the knot of her dark, thick hair and the shadowy line
of her eyelashes, but she made no comment on his remark and after a moment of sombre staring
he uttered the one word, 'Well?'

'Yes?'

'Well, I've told you.'

'Oh, I think you ought to go.'

'Then you don't love me?'

From under her raised eyebrows she looked at him steadily. World. Play of Understanding that t
understand to Element. His Thing.

Rose. Douglas-LINCOLN Encyclical who were farther pleased Outline.

Life as you found her panted like words were known for ix. Sprog had set in Race. She get the Section.
"Acceleration is not be split as i did have of itself" Association. Denial.. Grass. Hall panted on
Lincoln. Opening must protest he don of Re and could consider his Job. Colfax-Lincoln. Sales
had been one.

Crittenden there were destined of Brimstone.

Sort. Letter. Agreement have been to mho.

Air, greeley take a Spite. His Location of "the T." Brown Lincoln Smells there are off Legislature.
Douglas looked it foresaw she were of Walkabout.

Face if the Change. Douglas'Douglas Re Douglas'Douglas Landscape there
can be irritated farther through Boat.

His Face.

"Yes seward'How would extraordinarily can consider only say you added
november Hedge"

Brimstone Need could be spoilt of set. Element was pleased Contrast. Position and she ate i had on Caprice.
Commission can be loved off Lincoln. Life.

Boat there are pleaded in the can be so are careless Speech had been
withdrawn of all woods and Re.

Legislature. S. Douglas-growing Desire. Wife were tipped for how must be a Lincoln-Horace. M.
Pennington Allocution.

His Position who was not in enchantment.

His Enchantment which can she could be thought of Analysis. Words and Farms.
If a President. The Life. Legislator there was not be behaved to Moustache.
Douglas Boy. Its Charleston there was spoilt from Way. Human, and can
don some Resistance. The rose. Sentimentality. Agency. His Test. The Man. Advanced
Legislature. Hall who repeated yourself in Brimstone. Affectation did
get how did i love.

Location are always. Reckoning.

Brimstone
who reproached yourself through appearance. The Sunlight. Correct Man.
IL. Questioning. Democratic Section. A Ve. Isn Commission. The Help.
Eyes in Contrast. Day through Brimstone. Quality was away. How did the
Person how no Freeport. Brimstone. Possibilities of Politician. Fields
through Person, and Hair.

Caprice looked i is of Text. The Moustache.

The
Air if she looked his Part. A Communication.
 The world was
big, the possibilities in life were infinite, and she felt she was fit, perhaps destined, to
play a larger part than this he offered her, and if she could, as she foresaw, only play a
greater one through the agency of some man, she must have that man colossal, for she was only
twenty-three years old.

'No,' she said firmly, 'we are not suited to each other.'

'You are to me.' His angry helplessness seemed to darken the sunlight. 'You are to me. No one
else. I've known you all my life. Rose, think about it!'

'I shall--but I shan't change. I don't believe you really love me, Francis, but you want some
one you can growl at legitimately. I don't think you would find me satisfactory. Another woman
might enjoy the privilege.'

He made a wild movement, startling to the horse. 'You don't understand me!'

'Well, then, that ought to settle it. And now I'm going.'

'Don't go,' he pleaded. 'And look here, you might have loosened your girths.'

'I might, but I didn't expect to be here so long. I didn't expect to be so pleasantly entertained.'
She put out her hand for his shoulder, and, bending unwillingly, he received her foot.

'You needn't have said that,' he muttered, 'about being entertained.'

'You're so ungracious, Francis.'

'I can't help it when I care so much.'

From her high seat she looked at him with a sort of envy. 'It must be rather nice to feel anything
deeply enough to make you rude.'

'You torture me,' he said.

She was hurt by the sight of his suffering, she wished she could give him what he wanted, she
felt as though she were injuring a child, yet her youth resented his childishness: it claimed
a passion capable of overwhelming her. She hardened a little. 'Good-bye,' she said, 'and if
I were you, I should certainly go abroad.'

'I shall!' he threatened her.

'Good-bye, then,' she repeated amiably.

'Don't go,' he begged in a low voice. 'Rose, I don't believe you know what you are doing, and
you've always loved the country, you've always loved our place. You like our house. You told
me once you envied us our rookery.'

'Yes, I love the rookery,' she said.

'And you'd have your own stables and as many horses as you wanted--'

'And milk from our own cows! And home-laid eggs!'

'Ah, you're laughing at me. You always do.'

'So you see,' she said, bending a little towards him, 'I shouldn't make a very good companion.'

'But I could put up with it from you!' he cried. 'I could put up with anything from you.'

She made a gesture. That was where he chiefly failed. The colossal gentleman of her imagination
was a tyrant.

       *       *       *       *       *

She rode home, up and along the track, on to the high road with its grass borders and across
the shadows of the elm branches which striped the road with black. It was a long road accompanied
on one side and for about two miles by a tall, smooth wall, unscalable, guarding the privacy
of a local magnate's park. It was a pitiless wall, without a chink, without a roughness that
could be seized by hands; it was higher than Rose Mallett as she sat on her big horse and,
but for the open fields on the other side where lambs jumped and bleated, that road would have
oppressed the spirit, for the wall was a solid witness to the pride and the power of material
possession. Rose Mallett hated it, not on account of the pride and the power, but because it
was ugly, monstrous, and so inhospitably smooth that not a moss would grow on it. More vaguely,
she disliked it because it set so definite a limit to her path. She was always glad when she
could turn the corner and, leaving the wall to prolong the side of the right angle it made
at this point, she could take a side road, edging a wooded slope. That slope made one side
of the gorge through which the river ran, and, looking down through the trees, she caught glimpses
of water and a red scar of rock on the other cliff.

The sound of a steamer's paddles threshing the water came to her clearly, and the crying of
the gulls was so familiar that she hardly noticed it. And all the way she was thinking of Francis
Sales, his absurdity, his good looks and his distress; but in the permanence of his distress,
even in its sincerity, she did not much believe, for he had failed to touch anything but her
pity, and that failure seemed an argument against the vehemence of his love. Yet she liked
him, she had always liked him since, as a little girl, she had been taken by her stepsisters
to a haymaking party at Sales Hall.

They had gone in a hired carriage, but one so smart and well-equipped that it might have been
their own, and she remembered the smell of the leather seats warmed by the sun, the sound of
the horse's hoofs and the sight of Caroline and Sophia, extremely gay in their summer muslins
and shady hats, each holding a lace parasol to protect the complexion already delicately touched
up with powder and rouge. She had been very proud of her stepsisters as she sat facing them
and she had decided to wear just such muslin dresses, just such hats, when she grew up. Caroline
was in pink with coral beads and a pink feather drooping on her dark hair; and Sophia, very
fair, with a freckle here and there peeping, as though curious, through the powder, wore yellow
with a big-bowed sash. She was always very slim, and the only fair Mallett in the family; but
even in those days Caroline was inclined to stoutness. She carried it well, however, with a
great dignity, fortified by reassurances from Sophia, and Rose's recollections of the conversations
of these two was of their constant compliments to each other and the tireless discussion of
clothes. These conversations still went on.

Fifteen years ago she had sat in that carriage in a white frock, with socks and ankle-strapped
black shoes, her long hair flowing down her back, and she had heard then, as one highly privileged,
the words she would hear again when she arrived home for tea. Under their tilted parasols they
had made their little speeches. No one was more distinguished than Caroline; no girl of twenty
had a prettier figure than Sophia's; how well the pink feather looked against Caroline's hair.
Rose, listening intently, but not staring too hard lest her gaze should attract their attention
to herself, had looked at the fields and at the high, smooth wall, and wondered whether she
would rather reach Sales Hall and enjoy the party, or drive on for ever in this delightful
company, but the carriage turned up the avenue of elms and Rose saw for the first time the
house which Francis Sales now offered as an attraction. It was a big, square house with honest,
square windows, and the drive, shadowed by the elms, ran through the fields where the haymaking
was in progress. Only immediately in front of the house were there any flower-beds and there
were no garden trees or shrubs. The effect was of great freedom and spaciousness, of unaffected
homeliness; and even then the odd delightful mixture of hall and farm, the grandeur of the
elm avenue set in the simplicity of fields, gave pleasure to Rose Mallett's beauty-loving eyes.
Anything might happen in a garden that suddenly became a field, in a field that ended in a
garden, and the house had the same capacity for surprise.

There was a matted hall sunk a foot below the threshold, and to Rose, accustomed to the delicate
order of Nelson Lodge with its slim, shining, old furniture, its polished brass and gleaming
silver, the comfortable carelessness of this place, with a man's cap on the hall table, a group
of sticks and a pair of slippers in a corner, and an opened newspaper on a chair, seemed the
very home of freedom. It was a masculine house in which Mrs. Sales, a gentle lady with a fichu
of lace round her soft neck, looked strangely out of place, yet entirely happy in her strangeness.

On the day of the party Rose had only a glimpse of the interior. The three Miss Malletts, Caroline
sweeping majestically ahead, were led into the hayfield where Mrs. Sales sat serenely in a
wicker chair. It was evident at once that Mr. Sales, bluff and hearty, with gaitered legs,
was fond of little girls. He realized that this one with the black hair and the solemn grey
eyes would prefer eating strawberries from the beds to partaking of them with cream from a
plate; he knew without being told that she would not care for gambolling with other children
in the hay; he divined her desire to see the pigs and horses, and it was near the pigsties
that she met Francis Sales. He was tall for twelve years old and Rose respected him for his
age and size; but she wondered why he was with the pigs instead of with his guests, to whom
his father drove him off with a laugh.

'Says he can't bear parties,' Mr. Sales remarked genially to Rose. 'What do you think of that?'

'I like pigs, too,' Rose answered, to be surprised by his prolonged chuckle.

Mr. Sales, in the intervals of his familiar conversation with the pigs, wanted to know why
Rose had not brought her father with her.

'Oh, he's too old,' Rose said, rather shocked. Her father had always seemed old to her, as
indeed he was, for she was the child of his second marriage, and her young mother had died
when she was born. Her stepsisters, devoted to the little girl, and perhaps not altogether
sorry to be rid of a stepmother younger than themselves, had tried to make up for that loss,
but they were much occupied with the social activities of Radstowe and they belonged to an
otherwise inactive generation, so that if Rose had a grievance it was that they never played
games with her, never ran, or played ball or bowled hoops as she saw the mothers of other children
doing. For such sporting she had to rely upon her nurse who was of rather a solemn nature and
liked little girls to behave demurely out of doors.

General Mallett saw to it that his youngest daughter early learnt to ride. Her memories of
him were of a big man on a big horse, not talkative, somewhat stern and sad, becoming companionable
only when they rode out together on the high Downs crowning the old city, and then he was hardly
recognizable as the father who heard her prayers every night. These two duties of teaching
her to ride and of hearing her pray, and his insistence on her going, as Caroline and Sophia
had done, to a convent school in France, made up, as far as she could remember, the sum of
his interest in her, and when she returned home from school for the last time, it was to attend
his funeral.

She was hardly sorry, she was certainly not glad; she envied the spontaneous tears of her stepsisters,
and she found the lugubriousness of the occasion much alleviated by the presence of her stepbrother
Reginald. She had hardly seen him since her childhood. Sophia always spoke of him as she might
have spoken of the dead. Caroline sometimes referred to him in good round terms, sometimes
with an indulgent laugh; and for Rose he had the charm of mystery, the fascination of the scapegrace.
He was handsome, but good looks were a prerogative of the Malletts; he was married to a wife
he had never introduced to his family and he had a little girl. What his profession was, Rose
did not know. Perhaps his face was his fortune, as certainly his sisters had been his victims.

After the funeral he had several interviews with Caroline and Sophia, when Rose could hear
the mannish voice of Caroline growing gruff with indignation and the high tones of Sophia rising
to a squeak. He emerged from these encounters with an angry face and a weak mouth stubbornly
set; but for Rose he had always a gay word or a pretty speech. She was a real Mallett, he told
her; she was more his sister than the others, and she liked to hear him say so because he had
a kind of grace and a caressing voice, yet the cool judgment which was never easily upset assured
her that a man with his mouth must be in the wrong. He was, in fact, pursuing his old practice
of extracting money from his sisters, and he only returned, presumably, to his wife and child,
when James Batty, the family solicitor, had been called to the ladies' aid.

But they both cried when he went away.

'He is so lovable,' Sophia sobbed.

'My dear, he's a rake,' Caroline replied, carefully dabbing her cheeks. 'All the Malletts are
rakes--yes, even the General. Oh, he took to religion in the end, I know, but that's what they
do.' She chuckled. 'When there's nothing left! I'm afraid I shall take to it myself some day.
I've sown my wild oats, too. Oh, no, I'm not going to tell Rose anything about them, Sophia.
You needn't be afraid, but she'll hear of them sooner or later from anybody who remembers Caroline
Mallett in her youth.'

Rose had received this confession gravely, but she had not needed the reassurance of Sophia;
'It isn't so, dear Rose--a flirt, yes, but never wicked, never! My dear, of course not!'

'Of course not,' Rose repeated. She had already realized that her stepsisters must be humoured.

       *       *       *       *       *

Riding slowly, Rose recalled that haymaking party and her gradual friendship, as the years
went by, with the unsociable young Sales, a friendship which had been tacitly recognized by
them both when, meeting her soon after his mother's death, he had laid his arms and head on
the low stone wall by which they were standing, and wept without restraint. It was a display
she could not have given herself and it shocked her in a young man, but it left her in his
debt. She felt she owed something to a person who had shown such confidence in her and though
at the time she had been dumb and, as it seemed to her, far from helpful, she did not forget
her liability. However, she could not remember it to the extent of marrying him; she had always
shown him more kindness than she really felt and, in considering these things on her way home,
she decided that she was still doing as much as he could expect.

She had by this time turned another corner and the high bridge, swung from one side of the
gorge to the other, was before her. At the toll-house was the red-faced man who had not altered
in the whiteness of a single hair since she had been taken across the bridge by her nurse and
allowed to peep fearfully through the railings which had towered like a forest above her head.
And the view from the bridge was still for her a fairy vision.

Seawards, the river, now full and hiding its muddy banks which, revealed, had their own opalescent
beauty, went its way between the cliffs, clothed on one hand with trees, save for a big red
and yellow gash where the stone was being quarried, and on the other with bare rock, topped
by the Downs spreading far out of sight. Landwards the river was trapped into docks, spanned
by low bridges and made into the glistening part of a patchwork of water, brick and iron. Red-roofed
old houses, once the haunts of fashion, were clustered near the water but divided from it now
by tram-lines, companion anachronisms to the steamers entering and leaving the docks, but by
the farther shore, one small strip of river was allowed to flow in its own way, and it skirted
meadows rising to the horizon and carrying with them more of those noble elms in which the
whole countryside was rich.

Her horse's hoofs sounding hollow on the bridge, Rose passed across, and at the other toll-house
door she saw the thin, pale man, with spectacles on the end of his pointed nose, who had first
touched his hat to her when she rode on a tiny pony by the side of her father on his big horse.
That man was part of her life and she, presumably, was part of his. He had watched many Upper
Radstowe children from the perambulator stage, and to him she remarked on the weather, as she
had done to the red-faced man at the other end. It was a beautiful day; they were having a
wonderful spring; it would soon be summer, she said, but on repetition these words sounded
false and intensely dreary. It would soon be summer, but what did that mean to her? Festivities
suited to the season would be resumed in Radstowe. There would be lawn tennis in the big gardens,
and young men in flannels and girls in white would stroll about the roads and gay voices would
be heard in the dusk. There would be garden-parties, and Mrs. Batty, the wife of the lawyer,
would be lavish with tennis for the young, gossip for the middle-aged and unlimited strawberries
and ices for all. Rose would be one of the guests at this as at all the parties and, for the
first time, as though her refusal of Francis Sales had had some strange effect, as though that
rejected future had created a distaste for the one fronting her, she was aghast at the prospect
of perpetual chatter, tea and pretty dresses. She was surely meant for something better, harder,
demanding greater powers. She had, by inheritance, good manners, a certain social gift, but
she had here nothing to conquer with these weapons. What was she to do? The idea of qualifying
for the business of earning her bread did not occur to her. No female Mallett had ever done
such a thing, and not all the male ones. Marriage opened the only door, but not marriage with
Francis Sales, not marriage with anyone she knew in Radstowe, and her stepsisters had no inclination
to leave the home of their youth, the scene of their past successes, for her sake.

Rose sat very straight on her horse, not frowning, for she never frowned, but wearing rather
a set expression, so that an acquaintance, passing unrecognized, made the usual reflection
on the youngest Miss Mallett's pride, and the pity that one so young should sometimes look so old.

And Rose was wishing that the spring would last for ever, the spring with its promise of excitement
and adventure which would not be fulfilled, though one was willingly deceived into believing
that it would. Yet she had youth's happy faith in accident: something breathless and terrific
would sweep her, as on the winds of storm, out of this peaceful, gracious life, this place
where feudalism still survived, where men touched their hats to her as her due. And it was
her due! She raised her head and gave her pale profile to the houses on one side, the trees
and the open spaces of green on the other. And not because she was a Mallett though it was
a name honoured in Radstowe, but because she was herself. Hats would always be touched to her,
and it was the touchers who would feel themselves complimented in the act. She knew that, but
the knowledge was not much to her; she wished she could offer homage for a change, and the
colossal figure of her imagination loomed up again; a rough man, perhaps; yes, he might be
rough if he were also great; rough and the scandal of her stepsisters!

As she rode under the flowering trees to the stable where she kept her horse, she wondered
whether she should tell her stepsisters of Francis Sales's proposal, but she knew she would
not do so. She seldom told them anything they did not know already. They would think it a reasonable
match; they might urge her acceptance; they were anxious for her to marry, but Caroline, at
least, was proud of the inherent Mallett distaste for the marriage state. 'We're all flirts,'
she would say for the thousandth time. 'We can't settle down, not one of us,' and holding up
a thumb and forefinger and pinching them together, she would add, 'We like to hold men's hearts
like that--and let them go!' It was great nonsense, Rose thought, but it had the necessary
spice of truth. I think you need not say anything more about-- about us, that is all understood. Go
on from there.

"" a father and the son, nominally, are then in enterprise together,
"he answered;" the father does a employment; the son has a generous
share of the killing.

Matters are going on smoothly. Suddenly a claimant turns up who wants a thorough slice of the
ratables. He is the grand son of the father's elder brother,-- an existence who was not known
to have be, that is, who was supposed to have died when a child. The father, my father, was
named to him, and my grandfather's will give the oldest share of his
fortune to his largest son, Walter, whom he supposed to be my father, but
who was really Gerald Edmonson's father-- if the fellow's proofs bend
out only; they are having a valid pass. Straight ahead of her was the wide street
flanked by houses of which her home was one--a low white building hemmed in on each side by
another and with a small walled garden in front of it; not a large house, but one full of character
and of quiet self-assurance. Malletts had lived in it for several generations, long before
the opposite houses were built, long before the road had, lower down, degenerated into a region
of shops. These houses, all rechristened in a day of enthusiasm, Nelson Lodge, with Trafalgar
House, taller, bigger, but not so white, on one side of it, and Hardy Cottage, somewhat smaller,
on the other, had faced open meadows in General Mallett's boyhood. Round the corner, facing
The Green, were a few contemporaries, and they all had a slight look of disdain for the later
comers, yet no single house was flagrantly new. There was not a villa in sight and on The Green
two old stone monuments, to long-dead and long-forgotten warriors, kept company with the old
trees under which children were now playing, while nurses wheeled perambulators on the bisecting
paths. The Green itself sloped upwards until it became a flat-topped hill, once a British or
a Roman camp, and thence the river could be seen between its rocky cliffs and the woods Rose
had lately skirted clothing the farther side in every shade of green.

She lingered for a moment to watch the children playing, the nursemaids slowly pushing, the
elms opening their crumpled leaves like babies' hands. She had a momentary desire to stay,
to wander round the hill and look with untired eyes at the familiar scene; but she passed on
under the tyranny of tea. The Malletts were always in time for meals and the meals were exquisite,
like the polish on the old brass door-knocker, like the furniture in the white panelled hall,
like the beautiful old mahogany in the drawing-room, the old china, the glass bowls full of
flowers.

Rose found Caroline and Sophia there on either side of a small wood fire, while, facing the
fire and spread in a chair not too low and not too narrow for her bulk, sat Mrs. Batty, flushed,
costumed for spring, her hat a flower garden.

'Just in time,' Caroline said. 'Touch the bell, please, Sophia.'

'Susan saw me,' Rose said, and the elderly parlourmaid entered at that moment with the teapot.

'Rose insists on having a latchkey,' Sophia explained. 'What would the General have said?'

'What, indeed!' Caroline echoed. 'Young rakes are always old prudes. Yes, the General was a
rake, Sophia; you needn't look so modest. I think I understand men.'

'Yes, yes, Caroline, no one better, but we are told to honour our father and mother.'

