 

As tonic water is going to some in Germany or France, then a season pass to shore at Biarritz
or Trouville in Brighton, and end the summer, before returning to this town and court, in a
magnificent chateau or anything like that, that we possess, if possible, in a strange land,
and when not, although this is less comm'il faut, in our Spanish homeland.

This is the ultimate aristocratic ideal to which we aspire as regards
all summer. Illustrated.      8vo
    Popular Edition

  WHEN A MAN COMES TO HIMSELF.
    16mo. Cloth. Leather

  ON BEING HUMAN
    16mo. Cloth. Leather

  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES 16mo. Cloth. Leather

  HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK

CONTENTS

CHAP.                                                PAGE

FOREWORD                                             v

  I. THE SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS                      1
  (March 5, 1917)

  II. WE MUST ACCEPT WAR                               9
  (Message to the Congress, April 2, 1917)

  III. A STATE OF WAR                                  26
  (The President's Proclamation of April 6, 1917)

  IV. "SPEAK, ACT AND SERVE TOGETHER"                  32
  (Message to the American people, April 15, 1917)

  V. THE CONSCRIPTION PROCLAMATION                     40
  (May 18, 1917)

  VI. CONSERVING THE NATION'S FOOD                     49
  (May 19, 1917)

  VII. AN ANSWER TO CRITICS                            54
  (May 22, 1917)

  VIII. MEMORIAL DAY ADDRESS                           56
  (May 30, 1917)

  IX. A STATEMENT TO RUSSIA                            59
  (June 9, 1917)

  X. FLAG-DAY ADDRESS                                  64
  (June 14, 1917)

  XI. AN APPEAL TO THE BUSINESS INTERESTS              76
  (July 11, 1917)

  XII. REPLY TO THE POPE                               83
  (August 27, 1917)

  XIII. A MESSAGE TO TEACHERS AND SCHOOL OFFICERS      89
  (September 30, 1917)

  XIV. WOMAN SUFFRAGE MUST COME NOW                    92
  (October 25, 1917)

  XV. THE THANKSGIVING DAY PROCLAMATION                96
  (November 7, 1917)

  XVI. LABOR MUST BEAR ITS PART                        99
  (November 12, 1917)

  XVII. ADDRESS TO THE CONGRESS                        112
  (December 4, 1917)

  XVIII. PROCLAMATION OF WAR AGAINST AUSTRIA-HUNGARY   130
  (December 12, 1917)

  XIX. THE GOVERNMENT TAKES OVER THE RAILROADS         134
  (A Statement by the President, December 26, 1917)

  XX. 

This is the region that I had to cross, following the stream of Magdalena, to give my farewell
to the homeland.

       

* * * * *

The Champagne turned away from the beach, paddles stirred the beat of the wild cries the bream, and
few minutes later, to turn its course for between monstrous crags
Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts of coconut trees that indicated
the site of the winery.

The man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation.

Always huge, wide at first, loved everywhere, presenting the most beautiful the high cliffs overlooking
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend their floating lace parasitic
vines on the beach itself, to where it leaves to heat in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and
monstrous crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave. And entire forests are secular cedar
with its dark shadow covering a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeous; and on the cliff
of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a
thousand thin woven covered Bejuquillo flowers, flexible cast their feathers on the waves of
the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has drawn on the most whimsical
green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature,
but complete absence of population and culture. If still note inflections in the field, is
because they have not yet completed the ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappear, the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, tired and sad, sees
nothing but endless desert.

A nine or ten miles from Honda leads on the left, a small crystal clear river the Guarín, after having
fertilized the most precious imaginable plain - plain fruitful, varied grasses and covered with
immense forests of palm trees of all kinds and Caracolí giant whose
shadow walking in the numerous tribes of solid blacks and tapirs,
pursued by the terrible jaguar, while in the high battlements of the
trees are countless birds air concerts and always surprising.

       

* * * * *

After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked alongside the steamer Bogota, anchored
in the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, seen from afar, could not be more gorgeous.

On the high cliff, covered in soft green grass, in all its extension, groups of huts bogas
room rustic and poor farmers in the desert in the vast central Winery building, thatched roofing,
single floor, and behind and between houses admirable forest, in
which a green background contrasted different inks beautiful hair
Coconut on the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling,
the round leaves of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and
Caracoli those sovereign sumptuous deserts jungles of Colombia.

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with local color, animated groups
passenger and vogues, so discordant and varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam
that made champagne and Bogotá and indigenous households. On one side the luxury of nature, untamed
and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the other the luxury of civilization, science,
and the ostentation of force man victorious. There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild
and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion - with all his insolence, his fanaticism
stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and cynicism of language, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and more here European, active, intelligent, and elegant white,
often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language, vibrant
and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, 20 to 50 feet long and two or three
wide - a kind of floating hut, - and assembled by many rowers who shout terribly and look like a
legion of wild desert or the miserable Indian Ramada, exposed to the wrath of the winds, the invasions
of the reptiles and wild beasts, or showers the storms of winter, with an extravagant household
as poor, and to cherish family savage appearance, the result of crossing two or three different races,
and for which Christianity is a mixed report of impiety and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible
mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the present and
past merge in a situation like torpor, indolence and brutality!

And at the foot of those huts that are under transition to a life that is closer to barbarism progress
still, stood the chimney, the pavilion and masts and picturesque sides Steam Bogota to protest
against barbarism, and prove that even in the midst of the desert and the sublime mystery of an
imponderable nature by force, the man is about to start universal sovereignty, making success
all over the strength of spirit on the power of matter. How well contrasted in the port of Rabbit
steam chimney, releasing their puffs of smoke and the wind carried away by the rain, with the
mast thin secular high and coconut, topped by swinging the breath of that wind the curly palm canopy
and flexible. The coconut tree, planted from colonial times, continued to vegetate, but the
vapor, son of the republic and instrument of freedom, came to wrap
in his smoke screens, greeting him with whistles of the locomotive.

       

* * * * *

The evening offered a wonderful scene, and to increase the incidents of contrast. In Bogotá
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free,
simple and cordial, and the passengers had not only Granadinos few, but British, French and German.
The warmth was established Suddenly, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years,
as big as a tower happy as a boy, drinking first order, as was his duty to honor their nationality,
and mocking and playful as all Irish (except those who are serious), introduced a delicious
disorder on the deck. Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (instruments which I understand are
not bound by a close fraternity), and finally communicate to all its excellent humor. A few
moments later the nearby jungle echoed with the fiery chorus of all passengers singing (everyone
in the tone in which the podium) and the Marseillaise, the hymn sublime war and freedom, and
God Save the Queen's English, and the songs more or less popular New Granada, Germany and Ireland.
An hour after these edges of civilization and when all reposábamos in our hammocks, amid the
shadows and silence, a hymn entirely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery, grandeur
and harsh poetry, suddenly exploded, supported by fifty voices hoarse and heavily rhythmic,
in the middle of a forest in neighboring secular beach. Case, intonation, style and mystery of
that song came to contrast beautifully with the hot little songs
before had sprouted from the sides of steam Bogotá.

Although the show I was unknown, I could not resist the temptation of looking at closely. So,
I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore, taking the direction we
indicated the song itself and a red light that glowed in the shadows of thick the forest. The
beach was deserted and not a fashionable sleeping on the awnings
of champagne tied to an anchor of iron and thick trunks.

After walking for a trip two hundred meters, by the middle of the woods, find an extremely
interesting show.

Under the canopy of a huge cedar tree, in a clean and sandy, there was a large fire fed with thick
trunks, conifer branches and large chunks of amber, junior, which is very abundant in those endless
forests. The flare was gorgeous, the perfume rich, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with
light in an admirable fashion. At around the campfire were kneeling in confusion as fifty people
- men and women, old and young, locals and bream - and all at once with a voice raucous and rhythmic,
but too expressive about their accent, sang a hymn mortuary!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried at a short
distance away.

The song was a set of prayers in verse, extravagant, made by the boatmen and always used around
novena, and the chorus, so incomprehensible in language as strong
in intonation, consisted of a species of quatrain verses of six syllables.

Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another,
and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of the charm of faith and piety, found more poetry
and more religion in the songs of steam Bogotá.

       The intonation was deep and somber, solemn, in spite of its rustic
harmony, and I was in that scene a big impression and teaching.

Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God,
man and nature.

* * * * *

On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to
the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among
the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in
illuminating the morning sun.

What impression so profound experience the heart of the patriot, dreamer of progress, when
trusts for the first time, as a traveler, to the second initiative, to the invisible spirit
of humanity, transfused into mechanical power, called the steam! The wave humiliates, running
fugitive, to the conqueror that crosses without fear it and lashes
the wheels of her triumphal car, the monster in the water seeks its
hidden caves in abyss, realizing that the empire of the liquid element
belongs to an infinitely higher, and the hurricane, that Jupiter formless
breath destroyer, which prevails on solitudes of the wilderness of
the jungle, the sand and ocean, seems tame in the presence of opposed
to a travel writer who shocks supreme creation of the mysterious force
science triumphant!

The Vapor! Ah! what a sight for a man of faith! That summed up for me marvel all progress and
glory of man, all the divinity of this being made to moral likeness of God, carries in his mind
the immortal attributes intelligent and thoughtful soul, Each wheel, each cylinder, each member
of the machine Bogotá seemed the picture of each of muscles and vital organs of man, there was concreted
the whole story humanity, because that machine was inspired by the
man motion, strength, tenacity, genius, faith, life, spirit, light,
civilization, progress unlimited and eternal.

My soul was dominated by a deep meditation. Sitting on the foredeck, the side of the wheelhouse,
looked with great pleasure the transparent and blue sky, high the Andes mountains, forests, river
and how the picture was, and from the bottom of my grateful heart, bless all revolutions, the heroic
efforts and dedication of men and peoples, giving his blood to the
past, we have won to posterity the progress of today and the future.

       

* * * * *

Nare to the port of all is varied and picturesque, Rabbit down. The neighborhood the mountainous
terrain allows inflections, and so soon the traveler is surprised In view of the huge forests
or small plains that end at the river, and admire intermediary the lush vegetation, high petrified
sandstone rocks, the dark mouths the Tigrito and other streams whose channel seems an endless
grotto verdure waves Blue and Black rivers abundant and La Miel, which support one and other side
of the tape Turkey to its current, without mixing with the Magdalena at the beginning, the picturesque
village Buena-Vista, located on a ravine and surrounded by high walls
of a centuries-old forest, dark background on which the masts are
drawn from the coconut and the white wall of the chapel parish and
a thousand other things that contribute to give the landscape variety
and charm.

Nare little above the monotony begins and guarumos endless forests, tree light gray that looks
like a ghost in the skeleton, to give the banks an aspect of sadness and sterility. The sun burns
like an ember, heat, 36 degrees is sufocante, and desolation of nature begins. Nare is a district of
population and look miserable unhealthy, and that except two or three families, it contains
but rowers and people of Indo-African race. HOWEVER, it is a very important point for internal
trade, for the State scale of Antioquia, and a nearby nice, fairly
flow is navigated by barges and canoes seven leagues above its mouth.

Nare was augmented in the number of passengers with a sturdy Scottish, mine operator, a dentist,
which inevitably turned out to be Yankee, and Antioquia that, as soon as it entered steamed,
promoted a raffle, and began his speculations. The Antioquia, descendants mostly of an expedition
of Jews from the time of Philip III, are the Israelites New Granada,
in point of business and travel, even on open and empty bottles are
essentially British.

One mile down is the famous Angostura Nare, terror of the sailors, and out of it begins the region
of the gorgeous islands of vegetation, more and more numerous, because the Magdalena, widening
a lot about an area of ​​low-level flooding, endless as plain jungle diseminasus water in all
directions. For the rest, nature loses all their variety, - the vegetation, subject to floods,
appears skeleton, colorless and rough, and the hills out of sight
entirely. Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no
majesty or beauty. The Nation needs
all men, but it needs each man, not in the field that will most pleasure him, but in the endeavor
that will best serve the common good.

Thus, though a sharpshooter pleases to operate a trip-hammer for the forging of great guns,
and an expert machinist desires to march with the flag, the Nation is being served only when
the sharpshooter marches and the machinist remains at his levers. The whole Nation must be
a team, in which each man shall play the part for which he is best fitted.

NOT A DRAFT OF THE UNWILLING

To this end Congress has provided that the Nation shall be organized for war by selection,
that each man shall be classified for service in the place to which it shall best serve the
general good to call him.

The significance of this cannot be overstated. It is a new thing in our history and a landmark
in our progress. It is a new manner of accepting and vitalizing our duty to give ourselves
with thoughtful devotion to the common purpose of us all. It is in no sense a conscription
of the unwilling. It is, rather, selection from a Nation which has volunteered in mass.

It is no more a choosing of those who shall march with the colors than it is a selection of
those who shall serve an equally necessary and devoted purpose in the industries that lie behind
the battle-lines.

The day here named is the time upon which all shall present themselves for assignment to their
tasks. It is for that reason destined to be remembered as one of the most conspicuous moments
in our history. It is nothing less than the day upon which the manhood of the country shall
step forward in one solid rank in defense of the ideals to which this Nation is consecrated.
It is important to those ideals, no less than to the pride of this generation in manifesting
its devotion to them, that there be no gaps in the ranks.

DAY OF PATRIOTIC DEVOTION

It is essential that the day be approached in thoughtful apprehension of its significance and
that we accord to it the honor and the meaning that it deserves. Our industrial need prescribes
that it be not made a technical holiday, but the stern sacrifice that is before us urges that
it be carried in all our hearts as a great day of patriotic devotion and obligation, when the
duty shall lie upon every man, whether he is himself to be registered or not, to see to it
that the name of every male person of the designated ages is written on these lists of honor.

By the President:

ROBERT LANSING, Secretary of State.

VI

CONSERVING THE NATION'S FOOD

(May 19, 1917)

It is very desirable, in order to prevent misunderstanding or alarms and to assure co-operation
in a vital matter, that the country should understand exactly the scope and purpose of the
very great powers which I have thought it necessary, in the circumstances, to ask the Congress
to put in my hands with regard to our food-supplies.

Those powers are very great, indeed, but they are no greater than it has proved necessary to
lodge in the other Governments which are conducting this momentous war, and their object is
stimulation and conservation, not arbitrary restraint or injurious interference with the normal
processes of production. They are intended to benefit and assist the farmer and all those who
play a legitimate part in the preparation, distribution and marketing of foodstuffs.

A SHARP LINE OF DISTINCTION

It is proposed to draw a sharp line of distinction between the normal activities of the Government,
represented in the Department of Agriculture, in reference to food production, conservation
and marketing, on the one hand, and the emergency activities necessitated by the war, in reference
to the regulation of food distribution and consumption, on the other.

All measures intended directly to extend the normal activities of the Department of Agriculture,
in reference to the production, conservation and the marketing of farm crops, will be administered,
as in normal times, through that department; and the powers asked for over distribution and
consumption, over exports, imports, prices, purchase and requisition of commodities, storing
and the like, which may require regulation during the war, will be placed in the hands of a
Commissioner of Food Administration, appointed by the President and directly responsible to him.

THE END TO BE ATTAINED

The objects sought to be served by the legislation asked for are: Full inquiry into the existing
available stocks of foodstuffs and into the costs and practices of the various food producing
and distributing trades; the prevention of all unwarranted hoarding of every kind, and of the
control of foodstuffs by persons who are not in any legitimate sense producers, dealers or
traders; the requisition, when necessary for public use, of food supplies and of the equipment
necessary for handling them properly; the licensing of wholesome and legitimate mixtures and
milling percentages, and the prohibition of the unnecessary or wasteful use of foods.

Authority is asked also to establish prices, but not in order to limit the profits of the farmers,
but only to guarantee to them, when necessary, a minimum price, which will insure them a profit
where they are asked to attempt new crops, and to secure the consumer against extortion by
breaking up corners and attempts at speculation when they occur, by fixing temporarily a reasonable
price at which middlemen must sell.

THE FIXING OF PRICES

I have asked Mr. Herbert Hoover to undertake this all-important task of food administration.
He has expressed his willingness to do so, on condition that he is to receive no payment for
his services, and that the whole of the force under him, exclusive of clerical assistance,
shall be employed, as far as possible, upon the same volunteer basis.

He has expressed his confidence that this difficult matter of food administration can be successfully
accomplished through the voluntary co-operation and direction of legitimate distributers of
foodstuffs and with the help of the women of the country.

Although it is absolutely necessary that unquestionable powers shall be placed in my hands,
in order to insure the success of this administration of the food-supplies of the country,
I am confident that the exercise of those powers will be necessary only in the few cases where
some small and selfish minority proves unwilling to put the Nation's interests above personal
advantage, and that the whole country will heartily support Mr. Hoover's efforts by supplying
the necessary volunteer agencies throughout the country for the intelligent control of food
consumption, and securing the co-operation of the most capable leaders of the very interests
most directly affected, that the exercise of the powers deputed to him will rest very successfully
upon the good-will and co-operation of the people themselves, and that the ordinary economic
machinery of the country will be left substantially undisturbed.

NO FEAR OF BUREAUCRACY

The proposed food administration is intended, of course, only to meet a manifest emergency
and to continue only while the war lasts. Since it will be composed for the most part of volunteers,
there need be no fear of the possibility of a permanent bureaucracy arising out of it.

All control of consumption will disappear when the emergency has passed. It is with that object
in view that the Administration considers it to be of pre-eminent importance that the existing
associations of producers and distributers of foodstuffs should be mobilized and made use of
on a volunteer basis. The successful conduct of the projected food administration, by such
means, will be the finest possible demonstration of the willingness, the ability and the efficiency
of democracy and of its justified reliance upon the freedom of individual initiative.

The last thing that any American could contemplate with equanimity would be the introduction
of anything resembling Prussian autocracy into the food control of this country.

It is of vital interest and importance to every man who produces food and to every man who
takes part in its distribution that these policies, thus liberally administered, should succeed
and succeed altogether. It is only in that way that we can prove it to be absolutely unnecessary
to resort to the rigorous and drastic measures which have proved to be necessary in some of
the European countries.

VII

AN ANSWER TO CRITICS

(May 22, 1917)

In the following letter, addressed to Representative Heflin, Democrat, of Alabama, President
Wilson replies to criticisms regarding his position with regard to the war and its objects:

It is incomprehensible to me how any frank or honest person could doubt or question my position
with regard to the war and its objects. I have again and again stated the very serious and
long-continued wrongs which the Imperial German Government has perpetrated against the rights,
the commerce and the citizens of the United States. The list is long and overwhelming. No Nation
that respected itself or the rights of humanity could have borne those wrongs any longer.

Our objects in going into the war have been stated with equal clearness. 

RYE .--=( cupping his hand to reach the ear of D. José words spoken secret.) = I know where
love has gone. I came when he got into the car, and said the driver: Beat, 4.

IDO .--=( with surprise.) = Going to leave it ... Here in confidence, Felipe, I think the master
not looking for his decency to take this step.

Because, frankly, son, of course, the honor ...

RYE .-- The doctor has said you're out of danger ...

IDO .-- Slowly
... Tia, who attends on behalf of the Lord, (and I suppose we must
assistance to pay well) Tia says ...

RYE .--=( Impatient.) = What?

IDO .-- Let me make these lines of ink ... Well said ... Before I
tell you what I think.

RYE .-- What have you thought?

IDO .-- I trust him ... quietly. Well I think the lady is left with no Amparo that a solution
to regenerate ... What is it? Here's communicate ... with the greatest reserve. Grande has
been the lack ... as atonement, boy, atonement ...

RYE .-- While away at once ...

IDO .--=( With presumptuous sufficiency.) = In short, it remained
to be sister of Charity ... This, upon being poetic, is a means of
regeneration ... I do not say anything ... heal the sick and wounded
in hospitals and camps ... Walk from work ...!

Imagine whether it will play with those beautiful white ...

RYE .--=( bewildered.) = It is yummy.

IDO .-- Je je ... Sister of Charity. It has no other way.
RYE .--=( With insight mocking.) = Don José ... you will always be
a novelist ...

IDO .-- really tell you that in these days of laziness
I have to write one entitled: The brothel the cloister ... It occurred
to me now, witnessing these monstrous events ... Oh, and I forgot
to tell you that, according to Tia, the girl, but seems to be healed
of that arrechucho, not. He gets up, eat something, but his soul is
deeply wounded, and when least We will consider a scare ... Who knows,
man, maybe when the master get there, find it dead. Such a time has come,
and in the providence of God America will once more have an opportunity to show to the world
that she was born to serve mankind.

IX

A STATEMENT TO RUSSIA

(June 9, 1917)

In view of the approaching visit of the American delegation to Russia to express the deep friendship
of the American people for the people of Russia and to discuss the best and most practical
means of co-operation between the two peoples in carrying the present struggle for the freedom
of all peoples to a successful consummation, it seems opportune and appropriate that I should
state again, in the light of this new partnership, the objects the United States has had in
mind in entering the war. Those objects have been very much beclouded during the past few weeks
by mistaken and misleading statements, and the issues at stake are too momentous, too tremendous,
too significant for the whole human race to permit any misinterpretations or misunderstandings,
however slight, to remain uncorrected for a moment. Wrote Guadix
a natural Mohammedan, who lived in the twelfth century AD and was named Abubequer Abentofail. They
say it was great mathematician and astronomer, a learned physician, philosopher and inspired poet.
Also had to be skillful and courtier, because it robbed the Moorish king then of the Almohad dynasty,
and became so valimiento, which could favor, and call aupar with good jobs that brilliant cut
quite a few other scholars and writers.

AMERICA SEEKS NO CONQUEST

