PAMELA

OR

VIRTUE REWARDED

By Samuel Richardson

PUBLISHERS' NOTE

Samuel Richardson, the first, in order of time, of the great English novelists, was born in
1689 and died at London in 1761. He was a printer by trade, and rose to be master of the Stationers'
Company. That he also became a novelist was due to his skill as a letter-writer, which brought
him, in his fiftieth year, a commission to write a volume of model "familiar letters" as an
aid to persons too illiterate to compose their own. The notion of connecting these letters
by a story which had interested him suggested the plot of "Pamela" and determined its epistolary
form--a form which was retained in his later works. He felt that it would be good if he obeyed, and now the happy
and cheerful nature Kampfwilligkeit not let pass unused. And all had done a poor child who believed
in him and he was closer than any man in the World. He told himself that something glorious and
exalted is to love a being who comes from your own flesh, a being who can laugh and cry can and can
pray and the beauty: that it flowed abundantly and wonderful, as if from an invisible Source
grace.

He returned to the city, however, had a fine, happy plan devised. He went to a young friend
and asked so seriously and urgently, as he had never before a loan of ten marks. In possession
of the desired thing, he entered a large toy bazaar where he bought a very beautiful doll. She
had real hair color of ash blonde and had a noble lady-like facial expression. It was a doll
that had personality. Their movements were neither square nor screamed the joints here, but they
had the insinuating grace of a Southerner, and when Mama said, "so it sounded as if a real
girl says, "I love you. Her dress was so precious that a Tartar Chan before she would have to
be ashamed. This precious treasure that is loaded, moved Formes to the northern district. His heart
beat with tumultuous movement and for the first he felt, it amazing the joy of giving.

It was already eight clock when he got home.

Of course the kids were already in bed gone, but he would wake again Ruth. without meeting the
sister or mother, he crept to the bedroom of the Seven. He lit a candle and noticed that his
hands while shaking. Then he searched the bed, and more impatient, he went from one to another,
and he did not know what hit him when he was not the girl. There were four beds and one vacancy.
In the other two were children. He looked again, he lit each the sleeper's face, but the little
Ruth, he did not find. Then he smiled, and that smile was childlike and full of joy. During the
term of this beautiful smile He was a completely different person. He went with the candle
in his hand in his own room; for he was convinced that the child had secretly implanted over
there to him at to be able to stay. In the corridor, however, he met his sister Cenci, which
somewhat surprised him looked at her, when she saw him with the light in one hand and the packet
in the other hand. "You, Hans," she said as she had already turned away, "the little Ruth is
now suddenly been taken. Her mother was there and was very excited. She gave us the money
on the table is thrown and then walked with the child. - What is for you, John? You're so pale?
" With a slow shake of the head she turned and for the first time she felt by some something
close to his brother, even though their not the reason it was clear. Always darkness was and concern
over this house and its people were happy when they end their day with were and the little sleep
had got hold.

Formes stood still for a long time.

A dull sound wrenched himself to his lips and hot Anger he felt that something wonderful has
been lost for him in this hour. Then He went down into the street and shattered the precious
doll in the gutter. This smashed He also tempting building of sweet and hopeful dreams. Heavy and
pulled the gray Clouds of the coming years approaching. As all this was without light and bustle,
all this slope between Hope and bitterness! It is a flowering meadow trail and a supposedly easy
it to reach the roof of his home delicious. But as suddenly opens a wide Gorge before his faltering
feet, and he kneels down on a desperately hard rock and disdainful smile, he gives it up,
hoping and waiting.
 Good sirs! how was I frightened! I went to
hide the letter in my bosom; and he, seeing me tremble, said, smiling, To whom have you been
writing, Pamela?--I said, in my confusion, Pray your honour forgive me!--Only to my father
and mother. 

"Yes, he has developed the playboy and has directed our love object," was the cynical response.

However,
it was Sun Loyalty and upset stomach do not mix with each other,
and the husband of my friend had acquired a dangerous craft, his lunch
to throw into the fire if he did not taste, but not a domestic happiness
enhancing habit.

The food is really one of the main sources of friction in the marriage. It sounds farcical,
but I mean it quite seriously.

The food, their disposition and preparation, and the ensuing Costs mean one of the greatest
tragedies in the life of a woman. The time heals everything, Thank God also blunts the severity of the
pain off, and matrons of about fifty Years are capable of the daily burden of drafting the
bill of fare, with a certain Indifference to oppose. But for a woman who is not the critical
age has reached the one with characteristically remarking: "hm, just as old as others, namely
thirty-five called "this factor is the largest cruise operators, as Some bride the first time
the young couple by the terrible and ever again but rising Need to find the right diet for her
partner, was totally ruined. The men make fun of the women, because their lunch, when they
are alone, often from a cup of tea and an egg there, but the women have such an innate hatred the
acquisition, they have probably inherited from a long line of female ancestors suffering need
that most of them prefer very happily until the end of her days of tea and Butter bread to live,
as a day to see the need in the eye, a diet thinking. For this reason, I believe that vegetarian
husband particularly desirable , since the basic principle of food reform is in its simplicity.
Those who go out acquire an entirely new view of the importance of nutrition and are moving
easily satisfaction. I know a woman whose husband is a vegetarian, and she explained that the food
question, which is such a destructive factor in most homes, you never would have caused a single
tear, a frown, an angry word or a hint. She assured me that her husband with a banana for breakfast,
second breakfast with a salad, for lunch and dinner with a date with a salted Mandel would
be quite happy. When the house on the occasion of a large dinner party on the head was made
and it was not possible to prepare the usual lunch because this angel was eating from a husband
in the bathroom Käsebrödchen instead of lunch and this was very delighted with it. I could hardly
believe it at first, but it is actually have been.

Among the many causes of low friction in marriage is the different sensitivity to temperatures
certainly a very rich source of discord. If the one at open window shudders and the other
an outdoor fanatic and is not breathing may, if it is closed, a chain of misfortune possible,
the consequences thereof. I think it was Napoleon's second wife, Marie Louise, who, if she wanted,
her husband was away, just the fact that they kept their rooms cold.

The great man, it was only comfortably in a very hot room with a flickering fireplace.

The lack of humor, something very regrettable, is still one of those tiny rocky reefs at which
the marital happiness fails so often. This is natural, because the absence of these priceless
property is one of the worst privations of a traveler on the journey through life. Among the men
the conviction is widespread that all women in this To suffer, but I think we can afford to leave
them this illusion as they prepared for them as much satisfaction.

I once had a journalism friend with a terrible non-digestible and exceptionally distressing
literary habit.


If, then, you love us, if you wish for God's blessing, and your own future happiness, we both
charge you to stand upon your guard: and, if you find the least attempt made upon your virtue,
be sure you leave every thing behind you, and come away to us; for we had rather see you all
covered with rags, and even follow you to the churchyard, than have it said, a child of ours
preferred any worldly conveniences to her virtue.

We accept kindly your dutiful present; but, till we are out of pain, cannot make use of it,
for fear we should partake of the price of our poor daughter's shame: so have laid it up in
a rag among the thatch, over the window, for a while, lest we should be robbed. With our blessings,
and our hearty prayers for you, we remain,

            Your careful, but loving Father and Mother,
                                      JOHN AND ELIZABETH ANDREWS.

LETTER III

DEAR FATHER,

I must needs say, your letter has filled me with trouble, for it has made my heart, which was
overflowing with gratitude for my master's goodness, suspicious and fearful: and yet I hope
I shall never find him to act unworthy of his character; for what could he get by ruining such
a poor young creature as me? But that which gives me most trouble is, that you seem to mistrust
the honesty of your child. 

I remember me about a fifteen year old school friend, as I do something about ten years old,
confided that a man - he was an innocent boy of about twenty Years - had kissed her hand as he handed
her the Tennisrakett. She drew indignant her hand back and said, "How dare you, I inflict this
humiliation," then left they play the tennis court and no longer wanted. I do not think many girls
so stupid are like this, but the incident illustrates the generally prevailing in that school, We
inoculated clay. And he shows how emphatically the mind of the girl all sex must have been shown
Affairs, to enter in a very innocent and gallant Sign of homage saw a disgrace. What a dismal preparation
for marriage must be such a lesson! arise from this kind of training those unfortunate Honeymoon,
about which we hear sometimes in secret, and the unfortunate women whose contemptuous coldness
of her husband brings to despair. This lack of feeling and lack of Understanding of the needs
stronger and warmer natures is one of the deepest and most incurable Causes of unhappiness in married
life.

If our girls are taught that sex is a quite natural, it would the
infinite, from the view that it was something extraordinary and repulsive,
springing Ill be avoided.

We educate them to the loving marriage, the passionate Motherhood as the most appropriate expression
of the woman's nature and the most desirable for them to look at life.

In a very interesting and recently published book "The Woman in Limbo" is This view of the determination
of the woman scorned repeatedly.

The author, Annette B. Meakin, is an assistant professor at the Anthropological Institute and
obviously a very well-read and much-traveled lady. I want to quote some: "In the happy future
when the higher ideals of women in our area will have a firm footing to be all realize no matter
what sex they belong, that we are the traitors to our own race and are involved in humanity
when we unskilled maternity each girl as their highest Ideal to keep in mind. ". . . "The English
school principal inside look at it, though they are often not married themselves to inculcate
as their sacred duty to the students, that motherhood is their highest destiny, and the students
make their marriage highest goal, and each other success in life must come second. "" Some
very brave women in England to say to our young girls are still that motherhood for each Woman
is the ultimate goal, unaware that the doctrine preached by them in dangerous As to that legal
prostitution leads, known euphemistically as the loveless marriage , or to even greater evils.
"" How can the girl who was taught that motherhood the only provision of the woman to dare the
risk to miss it? "

I reply to these objections: Of course, no reasonable person the unqualified Motherhood the girls as
their highest ideal present, and no thinking person will believe
that motherhood is the only provision of the woman.

But what is the highest Determination, that is the noblest, is concerned, I must say that when
good maternity (And well in the word I would rate the best physical and mental characteristics
be brought to see the healthy, intelligent and well-behaved children), not meets the ideal, I
want to know well, so it can be fulfilled! In response to this question, which must of course make
every reader is to Miss Meakin with Konstatierung satisfied, Finland and Australia, as well as
in America and Norway to teach the girls that the highest destiny of the woman by every woman
had reached: that their highest purpose and their highest ideal should not depend on a man
who really gets it or not, and that it is the highest ideal of woman, a real wife. This is very
nice, but it is far too vague to be upheld as a universal ideal of women. The ideal we represent
as desirable, must be closely circumscribed. What, for example, in the special a real woman? I thought
the main components of the armor of a real woman if her Skills for marriage and motherhood.

Miss Meakin blames the teachers because their students the importance of motherhood imprinted with
the words, "any other success in life have to come second." "What should it take according to the
author the first place?

And indeed I am sure I am not proud, and carry it civilly to every body; but yet, methinks,
I cannot bear to be looked upon by these men-servants, for they seem as if they would look
one through; and, as I generally breakfast, dine, and sup, with Mrs. Jervis, (so good she is
to me,) I am very easy that I have so little to say to them. Not but they are civil to me in
the main, for Mrs. Jervis's sake, who they see loves me; and they stand in awe of her, knowing
her to be a gentlewoman born, though she has had misfortunes. I am going on again with a long
letter; for I love writing, and shall tire you. The women are such that the need to love and be loved, the strongest element of her
character and the core of their being is. Everywhere across the country are It lonely women
in all classes, idle and working, smart, unattractive, good and poor, the thirst for love,
for a man who cared for under the law of womanhood and the thrice-blessed law of motherhood. is
heard constantly in the papers the hackneyed talk of the men: "Women should not interfere
in politics, the women should do this or that, they should take care of her house and her children.
" But the restless women who do these things usually have no house and no children, around
which they can attend. What good is it to preach to them the sanctity of motherhood, if they
do not let her become a mother, why talk of the duties of womanhood, if its not popular with women.

It
is a well known physiological fact that a large number of women in the middle Years to go
mad, which would not have happened if the ordinary duties, had pleasures
and occupations of the marriage would have if their Weibnatur not
an unnatural Celibacy would have starved.

I can not comment on it, but I recommend it the thoughtful attention of my readers and those relating
to the improvement of social injustices in our glorious, civilized twentieth century deal.

Worst of all is the situation of women who not only after the marriage and a dear husband long,
but after motherhood, those bitter sweet crown of sex, which the priests living in celibacy incessantly
as the highest good and the first duty praise of women, from which
thousands of women are excluded in this country.

It must certainly not be so painful bitterness than the bitterness of the women after maternity
long, in whose ear the life force and in whose heart rushes endlessly dreamed of the children and stir
constantly cry, "Give us life, give us life!" a reputation that year after year agonizing as each
year the divine possibility remains unfulfilled.

I often think about how everything works together, a noble-blooded, maternal-assessed torturing
woman, whose nature must starve Sun It must, of course, to suppress any such movement, who suffered
head high and smile with the superior faces of the girls that much
younger than them and carry golden chance the magic ring in the lives
of women all changes, they must usually say that they do not want
to get married and never wanted and it would may, if they had wanted
to, they must laugh at these lines if they are reading random and
the author should be called a pathological idiot - in short, they
must play a role play against a world that finds it extremely amusing
that a woman's birthright to their sex is cheating.

Every newspaper and every book she does now at hand, contains something for the glory of womanhood
and motherhood. The music, the images the novels, the plays - everything you speak of the satisfied
and victorious sex drive and none of the starving and oppressed. The same principle is everywhere
in nature, The sky, the flowers, the lake, the green trees, the rustle of summer rain, everything
beautiful, all sounds in nature are sharp from the same meaning for them and contain the same
Sting, the same heavy burden, and if it tends to morbidity, then breaks each child's face, she
sees on the road that wound in their hearts.
 For you must
think, there was no answer to be made to this: So, like a fool, I was ready to cry; and went
away courtesying and blushing, I am sure, up to the ears; for, though there was no harm in
what he said, yet I did not know how to take it. But I went and told all to Mrs. Jervis, who
said, God put it into his heart to be good to me; and I must double my diligence. It looked
to her, she said, as if he would fit me in dress for a waiting-maid's place on Lady Davers's
own person.

But still your kind fatherly cautions came into my head, and made all these gifts nothing near
to me what they would have been. But yet, I hope, there is no reason; for what good could it
do to him to harm such a simple maiden as me? Besides, to be sure no lady would look upon him,
if he should so disgrace himself. So I will make myself easy; and, indeed, I should never have
been otherwise, if you had not put it into my head; for my good, I know very well. His moral attitude is certainly
a little boring, but nevertheless, he is one of those people with whom you really polite. Although
on the face of, Familienegoisten 'a certain irritability view was, we listened to respectfully,
with the exception of, evil man Stock Exchange ', the meal far too important place in his scheme
of life took to carry a conversation about moral Topics to be affected.

The, spent Roué 'must, of course - this is a matter of honor to him - contrary to everything
the And honest exchange man says. " I must mention that the man spent Roué 'a very virtuous Man
and a model husband and father. He poses a wild past, which earned him the sarcastic Nickname is registered,
he did not quite merited by his performance. "You forget," He threw a mat, than the honest exchange
man was' a pause, "that none other than Schopenhauer has said that the man by nature to polygamy,
the woman tends to monogamy. "

"I deny the first claim," said the one honest man Stock Exchange 'heated. He was always in heat, if
it was ethical questions, and wanted to provide more detailed evidence, which threatened to cause
a somewhat tedious discussion, than the blue-stocking 'with thin,
choppy voice drove in between decided:

"When one listens to you,
you would think that the monogamous marriage is a divine institution
is.

"

"Ridiculous, huh?" Grinned the, spent Roué '. The one man looked honest exchange 'of troubled
and cleared his throat. This signal is sent to the terrible, Familienegoist '- whose Irritation
grew steadily, as the proven distribution of a newspaper - to be missile to throw into the arena.
That would have inspired any awareness of the conversation to some Hours also inhibited, and
it escaped everyone a sigh of relief when our brave, blue-stocking 'threw himself once more
against the run of the conversation.

"They do indeed almost a cult from the Bible," she croaked the mocking, honest exchange man
' on, - "but you seem with the Old Testament in no very familiar foot stand. There you will
find ample evidence that the monogamous marriage is not as divine polygamy and free love, even
that they have no divine origin, since they changed depending on
race and climate.

It is simply an indispensable protection of society. "

"I put a penny on it," he murmured, gannets' (an incorrigible young man, all of the Winston Churchill
of our family office), by he used his usual formula. Ignoring him, the chirping, blue-stocking 'seriously
added: "If you ever studied sociology , you need to know that marriage is primarily a social
contract, which originally was founded on the selfishness. Even now she has something of its
semi-barbarous form, and those who preach without reasons proven their sanctity, should suggest
rather such as the now standing in Exercise Desert law to the needs
of modern conditions could be adjusted.

"

She paused to catch his breath. - The one man was honest exchange 'pale, but he it was considered
manly.

"Bravo, bluestocking, '" said the man spent Roué'.

"A wonderful wife, our spokesperson," said the, boobies'. - "I put a shilling on them. "

The "evil man took stock exchange ', a second helping of salad and ate on unconcerned, while
the , Lady 'at the top of the table, Familienegoisten' anxiously
watching the apoplectic looked so serious and played with his wine
glass, that he whose career as a useful Commodity seems to shorten
the term was.

"I have been taught," said the one honest man stock market 'slowly, "marriage as a sacred Institution,
to be regarded as a holy mystery. "

"Then were you taught nonsense," he snapped the 'blue-stocking on' and was thus the worst Habits
of the Round Table polite way, they trembled with intellectual enthusiasm.

"An accusation," began, honest exchange man '- ("A successful word, I put a Schilling out,
"murmured the, boobies ') -" is not evidence, "was the one honest
man stock market' continued.

"Maybe, but what you said was nonsense,"
replied the, blue-stocking '. "A holy mystery, set in the innocence
of humanity time '- I remember me the quote. And what time was that,
if you please? Refer to the garden Eden or any part of the Bible?
The chosen people, the Hebrews, was from polygamous at the time of
Lamech, apparently with the approval of God. It was
a very long one. I fear, he that was mean enough to do bad things, in one respect, did not
stick at this. But be it as it will, all the use he can make of it will be, that he may be
ashamed of his part; I not of mine: for he will see I was resolved to be virtuous, and gloried
in the honesty of my poor parents. The
present scheme is extremely unreasonable.

England is almost the only European country where it is not desired, the daughters to give
a dowry, except in the wealthy classes. Quite well-off to keep British it unnecessary to their
daughters alive to give something, even though they are inclined to impose serious constraints
to their sons in life to make good. The English Fathers give everything to their sons, in many
countries of the continent are the daughters of the rights after first and in all classes, rich
and poor, the parents seek in any to make way for a dowry, by starting
from the day of birth to save the child.

I am convinced that an immense impetus would be given in marriage, if the dowry for Daughters
in England would be available and many misunderstandings between men and women could be avoided
be if the woman's own, though would have so little resources.

It is certainly very humiliating and uncomfortable for a better woman by her husband for every
bus ride and each packet hairpins to depend.

The English are, however, afterward to boast of their mistakes and also hopelessly Sun sentimental,
that she's credited as an honor, in this respect an exception to all forming countries, and even
brag about it, concluded that in their marriages out of love be. The same ridiculous and unfürsorglichen
spirit arises, the usual aversion to the Daughters to bequeath something.

Only a very rich man, one expects that, whereas it only fair that each man is his wife bequeathed
something, if only the body or the insurance policy.

A chapter on marriage reform would not be complete without reference to our barbaric Church marriage
ceremony. Good is it something else about to lodge a complaint? Since I can read, I read attacks
on it. It is clear that no one has a word to defend not even the
priest, and yet it remains exactly as it required at the time of James
I was. If ever needed one written by the men of a religious formula
revision in order to to keep the same thoughts of the time step, this
is it.

I said, when I could speak, Your honour will forgive me; but as you have no lady for me to
wait upon, and my good lady has been now dead this twelvemonth, I had rather, if it would not
displease you, wait upon Lady Davers, because--

I was proceeding, and he said, a little hastily--Because you are a little fool, and know not
what's good for yourself. I tell you I will make a gentlewoman of you, if you be obliging,
and don't stand in your own light; and so saying, he put his arm about me, and kissed me!

Now, you will say, all his wickedness appeared plainly. I want the parents to the dignity of a high spiritual
ideals see raised. Not that I exaggerated the Verhimmlung the mere reproduction speak the word, although
it is a delicious thing, beautiful and healthy children in the world to put one thing on the
men and women should be very proud, but "an immortal Soul to launch - what can compare to this "spirit
of the newborn sun? grow toward to let the nobler possibilities of the various human body by constant
efforts to bring development and from him, "an upright, heaven-storming Speakers to make "- what
better life can work a man or a woman hoping to accomplish, what greater monument to leave behind?

If
the parents are a high ideal, then, after some time the public Opinion - that powerful weapon - are
so strong that an unworthy parents of all decent people would be
included unpopular.

The unfit should not venture, the to commit crimes of the propagation of their species, and
this sin against the community inherent flaw would even rival that of the stigma that now the
terrible Crime of false game attached! - Meets the noble ideal of parenthood, would the young
girls in their applicants to see his father's mind, the men were in the Women to seek them free,
the beautiful, maternal characteristics, and the material Considerations that influence both parties
now so would increasingly crucial be. Hundreds of times would be fixed to the marriage. The infidelity
was more rare, because the husband, who are blessed with children feel, would indicate that
the consecration of their association was awarded and it has become truly insoluble. Father
and mother, who for the first time on the kiss small body of her first child, could this indescribable
moment never forgotten.


O how poor and mean must those actions be, and how little must they make the best of gentlemen
look, when they offer such things as are unworthy of themselves, and put it into the power
of their inferiors to be greater than they! One hears nothing
more of it and it takes not of it. Your picture is completed, its essence is clearly in our
minds. A wide longing blows through the book, it sounds very minor and which is a strange and
poetic may be called.