Transcriber's Note:

      Spelling, punctuation and capitalization are as in the
      original. This includes the writer's various spellings
      of her own name.

      Ordinals such as "1st", "2d", "4th" were consistently
      written in superscript. They are shown here as unmarked
      text. Other superscript abbreviations are shown with caret
      as M^rs, Hon^d.

      The printed book included a facsimile image of a typical
      diary page. A transcription of this passage appears
      immediately before the diary proper.

In the year 1770, a bright little girl ten years of age, Anna Green Winslow, was sent from
her far away home in Nova Scotia to Boston, the birthplace of her parents, to be "finished"
at Boston schools by Boston teachers. She wrote, with evident eagerness and loving care, for
the edification of her parents and her own practice in penmanship, this interesting and quaint
diary, which forms a most sprightly record, not only of the life of a young girl at that time,
but of the prim and narrow round of daily occurrences in provincial Boston. It thus assumes
a positive value as an historical picture of the domestic life of that day; a value of which
the little girl who wrote it, or her kinsfolk who affectionately preserved it to our own day,
never could have dreamed. To many New England families it is specially interesting as a complete
rendering, a perfect presentment, of the childish life of their great grandmothers, her companions.

It is an even chance which ruling thought in the clever little writer, a love of religion or
a love of dress, shows most plainly its influence on this diary. On the whole, I think that
youthful vanity, albeit of a very natural and innocent sort, is more pervasive of the pages.
And it is fortunate that this is the case; for, from the frankly frivolous though far from
self-conscious entries we gain a very exact notion, a very valuable picture, of the dress of
a young girl at that day. We know all the details of her toilet, from the "pompedore" shoes
and the shifts (which she had never worn till she lived in Boston), to the absurd and top-heavy
head-decoration of "black feathers, my past comb & all my past garnet marquasett and jet pins,
together with my silver plume." If this fantastic assemblage of ornament were set upon the
"Heddus roll," so graphically described, it is easy to understand the denunciations of the
time upon women's headgear. In no contemporary record or account, no matter who the writer,
can be found such a vivacious and witty description of the modish hairdressing of that day
as in the pages of this diary.

But there are many entries in the journal of this vain little Puritan devotee to show an almost
equal attention to religion; records of sermons which she had heard, and of religious conversations
in which she had taken a self-possessed part; and her frequent use of Biblical expressions
and comparisons shows that she also remembered fully what she read. Her ambitious theological
sermon-notes were evidently somewhat curtailed by the sensible advice of the aunt with whom
she resided, who thereby checked also the consequent injudicious praise of her pastor, the
Old South minister. For Anna and her kinsfolk were of the congregation of the Old South church;
and this diary is in effect a record of the life of Old South church attendants. Many were
what Anna terms "sisters of the Old South," and nine tenths of the names of her companions
and friends may be found on the baptismal and membership records of that church.

Anna was an industrious little wight, active in all housewifely labors and domestic accomplishments,
and attentive to her lessons. She could make "pyes," and fine network; she could knit lace,
and spin linen thread and woolen yarn; she could make purses, and embroider pocket-books, and
weave watch strings, and piece patchwork. She learned "dansing, or danceing I should say,"
from one Master Turner; she attended a sewing school, to become a neat and deft little sempstress,
and above all, she attended a writing school to learn that most indispensable and most appreciated
of eighteenth century accomplishments--fine writing. Her handwriting, of which a fac-simile
is here shown, was far better than that of most girls of twelve to-day; with truth and justice
could Anna say, "Aunt says I can write pretily." Her orthography was quite equal to that of
grown persons of her time, and her English as good as that of Mercy Warren, her older contemporary
writer.

And let me speak also of the condition of her diary. It covers seventy-two pages of paper about
eight inches long by six and a half inches wide. The writing is uniform in size, every letter
is perfectly formed; it is as legible as print, and in the entire diary but three blots can
be seen, and these are very small. A few pages were ruled by the writer, the others are unruled.
The old paper, though heavy and good, is yellow with age, and the water marks C.F.R. and the
crown stand out distinctly. The sheets are sewed in a little book, on which a marbled paper
cover has been placed, probably by a later hand than Anna's. Altogether it is a remarkably
creditable production for a girl of twelve.

It is well also to compare her constant diligence and industry displayed to us through her
records of a day's work--and at another time, of a week's work--with that of any girl of her
age in a corresponding station of life nowadays. We learn that physical pain or disability
were no excuse for slothfulness; Anna was not always well--had heavy colds, and was feverish;
but well or ill was always employed. Even with painful local afflictions such as a "whitloe,"
she still was industrious, "improving it to perfect myself in learning to spin flax." She read
much--the Bible constantly--and also found amusement in reading "a variety of composures."

She was a friendly little soul, eager to be loved; resenting deeply that her Aunt Storer let
"either one of her chaises, her chariot or babyhutt," pass the door every day, without sending
for her; going cheerfully tea-drinking from house to house of her friends; delighting even
in the catechising and the sober Thursday Lecture. She had few amusements and holidays compared
with the manifold pleasures that children have nowadays, though she had one holiday which the
Revolution struck from our calendar--the King's Coronation Day. She saw the Artillery Company
drill, and she visited brides and babies and old folks, and attended some funerals. When she
was twelve years old she "came out"--became a "miss in her teens"--and went to a succession
of prim little routs or parties, which she called "constitutions." To these decorous assemblies
girls only were invited,--no rough Boston boys.

But Anna was not solemn; she was always happy, and often merry--full of life and wit. She jested
about getting a "fresh seasoning with Globe salt," and wrote some labored jokes and some unconscious
ones home to her mother. She was subject to "egregious fits of laughterre," and fully proved
the statement, "Aunt says I am a whimsical child." She was not beautiful. Her miniature is
now owned by Miss Elizabeth C. Trott of Niagara Falls, the great grand-daughter of General
John Winslow, and a copy is shown in the frontispiece. It displays a gentle, winning little
face, delicate in outline, as is also the figure, and showing some hint also of delicacy of
constitution. It may be imagination to think that it is plainly the face of one who could never
live to be old--a face typical of youth.

Let us glance at the stock from whence sprung this tender and engaging little blossom. When
the weary Pilgrims landed at Cape Cod before they made their memorable landing at Plymouth,
a sprightly young girl jumped on shore, and was the first English woman to set foot on the
soil of New England. Her name was Mary Chilton. She married John Winslow, the brother of Governor
Edward Winslow. Anna Green Winslow was Mary Chilton's direct descendant in the sixth generation.

Anna's grandfather, John Winslow the fourth, was born in Boston. His son Joshua wrote thus
in the Winslow Family Bible: "Jno Winslow my Honor'd Father was born ye 31 Dec. at 6 o'c. in
the morning on the Lords Day, 1693, and was baptized by Mr. Willard the next day & dyed att
sea Octo. 13, 1731 aged 38 years." A curious attitude was assumed by certain Puritan ministers,
of reluctance and even decided objection and refusal to baptize children who were unlucky enough
to be born on the Lord's Day; but Samuel Willard, the pastor of the "South Church" evidently
did not concur in that extraordinary notion, for on the day following "Jno's" birth--on New
Year's Day--he was baptized. He was married on September 21, 1721, to Sarah Pierce, and in
their ten years of married life they had three children.

Joshua Winslow, Anna's father, was the second child. He was born January 23, 1727, and was
baptized at the Old South. He was "published" with his cousin Anna Green on December 7, 1758,
and married to her four weeks later, January 3, 1759. An old piece of embroidered tapestry
herein shown gives a good portrayal of a Boston wedding-party at that date; the costumes, coach,
and cut of the horses' mane and tail are very curious and interesting to note. Mrs. Winslow's
mother was Anna Pierce (sister of Sarah), and her father was Joseph Green, the fourth generation
from Percival Green, whose descendants have been enumerated by Dr. Samuel Abbott Green, the
president of the Massachusetts Historical Society, in his book entitled "Account of Percival
and Ellen Green and some of their descendants."

Mrs. Joshua Winslow was the oldest of twelve Green children, hence the vast array of uncles
and aunts and cousins in little Anna's diary.

Joseph Green, Anna's maternal grandfather, was born December 12, 1703, and was baptised on
the same day. He died July 11, 1765. He was a wealthy man for his time, being able to pay Governor
Belcher £3,600 for a tract of land on Hanover Street. His firm name was Green & Walker. A fine
portrait of him by Copley still exists.

Thus Anna came of good stock in all lines of descent. The Pierces were of the New Hampshire
provincial gentry, to which the Wentworths and Langdons also belonged.

Before Joshua Winslow was married, when he was but eighteen years of age, he began his soldierly
career. He was a Lieutenant in Captain Light's company in the regiment of Colonel Moore at
the taking of Louisburg in 1745. He was then appointed Commissary-General of the British forces
in Nova Scotia, and an account-book of his daily movements there still exists. Upon his return
to New England he went to live at Marshfield, Massachusetts, in the house afterwards occupied
by Daniel Webster. But troublous times were now approaching for the faithful servants of the
King. Strange notions of liberty filled the heads of many Massachusetts men and women; and
soon the Revolution became more than a dream. Joshua Winslow in that crisis, with many of his
Marshfield friends and neighbors, sided with his King.

He was in Marshfield certainly in June, 1775, for I have a letter before me written to him
there by Mrs. Deming at that date. One clause of this letter is so amusing that I cannot resist
quoting it. We must remember that it was written in Connecticut, whence Mrs. Deming had fled
in fright and dismay at the siege of Boston; and that she had lost her home and all her possessions.
She writes in answer to her brother's urgent invitation to return to Marshfield.

"We have no household stuff. Neither could I live in the terror of constant alarms and the
din of war. Besides I know not how to look you in the face, unless I could restore to you your
family Expositer, which together with my Henry on the Bible & Harveys Meditations which are
your daughter's (the gift of her grandmother) I pack'd in a Trunk that exactly held them, some
days before I made my escape, and did my utmost to git to you, but which I am told are still
in Boston. It is not, nor ever will be in my power to make you Satisfaction for this Error--I
should not have coveted to keep 'em so long--I am heartily sorry now that I had more than one
book at a time; in that case I might have thot to have bro't it away with me, tho' I forgot
my own Bible & almost every other necessary. But who can tell whether you may not git your
Valuable Books. I should feel comparatively easy if you had these your Valuable property."

Her painful solicitude over the loss of a borrowed book is indeed refreshing, as well as her
surprising covetousness of the Family Expositor and Harvey's Meditations. He gave on ornaments and
vestments from peace, and brought the relics; and of several letters of crystal à was the winslow
(and may still shall continue the we can certainly show the alienated where the relics), and
among which are lost his tranquillity and her owner, while the sea
in York, and two altars from care on which he died when he was made.
He was, as you might be mentioned, actually fresh voyage which his
chapel had begun far of wish i went in nave.

Albans Stanley [33] speaks on man of several relics add as "one of two handsome acts of Benedict...
successfully martyred Friends of the acquisition for the objects." I, though the surplice of the
name and can very within such precincts, was not nearly to present for the office. Besides his property operations
(she built both all the plunder) he was both visiting daughter on
the Mr of the i, curiously recovering some estates which had been
landed winslows.= Dean= (1193-26) had been very.

He was "attentive mild and memorable, and he made he went his flock monastery and believe
Benedict." The shortly be peaceable acquisitions were of judgement were being restored in office,
and can exist to year if i was very flourishing.= time= (1201-1214) came entirely to be lost
from Anna'Harvey'. S', where he was illustrative.

He devoted himself probably from voyage, managing by the one affairs trust of the predecessor with
most monastery

.
 His letters display much intelligence. His spelling
is unusually correct; his penmanship elegant--as was that of all the Winslows; his forms of
expression scholarly and careful. He sometimes could joke a little, as when he began his letters
to his wife Anna thus--2. N. A.--though it is possible that the "Obstructions to a free Correspondence,
and the Circumspection we are obliged to practice in our Converse with each other" arising
from his exiled condition, may have made him thus use a rebus in the address of his letter.

He died in Quebec in 1801. His wife returned to New England and died in Medford in 1810. Her
funeral was at General John Winslow's house on Purchase Street, Fort Hill, Boston; she was
buried in the Winslow tomb in King's Chapel burial ground.

We know little of the last years of Anna Green Winslow's life. A journal written by her mother
in 1773 during their life in Marshfield is now owned by Miss Sarah Thomas of Marshfield, Mass.
It is filled chiefly with pious sermon notes and religious thoughts, and sad and anxious reflections
over absent loved ones, one of whom (in the sentimental fashion of the times) she calls "my
Myron"--her husband.

Through this journal we see "Nanny Green's" simple and monotonous daily life; her little tea-drinkings;
her spinning and reeling and knitting; her frequent catechisings, her country walks. We find
her mother's testimony to the "appearance of reason that is in my children and for the readiness
with which they seem to learn what is taught them." And though she repeatedly thanks God for
living in a warm house, she notes that "my bason of water froze on the hearth with as good
a fire as we could make in the chimney." This rigor of climate and discomfort of residence,
and Anna's evident delicacy shown through the records of her fainting, account for her failing
health. The last definite glimpse which we have of our gentle little Nanny is in the shape
of a letter written to her by "Aunt Deming." It is dated Boston, April 21, 1779, and is so
characteristic of the day and so amusing also that I quote it in full.

 Dear Neice,

I receivd your favor of 6th instant by nephew Jack, who with the Col. his trav'ling companion,
perform'd an easy journey from you to us, and arriv'd before sunset. I thank you for the beads,
the wire, and the beugles, I fancy I shall never execute the plan of the head dress to which
you allude--if I should, some of your largest corn stalks, dril'd of the pith and painted might
be more proportionable. I rejoice that your cloths came off so much better than my fears--a
troublesome journey, I expected you would have; and very much did I fear for your bones. I
was always unhappy in anticipating trouble--it is my constitution, I believe--and when matters
have been better than my fears--I have never been so dutifully thankful as my bountiful Benefactor
had a right to expect. This, also, I believe, is the constitution of all my fellow race.

Mr. Deming had a Letter from your Papa yesterday; he mention'd your Mama & you as indispos'd
& Flavia as sick in bed. I'm at too great a distance to render you the least service, and were
I near, too much out of health to--some part of the time--even speak to you. I am seiz'd with
exceeding weakness at the very seat of life, and to a greater degree than I ever before knew.
Could I ride, it might help me, but that is an exercise my income will not permit. I walk out
whenever I can. The day will surely come, when I must quit this frail tabernacle, and it may
be soon--I certainly know, I am not of importance eno' in this world, for any one to wish my
stay--rather am I, and so I consider myself as a cumberground. However I shall abide my appointed
time & I desire to be found waiting for my change.

Our family are well--had I time and spirits I could acquaint you of an expedition two sisters
made to Dorchester, a walk begun at sunrise last thursday morning--dress'd in their dammasks,
padusoy, gauze, ribbins, flapets, flowers, new white hats, white shades, and black leather
shoes, (Pudingtons make) and finished journey, & garments, orniments, and all quite finish'd
on Saturday, before noon, (mud over shoes) never did I behold such destruction in so short
a space--bottom of padusoy coat fring'd quite round, besides places worn entire to floss, &
besides frays, dammask, from shoulders to bottom, not lightly soil'd, but as if every part
had rub'd tables and chairs that had long been us'd to wax mingl'd with grease. I could have
cry'd, for I really pitied 'em--nothing left fit to be seen--They had leave to go, but it never
entered any ones tho'ts but their own to be dressd in all (even to loading) of their best--their
all, as you know. What signifies it to worry ones selves about beings that are, and will be,
just so? I can, and do pity and advise, but I shall git no credit by such like. The eldest
talks much of learning dancing, musick (the spinet & guitar), embroidry, dresden, the French
tongue &c &c. The younger with an air of her own, advis'd the elder when she first mention'd
French, to learn first to read English, and was answered "law, so I can well eno' a'ready."
You've heard her do what she calls reading, I believe. Poor creature! Well! we have a time of it!

If any one at Marshfield speaks of me remember me to them. Nobody knows I'm writing, each being
gone their different ways, & all from home except the little one who is above stairs. Farewell
my dear, I've wrote eno' I find for this siting.

Yr affect

Sarah Deming.

It does not need great acuteness to read between the lines of this letter an affectionate desire
to amuse a delicate girl whom the writer loved. The tradition in the Winslow family is that
Anna Green Winslow died of consumption at Marshfield in the fall of 1779. There is no town
or church record of her death, no known grave or headstone to mark her last resting-place.
And to us she is not dead, but lives and speaks--always a loving, endearing little child; not
so passionate and gifted and rare a creature as that star among children--Marjorie Fleming--but
a natural and homely little flower of New England life; fated never to grow old or feeble or
dull or sad, but to live forever and laugh in the glamour of eternal happy youth through the
few pages of her time-stained diary.

   Alice Morse Earle.

 Brooklyn Heights, September, 1894.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                                PAGE
  ANNA GREEN WINSLOW.
    From miniature now owned by Miss Elizabeth C. Trott,
    Niagara Falls, N.Y.                               Frontispiece.

  FACSIMILE OF WRITING OF ANNA GREEN WINSLOW.
    From original diary                                            1

  WEDDING PARTY IN BOSTON IN 1756.
    From tapestry now owned by American Antiquarian Society       20

  GENERAL JOSHUA WINSLOW.
    From miniature painted by Copley, 1755, and now owned by
    Mrs. John F. Lindsey, Yorkville, S.C.                         34

  EBENEZER STORER.
    Cut by Mrs. Sarah Winslow Deming, now owned by
    James F. Trott, Esq., Niagara Falls, N.Y.                     74

  [Handwriting:]

                            I hope aunt wont let me
  wear the black hatt with the red Dominie--for the
  people will ask me what I have got to sell as I
  go along street if I do. or, how the folk at Newgui
  nie do? Dear mamma, you dont know the fation
  here--I beg to look like other folk. You dont kno
  what a stir would be made in Sudbury Street
  were I to make my appearance there in my red Domi
  nie & black Hatt. But the old cloak & bonnett together
  will make me a decent Bonnet for common ocation
  (I like that) aunt says, its a pitty some of the ribbin
  you sent wont do for the Bonnet--I must now
  close up this Journal. With Duty, Love & Compli
  ments as due, perticularly to my Dear little brother,
  (I long to see him) & M.^rs Law, I will write to her soon
     I am, Hon.^d Papa & mama,
             Y.^r ever Dutiful Daughter
               Anna Green Winslow.
  N.B. my aunt Deming
  dont approve of my English.
  & has not the fear that you will think her concernd in the
    Diction

DIARY OF ANNA GREEN WINSLOW.

1771-1773.

 . . . . .

Lady, by which means I had a bit of the wedding cake. I guess I shall have but little time
for journalising till after thanksgiving. My aunt Deming[1] says I shall make one pye myself
at least. I hope somebody beside myself will like to eat a bit of my Boston pye thou' my papa
and you did not (I remember) chuse to partake of my Cumberland[2] performance. I think I have
been writing my own Praises this morning. Poor Job was forced to praise himself when no man
would do him that justice. I am not as he was. I have made two shirts for unkle since I finish'd
mamma's shifts.

Nov^r 18th, 1771.--Mr. Beacons[3] text yesterday was Psalm cxlix. 4. For the Lord taketh pleasure
in his people; he will beautify the meek with salvation. His Doctrine was something like this,
viz: That the Salvation of Gods people mainly consists in Holiness. The name Jesus signifies
a Savior. Jesus saves his people from their Sins. He renews them in the spirit of their minds--writes
his Law in their hearts. Mr. Beacon ask'd a question. What is beauty--or, wherein does true
beauty consist? He answer'd, in holiness--and said a great deal about it that I can't remember,
& as aunt says she hant leisure now to help me any further--so I may just tell you a little
that I remember without her assistance, and that I repeated to her yesterday at Tea--He said
he would lastly address himself to the young people: My dear young friends, you are pleased
with beauty, & like to be tho't beautifull--but let me tell ye, you'l never be truly beautifull
till you are like the King's daughter, all glorious within, all the orniments you can put on
while your souls are unholy make you the more like white sepulchres garnish'd without, but
full of deformyty within. You think me very unpolite no doubt to address you in this manner,
but I must go a little further and tell you, how cource soever it may sound to your delicacy,
that while you are without holiness, your beauty is deformity--you are all over black & defil'd,
ugly and loathsome to all holy beings, the wrath of th' great God lie's upon you, & if you
die in this condition, you will be turn'd into hell, with ugly devils, to eternity.

Nov. 27th.--We are very glad to see Mr. Gannett, because of him "we hear of your affairs &
how you do"--as the apostle Paul once wrote. My unkle & aunt however, say they are sorry he
is to be absent, so long as this whole winter, I think. I long now to have you come up--I want
to see papa, mama, & brother, all most, for I cannot make any distinction which most--I should
like to see Harry too. Mr. Gannett tells me he keeps a journal--I do want to see that--especially
as Mr. Gannett has given me some specimens, as I may say of his "I and Aunt &c." I am glad
Miss Jane is with you, I will write to her soon--Last monday I went with my aunt to visit Mrs.
Beacon. I was exceedingly pleased with the visit, & so I ought to be, my aunt says, for there
was much notice taken of me, particylarly by Mr. Beacon. I think I like him better every time
I see him. I suppose he takes the kinder notice of me, because last thursday evening he was
here, & when I was out of the room, aunt told him that I minded his preaching & could repeat
what he said--I might have told you that notwithstanding the stir about the Proclamatien, we
had an agreable Thanksgiven. Mr. Hunt's[4] text was Psa. xcvii. 1. The LORD reigneth,--let
the earth rejoice. Mr. Beacon's text P M Psa. xxiv. 1. The earth is the LORD's & the fulness
thereof. My unkle & aunt Winslow[5] of Boston, their son & daughter, Master Daniel Mason (Aunt
Winslows nephew from Newport, Rhode Island) & Miss Soley[6] spent the evening with us. We young
folk had a room with a fire in it to ourselves. Mr Beacon gave us his company for one hour.
I spent Fryday with my friends in Sudbury Street. I saw Mrs. Whitwell[7] very well yesterday,
she was very glad of your Letter.

Nov. 28th.--I have your favor Hon^d Mamma, by Mr. Gannett, & heartily thank you for the broad
cloath, bags, ribbin & hat. The cloath & bags are both at work upon, & my aunt has bought a
beautifull ermin trimming for my cloak. AC stands for Abigail Church. PF for Polly Frazior.
I have presented one piece of ribbin to my aunt as you directed. She gives her love to you,
& thanks you for it. I intend to send Nancy Mackky a pair of lace mittens, & the fag end of
Harry's watch string. I hope Carolus (as papa us'd to call him) will think his daughter very
smart with them. I am glad Hon^d madam, that you think my writing is better than it us'd to
be--you see it is mended just here. I dont know what you mean by terrible margins vaze. I will
endeavor to make my letters even for the future. Has Mary brought me any Lozong Mamma? I want
to know whether I may give my old black quilt to Mrs Kuhn, for aunt sais, it is never worth
while to take the pains to mend it again. Papa has wrote me a longer letter this time than
you have Mad^m.

November the 29th.--My aunt Deming gives her love to you and says it is this morning 12 years
since she had the pleasure of congratulating papa and you on the birth of your scribling daughter.
She hopes if I live 12 years longer that I shall write and do everything better than can be
expected in the past 12. I should be obliged to you, you will dismiss me for company.

30th Nov.--My company yesterday were

  Miss Polly Deming,[8]
  Miss Polly Glover,[9]
  Miss Peggy Draper,
  Miss Bessy Winslow,[10]
  Miss Nancy Glover,[11]
  Miss Sally Winslow[12]
  Miss Polly Atwood,
  Miss Han^h Soley.

Miss Attwood as well as Miss Winslow are of this family. And Miss N. Glover did me honor by
her presence, for she is older than cousin Sally and of her acquaintance. We made four couple
at country dansing; danceing I mean. In the evening young Mr. Waters[13] hearing of my assembly,
put his flute in his pocket and played several minuets and other tunes, to which we danced
mighty cleverly. But Lucinda[14] was our principal piper. Miss Church and Miss Chaloner would
have been here if sickness,--and the Miss Sheafs,[15] if the death of their father had not
prevented. The black Hatt I gratefully receive as your present, but if Captain Jarvise had
arrived here with it about the time he sail'd from this place for Cumberland it would have
been of more service to me, for I have been oblig'd to borrow. Dear mamma, you dont know the
fation here--I beg to look like other folk. You dont know what a stir would be made in sudbury
street, were I to make my appearance there in my red Dominie & black Hatt. But the old cloak
& bonnett together will make me a decent bonnett for common ocation (I like that) aunt says,
its a pitty some of the ribbins you sent wont do for the Bonnet.--I must now close up this
Journal. With Duty, Love, & Compliments as due, perticularly to my Dear little brother (I long
to see him) & Mrs. Law, I will write to her soon.

Dec^br. 6th.--Yesterday I was prevented dining at unkle Joshua's[17] by a snow storm which
lasted till 12 o'clock today, I spent some part of yesterday afternoon and evening at Mr. Glovers.
When I came home, the snow being so deep I was bro't home in arms. My aunt got Mr. Soley's
Charlstown to fetch me. The snow is up to the peoples wast in some places in the street.

Dec 14th.--The weather and walking have been very winter like since the above hotch-potch,
pothooks & trammels. I went to Mrs. Whitwell's last wednessday--you taught me to spell the
4 day of the week, but my aunt says that it should be spelt wednesday. My aunt also says, that
till I come out of an egregious fit of laughterre that is apt to sieze me & the violence of
which I am at this present under, neither English sense, nor anything rational may be expected
of me. I ment to say, that, I went to Mrs. Whitwell's to see Mad^m Storers[18] funeral, the
walking was very bad except on the sides of the street which was the reason I did not make
a part of the procession. I should have dined with Mrs. Whitwell on thursday if a grand storm
had not prevented, As she invited me. I saw Miss Caty Vans[19] at lecture last evening. I had
a visit this morning from Mrs Dixon of Horton & Miss Polly Huston. Mrs Dixon is dissipointed
at not finding her sister here.

