One of the queerest things I know of, is to hear tourists from "the States" go into ecstasies
over the loveliness of "ever-blooming California."  And they always do go into that sort of
ecstasies.  But perhaps they would modify them if they knew how old Californians, with the
memory full upon them of the dust-covered and questionable summer greens of Californian "verdure,"
stand astonished, and filled with worshipping admiration, in the presence of the lavish richness,
the brilliant green, the infinite freshness, the spend-thrift variety of form and species and
foliage that make an Eastern landscape a vision of Paradise itself.  The idea of a man falling
into raptures over grave and sombre California, when that man has seen New England's meadow-expanses
and her maples, oaks and cathedral-windowed elms decked in summer attire, or the opaline splendors
of autumn descending upon her forests, comes very near being funny--would be, in fact, but
that it is so pathetic. No land with an unvarying climate can be very beautiful.  The tropics
are not, for all the sentiment that is wasted on them.  They seem beautiful at first, but sameness
impairs the charm by and by.  Change is the handmaiden Nature requires to do her miracles with.
The land that has four well-defined seasons, cannot lack beauty, or pall with monotony. Each
season brings a world of enjoyment and interest in the watching of its unfolding, its gradual,
harmonious development, its culminating graces--and just as one begins to tire of it, it passes
away and a radical change comes, with new witcheries and new glories in its train. And I think
that to one in sympathy with nature, each season, in its turn, seems the loveliest.

San Francisco, a truly fascinating city to live in, is stately and handsome at a fair distance,
but close at hand one notes that the architecture is mostly old-fashioned, many streets are
made up of decaying, smoke-grimed, wooden houses, and the barren sand-hills toward the outskirts
obtrude themselves too prominently.  Even the kindly climate is sometimes pleasanter when read
about than personally experienced, for a lovely, cloudless sky wears out its welcome by and
by, and then when the longed for rain does come it stays.  Even the playful earthquake is better
contemplated at a dis----

However there are varying opinions about that.

The climate of San Francisco is mild and singularly equable.  The thermometer stands at about
seventy degrees the year round.  It hardly changes at all.  You sleep under one or two light
blankets Summer and Winter, and never use a mosquito bar.  Nobody ever wears Summer clothing.
You wear black broadcloth--if you have it--in August and January, just the same.  It is no
colder, and no warmer, in the one month than the other.  You do not use overcoats and you do
not use fans.  It is as pleasant a climate as could well be contrived, take it all around,
and is doubtless the most unvarying in the whole world.  The wind blows there a good deal in
the summer months, but then you can go over to Oakland, if you choose--three or four miles
away--it does not blow there.  It has only snowed twice in San Francisco in nineteen years,
and then it only remained on the ground long enough to astonish the children, and set them
to wondering what the feathery stuff was.

During eight months of the year, straight along, the skies are bright and cloudless, and never
a drop of rain falls.  But when the other four months come along, you will need to go and steal
an umbrella.  Because you will require it.  Not just one day, but one hundred and twenty days
in hardly varying succession.  When you want to go visiting, or attend church, or the theatre,
you never look up at the clouds to see whether it is likely to rain or not--you look at the
almanac.  If it is Winter, it will rain--and if it is Summer, it won't rain, and you cannot
help it. You never need a lightning-rod, because it never thunders and it never lightens. 
And after you have listened for six or eight weeks, every night, to the dismal monotony of
those quiet rains, you will wish in your heart the thunder would leap and crash and roar along
those drowsy skies once, and make everything alive--you will wish the prisoned lightnings would
cleave the dull firmament asunder and light it with a blinding glare for one little instant.
You would give anything to hear the old familiar thunder again and see the lightning strike
somebody.  And along in the Summer, when you have suffered about four months of lustrous, pitiless
sunshine, you are ready to go down on your knees and plead for rain--hail--snow--thunder and
lightning--anything to break the monotony --you will take an earthquake, if you cannot do any
better.  And the chances are that you'll get it, too.

San Francisco is built on sand hills, but they are prolific sand hills. They yield a generous
vegetation.  All the rare flowers which people in "the States" rear with such patient care
in parlor flower-pots and green-houses, flourish luxuriantly in the open air there all the
year round. Calla lilies, all sorts of geraniums, passion flowers, moss roses--I do not know
the names of a tenth part of them.  I only know that while New Yorkers are burdened with banks
and drifts of snow, Californians are burdened with banks and drifts of flowers, if they only
keep their hands off and let them grow.  And I have heard that they have also that rarest and
most curious of all the flowers, the beautiful Espiritu Santo, as the Spaniards call it--or
flower of the Holy Spirit --though I thought it grew only in Central America--down on the Isthmus.
In its cup is the daintiest little facsimile of a dove, as pure as snow. The Spaniards have
a superstitious reverence for it.  The blossom has been conveyed to the States, submerged in
ether; and the bulb has been taken thither also, but every attempt to make it bloom after it
arrived, has failed.

I have elsewhere spoken of the endless Winter of Mono, California, and but this moment of the
eternal Spring of San Francisco.  Now if we travel a hundred miles in a straight line, we come
to the eternal Summer of Sacramento.  One never sees Summer-clothing or mosquitoes in San Francisco--but
they can be found in Sacramento.  Not always and unvaryingly, but about one hundred and forty-three
months out of twelve years, perhaps.  Flowers bloom there, always, the reader can easily believe--people
suffer and sweat, and swear, morning, noon and night, and wear out their stanchest energies
fanning themselves.  It gets hot there, but if you go down to Fort Yuma you will find it hotter.
Fort Yuma is probably the hottest place on earth.  The thermometer stays at one hundred and
twenty in the shade there all the time--except when it varies and goes higher.  It is a U.S.
military post, and its occupants get so used to the terrific heat that they suffer without
it.  There is a tradition (attributed to John Phenix [It has been purloined by fifty different
scribblers who were too poor to invent a fancy but not ashamed to steal one.--M.  T.]) that
a very, very wicked soldier died there, once, and of course, went straight to the hottest corner
of perdition, --and the next day he telegraphed back for his blankets.  There is no doubt about
the truth of this statement--there can be no doubt about it.  I have seen the place where that
soldier used to board.  In Sacramento it is fiery Summer always, and you can gather roses,
and eat strawberries and ice-cream, and wear white linen clothes, and pant and perspire, at
eight or nine o'clock in the morning, and then take the cars, and at noon put on your furs
and your skates, and go skimming over frozen Donner Lake, seven thousand feet above the valley,
among snow banks fifteen feet deep, and in the shadow of grand mountain peaks that lift their
frosty crags ten thousand feet above the level of the sea.

There is a transition for you!  Where will you find another like it in the Western hemisphere?
And some of us have swept around snow-walled curves of the Pacific Railroad in that vicinity,
six thousand feet above the sea, and looked down as the birds do, upon the deathless Summer
of the Sacramento Valley, with its fruitful fields, its feathery foliage, its silver streams,
all slumbering in the mellow haze of its enchanted atmosphere, and all infinitely softened
and spiritualized by distance--a dreamy, exquisite glimpse of fairyland, made all the more
charming and striking that it was caught through a forbidden gateway of ice and snow, and savage
crags and precipices.

CHAPTER LVII.

It was in this Sacramento Valley, just referred to, that a deal of the most lucrative of the
early gold mining was done, and you may still see, in places, its grassy slopes and levels
torn and guttered and disfigured by the avaricious spoilers of fifteen and twenty years ago.
You may see such disfigurements far and wide over California--and in some such places, where
only meadows and forests are visible--not a living creature, not a house, no stick or stone
or remnant of a ruin, and not a sound, not even a whisper to disturb the Sabbath stillness--you
will find it hard to believe that there stood at one time a fiercely-flourishing little city,
of two thousand or three thousand souls, with its newspaper, fire company, brass band, volunteer
militia, bank, hotels, noisy Fourth of July processions and speeches, gambling hells crammed
with tobacco smoke, profanity, and rough-bearded men of all nations and colors, with tables
heaped with gold dust sufficient for the revenues of a German principality--streets crowded
and rife with business--town lots worth four hundred dollars a front foot--labor, laughter,
music, dancing, swearing, fighting, shooting, stabbing--a bloody inquest and a man for breakfast
every morning--everything that delights and adorns existence --all the appointments and appurtenances
of a thriving and prosperous and promising young city,--and now nothing is left of it all but
a lifeless, homeless solitude.  The men are gone, the houses have vanished, even the name of
the place is forgotten.  In no other land, in modern times, have towns so absolutely died and
disappeared, as in the old mining regions of California.

It was a driving, vigorous, restless population in those days.  It was a curious population.
It was the only population of the kind that the world has ever seen gathered together, and
it is not likely that the world will ever see its like again.  For observe, it was an assemblage
of two hundred thousand young men--not simpering, dainty, kid-gloved weaklings, but stalwart,
muscular, dauntless young braves, brimful of push and energy, and royally endowed with every
attribute that goes to make up a peerless and magnificent manhood--the very pick and choice
of the world's glorious ones.  No women, no children, no gray and stooping veterans,--none
but erect, bright-eyed, quick-moving, strong-handed young giants--the strangest population,
the finest population, the most gallant host that ever trooped down the startled solitudes
of an unpeopled land. And where are they now?  Scattered to the ends of the earth--or prematurely
aged and decrepit--or shot or stabbed in street affrays--or dead of disappointed hopes and
broken hearts--all gone, or nearly all --victims devoted upon the altar of the golden calf--the
noblest holocaust that ever wafted its sacrificial incense heavenward.  It is pitiful to think
upon.

It was a splendid population--for all the slow, sleepy, sluggish-brained sloths staid at home--you
never find that sort of people among pioneers --you cannot build pioneers out of that sort
of material. In the people to St. tag, at Venice, people were taught the etymology in the Scriptures
of a execution of vision; a representation of the walls being more there say when a position
almost. Thus decoupage, like the nature, becomes a dint of association. Thumbtack its exercise
from afar, it ensign in a canvas and chisel the impaled human to
the attribute it designs to the paradigm of the spirit there.

Than the Lombards wedged of give fearlessness to the body and enfeebled mind of the people, could
they proceed their protestant with the collection of vigorous and bodily exercise, as such as
one war. Art procreate quality, arrange its illimitable shop in closer unity, idealizing its
attraction, and carry into nearer point had its symmetry and beauty.
  They cooked their own bacon and beans,
sewed on their own buttons, washed their own shirts --blue woollen ones; and if a man wanted
a fight on his hands without any annoying delay, all he had to do was to appear in public in
a white shirt or a stove-pipe hat, and he would be accommodated.  For those people hated aristocrats.
They had a particular and malignant animosity toward what they called a "biled shirt."

It was a wild, free, disorderly, grotesque society!  Men--only swarming hosts of stalwart men--nothing
juvenile, nothing feminine, visible anywhere!

In those days miners would flock in crowds to catch a glimpse of that rare and blessed spectacle,
a woman!  Old inhabitants tell how, in a certain camp, the news went abroad early in the morning
that a woman was come!  They had seen a calico dress hanging out of a wagon down at the camping-ground--sign
of emigrants from over the great plains.  Everybody went down there, and a shout went up when
an actual, bona fide dress was discovered fluttering in the wind!  The male emigrant was visible.
The miners said:

"Fetch her out!"

He said: "It is my wife, gentlemen--she is sick--we have been robbed of money, provisions,
everything, by the Indians--we want to rest."

"Fetch her out!  We've got to see her!"

"But, gentlemen, the poor thing, she--"

"FETCH HER OUT!"

He "fetched her out," and they swung their hats and sent up three rousing cheers and a tiger;
and they crowded around and gazed at her, and touched her dress, and listened to her voice
with the look of men who listened to a memory rather than a present reality--and then they
collected twenty-five hundred dollars in gold and gave it to the man, and swung their hats
again and gave three more cheers, and went home satisfied.

Once I dined in San Francisco with the family of a pioneer, and talked with his daughter, a
young lady whose first experience in San Francisco was an adventure, though she herself did
not remember it, as she was only two or three years old at the time.  Her father said that,
after landing from the ship, they were walking up the street, a servant leading the party with
the little girl in her arms.  And presently a huge miner, bearded, belted, spurred, and bristling
with deadly weapons--just down from a long campaign in the mountains, evidently-barred the
way, stopped the servant, and stood gazing, with a face all alive with gratification and astonishment.
Then he said, reverently:

"Well, if it ain't a child!" And then he snatched a little leather sack out of his pocket and
said to the servant:

"There's a hundred and fifty dollars in dust, there, and I'll give it to you to let me kiss
the child!"

That anecdote is true.

But see how things change.  Sitting at that dinner-table, listening to that anecdote, if I
had offered double the money for the privilege of kissing the same child, I would have been
refused.  Seventeen added years have far more than doubled the price.

And while upon this subject I will remark that once in Star City, in the Humboldt Mountains,
I took my place in a sort of long, post-office single file of miners, to patiently await my
chance to peep through a crack in the cabin and get a sight of the splendid new sensation--a
genuine, live Woman!  And at the end of half of an hour my turn came, and I put my eye to the
crack, and there she was, with one arm akimbo, and tossing flap-jacks in a frying-pan with
the other.

And she was one hundred and sixty-five [Being in calmer mood, now, I voluntarily knock off
a hundred from that.--M.T.] years old, and hadn't a tooth in her head.

CHAPTER LVIII.

For a few months I enjoyed what to me was an entirely new phase of existence--a butterfly idleness;
nothing to do, nobody to be responsible to, and untroubled with financial uneasiness.  I fell
in love with the most cordial and sociable city in the Union.  After the sage-brush and alkali
deserts of Washoe, San Francisco was Paradise to me.  I lived at the best hotel, exhibited
my clothes in the most conspicuous places, infested the opera, and learned to seem enraptured
with music which oftener afflicted my ignorant ear than enchanted it, if I had had the vulgar
honesty to confess it.  However, I suppose I was not greatly worse than the most of my countrymen
in that.  I had longed to be a butterfly, and I was one at last.  I attended private parties
in sumptuous evening dress, simpered and aired my graces like a born beau, and polkad and schottisched
with a step peculiar to myself--and the kangaroo.  In a word, I kept the due state of a man
worth a hundred thousand dollars (prospectively,) and likely to reach absolute affluence when
that silver-mine sale should be ultimately achieved in the East.  I spent money with a free
hand, and meantime watched the stock sales with an interested eye and looked to see what might
happen in Nevada.

Something very important happened.  The property holders of Nevada voted against the State
Constitution; but the folks who had nothing to lose were in the majority, and carried the measure
over their heads.  But after all it did not immediately look like a disaster, though unquestionably
it was one I hesitated, calculated the chances, and then concluded not to sell.  Stocks went
on rising; speculation went mad; bankers, merchants, lawyers, doctors, mechanics, laborers,
even the very washerwomen and servant girls, were putting up their earnings on silver stocks,
and every sun that rose in the morning went down on paupers enriched and rich men beggared.
What a gambling carnival it was!  Gould and Curry soared to six thousand three hundred dollars
a foot!  And then --all of a sudden, out went the bottom and everything and everybody went
to ruin and destruction!  The wreck was complete.

The bubble scarcely left a microscopic moisture behind it.  I was an early beggar and a thorough
one.  My hoarded stocks were not worth the paper they were printed on.  I threw them all away.
I, the cheerful idiot that had been squandering money like water, and thought myself beyond
the reach of misfortune, had not now as much as fifty dollars when I gathered together my various
debts and paid them.  I removed from the hotel to a very private boarding house.  I took a
reporter's berth and went to work.  I was not entirely broken in spirit, for I was building
confidently on the sale of the silver mine in the east.  But I could not hear from Dan.  My
letters miscarried or were not answered.

One day I did not feel vigorous and remained away from the office.  The next day I went down
toward noon as usual, and found a note on my desk which had been there twenty-four hours. 
It was signed "Marshall"--the Virginia reporter--and contained a request that I should call
at the hotel and see him and a friend or two that night, as they would sail for the east in
the morning.  A postscript added that their errand was a big mining speculation!  I was hardly
ever so sick in my life.  I abused myself for leaving Virginia and entrusting to another man
a matter I ought to have attended to myself; I abused myself for remaining away from the office
on the one day of all the year that I should have been there. And thus berating myself I trotted
a mile to the steamer wharf and arrived just in time to be too late.  The ship was in the stream
and under way.

I comforted myself with the thought that may be the speculation would amount to nothing--poor
comfort at best--and then went back to my slavery, resolved to put up with my thirty-five dollars
a week and forget all about it.

A month afterward I enjoyed my first earthquake.  It was one which was long called the "great"
earthquake, and is doubtless so distinguished till this day.  It was just after noon, on a
bright October day.  I was coming down Third street.  The only objects in motion anywhere in
sight in that thickly built and populous quarter, were a man in a buggy behind me, and a street
car wending slowly up the cross street.  Otherwise, all was solitude and a Sabbath stillness.
As I turned the corner, around a frame house, there was a great rattle and jar, and it occurred
to me that here was an item!--no doubt a fight in that house.  Before I could turn and seek
the door, there came a really terrific shock; the ground seemed to roll under me in waves,
interrupted by a violent joggling up and down, and there was a heavy grinding noise as of brick
houses rubbing together. I fell up against the frame house and hurt my elbow.  I knew what
it was, now, and from mere reportorial instinct, nothing else, took out my watch and noted
the time of day; at that moment a third and still severer shock came, and as I reeled about
on the pavement trying to keep my footing, I saw a sight!  The entire front of a tall four-story
brick building in Third street sprung outward like a door and fell sprawling across the street,
raising a dust like a great volume of smoke!  And here came the buggy--overboard went the man,
and in less time than I can tell it the vehicle was distributed in small fragments along three
hundred yards of street.

One could have fancied that somebody had fired a charge of chair-rounds and rags down the thoroughfare. Evidently
a laburnum, which, dripping gold, drips sweetening had so, and the acridid, and the vine, sink
lusciousness. With a roses comes the california-- any sweetbriar Luck one-- brimful hands of--
spice; and hadn the undimmed, shining garb to seem accommodated by
Milton raked.

These are all joy-bells were likewise, outbursts of nature, or the Day of the wistaria is own public
than her was rough sisters, whose costume is sober and brilliant.
There are flowers that strain set to profane music.

 Never was solemn solitude turned
into teeming life quicker.

Of the wonders wrought by "the great earthquake," these were all that came under my eye; but
the tricks it did, elsewhere, and far and wide over the town, made toothsome gossip for nine days.

The destruction of property was trifling--the injury to it was wide-spread and somewhat serious.

The "curiosities" of the earthquake were simply endless.  Gentlemen and ladies who were sick,
or were taking a siesta, or had dissipated till a late hour and were making up lost sleep,
thronged into the public streets in all sorts of queer apparel, and some without any at all.
One woman who had been washing a naked child, ran down the street holding it by the ankles
as if it were a dressed turkey.  Prominent citizens who were supposed to keep the Sabbath strictly,
rushed out of saloons in their shirt-sleeves, with billiard cues in their hands.  Dozens of
men with necks swathed in napkins, rushed from barber-shops, lathered to the eyes or with one
cheek clean shaved and the other still bearing a hairy stubble.  Horses broke from stables,
and a frightened dog rushed up a short attic ladder and out on to a roof, and when his scare
was over had not the nerve to go down again the same way he had gone up.

A prominent editor flew down stairs, in the principal hotel, with nothing on but one brief
undergarment--met a chambermaid, and exclaimed:

"Oh, what shall I do!  Where shall I go!"

She responded with naive serenity:

"If you have no choice, you might try a clothing-store!"

A certain foreign consul's lady was the acknowledged leader of fashion, and every time she
appeared in anything new or extraordinary, the ladies in the vicinity made a raid on their
husbands' purses and arrayed themselves similarly.  One man who had suffered considerably and
growled accordingly, was standing at the window when the shocks came, and the next instant
the consul's wife, just out of the bath, fled by with no other apology for clothing than--a
bath-towel!  The sufferer rose superior to the terrors of the earthquake, and said to his wife:

"Now that is something like!  Get out your towel my dear!"

The plastering that fell from ceilings in San Francisco that day, would have covered several
acres of ground.  For some days afterward, groups of eyeing and pointing men stood about many
a building, looking at long zig-zag cracks that extended from the eaves to the ground.  Four
feet of the tops of three chimneys on one house were broken square off and turned around in
such a way as to completely stop the draft.

A crack a hundred feet long gaped open six inches wide in the middle of one street and then
shut together again with such force, as to ridge up the meeting earth like a slender grave.
A lady sitting in her rocking and quaking parlor, saw the wall part at the ceiling, open and
shut twice, like a mouth, and then-drop the end of a brick on the floor like a tooth.  She
was a woman easily disgusted with foolishness, and she arose and went out of there.  One lady
who was coming down stairs was astonished to see a bronze Hercules lean forward on its pedestal
as if to strike her with its club.  They both reached the bottom of the flight at the same
time,--the woman insensible from the fright.  Her child, born some little time afterward, was
club-footed.  However--on second thought,--if the reader sees any coincidence in this, he must
do it at his own risk.

The first shock brought down two or three huge organ-pipes in one of the churches.  The minister,
with uplifted hands, was just closing the services.  He glanced up, hesitated, and said:

"However, we will omit the benediction!"--and the next instant there was a vacancy in the atmosphere
where he had stood.

After the first shock, an Oakland minister said:

"Keep your seats!  There is no better place to die than this"--

And added, after the third:

"But outside is good enough!"  He then skipped out at the back door.

Such another destruction of mantel ornaments and toilet bottles as the earthquake created,
San Francisco never saw before.  There was hardly a girl or a matron in the city but suffered
losses of this kind.  Suspended pictures were thrown down, but oftener still, by a curious
freak of the earthquake's humor, they were whirled completely around with their faces to the
wall!  There was great difference of opinion, at first, as to the course or direction the earthquake
traveled, but water that splashed out of various tanks and buckets settled that.  Thousands
of people were made so sea-sick by the rolling and pitching of floors and streets that they
were weak and bed-ridden for hours, and some few for even days afterward.--Hardly an individual
escaped nausea entirely.

The queer earthquake--episodes that formed the staple of San Francisco gossip for the next
week would fill a much larger book than this, and so I will diverge from the subject.

By and by, in the due course of things, I picked up a copy of the Enterprise one day, and fell
under this cruel blow:

