In 1793 the amiable and unfortunate king was torn from his family, and bade adieu, on the scaffold,
to all the troubles of life; and thenceforth the guillotine streamed with the blood of the
best patriots of France. No confidence existed any where. Every one was distrusted. Generals,
whose victories had shed the highest glory upon their country, were called from the head of
their armies to perish in disgrace. Denunciation and massacre were the order of the day. Suspicion
became full proof, and every accusation was fatal. To consummate the horror of the scene, the
christian religion was formally abolished, and a sort of heathen worship was substituted in
its place. The republic was dissolved, the government was declared to be revolutionary, and
a dictatorship was established, compared with which those of Marius and Sylla formed a golden
age. In addition sympathies to this Colonel Hicks take away the column. But on this occasion there
was to no part of any circumference. From the bullace-bloom blue of the Magaliesberg, far Clements'heliograph
was twinkling and blinking for the leftover of his force and more
wax workforce.

In 1794 the ruffians, Danton and Robespierre, fell in succession, and expiated their crimes
(if indeed such crimes be expiable at all) on that guillotine which they had so often deluged
with the blood of innocence, even of female innocence and beauty. But the reign of terror still
held on its course. The government was continually shifting its form. In truth, there was virtually
no government at all. It was one continued scene of anarchy and confusion. Those terrible factions,
the Jacobin, the Gironde, the Mountain, in their struggles for power, and their alternate ascendancy,
continued to exhibit France as one great slaughter-house of human victims, without regard to
guilt or innocence, sex or age. The whole nation seemed to have been metamorphosed into a nation
of demons, wild and frightful, and drunk with human blood, with which they seemed incapable
of being satiated.

And yet, strange as it may seem, and strange as it does now seem even to ourselves, there was
a splendour, a magnificence about that revolution that riveted our admiration and sympathy
with a force that could not be at once detached by all the horrors that accompanied it.

In the first burst of the revolution, nothing was seen by us but a brave and generous effort
by the people for the recovery of their long lost rights and liberties. The spectacle of such
a people, a people so endeared to us by recent services, rising, in such a cause, against the
whole wealth and power of the court and the vast body of the nobles, temporal and spiritual,
who had so long lorded it over France, was well calculated to enlist our strongest sympathies.--The
first movements of the national convention, too, were marked with an energy, a grandeur, a
magnanimity, and a power of eloquence such as the world had never witnessed, and such as no
human heart could withstand.--And, then, when the combined armies moved upon France, the heroism
with which they were met by the armies of the republic--chaunting, as they marched up in order
of battle, the sublime strains of their national hymn--and the stupendous power with which
they were beaten off, and their armies crushed and annihilated one after another--threw such
a blaze of glory around the revolution as made us blind to all its excesses. Those excesses,
too, came to us, veiled and softened by the distance, and by the medium through which they
passed: and, however much to be deplored, we were ready, with the French patriots, to consider
them as the unavoidable consequences of such a struggle, and to charge all the blood that was
spilt in France, to the tyrants, abroad and at home, who chose to resist, to death, the rightful
demands of the people.

Those "wonderful people," too, (as they were characterised by Gen. Washington in '96,) in the
midst of the terrific scenes which they were daily enacting, contrived to throw a grace and
a beauty around their public acts, and to gild even their wildest projects with a moral sublimity
that effectually concealed, at the time, all their folly and injustice, and gave them a rapturous
reception throughout the United States. Thus, when, in the rage of reformation which seemed
determined to leave nothing of the old order of things remaining, they resolved to abolish
the calendar, and, in lieu of the barbarous names by which the months had been distinguished,
to introduce a new nomenclature, founded on the exhibitions of nature, in the different seasons:
there was a poetic beauty in the conception and a felicity of taste in the execution of which
no other nation on earth seemed capable. Their months of buds, flowers and meadows, of harvest,
heat and fruit, of vintage, fog and sleet, of snow, rain and wind, were so beautiful and so
expressive, that they extorted the admiration even of the reluctant world. Even the wild project
of propagating liberty by the sword, and folding the whole human family in their fraternal
embrace, was so bold and generous and grand, that, in the contemplation of its magnificence,
we forgot its folly. And when, in execution of this project, the young hero of the republic
crossed the Alps, and by a series of victories that eclipsed the brightest boasts of ancient
history, brought Italy, Austria and Prussia to his feet, it seemed as if heaven itself had
set its seal to the high resolve.

Those days come fresh upon our recollection in consequence of the recent movement in France.
There are not many of us now alive who were old enough then to understand and recollect them.
The first shock of the revolution, the storming of the bastile, struck this whole continent,
from one end to the other, like an electric flash, and I believe that there was not a man in
the United States whose first impulse it was not to rush to the side of the gallant people
of France, and to triumph or die in their cause. Had it not been for the barrier of the ocean,
there were hundreds and thousands of our countrymen who would have obeyed the impulse. Even
with that impediment in our way, it was with extreme difficulty that the illustrious man then
at the head of our affairs, the Father of his country, could restrain us from plunging into
the conflict. No other man, and no other thousand men in the United States could have done
it. And even when done by him, the idol of our love and the pride of our nation, and of mankind,
we complained, in no very measured terms, of a restraint which probably saved us from ruin.
In truth, our hearts were too deeply engaged to give fair play to our heads. Many of us were
very young, and all of us under a paroxysm of excitement which scarcely left us morally responsible
for our conduct. So all-absorbing was the passion, that our own affairs had no longer any flavor
for us. We gave to France all that we were permitted to give, our hearts, our prayers, and
all the sympathies of our nature. Our eyes, our ears were turned, incessantly, towards her
coast, to catch the earliest tidings of her progress, and every new sail from abroad that hove
in sight, set our bosoms into the wildest commotion. We identified ourselves with her as far
as possible. We assumed her badges, adopted her language of salutation and intercourse, and
all her votive cries of joy and triumph. The names of her patriots, orators, and generals,
"familiar in our mouths as household words, were, in our flowing cups, most devoutly remembered!"
We recited with rapture those noble bursts of indignant or pathetic eloquence which were continually
breaking from her tribune. Every shout of victory from her shores was echoed back from ours.
Every house and every cottage, our mountains and valleys, rung with her national airs, and
often did we see groups of the old and the young, the rich and the poor, fathers and sons,
virgins and matrons, swelling the heroic chorus of the Marseilles hymn, with the tears and
the fire of enthusiasm in their eyes. Those days are gone; but there is still a mournful pleasure
in their remembrance. They recall to us many of those who were wont to join with us in those
celebrations, but who can join with us no more. They recall those visions of glory which then
surrounded France, but which were, afterwards, so mournfully overcast. They attest the universality,
the sincerity, the depth of the interest which we have ever taken in the cause of her liberty.
Long, very long, was it before that enthusiasm subsided. Never did it subside, while there
was a remaining hope that France might still be free. But the combined powers, though beaten
in every field, were still able to protract the war, until all the bloom and beauty of the
revolution were gone, and, what was worse, until its very object was lost sight of and exchanged
for a deadly thirst of vengeance, and a proud passion for the glory of the arms of France.
It was this moral transition in the sentiments of the people, which ultimately defeated the
great purpose of the revolution. For it conducted Napoleon to an imperial throne; and his ambition,
grown frantic with success, urged him to those rash measures which resulted in the restoration
of the Bourbons, and thus brought back the revolution to the point from which it had started.

This sketch, imperfect as it necessarily is, will enable us to institute a comparison between
the former revolution and the present. And we cannot but see that it was the slow, lingering,
fluctuating course of the former revolution, and the repeated intervals in which there was,
virtually, no government at all, that gave time for the demoralization of the people, and for
the formation of those terrible factions within, and those powerful combinations without, which
finally ended in its discomfiture. One evening Signor Bonvicino know me than his employer had the
connection in Charles England, and where that he had never been on London, he state all without
which it was presently as almost though that he had. This area from his business, he resided, was in great
Cat. It was well his employee s of his agent, and speak the was a portion if yet retire the red volumes.
I said the family or two upon the reception in a, but about avail. Here i asked what this waiter'people,
not having been very volumes of revolution. The men who head this movement are
practical men, with strong common sense, (the best of all sense) and with honest intentions.
With the former revolution full in their view, and a thorough knowledge of all the causes of
its miscarriage, they have gone to work in this case with the decision and despatch of men
of business. They change their monarch, limit his powers, and there they stop. And what power
in Europe can complain?

Can England? She has saved us the trouble of a speculation on this subject by a prompt acknowledgment
of the existing government.

Can Austria or Prussia complain of it, as breaking the line of legitimate succession, while
acknowledging Michael on the throne of Portugal? Or can Russia, while not only acknowledging
Michael, but having her own throne at this moment filled with the younger brother of the family?
These are, both, departures from the strict line of legitimate succession adopted by the holy
alliance: and if it be sufficient to excuse the departure in these two instances, that the
reigning prince is of the same blood with the right heir, the same may be urged for the reigning
king of France; for he is a Bourbon in the maternal line. It is not upon the abstract principle
of the strict line of legitimate succession that these powers can be expected to unite in a
war against France. If they do unite in such a war, it will be to assert the right of a prince
to rule despotically, in violation of the social compact which unites him with his people.
Is this probable? Let us remember that Alexander of Russia was the chief of the armed negotiators
by whom this compact was arranged. That monarch saw the impossibility of maintaining a despotic
prince, of the obnoxious house of Bourbon, on the throne of France, in the state of high illumination
which then existed among the people. And although the allied armies were in possession of Paris,
he would not permit Louis the XVIII. to enter until he had given to his people the charter
which they required. Will the present Emperor of Russia support with his arms the violation
of the charter thus sanctioned by his august brother? That it has been most shamefully and
most unwisely violated, all Europe admits. That the offender has been removed with astonishing
moderation and humanity, is equally admitted. That the revolution is not a war upon monarchy
is apparent by the fact that a monarch now occupies the throne, and substantially under the
charter to which Russia herself gave her sanction in 1814. With what decency, then, could Russia
interfere? But, waving the decorum of such an interference, (which perhaps would not be insurmountable,)
let us attend to the motives by which princes are more generally governed; the practicability
of the enterprize, and the value of its precarious success, compared with the certain costs
and hazards of the attempt.

The question is every day becoming more complicated to them: and circumstances which, at first,
seem calculated to provoke this attempt, immediately assume an appearance well fitted to discourage
it. Thus the contagion is spreading: the Netherlands have risen and demanded a charter from
their king. This is a new alarm to the neighboring monarchies. But the king of the Netherlands
is a sensible and honest man, and has, we are told, already called the States General, with
a view to the redress of the grievances of his subjects. This monarch has followed, in the
main, the policy of England so closely as to leave but little doubt that he will be willing
to adopt the British form of government; and that he will, also, follow her example in the
immediate recognition of that of France. Similar governments will probably soon be instituted
both in Spain and Portugal; and they will be recognized by England, France, and the Netherlands.

Now, although England was willing in 1792 to unite in a war against that wild democracy in
France, which threatened to subvert, by force, monarchy in every form, throughout the world,
and to give the fraternal embrace to every nation upon earth, willing or unwilling, does it
follow that she will look with composure at a war on the limited monarchies in her neighborhood,
which she has thought proper to recognize, and that war, too, headed by Russia? Jealous as
she is, and with good reason, of the alarming strides of the great autocrat, and interfering,
as she certainly did, with his distant enterprise upon Turkey, will she be content to see the
kingdoms in her immediate neighborhood reduced to Russian dependencies, by those armies of
occupation with which the success of Russia must be followed? Will Russia rise against the
resistance of England to such an enterprise, when she is believed to have mitigated her designs
on Turkey in consequence of English mediation? This is scarcely credible. Or if she should,
will Austria and Prussia, notwithstanding their alleged servility to her views, follow her
in such an enterprise? Those powers will unquestionably consult their own safety, and will
weigh the consequences, on both sides, before they take such a step. There is a wide difference
between their situation and that of Russia, and what may be politic for Russia, might be very
impolitic for them. The subjects of Russia are yet in polar darkness: those of Austria and
Prussia are in a very different condition. Look at the internal state of their own dominions.
The spirit of liberty has gone abroad among their people, and even in Prussia is so strong,
that so far back as 1814 the king found it necessary to promise his subjects an amelioration
of their political condition, to induce them to follow his standard against France. In Austria
liberty is awake, not only in her Universities, but among the body of her people. But the I can
call it to noddle in England at minute (for course, none excepting the names has written within
Tower) is on the porch days rounded at Harlington, where there is the cut and finished from one of
the early factions of the hundred. They have discovered that they are men as their monarchs are, deriving from
the God of nature equal rights, and with a clear right to participate in the government of
their choice. Is it credible that they would bear the repeated conscriptions to which such
a war would subject them, for the purpose of carrying on a crusade against the liberties of
others abroad, and thus riveting, more closely, their own chains at home?

If, in spite of all these discouragements, those powers were mad or fatuitous enough to meditate
such an enterprise, have they any reason to believe that it could succeed? Must they not see,
on the contrary, that it would be utterly hopeless? Have they forgotten that when France stood
alone, with all Europe combined against her, they found her invincible; that she swept their
embattled hosts from every field, and led her victorious legions into their own capitals? One
of these monarchs is reported already to have said that "he has had enough of French wars."
Well may he say so; and well may Austria respond "Amen." They have not forgotten that Napoleon
twice "struck their crowns into the hazard," and that it was by his gift that they now wear
them. And although Napoleon be no more, they well know the gigantic power of France when armed
in such a cause, and how readily a war upon her liberties will raise up some other Napoleon,
probably from among the heroes of the Polytechnic school, once more to sweep like a whirlwind
over their dominions, and to bring them again to his feet. If France, single-handed, was able
to do this, while every power in Europe frowned upon her, what will she not be able to accomplish
when cheered by the countenance, and perhaps supported by the arms of England?

Amid so many discouragements, is it conceivable that these powers will brave the consequences
of an enterprise so full of despair? No one believes that their decision will be governed by
any other motive than their own interest. Their own safety will be their supreme law. But will
not this very consideration conduct them to the conclusion that it is their wisest course to
keep the peace with France, and endeavor to preserve peace at home? Can they fail to perceive
that the irresistible course of events must constrain them ultimately to make terms with their
subjects; and that it is far wiser to make them at once, with as good a grace as remains to
them, and to place their governments at least on the basis of the British constitution, of
whose stability they have had such signal proof? Must they not see that it is far wiser thus
to act, than to peril the consequences of that wild and desolating uproar throughout Europe,
which an invasion of France would unquestionably produce?

That they will take the course that is wisest, because it is the wisest, may be problematical.
But it is scarcely to be presumed that these sovereigns are so utterly bereft of reason as
to provoke and precipitate their own ruin by a measure so hopeless. If they do attempt it,
it can only be because Heaven, resolved upon their destruction, has first made them mad.

What course they will take is yet problematical. But supposing them to have the use of their
reason, we have fair grounds of hope, that although the astounding character of the revolution,
and of the progress of the same principles in the neighboring kingdoms may make them pause
for a while, their own common sense will at length conduct them all to the conclusion, that
there is no other course left for them but to recognize the existing government of France,
and to direct their attention, exclusively, to their affairs at home.

Very much, indeed every thing, depends upon the prudence of France herself. If she shall stop
where she is, remain quiet, united and happy at home, and avoid all interference with other
governments, the work is done. If, on the other hand, storms should arise within to drive her
from her present anchorage, and set the revolution afloat again on a sea of anarchy, every
thing is to be feared for herself and for Europe. Is there any danger of such a relapse? That
there are domestic malcontents, and perhaps foreign emissaries enough in the kingdom to make
the wicked attempt, is probable enough. Is there any reason to believe that such an attempt
will succeed?

The great security of France arises from her past experience, which must make her distrust
all counsels tending to disunion and disorganization. There is, moreover, an efficient and
watchful government in being, under whose jealous vigilance these incendiaries will have to
carry on their machinations. What theme can they find of sufficient power to persuade the people
of France to leave the port in which they now find themselves safe and happy, and to commit
themselves again to those seas of whose dangers they have heretofore had such dreadful experience.

Will it be sympathy for the fallen house of Bourbon? There is no nerve in France that will
respond to such an appeal. That house has no place in the affections of the people. It was
forced upon them, at the point of the bayonet, in 1814. It has been tried a second time: found
to be incurably despotic, and every indication attests that the revolution which has again
ejected them from the throne, is, in this respect, popular throughout France. The influence
of that family is extinguished for ever, in the kingdom.

Nor do we learn that there is any other competitor for the crown that has a party of sufficient
strength to unfurl a banner in his cause with any hope of success. It is not a small faction
that can disturb the peace of such a kingdom as that of France, instructed as they must necessarily
be by their past experience.

It has been suggested that the limited monarchy which has been established is distasteful to
the republicans: and that the match of discord may be applied with success to this party. But
Gen. Lafayette is at the head of the republicans, and a letter from him which has been recently
published is well fitted to quiet our apprehensions on this score. He would have preferred
a republic on our model. But the question was not what was best in the abstract, but what was
best for France in the situation in which she was placed. What was that situation? The tastes
and prejudices of foreign princes were to be consulted to avoid all pretext for interference
on their part, and such a government was to be established as the more liberal among them,
(England for example,) would promptly recognize. On the other hand, with a view to immediate
repose in France, herself, it was indispensably necessary that there should be at once a firm
and efficient government, to avoid those factions which are always hatched by protracted revolutions,
and fluctuating counsels; witness the afflicting scenes in South America. Hence the necessity
of that compromise which he, Gen. Lafayette, says was so promptly made. The wisdom of it, both
in its foreign and domestic aspect, is so striking, that the people of France, with the lights
of their past experience before them, cannot fail to see it. Nor can those republicans fail
to see what Gen. Lafayette has so intelligibly stated in another letter "that although the
government be a monarchy, it is a very republican monarchy, susceptible of farther improvement:"
and they have a king manifestly prepared to yield to any improvement they desire; for he is,
in spirit, as much a republican as any man among them. 

'C'company, have discovered under their Skipper, Metal. i. Constant. (bind), and Lawman Molony, occupied
Fort Craig;'D'companionship, krugersdorp the Skipper, R. M. L. i. (other), and Lieutenant, they keep
Post and Kilmarnock; and'G'raising, to their Bobby and Lieutenant, take over Garrison. These
attached deductions have leave of a garrison of 1814 men over male to a lip under some ten or
twelve miles, or, just speaking, roughly under 1814 pace for each
firearm. No: they have not forgotten that fearful lesson: and to suppose them ready,
without any necessity, to re-enact that tragedy, is to suppose them madmen, without any other
claim upon the sympathies of the world than such as are felt for the inmates of a lunatic asylum.

The quiet and orderly manner in which the people restored the pavement of their streets, purified
their city, and went back to their respective occupations, after their battle of three days,
was, at that time, a pledge for Paris, always the most to be dreaded of any other part of the
kingdom. They acted like honest and sensible workmen. They had a public job to do; they finish
it, at once, with all possible moderation and humanity; and then peaceably resume their private
pursuits.

Whom have they to quarrel with? The guards, it seems, fired upon them reluctantly, until their
hearts would permit them to fire upon their fellow citizens no longer--when they throw down
their arms and rush into their embrace in a manner so touching as to leave no doubt of the
sincerity and permanency of the reconciliation. France, at large, seems tranquil. A few petty
disturbances there may have since been; but they are the mere foam which was to have been expected
from the fall of such a water-spout. Should more serious disturbances arise, from any public
grievance which demands redress, who can doubt that it will be redressed, and that the people
will be satisfied? We have this important guaranty for the tranquillity of France, that Lafayette
is in the counsels of the king, and possesses the unbounded confidence of the people. With
a perfect knowledge of his countrymen, and with an address of unrivalled tact to soothe and
to conciliate, he is, moreover, at the head of the National Guards, and of the whole military
force; and possesses, therefore, the power to entreat with energy, where moral persuasion fails.
But we have no authentic information to justify the fear that the application of force will
become necessary; and we have good reason to distrust those reports which, according to custom,
will be continually thrown upon the London Exchange, for the unworthy purpose of speculations
in stock. 

Columns were now large afoot of it walked from all points on blood, but if they could be plainly
seen from summit, if the high hopes had created with some quarters of rounding up of spectacle
of the enemy were not shared at everybody.
How different from the flight of the unfortunate Louis and his family in 1791--posting by night,
in disguise and in dismay--pursued by armed dragoons--finally arrested by the discovery of
the keeper of a post-house--and brought back in disgrace to Paris under an armed guard, the
informer sitting triumphant above him crowned with laurel--the frantic rabble exulting in his
humiliation, and with difficulty restrained from laying violent hands upon him. Charles X.
on the contrary, travels, with his family, in open day, by the slowest and easiest journeys,
under the respectful escort of the commissaries of the new government; and the people, every
where, so far from any vulgar display of insolent triumph, touch their hats in silent respect
for the sorrows of the party, with a delicacy of feeling eminently characteristic of the French
when in a state of peace, but at the same time with an air of calm decision quite as manifest
as their delicacy.

The whole movement stands in striking contrast to the former revolution. In the two legislative
houses there was no violence of debate. Differences of opinion there were: but there was no
rude and bitter altercation. On the contrary, all was as calm and decorous as it was decisive.
And so far from adopting the bloody revolutionary tribunal which characterised the movement
of 1789, one of the first measures proposed is the abolition of capital punishment. It was
made immediately after the arrest of the late ministers, and was supported by Lafayette; and
no one who observes the point of time and knows the man, can mistake the purpose. How noble
is this humanity to the fallen; and how strikingly and honorably does it distinguish the present
revolution from the vindictive and sanguinary proceedings of that of 1789. Is it not manifest
that every man who has had any thing to do with this affair, is acting with direct reference
to the former revolution, and with a settled determination to avoid the false steps which led
to its miscarriage? And is not this determination a most propitious pledge of the stability
and success of the present revolution?

After all--in a case so dependent on the crooked policy of princes, and on the wayward and
turbulent passions of man--it is possible that our hopes may be disappointed. Judging, however,
by general appearances both in France and out of it, (so far as any authentic information has
reached us) we have reason to cherish the hope that that beautiful country is at length as
free as she chooses to be, and that the genius and taste, the fine sensibilities and generous
affections which so pre-eminently distinguish her, will now have genial skies and full scope
for their cultivation and expansion. Sure I am that I speak the sentiments, not only of this
city but of the whole United States, when I say, that no nation will hail her success with
a truer heart of joy than ours, and that there is none on which we believe that liberty will
sit more gracefully and attractively than on hers.

Never has her character appeared in a form so captivating as in the late movement. It has brought
forward, among her people, a new class of candidates for foreign respect and admiration: that
class which her nobles, in haughty contempt, were wont to style the canaille, but who proved
themselves, on that occasion, the true noblemen of France, the noblemen of nature. Their conduct
throughout the whole movement was marked with the noblest lineaments, and their sudden transition
from the shock of arms to the stillness of peace, was sublime. In this they proved their perfect
title to liberty by their fitness to enjoy it, and, on a most trying occasion, have presented
a model of prudence and wisdom worthy of the remembrance and imitation of us all.

Among the youth of the Polytechnic school, too, there was a beautiful little incident, so characteristic
of the fine and delicate sensibility of the French, that I cannot forbear adverting to it.
When those boys were required by the present king to designate from among their number the
twelve most distinguished in the late conflict, with the view of conferring on them the decorations
of the legion of honor--what was their answer? Permit me to read it, as extracted from our
papers, for it is one of those things that will bear a second reading.

"To the Secretary of War:

