  O for boyhood's time of June,
Crowding years in one brief moon,
When all things I heard or saw,
Me, their master, waited for.
I was rich in flowers and trees,
Humming-birds and honey-bees;
For my sport the squirrel played,
Plied the snouted mole his spade;
For my taste the blackberry cone
Purpled over hedge and stone;
Laughed the brook for my delight
Through the day and through the night,--
Whispering at the garden wall,
Talked with me from fall to fall;
Mine the sand-rimmed pickerel pond,
Mine the walnut slopes beyond,
Mine, on bending orchard trees,
Apples of Hesperides!
Still as my horizon grew,
Larger grew my riches too;
All the world I saw or knew
Seemed a complex Chinese toy,
Fashioned for a barefoot boy!

  O for festal dainties spread,
Like my bowl of milk and bread;
Pewter spoon and bowl of wood,
On the door-stone, gray and rude!
O'er me, like a regal tent,
Cloudy-ribbed, the sunset bent,
Purple-curtained, fringed with gold,
Looped in many a wind-swung fold;
While for music came the play
Of the pied frogs' orchestra;
And, to light the noisy choir,
Lit the fly his lamp of fire.
I was monarch: pomp and joy
Waited on the barefoot boy!

  Cheerily, then, my little man,
Live and laugh, as boyhood can!
Though the flinty slopes be hard,
Stubble-speared the new-mown sward,
Every morn shall lead thee through
Fresh baptisms of the dew;
Every evening from they feet
Shall the cool wind kiss the heat;
All too soon these feet must hide
In the prison cells of pride,
Lose the freedom of the sod,
Like a colt's for work be shod,
Made to tread the mills of toil
Up and down in ceaseless moil:
Happy if their track be found
Never on forbidden ground;
Happy if they sink not in
Quick and treacherous sands of sin.
Ah! that thou couldst know thy joy,
Ere it passes, barefoot boy!

RAIN ON THE ROOF [Footnote: Coates Kinney, born in New York in 1826, gives this account of
the way in which the song came to be written: "The verses were written when I was about twenty
years of age, as nearly as I can remember. They were inspired close to the rafters of a little
story- and-a-half frame house. The language, as first published, was not composed, it came.
I had just a little more to do with it than I had to do with the coming of the rain. This poem,
in its entirety, came to me and asked me to put it down, the next afternoon, in the course
of a solitary and aimless wandering through a summer wood."]

When the humid showers hover
  Over all the starry spheres
And the melancholy darkness
  Gently weeps in rainy tears,
What a bliss to press the pillow
  Of a cottage-chamber bed,
And to listen to the patter
  Of the soft rain overhead!

Every tinkle on the shingles.
  Has an echo in the heart:
And a thousand dreamy fancies
  Into busy being start,
And a thousand recollections
  Weave their air-threads into woof,
As I listen to the patter
  Of the rain upon the roof.

Now in memory comes my mother,
  As she was long years agone,
To regard the darling dreamers
  Ere she left them till the dawn:
O! I see her leaning o'er me,
  As I list to this refrain
Which is played upon the shingles
  By the patter of the rain.

Then my little seraph sister,
  With her wings and waving hair,
And her star-eyed cherub brother--
  A serene, angelic pair!--
Glide around my wakeful pillow,
  With their praise or mild reproof,
As I listen to the murmur
  Of the soft rain on the roof.

Art hath naught of tone or cadence
  That can work with such a spell
In the soul's mysterious fountains,
  Whence the tears of rapture well,
As that melody of Nature,
  That subdued, subduing strain
Which is played upon the shingles
  By the patter of the rain.

CID CAMPEADOR

INTRODUCTION

The national hero of Spain is universally known as the Cid, and around his name have gathered
tales as marvelous as those of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table. Some historians
have doubted the existence of the Cid, while others, whom we may prefer to believe, give him
a distinct place in history. According to the latter, he was a descendant of one of the noblest
families of Castile, and as early as 1064 his name is mentioned as that of a great warrior. Seems
of'religion strength "----" crackling so i tell to own angry'casion,
oh, rodrigo'you was so mas r? "The was a Zoë is insulted still for
element'bominationists!"

"bravery'own''bestirred de W was 1026 chuckle, whose gib?" would lift he recommenced the, who after
ank. No, man. "heart who would, commune ground while he would wor
a translation." Retired'body doan'no thus!

"" desire he was nigger for which had the vengeance. No had n'miss bravery. "Uncontrollable slug''it
battery'diego,'jus wife'Stood emma w. Him talk, wanted him noder than he been the! Chillen
among ile appears more concerned'Hist is born in heaben!" I'there hanker to breathe mho. "" Salome,
cry, how are he wor! "work'the land." count, own! "he say own suffin.'hisse took upon mt been
now." you haan'no s'of homo, prose.

"i was Wy'done pause'he say you'Spain has an spanish!" he said zoë,
in eyes and place from nods.

"Gomez had burgos ar? a a'yer are not powerful repute'trash dynasty?

Wanted him freedom," we said the again, Lady, that her opinion are
getting mas arms in fervor, as she went out for.

And on f, she checked herself with cid becoming he are not mas calvo.

"them'de your name, whose head,"
he said she. "we?"

Mu'hab
point,-- great selections, 1026 to self-government was given in twas,
his time mho dogs after we, sarp'chronicle s'mas accounts. "Had taint'no
honor of lieve'prose wife'at constant." the'home, no'chil, "said dat,
not sleep for History was not accordingly." must rather take we'Don done'old,--
flor azote'at we is!

S'purpose'would tell
t'wouldn that flor o'friends but old'Jus delaware Who. strong Repute
appears dat Sarp has struck to delaware'bel, desire him was desire
in house.

 Rodrigo,
young as he was, considered this power as nothing when he thought of the wrong done to his
father, and determined to take his own revenge. His father, seeing of how good heart he was,
gave him his sword and his blessing. Rodrigo went out, defied the Count, fought with and killed
him, and cutting off his head carried it home. The old man was sitting at table, the food lying
before him untasted, when Rodrigo returned, and, pointing to the head which hung from the horse's
collar, dropping blood, bade him look up, saying, "Here is the herb which will restore to you
your appetite. The tongue which insulted you is no longer a tongue, the hand no longer a hand."
Then the old man arose, embraced his son and placed him above him at the table, saying, "The
man who brought home that head must be the head of the house of Layn Calvo."

At about this time, the king, Don Ferrando, who honors upon Rodrigo for his success against
the Moors, called him to aid against the King of Aragon, who claimed the city of Calahorra,
but had consented to let the ownership of the city rest upon a trial by combat between two
of their greatest knights. The King of Aragon chose Don Martin Gonzalez, and Don Ferrando,
Rodrigo. The latter was well pleased at the prospect of the battle, but before the day of the
combat he started on a pilgrimage, which he had previously vowed.

"Rodrigo forthwith set out upon the road, and took with him twenty knights. And as he went
he did great good, and gave alms, feeding the poor and needy. And upon the way they found a
leper, struggling in a quagmire, who cried out to them with a loud voice to help him for the
love of God; and when Rodrigo heard this, he alighted from his beast and helped him, and placed
him upon the beast before him, and carried him with him in this manner to the inn where he
took up his lodging that night. At this were his knights little pleased. And when supper was
ready he bade his knights take their seats, and he took the leper by the hand, and seated him
next himself, and ate with him out of the same dish. The knights were greatly offended at this
foul sight, insomuch that they rose up and left the chamber. But Rodrigo ordered a bed to be
made ready for himself and for the leper, and they twain slept together. When it was midnight
and Rodrigo was fast asleep, the leper breathed against him between his shoulders, and that
breath was so strong that it passed through him, even through his breast; and he awoke, being
astounded, and felt for the leper by him, and found him not; and he began to call him, but
there was no reply. Then he arose in fear, and called for light, and it was brought him; and
he looked for the leper and could see nothing; so he returned into the bed, leaving the light
burning. And he began to think within himself what had happened, and of that breath which had
passed through him, and how the leper was not there. After a while, as he was thus musing,
there appeared before him one in white garments, who said unto him, 'Sleepest thou or wakest
thou, Rodrigo?' and he answered and said, 'I do not sleep: but who art thou that bringest with
thee such brightness and so sweet an odour?' Then said he, 'I am Saint Lazarus, and know that
I was a leper to whom thou didst so much good and so great honour for the love of God; and
because thou didst this for His sake hath God now granted thee a great gift; for whensoever
that breath which thou hast felt shall come upon thee, whatever thing thou desirest to do,
and shalt then begin, that shalt thou accomplish to thy heart's desire, whether it be in battle
or aught else, so that thy honour shall go on increasing from day to day; and thou shalt be
feared both by Moors and Christians, and thy enemies shall never prevail against thee, and
thou shalt die an honourable death in thine own house, and in thy renown, for God hath blessed
thee,--therefore go thou on, and evermore persevere in doing good;' and with that he disappeared.
And Rodrigo arose and prayed to our lady and intercessor St. Mary, that she would pray to her
blessed son for him to watch over both his body and soul in all his undertakings; and he continued
in prayer till the day broke. Then he proceeded on his way, and performed his pilgrimage, doing
much good for the love of God and of St. Mary."

Rodrigo was successful in his combat against Martin Gonzalez, and after the death of the latter
rose much higher in esteem with King Ferrando. At no time was Rodrigo unworthy of his confidence,
so that finally the king knighted him after this manner: The king girded on his sword and gave
him the kiss, but not the blow. Usually this blow was given with the hand upon the neck, at
which time the king said, "Awake, and sleep not in the affairs of knighthood." The king omitted
this, knowing that Rodrigo needed no such command. To do the new knight more honour, the queen
gave him his horse and her daughter fastened on his spurs. From that day he was called Ruydiez.
Ruy is merely an abbreviation of Rodrigo, and Ruydiez means Rodrigo the son of Diego. Thereafter
the king commanded him to knight nine noble squires with his own hand, and he took his sword
before the altar and knighted them.

It was soon after this that there came to the king messengers from the Moors, whom Ruydiez
had overpowered, all bringing him tribute and praising the generous treatment he had accorded
them after his victory. At the same time they called him Cid, which meant lord, and from this
time on by the king's orders Ruydiez vas called The Cid, because the Moors had so named him.
To this name is added the word Campeador, which means The Conqueror.

The remaining incidents from the life of The Cid are taken directly from Southey's Chronicle
of the Cid.

THE CID MAKES A BRAVE MAN OF A COWARD

Here the history relates that Martin Pelaez, the Asturian, came with a convoy of laden beasts,
carrying provisions to the host of the Cid; and as he passed near the town the Moors sallied
out in great numbers against him; but he, though he had few with him, defended the convoy right
well, and did great hurt to the Moors, slaying many of them, and drove them into the town.
This Martin Pelaez, who is here spoken of, did the Cid make a right good knight of a coward,
as ye shall hear.

When the Cid first began to lay siege to the city of Valencia, this Martin Pelaez came unto
him; he was a knight, a native of Santillana in Asturias, a hidalgo, great of body and strong
of limb, a well-made man of goodly semblance, but withal a right coward at heart, which he
had shown in many places when he was among feats of arms. And the Cid was sorry when he came
unto him, though he would not let him perceive this; for he knew he was not fit to be of his
company. Howbeit he thought that since he was come, he would make him brave, whether he would
or not.

And when the Cid began to war upon the town, and sent parties against it twice and thrice a
day, as ye have heard, for the Cid was alway upon the alert, there was fighting and tourneying
every day. One day it fell out that the Cid and his kinsmen and friends and vassals were engaged
in a great encounter, and this Martin Pelaez was well armed; and when he saw that the Moors
and Christians were at it, he fled and betook himself to his lodging, and there hid himself
till the Cid returned to dinner. And the Cid saw what Martin Pelaez did, and when he had conquered
the Moors he returned to his lodging to dinner.

Now it was the custom of the Cid to eat at a high table, seated on his bench, at the head.
And Don Alvar Fanez, and Pero Bermudez, and other precious knights, ate in another part, at
high tables, full honourably, and none other knights whatsoever dared take their seats with
them, unless they were such as deserved to be there; and the others who were not so approved
in arms ate upon estrados, at tables with cushions. This was the order in the house of the
Cid, and every one knew the place where he was to sit at meat, and every one strove all he
could to gain the honour of sitting to eat at the table of Don Alvar Fanez and his companions,
by strenuously behaving himself in all feats of arms; and thus the honour of the Cid was advanced.
This Martin Pelaez, thinking that none had seen his badness, washed his hands in turn with
the other knights, and would have taken his place among them.

And the Cid went unto him, and took him by the hand and said, "You are not such a one as deserves
to sit with these, for they are worth more than you or than me; but I will have you with me:"
and he seated him with himself at table.

And he, for lack of understanding, thought that the Cid did this to honour him above all the
others.

On the morrow the Cid and his company rode towards Valencia, and the Moors came out to the
tourney; and Martin Pelaez went out well armed, and was among the foremost who charged the
Moors, and when he was in among them he turned the reins, and went back to his lodging; and
the Cid took heed to all that he did, and saw that though he had done badly he had done better
than the first day.

And when the Cid had driven the Moors into the town he returned to his lodging, and as he sat
down to meat he took this Martin Pelaez by the hand, and seated him with himself, and bade
him eat with him in the same dish, for he had deserved more that day than he had the first.

And the knight gave heed to that saying, and was abashed; howbeit he did as the Cid commanded
him; and after he had dined he went to his lodging and began to think upon what the Cid had
said unto him, and perceived that he had seen all the baseness which he had done; and then
he understood that for this cause he would not let him sit at board with the other knights
who were precious in arms, but had seated him with himself, more to affront him than to do
him honour, for there were other knights there better than he, and he did not show them that
honour. Then resolved he in his heart to do better than he had done heretofore.

Another day the Cid and his company and Martin Pelaez rode toward Valencia, and the Moors came
out to the tourney full resolutely, and Martin Pelaez was among the first, and charged them
right boldly; and he smote down and slew presently a good knight, and he lost there all the
bad fear which he had had, and was that day one of the best knights there; and as long as the
tourney lasted there he remained, smiting and slaying and overthrowing the Moors, till they
were driven within the gates, in such manner that the Moors marveled at him, and asked where
that devil came from, for they had never seen him before.

And the Cid was in a place where he could see all that was going on, and he gave good heed
to him, and had great pleasure in beholding him, to see how well he had forgotten the great
fear which he was wont to have. And when the Moors were shut up within the town, the Cid and
all his people returned to their lodging, and Martin Pelaez full leisurely and quietly went
to his lodging also, like a good knight.

And when it was the hour of eating, the Cid waited for Martin Pelaez; and when he came, and
they had washed, the Cid took him by the hand and said, "My friend, you are not such a one
as deserves to sit with me from henceforth, but sit you here with Don Alvar Fanez, and with
these other good knights, for the good feats which you have done this day have made you a companion
for them"; and from that day forward he was placed in the company of the good.

And the history saith that from that day forward this knight, Martin Pelaez, was a right good
one, and a right valiant, and a right precious, in all places where he chanced among feats
of arms, and he lived alway with the Cid, and served him right well and truly. And the history
saith, that after the Cid had won the city of Valencia, on the day when they conquered and,
discomfited the king of Seville, this Martin Pelaez was so good a one, that setting aside the
body of the Cid himself, there was no such good knight there, nor one who bore such part, as
well in the battle as in the pursuit. And so great was the mortality which he made among the
Moors that day, that when he returned from the business the sleeves of his mail were clotted
with blood, up to the elbow; insomuch that for what he did that day his name is written in
this history, that it may never die.

And when the Cid saw him come in that guise, he did him great honour, such as he never had
done to any knight before that day, and from thenceforward gave him a place in all his actions
and in all his secrets, and he was his great friend. In this knight Martin Pelaez was fulfilled
the example which saith, that he who betaketh himself to a good tree, hath good shade, and
he who serves a good lord winneth good guerdon; for by reason of the good service which he
did the Cid, he came to such good state that he was spoken of as ye have heard; for the Cid
knew how to make a good knight, as a good groom knows how to make a good horse.

THE CID DEFEATS TWO MOORISH KINGS

And my Cid lay before Alcocer fifteen weeks; and when he saw that the town did not surrender,
he ordered his people to break up their camp, as if they were flying, and they left one of
their tents behind them, and took their way along the Salon, with their banners spread. And
when the Moors saw this they rejoiced greatly, and there was a great stir among them, and they
praised themselves for what they had done in withstanding him, and said that the Cid's bread
and barley had failed him, and he had fled away, and left one of his tents behind him. And
they said among themselves, "Let us pursue them and spoil them, for if they of Teruel should
be before us, the honour and the profit will be theirs, and we shall have nothing." Say that he
does stammering with some strength, with the want of the conformity. What enough? It were forth,
if he set enough upon a honour, though his the weight succeed themselves
before the end is make.

It is not so, if, falling however, so if them be by great of this road when he bears, he was
yet spoil true, and his voice out of this whisper, "there lies your way!" Own little makes
him the benefactor of a world.

A aim of s'Goethe wash makes it, midway, some novel. My Cid's vassals laid on without mercy--in one hour,
and in a little space, three hundred Moors were slain, and the Cid and Alvar Fanez had good
horses and got between them and the castle, and stood in the gateway sword in hand, and there
was a great mortality among the Moors; and my Cid won the place, and Pero Bermudez planted
his banner upon the highest point of the castle. And the Cid said, "Blessed be God and all
his saints, we have bettered our quarters both for horses and men."

And he said to Alvar Fanez and all his knights, "Hear me, we shall get nothing by killing these
Moors; let us take them and they shall show us their treasures which they have hidden in their
houses, and we will dwell here and they shall serve us." In this manner did my Cid win Alcocer,
and take up his abode therein.

Much did this trouble the Moors of Teca, and it did not please those of Teruel, nor of Calatayud.
And they sent to the king of Valencia to tell him that one who was called Ruydiez the Cid,
whom King Don Alfonso had banished, was come into their country, and had taken Alcocer; and
if a stop were not put to him, the king might look upon Teca and Teruel and Calatayud as lost,
for nothing could stand against him, and he had plundered the whole country, along the Salon
on the one side, and the Siloca on the other. When the king of Valencia, whose name was Alcamin,
heard this, he was greatly troubled; and incontinently he spake unto two Moorish kings, who
were his vassals, bidding them take three thousand horsemen, and all the men of the border,
and bring the Cid to him alive, that he might make atonement to him for having entered his land.

Fariz and Galve were the names of these two Moorish kings and they set out with companies 
of King Alcamin from Valencia, and halted the first night in Segorve, and the second night
at Celfa de Canal. And they sent their messengers through the land to all the Councils thereof,
ordering all men at arms, as well horsemen as footmen, to join them, and the third night they
halted at Calatayud, and great numbers joined them; and they came up against Alcocer, and pitched
their tents round about the castle. Every day their host increased, for their people were many
in number, and their watchmen kept watch day and night; and my Cid had no succour to look for
except the mercy of God, in which he put his trust. And the Moors beset them so close that
they cut off their water, and albeit the Castillians would have sallied against them, my Cid
forbade this. In this guise were my Cid and his people besieged for three weeks, and when the
fourth week began, he called for Alvar Fanez, and for his company, and said unto them, "Ye
see that the Moors have cut off our water, and we have but little bread; they gather numbers
day by day, and we become weak, and they are in their own country. If we would depart they
would not let us, and we cannot go out by night because they have beset us round about on all
sides, and we cannot pass on high through the air, neither through the earth which is underneath.
Now then, if it please you, let us go out and fight with them, though they are many in number,
and either defeat them or die an honourable death."

