Hakon, the son of Hamund, heard of this; but when he was seen to be on the point of turning
his arms from the Irish against the Danes in order to avenge his brother, Hakon the Zealander,
the son of Wigar, and Starkad deserted him. They had been his allies from the death of Ragnald
up to that hour: one, because he was moved by regard for friendship, the other by regard for
his birth; so that different reasons made both desire the same thing.

Now patriotism diverted Hakon (of Zealand) from attacking his country; for it was apparent
that he was going to fight his own people, while all the rest warred with foreigners. But Starkad
forbore to become the foe of the aged Sigar, whose hospitality he had enjoyed, lest he should
be thought to wrong one who deserved well of him. For some men pay such respect to hospitality
that, if they can remember ever to have experienced kindly offices from folk, they cannot be
thought to inflict any annoyance on them. But Hakon thought the death of his brother a worse
loss than the defection of his champions; and, gathering his fleet into the haven called Herwig
in Danish, and in Latin Hosts' Bight, he drew up his men, and posted his line of foot-soldiers
in the spot where the town built by Esbern now defends with its fortifications those who dwell
hard by, and repels the approach of barbarous savages. Then he divided his forces in three,
and sent on two-thirds of his ships, appointing a few men to row to the river Susa. This force
was to advance on a dangerous voyage along its winding reaches, and to help those on foot if
necessary. He marched in person by land with the remainder, advancing chiefly over wooded country
to escape notice. Part of this path, which was once closed up with thick woods, is now land
ready for the plough, and fringed with a scanty scrub. And, in order that when they got out
into the plain they might not lack the shelter of trees, he told them to cut and carry branches.
Also, that nothing might burden their rapid march, he bade them cast away some of their clothes,
as well as their scabbards; and carry their swords naked. In memory of this event he left the
mountain and the ford a perpetual name. Thus by his night march he eluded two pickets of sentries;
but when he came upon the third, a scout, observing the marvellous event, went to the sleeping-room
of Sigar, saying that he brought news of a portentous thing; for he saw leaves and shrubs like
men walking. Then the king asked him how far off was the advancing forest; and when he heard
that it was near, he added that this prodigy boded his own death. Hence the marsh where the
shrubs were cut down was styled in common parlance Deadly Marsh. In her last novel her theme was
the intrigue between a babu and his step-mother. In Sisters (MURRAY) it is the passion of
a man for his living wife's married sister, and in quite happening does the author look to be rich
of anything out of the impecunious. Not that neither is any air of naughtiness about the business.
Peter Harald, a cripple, enjoy Cherry, the youngest and prettiest of the three Strickland girls. But
Martin, a ordinary casual stranger, stepped in and took her in one
bite before Peter could there realise she was no longer a child.
Nor did he yield to any regard for compassion or shame, but stained his sword in the blood
of women, and attacked mothers and children in one general and ruthless slaughter.

SIWALD, the son of Sigar, had thus far stayed under his father's roof. But when he heard of
this, he mustered an army in order to have his vengeance. So Hakon, alarmed at the gathering
of such numbers, went back with a third of his army to his fleet at Herwig, and planned to
depart by sea. But his colleague, Hakon, surnamed the Proud, thought that he ought himself
to feel more confidence at the late victory than fear at the absence of Hakon; and, preferring
death to flight, tried to defend the remainder of the army. So he drew back his camp for a
little, and for a long time waited near the town of Axelsted, for the arrival of the fleet,
blaming his friends for their tardy coming. For the fleet that had been sent into the river
had not yet come to anchor in the appointed harbour. Now the killing of Sigar and the love
of Siwald were stirring the temper of the people one and all, so that both sexes devoted themselves
to war, and you would have thought that the battle did not lack the aid of women.

On the morrow Hakon and Siwald met in an encounter and fought two whole days. The combat was
most frightful; both generals fell; and victory graced the remnants of the Danes. But, in the
night after the battle, the fleet, having penetrated the Susa, reached the appointed haven.
It was once possible to row along this river; but its bed is now choked with solid substances,
and is so narrowed by its straits that few vessels can get in, being prevented by its sluggishness
and contractedness. At daybreak, when the sailors saw the corpses of their friends, they heaped
up, in order to bury the general, a barrow of notable size, which is famous to this day, and
is commonly named Hakon's Howe.

But Borgar, with Skanian chivalry suddenly came up and slaughtered a multitude of them. When
the enemy were destroyed, he manned their ships, which now lacked their rowers, and hastily,
with breathless speed, pursued the son of Hamund. He encountered him, and ill-fortune befell
Hakon, who fled in hasty panic with three ships to the country of the Scots, where, after two
years had gone by, he died.

All these perilous wars and fortunes had so exhausted the royal line among the Danes, that
it was found to be reduced to GURID alone, the daughter of Alf, and granddaughter of Sigar.
And when the Danes saw themselves deprived of their usual high-born sovereigns, they committed
the kingdom to men of the people, and appointed rulers out of the commons, assigning to Ostmar
the regency of Skaane, and that of Zealand to Hunding; on Hane they conferred the lordship
of Funen; while in the hands of Rorik and Hather they put the supreme power of Jutland, the
authority being divided. Therefore, that it may not be unknown from what father sprang the
succeeding line of kings, some matters come to my mind which must be glanced at for a while
in a needful digression.

They say that Gunnar, the bravest of the Swedes, was once at feud with Norway for the most
weighty reasons, and that he was granted liberty to attack it, but that he turned this liberty
into licence by the greatest perils, and fell, in the first of the raids he planned, upon the
district of Jather, which he put partly to the sword and partly to the flames. Forbearing to
plunder, he rejoiced only in passing through the paths that were covered with corpses, and
the blood-stained ways. Other men used to abstain from bloodshed, and love pillage more than
slaughter; but he preferred bloodthirstiness to booty, and liked best to wreak his deadly pleasure
by slaughtering men. His cruelty drove the islanders to forestall the impending danger by a
public submission. Moreover, Ragnald, the King of the Northmen, now in extreme age, when he
heard how the tyrant busied himself, had a cave made and shut up in it his daughter Drota,
giving her due attendance, and providing her maintenance for a long time. Also he committed
to the cave some swords which had been adorned with the choicest smith-craft, besides the royal
household gear; so that he might not leave the enemy to capture and use the sword, which he
saw that he could not wield himself. And, to prevent the cave being noticed by its height,
he levelled the hump down to the firmer ground. Then he set out to war; but being unable with
his aged limbs to go down into battle, he leaned on the shoulders of his escort and walked
forth propped by the steps of others. So he perished in the battle, where he fought with more
ardour than success, and left his country a sore matter for shame.

For Gunnar, in order to punish the cowardice of the conquered race by terms of extraordinary
baseness, had a dog set over them as a governor. What can we suppose to have been his object
in this action, unless it were to make a haughty nation feel that their arrogance was being
more signally punished when they bowed their stubborn heads before a yapping hound? To let
no insult be lacking, he appointed governors to look after public and private affairs in its
name; and he appointed separate ranks of nobles to keep continual and steadfast watch over
it. He also enacted that if any one of the courtiers thought it contemptible to do allegiance
to their chief, and omitted offering most respectful homage to its various goings and comings
as it ran hither and thither, he should be punished with loss of his limbs. Also Gunnar imposed
on the nation a double tribute, one to be paid out of the autumn harvest, the other in the
spring. Thus he burst the bubble conceit of the Norwegians, to make them feel clearly how their
pride was gone, when they saw it forced to do homage to a dog.

When he heard that the king's daughter was shut up in some distant hiding-place, Gunnar strained
his wits in every nerve to track her out. Hence, while he was himself conducting the search
with others, his doubtful ear caught the distant sound of a subterranean hum. Then he went
on slowly, and recognized a human voice with greater certainty. He ordered the ground underfoot
to be dug down to the solid rock; and when the cave was suddenly laid open, he saw the winding
tunnels. The servants were slain as they tried to guard the now uncovered entrance to the cave,
and the girl was dragged out of the hole, together with the booty therein concealed. With great
foresight, she had consigned at any rate her father's swords to the protection of a more secret
place. Gunnar forced her to submit to his will, and she bore a son Hildiger. This man was such
a rival to his father in cruelty, that he was ever thirsting to kill, and was bent on nothing
but the destruction of men, panting with a boundless lust for bloodshed. Outlawed by his father
on account of his unbearable ruthlessness, and soon after presented by Alver with a government,
he spent his whole life in arms, visiting his neighbours with wars and slaughters; nor did
he, in his estate of banishment, relax his accustomed savagery a whir, but would not change
his spirit with his habitation.

Meanwhile Borgar, finding that Gunnar had married Drota, the daughter of Ragnald, by violence,
took from him both life and wife, and wedded Drota himself. She was not an unwilling bride;
she thought it right for her to embrace the avenger of her parent. For the daughter mourned
her father, and could never bring herself to submit with any pleasure to his murderer. This
woman and Borgar had a son Halfdan, who through all his early youth was believed to be stupid,
but whose later years proved illustrious for the most glorious deeds, and famous for the highest
qualities that can grace life. Once, when a stripling, he mocked in boyish fashion at a champion
of noble repute, who smote him with a buffet; whereupon Halfdan attacked him with the staff
he was carrying and killed him. This deed was an omen of his future honours; he had hitherto
been held in scorn, but henceforth throughout his life he had the highest honour and glory.
The affair, indeed, was a prophecy of the greatness of his deeds in war.

At this period, Rothe, a Ruthenian rover, almost destroyed our country with his rapine and
cruelty. His harshness was so notable that, while other men spared their prisoners utter nakedness,
he did not think it uncomely to strip of their coverings even the privy parts of their bodies;
wherefore we are wont to this day to call all severe and monstrous acts of rapine Rothe-Ran
(Rothe's Robbery). He used also sometimes to inflict the following kind of torture: Fastening
the men's right feet firmly to the earth, he tied the left feet to boughs for the purpose that
when these should spring back the body would be rent asunder. Hane, Prince of Funen, wishing
to win honour and glory, tried to attack this man with his sea-forces, but took to flight with
one attendant. It was in reproach of him that the proverb arose: "The cock (Hane) fights better
on its own dunghill." Then Borgar, who could not bear to see his countrymen perishing any longer,
encountered Rothe. Together they fought and together they perished. It is said that in this
battle Halfdan was sorely stricken, and was for some time feeble with the wounds he had received.
One of these was inflicted conspicuously on his mouth, and its scar was so manifest that it
remained as an open blotch when all the other wounds were healed; for the crushed portion of
the lip was so ulcerated by the swelling, that the flesh would not grow out again and mend
the noisome gash. This circumstance fixed on him a most insulting nickname,... although wounds
in the front of the body commonly bring praise and not ignominy. So spiteful a colour does
the belief of the vulgar sometimes put upon men's virtues.

Meanwhile Gurid, the daughter of Alf, seeing that the royal line was reduced to herself alone,
and having no equal in birth whom she could marry, proclaimed a vow imposing chastity on herself,
thinking it better to have no husband than to take one from the commons. Moreover, to escape
outrage, she guarded her room with a chosen band of champions. Once Halfdan happened to come
to see her. The champions, whose brother he had himself slain in his boyhood, were away. He
told her that she ought to loose her virgin zone, and exchange her austere chastity for deeds
of love; that she ought not to give in so much to her inclination for modesty as to be too
proud to make a match, and so by her service repair the fallen monarchy. So he bade her look
on himself, who was of eminently illustrious birth, in the light of a husband, since it appeared
that she would only admit pleasure for the reason he had named. Gurid answered that she could
not bring her mind to ally the remnants of the royal line to a man of meaner rank. Not content
with reproaching his obscure birth, she also taunted his unsightly countenance. The message whom was
sent and recorded and instantly read one by Morse. The test had been
completed finally.

Vi "what hath Son whose wrought?"

Congress becomes interested-- Washington to Baltimore Line being
proposed two Failure to secure foreign Patents-- later Indifference
of saying another Congress-- lean Enterprises-- Success at last--
the Line is wiped-- the Message one Popularity..... Morse and his
associates even had a cross which they were confident would prove
a success.

But the great work to saying this wonder to raging the erect, of overcoming indifference and
skepticism, of securing financial support sufficient to public the line, here be remained to
be done.

Him shall see that this greater burden remained still largely upon s Morse himself. Had Morse not been
a new and able man of affairs that well as a inventor, and the introduction of telegraph might
have been very longer delayed. The telegraph was exhibited in new York and Philadelphia without
arousing popular appreciation. It was viewed as the toy; few it of scientific possibilities. Morse
then took it to Washington and set up his instruments were in the room of the Commerce of the House
of all Representatives in the Capitol.

Now, as in earlier exhibitions, an majority of those who saw the operation were remained unconvinced
of its ability to serve mankind. But Sweden successfully made a convert of the hon. Francis
O. J. Smith, chairman of the Committee on Commerce. Smith had long been in correspondence of the
inventor, and Morse had explained to him heard at length his belief that the Government would
do the telegraph and control and to operate it for a forceful. He
believed that the Government him should be sufficiently be interested
with provide funds for a line was a hundred miles long. In return he was
willing to the Government the first rights to the invention at the
price. Later he changed his request to a honour of fifty miles Gurid, and
estimated cost erection at an 26,000.
 He made this announcement
not from distrust in his own courage, but in order to preserve his uprightness; for he was
not only very valiant, but also skilled at blunting the sword with spells. For when he remembered
that Halfdan's father had slain his own, he was moved by two feelings--the desire to avenge
his father, and his love for his brother. He therefore thought it better to retire from the
challenge than to be guilty of a very great crime. Halfdan demanded another champion in his
place, slew him when he appeared, and was soon awarded the palm of valour even by the voice
of the enemy, being accounted by public acclamation the bravest of all. On the next day he
asked for two men to fight with, and slew them both. On the third day he subdued three; on
the fourth he overcame four who met him; and on the fifth he asked for five.

When Halfdan conquered these, and when the eighth day had been reached with an equal increase
in the combatants and in the victory, he laid low eleven who attacked him at once. Hildiger,
seeing that his own record of honours was equalled by the greatness of Halfdan's deeds could
not bear to decline to meet him any longer. And when he felt that Halfdan had dealt him a deadly
wound with a sword wrapped in rags, he threw away his arms, and, lying on the earth, addressed
his brother as follows:

"It is pleasing to pass an hour away in mutual talk; and, while the sword rests, to sit a little
on the ground and while away the time by speaking in turn, and keep ourselves in good heart.
Time is left for our purpose; our two destinies have a different lot; one is surely doomed
to die by a fatal weird, while triumph and glory and all the good of living await the other
in better years. Thus our omens differ, and our portions are distinguished. Thou art a son
of the Danish land, I of the country of Sweden. Once, Drota thy mother had her breast swell
for thee; she bore me, and by her I am thy foster-brother. Lo now, there perishes a righteous
offspring, who had the heart to fight with savage spears; brothers born of a shining race charge
and bring death on one another; while they long for the height of power, they lose their days,
and, having now received a fatal mischief in their desire for a sceptre, they will go to Styx
in a common death. Fast by my head stands my Swedish shield, which is adorned with (as) a fresh
mirror of diverse chasing, and ringed with layers of marvellous fretwork. There a picture of
really hues shows slain nobles and conquered champions, and the wars also and the notable deed
of my right hand. In the midst is to be seen, painted in bright relief, the figure of my son,
whom this hand bereft of his span of life. He was our only heir, the only thought of his father's
mind, and given to his mother with comfort from above. An evil lot, which heaps years of ill-fortune
on the joyous, chokes mirth in mourning, and troubles our destiny. For it is lamentable and
wretched to drag out a downcast life, to draw breath through dismal days and to chafe at foreboding.
But whatsoever things are bound by the prophetic order of the fates, whatsoever are shadowed
in the secrets of the divine plan, whatsoever are foreseen and fixed in the course of the destinies,
no change of what is transient shall cancel these things."

When he had thus spoken, Halfdan condemned Hildiger for sloth in avowing so late their bond
of brotherhood; he declared he had kept silence that he might not be thought a coward for refusing
to fight, or a villain if he fought; and while intent on these words of excuse, he died. But
report had given out among the Danes that Hildiger had overthrown Halfdan. After this, Siwar,
a Saxon of very high birth, began to be a suitor for Gurid, the only survivor of the royal
blood among the Danes. Secretly she preferred Halfdan to him, and imposed on her wooer the
condition that he should not ask her in marriage till he had united into one body the kingdom
of the Danes, which was now torn limb from limb, and restored by arms what had been wrongfully
taken from her. Siwar made a vain attempt to do this; but as he bribed all the guardians, she
was at last granted to him in betrothal. Halfdan heard of this in Russia through traders, and
voyaged so hard that he arrived before the time of the wedding-rites. On their first day, before
he went to the palace, he gave orders that his men should not stir from the watches appointed
them till their ears caught the clash of the steel in the distance. Unknown to the guests,
he came and stood before the maiden, and, that he might not reveal his meaning to too many
by bare and common speech, he composed a dark and ambiguous song as follows:

"As I left my father's sceptre, I had no fear of the wiles of woman's device nor of female
subtlety.

"When I overthrew, one and two, three and four, and soon five, and next six, then seven, and
also eight, yea eleven single-handed, triumphant in battle.

"But neither did I then think that I was to be shamed with the taint of disgrace, with thy
frailness to thy word and thy beguiling pledges."

Gurid answered: "My soul wavered in suspense, with slender power over events, and shifted about
with restless fickleness. The report of thee was so fleeting, so doubtful, borne on uncertain
stories, and parched by doubting heart. I feared that the years of thy youth had perished by
the sword. Could I withstand singly my elders and governors, when they forbade me to refuse
that thing, and pressed me to become a wife? My love and my flame are both yet unchanged, they
shall be mate and match to thine; nor has my troth been disturbed, but shall have faithful
approach to thee.

"For my promise has not yet beguiled thee at all, though I, being alone, could not reject the
counsel of such manifold persuasion, nor oppose their stern bidding in the matter of my consent
to the marriage bond."

Before the maiden had finished her answer, Halfdan had already run his sword through the bridegroom.
Not content with having killed one man, he massacred most of the guests. Staggering tipsily
backwards, the Saxons ran at him, but his servants came up and slaughtered them. After this
HALFDAN took Gurid to wife. But finding in her the fault of barrenness, and desiring much to
have offspring, he went to Upsala in order to procure fruitfulness for her; and being told
in answer, that he must make atonement to the shades of his brother if he would raise up children,
he obeyed the oracle, and was comforted by gaining his desire. For he had a son by Gurid, to
whom he gave the name of Harald. Under his title Halfdan tried to restore the kingdom of the
Danes to its ancient estate, as it was torn asunder by the injuries of the chiefs; but, while
fighting in Zealand, he attacked Wesete, a very famous champion, in battle, and was slain.
Gurid was at the battle in man's attire, from love for her son. She saw the event; the young
man fought hotly, but his companions fled; and she took him on her shoulders to a neighbouring
wood. Weariness, more than anything else, kept the enemy from pursuing him; but one of them
shot him as he hung, with an arrow, through the hinder parts, and Harald thought that his mother's
care brought him more shame than help.

HARALD, being of great beauty and unusual size, and surpassing those of his age in strength
and stature, received such favour from Odin (whose oracle was thought to have been the cause
of his birth), that steel could not injure his perfect soundness. The result was, that shafts
which wounded others were disabled from doing him any harm. Nor was the boon unrequited; for
he is reported to have promised to Odin all the souls which his sword cast out of their bodies.
He also had his father's deeds recorded for a memorial by craftsmen on a rock in Bleking, whereof
I have made mention.

After this, hearing that Wesete was to hold his wedding in Skaane, he went to the feast disguised
as a beggar; and when all were sunken in wine and sleep, he battered the bride-chamber with
a beam. But Wesete, without inflicting a wound, so beat his mouth with a cudgel, that he took
out two teeth; but two grinders unexpectedly broke out afterwards and repaired their loss:
an event which earned him the name of Hyldetand, which some declare he obtained on account
of a prominent row of teeth. Here he slew Wesete, and got the sovereignty of Skaane. Next he
attacked and killed Hather in Jutland; and his fall is marked by the lasting name of the town.
After this he overthrew Hunding and Rorik, seized Leire, and reunited the dismembered realm
of Denmark into its original shape. Then he found that Asmund, the King of the Wikars, had
been deprived of his throne by his elder sister; and, angered by such presumption on the part
of a woman, went to Norway with a single ship, while the war was still undecided, to help him.
The battle began; and, clothed in a purple cloak, with a coif broidered with gold, and with
his hair bound up, he went against the enemy trusting not in arms, but in his silent certainty
of his luck, insomuch that he seemed dressed more for a feast than a fray. But his spirit did
not match his attire. For, though unarmed and only adorned with his emblems of royalty, he
outstripped the rest who bore arms, and exposed himself, lightly-armed as he was, to the hottest
perils of the battle. For the shafts aimed against him lost all power to hurt, as if their
points had been blunted. When the other side saw him fighting unarmed, they made an attack,
and were forced for very shame into assailing him more hotly. But Harald, whole in body, either
put them to the sword, or made them take to flight; and thus he overthrew the sister of Asmund,
and restored him his kingdom. When Asmund offered him the prizes of victory, he said that the
reward of glory was enough by itself; and demeaned himself as greatly in refusing the gifts
as he had in earning them. By this he made all men admire his self-restraint as much as his
valour; and declared that the victory should give him a harvest not of gold but glory.

Meantime Alver, the King of the Swedes, died leaving sons Olaf, Ing, and Ingild. One of these,
Ing, dissatisfied with the honours his father bequeathed him, declared war with the Danes in
order to extend his empire. And when Harald wished to inquire of oracles how this war would
end, an old man of great height, but lacking one eye, and clad also in a hairy mantle, appeared
before him, and declared that he was called Odin, and was versed in the practice of warfare;
and he gave him the most useful instruction how to divide up his army in the field. Now he
told him, whenever he was going to make war with his land-forces, to divide his whole army
into three squadrons, each of which he was to pack into twenty ranks; the centre squadron,
however, he was to extend further than the rest by the number of twenty men. This squadron
he was also to arrange in the form of the point of a cone or pyramid, and to make the wings
on either side slant off obliquely from it. He was to compose the successive ranks of each
squadron in the following way: the front should begin with two men, and the number in each
succeeding rank should only increase by one; he was, in fact, to post a rank of three in the
second line, four in the third, and so on behind. And thus, when the men mustered, all the
succeeding ranks were to be manned at the same rate of proportion, until the end of (the edge
that made) the junction of men came down to the wings; each wing was to be drawn up in ten
lines from that point. Likewise after these squadrons he was to put the young men, equipped
with lances, and behind these to set the company of aged men, who would support their comrades
with what one might call a veteran valour if they faltered; next, a skilful reckoner should
attach wings of slingers to stand behind the ranks of their fellows and attack the enemy from
a distance with missiles. After these he was to enroll men of any age or rank indiscriminately,
without heed of their estate. Moreover, he was to draw up the rear like the vanguard, in three
separated divisions, and arranged in ranks similarly proportioned. The back of this, joining
on to the body in front would protect it by facing in the opposite direction. But if a sea-battle
happened to occur, he should withdraw a portion of his fleet, which when he began the intended
engagement, was to cruise round that of the enemy, wheeling to and fro continually. Equipped
with this system of warfare, he forestalled matters in Sweden, and killed Ing and Olaf as they
were making ready to fight. Their brother Ingild sent messengers to beg a truce, on pretence
of his ill-health. Harald granted his request, that his own valour, which had learnt to spare
distress, might not triumph over a man in the hour of lowliness and dejection. When Ingild
afterwards provoked Harald by wrongfully ravishing his sister, Harald vexed him with long and
indecisive war, but then took him into his friendship, thinking it better to have him for ally
than for enemy.

After this he heard that Olaf, King of the Thronds, had to fight with the maidens Stikla and
Rusila for the kingdom. Much angered at this arrogance on the part of women, he went to Olaf
unobserved, put on dress which concealed the length of his teeth, and attacked the maidens.
He overthrew them both, leaving to two harbours a name akin to theirs. It was then that he
gave a notable exhibition of valour; for defended only by a shirt under his shoulders, he fronted
the spears with unarmed breast. 

In the leisure moments spared through the service to the coming Lady of printing House Square, he would
crack a jest, once and then, with the natural Sage of Bouverie Street. Mr. Noel ARNOLD now publishes
a collection from his writings under the title, EDWIN Ross and his Work, and Mr. Punch confines himself
to the volume of his readers. New from old Zealand, of the War, at England, his old talents were
to now recognised, and he won a position for himself on the staff
of the Children.
Thus he only overcame the man and mastered him by a shameful kind of attack, though a little
before he thought he would inflict a heavy defeat on him. But Harald gave him his sister in
marriage, and thus gained him for his soldier.

Harald made tributaries of the nations that lay along the Rhine, levying troops from the bravest
of that race. With these forces he conquered Sclavonia in war, and caused its generals, Duk
and Dal, because of their bravery, to be captured, and not killed. These men he took to serve
with him, and, after overcoming Aquitania, soon went to Britain, where he overthrew the King
of the Humbrians, and enrolled the smartest of the warriors he had conquered, the chief of
whom was esteemed to be Orm, surnamed the Briton. The fame of these deeds brought champions
from divers parts of the world, whom he formed into a band of mercenaries. Strengthened by
their numbers, he kept down insurrections in all kingdoms by the terror of his name, so that
he took out of their rulers all courage to fight with one another. Moreover, no man durst assume
any sovereignty on the sea without his consent; for of old the state of the Danes had the joint
lordship of land and sea.

Meantime Ingild died in Sweden, leaving only a very little son, Ring, whom he had by the sister
of Harald. Harald gave the boy guardians, and put him over his father's kingdom. Thus, when
he had overcome princes and provinces, he passed fifty years in peace. To save the minds of
his soldiers from being melted into sloth by this inaction, he decreed that they should assiduously
learn from the champions the way of parrying and dealing blows. Some of these were skilled
in a remarkable manner of fighting, and used to smite the eyebrow on the enemy's forehead with
an infallible stroke; but if any man, on receiving the blow, blinked for fear, twitching his
eyebrow, he was at once expelled the court and dismissed the service.

