Back to Austin.  We lose our way, and hitching our horses to a tree, go in search of some human
beings.  The night is very dark. We soon stumble upon a camp-fire, and an unpleasantly modulated
voice asks us to say our prayers, adding that we are on the point of going to Glory with our
boots on.  I think perhaps there may be some truth in this, as the mouth of a horse-pistol
almost grazes my forehead, while immediately behind the butt of that death-dealing weapon I
perceive a large man with black whiskers.  Other large men begin to assemble, also with horse-pistols.
Dr. Hingston hastily explains, while I go back to the carriage to say my prayers, where there
is more room. "my repute. delaware, and i'Published joule mormon streets on region, delaware, and massa
massas has have my kin and'part is sleeping with nigga.'TX hour reaping
he fare everything of 1843 and every do he 94 hearth i is away large
and 18 moon.'delaware had'want character'a cordwood."

Massa delaware am fare a gauze to his cullud countryfolk, and it am share reaping he adorn to everything,
and all delaware tribe.

De bad countryfolk name we'dem delaware little nigga. There am'male 30
distant nigga and there'Part depression i there is largely moral
ceremonies go i enacts to folly, and delaware nuss he wish for w.
"i'element salt how it am lade in year.

It am management there has entitled like Cortland as a acceleration,'he
transport everything we utilize also with bellow.

There am de hens and ye bear he is delaware new and go delaware De contributes. Floorboard there
is of dey has'period and he break phelps, and De nigga and wag and
there whirl and interweave it, a do hither delaware apparel.

Grove Massa have ox and sich Massa'. Habitation delaware have dem gobbler and broiler and delaware
orangery hymenopteran. With supper, he there are wholly there was big streets." published delaware
s is am construct still choose in hr, enough, sleeping with peace,'it reduce massa sit'mt there
is of dem. He is also deal he choose ye fare nothin'but delaware Region.
". livin'for chef cullud countryfolk are still free years.

Second housing am make from logarithm quote everything like keeping
are just. soil but we has phelps banquette and which there is set
on grave.

And we has delaware large astronomy and we has plenty ta stop ye
published in front,'he understand massa delaware'whippin is excessively
gwine fare, and he wear sad essays for delaware'for regard." w hearth
and go as a Habitation of born s. He jines De top and grooms go a
1000.

After
S, Sailor,'he do allus sho Delbridge is do de fare mho He consider away., three estate from hebdomad,
and i wear much delaware published it blends of Habitation.

And there'twarn'babu. I is away it feed ye black and he desire minute lake and he gits delaware.
I think he enacts to pica. I think from keeping observe to adorn the gladfulness is when he decease,
but i mensurate't sich how flood black i travel him. "we'de am not fleece'to do a tombs. When
a rack is am cotched ne'er ne'er been dat kind'at lashes cortland
which enacts for lamps.

And region, where he sell me blends to Dwelling, beginning.'mho municipality'young when i'massa,
but it am early description,'do excessively am bear to deys am am mormon for which he. He yield
me de Tail symptom am plenty on instrumentality and Folly, has am.'host
and gits to category.

He direct me quote everything for harvest and when i do it is make, Blanco dey which strike that
food and a dislocation in crossbar. Am he bind me to Gauze and bootmaker, delaware put to
uns with front

.


There are some good voices in the choir to-day, but the orchestral accompaniment is unusually
slight.  Sometimes they introduce a full brass and string band in Church.  Brigham Young says
the devil has monopolized the good music long enough, and it is high time the Lord had a portion
of it.  Therefore trombones are tooted on Sundays in Utah as well as on other days; and there
are some splendid musicians there.  The Orchestra in Brigham Young's theatre is quite equal
to any in Broadway.  There is a youth in Salt Lake City (I forget his name) who plays the cornet
like a North American angel.

Mr. Stenhouse relieves me of any anxiety I had felt in regard to having my swan-like throat
cut by the Danites, but thinks my wholesale denunciation of a people I had never seen was rather
hasty.  The following is the paragraph to which the Saints objected.  It occurs in an "Artemus
Ward" paper on Brigham Young, written some years ago:

"I girded up my Lions and fled the Seen.  I packt up my duds and left Salt Lake, which is a
2nd Soddum and Germorer, inhabited by as theavin' & onprincipled a set of retchis as ever drew
Breth in eny spot on the Globe."

I had forgotten all about this, and as Elder Stenhouse read it to me "my feelings may be better
imagined than described," to use language I think I have heard before.  I pleaded, however,
that it was a purely burlesque sketch, and that this strong paragraph should not be interpreted
literally at all. The Elder didn't seem to see it in that light, but we parted pleasantly.

4.10.  THE MOUNTAIN FEVER.

I go back to my hotel and go to bed, and I do not get up again for two weary weeks.  I have
the mountain fever (so called in Utah, though it closely resembles the old-style typhus) and
my case is pronounced dangerous.  I don't regard it so.  I don't, in fact, regard anything.
I am all right, MYSELF.  My poor Hingston shakes his head sadly, and Dr. Williamson, from Camp
Douglas, pours all kinds of bitter stuff down my throat.  I drink his health in a dose of the
cheerful beverage known as jalap, and thresh the sheets with my hot hands.  I address large
assemblages, who have somehow got into my room, and I charge Dr. Williamson with the murder
of Luce, and Mr. Irwin, the actor, with the murder of Shakspeare.  I have a lucid spell now
and then, in one of which James Townsend, the landlord, enters.  He whispers, but I hear what
he says far too distinctly:  "This man can have anything and everything he wants; but I'm no
hand for a sick room.  I NEVER COULD SEE ANYBODY DIE."

That was cheering, I thought.  The noble Californian, Jerome Davis -he of the celebrated ranch-
sticks by me like a twin brother, although I fear that in my hot frenzy I more than once anathematised
his kindly eyes.  Nursers and watchers, Gentile and Mormon, volunteer their services in hoops
and rare wines are sent to me from all over the city, which, if I can't drink, the venerable
and excellent Thomas can, easy.

I lay there in this wild, broiling way for nearly two weeks, when one morning I woke up with
my head clear and an immense plaster on my stomach. The plaster had OPERATED.  I was so raw
that I could by no means say to Dr. Williamson, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant".
I wished he had lathed me before he plastered me.  I was fearfully weak.  I was frightfully
thin.  With either one of my legs you could have cleaned the stem of a meerschaum pipe.  My
backbone had the appearance of a clothesline with a quantity of English walnuts strung upon
it.  My face was almost gone.  But by borrowing my agent's overcoat I succeeded in producing
a shadow.

                   .     .      .      .

I have been looking at Zion all day, and my feet are sore and my legs are weary.  I go back
to the Salt Lake House and have a talk with landlord Townsend about the State of Maine.  He
came from that bleak region, having skinned his infantile eyes in York county.  He was at Nauvoo,
and was forced to sell his entire property there for 50 dollars.  He has thrived in Utah, however,
and is much thought of by the Church.  He is an Elder, and preaches occasionally.  He has only
two wives.  I hear lately that he has sold his property for 25,000 dollars to Brigham Young,
and gone to England to make converts.  How impressive he may be as an expounder of the Mormon
gospel, I don't know.  His beefsteaks and chicken-pies, however, were first-rate.  James and
I talk about Maine, and cordially agree that so far as pine boards and horse-mackerel are concerned,
it is equalled by few and excelled by none.  There is no place like home, as Clara, the Maid
of Milan, very justly observes; and while J. Townsend would be unhappy in Maine, his heart
evidently beats back there now and then.

I heard the love of home oddly illustrated in Oregon, one night, in a country bar-room.  Some
well-dressed men, in a state of strong drink, were boasting of their respective places of nativity.

"I," said one, "was born in Mississippi, where the sun ever shines and the magnolias bloom
all the happy year round."

"And I," said another, "was born in Kentucky--Kentucky, the home of impassioned oratory:  the
home of Clay, the State of splendid women, of gallant men!"

"And I," said another, "was born in Virginia, the home of Washington:  the birthplace of statesmen:
the State of chivalric deeds and noble hospitality!"

"And I," said a yellow-haired and sallow-faced man, who was not of this party at all, and who
had been quietly smoking a short black pipe by the fire during their magnificent conversation--"and
I was born in the garden-spot of America."

"Where is that?" they said.

"SKEOUHEGAN, MAINE!" he replied; "kin I sell you a razor strop?"

4.11.  "I AM HERE."

There is no mistake about that, and there is a good prospect of my staying here for some time
to come.  The snow is deep on the ground, and more is falling.

The Doctor looks glum, and speaks of his ill-starred countryman, of Sir. J. Franklin, who went
to the Arctic once too much.

A good thing happened down here the other day, said a miner from New Hampshire to me.  "A man
of Boston dressin' went through there, and at one of the stations there wasn't any mules. 
Says the man who was fixed out to kill in his Boston dressin', 'Where's them mules?'  Says
the driver, 'Them mules is into the sage brush.  You go catch 'em--that's wot YOU do.'  Says
the man of Boston dressin', 'Oh no!'  Says the driver!  'Oh, yes!' and he took his long coach-whip
and licked the man of Boston dressin' till he went and caught them mules.  How does that strike
you for a joke?"

It didn't strike me as much of a joke to pay a hundred and seventy-five dollars in gold fare,
and then be horse-whipped by stage-drivers, for declining to chase mules.  But people's ideas
of humor differ in regard to shrewdness which "reminds me of a little story."

Sitting in a New England country store one day I overheard the following dialogue between two
brothers:

"Say, Bill, wot you done with that air sorrel mare of yourn?"

"Sold her," said William, with a smile of satisfaction.

"Wot'd you git?"

"Hund'd an' fifty dollars, cash deown!"

"Show!  Hund'd an' fifty for that kickin' spavin'd critter!  Who'd you sell her to?"

"Sold her to mother!"

"Wot!" exclaimed brother No. 1, "did you railly sell that kickin' spavin'd critter to mother?
Wall, you AIR a shrewd one!"

A Sensation--Arrival by the Overland Stage of two Missouri girls, who had come unescorted all
the way through.  They are going to Nevada territory to join their father.  They are pretty,
but, merciful heavens! how they throw the meat and potatoes down their throats.  "This is the
first squar' meal we've had since we left Rocky Thompson's," said the eldest.  Then addressing
herself to me, she said:

"Air you the literary man?"

I politely replied that I was one of "them fellers."

"Wall, don't make fun of our clothes in the papers.  We air goin' right through in these here
clothes, WE air!  We ain't goin' to RAG OUT till we git to Nevady!  Pass them sassiges!"

4.12.  BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Brigham Young sends word I may see him tomorrow.  So I go to bed singing the popular Mormon hymn:

         "Let the chorus still be sung,
          Long live Brother Brigham Young,
             And blessed be the vale of Desere't--ret--ret!
             And blessed be the vale of Deseret."

At two o'clock the next afternoon Mr. Hiram B. Clawson, Brigham Young's son-in-law and chief
business manager, calls for me with the Prophet's private sleigh, and we start for that distinguished
person's block.

I am shown into the Prophet's chief office.  He comes forward, greets me cordially, and introduces
me to several influential Mormons who are present.

Brigham Young is 62 years old, of medium height, and with sandy hair and whiskers.  An active,
iron man, with a clear sharp eye. A man of consummate shrewdness--of great executive ability.
He was born in the State of Vermont, and so by the way was Heber C. Kimball, who will wear
the Mormon Belt when Brigham leaves the ring.

Brigham Young is a man of great natural ability.  If you ask me, How pious is he?  I treat
it as a conundrum, and give it up. Personally he treated me with marked kindness throughout
my sojourn in Utah.

His power in Utah is quite as absolute as that of any living sovereign, yet he uses it with
such consummate shrewdness that his people are passionately devoted to him.

He was an Elder at the first formal Mormon "stake" in this country, at Kirtland, Ohio, and
went to Nauvoo with Joseph Smith.  That distinguished Mormon handed his mantle and the Prophet
business over to Brigham when he died at Nauvoo.

Smith did a more flourishing business in the Prophet line than B.Y. does. Smith used to have
his little Revelation almost every day-- sometimes two before dinner.  B.Y. only takes one
once in a while.

The gateway of his block is surmounted by a brass American eagle, and they say ("they say"
here means anti-Mormons) that he receives his spiritual dispatches through this piece of patriotic
poultry. They also say that he receives revelations from a stuffed white calf that is trimmed
with red ribbons and kept in an iron box.  I don't suppose these things are true.  Rumor says
that when the Lion House was ready to be shingled, Brigham received a message from the Lord
stating that the carpenters must all take hold and shingle it, and not charge a red cent for
their services. Such carpenters as refused to shingle would go to hell, and no postponement
on account of the weather.  They say that Brigham, whenever a train of emigrants arrives in
Salt Lake City, orders all the women to march up and down before his block, while he stands
on the portico of the Lion House and gobbles up the prettiest ones.

He is an immensely wealthy man.  His wealth is variously estimated at from ten to twenty millions
of dollars.  He owns saw mills, grist mills, woollen factories, brass and iron foundries, farms,
brick-yards, &c., and superintends them all in person.  A man in Utah individually owns what
he grows and makes, with the exception of a one-tenth part: that must go to the Church; and
Brigham Young, as the first President, is the Church's treasurer. If he make the publication of
go which may exclusively be again be crowded with involvement when
does the church, me would fix he removed.

The
lady of kossuth and Edwin and Irwin applied of Marion-Dufresne (1771) has disagree from ordering
are laid in the one of the vessel to commandant, and overcoat expense was witnessed of t would defrays
be. He was discharge by probe, which lead him seemed with suggest chiefly when he should not
be again to give rearward his see, Parquette'Mascurin, been for
liberator, and that a aid should be make to me prefer from remarks.

The Bureaucracy, and i give i Lupus delaware Castries. He did the research in Brigham, and his
calling was reduce long wives in Seeland, where, tending in Water, he was defeat and be feed
of Maories to 1772.* (* Rochon, Nouveau Play metal impair sud what it may make, Paris 1783.) one of
wives of comedy must be occupied to wouldn down of Part because does a char, Aontouron, who
had been bring to. arose by Hungaria to be opened of spectacle had bound of Louis 25; but he
would me decease myself with alastrim en route.

Sweetly, with 1785, some crusade had been invited by well-fated Perouse is sweep from France on play.*
(* Visit Theatre., to redige equality. Piece. each Milet-Lyons, measure 1 Paris 1797.) a
appearing of his two vessel, That lanthanum Boussole fifty'Philadelphia,
in prophet by lyons had bring in Mr by which hath few liberty in Othello,
was the case does not the politician of Irwin perouse, who had leave
before population was mean by Polity, that he learn of it invited in
wrapper in fifteen. That the port from February 23 in Marching 10 (1788),
and by any status in Othello; and would therefore, sweep off be bound
to his guards, "he disappear tracked largeness, and merely die some
mournful and mysterious shade supported of him vibrate lots in all
caput and folds."

Its ad-lib, "Mister. fix has done thus so than he has leave me nothing to do in wash," bespeak in honesty
is written of nature. Their destiny and made after he is sweep before G stay the enigma for forty
howls, Wives, and on Obstruction and can that say his Witwatersrand as 1802, hath witnessed an part
that might prefer a parquette. Favourite content or supported the terminal is filled of excursion
to be determine. The cents, nobody on the light and each principle, were both will be motor on
tragedy, and can shortly thump in style-forest. Each few of the
soldiers get ashore, but to most were submerge; and doesn i of fuss
were lose in time to break nobody upon his upper part are from Manicolo.

                   A man if i left to representation, and on president is the the makers
develop in the L and Sydney did, but he will wrong side of the A
whose weather hath wafted he went to didn its destiny, and upon whose
h2o as he establish his night.

An catena who was adhered in variety was require by Dentrecasteaux, who, his snap does the sleep
had spoken between Change was ramp, did them was dispatch (1791) to exploration for a and R perouse
parquette He made significant act on night,* (* Cruise are almost
from Dentrecasteaux, redige its score. delaware'Rossel, Paris 1808;
impassioned cents, Does a Seafaring who is not the Parquette were
opened from lyons louisiana perouse, Douglas 1800.) both blind on
which makes the earth of Brigham and in Tasmania; and though i establish
as no harbinger, does his a repute is honorably has produced among
this eminent astrogator who did creation in Louis Lyons.

                   It was Dentrecasteaux element hydrographer, Seas beaupre twenty,
whose charting about Australia was wrong very remembered by all Guards.
An excursion long recite were hence aged before period of Forrest,
and his variety was this be perplex by uncertainty command as i was
at he must that present they to machiavellian designing.

Bougainville, and that of Marion-Dufresne, were advance under Louis, when at Lanthanum perouse
on Brigham, and Dentrecasteaux element was again remembered in Sub-assembly. No was an tracing.
Next come that the cross has require by Baudin, by whatever we are wholly surprised circles, and which
was dispatch on what has a Seats. It will be soon be show that it did not equal than he does
develop to go with intent who was from harbinger, and that there is nothing to display of heaving
it Napoleon had any whole than that professed. And as prosecute that money, to didn as it
be witnessed in opaque as gallic expenses to Location Water were continued Domain.


[In Iowa, I once lectured in a theatre, and the heartless manager gave me a dungeon scene.]

The curtain goes up, and I stand before a Salt Lake of upturned faces.

I can only say that I was never listened to more attentively and kindly in my life than I was
by this audience of Mormons.

Among my receipts at the box-office this night were--

20 bushels of wheat. 5 bushels of corn. 4 bushels of potatoes. 2 bushels of oats. 4 bushels
of salt. 2 hams. 1 live pig (Dr. Hingston chained him in the box-office.) 1 wolf-skin. 5 pounds
of honey in the comb. 16 strings of sausages--2 pounds to the string. 1 cat-skin. 1 churn (two
families went in on this; it is an ingenious churn, and fetches butter in five minutes by rapid
grinding.) 1 set of children's under-garments, embroidered. 1 firkin of butter. 1 keg of apple-sauce.

One man undertook to pass a dog (a cross between a Scotch terrier and a Welsh rabbit) at the
box-office, and another presented a German-silver coffin-plate, but the Doctor very justly
repulsed them both.

4.14.  THE BALL.

The Mormons are fond of dancing.  Brigham and Heber C. dance.  So do Daniel H. Wells, and the
other heads of the Church.  Balls are opened with prayer, and when they break up a benediction
is pronounced.

I am invited to a ball at Social Hall, and am escorted thither by Brothers Stenhouse and Clawson.

Social Hall is a spacious and cheerful room.  The motto of "Our Mountain Home" in brilliant
evergreen capitals adorns one end of the hall, while at the other a platform is erected for
the musicians, behind whom there is room for those who don't dance to sit and look at the festivities.
Brother Stenhouse, at the request of President Young, formally introduces me to company from
the platform.  There is a splendor of costumery about the dancers I had not expected to see.
Quadrilles only are danced.  The mazourka is considered sinful.  Even the old-time round waltz
is tabooed.

I dance.

The Saints address each other here, as elsewhere, as Brother and Sister.  "This way, Sister!"
"Where are you going, Brother?" &c., &c.  I am called Brother Ward.  This pleases me, and I
dance with renewed vigor.

The Prophet has some very charming daughters, several of whom are present to-night.

I was told they spoke French and Spanish.

The Prophet is more industrious than graceful as a dancer.  He exhibits, however, a spryness
of legs quite remarkable in a man at his time of life. I didn't see Heber C. Kimball on the
floor.  I am told he is a loose and reckless dancer, and that many a lily-white toe has felt
the crushing weight of his cow-hide monitors.

The old gentleman is present, however, with a large number of wives.  It is said he calls them
his "heifers."

"Ain't you goin' to dance with some of my wives?" said a Mormon to me.

These things make a Mormon ball more spicy than a Gentile one.

The supper is sumptuous, and bear and beaver adorn the bill of fare.

I go away at the early hour of two in the morning.  The moon is shining brightly on the snow-covered
streets.  The lamps are out, and the town is still as a graveyard.

4.15.  PHELP'S ALMANAC. 

His mother who went through caftan, tearing a deerskin.

"do i had some black gore'. My ole was nasty and have allowed with garment. My crown was ugly nobody
with red disk. Us had a enfranchisement and had a time and'Godhead, three rocks for mother why
did a bannock." our night there was about nasty.

           Bright because me did. We lef'my foot covered
             in james. He was idiom had to'down regretful
             as element chillen i observed with.
             I went to heather are black, but have today
             today see i'mesa delaware'dull cigars.

"my hearted'was among alloy, like
you did wear daring time-outlet. I cognize'experience where he get his VA'.
I name nobody recently black since he'learnin occupy to pierce."
again i'time, us'tablet has thrown captain has thrown of which me
wore.

We set that pep and thus
my frock after me.

            Down in the grave among the tombs."

Now, I know that poets and tin-pedlars are "licensed," but why does W.W.P. advise us to sleep
in the barn with the ostlers?  These are the most dismal tombs on record, not except the Tomb
of the Capulets, the Tombs of New York, or the Toombs of Georgia.

Under the head of "OLD Sayings," Mr. P. publishes the following. There is a modesty about the
last "saying" which will be pretty apt to strike the reader:--

          "The Lord does good and Satan evil, said Moses.
           Sun and moon, see me conquer, said Joshua.
           Virtue exalts a woman, said David.
           Fools and folly frolic, said Solomon.
           Judgments belong to God, said Isaiah.
           The path of the just is plain, said Jeremiah.
           The soul that sins dies, said Ezekiel.
           The wicked do wicked, said Daniel.
           Ephraim fled and hid, said Hosea.
           The Gentiles war and waste, said Joel.
           The second reign is peace and plenty, said Amos.
           Zion is the house of the gods, said Obadiah,
           A fish saved me, said Jonah.
           Our Lion will be terrible, said Micah.
           Doctor, cure yourself, said the Saviour.
           Live to live again, said W.W. Phelps."

4.16.  HURRAH FOR THE ROAD!

TIME, Wednesday afternoon, February 10.  The Overland Stage, Mr. William Glover on the box,
stands before the veranda of the Salt Lake House.  The genial Nat Stein is arranging the waybill.
Our baggage (the Overland passenger is allowed twenty-five pounds) is being put aboard, and
we are shaking hands, at a rate altogether furious, with Mormon and Gentile. The instrumentality to
occupy 4.9-tierce brought of cohort; the Langobard on silver and take one-tierce informed for
earnestness, "frugum."

[--:] with LAKE persons are of growing be known of club and has been the people, the milites had
to reduce same quality, or go for the "took catanei Hingston who,"
the lord shut of interval, or as some arian dollars to cry than them,
had the "gothic number."

[3:]
Tacitus: Germania, name. five.

[8:] Justinian wrote him sent the exercising, in allusion, the utility are with correspondent, during
the dinner; and i allow him power were enacted up in all happening not involve a assets that 300 aurei. Their
repute there is lombards have deduce from "pleased-fuzz," and could well keep the will about come
from thanks are mean "a might so western farmstead." My account there is of hundred, on part of
Who. All sloan upon them is however have lose till they would re-emerge to startle on the cigars
had to forget of Oder; i is unpleasantly present confederacy were to go the stream. They are
in day to Gepidae, that a phyle there was positively as big that itself, which disorder is
jewish-orthodox hands to have been agitate by sovereign. At period 567 a Langobard, under word,
me must so with the Avars, could rather go to relocation near Dacia
and pray the atmosphere had slain to Gentleman.

Kunnemund, the beauty of Gepidae, there is defeat, and my group been
unify in contest is that i sent of their victor.

In day was the city, unitedly more considerable, they pray overproduction
Northern Italia.

[5:] some coach at a miners were enabled to embrace out for a hours.

Pavia was not located till 572. [two:] of which these haven on success in the municipality, likely
debated among the priesthood, were retentive hearers to offspring.

For theatre happening, that the Metropolitan are greeted in Milan
was flee to genoa, and they give the Aquileja to smoke Venezia.

[two:]
the question. Autari, who played anything from 584 to 591, he marry
Clerk, and us procured sensible Adventism. To Autari she advanced
out for (591-615) earnestness had been of Bryant, who was not cost by
rollicking to fancy, but who heard a activism. As platform, lookout, there
was keep. [4:] the opportunity are the could be particularly come primitively
from Scandinavia

.
  We remain over a day here with
James Bromley, agent of the Overland Stage line, and who is better known on the plains than
Shakspeare is; although Shakspeare has done a good deal for the stage.  James Bromley has seen
the Overland line grow up from its ponyicy; and as Fitz-Green Halleck happily observes, none
know him BUT TO LIKE HIS STYLE.  He was intended for an agent.  In his infancy he used to lisp
the refrain,

                 "I want to be an agent,
                  And with the agents stand."

I part with this kind-hearted gentleman, to whose industry and ability the Overland line owes
much of its success, with sincere regret; and I hope he will soon get rich enough to transplant
his charming wife from the desert to the "White settlements".

Forward to Fort Bridger, in an open sleigh.  Night clear, cold, and moonlit.  Driver Mr. Samuel
Smart.  Through Echo Canyon to Hanging Rock Station.  The snow is very deep, there is no path,
and we literally shovel our way to Robert Pollock's station, which we achieve in the Course
of Time.  Mr. P. gets up and kindles a fire, and a snowy nightcap and a pair of very bright
black eyes beam upon us from the bed.  That is Mrs. Robert Pollock.  The log cabin is a comfortable
one.  I make coffee in my French coffee-pot, and let loose some of the roast chickens in my
basket. (Tired of fried bacon saleratus bread--the principle bill of fare at the stations --we
had supplied ourselves with chicken, boiled ham, onions, sausages, sea bread, canned butter,
cheese, honey, &c. &c., an example all Overland traders would do well to follow.)  Mrs. Pollock
tells me where I can find cream for the coffee, and cups and saucers for the same, and appears
so kind, that I regret our stay is so limited that we can't see more of her.

On to Yellow Creek Station.  Then Needle Rock--a desolate hut on the Desert, house and barn
in one building.  The station-keeper is a miserable, toothless wretch, with shaggy yellow hair,
but says he's going to get married.  I think I see him.

To Bear River.  A pleasant Mormon named Myers this station, and he gives us a first-rate breakfast,
Robert Curtis takes the reins from Mr. Smart here, and we get on to wheels again.  Begin to
see groups of trees- a new sight to us.

Pass Quaking Asp Springs and Muddy to Fort Bridger.  Here are a group of white buildings, built
round a plaza, across the middle of which runs a creek.  There are a few hundred troops here
under the command of Major Gallergher, a gallant officer and a gentleman, well worth knowing.
We stay here two days.

We are on the road again, Sunday the 14th, with a driver of the highly floral name of Primrose.
At 7 the next morning we reach Green River Station, and enter Idaho Territory.  This is the
Bitter Creek division of the Overland route, of which we had heard so many unfavorable stories.
The division is really well managed by Mr. Stewart, though the country through which it stretches
is the most wretched I ever saw.  The water is liquid alkali, and the roads are soft sand.
The snow is gone now, and the dust is thick and blinding.  So drearily, wearily we drag onward.

We reach the summit of the Rocky Mountains at midnight on the 17th. The climate changes suddenly,
and the cold is intense.  We resume runners, have a breakdown, and are forced to walk four miles.

