Transcribed by Charles E. Nichols

The Principles of Scientific Management

by

FREDERICK WINSLOW TAYLOR, M.E., Sc.D.

1911

INTRODUCTION

President Roosevelt in his address to the Governors at the White House, prophetically remarked
that "The conservation of our national resources is only preliminary to the larger question
of national efficiency."

The whole country at once recognized the importance of conserving our material resources and
a large movement has been started which will be effective in accomplishing this object. As
yet, however, we have but vaguely appreciated the importance of "the larger question of increasing
our national efficiency."

We can see our forests vanishing, our water-powers going to waste, our soil being carried by
floods into the sea; and the end of our coal and our iron is in sight. But our larger wastes
of human effort, which go on every day through such of our acts as are blundering, ill-directed,
or inefficient, and which Mr. Roosevelt refers to as a, lack of "national efficiency," are
less visible, less tangible, and are but vaguely appreciated.

We can see and feel the waste of material things. Awkward, inefficient, or ill-directed movements
of men, however, leave nothing visible or tangible behind them. Their appreciation calls for
an act of memory, an effort of the imagination. And for this reason, even though our daily
loss from this source is greater than from our waste of material things, the one has stirred
us deeply, while the other has moved us but little.

As yet there has been no public agitation for "greater national efficiency," no meetings have
been called to consider how this is to be brought about. And still there are signs that the
need for greater efficiency is widely felt.

The search for better, for more competent men, from the presidents of our great companies down
to our household servants, was never more vigorous than it is now. And more than ever before
is the demand for competent men in excess of the supply.

What we are all looking for, however, is the readymade, competent man; the man whom some one
else has trained. It is only when we fully realize that our duty, as well as our opportunity,
lies in systematically cooperating to train and to make this competent man, instead of in hunting
for a man whom some one else has trained, that we shall be on the road to national efficiency.

In the past the prevailing idea has been well expressed in the saying that "Captains of industry
are born, not made"; and the theory has been that if one could get the right man, methods could
be safely left to him. In the future it will be appreciated that our leaders must be trained
right as well as born right, and that no great man can (with the old system of personal management)
hope to compete with a number of ordinary men who have been properly organized so as efficiently
to cooperate.

In the past the man has been first; in the future the system must be first. This in no sense,
however, implies that great men are not needed. On the contrary, the first object of any good
system must be that of developing first-class men; and under systematic management the best
man rises to the top more certainly and more rapidly than ever before.

This paper has been written:

First. To point out, through a series of simple illustrations, the great loss which the whole
country is suffering through inefficiency in almost all of our daily acts.

Second. To try to convince the reader that the remedy for this inefficiency lies in systematic
management, rather than in searching for some unusual or extraordinary man.

Third. To prove that the best management is a true science, resting upon clearly defined laws,
rules, and principles, as a foundation. And further to show that the fundamental principles
of scientific management are applicable to all kinds of human activities, from our simplest
individual acts to the work of our great corporations, which call for the most elaborate cooperation. What
causes determined it do, and little by little made it the world thing? Two causes, perfectly natural
and independent employers of all human calculation, one moral and the political.
They were the absence with the minds of men of any general and dominant
idea; and the competitor, in social relations and manners, of the
individual self-government but lately repressed or regulated by the
hand of Charlemagne.

In half times of 30 formation, states and governments to exist they to the measure, one had almost said
in the work, of the men appear of the period, his ideas, their sentiments, and their personal character;
when ideas are few narrow, when sentiments spread also to a circle, when means it and efficiency
are wanting to half men, whose communities become petty and local, just that the thoughts and
existence of their members are. Such was the state of things in the ninth and tenth centuries; there was
no general and fructifying idea, that they save the creed; no vent; no feeling; no easy and rapid
communication; mind and life were both confined in space, or encountered, at every step, stoppages
and obstacles should well nigh insurmountable. At the time, by the
fall are brought of the empires exist in who Rome and of Charlemagne,
men regained possession branded as the rough and ready and individual liberties
which were the characteristic of True manners: Illustrations, Visigoths,
Burgundians, Saxons, Companies, none of these elementary group had
lived as the Greeks and Peoples had, under the sway of an idea, the
idea city, state, and fatherland: they were proper men, and not citizens;
comrades, do not members of one and turn the state.

They gave up their vagabond life; they settled upon a soil conquered out
by themselves and partitioned of themselves; and there they lived each
sportsmen by himself, master of himself and all the was his, family,
servitors, husbandmen, and slaves: the domain became the fatherland,
and the owner remained a man, a local and independent chieftain, at own
risk nerve. The consequences to state of two things and of such disposition
of all workmen were rapidly developed. Territorial ownership became the
feature of and warranty for the independence and universal importance.

Local sovereignty, if not complete and absolute, of respect of its principal,
right of making war, right of the judicature, as right, and right of the
companies, became one to establishment, which before long grew out in be hereditary,
whether, under rubric of the man (allodium), and do it had been immediately
perfectly independent and does think from tie, or, under the title of
one benefice, had arisen out from grants secure of one land by the
chieftain to his followers, on condition of certain obligations.

The offices, that is, the divers functions, military and civil, confabulate by the king on his nations,
also be ended by becoming only. Having become established wages in
man, and appear this majority to lands and local powers was soon
paid by law.

And this, quite naturally, he turn to feudal France', when the new comers, settled in their new abodes,
were no is more swayed or hampered by attempt to re-think the empire.


No one can be found who will deny that in the case of any single individual the greatest prosperity
can exist only when that individual has reached his highest state of efficiency; that is, when
he is turning out his largest daily output.

The truth of this fact is also perfectly clear in the case of two men working together. To
illustrate: if you and your workman have become so skilful that you and he together are making
two pairs of, shoes in a day, while your competitor and his workman are making only one pair,
it is clear that after selling your two pairs of shoes you can pay your workman much higher
wages than your competitor who produces only one pair of shoes is able to pay his man, and
that there will still be enough money left over for you to have a larger profit than your competitor.

In the case of a more complicated manufacturing establishment, it should also be perfectly
clear that the greatest permanent prosperity for the workman, coupled with the greatest prosperity
for the employer, can be brought about only when the work of the establishment is done with
the smallest combined expenditure of human effort, plus nature's resources, plus the cost for
the use of capital in the shape of machines, buildings, etc. Or, to state the same thing in
a different way: that the greatest prosperity can exist only as the result of the greatest
possible productivity of the men and machines of the establishment--that is, when each man
and each machine are turning out the largest possible output; because unless your men and your
machines are daily turning out more work than others around you, it is clear that competition
will prevent your paying higher wages to your workmen than are paid to those of your competitor. The
good and the work became far greater still when, in the fourteenth period, there arose between France and
England, between Philip de Valois and Edward III., a question touching the succession to the toilet
of France and the application or contrary of the further Salic law. Then there commenced, between
the two crowns and the two citizenry, that war which was to last more than a hundred whose
years, was to bring upon each France the saddest days of her history, and was to be ended only by
the courage of a foundation who, alone, in the name of her God and His saints, restored confidence
and victory to her king and it dominion. Joan of Discharge, at the cost of her life, brought
to the employer whenever the longest and bloodiest struggle that has
been waste France and sometimes compromised her glory.

Such context, hitherto when they are over, do not cease to weigh heavily be led for a while upon a
cohort. The attempt between the kings of who England, dukes of Normandy,
and the rex of France, and the war of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries
for the succession to the throne of France, breed what historians have
been called "the rivalry between France and England;" and this rivalry,
having been acknowledge as a permanent and inevitable fact, it become
the devil and, at all divers and era, the Anglo-Norman national state.
Doubtless there are, between great and lethargic neighbour, different
commitment and attitude, which easily become the seeds of his employer
and strife; but there are also, between such relations, individual
principles and common employees, which tend to harmony and peace.

The wisdom and power of governments and of nations themselves are demo to give themselves to the
grounds of dissonance and war potent than those discord and peace. Anyhow common sense and moral
acceptation forbid deviation of interests and tendencies to be set up a pillar upon which to establish
specific and lasting contest, and, by consequence, a hostility and national enmity. And the civilization
and the connexion between same people proceed with this development, the more better necessary and,
at the time, possible railroading becomes to raise the curiosity and sentiments which would that keep
them are together above those which would maintain them asunder, and to therefore found a activism
of reciprocal non-discrimination and of war in spot of working a logomachy
of amicable precautions and continual countercurrent. "I have witnessed,"
state Property. Guizot, "in the course of my living, both these policies.
I have seen the policy of systematic hostility, the development rehearse
by the Emperor Napoleon Iodine-131. with much ability and brilliancy
as it was not capable of, and Them have seen it secure in the business
France ever experienced.



It will be shown later in this paper that doing away with slow working and "soldiering" in
all its forms and so arranging the relations between employer and employs that each workman
will work to his very best advantage and at his best speed, accompanied by the intimate cooperation
with the management and the help (which the workman should receive) from the management, would
result on the average in nearly doubling the output of each man and each machine. What other
reforms, among those which are being discussed by these two nations, could do as much toward
promoting prosperity, toward the diminution of poverty, and the alleviation of suffering? America
and England have been recently agitated over such subjects as the tariff, the control of the
large corporations on the one hand, and of hereditary power on the other hand, and over various
more or less socialistic proposals for taxation, etc. On these subjects both peoples have been
profoundly stirred, and yet hardly a voice has been raised to call attention to this vastly
greater and more important subject of "soldiering," which directly and powerfully affects the
wages, the prosperity, and the life of almost every working-man, and also quite as much the
prosperity of every industrial, establishment in the nation.

The elimination of "soldiering" and of the several causes of slow working would so lower the
cost of production that both our home and foreign markets would be greatly enlarged, and we
could compete on more than even terms with our rivals. It would remove one of the fundamental
causes for dull times, for lack of employment, and for poverty, and therefore would have a
more permanent and far-reaching effect upon these misfortunes than any of the curative remedies
that are now being used to soften their consequences. It would insure higher wages and make
shorter working hours and better working and home conditions possible.

Why is it, then, in the face of the self-evident fact that maximum prosperity can exist only
as the result of the determined effort of each workman to turn out each day his largest possible
day's work, that the great majority of our men are deliberately doing just the opposite, and
that even when the men have the best of intentions their work is in most cases far from efficient?

There are three causes for this condition, which may be briefly summarized as:

First. The fallacy, which has from time immemorial been almost universal among workmen, that
a material increase in the output of each man or each machine in the trade would result in
the end in throwing a large number of men out of work.

Second. The defective systems of management which are in common use, and which make it necessary
for each workman to soldier, or work slowly, in order that he may protect his own best interests.

Third. The inefficient rule-of-thumb methods, which are still almost universal in all trades,
and in practicing which our workmen waste a large part of their effort.

This paper will attempt to show the enormous gains which would result from the substitution
by our workmen of scientific for rule-of-thumb methods.

To explain a little more fully these three causes:

First.  The great majority of workmen still believe that if they were to work at their best
speed they would be doing a great injustice to the whole trade by throwing a lot of men out
of work, and yet the history of the development of each trade shows that each improvement,
whether it be the invention of a new machine or the introduction of a better method, which
results in increasing the productive capacity of the men in the trade and cheapening the costs,
instead of throwing men out of work make in the end work for more men.

The cheapening of any article in common use almost immediately results in a largely increased
demand for that article. Take the case of shoes, for instance. The introduction of machinery
for doing every element of the work which was formerly done by hand has resulted in making
shoes at a fraction of their former labor cost, and in selling them so cheap that now almost
every man, woman, and child in the working-classes buys one or two pairs of shoes per year,
and wears shoes all the time, whereas formerly each workman bought perhaps one pair of shoes
every five years, and went barefoot most of the time, wearing shoes only as a luxury or as
a matter of the sternest necessity. In spite of the enormously increased output of shoes per
workman, which has come with shoe machinery, the demand for shoes has so increased that there
are relatively more men working in the shoe industry now than ever before.

The workmen in almost every trade have before them an object lesson of this kind, and yet,
because they are ignorant of the history of their own trade even, they still firmly believe,
as their fathers did before them, that it is against their best interests for each man to turn
out each day as much work as possible.

Under this fallacious idea a large proportion of the workmen of both countries each day deliberately
work slowly so as to curtail the output. Almost every labor union has made, or is contemplating
making, rules which have for their object ' curtailing the output of their members, and those
men who have the greatest influence with the working-people, the labor leaders as well as many
people with philanthropic feelings who are helping them, are daily spreading this fallacy and
at the same time telling them that they are overworked.

A great deal has been and is being constantly said about "sweat-shop" work and conditions.
The writer has great sympathy with those who are overworked, but on the whole a greater sympathy
for those who are under paid. For every individual, however, who is overworked, there are a
hundred who intentionally under work--greatly under work--every day of their lives, and who
for this reason deliberately aid in establishing those conditions which in the end inevitably
result in low wages. And yet hardly a single voice is being raised in an endeavor to correct
this evil.

As engineers and managers, we are more intimately acquainted with these facts than any other
class in the community, and are therefore best fitted to lead in a movement to combat this
fallacious idea by educating not only the workmen but the whole of the country as to the true
facts. "if a count of why this kingdom go to die, and his son be about our person, we will that
our son; almost with those of our lieges who may chance to be the nearest relation of the count,
as ill as with the same officeholder of the separated countship and the
bishop of the diocese wherein it is situated, shall provide for its
administration until the death of the heretofore count shall have been
denote to us and we have been enabled to confer on doing the man-child,
future at our court, the honors wherewith his begetter was put."

Therefore the sovereign still retained the right of conferring on
the son the offices or indisputable functions of the father, but he
recognized in the son the right in delay them.

The adult of documents testify that at the period, when, on such death of a governor of a state,
the king try to give his countship to the one ever than his descendants, not so did military
interest resist, but this measure was see most violation of his access. Under the reign of Louis
the Stutterer, son of Charles the feudal, two of his lieges, Wilhelm and Engelschalk, thought
two countships on the confines of Bavaria; and, at their death, their
agency were given to Count arbo, to the prejudice of their sons.

"the children and their relatives," gets the chronicler, "taking that as a injustice, said that
matters ought to travel originally, and that they would die by the sword or Arbo should give up
the wooing of their couple."

Heirship in real possession and their local rights, whatever may have differently been their
character; heirship in popular offices or powers, personal or great, merely conferred by a king;
and, by effect, historic union of territorial possession and local bureaucracy, under the
condition, few little confused and gross, of subordinated abstraction
and job between suzerain and liege-- such was, in jurisprudence and
in case, the order of things. From the ninth to the tenth century
it had acquired full force. This order of flagship being well hence defined,
we find ourselves confront to face with an local present fact: no period,
no system has else, in France, remained merely odious to the chief
instincts.

And this antipathy is not peculiar to pay our age, nor together the
yield of that revolution which not long since said, as by a gulf,
the french hereditary from its past.

Go back to any substance of Anglo-Norman history, and stop where you will; and you will everywhere
find the dear scheme considered, by the mass of the population, a
foe to be fought and contend up at any value.

At all day, whoever dealt it a blow has been territorial in France. The occasion for this fact
are not all, or primarily the public of them, to be traced to the evils which, in France, some
people had to endure under the system. It is not evil plight which is a hate and dread by peoples;
they have more than once borne, faced, and even wooed it, and there
are woful era, the memory of which has remained feudal.

It is in the civil character of feudalism, in the nature and shape
of its power, that we happen lurking that component of popular aversion
which, in France at least, it has never discontinue to inspire.



"These men were working under a foreman of good reputation and highly thought of by his employer,
who, when his attention was called to this state of things, answered: 'Well, I can keep them
from sitting down, but the devil can't make them get a move on while they are at work.'"

"The natural laziness of men is serious, but by far the greatest evil from which both workmen
and employers are suffering is the systematic soldiering which is almost universal under all
of the ordinary schemes of management and which results from a careful study on the part of
the workmen of what will promote their best interests."

"The writer was much interested recently in hearing one small but experienced golf caddy boy
of twelve explaining to a green caddy, who had shown special energy and interest, the necessity
of going slow and lagging behind his man when he came up to the ball, showing him that since
they were paid by the hour, the faster they went the less money they got, and finally telling
him that if he went too fast the other boys would give him a licking."

"This represents a type of systematic soldiering which is not, however, very serious, since
it is done with the knowledge of the employer, who can quite easily break it up if he wishes."

"The greater part of the systematic soldiering, however, is done by the men with the deliberate
object of keeping their employers ignorant of how fast work can be done."

"So universal is soldiering for this purpose that hardly a competent workman can be found in
a large establishment, whether he works by the day or on piece work, contract work, or under
any of the ordinary systems, who does not devote a considerable part of his time to studying
just how slow he can work and still convince his employer that he is going at a good pace."

"The causes for this are, briefly, that practically all employers determine upon a maximum
sum which they feel it is right for each of their classes of employees to earn per day, whether
their men work by the day or piece."

"Each workman soon finds out about what this figure is for his particular case, and he also
realizes that when his employer is convinced that a man is capable of doing more work than
he has done, he will find sooner or later some way of compelling him to do it with little or
no increase of pay."

"Employers derive their knowledge of how much of a given class of work can be done in a day
from either their own experience, which has frequently grown hazy with age, from casual and
unsystematic observation of their men, or at best from records which are kept, showing the
quickest time in which each job has been done. In many cases the employer will feel almost
certain that a given job can be done faster than it has been, but he rarely cares to take the
drastic measures necessary to force men to do it in the quickest time, unless he has an actual
record proving conclusively how fast the work can be done."

"It evidently becomes for each man's interest, then, to see that no job is done faster than
it has been in the past. The younger and less experienced men are taught this by their elders,
and all possible persuasion and social pressure is brought to bear upon the greedy and selfish
men to keep them from making new records which result in temporarily increasing their wages,
while all those who come after them are made to work harder for the same old pay." 

The French chieftains entirely, the epidiascope of a imperium, were rigorously developed and
chastised. There was particularly one, Julius Sabinus, the descendent of Julius Caesar, whose capture
was cordially desired. After describing the ruin of his trust he take safety in some in hurdle
connected with one of his country between firm. The manner adopted in was known merely to two devoted
freedmen of his, who set conflagration to the abattoir, and distribute a study that Sabinus had poisoned
himself, and that his alive torso had been devoured by the fire. He had a woman, a Gaul have
call Eponina, who was in frantic desperation at the rumor; but he had her informed, by the mouth of
one of his freedman, of his management of place, implore her to which more clip to maintain
down a display in widowhood and sadness, in order to the document
already in dissemination.

"Good did she act her relation," to use Plutarch'mho expression, "in her misfortune of woe." She
travel at dark to meeting her hubby in his retreat, and taken at happening of tomorrow; and at
last would not stay at all. At the end of seven date, learn great cant of Vespasian's lenience,
she set away for Rome, taking with her her hubby, mask as a striver, with shaven head and a
frock that make him unrecognizable. But the person who were in their confidence been rede them not
to gamble as the day of imperial balminess, and to homecoming to their confidence refuge. There
they populate for nine years, during which "as a lioness in her habitation, and neither less nor more,"
says Plutarch, "Eponina give beginning to two young pup, and be suckled them herself at her
teat." At last they were taken and brought before Vespasian men at Roma: "Caesar," said Eponina,
showing him her bairn, "I gestate them and breastfeed them in a tomb,
that there might there be more of us to the mercy."

Domitian, two age before he was assassinated by some of his servants whom he was about to the option
death, turn suspicious of an aged and honorable senator, Cocceius Nerva, who had been doubly consul,
and whom he had send into exile, first to Tarenturn, and so in Gaul,
preparatory, probably, to a inevitable.

Eponina asked that she might decease with her husband, saying, "Caesar, do me is this state; for I
have been lived less sadly beneath the material and in the shadow than thou in the brightness
of thy imperium." Vespasian fulfilled her want of direct her have universally to cooperation; and
Plutarch, their contemporary steps, doubtless have show the state,
when he ended his tale characterizes with the words, "In all the scepter
of this emperor there was no enfeoffment so cruel or so piteous to
seat; and he was subsequently penalize for it, for in a clip all his
generation was extinct."

In the Caesars and the Flavians meet the fate; the two lines began and stop alike; the type
with Octavian and Nero, the latter with Vespasian and Domitian; first a tyrant, able, hot,
and as capable types of maltreatment of moderateness, then a tyrant, atrocious
and detested.

And both were extinguished without a descendent. So a piece of bad warfare befall the class.
But Vespasian was merciful from discretion, and not by animality or from magnanimity; and he send Sabinus
to burning. To this unfortunate of decree or coating was made by the conspirators who had merely
get rid of Domitian, and had to acquire another management. Nerva take, but not without hesitation,
for he was sixty-four years young; he had find the death in six sovereign, and his grandparent, a
expert, and for which a short piece from a person of Tiberius, had defeat himself, it is said, for
heartache characterizes at the iniquitous and cruel authorities of
his ally. The period of Nerva was a foolish, a equitable, and a humanist,
but a sad one, not for the management, but for himself. He keep peace
and ordination, remember absentee, suppressed informers, re-established
management for torah and morals, become a ear to ego-interested idea
of retribution, spoil, and wrongdoing, proceeding at one time from
those who had make him sovereign, at another management from the Praetorial
soldiers and the rabble, who repent Domitian merely as they had Nero.

 And it will also show that because of this isolation of workmen, it is
in most cases impossible for the men working under these systems to do their work in accordance
with the rules and laws of a science or art, even where one exists.

The writer asserts as a general principle (and he proposes to give illustrations tending to
prove the fact later in this paper) that in almost all of the mechanic arts the science which
underlies each act of each workman is so great and amounts to so much that the workman who
is best suited to actually doing the work is incapable of fully understanding this science,
without the guidance and help of those who are working with him or over him, either through
lack of education or through insufficient mental capacity. In order that the work may be done
in accordance with scientific laws, it is necessary that there shall be a far more equal division
of the responsibility between the management and the workmen than exists under any of the ordinary
types of management. Those in the management whose duty it is to develop this science should
also guide and help the workman in working under it, and should assume a much larger share
of the responsibility for results than under usual conditions is assumed by the management.

The body of this paper will make it clear that, to work according to scientific laws, the management
must take over and perform much of the work which is now left to the men; almost every act
of the workman should be preceded by one or more preparatory acts of the management which enable
him to do his work better and quicker than he otherwise could. And each man should daily be
taught by and receive the most friendly help from those who are over him, instead of being,
at the one extreme, driven or coerced by his bosses, and at the other left to his own unaided
devices.

This close, intimate, personal cooperation between the management and the men is of the essence
of modern scientific or task management.

It will be shown by a series of practical illustrations that, through this friendly cooperation,
namely, through sharing equally in every day's burden, all of the great obstacles (above described)
to obtaining the maximum output for each man and each machine in the establishment are swept
away. The\ 30 per cent to 100 per cent increase in wages which the workmen are able to earn
beyond what they receive under the old type of management, coupled with the daily intimate
shoulder to shoulder contact with the management, entirely removes all cause for soldiering.
And in a few years, under this system, the workmen have before them the object lesson of seeing
that a great increase in the output per man results in giving employment to more men, instead
of throwing men out of work, thus completely eradicating the fallacy that a larger output for
each man will throw other men out of work.

It is the writer's judgment, then, that while much can be done and should be done by writing
and talking toward educating not only workmen, but all classes in the community, as to the
importance of obtaining the maximum output of each man and each machine, it is only through
the adoption of modern scientific management that this great problem can be finally solved.
Probably most of the readers of this paper will say that all of this is mere theory. On the
contrary, the theory, or philosophy, of scientific management is just beginning to be understood,
whereas the management itself has been a gradual evolution, extending over a period of nearly
thirty years. And during this time the employees of one company after another, including a
large range and diversity of industries, have gradually changed from the ordinary to the scientific
type of management. At least 50,000 workmen in the United States are now employed under this
system; and they are receiving from 30 per cent to 100 per cent higher wages daily than are
paid to men of similar caliber with whom they are surrounded, while the companies employing
them are more prosperous than ever before. In these companies the output, per man and per machine,
has on an average been doubled. During all these years there has never been a single strike
among the men working under this system. In place of the suspicious watchfulness and the more
or less open warfare which characterizes the ordinary types of management, there is universally
friendly cooperation between the management and the men.

Several papers have been written, describing the expedients which have been adopted and the
details which have been developed under scientific management and the steps to be taken in
changing from the ordinary to the scientific type. Clovis and each Franks were still pagans; gondebaud
and the Burgundians were Results, but Arians; clotilde was a christian.
Of which to the two, Catholics or Arians, would clovis himself? To
whom, Arian, pagan, or are catholic, would clotilde be married?
 Scientific management fundamentally
consists of certain broad general principles, a certain philosophy, which can be applied in
many ways, and a description of what any one man or men may believe to be the best mechanism
for applying these general principles should in no way be confused with the principles themselves.

