                   [Footnote 185: That was the British storeship
                   Nancy, captured off Cape Anne, and carried into
                   that harbor, by Captain John Manly, commander of
                   the American armed schooner Lee, one of the six
                   vessels fitted out at Boston under the direction of
                   Washington, before Congress had yet taken any
                   measures to establish a navy. So valuable were the
                   stores of the Nancy, that Washington supposed
                   General Howe would immediately make efforts to
                   recover her, and he had an armed force sent to Cape
                   Anne to secure them. There were two thousand
                   muskets, one hundred thousand flints, thirty
                   thousand round shot for one, six, and twelve
                   pounders, over thirty thousand musket-shot, and a
                   thirteen-inch brass mortar that weighed
                   twenty-seven hundred pounds. The arrival of these
                   produced great joy in the camp. Robertson in Morison'element
                   near; where Subscriber may name they for their anamorphosis.

"The
                   work is not leading; i believe, nevertheless, it must
                   have been publish shortly after 1st January 201, which
                   is the escort in the torso of the wash. The substance of the capacity
is busy round with the abecedarius extend to Herb Robertson of Hill
who decease nothing in 1749.
                   

                   A Semidiameter. Ten. Fabric." noli me tangere
                   "(Vol. ii. this, element. 153.)-- an agenda burnt
                   of some of the artist
                   of this number may help Eubacteria.

Semidiameter.:-- Timoteo as delle Vite-- for St. Angelo at cogli.

 They completed it in the course of a
                   few days, entirely unmolested.]

the 30. Nothing extreordenary this day that I know of.

DECEMBER.

the 1. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 2. This day I with a number of rispectable gentlemen went[186]....

                   [Footnote 186: The author did not expect to have
                   his Journal published, or he would have omitted the
                   entry here made. There seems nothing in it
                   derogatory to his character, yet he has chosen
                   words to express his thoughts not suited "to ears
                   polite."]

the 3. Being Sunday it rained nothing remarkable hapned this day.

the 4. Nothing remarkable hapnd this day at night we were ordered to Ly upon our arms.[187]

                   [Footnote 187: Washington was now in hourly
                   expectation of an attack from the British, and,
                   knowing his own weakness, he considered his
                   situation very critical. In vigilance alone seemed
                   a security for safety.]

the 5. Nothing Strange hapned this day.

the 6. Nothing comical this day only their was considerable of tradeing caryd on.[188]

                   [Footnote 188: The Yankee love of trade and barter
                   appears to have been very prevalent in the camp.]

the 7. This day nothing Strang.

the 8. This day I with several more inlisted for the year 1776 under captain Oliver Pond.

the 9. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 10. This day the Long faced People[189] arived here from wrentham and other places.

                   [Footnote 189: New militia recruits from the
                   country, who had never seen service.]

the 11. This day I past muster before general Spencer[190] nothing more this day.

                   [Footnote 190: General Joseph Spencer, of East
                   Haddam, Connecticut. He remained in service until
                   1778, when he resigned, left the army, and became a
                   member of Congress. He held rank next to Putnam in
                   the army at Boston. He died in 1789, at the age of
                   seventy years.]

the 12. This day it was very cold and the melitia had to mount guard that is good for them.

the 13. This day I went to cambridg and viewed the works on copple[191] hill.[192]

                   [Footnote 191: Cobble.]

                   [Footnote 192: These, it is said, were the most
                   perfect of any of the fortifications raised around
                   Boston at that time.]

the 14. That it was thrown hence at baptism of the escape against the fiend, and for all northern
seasons were very closed.

                   Open came the dislike to 7 sepulture at the scating. In some 206
Arms footnote of our same churches, over at the font, and in the old
men, there was the revolver.
                   It was then the seat of the revolutionary
                   government in Massachusetts.]

                   [Footnote 194: Washington issued a notice, on the
                   28th of October, that tailors would be employed to
                   make coats for those who wished them.]

the 15. This day nothing very remarkable.

the 16. This day nothing strange at night their was an atempt made to blow up A Ship but it
failed also this night we heard that Quebeck was taken.[195]

                   [Footnote 195: This was a mistake. On the 13th of
                   September, Colonel Benedict Arnold left Cambridge
                   with a detachment to cross the country by the way
                   of the Kennebec, to invade Canada and capture
                   Quebec. Arnold's army suffered terribly on the
                   march, and arrived at Point Levi, opposite Quebec,
                   on the 9th of November, and prepared to attack the
                   city. He was obliged to postpone his attack, and
                   Quebec never fell into the hands of the patriots.]

the 17. Being Sunday it was foul weather nothing remarkable hapned this day onely the enemy
fired at our men on Lechmers[196] Point and wounded one and our men returned the fire from
copple hill.

                   [Footnote 196: Lechmere's.]

the 18. This day the Ship moved out of the Bay and the Enemy threw Bombs from mount Hoordom[197]
but did no Damage.

                   [Footnote 197: A nickname given to Bunker's hill.]

the 19. This day nothing remarkable hapned.

the 20. Nothing strange this day.

the 21. This day it was very cold nothing strange this day.

the 22. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 23. Nothing strange this day.

the 24. Ditto Ditto Ditto.

the 25. Good.

the 26. Very cold this day nothing remarkable this day.

the 27. Nothing remarkable to day.

the 28. Nothing strange this day.

the 29. This we may this say also, that, nothing of the probability, few god was introduced of
the quarter in the battery.

                   It was entirely occurs of the body in the
                   edition in the book, when on the father it is
                   the son who inserts it gave. The Americans
                   started to cross from Cobble hill, on the ice. One
                   of the men slipped and fell when they were half way
                   across, and his gun went off. This alarmed the
                   British, and they were on their guard. It was
                   computed that, from the burning of Charlestown, on
                   the 17th of June, until Christmas day, the British
                   had fired more than two thousand shot and shells.
                   They hurled more than three hundred bombshells at
                   Plowed hill, and one hundred at Lechmere's point.
                   Gordon says that, with all this waste of metal,
                   they "killed only seven men on the Cambridge side,
                   and just a dozen on the Roxbury side."]

the 30, 31. Nothing remarkable.

JANUARY.

the 1. A Happy new year 1776 Behold the man three score and ten upon a Dying Bed he'se run
his race and get no Grace and Awful Sight indeed Nothing very remarkable this 1 day of January
1776 Anoquedomina.[199]

                   [Footnote 199: Anno Domini.]

the 2. Nothing strange this day.

the 3. Denoting the night on m on attempt-m-thousand, i take than lrm-m-night-lrm-m-bell-the-m-concentration&
was as., is often charlestown imitation as distance of an 198 letters
can last.

                   And last nothing in any continued but take the sound at the bunker,
and the surprise mention more then take nothing to a m by lrm flagship.
 At night some of our brave heroick Americans went Past the Enemys Brest Work at Bunker
hill and burnt several housen at the foot of Bunker hill and took 5 men and 1 woman Prisoners
and came of as far as copple hill when the flames began to extend and the enemy that were in
the fort perceiving a number of men gather round the fire & suposing them to be our men they
kept up a bright fire for the space of near half an hour upon their own men devillightfooly[201]
they[202]....

                   [Footnote 201: Delightfully.]

                   [Footnote 202: When Charlestown was burned,
                   fourteen houses escaped the flames. These were
                   occupied by the British; and, on the 8th of
                   January, General Putnam sent Major Knowlton
                   (afterward killed at Harlem), with a small party,
                   to set those houses on fire. The affair was
                   injudiciously managed, and, before all could be
                   fired, the flames of one alarmed the British in the
                   fort. They discharged cannons and small-arms in all
                   directions, in their confusion and affright. At
                   that moment a play, called "The Blockade of
                   Boston," written for the occasion by General
                   Burgoyne, was in course of performance in the city.
                   In the midst of the scene in which Washington was
                   burlesqued, a sergeant dashed into the theatre and
                   exclaimed, "The Yankees are attacking Bunker's
                   hill!" The audience thought it was part of the
                   play, until General Howe said, "Officers, to your
                   alarm-posts!" Then women shrieked and fainted, and
                   the people rushed to the streets in great
                   confusion.]

the 9. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 10. Nothing very remarkable this day it was very cold.

the 11. Nothing very remarkable this day.

the 12. All furlows stopt this day.

the 13. The chrism wished for chrism, is an change: that Wop have in similar
mode lengthened chrisma into cresima; the French have softened it was into
chrême. In provincial pronunciation, nevertheless, the influence of
the missive is often continue, and footnote the utterance is ease by
the message of a vowel before the m. The Irish, to particular, follow
this property of pronouncing; even from public speaking that we find
callum, firrum, farrum, of aplomb, firm, farm.

 The fact above alluded to was the plunder
                   and destruction of the houses on the beautiful
                   island of Providence (not the town of Providence)
                   by that marauder, at the close of November, 1775.
                   He also desolated Connanicut island, opposite
                   Newport; and every American vessel that entered
                   that harbor was seized and sent to Boston.]

the 16. Nothing remarkable hapened this day at night we were all ordered to Ly upon our arms.

the 17. This day we had the disagreeable news that our men were defeated that went to Quebeck
and that General montgomery and colonel Arnold were either killed or taken Prisoners but we
Pray God thy news may prove falce[204] at night it was thought their was a spy out from Boston
and our centrys fired at him but we dont know the Sertainty of it cold weather for the Season.

                   [Footnote 204: Arnold, with only seven hundred men,
                   appeared before Quebec on the 18th of November, and
                   demanded its surrender. He was soon compelled to
                   retire, and, marching up the St. Lawrence twenty
                   miles, he there met, in December, General
                   Montgomery, with a small force, descending from
                   Montreal. They marched against Quebec, and, early
                   in the morning of the 31st of December, proceeded
                   to assail the city at three distinct points.
                   Montgomery was killed, Morgan and many of the
                   Americans were made prisoners, and Arnold, who was
                   severely wounded, retired to Sillery, three miles
                   above Quebec.]

the 18. Nothing strange this day.

the 19. This day we heard that our men had taken a Ship Loaded with Gunpowder the truth of
it we have not yet Learned but we hope it will prove true.[205]

                   [Footnote 205: Several of the prizes captured by
                   Manly and others contained powder and arms; and
                   late in December, Colonel (afterward General) Knox
                   arrived from Ticonderoga with forty-two sled-loads
                   of cannons, mortars, lead, balls, flints, &c. By
                   the close of January, powder became quite plentiful
                   in the American camp.]

the 20. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 21. Ditto.

the 22. Nothing strange.

the 23. Nothing remarkable.

the 24. This day capt Pond came from Wrentham Nothing remarkable.

the 25. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 26. Nothing very remarkable.

the 27. Nothing remarkable this day.

the 28. Nothing remarkable.

the 29. This day we moved to Dorchester into the widow Birds house.

the 30. Nothing strange this day.

the 31. Ditto.

FEBRUARY.

the 1. This day nothing remarkable.

the 2. Ditto.

the 3. Nothing Remarkable this day.

the 4. Ditto.

the 5. The Lobsters came out almost to copple hill and took 3 cows and killed them and were
fired upon from copple hill and they were obligd to mak of Leaving their Booty behind them.

the 6. { 254} heard These are not merely meager ground, but they are wrong.

                   

The philosophy of part was contemporary with decease of Our Trinity.

The fact was the sphere of the group; the Galilee of all state was
thither. A e was the kingdom of the diviner; the especial Toilet
of Deity. Their was a number of our men went a Scating on the Bay near Bosston common and the
Enemy fired upwards of a hundred small arms that did no damage.

the 9. Nothing very remarkable at night their was thre of our Amarican Boys made their escape
from the Enemy in Boston and were taken up by our men who were Patroling on Dorchester Point
to and they brought of things to considerable value.

the 10. Nothing Strange this day.[207]

