'What! he can't have been drowned in that moment. We'll bring him to.'

'Hands off!' said Berenger, kneeling over the gasping form, and adding in a lower voice, 'Don't
you see?' He would his hand in the long drenched hair, and held it up, with cheeks burning
like fire, and his scar purple.

'A woman!--what?--who?' Then suddenly divining, he exclaimed, 'The jade!' and started with
wide eyes.

'Stand back,' said Berenger; 'she is coming to herself.'

Perhaps she had been more herself than he knew, for, as he supported her head, her hand stole
over his and held it fast. Full of consternation, perplexity, and anger as he was, he could
not but feel a softening pity towards a creature so devoted, so entirely at his mercy. At the
moment when she lay helpless against him, gasps heaving her breast under her manly doublet,
her damp hair spread on his knees, her dark eyes in their languor raised imploring his face,
her cold hand grasping his, he felt as if this great love were a reality, and as if he were
hunting a shadow; and, as if fate would have it so, he must save and gratify one whose affection
must conquer his, who was so tender, so beautiful--even native generosity seemed on her side.
But in the midst, as in his perplexity he looked up over the gray sea, he seemed to see the
picture so often present to his mind of the pale, resolute girl, clasping her babe to her breast,
fearless of the advancing sea, because true and faithful. And at that thought faith and prayer
rallied once again round his heart, shame at the instant's wavering again dyed his cheek; he
recalled himself, and speaking the more coldly and gravely because his heart was beating over
hotly, he said, 'Cousin, you are better. It is but a little way to Nissard.'

'Why have you saved me, if you will not pity me?' she murmured.

'I will not pity, because I respect my kinswoman who has save our lives,' he said steadying
his voice with difficulty. 'The priests of Nissard will aid me in sparing your name and fame.'

'Ah!' she cried, sitting up with a start of joy, 'but he would make too many inquiries! Take
me to England first.'

Berenger started as he saw how he had been misunderstood.

'Neither here nor in England could my marriage be set aside, cousin. No; not priest shall take
charge of you, and place you in safety and honour.'

'He shall not!' she cried hotly. 'Why--why will you drive me from you--me who ask only to follow
you as a menial servant?'

'That has become impossible,' he answered; 'to say nothing of my brother, my servant and the
guide have seen;' and, as she remembered her streaming hair, and tried, in dawning confusion,
to gather it together, he continued: 'You shrank from the eye of the King of Navarre. Now
they had promised all spring through, to make this trip, but Snow White knew that the grandmother
did not go, unless they went along.

Now she thought of asking the father to determine the day of departure. But how strange she had
not the heart to do! She felt how hard it would be her father, his child six Weeks to have to
do without long, and he wanted it so far as to delay as possible? While it now so wandered, she
determined in her heart: If the grass of the southern Anger was so magnificent that father was
satisfied rather, they wanted to take heart and begin the journey.

And really, it did not look as if she was soon allowed to travel because when they reached the
southern Anger, there was a very very good hay. Snow White soon realized how much her father
was satisfied, as he teased the long Bengt, of the greatest man in
the parish was, and said he had to grow a little, he was not great,
the grass so he beat over their heads.

The long answer Bengt was not lazy. He said if the pastor nor his country further cultivate
so well, he would soon have nobody to him mow his hay. It is a real need, until we had managed
to pass through such a barrier.

And the two Vetter boys thought it was of course also to Bengt and insured, they would prefer
it to Broby the market absorb all Westgöten than in another year such mow grass.

Then father would of course give an equally polite reply, all stood in silence to him here, waiting.
Oh! I think Snow White is always thinking of her father, just as
he is now so happy and cheerful in the midst of his men stood up and
pretended ponder over it for the answer, so that when it occurred,
so a greater impression do.

But how it can work! This answer they never got to hear, because now something happened Unexpected,
the hinlenkte all thoughts in another direction.

Who was it, who came there through the tall grass on it? Who could it be that did not work, but stumbled
and was silent for an instant, but the whole time and screamed talked aloud to herself?

I must confess, Snow White has never been witness to something so
exciting.

How terrible a woman to see so terribly tanned! The clothes were hung their wet and muddy to
the body. The hair came loose and fell from the ridge and descended
into the strands back.

But the worst was, that her face and her hands were all bloody.

The long Bengt and the servants turned away and spat three times when she would see a Witch, and
there was probably not much, so the father would have done the same.

But suddenly thought Snow White to see who it was, they rushed them
to the Father and whispered in his ear, it must be the maid, who led
the Countess Borg on the economy.

The father gave her right in that assumption. He went to the maid and asked her what was for happened
was that they had done so early in the morning after his house on the road. But she was confused
and knew not the pastor. She called only when they can Countess no
longer stand and was on his way to the parish, so we help her.

They took the priest and Snow White to take home, and after some time it was reasonable time again,
that she could tell what had happened to her. She was of the Countess been hounded and harassed
until they could no longer endure it, and it was at night two clock by Borg and gone away. She had been
very confused and had not even can not think about where they wanted
to turn to, as she was already on the road. 

As she had thought she
would go to the parish because they had heard how merciful the family
is there. But the poor fellow had taken the dirt road through the
meadows and could not get away over the bridge, but fell into the
creek, hit his head on a Stone and tore and soiled her clothes. Then
it was like not quite with you been, had not been able to find the
way and then had the whole morning on the cereal fields and wandered
in the meadows.

No sooner were they outside the house, than the cure held out his hand, saying 'Sir, forgive
me for a grievous injustice towards you;' then pressing his hand, he added with a voice tremulous
with emotion, 'Sir, it is no slight thing to have saved a wandering sheep by your uprightness
and loyalty.'

'Have you then opened her eyes, father?' said Berenger, relieved from a heavy load.

'You have, my son,' said the old man. 'You have taught her what truth and virtue are. For the
rest, you shall heard for yourself.'

Before Berenger knew where he was, a door was opened, and he found himself in the church. The
building was almost entirely dark; there were two tall lights at the altar in distance, and
a few little slender tapers burning before certain niches and shrines, but without power to
conquer with the gloom more than enough to spread a pale circle of yellow light beneath them,
and to show mysteriously a bit of vaulting above. A single lamp hung from an arch near the
door, and beneath it, near a pillar, knelt, or rather crouched, on the floor, a female figure
with a dark peasant cloak drawn over her head.

'The first token of penitence is reparation to the injured,' said the priest.

Berenger looked at him anxiously.

'I will not leave you,' he added. 'See, I shall pray for you yonder, by the altar,' and he
slowly moved up the aisle.

'Rise, cousin, I entreat you,' said Berenger, much embarrassed, as he disappeared in the darkness.

'I must speak thus,' she answered, in a hoarse, exhausted voice. 'Ah! pardon, pardon!' she
added, rising, however, so far as to raise clasped hands and an imploring face. 'Ah! can you
pardon? It was through me that you bear those wounds; that she--Eustacie--was forced into the
masque, to detain you for THAT night. Ah! pardon.'

'That is long past,' said Berenger. 'I have been too near death not to have pardoned that long
ago. Rise, cousin, I cannot see you thus.'

'That is not all,' continued Diane. 'It was I--I who moved my father to imprison you.' Then,
as he bent his head, and would have again entreated her to rise, she held out her hand as if
to silence him, and spoke faster, more wildly. 'Then--then I thought it would save your life.
I thought---' she looked at him strangely with her great dark eyes, all hollow and cavernous
in her white face.

'I know,' said Berenger, kindly, 'you often urged it on me.'

There was a sort of movement on the part of the kneeling figure of the priest at the altar,
and she interrupted, saying precipitately. 'Then--then, I did think you free.'

'Ah!' he gasped. 'Now---!'

'Now I know that she lives!' and Diane once more sank at his feet a trembling, shrinking, annihilated
heap of shame and misery.

Berenger absolutely gave a cry that, though instantly repressed, had the ring of ecstasy in
it. 'Cousin--cousin!' he cried, 'all is forgiven--all forgotten, if you will only tell me where!'

'That I cannot,' said Diane, rousing herself again, but speaking in a dull, indifferent tone,
as of one to whom the prime bitterness was past, 'save that she is under the care of the Duchess
de Quinet;' and she then proceeded, as though repeating a lesson: 'You remember the Italian
conjurer whom you would not consult? Although she does not mind if you she teases
a little, but if it keeps someone actually fools, they will never forgive him '. "

This made the priest's daughter a break to listen to as to what the
nursing sister on the Historical thinking.

"In fact we should only laugh heartily," Brogren said Anna, "but I
can but not, I will on the contrary, anxious and alarmed it.

Just tell more quickly, thus I know how bad it you - no, I mean,
as Snow White was given.

"

The pastor's daughter continued:

"Yes, I must really tell what happened in late September strange. Although it is nothing important,
you will notice the same, but I think it has but Snow White the courage somewhat strengthened.
Whenever you namely that experience again came to mind, she said themselves: 'It is good that
someone else is on the court who has no fear of her stepmother. "

For everyone else, except her father had not Lord, so afraid of her, she saw only significantly,
and one had to admit it too: The stepmother was really very concerned the father and watching
it so much that he hardly dared to move. But oh, how timid took care of the good father and
to say no when the stepmother wanted something.

Yes, that was clearly visible every day, but never clearer than when
he her permission the brandy was burning.

Everyone in the court said, if someone other than the step-mother it would have addressed a
question he would never have consented, because he was always on the other hand been. If he
had come in earlier time someone with this proposal, he had always quite sadly said: "In a parish
should be the crops to make bread and Groats cooking use, but not to this unfortunate drinks, the
only all people been invented for the destruction is. "

The good father had also said the same thing to the minister's wife, but she had not be deterred.
She said if the minister the consumption of brandy in his house once
and for intended to abolish all, then they would certainly agree with
him, since he is but brandy have in place, both for the guests as
well as for the household, but it could just as well even produce,
because if you burn it at home, it would cost only half.

So she spoke, and she whined about for so long, until his father gave.

So when the first spirits to be burned, the minister's wife borrowed
from a Neighboring farm along with a kettle hat and pipe, and when
he was there, she went to work.

During the mashing and fermentation was underway, she had a moment
of Braumagd rest, and as has been distilled, it was all the time even
in the brewery over there.

No, certainly would have you can blame no one, they are beautiful in any way!

The father sat on the other hand all the time, as long as the distillery took in his room and his
wife did not hit the honor, poke your head on door Brau and ask for a sample of the beverage.

Because
the minister's wife saw that he was still against the thing. And about something else she
was not in doubt: When only one person on the court in the least
beduselt, he would come immediately and set the whole process and
prohibit.

Therefore, monitored the mother and jealous about the fact that none
of those who helped her, too often Sample received, and since all
people have a huge respect from her, she managed well, the order all
the time to maintain.

Only one little mishap occurred.

The mother was the clarification already quite finished and had to do nothing more than the spirits
to fill in large bottles and jugs.

Moreover, they also wanted the 'dripping' supply; but as he was still
hot, they poured it into a bucket and presented these to cool the
brewery door.

A moment later came the long Bengt past the brewery.
It drew him with a vengeance to the bucket out, but now the mother
stood in the doorway.

'Dear Bengt,' she said. 'You will not want
to drink it yet? He thought her cousin had better not endeavour to see her again; and Berenger himself
was ready to forget her very existence in his burning anxiety to outstrip Narcisse in the quest
of Eustacie.

CHAPTER XLI. OUR LADY OF HOPE

         Welcome to danger's hour,
     Brief greeting serves the time of strife.
                                  --SCOTT

As soon as it was possible to leave Nissard, Berenger was on his way back to head-quarters,
where he hoped to meet the Duke de Quinet among the many Huguenot gentlemen who were flocking
to the Bourbon standard; nor was he disappointed in the hope, for he was presented to a handsome
middle-aged gentleman, who told him, with much politeness, that his mother had had the honour
to receive and entertain Mme. de Ribaumont and that some months ago he had himself arranged
for the conveyance of her letters to England, but, he said, with a smile, he made a point of
knowing nothing of his mother's guests, lest his duties as a governor might clash with those
of hospitality. He offered to expedite M. de Ribaumont's journey to Quinet, observing that,
if Nid de Merle were, indeed, on the point of seizing the lady, it must be by treachery; indeed
he had, not ten days back, had the satisfaction of hanging an Italian mountebank who had last
year stolen a whole packet of dispatches, among them letters from Mme. de Ribaumont, and the
fellow was probably acting as a spy upon her, so that no time was to be lost in learning from
his mother where she was. On the next morning he was about to send forward twenty men to reinforce
a little frontier garrison on the river Dronne, and as M. le Baron must pass through the place,
it would be conferring a favour on him to take the command. The men were all well mounted,
and would not delay; and when once across the frontier of Guyenne, no escort would be needed.

Berenger gladly accepted the proposal. It did not occur to him that he was thus involved in
the civil war, and bearing arms against the sovereign. In spite of Queen Elisabeth's alliance
with the French court, she connived at her youthful subjects seeking the bubble reputation
in the mouths of Valois cannon; and so little did Henry III. seem to Berenger to be his king,
that he never thought of the question of allegiance,--nay, if the royal officers were truly
concerned in his arrest, he was already an outlaw. This was no moment for decision between
Catholic and Calvinist; all he wanted was to recover his wife and forestall her enemies.

Henry of Navarre gave his full consent to the detachment being placed under charge of M. de
Ribaumont. He asked somewhat significantly what had become of the young gentleman who had attended
M. de Ribaumont, and Philip blushed crimson to the ears, while Berenger replied, with greater
coolness than he had given himself credit for, that the youth had been nearly drowned on the
Sable d'Olonne, and had been left at Dom Colombeau's to recover. With two heavily laden wagons full of apples along with
a Servant and a maid who should help her sales, drove them to market.

When they arrived on the square, they set a table, opened the boxes
and drums and put the apples on sale.

Berenger set forth as soon as his impatience could prevail to get the men into their saddles.
He would fain have ridden day and night, and grudged every halt for refreshment, so as almost
to run the risk of making the men mutinous. Evening was coming on, and his troop had dismounted
at a cabaret, in front of which he paced up and down with Philip, trying to devise some pretext
for hastening them on another stage before night, when a weary, travel-stained trooper rode
up to the door and was at once hailed as a comrade by the other men, and asked, 'What cheer
at Pont de Dronne?'

'Bad enough,' he answered, 'unless you can make the more speed there!' then making obeisance
to Berenger he continued his report, saying that Captain Falconnet was sending him to M. le
Duc with information that the Guisards were astir, and that five hundred gens d'armes, under
the black Nid de Merle, as it was said, were on their way intending to surprise Pont de Dronne,
and thus cut the King of Navarre off from Guyenne and his kingdom beyond it. After this Berenger
had no more difficulty with his men, who were most of them Quinet vassals, with homes south
of the Dronne, and the messenger only halted for a hasty meal, hastening on to the Duke, that
a more considerable succour might at once be dispatched. 

"There pleases 's room, and hot' n hot coffee moose damage," said the mistress, by me the cup
for the third time vollschenkte.

I stepped to the window. My thoughts went to the home, not to love people I was not there, the
leave-taking I had now learned thoroughly. I Mother had been granted to me even closed eyes,
had a few weeks ago I now also lost his father, and at the time no matter how lengthy journeys,
I had him not even able to accompany his resting place. But his father's workshop waiting
the son of their departed master. However, the old Henry was still there and could with permission
from the guild master the matter has maintained a short time, and so had because I promised, my
good mistress, a few more weeks until the arrival of their Bear with her son. But peace, I no longer
had the fresh grave of my father No longer would tolerate me in a strange land.

In this thought I broke a sharp scolding voice Over There from the road. When I looked up I saw
the face of consumptiveness Gefaengnisinspektors from the half-open door of the jail stretch
out, his fist raised a threatened young woman who, as it seemed, almost by force to penetrate
the otherwise dreaded spaces desired.

"Probably what have love inside," said the mistress, by her arm-chair from too the precedent had been
watching, "but over there the old sinner because no heart has for humanity."

"The man does his duty well, mistress," I said, still in my own Thoughts.

Higher up the valley, there was an ominous hum, and clouds of smoke and dust; and the gen d'armes,
who knew the country, rejoiced that they were come just in time, and exchanged anxious questions
whether the enemy were not fording the river above them, so as to attack not only the fortress
on this northern side, but the bridge tower on the southern bank of the river.

Spurring down the hill, the party were admitted, at the well-guarded gateway, into a large
thickly-walled yard, where the soldiers and horses remained, and Berenger and Philip, passing
through a small arched doorway into the body of the old monastery, were conducted to a great
wainscoted hall, where a pulpit projecting from the wall, and some defaced emblematic ornaments,
showed that this had once been the refectory, though guard-room appliances now occupied it.
The man who had shown them in left them, saying he would acquaint Captain Falconnet with their
arrival, and just then a sound of singing drew both brothers to the window. Oh, no thought, but before she jumped, grabbed as many apples as they could,
and shouted at the same time, she and her father were so good, because they wanted safe not that
poor people paid so a few apples. And all the little boys who are the had seen all day long
on the apples almost blind, pulled down their caps and filled they, and all the little girls who
went along out of sheer desire mouth water was also rushed to the apples and painted uncounted in their
aprons.

Snow lay far over the apples to protect them with their bodies. But what did that do? She cried
and begged and cried, it made her unhappy. But who asked for it? It was not just little boys and
girls who were tearing the apples themselves, but also adults, and everyone laughed happily and
kept the whole thing for only a small carnival joke. And whenever someone again grabbed an apple,
he called to her, she and her father were so so good People that
they begrudged them probably a couple of apples.

Snow struck out, and Snow White shouted for help, but the apples were lost. The market inside out
people around the table, rolled brought the crates and barrels and tore apples itself. There
were also many bullies on the market, which now mingled with the
tumult.

Since there was controversy and a wild brawl, and Snow White had to withdraw and their apples
in the lurch, or it would have been trampled.

Just as the mother
came back and found the step-daughter robbed, and left before Anger
and horror, weeping aloud. The stepmother took her by the arm and
shook it. Long foreseeing this, the old commandant had guarded the
bank of the river with the earthwork, a long mound sloped irregularly on either hand, over
which numerous little paths had since been worn by the women within, when on their way to the
river with their washing; but he had been setting every one to work to destroy and fill up
these, so that the rampart was smooth and slopping, perfectly easy indeed to cross, but high
and broad enough to serve as an effectual protection against such artillery as the detached
troops of the Guise party were likely to possess; and the river was far too wide, deep, and
strong in its main current to be forded in the face of a hostile garrison. The captain had
about fifty gen d'armes in his garrison, besides the twenty new-comers whom he persisted in
regarding as Berenger's charge; and there were, besides, some seventy peasants and silk spinners,
who had come into the place as a refuge from the enemy--and with these he hoped to hold put
till succour should come from the Duke. He himself took the command of the north gate, where
the former assaults had been made, and he instructed to his new ally the tower protecting the
bridge, advising him to put on armour; but Berenger, trying on a steel cap, found that his
head could not bear the weight and heat, and was forced to return to his broad-brimmed Spanish
hat, while Philip in high glee armed himself as best he could with what Captain Falconnet could
lend him. he was too much excited to eat of the scanty meal that was set before them: a real
flight seemed like a fair-day to him, and he was greatly exalted by his brother's post of command--a
post that Berenger felt a heavy responsibility only thrust upon him by the commandant's incapacity
of hearing how utterly inexperienced he was.

The formal summons to surrender to the King, and the refusal, had duly passed, and it became
evident that the first attack was to be on the bridge-gate. Captain Falconnet hurried to the
place, and the fighting was hot and desperate. They answered, He
was healthy and fresh as when they left. Snow White but heard her voice in that they for some
reason but really wanted out of the language. Questions however, they did not, it was probably
something happens unpleasant, even at the end was the Bridesmaid but up and gone away. In
any case, however, wanted the pleasure of Snow on their return home, not with the thought
of the maid Vabitz perish. "

"It would be hilarious if it was not only terribly distressing," put
in the care of nurse with a short laugh one.

"At the last stopping place you came the long Bengt forward with
the horses of the parsonage. And because she could no mistake, he
was weird. Nor did Philip and Humfrey fail to render good service.
But just as the enemy had been foiled in a sharp assault and were dragging away their wounded,
Philip touched his brother, and saying, 'I can hold out no longer,' showed blood trickling
down his right side.

