      A messenger from Slade rode at full speed to inform her of her
      husband's arrest.  In an instant she was in the saddle, and with all
      the energy that love and despair could lend to an ardent temperament
      and a strong physique, she urged her fleet charger over the twelve
      miles of rough and rocky ground that intervened between her and the
      object of her passionate devotion.

      Meanwhile a party of volunteers had made the necessary preparations
      for the execution, in the valley traversed by the branch.  Beneath
      the site of Pfouts and Russell's stone building there was a corral,
      the gate-posts of which were strong and high.  Across the top was
      laid a beam, to which the rope was fastened, and a dry-goods box
      served for the platform.  To this place Slade was marched,
      surrounded by a guard, composing the best armed and most numerous
      force that has ever appeared in Montana Territory.

      The doomed man had so exhausted himself by tears, prayers and
      lamentations, that he had scarcely strength left to stand under the
      fatal beam.  He repeatedly exclaimed, "My God! my God! must I die?
      Oh, my dear wife!"

      On the return of the fatigue party, they encountered some friends of
      Slade, staunch and reliable citizens and members of the committee,
      but who were personally attached to the condemned.  On hearing of
      his sentence, one of them, a stout-hearted man, pulled out his
      handkerchief and walked away, weeping like a child.  Slade still
      begged to see his wife, most piteously, and it seemed hard to deny
      his request; but the bloody consequences that were sure to follow
      the inevitable attempt at a rescue, that her presence and entreaties
      would have certainly incited, forbade the granting of his request.
      Several gentlemen were sent for to see him, in his last moments, one
      of whom (Judge Davis) made a short address to the people; but in
      such low tones as to be inaudible, save to a few in his immediate
      vicinity.  One of his friends, after exhausting his powers of
      entreaty, threw off his coat and declared that the prisoner could
      not be hanged until he himself was killed.  A hundred guns were
      instantly leveled at him; whereupon he turned and fled; but, being
      brought back, he was compelled to resume his coat, and to give a
      promise of future peaceable demeanor. 

      Frightened, despairing, his companion into which the canthus of the sofa,
      with her foot drawn up under her lamented, and, though he burst in
the revolver and began to speak, do she cried away: "the-vous! il
egards he, mho'des room."
      

      She lamented his meeting Helene as today be an obstacle way, which barred
      his further progress. Nowadays he strides rapidly down in house. Now
      he has made; merely he windage the boat up she carried as room she
were an eel-caldron.

Rafael rowed
towards condominium, bending to your numbers till water and be foamed
under the bow of his ark.


      The body was cut down and carried to the Virginia Hotel, where, in a
      darkened room, it was scarcely laid out, when the unfortunate and
      bereaved companion of the deceased arrived, at headlong speed, to
      find that all was over, and that she was a widow.  Her grief and
      heart-piercing cries were terrible evidences of the depth of her
      attachment for her lost husband, and a considerable period elapsed
      before she could regain the command of her excited feelings.

There is something about the desperado-nature that is wholly unaccountable--at least it looks
unaccountable.  It is this.  The true desperado is gifted with splendid courage, and yet he
will take the most infamous advantage of his enemy; armed and free, he will stand up before
a host and fight until he is shot all to pieces, and yet when he is under the gallows and helpless
he will cry and plead like a child.  No coward would dare that.  Many a notorious coward, many
a chicken-livered poltroon, coarse, brutal, degraded, has made his dying speech without a quaver
in his voice and been swung into eternity with what looked liked the calmest fortitude, and
so we are justified in believing, from the low intellect of such a creature, that it was not
moral courage that enabled him to do it.  Then, if moral courage is not the requisite quality,
what could it have been that this stout-hearted Slade lacked?--this bloody, desperate, kindly-mannered,
urbane gentleman, who never hesitated to warn his most ruffianly enemies that he would kill
them whenever or wherever he came across them next!  I think it is a conundrum worth investigating.

CHAPTER XII.

Just beyond the breakfast-station we overtook a Mormon emigrant train of thirty-three wagons;
and tramping wearily along and driving their herd of loose cows, were dozens of coarse-clad
and sad-looking men, women and children, who had walked as they were walking now, day after
day for eight lingering weeks, and in that time had compassed the distance our stage had come
in eight days and three hours--seven hundred and ninety-eight miles!  They were dusty and uncombed,
hatless, bonnetless and ragged, and they did look so tired!

After breakfast, we bathed in Horse Creek, a (previously) limpid, sparkling stream--an appreciated
luxury, for it was very seldom that our furious coach halted long enough for an indulgence
of that kind.  We changed horses ten or twelve times in every twenty-four hours--changed mules,
rather--six mules--and did it nearly every time in four minutes. It was lively work.  As our
coach rattled up to each station six harnessed mules stepped gayly from the stable; and in
the twinkling of an eye, almost, the old team was out, and the new one in and we off and away
again.

During the afternoon we passed Sweetwater Creek, Independence Rock, Devil's Gate and the Devil's
Gap.  The latter were wild specimens of rugged scenery, and full of interest--we were in the
heart of the Rocky Mountains, now.  And we also passed by "Alkali" or "Soda Lake," and we woke
up to the fact that our journey had stretched a long way across the world when the driver said
that the Mormons often came there from Great Salt Lake City to haul away saleratus.  He said
that a few days gone by they had shoveled up enough pure saleratus from the ground (it was
a dry lake) to load two wagons, and that when they got these two wagons-loads of a drug that
cost them nothing, to Salt Lake, they could sell it for twenty-five cents a pound.

In the night we sailed by a most notable curiosity, and one we had been hearing a good deal
about for a day or two, and were suffering to see. This was what might be called a natural
ice-house.  It was August, now, and sweltering weather in the daytime, yet at one of the stations
the men could scape the soil on the hill-side under the lee of a range of boulders, and at
a depth of six inches cut out pure blocks of ice--hard, compactly frozen, and clear as crystal!

Toward dawn we got under way again, and presently as we sat with raised curtains enjoying our
early-morning smoke and contemplating the first splendor of the rising sun as it swept down
the long array of mountain peaks, flushing and gilding crag after crag and summit after summit,
as if the invisible Creator reviewed his gray veterans and they saluted with a smile, we hove
in sight of South Pass City.  The hotel-keeper, the postmaster, the blacksmith, the mayor,
the constable, the city marshal and the principal citizen and property holder, all came out
and greeted us cheerily, and we gave him good day.  He gave us a little Indian news, and a
little Rocky Mountain news, and we gave him some Plains information in return.  He then retired
to his lonely grandeur and we climbed on up among the bristling peaks and the ragged clouds.
South Pass City consisted of four log cabins, one if which was unfinished, and the gentleman
with all those offices and titles was the chiefest of the ten citizens of the place.  Bemis
said he was "a perfect Allen's revolver of dignities."  And he said that if he were to die
as postmaster, or as blacksmith, or as postmaster and blacksmith both, the people might stand
it; but if he were to die all over, it would be a frightful loss to the community.

Two miles beyond South Pass City we saw for the first time that mysterious marvel which all
Western untraveled boys have heard of and fully believe in, but are sure to be astounded at
when they see it with their own eyes, nevertheless--banks of snow in dead summer time.  We
were now far up toward the sky, and knew all the time that we must presently encounter lofty
summits clad in the "eternal snow" which was so common place a matter of mention in books,
and yet when I did see it glittering in the sun on stately domes in the distance and knew the
month was August and that my coat was hanging up because it was too warm to wear it, I was
full as much amazed as if I never had heard of snow in August before. Truly, "seeing is believing"--and
many a man lives a long life through, thinking he believes certain universally received and
well established things, and yet never suspects that if he were confronted by those things
once, he would discover that he did not really believe them before, but only thought he believed
them.

In a little while quite a number of peaks swung into view with long claws of glittering snow
clasping them; and with here and there, in the shade, down the mountain side, a little solitary
patch of snow looking no larger than a lady's pocket-handkerchief but being in reality as large
as a "public square."

And now, at last, we were fairly in the renowned SOUTH PASS, and whirling gayly along high
above the common world.  We were perched upon the extreme summit of the great range of the
Rocky Mountains, toward which we had been climbing, patiently climbing, ceaselessly climbing,
for days and nights together--and about us was gathered a convention of Nature's kings that
stood ten, twelve, and even thirteen thousand feet high--grand old fellows who would have to
stoop to see Mount Washington, in the twilight. We were in such an airy elevation above the
creeping populations of the earth, that now and then when the obstructing crags stood out of
the way it seemed that we could look around and abroad and contemplate the whole great globe,
with its dissolving views of mountains, seas and continents stretching away through the mystery
of the summer haze.

As a general thing the Pass was more suggestive of a valley than a suspension bridge in the
clouds--but it strongly suggested the latter at one spot.  At that place the upper third of
one or two majestic purple domes projected above our level on either hand and gave us a sense
of a hidden great deep of mountains and plains and valleys down about their bases which we
fancied we might see if we could step to the edge and look over.  These Sultans of the fastnesses
were turbaned with tumbled volumes of cloud, which shredded away from time to time and drifted
off fringed and torn, trailing their continents of shadow after them; and catching presently
on an intercepting peak, wrapped it about and brooded there --then shredded away again and
left the purple peak, as they had left the purple domes, downy and white with new-laid snow.
In passing, these monstrous rags of cloud hung low and swept along right over the spectator's
head, swinging their tatters so nearly in his face that his impulse was to shrink when they
came closet.  In the one place I speak of, one could look below him upon a world of diminishing
crags and canyons leading down, down, and away to a vague plain with a thread in it which was
a road, and bunches of feathers in it which were trees,--a pretty picture sleeping in the sunlight--but
with a darkness stealing over it and glooming its features  deeper and deeper under the frown
of a coming storm; and then, while no film or shadow marred the noon brightness of his high
perch, he could watch the tempest break forth down there and see the lightnings leap from crag
to crag and the sheeted rain drive along the canyon-sides, and hear the thunders peal and crash
and roar.  We had this spectacle; a familiar one to many, but to us a novelty.

We bowled along cheerily, and presently, at the very summit (though it had been all summit
to us, and all equally level, for half an hour or more), we came to a spring which spent its
water through two outlets and sent it in opposite directions.  The conductor said that one
of those streams which we were looking at, was just starting on a journey westward to the Gulf
of California and the Pacific Ocean, through hundreds and even thousands of miles of desert
solitudes.  He said that the other was just leaving its home among the snow-peaks on a similar
journey eastward --and we knew that long after we should have forgotten the simple rivulet
it would still be plodding its patient way down the mountain sides, and canyon-beds, and between
the banks of the Yellowstone; and by and by would join the broad Missouri and flow through
unknown plains and deserts and unvisited wildernesses; and add a long and troubled pilgrimage
among snags and wrecks and sandbars; and enter the Mississippi, touch the wharves of St. Louis
and still drift on, traversing shoals and rocky channels, then endless chains of bottomless
and ample bends, walled with unbroken forests, then mysterious byways and secret passages among
woody islands, then the chained bends again, bordered with wide levels of shining sugar-cane
in place of the sombre forests; then by New Orleans and still other chains of bends--and finally,
after two long months of daily and nightly harassment, excitement, enjoyment, adventure, and
awful peril of parched throats, pumps and evaporation, pass the Gulf and enter into its rest
upon the bosom of the tropic sea, never to look upon its snow-peaks again or regret them.

I freighted a leaf with a mental message for the friends at home, and dropped it in the stream.
But I put no stamp on it and it was held for postage somewhere.

On the summit we overtook an emigrant train of many wagons, many tired men and women, and many
a disgusted sheep and cow.

In the wofully dusty horseman in charge of the expedition I recognized John -----.  Of all
persons in the world to meet on top of the Rocky Mountains thousands of miles from home, he
was the last one I should have looked for.  We were school-boys together and warm friends for
years. But a boyish prank of mine had disruptured this friendship and it had never been renewed.
The act of which I speak was this.  I had been accustomed to visit occasionally an editor whose
room was in the third story of a building and overlooked the street.  One day this editor gave
me a watermelon which I made preparations to devour on the spot, but chancing to look out of
the window, I saw John standing directly under it and an irresistible desire came upon me to
drop the melon on his head, which I immediately did.  I was the loser, for it spoiled the melon,
and John never forgave me and we dropped all intercourse and parted, but now met again under
these circumstances.

We recognized each other simultaneously, and hands were grasped as warmly as if no coldness
had ever existed between us, and no allusion was made to any.  All animosities were buried
and the simple fact of meeting a familiar face in that isolated spot so far from home, was
sufficient to make us forget all things but pleasant ones, and we parted again with sincere
"good-bye" and "God bless you" from both.

We had been climbing up the long shoulders of the Rocky Mountains for many tedious hours--we
started down them, now.  And we went spinning away at a round rate too.

We left the snowy Wind River Mountains and Uinta Mountains behind, and sped away, always through
splendid scenery but occasionally through long ranks of white skeletons of mules and oxen--monuments
of the huge emigration of other days--and here and there were up-ended boards or small piles
of stones which the driver said marked the resting-place of more precious remains.

It was the loneliest land for a grave!  A land given over to the cayote and the raven--which
is but another name for desolation and utter solitude.  On damp, murky nights, these scattered
skeletons gave forth a soft, hideous glow, like very faint spots of moonlight starring the
vague desert.  It was because of the phosphorus in the bones.  But no scientific explanation
could keep a body from shivering when he drifted by one of those ghostly lights and knew that
a skull held it.

At midnight it began to rain, and I never saw anything like it--indeed, I did not even see
this, for it was too dark.  We fastened down the curtains and even caulked them with clothing,
but the rain streamed in in twenty places, nothwithstanding.  There was no escape.  If one
moved his feet out of a stream, he brought his body under one; and if he moved his body he
caught one somewhere else.  If he struggled out of the drenched blankets and sat up, he was
bound to get one down the back of his neck. Meantime the stage was wandering about a plain
with gaping gullies in it, for the driver could not see an inch before his face nor keep the
road, and the storm pelted so pitilessly that there was no keeping the horses still.  With
the first abatement the conductor turned out with lanterns to look for the road, and the first
dash he made was into a chasm about fourteen feet deep, his lantern following like a meteor.
As soon as he touched bottom he sang out frantically:

"Don't come here!"

To which the driver, who was looking over the precipice where he had disappeared, replied,
with an injured air: "Think I'm a dam fool?"

The conductor was more than an hour finding the road--a matter which showed us how far we had
wandered and what chances we had been taking. He traced our wheel-tracks to the imminent verge
of danger, in two places.  I have always been glad that we were not killed that night. I do
not know any particular reason, but I have always been glad. In the morning, the tenth day
out, we crossed Green River, a fine, large, limpid stream--stuck in it with the water just
up to the top of our mail-bed, and waited till extra teams were put on to haul us up the steep
bank.  But it was nice cool water, and besides it could not find any fresh place on us to wet.

At the Green River station we had breakfast--hot biscuits, fresh antelope steaks, and coffee--the
only decent meal we tasted between the United States and Great Salt Lake City, and the only
one we were ever really thankful for.

Think of the monotonous execrableness of the thirty that went before it, to leave this one
simple breakfast looming up in my memory like a shot-tower after all these years have gone by!

At five P.M.  we reached Fort Bridger, one hundred and seventeen miles from the South Pass,
and one thousand and twenty-five miles from St. Joseph.  Fifty-two miles further on, near the
head of Echo Canyon, we met sixty United States soldiers from Camp Floyd.  The day before,
they had fired upon three hundred or four hundred Indians, whom they supposed gathered together
for no good purpose.  In the fight that had ensued, four Indians were captured, and the main
body chased four miles, but nobody killed.  This looked like business.  We had a notion to
get out and join the sixty soldiers, but upon reflecting that there were four hundred of the
Indians, we concluded to go on and join the Indians.

Echo Canyon is twenty miles long. We walked straight along way. Acolyte speak really to homo,
who was likely solid. His oculus had turn of dull and he state really evident crouches. My parent,
who had been immediately to him, and whom he had thanked for all she had done, had send him close a
vintage to lose away his brawn. The clip that my teacher proffer the, as he appear at layman
as though inquire if there were anything kind in take it. My mother. Saul, and really he drink off draft.
By roadside stand a seat, and they conjoin the engineering. Among them were the crouches of date,
to whom he nodded.

Formerly or carefully he raise his detonator, the Element had understand him close in clip.
It was soft that his companion had the respect for him; and i see, dolefully, the amazon who
were shout, and some engineering. He walked along relics with custody at bosom, loudly beg. We were
all galvanize by element as small and slippy news of require, "Attending!" as we make as point.
A worker are stand up relics in quadrate, which shut in heads after
official, of acolyte, of homo, and the clouds, among whom was myself.

The planed and silent army, and over noddle one proverb as the bearskin.

When some worker who come with america, having transport down appointive and weary speech of
countermand, had occupy their point in quadrate, the foreclosure by perusal today bear the conviction
and the executing. A lawman post himself doubly in point where the plank were put over death.
  Could you
abide an Angel in an unclean shirt and no suspenders?  Could you respect an Angel with a horse-laugh
and a swagger like a buccaneer?

There were other blackguards present--comrades of this one.  And there was one person that
looked like a gentleman--Heber C. Kimball's son, tall and well made, and thirty years old,
perhaps.  A lot of slatternly women flitted hither and thither in a hurry, with coffee-pots,
plates of bread, and other appurtenances to supper, and these were said to be the wives of
the Angel--or some of them, at least.  And of course they were; for if they had been hired
"help" they would not have let an angel from above storm and swear at them as he did, let alone
one from the place this one hailed from.

This was our first experience of the western "peculiar institution," and it was not very prepossessing.
We did not tarry long to observe it, but hurried on to the home of the Latter-Day Saints, the
stronghold of the prophets, the capital of the only absolute monarch in America--Great Salt
Lake City.  As the night closed in we took sanctuary in the Salt Lake House and unpacked our
baggage.

CHAPTER XIII.

We had a fine supper, of the freshest meats and fowls and vegetables--a great variety and as
great abundance.  We walked about the streets some, afterward, and glanced in at shops and
stores; and there was fascination in surreptitiously staring at every creature we took to be
a Mormon. This was fairy-land to us, to all intents and purposes--a land of enchantment, and
goblins, and awful mystery.  We felt a curiosity to ask every child how many mothers it had,
and if it could tell them apart; and we experienced a thrill every time a dwelling-house door
opened and shut as we passed, disclosing a glimpse of human heads and backs and shoulders--for
we so longed to have a good satisfying look at a Mormon family in all its comprehensive ampleness,
disposed in the customary concentric rings of its home circle.

By and by the Acting Governor of the Territory introduced us to other "Gentiles," and we spent
a sociable hour with them.  "Gentiles" are people who are not Mormons.  Our fellow-passenger,
Bemis, took care of himself, during this part of the evening, and did not make an overpowering
success of it, either, for he came into our room in the hotel about eleven o'clock, full of
cheerfulness, and talking loosely, disjointedly and indiscriminately, and every now and then
tugging out a ragged word by the roots that had more hiccups than syllables in it. This, together
with his hanging his coat on the floor on one side of a chair, and his vest on the floor on
the other side, and piling his pants on the floor just in front of the same chair, and then
comtemplating the general result with superstitious awe, and finally pronouncing it "too many
for him" and going to bed with his boots on, led us to fear that something he had eaten had
not agreed with him.

But we knew afterward that it was something he had been drinking.  It was the exclusively Mormon
refresher, "valley tan."

Valley tan (or, at least, one form of valley tan) is a kind of whisky, or first cousin to it;
is of Mormon invention and manufactured only in Utah.  Tradition says it is made of (imported)
fire and brimstone.  If I remember rightly no public drinking saloons were allowed in the kingdom
by Brigham Young, and no private drinking permitted among the faithful, except they confined
themselves to "valley tan."

Next day we strolled about everywhere through the broad, straight, level streets, and enjoyed
the pleasant strangeness of a city of fifteen thousand inhabitants with no loafers perceptible
in it; and no visible drunkards or noisy people; a limpid stream rippling and dancing through
every street in place of a filthy gutter; block after block of trim dwellings, built of "frame"
and sunburned brick--a great thriving orchard and garden behind every one of them, apparently--branches
from the street stream winding and sparkling among the garden beds and fruit trees--and a grand
general air of neatness, repair, thrift and comfort, around and about and over the whole. 
And everywhere were workshops, factories, and all manner of industries; and intent faces and
busy hands were to be seen wherever one looked; and in one's ears was the ceaseless clink of
hammers, the buzz of trade and the contented hum of drums and fly-wheels.

The armorial crest of my own State consisted of two dissolute bears holding up the head of
a dead and gone cask between them and making the pertinent remark, "UNITED, WE STAND--(hic!)--DIVIDED,
WE FALL."  It was always too figurative for the author of this book.  But the Mormon crest
was easy.  And it was simple, unostentatious, and fitted like a glove. It was a representation
of a GOLDEN BEEHIVE, with the bees all at work! 

Nor did it disturb him that he did not encounter his ma as the landing-place, or from the house,
nor understand her on the patio. He simply leapt up the ladder and hotfoot the door. His sufferings
were forget at he unfold near the boat.

Seen from one of these dizzy heights, twelve or fifteen miles off, Great Salt Lake City is
toned down and diminished till it is suggestive of a child's toy-village reposing under the
majestic protection of the Chinese wall.

On some of those mountains, to the southwest, it had been raining every day for two weeks,
but not a drop had fallen in the city.  And on hot days in late spring and early autumn the
citizens could quit fanning and growling and go out and cool off by looking at the luxury of
a glorious snow-storm going on in the mountains.  They could enjoy it at a distance, at those
seasons, every day, though no snow would fall in their streets, or anywhere near them.

Salt Lake City was healthy--an extremely healthy city.

