The King received from all sides news and details of these persecutions and of these conversions.
It was by thousands that those who had abjured and taken the communion were counted; ten thousand
in one place; six thousand in another--all at once and instantly.  The King congratulated himself
on his power and his piety.  He believed himself to have renewed the days of the preaching
of the Apostles, and attributed to himself all the honour.  The bishops wrote panegyrics of
him, the Jesuits made the pulpit resound with his praises.  All France was filled with horror
and confusion; and yet there never was so much triumph and joy--never such profusion of laudations!
The monarch doubted not of the sincerity of this crowd of conversions; the converters took
good care to persuade him of it and to beatify him beforehand.  He swallowed their poison in
long. draughts.  He had never yet believed himself so great in the eyes of man, or so advanced
in the eyes of God, in the reparation of his sins and of the scandals of his life.  He heard
nothing but eulogies, while the good and true Catholics and the true bishops, groaned in spirit
to see the orthodox act towards error and heretics as heretical tyrants and heathens had acted
against the truth, the confessors, and the martyrs.  They could not, above all, endure this
immensity of perjury and sacrilege.  They bitterly lamented the durable and irremediable odium
that detestable measure cast upon the true religion, whilst our neighbours, exulting to see
us thus weaken and destroy ourselves, profited by our madness, and built designs upon the hatred
we should draw upon ourselves from all the Protestant powers.

But to these spearing truths, the King was inaccessible.  Even the conduct of Rome in this
matter, could not open his eyes. There were more vain attempts, more delays. After much delay and
many vain attempts to spell on the work, mother asked grandfather to help; but he only shook
his noddle, and grimly replied that it was ten to one if it ever
come unitedly without rum.

The magnificent establishment of Saint-Cyr, followed closely upon the revocation of the edict
of Nantes.  Madame de Montespan had founded at Paris an establishment for the instruction of
young girls in all sorts of fine and ornamental work.  Emulation gave Madame de Maintenon higher
and vaster views which, whilst gratifying the poor nobility, would cause her to be regarded
as protectress in whom all the nobility would feel interested.  She hoped to smooth the way
for a declaration of her marriage, by rendering herself illustrious by a monument with which
she could amuse both the King and herself, and which might serve her as a retreat if she had
the misfortune to lose him, as in fact it happened.

This declaration of her marriage was always her most ardent desire.  She wished above all things
to be proclaimed Queen; and never lost sight of the idea.  Once she was near indeed upon seeing
it gratified.  The King had actually given her his word, that she should be declared; and the
ceremony was forthwith about to take place.  But it was postponed, and for ever, by the representations
of Louvois to the King.  To this interference that minister owed his fall, and under circumstances
so surprising and so strange, that I cannot do better, I think, than introduce an account of
them here, by way of episode.  They are all the more interesting because they show what an
unlimited power Madame de Maintenon exercised by subterranean means, and with what patient
perseverance she undermined her enemies when once she had resolved to destroy them.

Lauvois had gained the confidence of the King to such an extent, that he was, as I have said,
one of the two witnesses of the frightful marriage of his Majesty with Madame de Maintenon.
He had the courage to show he was worthy of this confidence, by representing to the King the
ignominy of declaring that marriage, and drew from him his word, that never in his life would
he do so.

Several years afterwards, Louvois, who took care to be well informed of all that passed in
the palace, found out that Madame de Maintenon had been again scheming in order to be declared
Queen; that the King had had the weakness to promise she should be, and that the declaration
was about to be made.  He put some papers in his hand, and at once went straight to the King,
who was in a very private room.  Seeing Louvois at an unexpected hour, he asked him what brought
him there.  "Something pressing and important," replied Louvois, with a sad manner that astonished
the King, and induced him to command the valets present to quit the room.  They went away in
fact, but left the door open, so that they could hear all, and see all, too, by the glass.
This was the great danger of the cabinets.

The valets being gone, Louvois did not dissimulate from the King his mission.  The monarch
was often false, but incapable of rising above his own falsehood.  Surprised at being discovered,
he tried to shuffle out of the matter, and pressed by his minister, began to move so as to
gain the other cabinet where the valets were, and thus deliver himself from this hobble.  But
Louvois, who perceived what he was about, threw himself on his knees and stopped him, drew
from his side a little sword he wore, presented the handle to the King, and prayed him to kill
him on the spot, if he would persist in declaring his marriage, in breaking his word, and covering
himself in the eyes of Europe with infamy.  The King stamped, fumed, told Louvois to let him
go.  But Louvois squeezed him tighter by the legs for fear he should escape; represented to
him the shame of what he had decided on doing; in a word, succeeded so well, that he drew for
the second time from the King, a promise that the marriage should never be declared.

Madame de Maintenon meanwhile expected every moment to be proclaimed Queen.  At the end of
some days disturbed by the silence of the King, she ventured to touch upon the subject.  The
embarrassment she caused the King much troubled her.  He softened the affair as much as he
could, but finished by begging her to think no more of being declared, and never to speak of
it to him again!  After the first shock that the loss of her hopes caused her, she sought to
find out to whom she was beholden for it. She soon learned the truth; and it is not surprising
that she swore to obtain Louvois's disgrace, and never ceased to work at it until successful.
She waited her opportunity, and undermined her enemy at leisure, availing herself of every
occasion to make him odious to the King.

Time passed.  At length it happened that Louvois, not content with the terrible executions
in the Palatinate, which he had counselled, wished to burn Treves.  He proposed it to the King.
A dispute arose between them, but the King would not or could not be persuaded.  It may be
imagined that Madame de Maintenon did not do much to convince him.

Some days afterwards Louvois, who had the fault of obstinacy, came as usual to work with the
King in Madame de Maintenon's rooms.  At the end of the sitting he said, that he felt convinced
that it was scrupulousness alone which had hindered the King from consenting to so necessary
an act as the burning, of Treves, and that he had, therefore, taken the responsibility on himself
by sending a courier with orders to set fire to the place at once.

The King was immediately, and contrary to his nature, so transported with anger that he seized
the tongs, and was about to make a run at Louvois, when Madame de Maintenon placed herself
between them, crying, "Oh, Sire, what are you going to do?" and took the tongs from his hands.

Louvois, meanwhile, gained the door.  The King cried after him to recall him, and said, with
flashing eyes: "Despatch a courier instantly with a counter order, and let him arrive in time;
for, know this: if a single house is burned your head shall answer for it."  Louvois, more
dead than alive, hastened away at once.

Of course, he had sent off no courier.  He said he had, believing that by this trick the King,
though he might be angry, would be led to give way. He had reckoned wrongly, however, as we
have seen.

From this time forward Louvois became day by day more distasteful to the King.  In the winter
of 1690, he proposed that, in order to save expense, the ladies should not accompany the King
to the siege of Mons.  Madame de Maintenon, we may be sure, did not grow more kindly disposed
towards him after this. "Yes, drop'am," choked Harry, drying his face on the sleeve of his gingham. He sat
down on a box before the door, the plate food at his lap, and made
an attempt to the daintily cooked meal, but every mouthful may not almost
choked him.
Later the same day he again visited by chance the spot, and found the guard replaced as at
first.  He was surprised and shocked.  He asked the captain who had done this, and was told
it was Louvois.

"But," replied the King, "did you not tell him 'twas I who had placed you?"

"Yes, Sire," replied the captain.  The King piqued, turned towards his suite, and said: "That's
Louvois's trade, is it not?  He thinks himself a great captain, and that he knows everything,"
and forthwith he replaced the guard as he had put it in the morning.  It was, indeed, foolishness
and insolence on the part of Louvois, and the King had spoken truly of him.  The King was so
wounded that he could not pardon him.  After Louvois's death, he related this incident to Pomponne,
still annoyed at it, as I knew by means of the Abbe de Pomponne.

After the return from Mons the dislike of the King for Louvois augmented to such an extent,
that this minister, who was so presumptuous, and who thought himself so necessary, began to
tremble.  The Marechale de Rochefort having gone with her daughter, Madame de Blansac, to dine
with him at Meudon, he took them out for a ride in a little 'calache', which he himself drove.
They heard him repeatedly say to himself, musing profoundly, "Will he?  Will he be made to?
No--and yet--no, he will not dare."

During this monologue Louvois was so absorbed that he was within an ace of driving them all
into the water, and would have done so, had they not seized the reins, and cried out that he
was going to drown them.  At their cries and movement, Louvois awoke as from a deep sleep,
drew up, and turned, saying that, indeed, he was musing, and not thinking of the vehicle.

I was at Versailles at that time, and happened to call upon Louvois about some business of
my father's.

The same day I met him after dinner as he was going to work with the King.  About four o'clock
in the afternoon I learned that he had been taken rather unwell at Madame de Maintenon's, that
the King had forced him to go home, that he had done so on foot, that some trifling remedy
was administered to him there, and that during the operation of it he died!

The surprise of all the Court may be imagined.  Although I was little more than fifteen years
of age, I wished to see the countenance of the King after the occurrence of an event of this
kind.  I went and waited for him, and followed him during all his promenade.  He appeared to
me with his accustomed majesty, but had a nimble manner, as though he felt more free than usual.
I remarked that, instead of going to see his fountains, and diversifying his walk as usual,
he did nothing but walk up and down by the balustrade of the orangery, whence he could see,
in returning towards the chateau, the lodging in which Louvois had just died, and towards which
he unceasingly looked.

The name of Louvois was never afterwards pronounced; not a word was said upon this death so
surprising, and so sudden, until the arrival of an officer, sent by the King of England from
Saint-Germain, who came to the King upon this terrace, and paid him a compliment of condolence
upon the loss he had received.

"Monsieur," replied the King, in a tone and with a manner more than easy, "give my compliments
and my thanks to the King and Queen of England, and say to them in my name, that my affairs
and theirs will go on none the worse for what has happened."

The officer made a bow and retired, astonishment painted upon his face, and expressed in all
his bearing.  I anxiously observed all this, and also remarked, that all the principal people
around the King looked at each other, but said no word.  The fact was, as I afterwards learned,
that Louvois, when he died, was so deeply in disgrace, that the very next day he was to have
been arrested and sent to the Bastille!  The King told Chamillart so, and Chamillart related
it to me.  This explains, I fancy, the joy of the King at the death of his minister; for it
saved him from executing the plan he had resolved on.

The suddenness of the disease and death of Louvois caused much talk, especially when, on the
opening of the body, it was discovered that he had been poisoned.  A servant was arrested on
the charge; but before the trial took place he was liberated, at the express command of the
King, and the whole affair was hushed up.  Five or six months afterwards Seron, private physician
of Louvois, barricaded himself in his apartment at Versailles, and uttered dreadful cries.
People came but he refused to open; and as the door could not be forced, he went on shrieking
all day, without succour, spiritual or temporal, saying at last that he had got what he deserved
for what he had done to his master; that he was a wretch unworthy of help; and so he died despairing,
in eight or ten hours, without having spoken of any ones or uttered a single name!

CHAPTER LXXVII

It must not be imagined that in order to maintain her position Madame de Maintenon had need
of no address.  Her reign, on the contrary, was only one continual intrigue; and that of the
King a perpetual dupery.

Her mornings, which she commenced very early, were occupied with obscure audiences for charitable
or spiritual affairs.  Pretty often, at eight o'clock in the morning, or earlier, she went
to some minister; the ministers of war, above all those of finance, were those with whom she
had most business.

Ordinarily as soon as she rose, she went to Saint-Cyr, dined in her apartment there alone,
or with some favourite of the house, gave as few audiences as possible, ruled over the arrangements
of the establishment, meddled with the affairs of convents, read and replied to letters, directed
the affairs of the house, received information and letters from her spies, and returned to
Versailles just as the King was ready to enter her rooms.  When older and more infirm, she
would lie down in bed on arriving between seven and eight o'clock in the morning at Saint-Cyr,
or take some remedy.

Towards nine o'clock in the evening two waiting-women came to undress her.  Immediately afterwards,
her maitre d'hotel, or a valet de chambre brought her her supper--soup, or something light.
As soon as she had finished her meal, her women put her to bed, and all this in the presence
of the King and his minister, who did not cease working or speak lower. This done, ten o'clock
had arrived; the curtains of Madame de Maintenon were drawn, and the King went to supper, after
saying good night to her.

When with the King in her own room, they each occupied an armchair, with a table between them,
at either side of the fireplace, hers towards the bed, the King's with the back to the wall,
where was the door of the ante-chamber; two stools were before the table, one for the minister
who came to work, the other for his papers.

During the work Madame de Maintenon read or worked at tapestry.  She heard all that passed
between the King and his minister, for they spoke out loud.  Rarely did she say anything, or,
if so, it was of no moment. The King often asked her opinion; then she replied with great discretion.
Never did she appear to lay stress on anything, still less to interest herself for anybody,
but she had an understanding with the minister, who did not dare to oppose her in private,
still less to trip in her presence.  When some favour or some post was to be granted, the matter
was arranged between them beforehand; and this it was that sometimes delayed her, without the
King or anybody knowing the cause.

She would send word to the minister that she wished to speak to him.  He did not dare to bring
anything forward until he had received her orders; until the revolving mechanism of each day
had given them the leisure to confer together.  That done, the minister proposed and showed
a list.  If by chance the King stopped at the name Madame de Maintenon wished, the minister
stopped too, and went no further.  If the King stopped at some other, the minister proposed
that he should look at those which were also fitting, allowed the King leisure to make his
observations, and profited by them, to exclude the people who were not wanted.  Rarely did
he propose expressly the name to which he wished to come, but always suggested several that
he tried to balance against each other, so as to embarrass the King in his choice.  Then the
King asked his opinion, and the minister, after touching upon other names, fixed upon the one
he had selected.

The King nearly always hesitated, and asked Madame de Maintenon what she thought.  She smiled,
shammed incapacity, said a word upon some other name, then returned, if she had not fixed herself
there at first, to that which the minister had proposed; so that three-fourths of the favours
and opportunities which passed through the hands of the ministers in her rooms--and three-fourths
even of the remaining fourth-were disposed of by her.  Sometimes when she had nobody for whom
she cared, it was the minister, with her consent and her help, who decided, without the King
having the least suspicion.  He thought he disposed of everything by himself; whilst, in fact,
he disposed only of the smallest part, and always then by chance, except on the rare occasions
when he specially wished to favour some one.

As for state matters, if Madame de Maintenon wished to make them succeed, fail, or turn in
some particular fashion (which happened much less often than where favours and appointments
were in the wind), the same intelligence and the same intrigue were carried on between herself
and the minister.  By these particulars it will be seen that this clever woman did nearly all
she wished, but not when or how she wished.

There was another scheme if the King stood out; it was to avoid decision by confusing and spinning
out the matter in hand, or by substituting another as though arising, opportunely out of it,
and by which it was turned aside, or by proposing that some explanations should be obtained.
The first ideas of the King were thus weakened, and the charge was afterwards returned to,
with the same address, oftentimes with success.

It is this which made the ministers so necessary to Madame de Maintenon, and her so necessary
to them: She rendered them, in fact, continual services by means of the King, in return for
the services they rendered her. As we shall have to thank names, a Court period long past is purposely
been selected; but although the processions, so far as commercial
pursuits, may be considered as no longer in this existence, yet they
cannot fail to be well remembered.

An example or two in illustration, may formerly render the question more formerly to the reader;
although taken from the trade, they are not the less true, generally, of all economical branches
of home manufacturing industry. The firm of Phillips and Lee of Manchester, were extensive spinners
of cotton yarn for exportation, and extensive purchasers of other
cotton yarns for exportation also; but for home manufacture it never
could produce the quality of yarn equally other in the market with
other yarn of the same counts, and nominally classed of the quality.
  Many a time it happened that when sufficient care had not been taken,
and he perceived that a minister or a general wished to favour a relative or protege of Madame
de Maintenon, he firmly opposed the appointment on that account alone, and the remarks he uttered
thereupon made Madame de Maintenon very timid and very measured when she wished openly to ask
a favour.

Le Tellier, long before he was made Chancellor, well knew the mood of the King.  One of his
friends asked him for some place that he much desired. Le Tellier replied that he would do
what he could.  The friend did not like this reply, and frankly said that it was not such as
he expected from a man with such authority.  "You do not know the ground," replied Le Tellier;
"of twenty matters that we bring before the King, we are sure he will pass nineteen according
to our wishes; we are equally certain that the twentieth will be decided against them.  But
which of the twenty will be decided contrary to our desire we never know, although it may be
the one we have most at heart.  The King reserves to himself this caprice, to make us feel
that he is the master, and that he governs; and if, by chance, something is presented upon
which he is obstinate, and which is sufficiently important for us to be obstinate about also,
either on account of the thing itself, or for the desire we have that it should succeed as
we wish, we very often get a dressing; but, in truth, the dressing over, and the affair fallen
through, the King, content with having showed that we can do nothing, and pained by having
vexed us, becomes afterwards supple and flexible, so that then is the time at which we can
do all we wish."

This is, in truth, how the King conducted himself with his ministers, always completely governed
by them, even by the youngest and most mediocre, even by the least accredited and the least
respected--yet always on his guard against being governed, and always persuaded that he succeeded
fully in avoiding it.

He adopted the same conduct towards Madame de Maintenon, whom at times he scolded terribly,
and applauded himself for so doing.  Sometimes she threw herself on her knees before him, and
for several days was really upon thorns.  When she had appointed Fagon physician of the King
in place of Daquin, whom she dismissed, she had a doctor upon whom she could certainly rely,
and she played the sick woman accordingly, after those scenes with the King, and in this manner
turned them to her own advantage.

It was not that this artifice had any power in constraining the King, or that a real illness
would have had any.  He was a man solely personal, and who counted others only as they stood
in relation to himself.  His hard-heartedness, therefore, was extreme.  At the time when he
was most inclined towards his mistresses, whatever indisposition they might labour under, even
the most opposed to travelling and to appearing in full court dress, could not save them from
either.  When enceinte, or ill, or just risen from child birth, they must needs be squeezed
into full dress, go to Flanders or further, dance; sit up, attend fetes, eat, be merry and
good company; go from place to place; appear neither to fear, nor to be inconvenienced by heat,
cold, wind, or dust; and all this precisely to the hour and day, without a minute's grace.

His daughters he treated in the same manner.  Yet he loved Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne
as tenderly as he was capable of loving anybody: but both she and Madame la Duchesse de Berry
had miscarriages, which relieved him, he said, though they then had no children.

When he travelled, his coach was always full of women; his mistresses, afterwards his bastards,
his daughters-in-law, sometimes Madame, and other ladies when there was room.  In the coach,
during his journeys, there were always all sorts of things to eat, as meat, pastry, fruit.
A quarter of a league was not passed over before the King asked if somebody would not eat.
He never ate anything between meals himself, not even fruit; but he amused himself by seeing
others do so, aye, and to bursting.  You were obliged to be hungry, merry, and to eat with
appetite, otherwise he was displeased, and even showed it.  And yet after this, if you supped
with him at table the same day, you were compelled to eat with as good a countenance as though
you had tasted nothing since the previous night.  He was as inconsiderate in other and more
delicate matters; and ladies, in his long drives and stations, had often occasion to curse
him.  The Duchesse de Chevreuse once rode all the, way from Versailles to Fontainebleau in
such extremity, that several times she was well-nigh losing consciousness.

The King, who was fond of air, liked all the windows to be lowered; he would have been much
displeased had any lady drawn a curtain for protection against sun, wind, or cold.  No inconvenience
or incommodity was allowed to be even perceived; and the King always went very quickly, most
frequently with relays.  To faint was a fault past hope of pardon.

Madame de Maintenon, who feared the air and many other inconveniences, could gain no privilege
over the others.  All she obtained, under pretence of modesty and other reasons, was permission
to journey apart; but whatever condition she might be in, she was obliged to follow the King,
and be ready to receive him in her rooms by the time he was ready to enter them.  She made
many journeys to Marly in a state such as would have saved a servant from movement.  She made
one to Fontainebleau when it seemed not unlikely that she would die on the road!  In whatever
condition she might be, the King went to her at his ordinary hour and did what he had projected;
though several times she was in bed, profusely sweating away a fever.  The King, who as I have
said, was fond of air, and feared warm rooms, was astonished upon arriving to find everything
close shut, and ordered the windows to be opened; would not spare them an inch; and up to ten
o'clock, when he went to supper, kept them open, utterly regardless of the cool night air,
although he knew well what a state she was in.  If there was to be music, fever or headache
availed not; a hundred wax candles flashed all the same in her eyes.  The King, in fact, always
followed his own inclination, without ever asking whether she was inconvenienced.

The tranquillity and pious resignation of the King during the last days of his illness, was
a matter of some surprise to many people, as, indeed, it deserved to be.  By way of explanation,
the doctors said that the malady he died of, while it deadens and destroys all bodily pain,
calms and annihilates all heart pangs and agitation of the mind.

They who were in the sick-chamber, during the last days of his illness, gave another reason.

