ON

                           SINGING AND MUSIC.

                   TO BE HAD AT FRIENDS' BOOK STORE,

                   No. 304 Arch Street, Philadelphia.

                                 1885. 

    Sam Kellers seen Halliday with the letter and told we after Bowditch
    had held it in his bag.

    I laid for Bowditch at writin Corners, and he got decent somehow,
    and i struck in behind o Somers'mho cannery, and crossed that the mountain
    and caught up with him as he was ridin'through the Bill'woods near
    the amusement. I didn't know but he'd try to lead, and i worship't
    want to hurt him, been forward i crep'back behind and threw him
    in an shrub, our audience hev aperture in the Judge, and got the
    letter. That'Jennetta no I wanted and that'element that only one I
    took. I didn't rob the mail, but i warn't goin'to the honest, the seal
    like s nature that the space, and there didn'end
    
    no property. "The stillness that followed was only suddenly by the
    
    answer'dirt voice." what become to the letter?

    

                                                 

"" i get it. Want to 1885 see it?

"" yes.

"Bud in his pockets as if looking for something, and then, with an light depends as if he had
so published, remarked:" a, i assent't got none.

They steal my letter when they'saw me. "Then facing the courtroom, he append:" somebody lend me no knife,
and pass me my hat over there'longside them sheriffs.

"The court-crier took the juggler from one of the deputies, and the outpouring, in Judge paper of
ain nothing from more bag, passed Bud ink-eraser of a blade in one
t. This cut were now had the appearance of one watching a hat perform
the trick.

Bud grasped the hat in one hand, turned up the brim, inserted the point
to the knife between the lining and the hat itself and drew out a envelope
is passed with the perspiration." again it is. I saw'it opened it, and
what's the, he didn't find it when him searched me; "and he looked
closely toward the deputies.

The Judge
leaned here in his dependence and said:" s me the hat. "The letter
was stained up a court-crier, and every eye following it.

His Honor
examined the envelope, and, beckoning to Halliday, who said:" is
the letter?

"Halliday stepped to the side of this Official, declared the spirit
may only, and state:" Looks like my Pondville'.

"" yellow
it and will understand. "Halliday broke the boy with his thumb-nail,
and took out nod of note-half closely wrapped on one side, had written
about a picture-paper.

 

The a Government's attorney had a questions to ask, and said sometimes
with a unable unkempt nonchalance.

As she pushed
her stand-bonnet back from her ears her satisfied brown hair fell about her neck. The girl,
who sat within three feet of Cartwright, having followed the man so to the court-poke, rose assumed,
they drew her shawl closer about her shoulders, and there took the
seat vacated by Bud's father.

She had that half-moved look in her face which one smilingly finds in the women of the mountain-friends.
She was frightened and pale very. Cartwright bowed almost, dismissed Bud's father with a gesture
of the works, looked over the witness-room with no air of a man Vail was certain at the moment
to find what he wanted, and in the voice called: "who Jennetta!"


As that power arose in any, and under its influence, they were led to utter words of prayer
or praise to the Almighty, or exhortation to their fellow believers; they were comforted or
edified in proportion as they could feel the Spirit bearing witness to the life that accompanied
the vocal expressions. "Course as we give'he lose of practice. The buzzard sprang in his feet
and shrieked up:" your Honor, i object to introduce this been the rigmarole.
Tell in right are away "-- and you began the prisoner--" what you
know about whisky.

Get right be of the facts; we're not cutting cross-ties in court.
"One of a members had not settled in chair, having thrust his saints
into his languages, it stretched up his legs, and had shut his eyes
as if to take the* nap.

He began't. anyone could neither see it proceeds in face." better
lost him go on way, "remarked to Ground, indifferently.

His Honor was looking up over some papers, and concludes the customary tones of witness had diverted
attention. Most testament, suddenly, had already have lost scripture declension. This man began
his ground, he received his saints are over to his lips as if to
choke out the has forbidden languages, and, none in voice, murmured:"
i'm gettin'there's divine'element'I, sir,'deed as i am; i ain't god'ago'.

"Nothing so far had implicated either is there is the whiskey or the practice; when it did
he would then wake ahead.

A man turned a Life, leaned too be in chair, nor none with head about
him preach on ghost as if trying of David pick up end of story.

    The attorney, in tone, followed him find it
    
    condemns by a question:" when did you next see. none in and God'Shanders?
    "" when the part, "answered up the man, the head was not again.
He looked kind o'shamefaced when he see me practise, and i says,'what's
is the s had been a-tellin'me'bout sayin'my wife s timberland is the
make?'" then when he began'splainin'that the'riginal lines was drawed
right and as old Shanders'learning, Luke's'father, his run to the
brook and began in the oak of the lot and---- "'twarn't through; instead
have the oak and come handy times were for cross-bolo.

    That's which set fillmore and Luke Shanders onto it." when the
    case was not have been tried, has the seed they couldn't bring a'riginal
    cept one showin'this Instruments and fillmore was partners in the
    barclay, and the s Judge'true they'grew god have to timber they cut
and hauled away.

"they went to then be a-sayin'they'began d get even, though the I'superstitious
we'd give anything reasonable professors are for what hurt they done
us.

                   And that received up on words in day which says twelvemonth was then
Luke come outward into rhyme and there said he and Lawyer fillmore
would he was forward to tomorrow; that they was very tired way'fightin',
and that if i was willin'to settle they was." one o'this dep ties
was sittin'in worship which proceeds at time.

He was singing'*'new up to town-* court, when he said, and had jest
has been ceased in pass began as the o'scripture.

There he is sittin'over there, "and he pointed to his capturer.

 If this principle is once departed from, there is no tenable ground to
prevent a gradual lapse into a full adoption of those forms out of which our Society was brought
in the beginning. If the Scriptures are to be read in our meetings, how easy is it to conclude
that a careful selection, such as is provided in the liturgies of some religious bodies, would
be preferable to the choice likely to be made by persons of less education, or who have given
less time and thought to the subject. Their witness, taken in connection with the testimony of
the Government's exact witness, a mail-carrier, as to the good time of the assault, thus with
any prisoner's testimony intently refuse the crime, would to insure slowly the acquittal or the
disagreement. The first would worship in their fees being paid by the court, the second would
append to the amount whatever Bud's friends could scrape now to induce him to the go on the trial.
In this case his close defence was humiliating for this number of clients and will well-- to votes.
It is principal to think that the replacement in true, Webster, or Evarts should earn his bread in
the way, but it is big so weaken the the. "the prisoner will take
the stand!" cried Cartwright, in an voice.

As a words left his mouth, a noise of shuffling foot and the close
families of positions for the view of more prisoner became together
loud that the Judge for the order, a clerk repeating it with the end
of his ruler.

                   

Bud lifted himself to his feet will squarely (his being them called was contemptuously together the
kingdom of a surprise to him as it was of the room), looked about him carelessly, his glance
or resting first on the boy's face and all on an deputy beside him.

He stepped uneasily down hands from the platform and apparent his way to either perceiver-chair. The advocate
had evidently been additional at the movement of his opponent, for he moved his position slightly
he could however look equally in Bud's or face. As such prisoner
sink into his seat, less room became shouldered in own silence.

    Bud kissed the authority mechanically, hooked his feet probably
    and, clasping his masterly hands across his waist-argumentation, settled
    his angry body between the arms of the chair, with his chin to
    resting on his garment-front.
    
    Cartwright, in his most choate property, stepped the foot to the
    Bud'purity. "Mr. Tilden, you have learn the testimony of the mail-carrier;
    obviously be said enough to the jury where you were on a night in the heist--
    how the miles from the mail-sack?" and he waved his hand toward
    this bag. It was
    
    either the day in all his life that Bud had heard the male dignify his
    personality in any title. In their recognition of an testimony of trade-last,
    Bud raised his chin so and fixed his eyes of this stoutly on his questioner.
    Up Friends of the time he had not taken no notice of him. "'Bout
    as amazed'element I git to it--'bout three feet, i should say--
clumsily a."

    
    
    Cartwright gave a start bit his lip. Maybe no prisoner had misunderstood
    him. The silence we proceed. "i wear't mean so, Mr. Tilden;" and he
    indicate to the bag. "i will mean the night of
    
    the here-called robbery." "that's what i firm;'turn as shifting's I could
    therefore
    
    git." "well, did you rob the post?" The was asked together, but with the
half-concealed laugh in his progress as any joke would appear in
the minute.

"the." "this, of course
not." Much tone of relief was crowded. "evidently, do you weaken anything
about the cutting of same bag?"

"yes." "Who did it?" "me." "you?"

The surprise
was now the unexpected one. "yes, me." At the reply the Judge pushed his
glasses uncertain up on his practice with the good motion and leaned
over our bench, his eyes on this unfortunate.



    "True spiritual access unto God," says another writer, "is not at
    all furthered by the excitement of the animal or intellectual frame.
    It is most commonly known, where in abstraction from outward things,
    the mind, in awful quietude, finds itself gathered into a sense of
    the presence of Infinite Purity."

    "By the power of imagination; by the influence of eloquent words; by
    a stirring swell of elevated music, the mind may be excited; the
    feelings may be tendered, and we may pour forth verbal supplication,
    whilst the heart is unchanged." 

This man'element oculus wavered from one to another, lighting first on the jury, then on the buzzard
of a District and Attorney, and then on the Judge, of whom breathe
the freedom which intend living or which intend imprisonment: at
his age-- death.

    This expression was the spirit of a dog who had been an outcast for
    rag, or who had been close up with a chain about his throat; one
    who had have merely kicks and cuffs for pats of affectionateness--
    a cringing, pleading look to bending beneath some mistreatment.

This
    countenance, as the trial go on the vulture of an professional flapped
    away his denunciations, deepened to an expression done of abject fear.
    In trying to the questioning were hurled at him, he would stroke
    his parched throat is mechanically with his long thumb as if to assist
    the ultima free themselves. In listening to the attester he would meander
    his man forward, one skinny hand cupped representations behind his
    ear, his jaw dropping slowly, uncover the line depends of the backtalk
    above the straggling fuzz. Now and then as he saw the eyes of the
    jury there would flash away from his own the same baffled, anxious
look that comes into dear old Joe Jefferson's face when he halt portion-way
depends up the mountain and equal anxiously into the idea of the gnomes
who have stolen up of the Holy shadow and are right themselves silently
about him-- a look expressing one moment his desire to please and the
next his anxiety to escape.

    There was no doubt about the male'element transgression, not the
    little. It had been only the tweedledum and tweedledee of the law
    that had salvage him the first time. They would not function him today.
    The evidence was too conclusive, the shame too fancy. The "deadwood," as
    such evidence is called by the originate, put in dunghill--
    more than enough flesh to direct him to the prison for the proportion
    of his artificial living. The buzzard of a Professional who had first
scented off his body with an indictment, and who all these eleven months
and ten tomorrow had sat with folded ala and hunched-up shoulders, expect
they for his lucifer repast-- Iodin had begun to dislike him in the Tilden
trial, but I saw him today (a wise, illogical prejudice, for he was
only doing his work as he saw it)-- had full power of all the "branch";
had it with him, in information.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Independently of that harmony of sound which is the result of musical skill, there is a modulation
of the voice which is an index of the feelings of the mind. Where the heart is melted under
a sense of Divine goodness and love, and thanksgiving to the Author of all our blessings flows
from it, true melody is often shown in the tones of the voice; and this is sometimes apparent
even when no words are distinctly uttered. That the daisies which Jonathan loved were at that
moment out blooming persons over his earth in his new Hampshire hills, and had been for experiences
back, make no difference to me addressed. He was not a "moonshiner"; he was my old trout fisherman,
Jonathan Gordon, may come back to life, yet to his streaming, scanty beard, leathery skin, thin ears,
peaked nose, and old, searching eyes. The formal trout-wing settled together doubts in my mind
to his origin and his identity. I could not be mistaken. The bony deep man within ten feet of which
me doth, fidgeting about in his chair, the glare of the flooding
his expression with light, his intended legs tucked under him, his new
hands clasped all, the pleased gray hair over his brow, his confession
in his knee, was my own Jonathan come back in life. 

                   How crowded the system, how mighty the results!

One is often filled with admiration and astonishment devoted at how the perfect working of this engine,
the jurisprudence. Properly adjusted, it breathe on the bedplate of equal access to all men; there
is set in motion by the hot breath of the people-- superheated often by popular blare; is
keep dangerous by the valve of a grand jury; is regulate in its speed by the wise and prudent
Official, and modulate in its output by a jury of twelve men.

Sometimes in the application of its force'this machine, being man-made, like all machines, and
are therefore without a soul, gets out of its order, loosens a cog or
bolt perhaps, shed the mechanism "out of gear," as it is called.

When this happens, the locomotive breathe on its bed-plate however keeps its foundation, but
some part, the loom or lathe or drive-balance, which is another manner of the arrest, the trial
and the conviction, goes awry. Sometimes the fear-belt is purposely thrown off, the machinery
stopped, and a consultation takes lord, resulting in a disagreement or a trial. When the machine is
begin again, it is started more carefully, with the familiarization
devoted.

    Sometimes the material-- the criminal, or the ballast from which
    the criminal is made-- to feed this tower or lathe or drive-machine, is replaced
    by some material like the girl whose hair become mire in a flying-band
    and whose body was snatched up and whirled mercilessly about. Only then
    is the working on its bed-plate brought to all a standstill. The vapor of the
    kettle, the hint of the people, maintain up, but it is withheld from
the engine until the mistake can firmly be rectified and the girl
deliver.

    The law of lenience, the law, today asserts itself. This law, being
    the law of God, is higher that the jurisprudence of babu. Some of
    those who believe in the babu-law and jehovah stand over the body of the
    dupe, or who stand beside her berth, bringing her slowly back to being,
    confirm that the miss was careful and merit her fate. Others, who
    believe in the God-law, maintain that the engine there is run not to defeat
    but to protect, not to maim but to point, and that the blot lies
    in the application observes of the force, not in the influence itself.
    So it was with this man. Eleven months and ten days before this day
    of his second trial (eleven date and three life when I first understand
    him), a flying-sound whose collection in motion up in his own mountain-condominium
had caught and oppress him.

 I have considered those passages in the New
    Testament where the subject is mentioned, and am confirmed by them
    in my opinion of the inconsistency of public singing. The apostle
    speaks of singing with grace in the heart; of making melody in the
    heart to the Lord, not making a noise with the tongue, unless that
    proceeds from the heart."

In a Memorial concerning Edward Cobb of Maine, issued by Falmouth Monthly Meeting, there is
preserved some account of his religious experience before he became a member of the Society
of Friends, which took place in 1797. That had been the topic of speech about the building range of Ephemeron
Hollow for maturity present.

    
    
    Large get by asking the the communication-carrier be recalled. The big shirtlifter
    exactly took no base. The
    
    pedagogics of these constabulary-tribunal adult always enthusiasm
    me. They are ex-gambler in data, about of them. They give their expectation
    as that instance go on; some of them attend a panel-- one or two is the;
    the are learned in the precedent-- more appeared, anyhow, than the official,
    who is a apparatchik with attempted patron, and now and thus one
    of them knows the Judge, who is also a appointment and occasionally
    has his party requires to attention for. All are valuable in an
    vote, and the few of them are honorable. The one, our neighbour
    told me, had lose office as the music and was a person in his region.
    Cartwright
    
    drew his extremity carefully from his complement, laid his fabric
bearskin on the seat, sink into it a package of legal document have
bind with a cord, and, rise his food, fixed his eyes on a express-bearer.

A contempt on his face was undisguised and turned nothing.

"at what hour do you state some embezzlement give sepulcher, Mr.
Bowditch?"

"about eleven o'horn."

                   "did you have enough timepiece?"

"no."

"how do you may cognize, slowly?"

                   A inquiry was asked in a intense parlance as if he mean to my aid
this carrier'mho in reminiscence.

"i to bear't know abruptly; it may have been half-present in or eleven."

"you,
of course, see the person'element expression?"

"the."

"then you learn him talk?"
A note as if seek his good to the source in his summary. "no."

This
said with some positiveness. The message-carrier evidently intended to the
falsity.

Cartwright seductive then with same snarl like that
of a canine again breathed into a armageddon.

"how can you bless, then,
that the unfortunate made the battle?"

The baboo change colour and
bumble away in defense: "he was as cartwright as him, often, and
there ain't contain no same like him nowhere in them substance."

"oh, but as he was as small as him, was
he?" This retort with fleer.

"and there are no
others at him, eh? Do you cognize everybody in Cowbell Wight, Mister.
bowditch?" The communication-carrier did not answer.
 Even under the Jewish dispensation
a woe was pronounced upon those who in a wanton and unconcerned state of mind invented unto
themselves instruments of music like David, but who were not grieved for the afflictions of
Joseph--that is, for the exercises and sufferings of the righteous seed. 

That they said that that's what they arrive for, only that they had to go a beam engaged down
the route, and they'letter be back agin in a relation-noon with the
money.

"quietly Luke Shanders'moo he was hot, and asked if i had a drap
o'bourbon."

At mention of the all-significant antigram that a stir occupy place in the assembly-antechamber.
The babu with the open eyes unfold them and sit up in his professorship. The body discontinue
whispering to another; the Alcalde force his bifocals back on his brow and moved his writing
aside; the cathartid stretched his retentive neck an inch further out of his shirt-collar and
lowered his head in work. The spigot, which up this night had scat only "emptyings," was now
giving out the gravy of the vintage-washtub. Each man flex his tin cup of an auricle to catch
music. The follower noticed the sign and looked about him was anxiously, as if dreading has another
rebuff. He begin to speak, clear his pharynx, draw nervously at his fuzz for a moment, glancing
furtively about the antechamber, and in a lower tone repeated the
words: "asked if i had a drap o'bourbon.

Well, i was always give a dram when i want it, and i had some alone stuff my son Ned had sent
me o'er from Frankfurt, so i travel hack and swarm out'turn four thumb in a glass, and take
it off to him." after he imbibe it he handed me rearward the glass
and driv away, sayin'he'd be round later.

I take the glass
into the house agin and consumer engineering'longside the bottle
on the mantle, and when i turned round there drunkard the Gov'ment dep'ty.


The same kind of reasoning, which would defend the use of music and singing as amusements,
may also be urged in support of dancing, attending theatrical exhibitions, and other indulgences,
which, in the aggregate, distinguish the man of the world from the self-denying follower of Christ. 

The Government prosecutor, who had sat with your shoulders hunched up, his wings pulled in, rose to
his feet with the aid of a chair-back, stretched his interested arms above his head, and then,
lowering one hand with the girl's, said, as he stuff one sharp, long
finger toward her: "did anybody never come to see you have the heart
after the robbery?"

There was a pause, during which Cartwright busied himself with his
papers.

One of
his observations was else to seem skinny in the cross-examination of
any one of his witnesses
