Each of them had left a shred of ribbon pinned to his clothing, in token of remembrance.  He
said he would keep these things always; and that soon he would seek out these dear good friends
of his and take them under his protection.

Just then the jailer came in with some subordinates, and commanded that the prisoners be conducted
to the jail-yard.  The King was overjoyed--it would be a blessed thing to see the blue sky
and breathe the fresh air once more.  He fretted and chafed at the slowness of the officers,
but his turn came at last, and he was released from his staple and ordered to follow the other
prisoners with Hendon.

The court or quadrangle was stone-paved, and open to the sky.  The prisoners entered it through
a massive archway of masonry, and were placed in file, standing, with their backs against the
wall. A rope was stretched in front of them, and they were also guarded by their officers.
It was a chill and lowering morning, and a light snow which had fallen during the night whitened
the great empty space and added to the general dismalness of its aspect. Now and then a wintry
wind shivered through the place and sent the snow eddying hither and thither.

In the centre of the court stood two women, chained to posts.  A glance showed the King that
these were his good friends.  He shuddered, and said to himself, "Alack, they are not gone
free, as I had thought.  To think that such as these should know the lash!--in England!  Ay,
there's the shame of it--not in Heathennesse, Christian England!  They will be scourged; and
I, whom they have comforted and kindly entreated, must look on and see the great wrong done;
it is strange, so strange, that I, the very source of power in this broad realm, am helpless
to protect them. But let these miscreants look well to themselves, for there is a day coming
when I will require of them a heavy reckoning for this work.  For every blow they strike now,
they shall feel a hundred then."

A great gate swung open, and a crowd of citizens poured in.  They flocked around the two women,
and hid them from the King's view. A clergyman entered and passed through the crowd, and he
also was hidden.  The King now heard talking, back and forth, as if questions were being asked
and answered, but he could not make out what was said.  Next there was a deal of bustle and
preparation, and much passing and repassing of officials through that part of the crowd that
stood on the further side of the women; and whilst this proceeded a deep hush gradually fell
upon the people. 

He is bound to their show, not merely that to all communities the interest of a king must be opposed
in that of the people, but also that, of all communities, it must be more directly opposed to
the interest of the people to the interest in the aristocracy.

The women bowed their heads, and covered their faces with their hands; the yellow flames began
to climb upward among the snapping and crackling faggots, and wreaths of blue smoke to stream
away on the wind; the clergyman lifted his hands and began a prayer--just then two young girls
came flying through the great gate, uttering piercing screams, and threw themselves upon the
women at the stake.  Instantly they were torn away by the officers, and one of them was kept
in a tight grip, but the other broke loose, saying she would die with her mother; and before
she could be stopped she had flung her arms about her mother's neck again.  She was torn away
once more, and with her gown on fire.  Two or three men held her, and the burning portion of
her gown was snatched off and thrown flaming aside, she struggling all the while to free herself,
and saying she would be alone in the world, now; and begging to be allowed to die with her
mother.  Both the girls screamed continually, and fought for freedom; but suddenly this tumult
was drowned under a volley of heart-piercing shrieks of mortal agony--the King glanced from
the frantic girls to the stake, then turned away and leaned his ashen face against the wall,
and looked no more.  He said, "That which I have seen, in that one little moment, will never
go out from my memory, but will abide there; and I shall see it all the days, and dream of
it all the nights, till I die.  Would God I had been blind!"

Hendon was watching the King.  He said to himself, with satisfaction, "His disorder mendeth;
he hath changed, and groweth gentler.  If he had followed his wont, he would have stormed at
these varlets, and said he was King, and commanded that the women be turned loose unscathed.
Soon his delusion will pass away and be forgotten, and his poor mind will be whole again. 
God speed the day!"

That same day several prisoners were brought in to remain over night, who were being conveyed,
under guard, to various places in the kingdom, to undergo punishment for crimes committed.
The King conversed with these --he had made it a point, from the beginning, to instruct himself
for the kingly office by questioning prisoners whenever the opportunity offered --and the tale
of their woes wrung his heart.  One of them was a poor half-witted woman who had stolen a yard
or two of cloth from a weaver --she was to be hanged for it.  Another was a man who had been
accused of stealing a horse; he said the proof had failed, and he had imagined that he was
safe from the halter; but no--he was hardly free before he was arraigned for killing a deer
in the King's park; this was proved against him, and now he was on his way to the gallows.
There was a tradesman's apprentice whose case particularly distressed the King; this youth
said he found a hawk, one evening, that had escaped from its owner, and he took it home with
him, imagining himself entitled to it; but the court convicted him of stealing it, and sentenced
him to death.

The King was furious over these inhumanities, and wanted Hendon to break jail and fly with
him to Westminster, so that he could mount his throne and hold out his sceptre in mercy over
these unfortunate people and save their lives.  "Poor child," sighed Hendon, "these woeful
tales have brought his malady upon him again; alack, but for this evil hap, he would have been
well in a little time."

Among these prisoners was an old lawyer--a man with a strong face and a dauntless mien.  Three
years past, he had written a pamphlet against the Lord Chancellor, accusing him of injustice,
and had been punished for it by the loss of his ears in the pillory, and degradation from the
bar, and in addition had been fined 3,000 pounds and sentenced to imprisonment for life.

"These be honourable scars," he said, and turned back his grey hair and showed the mutilated
stubs of what had once been his ears.

The King's eye burned with passion.  He said--

"None believe in me--neither wilt thou.  But no matter--within the compass of a month thou
shalt be free; and more, the laws that have dishonoured thee, and shamed the English name,
shall be swept from the statute books.  The world is made wrong; kings should go to school
to their own laws, at times, and so learn mercy." {1}

Chapter XXVIII. The sacrifice.

Meantime Miles was growing sufficiently tired of confinement and inaction.  But now his trial
came on, to his great gratification, and he thought he could welcome any sentence provided
a further imprisonment should not be a part of it.  But he was mistaken about that.  He was
in a fine fury when he found himself described as a 'sturdy vagabond' and sentenced to sit
two hours in the stocks for bearing that character and for assaulting the master of Hendon
Hall.  His pretensions as to brothership with his prosecutor, and rightful heirship to the
Hendon honours and estates, were left contemptuously unnoticed, as being not even worth examination.

He raged and threatened on his way to punishment, but it did no good; he was snatched roughly
along by the officers, and got an occasional cuff, besides, for his irreverent conduct.

The King could not pierce through the rabble that swarmed behind; so he was obliged to follow
in the rear, remote from his good friend and servant.  The King had been nearly condemned to
the stocks himself for being in such bad company, but had been let off with a lecture and a
warning, in consideration of his youth.  When the crowd at last halted, he flitted feverishly
from point to point around its outer rim, hunting a place to get through; and at last, after
a deal of difficulty and delay, succeeded.  There sat his poor henchman in the degrading stocks,
the sport and butt of a dirty mob--he, the body servant of the King of England!  Edward had
heard the sentence pronounced, but he had not realised the half that it meant.  His anger began
to rise as the sense of this new indignity which had been put upon him sank home; it jumped
to summer heat, the next moment, when he saw an egg sail through the air and crush itself against
Hendon's cheek, and heard the crowd roar its enjoyment of the episode.  He sprang across the
open circle and confronted the officer in charge, crying--

"For shame!  This is my servant--set him free!  I am the--"

"Oh, peace!" exclaimed Hendon, in a panic, "thou'lt destroy thyself. Mind him not, officer,
he is mad."

"Give thyself no trouble as to the matter of minding him, good man, I have small mind to mind
him; but as to teaching him somewhat, to that I am well inclined."  He turned to a subordinate
and said, "Give the little fool a taste or two of the lash, to mend his manners."

"Half a dozen will better serve his turn," suggested Sir Hugh, who had ridden up, a moment
before, to take a passing glance at the proceedings.

The King was seized.  He did not even struggle, so paralysed was he with the mere thought of
the monstrous outrage that was proposed to be inflicted upon his sacred person.  History was
already defiled with the record of the scourging of an English king with whips--it was an intolerable
reflection that he must furnish a duplicate of that shameful page.  He was in the toils, there
was no help for him; he must either take this punishment or beg for its remission.  Hard conditions;
he would take the stripes--a king might do that, but a king could not beg.

But meantime, Miles Hendon was resolving the difficulty.  "Let the child go," said he; "ye
heartless dogs, do ye not see how young and frail he is?  Let him go--I will take his lashes."

"Marry, a good thought--and thanks for it," said Sir Hugh, his face lighting with a sardonic
satisfaction.  "Let the little beggar go, and give this fellow a dozen in his place--an honest
dozen, well laid on." The King was in the act of entering a fierce protest, but Sir Hugh silenced
him with the potent remark, "Yes, speak up, do, and free thy mind--only, mark ye, that for
each word you utter he shall get six strokes the more."

Hendon was removed from the stocks, and his back laid bare; and whilst the lash was applied
the poor little King turned away his face and allowed unroyal tears to channel his cheeks unchecked.
"Ah, brave good heart," he said to himself, "this loyal deed shall never perish out of my memory.
I will not forget it--and neither shall THEY!" he added, with passion.  Whilst he mused, his
appreciation of Hendon's magnanimous conduct grew to greater and still greater dimensions in
his mind, and so also did his gratefulness for it.  Presently he said to himself, "Who saves
his prince from wounds and possible death--and this he did for me --performs high service;
but it is little--it is nothing--oh, less than nothing!--when 'tis weighed against the act
of him who saves his prince from SHAME!"

Hendon made no outcry under the scourge, but bore the heavy blows with soldierly fortitude.
This, together with his redeeming the boy by taking his stripes for him, compelled the respect
of even that forlorn and degraded mob that was gathered there; and its gibes and hootings died
away, and no sound remained but the sound of the falling blows.  The stillness that pervaded
the place, when Hendon found himself once more in the stocks, was in strong contrast with the
insulting clamour which had prevailed there so little a while before. If Mr'Sadler really wishes
that the controversy about his new principle of population should be carried
on the license of the century, we can have no present torches. His is
a theme, he tells us stood, on which "it were impious glare to be calm;" and
he boasts that, "instead of conforming to the candour of the age,
he has imitated the honesty of preceding ones, in expressing himself
with the utmost plainness and freedom throughout."

  To be suddenly hoisted, naked and gory,
from the common stocks to the Alpine altitude and splendour of an Earldom, seemed to him the
last possibility in the line of the grotesque.  He said to himself, "Now am I finely tinselled,
indeed!  The spectre-knight of the Kingdom of Dreams and Shadows is become a spectre-earl--a
dizzy flight for a callow wing!  An' this go on, I shall presently be hung like a very maypole
with fantastic gauds and make-believe honours.  But I shall value them, all valueless as they
are, for the love that doth bestow them. Better these poor mock dignities of mine, that come
unasked, from a clean hand and a right spirit, than real ones bought by servility from grudging
and interested power."

The dreaded Sir Hugh wheeled his horse about, and as he spurred away, the living wall divided
silently to let him pass, and as silently closed together again.  And so remained; nobody went
so far as to venture a remark in favour of the prisoner, or in compliment to him; but no matter
--the absence of abuse was a sufficient homage in itself.  A late comer who was not posted
as to the present circumstances, and who delivered a sneer at the 'impostor,' and was in the
act of following it with a dead cat, was promptly knocked down and kicked out, without any
words, and then the deep quiet resumed sway once more.

Chapter XXIX. To London.

When Hendon's term of service in the stocks was finished, he was released and ordered to quit
the region and come back no more. His sword was restored to him, and also his mule and his
donkey. He mounted and rode off, followed by the King, the crowd opening with quiet respectfulness
to let them pass, and then dispersing when they were gone.

Hendon was soon absorbed in thought.  There were questions of high import to be answered. 
What should he do?  Whither should he go? Powerful help must be found somewhere, or he must
relinquish his inheritance and remain under the imputation of being an impostor besides.  Where
could he hope to find this powerful help?  Where, indeed!  It was a knotty question. By-and-by
a thought occurred to him which pointed to a possibility--the slenderest of slender possibilities,
certainly, but still worth considering, for lack of any other that promised anything at all.
He remembered what old Andrews had said about the young King's goodness and his generous championship
of the wronged and unfortunate.  Why not go and try to get speech of him and beg for justice?
Ah, yes, but could so fantastic a pauper get admission to the august presence of a monarch?
Never mind--let that matter take care of itself; it was a bridge that would not need to be
crossed till he should come to it.  He was an old campaigner, and used to inventing shifts
and expedients:  no doubt he would be able to find a way.  Yes, he would strike for the capital.
Maybe his father's old friend Sir Humphrey Marlow would help him--'good old Sir Humphrey, Head
Lieutenant of the late King's kitchen, or stables, or something'--Miles could not remember
just what or which.  Now that he had something to turn his energies to, a distinctly defined
object to accomplish, the fog of humiliation and depression which had settled down upon his
spirits lifted and blew away, and he raised his head and looked about him.  He was surprised
to see how far he had come; the village was away behind him.  The King was jogging along in
his wake, with his head bowed; for he, too, was deep in plans and thinkings.  A sorrowful misgiving
clouded Hendon's new-born cheerfulness:  would the boy be willing to go again to a city where,
during all his brief life, he had never known anything but ill-usage and pinching want?  But
the question must be asked; it could not be avoided; so Hendon reined up, and called out--

"I had forgotten to inquire whither we are bound.  Thy commands, my liege!"

"To London!"

Hendon moved on again, mightily contented with the answer--but astounded at it too.

The whole journey was made without an adventure of importance. But it ended with one.  About
ten o'clock on the night of the 19th of February they stepped upon London Bridge, in the midst
of a writhing, struggling jam of howling and hurrahing people, whose beer-jolly faces stood
out strongly in the glare from manifold torches--and at that instant the decaying head of some
former duke or other grandee tumbled down between them, striking Hendon on the elbow and then
bounding off among the hurrying confusion of feet. The one is taken and the same is left. Two events
are reported by it the writer in the same term; their verity breathe on the same testimony;
but the one supports the darling hypothesis, and the other seems
inconsistent with it.  A citizen stumbled over that head, and drove his own head into the back
of somebody in front of him, who turned and knocked down the first person that came handy,
and was promptly laid out himself by that person's friend.  It was the right ripe time for
a free fight, for the festivities of the morrow --Coronation Day--were already beginning; everybody
was full of strong drink and patriotism; within five minutes the free fight was occupying a
good deal of ground; within ten or twelve it covered an acre of so, and was become a riot.
By this time Hendon and the King were hopelessly separated from each other and lost in the
rush and turmoil of the roaring masses of humanity.  And so we leave them.

Chapter XXX. Tom's progress.

Whilst the true King wandered about the land poorly clad, poorly fed, cuffed and derided by
tramps one while, herding with thieves and murderers in a jail another, and called idiot and
impostor by all impartially, the mock King Tom Canty enjoyed quite a different experience.

When we saw him last, royalty was just beginning to have a bright side for him.  This bright
side went on brightening more and more every day: in a very little while it was become almost
all sunshine and delightfulness.  He lost his fears; his misgivings faded out and died; his
embarrassments departed, and gave place to an easy and confident bearing.  He worked the whipping-boy
mine to ever-increasing profit.

He ordered my Lady Elizabeth and my Lady Jane Grey into his presence when he wanted to play
or talk, and dismissed them when he was done with them, with the air of one familiarly accustomed
to such performances.  It no longer confused him to have these lofty personages kiss his hand
at parting.

He came to enjoy being conducted to bed in state at night, and dressed with intricate and solemn
ceremony in the morning.  It came to be a proud pleasure to march to dinner attended by a glittering
procession of officers of state and gentlemen-at-arms; insomuch, indeed, that he doubled his
guard of gentlemen-at-arms, and made them a hundred.  He liked to hear the bugles sounding
down the long corridors, and the distant voices responding, "Way for the King!"

He even learned to enjoy sitting in throned state in council, and seeming to be something more
than the Lord Protector's mouthpiece. He liked to receive great ambassadors and their gorgeous
trains, and listen to the affectionate messages they brought from illustrious monarchs who
called him brother.  O happy Tom Canty, late of Offal Court!

He enjoyed his splendid clothes, and ordered more:  he found his four hundred servants too
few for his proper grandeur, and trebled them.  The adulation of salaaming courtiers came to
be sweet music to his ears.  He remained kind and gentle, and a sturdy and determined champion
of all that were oppressed, and he made tireless war upon unjust laws:  yet upon occasion,
being offended, he could turn upon an earl, or even a duke, and give him a look that would
make him tremble.  Once, when his royal 'sister,' the grimly holy Lady Mary, set herself to
reason with him against the wisdom of his course in pardoning so many people who would otherwise
be jailed, or hanged, or burned, and reminded him that their august late father's prisons had
sometimes contained as high as sixty thousand convicts at one time, and that during his admirable
reign he had delivered seventy-two thousand thieves and robbers over to death by the executioner,
{9} the boy was filled with generous indignation, and commanded her to go to her closet, and
beseech God to take away the stone that was in her breast, and give her a human heart.

Did Tom Canty never feel troubled about the poor little rightful prince who had treated him
so kindly, and flown out with such hot zeal to avenge him upon the insolent sentinel at the
palace-gate? Yes; his first royal days and nights were pretty well sprinkled with painful thoughts
about the lost prince, and with sincere longings for his return, and happy restoration to his
native rights and splendours.  But as time wore on, and the prince did not come, Tom's mind
became more and more occupied with his new and enchanting experiences, and by little and little
the vanished monarch faded almost out of his thoughts; and finally, when he did intrude upon
them at intervals, he was become an unwelcome spectre, for he made Tom feel guilty and ashamed.

Tom's poor mother and sisters travelled the same road out of his mind. At first he pined for
them, sorrowed for them, longed to see them, but later, the thought of their coming some day
in their rags and dirt, and betraying him with their kisses, and pulling him down from his
lofty place, and dragging him back to penury and degradation and the slums, made him shudder.
At last they ceased to trouble his thoughts almost wholly.  And he was content, even glad:
for, whenever their mournful and accusing faces did rise before him now, they made him feel
more despicable than the worms that crawl.

At midnight of the 19th of February, Tom Canty was sinking to sleep in his rich bed in the
palace, guarded by his loyal vassals, and surrounded by the pomps of royalty, a happy boy;
for tomorrow was the day appointed for his solemn crowning as King of England. At that same
hour, Edward, the true king, hungry and thirsty, soiled and draggled, worn with travel, and
clothed in rags and shreds--his share of the results of the riot--was wedged in among a crowd
of people who were watching with deep interest certain hurrying gangs of workmen who streamed
in and out of Westminster Abbey, busy as ants:  they were making the last preparation for the
royal coronation.

Chapter XXXI. The Recognition procession.

When Tom Canty awoke the next morning, the air was heavy with a thunderous murmur:  all the
distances were charged with it.  It was music to him; for it meant that the English world was
out in its strength to give loyal welcome to the great day.

Presently Tom found himself once more the chief figure in a wonderful floating pageant on the
Thames; for by ancient custom the 'recognition procession' through London must start from the
Tower, and he was bound thither.

When he arrived there, the sides of the venerable fortress seemed suddenly rent in a thousand
places, and from every rent leaped a red tongue of flame and a white gush of smoke; a deafening
explosion followed, which drowned the shoutings of the multitude, and made the ground tremble;
the flame-jets, the smoke, and the explosions, were repeated over and over again with marvellous
celerity, so that in a few moments the old Tower disappeared in the vast fog of its own smoke,
all but the very top of the tall pile called the White Tower; this, with its banners, stood
out above the dense bank of vapour as a mountain-peak projects above a cloud-rack.

Tom Canty, splendidly arrayed, mounted a prancing war-steed, whose rich trappings almost reached
to the ground; his 'uncle,' the Lord Protector Somerset, similarly mounted, took place in his
rear; the King's Guard formed in single ranks on either side, clad in burnished armour; after
the Protector followed a seemingly interminable procession of resplendent nobles attended by
their vassals; after these came the lord mayor and the aldermanic body, in crimson velvet robes,
and with their gold chains across their breasts; and after these the officers and members of
all the guilds of London, in rich raiment, and bearing the showy banners of the several corporations.
Also in the procession, as a special guard of honour through the city, was the Ancient and
Honourable Artillery Company--an organisation already three hundred years old at that time,
and the only military body in England possessing the privilege (which it still possesses in
our day) of holding itself independent of the commands of Parliament.  It was a brilliant spectacle,
and was hailed with acclamations all along the line, as it took its stately way through the
packed multitudes of citizens. The chronicler says, 'The King, as he entered the city, was
received by the people with prayers, welcomings, cries, and tender words, and all signs which
argue an earnest love of subjects toward their sovereign; and the King, by holding up his glad
countenance to such as stood afar off, and most tender language to those that stood nigh his
Grace, showed himself no less thankful to receive the people's goodwill than they to offer
it. The composed and rational character gradually acquires the king. They are all intended by exhibit the empire
says to his reason over violent passion. We have two interlocutors, the one eager and impassioned, the
other high, cool, and judicious.
