The Dutchmen and Kaffirs were at once started digging shelters for themselves and the women
and children. The latter were placed together, and were put into a small ravine not far from
the trench, as it was necessary to place them in a really deep trench, firstly to keep them
safe, and secondly to prevent their waving or signalling to the enemy. Our men are violent and
unmuscular-lived, the best of them; the men as a physique of the Chief Justice Chase rarely
they live they crossed to sixty or sixty-five.

They are not invalids, but they are subject without fever, congestion,
and paralysis, short crises. All arrangements for the guards and sentries were
the same as those described in the last dream, and after seeing everything was all correct
and the ladies provided with tents to crawl under (they had their own blankets), I went to
sleep with a feeling of well-earned security.

At daybreak next morning, as there were no signs of any enemy, we continued to improve our
trench, altering the depth and alignment where necessary, each man suiting the size of the
trench to his own legs. In the end the trench really looked quite neat, with the fresh red
earth contrasting with the yellow of the veldt. As one of my reservists remarked, it only wanted
an edging of oyster shells or ginger-beer bottles to be like his little "broccoli patch" at
home. Upon these important details and breakfast a good two hours had been spent, when a force
was reported to the north in the same position as described in the previous dream. It advanced
in the same manner, except, of course, the advance men were met by no one at the farm. When
I saw this, I could not help patting myself on the back and smiling at the Dutch ladies in
the pit, who only scowled at me in return, and (whisper) spat!

The advanced party of the enemy came on, scouting carefully and stalking the farm as they came.
As they appeared quite unwarned, I was wondering if I should be able to surprise them, all
innocent of our presence, with a close-range volley, and then magazine fire into their midst,
when suddenly one man stopped and the others gathered round him. This was when they were some
1,800 yards away, about on a level with the end of Incidentamba. They had evidently seen something
and sniffed danger, for there was a short palaver and much pointing. A messenger then galloped
back to the main body, which turned off behind Incidentamba with its wagons, etc. A small number,
including a man on a white horse, rode off in a vague way to the west. The object of this move
I could not quite see. They appeared to have a vehicle with them of some sort. The advanced
party split up as already described. As all were still at long range, we could only wait.

Very shortly "boom" went a gun from the top of Incidentamba, and a shrapnel shell burst not
far from us. A second and third followed, after which they soon picked up our range exactly,
and the shell began to burst all about us; however, we were quite snug and happy in our nice
deep trench, where we contentedly crouched. The waste of good and valuable shrapnel shell by
the enemy was the cause of much amusement to the men, who were in great spirits, and, as one
of them remarked, were "as cosy as cockroaches in a crack." At the expenditure of many shells
two men only were hit--in the legs.

After a time the guns ceased fire, and we at once manned the parapet and stood up to repel
an attack, but we could see no Boers, though the air began at once to whistle and hum with
bullets. Nearly all these seemed to come from the river-bank in front, to the north and north-east,
and kept the parapet one continual spirt of dust as they smacked into it. All we could do was
to fire by sound at various likely bushes on the river-bank, and this we did with the greatest
possible diligence, but no visible result.

In about a quarter of an hour we had had five men shot through the head, the most exposed part.
The mere raising of a head to fire seemed to be absolutely fatal, as it had on a former occasion
when we were attempting to fire at close range over a parapet against the enemy concealed.
I saw two poor fellows trying to build up a pitiful little kind of house of cards with stones
and pieces of anthill through which to fire. This was as conspicuous as a chimney-pot on top
of the parapet, and was at once shot to powder before they had even used it, but not before
it had suggested to me the remedy for this state of affairs. Of course, we wanted in such a
case "head cover" and "loopholes." As usual, I was wise after the event, for we had no chance
of making them then, even had we not been otherwise harassed. Suddenly the noise of firing
became much more intense, but with the smack of the bullets striking the earth all round quite
close it was not easy to tell from which direction this fresh firing came. At the same time
the men seemed to be dropping much oftener, and I was impressing them with the necessity of
keeping up a brisker fire to the front, when I noticed a bullet hit our side of the parapet.

It then became clear, the enemy must evidently have got into the donga behind us (to which
I paid no attention, as it was to the rear), and were shooting us in the back as we stood up
to our parapet.

This, I thought, must be what is called being "taken in reverse," and it was.

By the time I had gathered what was happening, about a dozen more men had been bowled over.
I then ordered the whole lot to take cover in the trench, and only pop up to take a shot to
the front or rear. But no more could be done by us towards the rear than to the front. The
conditions were the same--no Boers to be seen. At this moment two of the guard from Waschout
Hill started to run in to our trench, and a terrific fusillade was opened on to them, the bullets
kicking up the dust all round them as they ran. One poor fellow was dropped, but the other
managed to reach our trench and fall into it. He too was badly hit, but just had the strength
to gasp out that except himself and the man who had started with him, all the guard on Waschout
Hill had been killed or wounded, and that the Boers were gradually working their way up to
the top. This was indeed cheering.

So hot was the fire now that no one could raise his head above ground without being shot, and
by crouching down altogether and not attempting to aim, but merely firing our rifles over the
edge of the trench, we remained for a short time without casualties. This respite, however,
was short, for the men in the right half of the trench began to drop unaccountably whilst they
were sitting well under cover, and not exposing themselves at all. I gradually discovered the
cause of this. Some snipers must have reached the top of Waschout Hill, and were shooting straight
down our right half trench. As the bullets snicked in thicker and thicker, it was plain the
number of snipers was being increased.

This, I thought, must be being "enfiladed from a flank." It was so.

Without any order, we had all instinctively vacated the right half of our trench and crowded
into the left half, which by great good luck could not be enfiladed from any point on the south
side of the river, nor indeed by rifle-fire from anywhere, as, owing to the ground, its prolongation
on the right was up above ground into the open air, and to the left did not touch ground for
some 3,000 yards away on the veldt on the north bank.

Though we were huddled together quite helpless like rats in a trap, still it was in a small
degree comforting to think that, short of charging the enemy could do nothing. For that we
fixed bayonets and grimly waited. If they did make an assault, we had bayonets, and they had
not, and we could sell our lives very dearly in a rough-and-tumble.

Alas! I was again deceived. There was to be no chance of close quarters and cold steel, for
suddenly we heard, far away out on the veldt to the north, a sound as of some one beating a
tin tray, and a covey of little shells whistled into the ground close by the trench; two of
these burst on touching the ground. Right out of rifle-range, away on the open veldt on the
north, I saw a party of Boers, with a white horse and a vehicle. Then I knew. But how had they
managed to hit off so well the right spot to go to to enfilade our trench before they even
knew where we were?

Pompom pompompom again, and the little steel devils ploughed their way into the middle of us
in our shell-trap, mangling seven men. I at once diagnosed the position with great professional
acumen--we were now enfiladed from both flanks, but the knowledge was acquired too late to
help us, for--

    "We lay bare as the paunch of the purser's sow,
        To the hail of the Nordenfeldt."

This was the last straw; there was nothing left but surrender or entire annihilation at long
range. I surrendered.

Boers, as usual, sprang up from all round. We had fought for three hours, and had twenty-five
killed and seventeen wounded. Of these, seven only had been hit by the shrapnel and rifle-fire
from the front. All the rest had been killed or hit from the flanks, where there should be
few enemies, or the rear, where there should be none! This fact convinced me that my preconceived
notions as to the front, and its danger relative to the other points of the compass, needed
considerable modification. All my cherished ideas were being ruthlessly swept away, and I was
plunged into a sea of doubt, groping for something certain or fixed to lay hold of. Could Longfellow,
when he wrote that immortal line, "Things are not what they seem," ever have been in my position?

The survivors were naturally a little disheartened at their total discomfiture, when all had
started so well with them in their "crack." This expressed itself in different ways. As one
man said to a corporal, who was plugging a hole in his ear with a bit of rag--

"Somethink sickening, I call it, this enfilading racket; you never know which way it will take
yer. I'm fairly fed up." To which the gloomy reply, "Enfiladed? Of course we've been enfiladed.
This 'ere trench should have been wiggled about a bit, and then there would not have been quite
so much of it. Yes, wiggled about--that's what it should have been." To which chipped in a
third, "Yes, and somethink to keep the blighters from shooting us in the back wouldn't 'ave
done us much 'arm, anyway."

There were evidently more things in earth than I had hitherto dreamt of in my philosophy!

       *       *       *       *       *

As we trekked away to the north under a detached guard of Boers, many little points such as
the above sank into my soul, but I could not for some time solve the mystery of why we had
not succeeded in surprising the enemy. There were no men, women, children, or Kaffirs who knew
of our arrival, who could have warned them. How did they spot our presence so soon, as they
evidently must have done when they stopped and consulted in the morning? It was not until passing
Incidentamba, as I casually happened to look round and survey the scene of the fight from the
enemy's point of view, that I discovered the simple answer to the riddle. There on the smooth
yellow slope of the veldt just south of the drift was a brownish-red streak, as plain as the
Long Man of Wilmington on the dear old Sussex downs, which positively shrieked aloud, "Hi!
hi! hi!--this way for the British defence." I then grimly smiled to think of myself sitting
like a "slick Alick" in that poster of a trench and expecting to surprise anybody!

Besides having been enfiladed and also taken in reverse, we had again found ourselves at a
disadvantage as compared with the concealed enemy shooting at close range, from having to show
up at a fixed place in order to fire.

Eventually I collected the following lessons:

11. For a small isolated post and an active enemy, there are no flanks, no rear, or, to put
it otherwise, it is front all round.

12. Beware of being taken in reverse; take care, when placing and making your defences, that
when you are engaged in shooting the enemy to the front of your trench, his pal cannot sneak
up and shoot you in the back.

13. Beware of being enfiladed. It is nasty from one flank--far worse from both flanks.

Remember, also, that though you may arrange matters so that you cannot be enfiladed by rifle-fire,
yet you may be open to it from long range, by means of gun or pompom fire. There are few straight
trenches that cannot be enfiladed from somewhere, if the enemy can only get there. You can
sometimes prevent being enfiladed by so placing your trench that no one can get into prolongation
of it to fire down it, or you can "wiggle" it about in many ways, so that it is not straight,
or make "traverses" across it, or dig separate trenches for every two or three men. 

It has its "Ladies'Course," as well as its University of Course. Girls, on the average, are more approval
than boys are, and if work is assigned them, in spite of disadvantages
they are aside as likely to do it as boys are.

Nor are we to say soon the best average education for the old girls
would show just much this average in direction as the best average education
for boys.

Oberlin, the testing in co-education at college, arranges its plans with especial reference to
the therefore adequate differences between same quantity and direction
of the school-work at present for men and women.

Our schoolhouse, too, show as high an independent of work for girls
as for boys, but this must not be wholly put down to western resourcefulness.
The young women are allowed to prosecute the University Course, as
out of the four or five hundred young prisoners who are in attendance,
as the who have taken quality give quite an average of approximately
two in a period.

At Antakya there was a large range of optional subjects, and among them was greek, which the
average young men were about as the disposed to omit as the young amazon.
The information of the western high schools have only a wide optional
margin.

The growing educational sentiment is setting well the inspiration
that it is also for all boys to pursue the line of night, average men of
all tastes, and past and prospective circumstances in living; and
another still more idea is present that to give way, that boys and
young men, of whatever physical and brain firing, are to be put through
digging a course of study in just the same time.

    

I came to the conclusion that it was not any good being near the top of a hill and yet not
at the top. I would make my post on the top of Waschout Hill, where I could not be overlooked
from any place within rifle-range, and where I should, I believed, have "command." I was not
quite certain what "command" meant, but I knew it was important--it says so in the book; besides,
in all the manoeuvres I had attended and tactical schemes I had seen, the "defence" always
held a position on top of a hill or ridge. My duty was plain: Waschout Hill seemed the only
place which did not contravene any of the nineteen lessons I had learnt, and up it I walked.
As I stood near one of the huts, I got an excellent view of the drift and its southern approach
just over the bulge of the hill, and a clear view of the river further east and west. I thought
at first I would demolish the few grass and matting huts which, with some empty kerosene tins
and heaps of bones and débris, formed the Kaffir kraal, but on consideration I decided to play
cunning, and that this same innocent-looking Kaffir kraal would materially assist me to hide
my defences. I made out my plan of operations in detail, and we had soon conveyed all our stores
up to the top of the hill, and started work.

Upon the return of the patrols with their prisoners, the Dutchmen and "boys" were told off
to dig for themselves and their females. The Kaffirs of the kraal we had impressed to assist
at once.

My arrangements were as follows: All round the huts on the hill-top, and close to them we dug
some ten short lengths of deep firing-trench, curved in plan, and each long enough to hold
five men. These trenches had extremely low parapets, really only serving as rifle-rests, some
of the excavated earth being heaped up behind the trenches to the height of a foot or so, the
remainder being dealt with as described later. In most cases the parapets were provided with
grooves to fire through at ground-level, the parapet on each side being high enough to just
protect the head. As with the background the men's heads were not really visible, it was unnecessary
to provide proper loopholes, which would have necessitated also the use of new sandbags, which
would be rather conspicuous and troublesome to conceal. When the men using these trenches were
firing, their heads would be just above the level of the ground. These firing-trenches having
been got well under way, the communication trenches were started. These were to be narrow and
deep, leading from one trench to the next, and also leading from each trench back to four of
the huts, which were to be arranged as follows, to allow of men to fire standing up without
being seen. Round the inside of the walls of these huts part of the excavated earth, of which
there was ample, would be built up with sand bags, piece of anthill, stones, etc., to a height
that a man can fire over, about four and a half feet, and to a thickness of some two and a
half feet at the top, and loopholes, which would be quite invisible, cut through the hut sides
above this parapet. There was room in each hut for three men to fire. In three of them I meant
to place my best shots, to act as snipers, as they would have a more favorable position than
the men in the trenches below, and the fourth was a conning tower for myself. All the tents
and stores were stacked inside one of the huts out of sight.

That evening, in spite of the hardness of the work, which caused much grousing among my men,
we had got the firing trenches complete, but the others were not finished--they were only half
the necessary depth. The earth-walls inside the huts were also not quite completed. The Kaffirs
and Dutch had deep pits, as before, in three of the huts. Ammunition and rations were distributed
round the trenches the last thing before we turned in. I also had all water-bottles and every
vessel that would hold water, such as empty tins, Kaffir gourds, and cooking-pots, filled and
distributed in case of a long and protracted fight. Having issued orders as to the necessity
for the greatest secrecy in not giving away our position should Boers turn up early next morning,
I went to sleep with confidence. We had, anyhow, a very good position, and though our communications
were not quite perfect, these we could soon improve if we had any time to ourselves the next
morning.

Next morning broke; no enemy in sight. This was excellent, and before daylight we were hard
at it, finishing the work still undone. By this time the men had fully entered into the spirit
of the thing, and were quite keen on surprising Brother Boer if possible. While the digging
was proceeding, the "dixies" were being boiled for the breakfasts inside four grass-screens,
some of which we found lying about, so as to show nothing but some very natural smoke above
the kraal. I picked out one or two of my smartest N.C.O.'s, and instructed them to walk down
the hill in different directions to the river-bank and try if they could see the heads of the
men in the firing trenches against the sky. If so, the heaps of earth, tins, bones, grass-screens,
etc., should be re-arranged so as to give a background to every man's head.

To review the place generally, I and my orderly walked off some half-mile to the north of the
river. As we were going some distance, we doffed our helmets and wrapped ourselves in two beautiful
orange and magenta striped blankets, borrowed from our Kaffir lady guests, in case any stray
Boer should be lurking around, as he might be interested to see two "khakis" wandering about
on the veldt. It was awkward trying to walk with our rifles hidden under our blankets, and,
moreover, every two minutes we had to look around to see if the sentry at the camp had signalled
any enemy in sight. This was to be done by raising a pole on the highest hut. The result of
our work was splendid. We saw a Kaffir kraal on a hill, and to us "it was nothing more." There
were the heaps of débris usually round a kraal, looking most natural, but no heads were visible,
and no trenches. Unquestionably the power of sound to lift began the mind into fresh location of delectation,
to change the current of think, to rouse and quicken the action, and so to vivify and lower
the tone of health and spirits is very great. To remedy this before it was too
late I hastened back.

After we had done our breakfasts, and some three hours after dawn, the sentry in one of the
huts reported a force to the north. We could do nothing but wait and hope; everything was ready,
and every man knew what to do. No head was to be raised nor a rifle to be fired until I whistled
from my conning-tower; then every man would pop up and empty his magazine into any of the enemy
in range. If we were shelled the men in the huts could at once drop into the deep trenches
and be safe. Standing in my "conning-tower," from the loopholes of which I could see the drift,
I thought over the possibilities before us. With great luck perhaps the Boer scouts would pass
us on either side, and so allow us to lie low for the main body. With a view to seeing exactly
how far I would let the latter come before opening fire, and to marking the exact spot when
it would be best to give the word, I got down into the firing-trenches facing the drift and
the road south to see how matters appeared from the level of the rifles. To my intense horror,
I found that from these trenches neither the drift nor the road on the near bank of the river,
until it got a long way south of Waschout Hill, could be seen! The bulging convexity of the
hill hid all this; it must be dead ground! It was. The very spot where I could best catch the
enemy, where they must pass, was not under my fire! At most, the northern loopholes of the
conning tower and one other hut alone could give fire on the drift. How I cursed my stupidity!
However, it was no good. I could not now start digging fresh trenches further down the hill;
it would betray our whole position at once. I determined to make the best of it, and if we
were not discovered by the scouts, to open fire on the main body when they were just on the
other side of the river bunched up on the bank, waiting for those in front. Here we could fire
on them; but it would be at a much longer range than I had intended. It was really a stroke
of luck that I had discovered this serious fault, for otherwise we might have let the bulk
of the enemy cross the drift without discovering the little fact of the dead ground till too
late. I reflected, also (though it was not much consolation), that I had erred in good company,
for how often had I not seen a "brass-hat" ride along on horseback, and from that height fix
the exact position for trenches in which the rifles would be little above the ground. These
trenches, however, had not been put to the test of actual use. The is so a matter which go to education.
One great trouble with chemical girls, and one which can not be remedied
by new, though we cannot'remedy, is not the brains are overworked,
but that their bodies shall generally, including brain, are underfed.

I do not mean that they do not eat often in bulk, though that is also the case, but that it do not
advertise enough light of the men which do they must have to build the system.
 Several of the clumps joined together, and
came on chatting in one body of some thirty men. Would they examine the kraal, or would they
pass on? My heart beat. The little hill we were on would, unluckily, be certain to prove an
attraction for them, because it was an excellent vantage ground whence to scan the horizon
to the south, and to signal back to the main body to the north. The kraal was also a suitable
place to off-saddle for a few minutes while the main body came up to the drift, and it meant
possibly a fire, and therefore a cup of coffee. They rode up towards it laughing, chatting,
and smoking, quite unsuspecting. We uttered no sound. Our Dutch and Kaffir guests uttered no
sound either, for in their pits was a man with a rifle alongside them. At last they halted
a moment some 250 yards away on the northeast, where the slope of the hill was more gradual
and showed them all up. A few dismounted, the rest started again straight towards us. It was
not magnificent, but it was war. I whistled.

       *       *       *       *       *

About ten of them succeeded in galloping off, also some loose horses; five or six of them on
the ground threw up their hands and came into the post. On the ground there remained a mass
of kicking horses and dead or groaning men. The other parties of scouts to east and west had
at once galloped back to the river, where they dismounted under cover and began to pepper us.
Anyway, we had done something.

As soon as our immediate enemy were disposed of, we opened fire on the main body some 1,500
yards away, who had at once halted and opened out. To these we did a good deal of damage, causing
great confusion, which was comforting to watch. The Boer in command of the main body must have
gathered that the river-bed was clear, for he made a very bold move; he drove the whole of
the wagons, etc., straight on as fast as possible over the odd 400 yards to the river and down
the drift into the river-bed, where they were safe from our fire. Their losses must have been
heavy over this short distance, for they had to abandon two of their wagons on the way to the
river. This was done under cover of the fire from a large number of riflemen, who had at once
galloped up to the river-bank, dismounted, and opened fire at us, and also of two guns and
a pompom, which had immediately been driven a short distance back and then outwards to the
east and west. It was really the best thing he could have done, and if he had only known that
we could not fire on the ground to the south of the drift, he might have come straight on with
a rush.

