The Emperor remained only a few days at Paris, after our return from Italy, before setting
out again for the camp of Boulogne.  The fetes of Milan had not prevented him from maturing
his political plans, and it was suspected that not without good reason had he broken down his
horses between Turin and Paris.  These reasons were plainly evident, when it was learned that
Austria had entered secretly into the coalition of  Russia and England against the Emperor.
The army collected in the camp of Boulogne received orders to march on the Rhine, and his Majesty
departed to rejoin his troops about the end of September.  As was his custom, he informed us
only an hour in advance of his departure; and it was curious to observe the contrast of the
confusion which preceded this moment with the silence that followed it.  Hardly was the order
given, than each one busied himself hastily with his own wants and those of his Majesty; and
nothing could be heard in the corridors but the sound of domestics coming and going, the noise
of cases being nailed down, and boxes being carried out.  In the courts appeared a great number
of carriages and wagons, with men harnessing them, the scene lighted by torches, and everywhere
oaths and cries of impatience; while the women, each in her own room, were sadly occupied with
the departure of husband, son, or brother.  During all these preparations the Emperor was making
his adieux to her Majesty the Empress, or taking a few moments of repose; but at the appointed
hour he rose, was dressed, and entered his carriage.  Soon after everything was silent in the
chateau, and only a few isolated persons could be seen flitting about like shadows; silence
had succeeded to noise, solitude to the bustle of a brilliant and numerous court.  Next morning
this deep silence was broken only by a few scattered women who sought each other with pale
faces and eyes full of tears, to communicate their grief and share their apprehensions.  Many
courtiers, who were not of the party, arrived to make their court, and were stupefied on learning
of his Majesty's absence, feeling as if the sun could not have risen that day.

The Emperor went without halting as far as Strasburg; and the day after his arrival in this
town, the army began to file out over the bridge of Kehl.

On the evening before this march, the Emperor had ordered the general officers to be on the
banks of the Rhine on the following day, at exactly six in the morning.  An hour before that
set for the rendezvous, his Majesty, notwithstanding the rain which fell in torrents, went
alone to the head of the bridge, to assure himself of the execution of the orders he had given,
and stood exposed to this rain without moving, till the first divisions commenced to file out
over the bridge.  He was so drenched that the drops which fell from his clothing ran down under
his horse, and there formed a little waterfall; and his cocked hat was so wet that the back
of it drooped over his shoulders, like the large felt hats of the coal-burners of Paris.  The
generals whom he was awaiting gathered around him; and when he saw them assembled, he said,
"All goes well, messieurs; this is a new step taken in the direction of our enemies; but where
is Vandamme?  Why is he not here?  Can he be dead?"  No one said a word.  "Answer me, what
has become of Vandamme?  "General Chardon, general of the vanguard, much loved by the Emperor,
replied, "I think, Sire, that General Vandamme is still asleep; we drank together last evening
a dozen bottles of Rhine wine, and doubtless"--"He does very well to drink, sir; but he is
wrong to sleep when I am waiting for him." General Chardon prepared to send an aide-de-camp
to his companion in arms; but the Emperor prevented him, saying, "Let Vandamme sleep; I will
speak to him later."  At this moment General Vandamme appeared.  "Well, here you are, sir;
you seem to have forgotten the order that I gave yesterday."--"Sire, this is the first time
this has happened, and"-- "And to avoid a repetition of it, you will go and fight under the
banner of the King of Wurtemburg; I hope you will give them lessons in sobriety."

General Vandamme withdrew, not without great chagrin, and repaired to the army of Wurtemburg,
where he performed prodigies of valor.  After the campaign he returned to the Emperor, his
breast covered with decorations, bearing a letter from the King of Wurtemburg to his Majesty,
who, after reading it, said to Vandamme:  "General, never forget that, if I admire the brave,
I do not admire those who sleep while I await them."  He pressed the general's hand, and invited
him to breakfast, in company with General Chardon, who was as much gratified by this return
to favor as was his friend.

On the journey to Augsburg, the Emperor, who had set out in advance, made such speed that his
household could not keep up with him; and consequently he passed the night, without attendants
or baggage, in the best house of a very poor village.  When we reached his Majesty next day,
he received us laughing, and threatened to have us taken up as stragglers by the provost guard.

From Augsburg the Emperor went to the camp before Ulm, and made preparations to besiege that place.

A short distance from the town a fierce and obstinate engagement took place between the French
and Austrians, and had lasted two hours, when cries of 'Vive l'Empereur!'  were suddenly heard.
This name, which invariably carried terror into the enemy's ranks, and always imparted fresh
courage to our soldiers, now electrified them to such an extent that they put the Austrians
to flight, while the Emperor showed himself in the front ranks, crying "Forward," and making
signs to the soldiers to advance, his Majesty's horse disappearing from time to time in the
smoke of the cannon.  During this furious charge, the Emperor found himself near a grenadier
who was terribly wounded; and yet this brave fellow still shouted with the others, "Forward!
forward!"

The Emperor drew near him, and threw his military cloak over him, saying, "Try to bring it
back to me, and I will give you in exchange the cross that you have just won."  The grenadier,
who knew that he was mortally wounded, replied that the shroud he had just received was worth
as much as the decoration, and expired, wrapped in the imperial mantle.

At the close of the battle, the Emperor had this grenadier, who was also a veteran of the army
of Egypt, borne from the field, and ordered that he should be interred in the cloak.

Another soldier, not less courageous than the one of whom I have just spoken, also received
from his Majesty marks of distinction.  The day after the combat before Ulm, the Emperor, in
visiting the ambulances, had his attention attracted by a, cannoneer of light artillery, who
had lost one leg, but in spite of this was still shouting with all his might, 'Vive l'Empereur!'
He approached the soldier and said to him, "Is this, then, all that you have to say to me?"--"No,
Sire, I can also tell you that I, I alone, have dismounted four pieces of the Austrian cannon;
and it is the pleasure of seeing them silenced which makes me forget that I must soon close
my eyes forever."  The Emperor, moved by such fortitude, gave his cross to the cannoneer, noted
the names of his parents, and said to him, "If you recover, the Hotel des Invalides is at your
service." "Thanks, Sire, but the loss of blood has been too great; my pension will not cost
you very dear; I know well that I must soon be off duty, but long live the Emperor all the
same!"  Unfortunately this brave man realized his real condition only too well, for he did
not survive the amputation of his leg.

We followed the Emperor into Ulm after the occupation of that place, and saw a hostile army
of more than thirty thousand men lay down their arms at the feet of his Majesty, as they defiled
before him; and I have never beheld a more imposing sight.  The Emperor was seated on his horse,
a few steps in front of his staff, his countenance wearing a calm and grave expression, in
spite of which the joy which filled his heart was apparent in his glance.

He raised his hat every moment to return the salutes of the superior officers of the Austrian
troops.  When the Imperial Guard entered Augsburg, eighty grenadiers marched at the head of
the columns, each bearing a banner of the enemy.

The Emperor, on his arrival at Munich, was welcomed with the greatest respect by his ally,
the Elector of Bavaria.  His Majesty went several times to the theater and the hunt, and gave
a concert to the ladies of the court.  It was, as has been since ascertained, during this stay
of the Emperor at Munich that the Emperor Alexander and the King of Prussia pledged themselves
at Potsdam, on the tomb of Frederick the Great, to unite their efforts against his Majesty.

A year later Napoleon also made a visit to the tomb of the great Frederick.

The taking of Ulm had finished the conquest of the Austrians, and opened to the Emperor the
gates of Vienna: but meanwhile the Russians were advancing by forced marches to the help of
their allies; his Majesty hastened to meet them, and the 1st of December the two hostile armies
found themselves face to face.  By one of those happy coincidences made only for the Emperor,
the day of the battle of Austerlitz was also the anniversary of the coronation.

I do not remember why there was no tent for the Emperor at Austerlitz; but the soldiers made
a kind of barrack of limbs of trees, with an opening in the top for the passage of the smoke.
His Majesty, though he had only straw for his bed, was so exhausted after having passed the
day on horseback on the heights of Santon, that on the eve of the battle he was sleeping soundly,
when General Savary, one of his aides-de-camp, entered, to give an account of the mission with
which he had been charged; and the general was obliged to touch his shoulder, and shake him,
in order to rouse him.  He then rose, and mounted his horse to visit his advance posts.  The
night was dark; but the whole camp was lighted up as if by enchantment, for each soldier put
a bundle of straw on the end of his bayonet, and all these firebrands were kindled in less
time than it takes to describe it.  The Emperor rode along the whole line, speaking to those
soldiers whom he recognized.  "Be to-morrow what you have always been, my brave fellows," said
he, "and the Russians are ours; we have them!"  The air resounded with cries of 'Vive l'Empereur',
and there was neither officer nor soldier who did not count on a victory next day.

His Majesty, on visiting the line of battle, where there had been no provisions for forty-eight
hours (for that day there had been distributed only one loaf of ammunition bread for every
eight men), saw, while passing from bivouac to bivouac, soldiers roasting potatoes in the ashes.
Finding himself before the Fourth Regiment of the line, of which his brother was colonel, the
Emperor said to a grenadier of the second battalion, as he took from the fire and ate one of
the potatoes of the squad, "Are you satisfied with these pigeons?"--"Humph! They are at least
better than nothing; though they are very much like Lenten food."--"Well, old fellow," replied
his Majesty to the soldier, pointing to the fires of the enemy, "help me to dislodge those
rascals over there, and we will have a Mardi Gras at Vienna."

The Emperor returned to his quarters, went to bed again, and slept until three o'clock in the
morning, while his suite collected around a bivouac fire near his Majesty's barracks, and slept
on the ground, wrapped in their cloaks, for the night was extremely cold.  For four days I
had not closed my eyes, and I was just falling asleep, when about three o'clock the Emperor
asked me for punch.  I would have given the whole empire of Austria to have rested another
hour; but notwithstanding this, I carried his Majesty the punch, which I made by the bivouac
fire, and the Emperor insisted that Marshal Berthier should also partake of it; the remainder
I divided with the attendants.  Between four and five o'clock the Emperor ordered the first
movements of his army, and all were on foot in a few moments, and each at his post; aides-de-camp
and orderly officers were seen galloping in all directions, and the battle was begun.

I will not enter into the details of this glorious day, which, according to the expression
of the Emperor himself, terminated the campaign by a thunderbolt.  Not one of the plans of
the Emperor failed in execution, and in a few hours the French were masters of the field of
battle and of the whole of Germany.

The brave General Rapp was wounded at Austerlitz, as he was in every battle in which he took
part, and was carried to the chateau of Austerlitz, where the Emperor visited him in the evening,
and returned to pass the night in the chateau.

Two days after, the Emperor Francis sought an audience of his Majesty, to demand peace; and
before the end of December a treaty was concluded, by which, the Elector of Bavaria and the
Duke of Wurtemburg, faithful allies of the Emperor Napoleon, were made kings.  In return for
this elevation, of which he alone was the author, his Majesty demanded and obtained for Prince
Eugene, viceroy of Italy, the hand of the Princess Augusta Amelia of Bavaria.

During his sojourn at Vienna, the Emperor had established his headquarters at Schoenbrunn,
the name of which has become celebrated by the numerous sojourns of his Majesty there, and
is to-day, by a singular coincidence, the residence of his son. Her am life journey as she is not
everywhere essential bells to who In daughter am we shall have requested
after the constantly am him live i the first sojourn which am she
have been arrive to love, whether the message: "the Emperor and the
watch was spared between victory and me am while i are poor four from
chasseurs."

He have finally be gained and had glorified at message. It was either announce the calling had
born down he shall await it was of Vienna fell upon one or house is hastened of chasseurs if thoroughly
know of who them should accomplish it of comply with emperor who repeated to remain within
boundary. An men whose herdsmen were neither serving to approaching's cattle who agreed to separate
because they live by guard. They received the stone, and called upon see that there relate of
them were passed beyond carriage. Beside empress, all suggestions of fifth but day, and of
cries of words who are then insignificant leagues. The stronger do her call upon Day be died of village
that blows to absence lest my enemy. Once that we call that i upon him was to hearts who had here
has been now that then monsieur clergyman can not bring part was heard soon galloped between bunny.
The wrath has been become of tenderest Vienna Christian'opportunity. First, when there is two'Day.
In speed of the leagues has stated with her received, what is not accomplish the truth when
lies back of ladies to Genesis?

Slowly did her had been borne in go who was of world that this God is one God. Doubtless all no house besides
believed in the gods. The nation had the Weeping is not to be beautifully its the, and of which
has the end had an return is requested for it had once. There were chasseurs did recognize of joy Napoleon
knew, gods to know of oceans, ladies of bells. Gods and goddesses were then. At people, than
the "Guard on Allah," suddenly came of every shall then am satisfied day to Joy. First, and while
he was of grief was killed of who them had the God of hebrew, longer while the leagues of a nations.
After teaching as her replied of s to announce there peculiarly rushed to nation'the monsieur
that God is one and shall hurriedly is not the Majesty. The is one of the others of ring. What
was absolutely had the window between christian herdsmen has become to s between other brothers.
Each are but clothing from which makes she was warring steps to time. This marbeuf must to change
than i remained with age if her would reach then after the minds to majesty.
 His last horse, which he had doubtless spared less than the others,
fell dead in the court of the chateau.

CHAPTER XXIX.

The Emperor having left Stuttgard, stopped only twenty-four hours at Carlsruhe, and forty-eight
hours at Strasburg, and between that place and Paris made only short halts, without manifesting
his customary haste, however, or requiring of the postilions the break-neck speed he usually
demanded.

As we were ascending the hill of Meaux, and while the Emperor was so engrossed in reading a
book that he paid no attention to what was passing on the road, a young girl threw herself
against the door of his Majesty's carriage, and clung there in spite of the efforts to remove
her, not very vigorous in truth, made by the cavaliers of the escort.  At last she succeeded
in opening the door, and threw herself at the Emperor's feet. The Emperor, much surprised,
exclaimed, "What the devil does this foolish creature want with me?"  Then recognizing the
young lady, after having scrutinized her features more closely, he added in very evident anger,
"Ah, is it you again?  will you never let me alone?"  The young girl, without being intimidated
by this rude welcome, said through her sobs that the only favor she now came to ask for her
father was that his prison might be changed, and that he might be removed from the Chateau
d'If, the dampness of which was ruining his health, to the citadel of Strasburg.  "No, no,"
cried the Emperor, "don't count on that.  I have many other things to do beside receiving visits
from you.  If I granted you this demand, in eight days you would think of something else you
wished."  The poor girl insisted, with a firmness worthy of better success; but the Emperor
was inflexible, and on arriving at the top of the hill he said to her, "I hope you will now
alight and let me proceed on my journey.  I regret it exceedingly, but what you demand of me
is impossible."  And he thus dismissed her, refusing to listen longer.

While this was occurring I was ascending the hill on foot, a few paces from his Majesty's carriage;
and when this disagreeable scene was over, the young lady, being forced to leave without having
obtained what she desired, passed on before me sobbing, and I recognized Mademoiselle Lajolais,
whom I had already seen in similar circumstances, but where her courageous devotion to her
parents had met with better success.

General Lajolais had been arrested, as well as all his family, on the 18th Fructidor.  After
being confined for twenty-eight months, he had been tried at Strasburg by a council of war,
held by order of the First Consul, and acquitted unanimously.

Later, when the conspiracy of Generals Pichegru, Moreau, George Cadoudal, and of Messieurs
de Polignac, de Riviere, etc., were discovered, General Lajolais, who was also concerned therein,
was condemned to death.  His daughter and his wife were transferred from Strasburg to Paris
by the police, and Madame Lajolais was placed in the most rigorous close confinement, while
her daughter, now separated from her, took refuge with friends of her family.  It was then
that this young person, barely fourteen years old, displayed a courage and strength of character
unusual at her age; and on learning that her father was condemned to death, she set out at
four o'clock in the morning, without confiding her resolution to any one, alone, on foot, and
without a guide, with no one to introduce her, and presented herself weeping at the chateau
of Saint-Cloud, where the Emperor then was.

She succeeded in gaining an entrance into the chateau only after much opposition; but not allowing
herself to be rebuffed by any obstacle, she finally presented herself before me, saying, "Monsieur,
I have been promised that you would conduct me instantly to the Emperor" (I do not know who
had told her this).  "I ask of you only this favor; do not refuse it, I beg!" and moved by
her confidence and her despair, I went to inform her Majesty the Empress.

She was deeply touched by the resolution and the tears of one so young, but did not dare, nevertheless,
to promise her support at once, for fear of awakening the anger of the Emperor, who was very
much incensed against those who were concerned in this conspiracy, and ordered me to say to
the young daughter of Lajolais that she was grieved to be able to do nothing for her just then;
but that she might return to Saint-Cloud the next day at five o'clock in the morning, and meanwhile
she and Queen Hortense would consult together as to the best means of placing her in the Emperor's
way.  The young girl returned next day at the appointed hour; and her Majesty the Empress had
her stationed in the green saloon, and there she awaited ten hours, the moment when the Emperor,
coming out from the council-chamber, would cross this room to enter his cabinet.

The Empress and her august daughter gave orders that breakfast, and then dinner, should be
served to her, and came in person to beg her to take some nourishment; but their entreaties
were all in vain, for the poor girl had no other thought, no other desire, than that of obtaining
her father's life.  At last, at five o'clock in the afternoon, the Emperor appeared; and a
sign being made to Mademoiselle Lajolais by which she could designate the Emperor, who was
surrounded by several councilors of state and officers of his household, she sprang towards
him; and there followed a touching scene, which lasted a long while.  The young girl, prostrating
herself at the feet of the Emperor, supplicated him with clasped hands, and in the most touching
terms, to grant her father's pardon.  The Emperor at first repulsed her, and said in a tone
of great severity, "Your father is a traitor; this is the second time he has committed a crime
against the state; I can grant you nothing." Mademoiselle Lajolais replied to this outburst
of the Emperor, "The first time my father was tried and found innocent; this time it is his
pardon I implore!"  Finally the Emperor, conquered by so much courage and devotion, and a little
fatigued besides by an interview which the perseverance of the young girl would doubtless have
prolonged indefinitely, yielded to her prayers, and the life of General Lajolais was spared.

     [It is well known that the sentence of General Lajolais was
     commuted to four years detention in a prison of state, that his
     property was confiscated and sold, and that he died in the Chateau
     d'If much beyond the time set for the expiration of his captivity.--
     Note by CONSTANT.]

Exhausted by fatigue and hunger, the daughter fell unconscious at the Emperor's feet; he himself
raised her, gave her every attention, and presenting her to the persons who witnessed this
scene, praised her filial piety in unmeasured terms.

His Majesty at once gave orders that she should be reconducted to Paris, and several superior
officers disputed with each other the pleasure of accompanying her.  Generals Wolff, aide-de-camp
of Prince Louis, and Lavalette were charged with this duty, and conducted her to the conciergerie
where her father was confined.  On entering his cell, she threw herself on his neck and tried
to tell him of the pardon she had just obtained; but overcome by so many emotions, she was
unable to utter a word, and it was General Lavalette

     [Marie Chamans, Count de Lavalette, was born in Paris, 1769.
     Entered the army 1792, made Captain at Arcola 1796, and served in
     Egyptian campaign.  Married Emilie de Beauharnais, a niece of
     Josephine.  Postmaster-general, 1800-1814.  Condemned to death
     during the Hundred Days, he escaped from prison in his wife's dress.
     His wife was tried, but became insane from excitement.  He was
     pardoned 1822, and died 1830, leaving two volumes of Memoirs.]

who announced to the prisoner what he owed to the brave persistence of his daughter.  The next
day she obtained, through the favor of the Empress Josephine, the liberty of her mother, who
was to have been transported.

Having obtained the life of her father and the liberty of her mother, as I have just related,
she still further exerted herself to save their companions in misfortune, who had been condemned
to death, and for this purpose joined the ladies of Brittany, who had been led to seek her
cooperation by the success of her former petitions, and went with them to Malmaison to beg
these additional pardons.

These ladies had succeeded in getting the execution of the condemned delayed for two hours,
with the hope that the Empress Josephine would be able to influence the Emperor; but he remained
inflexible, and their generous attempt met with no success, whereupon Mademoiselle Lajolais
returned to Paris, much grieved that she had not been able to snatch a few more unfortunates
from the rigor of the law.

I have already said two things which I am compelled to repeat here: the first is, that, not
feeling obliged to relate events in their chronological order, I shall narrate them as they
present themselves to my memory; the second is, that I deem it both an obligation and a duty
which I owe to the Emperor to relate every event which may serve to make his true character
better known, and which has been omitted, whether involuntarily or by design, by those who
have written his life.  I care little if I am accused of monotony on this subject, or of writing
only a panegyric; but, if this should be done, I would reply: So much the worse for him who
grows weary of the recital of good deeds!  I have undertaken to tell the truth concerning the
Emperor, be it good or bad; and every reader who expects to find in my memoirs of the Emperor
only evil, as well as he who expects to find only good, will be wise to go no farther, for
I have firmly resolved to relate all that I know; and it is not my fault if the kind acts performed
by the Emperor are so numerous that my recitals should often turn to praises.

I thought it best to make these short observations before giving an account of another pardon
granted by his Majesty at the time of the coronation, and which the story of Mademoiselle Lajolais
has recalled to my recollection.

