From that moment, however, she forgot nothing in order to ensure its failure.  The first sight
of it had made her tremble.  To be separated from the King during a long siege; to abandon
him to a minister to whom he would be grateful for all the success of that siege; a minister,
too, who, although her creature, had dared to submit this project to the King without informing
her; who, moreover, had recently offended her by marrying his son into a family she considered
inimical to her, and by supporting M. de Vendome against Monseigneur de Bourgogne!  These were
considerations that determined her to bring about the failure of Chamillart's project and the
disgrace of Chamillart himself.

She employed her art so well, that after a time the project upon Lille did not appear so easy
to the King as at first.  Soon after, it seemed difficult; then too hazardous and ruinous;
so that at last it was abandoned, and Boufflers had orders to cease his preparations and return
to France!  She succeeded thus in an affair she considered the most important she had undertaken
during all her life.  Chamillart was much touched, but little surprised: As soon as he knew
his secret had been confided to Madame de Maintenon he had feeble hope for it.  Now he began
to fear for himself.

CHAPTER XLIV.

One of the reasons Madame de Maintenon had brought forward, which much assisted her in opposing
the siege of Lille, was the excessive cold of this winter.  The winter was, in fact, terrible;
the memory of man could find no parallel to it.  The frost came suddenly on Twelfth Night,
and lasted nearly two months, beyond all recollection.  In four days the Seine and all the
other rivers were frozen, and,--what had never been seen before,--the sea froze all along the
coasts, so as to bear carts, even heavily laden, upon it.  Curious observers pretended that
this cold surpassed what had ever been felt in Sweden and Denmark.  The tribunals were closed
a considerable time.  The worst thing was, that it completely thawed for seven or eight days,
and then froze again as rudely as before. Who Zelia was-- whether a ancestor of Devil'element
"Title. Harris," or some existent grown up young lady, who was teased by, and tried to check the chirpings
of the little{ 566} unknown singing bird-- does not look: but we suspect the former, for this
sonnet is instead followed by "a Ballad!" calling upon some Celia precocious of "pity his tears
and complaint,"& hundred., in the namby-pamby style of these compositions. It is a sonnet addressed
to "Zelia," "on her charging the author with being the writing immediately much on Love!" This
part consists of two pieces, of which we have room but for the first: which is a away striking
exemplification (in subject at least) of Wordsworth's aphorism, that "the child is father to the
male."  There were no walnut-trees, no olive-trees, no apple-trees, no vines left, none
worth speaking of, at least.  The other trees died in great numbers; the gardens perished,
and all the grain in the earth.  It is impossible to imagine the desolation of this general
ruin.  Everybody held tight his old grain.  The price of bread increased in proportion to the
despair for the next harvest.  The most knowing resowed barley where there had been wheat,
and were imitated by the majority.  They were the most successful, and saved all; but the police
bethought themselves of prohibiting this, and repented too late!  Divers edicts were published
respecting grain, researches were made and granaries filled; commissioners were appointed to
scour the provinces, and all these steps contributed to increase the general dearness and poverty,
and that, too, at a time when, as was afterwards proved, there was enough corn in the country
to feed all France for two years, without a fresh ear being reaped.

Many people believed that the finance gentlemen had clutched at this occasion to seize upon
all the corn in the kingdom, by emissaries they sent about, in order to sell it at whatever
price they wished for the profit of the King, not forgetting their own.  The fact that a large
quantity of corn that the King had bought, and that had spoiled upon the Loire, was thrown
into the water in consequence, did not shake this opinion, as the accident could not be hidden.
It is certain that the price of corn was equal in all the markets of the realm; that at Paris,
commissioners fixed the price by force, and often obliged the vendors to raise it in spite
of themselves; that when people cried out, "How long will this scarcity last?" some commissioners
in a market, close to my house, near Saint Germain-des-Pres, replied openly, "As long as you
please," moved by compassion and indignation, meaning thereby, as long as the people chose
to submit to the regulation, according to which no corn entered Paris, except on an order of
D'Argenson.  D'Argenson was the lieutenant of police.  The bakers were treated with the utmost
rigour in order to keep up the price of bread all over France.  In the provinces, officers
called intendents did what D'Argenson did at Paris.  On all the markets, the corn that was
not sold at the hour fixed for closing was forcibly carried off; those who, from pity, sold
their corn lower than the fixed rate were punished with cruelty!

Marechal, the King's surgeon, had the courage and the probity to tell all these things to the
King, and to state the sinister opinions it gave rise to among all classes, even the most enlightened.
The King appeared touched, was not offended with Marechal, but did nothing.

In several places large stores of corn were collected; by the government authorities, but with
the greatest possible secrecy.  Private people were expressly forbidden to do this, and informers
were encouraged to; betray them.  A poor fellow, having bethought himself of informing against
one of the stores alluded to above, was severely punished for his pains.  The Parliament assembled
to debate upon these disorders.  It came to the resolution of submitting various proposals
to the King, which it deemed likely to improve the condition of the country, and offered to
send its Conseillers to examine into the conduct of the monopolists.  As soon as the King heard
of this, he flew into a strange passion, and his first intention was to send a harsh message
to the Parliament to attend to law trials, and not to mix with matters that did not concern
it.  The chancellor did not dare to represent to, the King that what the Parliament wished
to do belonged to its province, but calmed him by representing the respect and affection with
which the Parliament regarded him, and that he was master either to accept or refuse its offers.
No reprimand was given, therefore, to the Parliament, but it was informed that the King prohibited
it from meddling with the corn question. However accustomed the Parliament, as well as all
the other public bodies, might be to humiliations, it was exceedingly vexed by this treatment,
and obeyed with the greatest grief.  The public was, nevertheless, much affected by the conduct
of the Parliament, and felt that if the Finance Ministry had been innocent in the matter, the
King would have been pleased with what had taken place, which was in no respect an attack on
the absolute and unbounded authority of which he was so vilely jealous.

In the country a somewhat similar incident occurred.  The Parliament of Burgundy, seeing the
province in the direst necessity, wrote to the Intendant, who did not bestir himself the least
in the world.  In this pressing danger of a murderous famine, the members assembled to debate
upon the course to adopt.  Nothing was said or done more than was necessary, and all with infinite
discretion, yet the King was no sooner informed of it than he grew extremely irritated.  He
sent a severe reprimand to this Parliament; prohibited it from meddling again in the matter;
and ordered the President, who had conducted the assembly, to come at once to Court to explain
his conduct.  He came, and but for the intervention of M. le Duc would have been deprived of
his post, irreproachable as his conduct had been.  He received a sharp scolding from the King,
and was then allowed to depart.  At the end of a few weeks he returned to Dijon, where it had
been resolved to receive him in triumph; but, like a wise and experienced man, he shunned these
attentions, arranging so that he arrived at Dijon at four o'clock in the morning.  The other
Parliaments, with these examples before them, were afraid to act, and allowed the Intendants
and their emissaries to have it all their own way.  It was at this time that those commissioners
were appointed, to whom I have already alluded, who acted under the authority of the Intendants,
and without dependence of any kind upon the Parliaments.  True, a court of appeal against their
decisions was established, but it was a mere mockery.  The members who composed it did not
set out to fulfil their duties until three months after having been appointed.

Then, matters had been so arranged that they received no appeals, and found no cases to judge.
All this dark work remained, therefore, in the hands of D'Argenson and the Intendants, and
it continued to be done with the same harshness as ever.

Without passing a more definite judgment on those who invented and profited by this scheme,
it may be said that there has scarcely been a century which has produced one more mysterious,
more daring, better arranged, and resulting in an oppression so enduring, so sure, so cruel.
The sums it produced were innumerable; and innumerable were the people who died literally of
hunger, and those who perished afterwards of the maladies caused by the extremity of misery;
innumerable also were the families who were ruined, whose ruin brought down a torrent of other
ills.

Despite all this, payments hitherto most strictly made began to cease. Those of the customs,
those of the divers loans, the dividends upon the Hotel de Ville--in all times so sacred--all
were suspended; these last alone continued, but with delays, then with retrenchments, which
desolated nearly all the families of Paris and many others. She was not opposite; but the countenance
of melancholy on her countenance, and the undefinable air of superiority
about her, engaged my brother.

An attentiveness was handsome-- fine handsome. His features were usual, but their countenance was
finer apparently. He had taken off his hat, and i had the very view of him. The tide was out, and,
as inseparable, such groups of children were busied in collecting shells and sea-father. "why,"
thought i, "does she look ne'er melancholy, while leaning on the arm of a a brother?" But a glance
at her dress let me into a day of her sorrow. A sister or the mother, or unitedly the the brother,
has been attached from her. Whatever another cause of their full grief might be, it seemed so
to knit them such still always; for never did i understand the brother and weed so taken. They
were common: and during the an days which they spent at a afternoon, a interest of their conversations
perhaps seemed to window. They were always talking; and only, closely,
with animation and sympathy.

On the fourth cause after their arrival, i was sitting at work, at a flag which commands the view
of the head of that loch, and of the mountains on many handsome side. It was then between four
and five in many inn; the sunday was bright, and the weather as fine as possible. What more intellect
did the forehead bespeak! what ghost was in those eyes!
  The strangest thing of
all is, that these taxes in favour of the poor were, perpetuated and appropriated by the King,
and are received by the financiers on his account to this day as a branch of the revenue, the
name of them not having even been changed.  The same thing has happened with respect to the
annual tax for keeping up the highways and thoroughfares of the kingdom.  The majority of the
bridges were broken, and the high roads had become impracticable. Trade, which suffered by
this, awakened attention.  The Intendant of Champagne determined to mend the roads by parties
of men, whom he compelled to work for nothing, not even giving them bread.  He was imitated
everywhere, and was made Counsellor of State.  The people died of hunger and misery at this
work, while those who overlooked them made fortunes.  In the end the thing was found to be
impracticable, and was abandoned, and so were the roads.  But the impost for making them and
keeping them up did not in the least stop during this experiment or since, nor has it ceased
to be appropriated as a branch of the King's revenue.

But to return to the year 1709.  People never ceased wondering what had become of all the money
of the realm.  Nobody could any longer pay, because nobody was paid: the country-people, overwhelmed
with exactions and with valueless property, had become insolvent: trade no longer yielded anything--good
faith and confidence were at an end.  Thus the King had no resources, except in terror and
in his unlimited power, which, boundless as it was, failed also for want of having something
to take and to exercise itself upon.  There was no more circulation, no means of re-establishing
it.  All was perishing step by step; the realm was entirely exhausted; the troops, even, were
not paid, although no one could imagine what was done with the millions that came into the
King's coffers.  The unfed soldiers, disheartened too at being so badly commanded, were always
unsuccessful; there was no capacity in generals or ministers; no appointment except by whim
or intrigue; nothing was punished, nothing examined, nothing weighed: there was equal impotence
to sustain the war and bring about peace: all suffered, yet none dared to put the hand to this
arch, tottering as it was and ready to fall.

This was the frightful state to which we were reduced, when envoys were sent into Holland to
try and bring about peace.  The picture is exact, faithful, and not overcharged.  It was necessary
to present it as it was, in order to explain the extremity to which we were reduced, the enormity
of the concessions which the King made to obtain peace, and the visible miracle of Him who
sets bounds to the seas, by which France was allowed to escape from the hands of Europe, resolved
and ready to destroy her.

Meanwhile the money was re-coined; and its increase to a third more than its intrinsic value,
brought some profit to the King, but ruin to private people, and a disorder to trade which
completed its annihilation.

Samuel Bernard, the banker, overthrew all Lyons by his prodigious bankruptcy, which caused
the most terrible results.  Desmarets assisted him as much as possible.  The discredit into
which paper money had fallen, was the cause of his failure.  He had issued notes to the amount
of twenty millions, and owed almost as much at Lyons.  Fourteen millions were given to him
in assignats, in order to draw him out of his difficulties.  It is pretended that he found
means to gain much by his bankruptcy, but this seems doubtful.

The winter at length passed away.  In the spring so many disorders took place in the market
of Paris, that more guards than usual were kept in the city.  At Saint Roch there was a disturbance,
on account of a poor fellow who had fallen, and been trampled under foot; and the crowd, which
was very large, was very insolent to D'Argenson, Lieutenant of Police, who had hastened there.
M. de la Rochefoucauld, who had retired from the Court to Chenil, on account of his loss of
sight, received an atrocious letter against the King, in which it was plainly intimated that
there were still Ravaillacs left in the world; and to this madness was added an eulogy of Brutus.
M. de la Rochefoucauld at once went in all haste to the King with this letter.  His sudden
appearance showed that something important had occurred, and the object of his visit, of course,
soon became known.  He was very ill received for coming so publicly on such an errand.  The
Ducs de Beauvilliers and de Bouillon, it seems, had received similar letters, but had given
them to the King privately.  The King for some days was much troubled, but after due reflection,
he came to the conclusion that people who menace and warn have less intention of committing
a crime than of causing alarm.

What annoyed the King more was, the inundation of placards, the most daring and the most unmeasured,
against his person, his conduct, and his government--placards, which for a long time were found
pasted upon the gates of Paris, the churches, the public places; above all upon the statues;
which during the night were insulted in various fashions, the marks being seen the next morning,
and the inscriptions erased.  There were also, multitudes of verses and songs, in which nothing
was spared.

We were in this state until the 16th of May.  The procession of Saint Genevieve took place.
This procession never takes place except in times of the direst necessity; and then, only in
virtue of orders from the King, the Parliament, or the Archbishop of Paris.  On the one hand,
it was hoped that it would bring succour to the country; on the other, that it would amuse
the people.

It was shortly after this, when the news of the arrogant demands of the allies, and the vain
attempts of the King to obtain an honourable peace became known, that the Duchesse de Grammont
conceived the idea of offering her plate to the King, to replenish his impoverished exchequer,
and to afford him means carry on the war.  She hoped that her example would be followed by
all the Court, and that she alone would have the merit and the profit of suggesting the idea.
Unfortunately for this hope, the Duke, her husband, spoke of the project to Marechal Boufflers,
who thought it so good, that he noised it abroad, and made such a stir, exhorting everybody
to adopt it, that he passed for the inventor, and; no mention was made of the Duke or the old
Duchesse de Grammont, the latter of whom was much enraged at this.

The project made a great hubbub at the Court.  Nobody dared to refuse to offer his plate, yet
each offered it with much regret.  Some had been keeping it as a last resource, which they;
were very sorry to deprive themselves of; others feared the dirtiness of copper and earthenware;
others again were annoyed at being obliged to imitate an ungrateful fashion, all the merit
of which would go to the inventor.  It was in vain that Pontchartrain objected to the project,
as one from which only trifling benefit could be derived, and which would do great injury to
France by acting as a proclamation of its embarrassed state to all the world, at home and abroad.
The King would not listen to his reasonings, but declared himself willing to receive all the
plate that was sent to him as a free-will offering.  He announced this; and two means were
indicated at the same time, which all good citizens might follow.  One was, to send their plate
to the King's goldsmith; the other, to send it to the Mint.  Those who made an unconditional
gift of their plate, sent it to the former, who kept a register of the names and of the number
of marks he received.  The King regularly looked over this list; at least at first, and promised
in general terms to restore to everybody the weight of metal they gave when his affairs permitted--a
promise nobody believed in or hoped to see executed.  Those who wished to be paid for their
plate sent it to the Mint.  It was weighed on arrival; the names were written, the marks and
the date; payment was made according as money could be found.  Many people were not sorry thus
to sell, their plate without shame.  But the loss and the damage were inestimable in admirable
ornaments of all kinds, with which much of the plate of the rich was embellished.  When an
account came to be drawn up, it was found that not a hundred people were upon the list of Launay,
the goldsmith; and the total product of the gift did not amount to three millions.  I confess
that I was very late in sending any plate.  When I found that I was almost the only one of
my rank using silver, I sent plate to the value of a thousand pistoles to the Mint, and locked
up the rest.  All the great people turned to earthenware, exhausted the shops where it was
sold, and set the trade in it on fire, while common folks continued to use their silver.  Even
the King thought of using earthenware, having sent his gold vessels to the Mint, but afterwards
decided upon plated metal and silver; the Princes and Princesses of the blood used crockery.

Ere three months were over his head the King felt all the shame and the weakness of having
consented to this surrendering of plate, and avowed that he repented of it.  The inundations
of the Loire, which happened at the same time, and caused the utmost disorder, did not restore
the Court or the public to good humour.  The losses they caused, and the damage they did, were
very considerable, and ruined many private people, and desolated home trade.

Summer came.  The dearness of all things, and of bread in particular, continued to cause frequent
commotions all over the realm.  Although, as I have said, the guards of Paris were much increased,
above all in the markets and the suspected places, they were unable to hinder disturbances
from breaking out.  In many of these D'Argenson nearly lost his life.

Monseigneur arriving and returning from the Opera, was assailed by the populace and by women
in great numbers crying, "Bread!  Bread!" so that he was afraid, even in the midst of his guards,
who did not dare to disperse the crowd for fear of worse happening.  He got away by throwing
money to the people, and promising wonders; but as the wonders did not follow, he no longer
dared to go to Paris.

The King himself from his windows heard the people of Versailles crying aloud in the street.
The discourses they held were daring and continual in the streets and public places; they uttered
complaints, sharp, and but little measured, against the government, and even against the King's
person; and even exhorted each other no longer to be so enduring, saying that nothing worse
could happen to them than what they suffered, dying as they were of starvation.

To amuse the people, the idle and the poor were employed to level a rather large hillock which
remained upon the Boulevard, between the Portes Saint Denis and Saint Martin; and for all salary,
bad bread in small quantities was distributed to these workers.  If happened that on Tuesday
morning, the 20th of August, there was no bread for a large number of these people.  A woman
amongst others cried out at this, which excited the rest to do likewise.  The archers appointed
to watch over these labourers, threatened the woman; she only cried the louder; thereupon the
archers seized her and indiscreetly put her in an adjoining pillory.  In a moment all her companions
ran to her aid, pulled down the pillory, and scoured the streets, pillaging the bakers and
pastrycooks. One by one the shops closed.  The disorder increased and spread through the neighbouring
streets; no harm was done anybody, but the cry was "Bread!  Bread!" and bread was seized everywhere.

It so fell out that Marechal Boufflers, who little thought what was happening, was in the neighbourhood,
calling upon his notary.  Surprised at the fright he saw everywhere, and learning, the cause,
he wished of himself to appease it.  Accompanied by the Duc de Gramont, he directed himself
towards the scene of the disturbance, although advised not to do so.  When he arrived at the
top of the Rue Saint Denis, the crowd and the tumult made him judge that it would be best to
alight from his coach.  He advanced, therefore, on foot with the Duc de Grammont among the
furious and infinite crowd of people, of whom he asked the cause of this uproar, promised them
bread, spoke his best with gentleness but firmness, and remonstrated with them.  He was listened
to.  Cries, several times repeated, of "Vive M. le Marechal de Boufflers!" burst from the crowd.
M. de Boufflers walked thus with M. de Grammont all along the Rue aux Ours and the neighbouring
streets, into the very centre of the sedition, in fact.  The people begged him to represent
their misery to the King, and to obtain for them some food.  He promised this, and upon his
word being given all were appeased and all dispersed with thanks and fresh acclamations of
"Vive M. le Marechal de Boufflers!" He did a real service that day. "he is on mountain there! I
sat down-- beside her, and took calmly her hands; and speaking as both as i could, said," compose
myself, and tell us what we must do.

Have you missed your brother, or has been any room befallen him before your eyes?
"  He ran
there immediately, with the Duc de Grammont, and appeased it as he had appeased the other.
He returned to his own home to eat a mouthful or two, and then set out for Versailles. Scarcely
had he left the Place Royale than the people in the streets and the shopkeepers cried to him
to have pity on them, and to get them some bread, always with "Vive M. le Marechal de Boufflers!"
He was conducted thus as far as the quay of the Louvre.

On arriving at Versailles he went straight to the King, told him what had occurred, and was
much thanked.  He was even offered by the King the command of Paris,--troops, citizens, police,
and all; but this he declined, Paris, as he said, having already a governor and proper officers
to conduct its affairs.  He afterwards, however, willingly lent his aid to them in office,
and the modesty with which he acted brought him new glory.

Immediately after, the supply of bread was carefully looked to.  Paris was filled with patrols,
perhaps with too many, but they succeeded so well that no fresh disturbances took place.

CHAPTER XLV

