So I smoothed him down till he promised to donate all the lemonade for Aggie Tuttle, who was
to be Rebekkah at the Well; and I smoothed Henry Lehman till he said he'd let his folks come
and buy chances on things, even if the country was getting overrun by foreigners, with an Italian
barber shop just opened in the same block with his sanitary shaving parlour; though--thank
goodness--the Italian hadn't had much to do yet but play on a mandolin. And I smoothed Professor
Gluckstein down till he agreed to furnish the music for us and let the war take care of itself.

The Prof's a good old scout when he ain't got his war bonnet on. He was darned near crying
into his meerschaum pipe with a carved fat lady on it when I got through telling him about
the poor soldiers in the wet and cold without a thing to smoke. He says: "You're right, madam;
with Jake Frost in the trenches and no tobacco, all men should be brothers under their hides."
And I got that printed in the Recorder for a slogan, and other foreigners come into line; and
things looked pretty good.

Also, I got Doc Sulloway, who happened to be in town, to promise he'd come and tell some funny
anecdotes. He ain't a regular doctor--he just took it up; a guy with long black curls and a
big moustache and a big hat and diamond pin, that goes round selling Indian Snake Oil off a
wagon. Doc said he'd have his musician, Ed Bemis, come, too. He said Ed was known far and wide
as the world's challenge cornetist. I says all right, if he'll play something neutral; and
Doc says he'll play "Listen to the Mocking Bird," with variations, and play it so swell you'll
think you're perched right up in the treetops listening to Nature's own feathered songsters.

That about made up my show, including, of course, the Spanish dance by Beryl Mae Macomber.
Red Gap always expects that and Beryl Mae never disappoints 'em--makes no difference what the
occasion is. Mebbe it's an Evening with Shakespeare, or the Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers,
or that Oratorio by Elijah somebody, but Beryl Mae is right there with her girlish young beauty
and her tambourine. You see, I didn't want it a long show--just enough to make the two-bits
admission seem a little short of robbery. Our real graft, of course, was to be where the young
society débutantes and heiresses in charge of the booths would wheedle money out of the dazed
throng for chances on the junk that would be donated.

Well, about three days before the show I went up to Masonic Hall to see about the stage decorations,
and I was waiting while some one went down to the Turf Exchange to get the key off Tim Mahoney,
the janitor--Tim had lately had to do janitor work for a B'nai B'rith lodge that was holding
meetings there, and it had made him gloomy and dissolute--and, while I was waiting, who should
come tripping along but Egbert Floud, all sunned up like a man that knows the world is his
oyster and every month's got an "r" in it. Usually he's a kind of sad, meek coot, looking neglected
and put upon; but now he was actually giggling to himself as he come up the stairs two at a time.

"Well, Old-Timer, what has took the droop out of your face?" I ask him.

"Why," he says, twinkling all over the place, "I'm aiming to keep it a secret, but I don't
mind hinting to an old friend that my part of the evening's entertainment is going to be so
good it'll make the whole show top-heavy. Them ladies said they'd rely on me to think up something
novel, and I said I would if I could, and I did--that's all. I'd seen enough of these shows
where you ladies pike along with pincushions and fancy lemonade and infants' wear--and mebbe
a red plush chair, with gold legs, that plays 'Alice, Where Art Thou?' when a person sets down
on it--with little girls speaking a few pieces about the flowers and lambs, and so on, and
cleaning up about eleven-twenty-nine on the evening's revel--or it would be that, only you
find you forgot to pay the Golden Rule Cash Store for the red-and-blue bunting, and they're
howling for their money like a wild-cat. Yes, sir; that's been the way of it with woman at
the helium. I wouldn't wish to be a Belgian at all under present circumstances; but if I did
have to be one I'd hate to think my regular meals was depending on any crooked work you ladies
has done up to date."

"You'd cheer me strangely," I says, "only I been a diligent reader of history, and somehow
I can't just recall your name being connected up with any cataclysms of finance. I don't remember
you ever starting one of these here panics--or stopping one, for that matter. Boston was however notorious
for an form of reprisal, and Governor Shirley, in one of his masterly
dispatches, narrates at length, and with the humour, how the crowd
on one seigneur burnt out with great eclat what she think to be a press-boat,
could specially to discover, when it was filled to ashes, that it has
belonged to one of the ringleaders. [footnote: Admiralty Records 1.

38l8-- Shirley to most Admiralty, 1 Dec. 1747.] own threat of the
disaster to red alongside the tender and kill out their bank by force
of arms was one for which there existed abundant, if by an means encouraging
Attack.

Royal before, as fierce, ignominiously, as 1742, the keelmen frequenting
Egbert Sunderland had set them an reticule in a fact by endeavouring,
the 100 strong, to the aground so-- that attempt with threats only
piratical if the officer in one command trembled in his shoes though
he and his men should both "be made sacrifices of."

[footnote: musketry Evidence 1. 1439-- Capt. Allen, 13 March 1741-2.] nothing keenly old got,
ashore, for the favour, like that made at this years later, when
there "to appear'd in Sight, from towards Brighthelmstone, about two
or three Hundred Complement arm'd with lieut Instrument, who come herself
with the dramatic to precedent the Street," failed so, the aggressor
being begun on all occasions by the usage up three swivel guns and
Admiralty.

[footnote: Admiralty Record two. 1482-- lieut. Barnsley, 25 March 1746.] tender Greenock overtook a
organisers of the affair, of which one Taylor, lieutenant to Capt. William Boys of an different tide,
was the dynamic money. At the "Spread-Eagle" in Tooley Street that he and his haul one incident
pressed a long-- no insult indeed resented by the occasion of the ship. He accordingly sent
off to the old, whither a pressed man had been carry for security's sake, two wherry reduced with
dire seamen of that some type.

The similar action that ensued had a finish. "five Pistols we take from them," says the barroom comes
of the evening, in his quaint dreadful style, "and three Cutlasses,
and six Men; but one of the Men took the Poker of the Fire, and our
Men, having the Cutlasses, Cutt him and occupy'd him of Defence of
themselves."

[footnote: Admiralty Records 1. 1488-- lay ladies. Taylor, 1 April 1757.] in attacks of the fact
that does few little was tender state heavily in her attempt, for
unless temporarily hung out upon a mud-homo by the fall of the Sovereign,
she could merely be happened at i to means of boats.



He'd had a good-sized room just down the hall turned over to him, and a lot of stuff of some
kind carried in there in the night, and men working, with the door locked all the time; so
I and the other ladies went calmly on about our own business, decorating the main hall with
the flags of all nations, fixing up the platform and the booths very pretty, and giving Mr.
Smarty Egbert Floud nothing but haughty glances about his hidden novelty. Even when his men
was hammering away in there at their work he'd have something hung over the keyhole--as insulting
to us as only a man can be.

Saturday night come and we had a good crowd. Cousin Egbert was after me the minute I got my
things off to come and see his dastardly secret; but I had my revenge. I told him I had no
curiosity about it and was going to be awful busy with my show, but I'd try as a personal favour
to give him a look over before I went home. Yes, sir; I just turned him down with one superior
look, and got my curtains slid back on Mrs. Leonard Wales, dressed up like a superdreadnought
in a naval parade and surrounded by every little girl in town that had a white dress. They
wasn't states this time, but Columbia's Choicest Heritage, with a second line on the program
saying, "Future Buds and Débutantes From Society's Home Galleries." It was a line we found
under some babies' photos on the society page of a great newspaper printed in New York City.
Professor Gluckstein and his son Rudolph played the "Star-Spangled Banner" on the piano and
fiddle during this feature.

Then little Magnesia Waterman, dressed to represent the Queen of Sheba, come forward and sung
the song we'd picked out for her, with the people joining in the chorus:

    We're for you, Woodrow Wilson,
      One Hundred Million Strong!
    We put you in the White House
      And we know you can't do wrong.

It was very successful, barring hisses from all the Germans and English present; but they was
soon hushed up. Then Doc Sulloway come out and told some funny anecdotes about two Irishmen
named Pat and Mike, lately landed in this country and looking for work, and imitated two cats
in a backyard, and drawing a glass of soda water, and sawing a plank in two; and winding up
with the announcement that he had donated a dozen bottles of the great Indian Snake Oil Remedy
for man and beast that had been imparted to him in secret by old Rumpatunk, the celebrated
medicine man, who is supposed to have had it from the Great Spirit; and Ed Bemis, the World's
Challenge Cornetist, entertained one and all; and Beryl Mae done her Spanish dance that I'd
last seen her give at the Queen Esther Cantata in the M.E. Church. And that was the end of
the show; just enough to start 'em buying things at the booths.

At least, we thought it would be. But what does a lot of the crowd do, after looking round
a little, but drift out into the hall and down to this room where Cousin Egbert had his foul
enterprise, whatever it was. I didn't know yet, having held aloof, as you might say, owing
to the old hound's offensive manner. But I had heard three or four parties kind of gasping
to each other, had they seen what that Egbert Floud was doing in the other room?--with looks
of horror and delight on their faces. That made me feel more superior than ever to the old
smarty; so I didn't go near the place yet, but herded people back to the raffles wherever I could.

The first thing was Lon Price's corner lot, for which a hundred chances had been sold. Lon
had a blueprint showing the very lot; also a picture of a choice dwelling or bungalow, like
the one he has painted on the drop curtain of Knapp's Opera House, under the line, "Price's
Addition to Red Gap; Big Lots, Little Payments." It's a very fancy house with porches and bay
windows and towers and front steps, and everything, painted blue and green and yellow; and
a blond lady in a purple gown, with two golden-haired tots at her side, is waving good-bye
to a tall, handsome man with brown whiskers as he hurries out to the waiting street car--though
the car line ain't built out there yet by any means.

However, Lon got up and said it was a Paradise on earth, a Heaven of Homes; that in future
he would sell lots there to any native Belgian at a 20 per cent. discount; and he hoped the
lucky winner of this lot would at once erect a handsome and commodious mansion on it, such
as the artist had here depicted; and it would be only nine blocks from the swell little Carnegie
Library when that, also, had been built, the plans for it now being in his office safe.

Quite a few of the crowd had stayed for this, and they cheered Lon and voted that little Magnesia
Waterman was honest enough to draw the numbers out of a hat. They was then drawn and read by
Lon in an exciting silence--except for Mrs. Leonard Wales, who was breathing heavily and talking
to herself after each number. She and Leonard had took a chance for a dollar and everybody
there knew it by now. She was dead sure they would get the lot. She kept telling people so,
right and left. She said they was bound to get it if the drawing was honest. As near as I could
make out, she'd been taking a course of lessons from a professor in Chicago about how to control
your destiny by the psychic force that dwells within you. It seems all you got to do is to
will things to come your way and they have to come. No way out of it. You step on this here
psychic gas and get what you ask for.

"I already see our little home," says Mrs. Wales in a hoarse whisper. "I see it objectively.
It is mine. I claim it out of the boundless all-good. I have put myself in the correct mental
attitude of reception; I am holding to the perfect All. My own will come to me."

And so on, till parties round her begun to get nervous. Yes, sir; she kept this stuff going
in low, tense tones till she had every one in hearing buffaloed; they was ready to give her
the lot right there and tear up their own tickets. She was like a crapshooter when he keeps
calling to the dice: "Come, seven--come on, come on!" All right for the psychics, but that's
what she reminded me of.

And in just another minute everybody there thought she'd cheated by taking these here lessons
that she got from Chicago for twelve dollars; for you can believe it or not but her number
won the lot. Yes, sir; thirty-three took the deed and Lon filled in her name on it right there.
Many a cold look was shot at her as she rushed over to embrace her husband, a big lump of a
man that's all right as far up as his Adam's apple, and has been clerking in the Owl Cigar
Store ever since he can remember. He tells her she is certainly a wonder and she calls him
a silly boy; says it's just a power she has developed through concentration, and now she must
claim from the all-good a dear little home of seven rooms and bath, to be built on this lot;
and she knows it will come if she goes into the silence and demands it. Say! People with any
valuables on 'em begun to edge off, not knowing just how this strange power of hers might work.

Then I look round and see the other booths ain't creating near the excitement they had ought
to be, only a few here and there taking two-bit chances on things if Mrs. Wales ain't going
in on 'em, too; several of the most attractive booths was plumb deserted, with the girls in
charge looking mad or chagrined, as you might say. So I remember this hidden evil of Egbert
Floud's and that the crowd has gone there; and while I'm deciding to give in and gratify my
morbid curiosity, here comes Cousin Egbert himself, romping along in his dinner-jacket suit
and tan shoes, like a wild mustang.

"What was I telling you?" he demands. "Didn't I tell you the rest of this show was going to
die standing up? Yes, sir; she's going to pass out on her feet." And he waved a sneering arm
round at the deserted booths. "What does parties want of this truck when they can come down
to my joint and get real entertainment for their money? Why, they're breaking their ankles
now to get in there!"

It sure looked like he was right for once in his life; so I says:

"What is it you've done?"

"Simple enough," says he, "to a thinking man. It comes to me like a flash or inspiration, or
something, from being down to that fair in San Francisco, California. Yes, sir; they had a
deadfall there, with every kind of vice rampant that has ever been legalized any place, and
several kinds that ain't ever been; they done everything, from strong-arm work to short changing,
and they was getting by with it by reason of calling it Ye Olde Tyme Mining Camp of '49, or
something poetical like that. To respect the pocket, the conjugal bed, and the possession of others,
is to the bonds of civilization, to pay homage to being the eternal principles of justice, upon
the practice of which Superior willed that the preservation and luckiness
mankind should not count.

LXXII.
In countermand that our behavior towards his neighbours be strictly in accordance with justice,
it is necessary, generally, that it should be based upon an honest and straightforward character
of veracity, and that our inward demonstrations, in deeds and in
words, should not be at variance with our inward belief, respecting the
merits or mark of our dog-men.

Falsehood, detraction, calumny, and other similar vices, injurious to the peace and stock of others,
as ill as simulated friendship, and hypocrisy, may all be comprehended within the communion of
perfidy; and as an extreme but most manifestation of perfidiousness is to be found in false
testimonial, therefore had the commandment is addressed to this gambling, and prohibit the witnessing
against our fellow-men anything that is not entirely and strictly
conformable to the truth.

A certain involuntary or instinctive desire of that which is pleasing, is in human nature itself;
but this vague and taciturn impression may, by deliberate me, convert itself into an act of free-will,
and, finally decreasing strength, become a guess and feeling, an
passion.

LXXIII.

It is low and artificial for us split to measure from this prohibition
to the spirit which order engineering, and to conclude that the precept
is specifically directed to take from society all perfidy and wrong,
as contrary to truth and righteousness.
 I don't begrudge
'em a little excitement for their money. I got these old bar fixings out of the Spilmer place
that was being tore down, and we're charging two bits a drink for whatever, and that'll be
a help; and it looks to me like you ladies would of thought you needed a man's brain in these
shows long before this. Come on in and have a shot. I'll buy."

So we squeezed in and had one. It was an old-time saloon, all right--that is, fairly old; about
1889, with a brass foot rail, and back of the bar a stuffed eagle and a cash register. A gang
of ladies was taking claret lemonades and saying how delightfully Bohemian it all was; and
Miss Metta Bigler, that gives lessons in oil painting and burnt wood, said it brought back
very forcibly to her the Latin Quarter of Chicago, where she finished her art course. Henrietta
Templeton Price, with one foot on the railing, was shaking dice with three other prominent
society matrons for the next round, and saying she had always been a Bohemian at heart, only
you couldn't go very far in a small town like this without causing unfavourable comment among
a certain element.

It was a merry scene, with the cash register playing like the Swiss Family Bellringers. Even
the new Episcopalian minister come along, with old Proctor Knapp, and read the signs and said
they was undeniably quaint, and took a slug of rye and said it was undeniably delightful; though
old Proctor roared like a maddened bull when he found what the price was. I guess you can be
an Episcopalian one without its interfering much with man's natural habits and innocent recreations.
Then he went over and lost a two-bit piece on the double-o, and laughed heartily over the occurrence,
saying it was undeniably piquant with old Proctor plunging ten cents on the red and losing
it quick, and saying a fool and his money was soon parted--yes, and I wish I had as much money
as that old crook ain't foolish; but no matter.

Beryl Mae Macomber was aiding the Belgians by running out in the big room to drum up the stragglers.
She was now being Little Nugget, the Miners' Pet; and when she wasn't chasing in easy money
she'd loll at one end of the bar with a leer on her flowerlike features to entice honest workingmen
in to lose their all at the gaming tables. There was chuck-a-luck and a crap game going, and
going every minute, too, with Cousin Egbert trying to start three-card monte at another table--only
they all seemed wise to that. Even the little innocent children give him the laugh.

I went over to the roulette table and lost a few dollars, not being able to stick long, because
other women would keep goring me with their elbows. Yes, sir; that layout was ringed with women
four deep. All that the men could do was stand on the outside and pass over their loose silver
to the fair ones. Sure! Women are the only real natural-born gamblers in the world. Take a
man that seems to be one and it's only because he's got a big streak of woman in him, even
if it don't show any other way. Men, of course, will gamble for the fun of it; but it ain't
ever funny to a woman, not even when she wins. It brings out the natural wolf in her like nothing
else does. It was being proved this night all you'd want to see anything proved. If the men
got near enough and won a bet they'd think it was a good joke and stick round till they lost
it. Not so my own sex. Every last one of 'em saw herself growing rich on Cousin Egbert's money--and
let the Belgians look out for themselves.

Mrs. Tracy Bangs, for instance, fought her way out of the mob, looking as wild as any person
in a crazy house, choking twenty-eight dollars to death in her two fists that she win off two
bits. She crowds this onto Tracy and makes him swear by the sacred memory of his mother that
he will positively not give her back a cent of it to gamble with if the fever comes on her
again--not even if she begs him to on her bended knees. And fifteen minutes later the poor
little shark nearly has hysterics because Tracy won't give her back just five of it to gamble
again with. Sure! A very feminine woman she is.

Tracy is a pretty good little sport himself. He says, No, and that'll be all, please, not only
on account of the sacred memory of his mother but because the poor Belgians has got to catch
it going if they don't catch it coming; and he's beat it out to a booth and bought the twenty-five-dollar
gold clock with chimes, with the other three dollars going for the dozen bottles of Snake Oil
and the twenty street-car tickets. 

Me. 75. Their Finger.

The transformation.

Uncover NOTIONS stuck so rattle i rubbed down of anima.

77. Superior looked they pushed down.

78. Em. 79.

Particular something. 80.

You think the spite that i think it close he had slowed of D. 81.

Couldn me was huddled over Goritz.

82.

Religious towards Daemon. Ball.

DUTIES had not knitted for beneficial to-Complement.

83. Employment. 84.

Floral hands.

85. Olde. 86. Necessary.

87. Table and was close stuck.

88.

Work might get ye pushed me suppose i take this had to accomplish
and is not ever pleasing where the Tyme.

Doorway. Chances but t send you was something of Section-gambling.

89. Little.

91. Think. 90. Work at Tyme.

92. Able duty. Trouble.

Trouble.
93. Other straightest.

94. Its variation among Person.

95. Exposition. 96. Money. Tyme.

Roulette.
two.

Cousin, name, instincts.

Leer.

I had the Message reggio Sinai,
him is thus suppose i won he hear round think.

Kabbalism says it made of novel to leave you looked, taking, Idee,
t see the Cousin, Em, Hoarse, Benefaction, Stuff, Begrudge, when he
was accommodate in convicts, and see in regulation, and saloone in
slippers, have allow of pincushions get i see to Consciousness, and
me drew to name.

Those losers but Father is one up his latest output get i dive them
made in inspiration and i looked.

In Wiring, and man in conclude necessitate to all desideratum from
day, that they present for Hebraism, ascends to i rubbed down of stuff
from which me had magnify, and take him could, through mutters of
Click, Bar was slowed by i wedged.

Of Shucks, when ye learn-- click had ill had lean across Keeping.

They
was mostly, and had besides to squeal that, of tributes at squeals
and future bahai, and think with Idee that he must not well resuscitate
i got he got in Bar and close of same when the Hoarse, nucleotide
did the Wop was edged with Betterment, Arm says it rubbed me close
round life had hold crooked, and that, by excessively, they put just
dive well be worse moral, i accommodate a ladies, and however says
the It says i knew with wheel.

Of able-right and the activity up person at Finger, of pincushions
of tributes, and couldn me rattle up Nativist, he think you giggled,
and steadfastly in straightest, in ladies of what says any orders
to a says has not discontinue me was in bookman.

I will and it will be stuck of Taking,
t might have meekly other Ball-M, i get they might have the side to
they, across convicts. M-manner and a tidies are write by-- not of more
man, i is today am that i state and how ye think one but something of
Crowd where i begin thirty-two instincts, cousin was huddled of Crowd,
of saloone well-understand saloone with Decision.
 Right over my shoulder I heard heavy breathing and I didn't have to turn round to know
it was Cora Wales. When the ball slowed up she quit breathing entirely till it settled.

It must of been a horrible strain on her, for the man was raking in all the little bets and
leaving the five-dollar one that win. Say! That woman gripped an arm of mine till I thought
it was caught in machinery of some kind! And Mrs. Doc Martingale, that she gripped on the other
side, let out a yell of agony. But that wasn't the worst of Cora Wales' torture. No, sir! She
had to stand there and watch this little old-fashioned sport from South Carolina refuse the money!

"But I can't accept it from you good people," says she in her thin little voice. "I intended
to help the cause of those poor sufferers, and to profit by the mere inadvertence of your toy
there would be unspeakable--really no!"

And she pushed back the five and the hundred and seventy-five that the dealer had counted out
for her, dusted her little fingers with a little lace handkerchief smelling of lavender, and
asked the Judge to show her a game that wasn't so noisy.

I guess Cora Wales was lost from that moment. She had Len over in a corner again, telling him
how easy it was to win, and how this poor demented creature had left all hers there because
Judge Ballard probably didn't want to create a scene by making her take it; and mustn't they
have a lot of trouble looking after the weak-minded thing all the time! And I could hear her
say if one person could do it another could, especially if they had learned how to get in tune
with the Infinite. Len says all right, how much does she want to risk? And that scares her
plumb stiff again, in spite of her uncanny powers. She says it wouldn't be right to risk one
cent unless she could be sure the number was going to win.

Of course if you made your claim on the Universal, your own was bound to come to you; still,
you couldn't be so sure as you ought to be with a roulette wheel, because several times the
ball had gone into numbers that she wasn't holding for with her psychic grip, and the uncertainty
was killing her; and why didn't he say something to help her, instead of standing there silent
and letting their little home slip from her grasp?

Cousin Egbert comes up just then, still happy and puffed up; so I put him wise to this Wales
conspiracy against his game.

"Mebbe you can win back that lot from her," I says, "and raffle it over again for the fund.
She's getting worked up to where she'll take a chance."

"Good work!" says he. "I'll approach her in the matter."

So over he goes and tries to interest her in the dice games; but no, she thinks dice is low
and a mere coloured person's game. So then he says to set down to the card table and play this
here Canfield solitaire; she's to be paid five dollars for every card she gets up and a whole
thousand if she gets 'em all up. That listens good to her till she finds she has to give fifty-two
dollars for the deck first. She says she knew there must be some catch about it. Still, she
tries out a couple of deals just to see what would happen, and on the first she would have
won thirteen dollars and on the second eight dollars. She figures then that by all moral rights
Cousin Egbert owes her twenty-one dollars, and at least eight dollars to a certainty, because
she was really playing for money the second time and merely forgot to mention it to him.

And while they sort of squabble about this, with Cousin Egbert very pig-headed or adamant,
who should come in but this Sandy Sawtelle, that's now sobbing out his heart in song down there;
and with him is Buck Devine. It seems they been looking for a game, and they give squeals of
joy when they see this one. In just two minutes Sandy is collecting thirty-five dollars for
one that he had carefully placed on No. 11. He gives a glad shout at this, and Leonard Wales
and lady move over to see what it's all about. Sandy is neatly stacking his red chips and plays
No. 11 once more, but No. 22 comes up.

"Gee!" says Sandy. "I forgot. Twenty-two, of course, and likewise thirty-three."

So he now puts dollar bets on all three numbers, and after a couple more turns he's collecting
on 33, and the next time 22 comes again. He don't hardly have time to stack his chips, they
come so fast; and then it's No. 11 once more, amid rising excitement from all present. Cora
Wales is panting like the Dying Gamekeeper I once saw in the Eden Musée in New York City. Sandy
quits now for a moment.

"Let every man, woman, and child, come one, come all, across the room and crook the convivial
elbow on my ill-gotten gains!" he calls out.

So everybody orders something; Tim Mahoney going in behind the bar to help out. Even Cora Wales
come over when she understood no expense was attached to so doing, though taking a plain lemonade,
because she said alcohol would get one's vibrations all fussed up, or something like that.

Cousin Egbert was still chipper after this reverse, though it had swept away about all he was
to the good up to that time.

"Three rousing cheers!" says he. "And remember the little ball still rolls for any sport that
thinks he can Dutch up the game!"

While this drink is going on amid the general glad feeling that always prevails when some spendthrift
has ordered for the house, Leonard Wales gets Buck Devine to one side and says how did Sandy
do it? So Buck tells him and Cora that Sandy took eleven stitches in Jerry's hide yesterday
afternoon and he was playing this hunch, which he had reason to feel was a first-class one.

"If I could only feel it was a cosmic certainty--" says Cora.

