Very often the original handle can be restored and made sound. Thus, when the screw hole becomes
worn and the "cup" (see Fig. 39, which shows the two "cups," that at the extremity of the stick
and that in the "tip") broken, it is customary to drill out the hole, turn up a piece of well-seasoned
bow wood in the lathe to the exact diameter of the enlarged hole, and glue it well in place.
When thoroughly dry a new screw hole of the original dimensions can be drilled just as in making
a new bow. Sometimes, when there are cracks in the handle, the trench has to be filled up and
re-cut, as is also done to the head if it is cracked through the pressure of the plug (Fig.
40a). Repairs to the nut are also done when the nut is original, i.e., when it belongs to the
bow and is of a distinguished maker. Old nuts frequently get cracked down the sides where they
come in contact with the stick. In this case the worn part of the nut is cut away and new wood
glued on and worked up to the original shape. I have seen a nut so restored by Mr. Tubbs in
which it was absolutely impossible to discover where the new piece was joined on.

With regard to the screw hole, it often becomes worn to an oval shape just above the trench
owing to the screw being too short. This is frequently found in old French bows, even by the
best makers, and causes the unsightly tilting of the tip. In Fig. 41 is shown a section of
the nut and handle showing the action of the screw and the way the hair is inserted. The screw
in this diagram is the exact length necessary to prevent the wearing away of the hole described
above.

Bow repairers are often perplexed as to their customers' meaning when sending instructions
by post for the restoration of the "tip," as many people use this word to denote the extremity
of the head (Fig. 40d).

This, however, is known to experts as the "peak," and the word "tip" is applied solely to the
octagonal piece at the opposite end of the bow, by means of which the screw is turned and the
tension of the hair regulated.

In some bows the octagonal portion, known as the handle (Fig. 38d) on which the nut travels
has the lower face rather larger than the rest as in the section shown in Fig. 42. The object
of this enlargement is to give the nut a broader surface to travel on and thus prevent the
tendency to rock exhibited by some nuts. But, though there is some merit in the idea it has
been found that the rocking can be avoided in a normal bow having the eight sides of the handle
equal by extra care in fitting. And though the other pattern may be easier to fit in the first
instance, the projecting sides of the nut that travel on the adjacent faces of the handle are
very small and weak; consequently before long the nut shows longitudinal cracks at this part
and becomes extremely rocky, though from a different cause.

One of the most frequent repairs is the operation of re-facing. The handsome central gasalier
of the modern room is a great enemy to the violin and seems to lie in wait for the peak of
an unwary violinist's bow. Fortunately the damage is not very serious, and an experienced bow
repairer will not be long in restoring the head to its original elegance of outline.

CHAPTER XII.

RE-LAPPING--RE-HAIRING--CHOICE OF ROSIN. 

I think an interesting comparison between these plant of one intellect could be easily made of a circumstance
of much acknowledged turn of mind.

Location.-- a more ingenious consideration would be, the effect make by a national hill, upon the mere
man of the modes of preparing the different beverages of different countries. More of the metaphysical
wine of the inhabitants by inferiority countries, arises from the circumstance
of having their liquor prepared to their hand. Odoherty.-- a, my friend,
more. This consists of whalebone, sometimes bleached or dyed, and
is practically indestructible. Bound on in alternate strands of different colours it has a
very effective and neat appearance.

Sometimes the ordinary thread lapping gets cut through and interferes with the player, and
it is as well to know how to fasten it off at once. I will assume that it is cut at the end
nearest the nut (where it usually happens). Take out the screw and wind the hair loosely but
securely round the upper part of the bow. Then unwind the lapping for about an inch and a half.
Take a piece of strong thread and double it, then place it on the bow with the doubled end
towards the handle. Get a kind friend to hold the end of the lapping cord firmly and commence
winding it on again evenly and over the doubled thread by slowly rotating the bow. When within
half an inch of the end of the thread, take it all in your own hand and pass the end through
the loop of doubled thread and, taking the loose ends of the thread that will hang out at the
point where you started re-winding, pull the doubled thread smartly out. This brings the end
of the lapping right through under the re-wound portion, where it will be held secure until
again cut through by the thumb-nail. This is the method employed in fastening off new lappings.
If you have not the time or patience to do it this way a little sealing wax will hold the loose
end down during an evening's practice.

Considering that re-hairing is one of the most natural and most frequent events in the life
of a bow, it seems somewhat anomalous to include it under the heading of "repairs." However,
I will crave the reader's kind indulgence for so doing.

At the outset I must emphatically assert that I do not advise amateurs or artists to attempt
to hair their own bows if any value attaches to them, for it is astonishing how soon even a
fine bow will lose its cambre if persistently haired in an unskilful manner. It requires enormous
experience to enable one to get the pull of the hair equal in every case, and the slightest
extra pull on one side or the other gives the bow a twist that renders its action erratic and
extremely disturbing to a good violinist. The preceding operation to re-hairing is that of
unhairing. This is comparatively a simple matter. The hair is first cut off short at each end,
then hair at the head is lifted up to disclose the plug (Fig. 40a). This is readily lifted
out with a pointed tool, and the curled up knot lying beneath is pulled out. So much for the
head. The nut is slightly more complex. First the ferrule (Fig. 41d) is pulled off and the
slide (Fig. 41f) is pushed out. After this the hair is raised as with the head, and the plug
(Fig. 41e) picked out in the same manner. The wedge in the nut (Fig. 41c) is used to spread
the hair and keep it firm at the heel, to give a good attack for heavy down strokes. This is
usually destroyed in unhairing, as it frequently has to be cut away, owing to its being glued
into position.

The process of re-hairing is now identical with that of hairing a new bow in the first instance.
Some keep the hair ready made up into "hanks" of the right quantity for a bow, and others have
it in large bundles, pulling it out as required. One soon gets practice in this to judge by
the eye alone how much will be sufficient. At one end it is tied securely with waxed silk or
thread, and the short ends are cut off to within about a sixteenth of an inch from the thread.
To prevent the thread being pulled off the end of the hair, the ends are burnt with rosin so
as to spread them out slightly (very slightly) mushroom wise, over the thread binding. The
usual way of doing this is to fill the short end--which resembles a small stencil brush--with
finely powdered rosin and then, by pressing it against a red-hot iron, to shape it into a firm,
unyielding knot. This knot is laid in the trench of the head, and the plug pressed firmly into
position, so that its upper surface is exactly level with that of the plate or face. The hair,
of course, must be brought over the wedge in an even ribbon. The hair should now be well combed
with a fine comb and then steeped, coil fashion, in warm water for several minutes. It then
should be thoroughly combed again from top to bottom, holding it firmly the while at the lower
end. The nut is now placed in position with the screw-eye rather above the centre of the slot
in which it travels, then a careful estimate is made of the length of hair required to go just
far enough round the plug (Fig. 41e) to be secure, and a knot exactly like the one described
for the head is made at the point decided on. This requires considerable experience, as it
is very easy to make it too long or vice versa, both of which faults hamper the nicety of adjustment
of tension required for some particular style of bowing technique. When this lower knot is
made the ferrule is slipped over the hair, the knot is laid in the trench and the plug put
in as before--the nut being completely detached from the stick. The nut is then re-adjusted
and slightly screwed up. The hair is then combed again, the slide pushed in, and the ferrule
slipped over the extremity of the nut. After this a thin wedge is driven in (behind the hair)
usually with a spot of glue on the side next the hair, as at c, in Fig. 41. The bow is now
haired, and all that remains to make it ready for use is to rosin it. As new hair never bites
on a block of rosin, it is necessary to spread a quantity of powdered rosin on a card or sheet
of stout paper and rub the hair over it till it is quite full; after this it will take freely
from the block. A newly haired bow is always extremely rough and is apt to produce a harsh,
scratchy tone, but this defect wears off in a very short time.

I must again repeat my opinion regarding the inadvisability of violinists hairing their own
bows, and I have only given the above details to gratify the curiosity of those who like to
know "how it's done."

It is extraordinary the number and variety of rosins in the market; some in most wonderfully
contrived boxes designed to keep the rosin dust from making the fingers sticky, or--more probably--to
sell! Of all the different patents in this way, I find the ordinary book-shape by far the most
satisfactory. The first quality of rosin is prepared by boiling down Venice turpentine. In
a certain authority on violin matters I read that many soloists of celebrity use common kitchen
rosin, but I cannot say I have much faith in the source from whence he can have received such
information. It is advisable never to change the rosin used until the bow is re-haired, as
in each there is some slight difference in composition that may not harmonize with what is
already on the bow.

It is worthy of note, as a testimony to the simplicity and perfection of the bow, that there
have been so few attempts, since Tourte's day, to alter or "improve" it in any particular.
The few experiments that have been made in this direction have in nearly every case proved
failures and have sunk into speedy oblivion.

One of the most remarkable productions in this way was the ponderous monstrosity invented by
one Dr. Nicholson (Fig. 43). This hideous and unwieldy weapon was put forth by its inventor
as the only correct form for a violin bow! It had to be haired with precisely 150 horse hairs
dyed red. The vicar's house stands in a fine lawn commanding a most enchanting view. Next after
the music were four men each bearing a merry garland after flowers,
and of them followed the large violinists and smiling lasses in good
order and arrayed on their holiday kirtles.

 He was struck by the fact that with the ordinary nut advancing
and retreating by the action of the screw it was possible for it to be not always mathematically
in the same place. Also that as the hair gradually stretched by use, the length thereof increased
as the same tension was obtained each time it was screwed up for use. This, of course, made
a minute difference in the balance of the bow. He apparently considered this a serious defect
and set about inventing a nut that should render the balance and the length of the hair immutable.
This was his patent "hausse fixé." As the name implies the nut was a fixture externally but
contained a smaller metal nut that travelled inside it. These nuts were very unsightly as they
were much more bulky than the ordinary nut. It is curious that it never occurred to him that
the movement of the internal nut would similarly affect the balance. A sort of windlass in
the nut would have been more exact, but, as a matter of fact the difference is more theoretical
than practical, and is imperceptible to the player, so the fixed nut, like many other examples
of wasted ingenuity, died a natural death.

Another of Vuillaume's patents was the steel bow. This was often a handsome looking instrument.
Some were "got up" to look like Brazil wood and others were of a bright blue. As this was the
natural colour of the metal it was more commendable but had a very odd appearance. These bows
were not much heavier, if at all, than the average bow as they were hollow throughout. They
were deficient in balance and had one great drawback. Though stronger and tougher in one sense
than the wooden bow they would not stand so much knocking about. A bow, even in the hands of
those accustomed to handling them, is liable to have an occasional fall, and if not broken,
is as good as ever; in fact a bow rarely breaks unless it falls peak downwards. On the other
hand the steel bow would generally "kink" or get dinted and bent if it came in contact with
anything in a fall and would then be entirely useless. A third mistake of Vuillaume's was the
curved ferrule. Thinking it would be advantageous to give the player a good spread of hair
at the heel he made a ferrule that gave the ribbon of hair as it left the nut something the
appearance of the hair in the primitive Egyptian bow illustrated in Fig. 11. This is still
to be met with in some cheap foreign bows. A further notion of his was calculated to be of
great benefit to such players as might find themselves in out-of-the-way places with a bow
in need of new hair and no luthier or bow-repairer within reach. This was the "patent self-hairing
bow." Its principles were sometimes used in conjunction with the "fixed nut" and steel bows.
The hair for this bow was sold ready made into ribbons of the exact length by having a small
brass rod placed transversely at either end; these rods slipped into appropriately shaped notches
in the head and nut and the bow was haired. It does not appear to have been satisfactory and
has gone the way of the other innovations of this and other makers. One other thing in connexion
with Vuillaume's bows I will mention here though it is not in the nature of an "improvement"
properly so-called, albeit I have no doubt Vuillaume thought it a great embellishment. In the
nuts of some of his bows, just where the mother-o'-pearl "eye" is usually placed, he had inserted
a minute and powerful lens with a microscopic transparent portrait of himself that could be
seen therein on holding the nut to the light. It was just like the views one sometimes sees
in penholders brought as presents from popular seaside resorts.

I have recently heard of another variety of self-hairing bow patented in America, but have
not yet seen one. From that country, where, so I have heard, the bows drawn are of quite exceptional
length, emanated a patent bow wherein fine cords are substituted for hair and also a contrivance,
whereby, when the hair becomes smooth and useless on the one side, it can be taken out, turned
round and then enters on a rejuvenated existence the other way about.

To return to Vuillaume's patent bows. All of these, excepting the steel bows, are splendid
sticks, for they were made by Simon, Fonclouse, and other noted workmen. It is therefore a
profitable thing to have them altered into normal bows. This can be done by skilful workmen
so that the bow is as good as any other ordinary bow by the same maker, and is free from the
encumbrance of the patent.

G. Chanot, of Manchester, I am told, has a patent bow that is made to fold in two for convenience
in packing for travelling purposes. The idea is not as original as its inventor may think,
for the Japanese kokiu which is fast becoming obsolete had an extremely long and flexible bow
that was jointed together like a fishing rod.

The "improved bow," patented by Chas. Ketteridge, is distinctly novel and has much to commend
it. The hair in this bow is placed at such an angle that, though the player holds his hand
in the usual position, the full width of the hair lies evenly on the string from end to end.
It has been well spoken of by the press and several noted artists. For chord playing it possesses
distinct advantages, and I should think it would be very useful for certain orchestral players;
it does not, however, seem to have attracted more than passing attention.

Truly the "fiddlestick" is a magic wand in more senses than one. As mentioned above it is significant
that so little has been attempted in the way of alteration or improvement, and it is still
more so that of that little such a small proportion is worthy of a second thought. As Bach
stands in relation to the fugue, as Beethoven to the symphony and Stradivari to the violin,
so is Tourte to the bow. Superior alike to his predecessors and successors, he stands high
poised upon the pedestal of his incomparable genius.

In treating of the somewhat complex and, in many details, highly-disputed subject of the functions
of the bow, I shall prefer to handle the question in the abstract rather than to launch myself
on the choppy sea of "technique"; a sea abounding in shoals, reefs, undercurrents and whirlpools;
extremely difficult to navigate inasmuch as that no two charts agree. Consequently when the
mariner launches his boat the danger to himself and his passengers is considerable. In plain
English the difficulty of explaining all the well-nigh imperceptible differences of movement
in bone and muscle required for the various styles of bowing is so enormous that he who attempts
to do so on paper lies under the grave danger of being misunderstood, and the student under
the scarcely less grave one of misunderstanding. The danger is reciprocative, just as, to return
to my nautical simile, the peril of the helmsman is shared by each passenger if he by mischance
steers upon a submerged rock.

Therefore, dear reader, I will survey the whole prospect from a secure coign of vantage upon
the mainland, and trust my impressions thereof may prove of some slight service to you. As
I have disclaimed all intention of making this portion of my work a handbook of bowing technique
it seems superfluous to add that my observations are addressed more to the teacher than the
student. I use these words in their accepted and arbitrary meanings for the sake of distinguishing
between two separate classes. Of course, from the higher standpoint, a good teacher is always
a student. If it were not so the following pages would be written to no purpose.

Some years ago a certain eminent M.D. collaborated with a more or less well known singing master
in a work on the Larynx. The musical world talked of little else but vocal chords and soft
palates for many months, and the musical press was teeming with correspondence in which the
pros and cons of such studies were hotly discussed, many of the antagonistic writers opining
that the knowledge of the anatomy of the throat would be of as much service to a vocalist as
that of the hand to a violinist. Which reasoning sounds at first glance quite complete, yet,
on examination, it will be observed that there is no such close analogy as these writers appeared
to think. To begin with, in singing the mind only occupies itself with the sound produced.
To learn singing is to practise mimicry. We cannot determine the position of the vocal chords
before producing the note. North (aside.)-- Zounds! (on edrehi) i never chanced to legislate
that way-- the emperor and I were not to good
terms. Moses Edrehi.-- disagreeáble, sare, you was then condition
to no pass, ver the emperor was a man for good ven a gut humours.
Gott ush! The hand
is trained; we say set the fingers so, and the thumb so. Now practice; when the action is perfect
the tone will be right. Briefly in singing we strive for the tone and the action follows, in
the violin we strive for the action and the tone follows. Thus it is clear that a knowledge
of the structure of the hand is of distinct value to a violinist--in particular, a teacher--while,
on the other hand, the knowledge of the anatomy of the throat can be little more than interesting
to the vocalist.

A knowledge of the structure and functions of the various parts of the hand on the part of
a teacher would smooth over many disheartening experiences of his pupils. Just as it is of
value to study the mental characteristics of a pupil so, also, is it of value to thoroughly
examine his physical peculiarities. I wonder how many violin teachers have noticed, or have
profited by so noticing, that no two hands are alike, or that thumbs are of different lengths
and set on in various degrees of opposition to the fingers. It is seldom that such apparently
unimportant details are observed by teachers, the majority of whom make all their pupils hold
the bow alike, long thumbs or short thumbs it makes no difference. I remember having for a
pupil a young lady who had been taught to hold her bow at the extreme tips of her fingers.
Naturally she gained no facility and every attempt at semiquavers sent the bow flying across
the room to the imminent danger of the teacher's optics. I surmised the cause of this eccentricity
and was ultimately able to verify my conjectures. The master who had been so conscientious
in making her hold the bow in this strained and ungainly position was blessed with an abnormally
long thumb; the pupil's thumb was short. What came natural to the one was a strain on the other.

The function of the thumb is that of a pivot; a fulcrum. The bow is a lever resting thereon,
and its pressure on the string is regulated by the first and second fingers on the one side
and by the third and fourth on the other. It would thus appear that the best place for the
thumb would be exactly between the second and third fingers. But it is not given to every thumb
to drop naturally into this position. And here is to be noted the germ of facility in bowing.
Every thumb closes naturally on a certain spot; it may be on the second finger, or on the third.
If the former it can be made to rest on the third or even the fourth without apparent effort,
but minute observation will detect an infinitesimal strain when the thumb is taken beyond its
natural resting place. Therefore I maintain that the best position for the thumb is to be determined
by examination of the hand and thumb, and will differ slightly in each individual player. It
is curious to note how many teachers, some of extreme eminence, take such pains to perpetuate
their own bad habits in their pupils under the impression that they are teaching a perfect
and superior technique. I am afraid that it sounds somewhat of a heresy to speak of great players
and teachers having "bad habits"; the expression is, perhaps, rather strong, but what I refer
to is the "personal equation." Such a player has a tendency to part his fingers, another elevates
the fourth finger in certain passages, this one has a peculiar movement of the elbow, etc.,
etc. All these divergencies from rigid and pedantic technique being the result of their several
physical differences. When these men prove themselves great artists and attain high positions
as teachers their advice is sought on matters of technique. Finding themselves oracles they
first consult the oracle by aid of looking glasses, analyse in this way their own actions,
and then the one who parts his fingers lays it down as a law that the fingers should be parted,
and the one with the peculiar movement of the elbow will not rest until all his pupils have
acquired the same eccentricity. I will quote another example of this sort of thing that came
under my own observation some years ago. It deals with the left hand, but displays the spirit
so well that I feel it is not out of place in this connexion. A thin, delicate lad, with fingers
"like needles"--as a brother violinist described them to me--was sent to a German professor
whose digits resembled nothing so much as the handles of table knives. This was an excellent
violinist, or rather "geiger," for the Germans make this distinction, but owing to the size
of his fingertips he could only play semitones in the third position by removing the finger
stopping the lower note while putting down the higher one. If he retained the second finger
on E on the A string, third position, the third finger would fall too sharp for F natural.
This seemed to him such an unalterable law of nature that he made the lad do the same, notwithstanding
that the boy could have stopped quarter tones with ease had they been wanted!

Had this man made even a superficial study of the hand he would have been spared much profanity
and the pupil much heartache and disappointment. Tuition is twofold. There is direct teaching
and there is development. The seed is sown and then the soil is watered and tended in the manner
calculated to nourish and develop the particular plant to the best advantage. Again, the gardener
does not plant his roses in damp shady corners or his ferns in sand.

Teachers require to use more of the gardener's judgment. They must cease to look upon their
pupils as defective copies of themselves and must not fit them out with technique as soldiers
are with clothing. The technique should be made for the particular player. A violinist with
an ill-fitting technique is about as elegant as a short man in clothes intended for a tall
one, or vice versa. Many cases of bad or defective technique are directly attributable to the
teacher's want of perception of "fit."

Thus we see players whose natural movements are bold and free trussed up in a small and finicking
technique, and others whose bent is towards neatness, struggling manfully with a cumbersome
"large style." I have heard a "gentleman" defined as "a man who wears clothes that belong to
him." Similarly we may say that a good violinist is one whose technique belongs to him. Every
movement should come naturally, it should be as much a part of his personality as his tone
of voice or the glance of his eye, and it should be the teacher's aim to develop this personality
and not to stifle it as is too often the case. Of course great judgment is required in this
development, or the personality will become marked mannerism, than which nothing could be worse.
True art always displays a certain reticence; excess at either end of the gamut of emotion
is avoided. Calmness is not coldness, and passion carried too far becomes caricature. Tone
must be developed also, but it should always be borne in mind that exertion is not power; a
mistake too frequently made. How often do we see a well meaning but physically weak player
trying to tear the tone out of a violin by "main strength." Such efforts are useless, particularly
when practised on a fine violin. A really good instrument is of too sensitive an organisation
to respond to bullying. Teachers cry out to their pupils sometimes "lay it on!" "pull it out!"
and other contradictory sounding phrases with the same meaning, and occasionally such admonitions
and encouragements bear good fruit, but there is always the danger of "effort" being engendered
thereby. There should be no effort in art. Effort, too, defeats its own ends. It weakens; exercise
strengthens. Therefore let the strength with which to "lay it on" or "pull it out" be gradually
and naturally developed by constant and gentle practice. The muscles will gain strength thus,
and the result will be a full round tone, capable of every inflection and free from everything
like harshness.

Power should be implied rather than displayed. The instrument will then respond freely and
fully as a woman to the caress of a strong manly arm.

If the history of the bow's development per se presented a misty aspect we must not be surprised
to find that of bowing similarly obscure.

Just as the violin arrived at its state of greatest perfection long before the bow developed
into a fitting companion. 

This heiress to a exalted land was slip about out by her cradle, and abandon of the robbers on the litoral
of France. She was show to the princesses of the old assembly, and gestate a particular attachment
for the Princess de Lamballe; but when, at the age of only nine or ten years, her appearance had attracted
too much notice, and nothing but a lettre de cachet could secure
her from the persecutions of an great celebrity, she exchanged a abbey
for a prison. The revolution set Aline at liberty.



The evidence of drawings, sculptures, etc., in the earliest days of rebecs and viols, if not
reliable in the representation of the bow itself, are still less so when it comes to the question
of handling the same. With the smaller viols, the thumb (such an important member) is naturally
invisible, and the effect is usually that of a clenched fist. It seems to have been the general
rule with all the viols of lower pitch that were held perpendicularly, to hold the bow underhand
as described by Sympson in 1759 (Fig. 45). But the third drawing in Fig. 18 is remarkable alike
for the modernness both of the bow and the posture of the hand holding it. This is on a par
with the early bows with screw-nut and cambre described in the first section of this work.
I cannot think it likely that the sculptor saw anyone playing a bass viol in this manner. Whether
this representation was the result of gross ignorance or prophetic inspiration I leave to the
reader to decide.

Of course the manner of holding the bow for the smaller viols would have approximated more
nearly to that which obtains on the violin at the present day, as the underhand position would
have been extremely inconvenient, and even impossible.

The earliest English method for the violin known is that contained in the second book of "An
Introduction to the Skill of Musick, in Three Books," published in 1654 by John Playford.

Here the violin is just tolerated in a sort of appendix to the more important subject of the
"Treble, Tenor, and Bass Viols." It consists chiefly of various methods of ensuring accuracy
in tuning the fifths, and the question of bowing is summarily treated as follows:--

"The Bow is held in the right Hand, between the ends of the Thumb and the 3 Fingers, the Thumb
being stay'd upon the Hair at the Nut, and the 3 Fingers resting upon the Wood. Your Bow being
thus fix'd, you are first to draw an even Stroak over each String severally, making each String
yield a clear and distinct sound."

