The blessing of the SPIRIT is essential to the completeness of the benediction. We are struck,
however, with the similarity of this blessing to that which precedes it; nor is the similarity
surprising. For, as the SON came to reveal the FATHER, so the SPIRIT has come to reveal the
SON. CHRIST was a true COMFORTER; but His personal work on earth being finished, He ascended
on high to minister for His people as their HIGH PRIEST in the presence of GOD. The HOLY SPIRIT
is the other COMFORTER, sent by the FATHER in CHRIST'S name, that He might abide with the Church
for ever. CHRIST is the indwelling SAVIOUR: the HOLY SPIRIT the indwelling COMFORTER. On whomsoever
CHRIST makes His face to shine, the HOLY SPIRIT will surely lift up

HIS COUNTENANCE.

"Lift up His countenance upon thee." We have already dwelt on the significance of the face
or countenance (the same original word) as revealing the emotions of the heart. We see from
these words that it is the purpose of GOD that the presence and the love of the SPIRIT should
be made known to those in whom He dwells. When He lifts up His countenance upon us, we walk
in conscious security and freedom; but if the SPIRIT be grieved, the light of His countenance
is hidden from us, and we walk in darkness. And, oh, how dangerous is this walking in darkness,
how surely we shall wander from the way, and fall into some of the snares of the devil! There
is only one safe course, to confess the sin that has grieved Him, and take no rest till communion
is restored: this may always be done most easily by immediate confession and turning to Him,
who is our Advocate with the FATHER, and whose shed blood cleanses from all sin. When sin is
put away the SPIRIT again lifts up His countenance upon us, and peace fills the heart.

THE PEACE OF THE SPIRIT. But here it is the SPIRIT who is spoken of as bestowing peace: why
is this? Because the SPIRIT of GOD makes real things real to us, and enables us practically
to enjoy the blessings procured for us by the death and resurrection and priestly ministry
of the LORD JESUS. Many a believer to whom CHRIST has left peace, knows little of it; but those
who are filled with the SPIRIT are filled with peace. They have peace with GOD; they have also
heart-peace in the midst of conflict and turmoil; and the peace of GOD, which passeth all understanding,
guards their hearts and thoughts. The fruit of the SPIRIT is love, joy, peace.

Are we practically enjoying this blessing, and experiencing this peace which passes all understanding?
Are we finding that when He makes quietness, none can make trouble? And if not, what is the
hindrance? Is there any known sin unconfessed, or not put away? Has wrong been done, and restitution
to the extent of our ability not been made? Is there any matter in which GOD has a controversy
with us? Or are we indulging ourselves in anything about which we have doubt? Are we withholding
anything from GOD which is His due--ourselves, our property, our children; or, it may be, our
testimony? Or, if none of these things are hindering us, are we failing to accept, by faith,
the filling of the SPIRIT; perhaps only asking, but not receiving also? No owner had wrong thought of asking
it, and had they asked they would not have believed that these horse whom could be called great.
I didn't meet him at general range until later. When i was issued with him i didn't even know
his name. On frank principles it seems ever, but on nearer acquaintance to I found that Frank
was exactly the name for him. The formal thing about him was that if he thought a thing we said
it. This was the close introduction.

As the SPIRIT reveals CHRIST, so does CHRIST bestow the SPIRIT; and by faith in CHRIST and
in His Word we appropriate the gift. We shall never forget the blessing we received through
the words, in John iv. 14, "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him

  SHALL NEVER THIRST,"

nearly thirty years ago. As we realized that CHRIST literally meant what He said--that "shall"
meant shall, and "never" meant never, and "thirst" meant thirst--our heart overflowed with
joy as we accepted the gift. Oh, the thirst with which we had sat down, but oh, the joy with
which we sprang from our seat, praising the LORD that the thirsting days were all past, and
past for ever! For, as our LORD continues, "the water that I shall give him shall be in him
a well of water, springing up--overflowing--unto everlasting life." Perhaps, however, we should
draw attention to the words of CHRIST, "whosoever drinketh"; not drank--once for all--but "drinketh,"
that is habitually: as in chap. vii. 38, 39, where, after promising that out of him "shall
flow rivers of living water," it is significally added, "this spake He of the SPIRIT, which
they that believe"--i.e., keep believing--should receive.

Is it not sad that so free a gift should be so little esteemed, so often neither enjoyed nor
sought after? It is intended for each one of us--"lift up His countenance upon thee, and give
thee peace." Would that each reader would accept the gift now, and evermore enjoy it, to the
glory of GOD.

SEALING WITH THE NAME OF GOD: verse 27.

    "And they shall put My Name upon the children of Israel; and I will
    bless them."

With these words this wonderful chapter closes, and the great object of GOD in bestowing His
blessing upon His people is revealed: "They shall put My Name upon the children of Israel,"
or, in other words, shall cause them not only to become the people of GOD, but also to become
manifestly such.

In olden time names were not meaningless, but were descriptive of character or relationship.
The various names of GOD are all full of significance, and each is always used designedly in
the Bible: failing to recognize this, learned, but spiritually-ignorant men have imagined the
Old Testament writings to have been mere compilations from the works of different authors,
and have failed to see the beautiful appropriateness of the various names of GOD as they are
used in different connections. 

"it'element wonderful," he state, "how does the country reveals its spirit. Five 1000000 are a
greatness, that you does know. It's an sum, and we might yet nobody look to feel. Thus we are, for
instance, and i, travelling first-class."

"my spirit-ticket is going to be third-class," i said. "all enterprise has been miss very, and we've
formerly got to bestow."

"i daresay, and i daresay," he said. "it may be well with businesses. All i know is my business
hasn't is gone off Paul."

"Form?" I said.

He gasped and them shook his head. "oh dear, the," he state. "nothing of revelation of-- wish
i was.

But whom you won't might guess what are i do, not if i were to let you have a root." His humbleness
had vanished and he looked about triumphant unbelief.

"i does take it down at so," i state. "what are you?"

"i," he state, "am give the thus the SPIRIT-Goat."

"the what?" I said.

He repeated his lyric. "we see you wear't understand," he went on
we, "thus possibly that i'd bettor."

"yes,"
i said, "the better."

"so, that it's in property," he said. "have you thus written at book or been the House Tract?"
I said i hadn't. "it doesn'we number," he said.

"you'll understand what do i mean it.

Take of politician.
That we content by Code and reveals speeches; in data, does things
which do him is known to know millenary of people whom he doesn't do
know we. Do you might follow me?" We said i did. "ill, so, somebody
posts with'this pitiful balderdash and bestow the ill-formed'written
at study of it.

What would be your feelings if you got a note like that?"

"i shouldn't might well wish it," i said. "of
elective as you wouldn't asked. you'letter desire to recoil the greatness,
or for the ephesian least you'd want to write back to whom him and
tell him what you thought of him asked.

But you can'faith do it, because of the course he hasn'we subscribe
his knowledge or given in spirit.

It's'the way lies
with anon. encyclical whom believe of study. You can't. So you're done.
You feel as if you'calciferol seek to walk up step as there wasn't
asked of step, and your temper. That's where the Association. All you'knowledge
was got to do is to write to us, enclosing fee. For half-a-guinea
to we do send up to address in England one of our self from Storm-and-Battery,
and you're ennoble to kick of him once-- we might vouch him word-proof,
so we can kick as hard as you like. Or, if you prefer writing to
recoil, you can write they to me as if hope was written of article
or whatever do it may be, and you might abuse me asked to heart for half-a-crown.
 So the twelve thousand of the tribe
of Judah refers to the praising ones of CHRIST'S fold; the sealed of Asher to the happy ones,
who bless the LORD at all times; those of Naphtali, to those satisfied with favour, full with
the blessing of the LORD; those of Reuben, to the once unstable as water, but now fully saved
ones; &c., &c.

In Rev. xiii we find the great tribulation in progress, and those still left on the earth persecuted
sorely, many of them to the death, by the beast. But the hundred forty and four thousand of
Rev. xiv are not among them; they were caught up before the tribulation commenced, having been
accounted worthy (Luke xxi. 34-36), to escape the things coming on the earth, and to stand
before the SON of MAN. Such are not only virgins, undefiled by spiritual adultery with the
world, but also wise ones, filled with the SPIRIT: they are not only waiting for the coming
of the Bridegroom, but ready for that coming; whereas the unwise have to go and buy oil, and
so miss their opportunity. In Rev. xiv we see that GOD'S Name is written on the foreheads of
these wise virgins, and that in their mouths is a song which no one else can sing. They are
a first-fruits Bride united to the first-fruit's Bridegroom, and were redeemed (not from among
the Jews only, but from among men), unto GOD and the LAMB. Other believers, then in the tribulation,
shall join them later and form the harvest unto GOD (Rev. vii. 14-17), and will come with the
Bridegroom and Bride when our LORD is revealed from heaven in flaming fire to take vengeance
on the ungodly (2 Thess. i, 6-10). The harvest is not only separated from the first-fruits
in Rev. vii and xiv, but also in Rev. xx. We may read verses 4-6 more clearly if we render
the second clause of verse 4, "I saw also the souls of them, &c.," instead of "and I saw, &c."
and the last clause, "They also lived and reigned with CHRIST a thousand years." We thus see
the enthroned Bridegroom and Bride and the harvest, the Body of CHRIST, forming the first resurrection,
and together reigning in glory.

"And I will bless them." A word of encouragement to Aaron and his sons in pronouncing the blessing,
as well as to the people who received it. The blessing was preceded by GOD'S command ("Speak
unto Aaron ... On this wise ye shall bless"), and followed by the promise quoted above; even
as our SAVIOUR in giving His last commission to disciple all nations, preceded it by, "All
power is given unto Me...: Go ye therefore;" and followed it by the assurance and promise,
"Lo, I am with you alway." In the word of a King there is power; and when His servants carry
out His commands, our KING is present to authenticate them, and to ensure the result.

PART III.

Princely Service.

NUMB. VII.

We learned from Numbers vi, GOD'S requirements of those who desire to take the privileged position
of separation to Himself. We found also in the conclusion of the same chapter the overflow
of GOD'S love in the rich and comprehensive blessing which so appropriately follows, and forms
the connecting link between Nazarite separation and the princely service set forth in Chap.
vii,--one of the longest in the Bible, and one full of repetition. We now propose to consider
more fully why this service of giving finds such lengthy record.

SERVICE THE CONSTRAINT OF LOVE.

Is it not that just as separation to GOD issues in blessing, so does blessing from GOD constrain
to service, and especially to the highest form of service, that which is most GOD-like, that
of Giving? GOD so loved the world that He gave; CHRIST so loved the Church that He gave; the
HOLY SPIRIT so loves the Church that He gives; and redeemed ones, created anew in CHRIST JESUS
unto good works, when led by the SPIRIT, first give themselves unto GOD, and then delight in
such other free-will offerings as the LORD may enable them to present. This we believe is the
reason why the chapter is found here, and is the true connection between its subject-matter
and that of the preceding one.

But why is it so long, so repetitious, and so tedious? The Bible is a wonderful book; it not
only gives the history of the past, and guidance for the present, but in prophecy we have the
history of ages yet to come--the course of events until the grand climax when GOD shall be
all in all. Why, in a book so marvellous in its comprehensiveness, is so much space given to
this record?

GOD'S DELIGHT IN LOVE-GIFTS.

Is it not in order to reveal the heart of GOD? to show His delight in the loving offerings
of His servants? The record is not tedious to Him; and it becomes marvellously interesting
to us, when we get the key, and are brought into sympathy with the heart of Him who finds infinite
satisfaction in each gift, of each one of His children, which is the outcome of gratitude and love.

In the days of our LORD'S life on earth, when the shadow of the cross was already upon Him,
one only amongst all His followers--a woman, Mary--had understood and really taken in His repeated
declaration of the sufferings that awaited Him; and when she came to anoint Him beforehand
for the burial, and broke the precious alabaster box she had reserved for this very purpose,
the thief who kept the bag had only angry words of criticism and reproach. How sweet to her
wounded spirit was her MASTER'S commendation, "She hath done what she could!" And He added,
"Wheresoever this Gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath
done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her."

On an earlier occasion, likewise, as He sat over against the treasury, many that were rich
cast in large sums of silver and of gold, but He turned from them and their gifts to draw attention
to a certain poor widow who brought two mites and cast them in. She had gladdened the heart
of Him who was the Creator of all wealth, and the real Owner of it all. She, said He, had given
more than they all: for she of her want had given all that she had! And of her, as of Mary,
it is true that in whatsoever language the Word of GOD is translated, in whatsoever clime it
is read, the MASTER'S commendation is made known.

There is a day coming, in which before assembled worlds He will make manifest the loving gifts
and the secret service of His redeemed ones. Then we shall not weary as they are recounted
and rewarded; and as we see His joy in them all, we shall better understand the length of Numbers
vii.

FREE-WILL OFFERINGS: verses 1, 2.

    "And it came to pass on the day that Moses had fully set up the
    tabernacle, and had anointed it, and sanctified it ... and all the
    vessels thereof, ... that the princes of Israel, heads of the house
    of their fathers, ... offered."

When the LORD gave the plan of the tabernacle and of the vessels, He likewise gave to the people
willing hearts to offer, and skill to execute. There was no need to press them; the workers
and contributors were those whose heart stirred them up, and whose spirit was made willing.
The people brought more than enough for the service of the work, and Moses had to make proclamation
throughout the camp to restrain them from bringing more.

Is there not a lesson to be learnt here? Let the work only be one of GOD'S planning, and executed
according to His mind, and the hearts that are in sympathy with Him will gladly respond with
suitable and abundant offerings. For is not the willingness to give as much a part of His working
as the skill to use that which is given? Then, in the givers and in their gifts, in the workers
and in their work, the Divine heart finds infinite complacency. "For of Him," as the great
Designer, "and through Him," as the effectual Power for the carrying out of His purposes, "and
to Him," as the real Object of all service, "are all things: to whom be the glory for ever. Amen."

But divine service requires not only initiating, but also maintaining worthily of GOD. It was
not sufficient that the tabernacle and the vessels of ministry were according to the divine
pattern, both as to material and workmanship, and that they were made by divinely qualified
workmen; but when all was completed and fully set up, both the tabernacle and the vessels needed
anointing and sanctifying; and when that was done the offerings needed to carry on the service
could not but be freely poured in. In like manner in all life and work, individual or organised,
only let GOD have His right place, and let there be the anointing of the HOLY GHOST, received
by faith, as well as consecration to Him, and everything will follow, as needful, for the carrying
out of GOD'S plan in the life or work.

GLADSOME ACCEPTANCE: verses 3-5.

    "And they brought their offering before the LORD, six covered
    wagons, and twelve oxen; ... and the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
    Take it of them, that they may be to do the service of the
    tabernacle of the congregation; and thou shall give them unto the
    Levites, to every man according to his service."

It is interesting to note that the first offerings recorded were for the purpose of assisting
in the moving of the tabernacle; it was not GOD'S purpose that it should be stationary. Nor
is GOD'S work ever intended to be stationary, but always advancing.

The offerings themselves were remarkable: rude bullock-wagons, probably rough both in material
and workmanship, much like those we now are familiar with in the unchanging East; they must
have presented a striking contrast to the beauty of the skilfully prepared vessels of ministry.
We may well imagine the thought to have passed through the mind of Moses, Can such rude offerings
be acceptable to the glorious GOD? But GOD Himself dispels all doubt, by saying, "Take it of them."

GOD is not hard to please, nor is true human love, for it is a dim reflection of His own. We
do not estimate our love-gifts by their intrinsic value, but rather by the love they express.
Well do we remember a little incident which occurred some twenty-four years ago, and which
illustrates this truth.

My little daughter, then about five years old, came to me on the morning of my birthday with
a curious little birthday gift in her hand,--"Papa, I haven't bought you a birthday present,"
said she; "I thought you would rather have something I made myself." How my heart went out
to the little darling, and how glad I was that she should think that something she could make
would be more precious to me than any purchased gift! But what the curious little gift could
be intended for I was quite at a loss to divine, and I engaged her in conversation, hoping
she might let some clue slip that would help me to find out for what she meant it, for I feared
she would be disappointed if I did not recognize it. The little pet had found a small piece
of wood, and had bored a hole in it with her scissors, in which she had inserted a peg, and
on the top had hung half a cockle-shell--certainly an uncommon birthday present!

At last, unable to guess what it was supposed to be, I took my dear child on my knee, and,
kissing her, said, "Papa is so pleased to have a birthday present of your own making; what
is it my darling has made for me?" "Why, don't you know, papa? I thought you would like best
a ship to take you to China!"

The dear child was right; probably no gift I ever received gave more pleasure, or was as carefully
treasured, and as often thought of. When that dear child had become old enough to engage in
missionary work in China herself, and was able to introduce me to the first two Chinese women
whom she had brought to CHRIST, I remembered the little ship; and when the women were gone
reminded her about it, and told her that the joy of finding her now used of GOD in the blessed
work itself was a greater joy than her gift had been. She was surprised that I should remember
it; but it had never passed from my memory, and the recollection of it is a pleasure still.
It is not hard to please those who love us.[D]

GOD wants our love; "My son, give Me thine heart." He wants our sympathy; He wants the gifts
and offerings that are prompted by love. Shall He look to us in vain? Our David still thirsts,
not for the waters of the well of Bethlehem, but for the souls for which He died. Shall He
not have them? He specially needs willing, skilful young men, ready to break through the enemy's
camp to deliver the captives of the mighty one. Who that can will go? Who that cannot go at
present will help others to go?

[D: While preparing these sheets for the press we learn from a telegram that He whom my dear
daughter had served in China since 1885, has called her (and her baby of sixteen months) from
her husband, the Rev. J. J. Coulthard, and three surviving children, to the eternal home above.]

ACCORDING TO HIS SERVICE: verses 5-9.

The princes brought their offering to the LORD, and the LORD accepted it. Having accepted it
Himself it was His to give to whom He would; and He chose to give it to the Levites, for they
in a special manner were His, and devoted to His service.

The tribe of Levi was in one sense the poorest in Israel. In dividing the land among the tribes,
no territory was allotted to them. They will have territory by-and-by, when the LORD comes
(see Ezek. xlviii. 12-14), but never have they had any yet. Cities to dwell in, and suburbs,
were given them here and there, in all the tribes of Israel, but of earthly portion that was all.

And yet they were the richest tribe in Israel, for the LORD Himself was their inheritance.
When one of the other tribes was taken into captivity, he had to leave his inheritance behind;
but the godly Levite was as rich in Babylon as in Palestine: death itself could not rob him
of his portion. Happy indeed are they who share the Levite's lot! When the LORD JESUS comes
again, those, surely, who have stored most in heaven, and have least to leave behind on earth,
will render their account with the greatest joy.

"To every man according to his service." The LORD did not say, divide it equally among the
families of Levi. There were six wagons, and three families of Levites; but four wagons were
given to Merari, two to Gershon, "but unto the sons of Kohath he gave none." At first sight
this division appears unfair; but it was and still is the LORD'S plan to give "to every man
according to his service." It fell to the lot of Merari to carry the heaviest materials of
the tabernacle; the boards, the bars, and the pillars with their heavy sockets of solid silver,[E]
and all the instruments; the pillars of the court, likewise, with their brazen sockets and
pins, and their cords,--these formed Merari's weighty burden.

[E: Weighing more than one cwt. each: the hundred sockets therefore alone weighing over five
tons of pure silver.]

The duty of Gershon was to convey the curtains, hangings, coverings and cords of the tabernacle,
and the hangings of the court; for this service, two wagons were as sufficient help as the
four were for Merari.

But what of Kohath? His burdens were not light: the ark, with its covering the mercy-seat,
and the cherubim of gold overshadowing it, the table and the candlestick, the altars and the
vessels of the sanctuary, and all their coverings, these were entrusted to his sons. Heavy
they were indeed, but no help had they, "because the service of the sanctuary belonging unto
them was that they should bear upon their shoulders."

Sometimes the children of GOD are tempted to murmur when their service seems heavy and but
little help is forthcoming: they may perhaps compare their lot with that of others for whom
larger provision has been made. But GOD makes no mistakes; according to their service He divides
the help, and those who are called to the holiest service are those who can have least assistance.
Such are privileged to carry upon their own shoulders sacred burdens that may not be shared
with less privileged ones. Those who would be near the MASTER in the glory must here drink
the cup of sorrow with Him and be baptized with His baptism.

The burden-bearing of the Levites was not to last for ever: once in the Promised Land that
service ceased. Nor will our opportunity of burden-bearing be for long; the glorious appearing
of our great GOD and SAVIOUR will soon summons the watchful and waiting ones to meet Him in
the air. A million a month in China are dying without GOD; now we may seek to win them; now
we may suffer to win them. May none of us lose the opportunity of self-denial and service while
it lasts!

  "'A little while'--He'll come again!
    Let us the precious hours redeem;
  Our greatest grief to give Him pain,
    Our joy to serve and follow Him.
  Watching and ready may we be,
  As those who long their LORD to see.

  'A little while'--'twill soon be past!
    Why should we shun the shame and cross?
  Oh! let us in His footsteps haste,
    Counting for Him all else but loss.
  Oh! how will recompense His smile
  The sufferings of this 'little while.'"

THE DEDICATORY OFFERINGS: verses 10, 11.

    "And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the day
    that it was anointed.... And the LORD said unto Moses, They shall
    offer their offering, each prince on his day, for the dedicating of
    the altar."

The offerings recorded in the early verses of this chapter were given in connection with the
setting up of the Tabernacle, and had reference to its transportation. But the offerings now
to be considered had reference to the altar, and the sacrifices to be offered thereon. Their
number, their character, and their value are full of significance; and the space accorded to
their record by GOD shows the Divine estimation of the altar, and of those gifts which pertain
to sacrifice to Him.

The altar points us to our incarnate SAVIOUR, the CHRIST of GOD, and reminds us that without
shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. The altar sanctified the gift; the fire on
the altar first came down from heaven; all fire that did not come from the altar was strange
fire, and could only bring death to the offerer when used in worship, as in the case of Nadab
and Abihu.

Do we not need to remember this in the present day, when false teachers deny the atoning character
of the death of CHRIST, and vainly imagine that GOD can be served with the unhallowed fires
of fleshly activity?

THE DISPLAY OF THE GIFTS.

The twelve princes, the representatives of the Israel of GOD, brought their offerings before
the altar, and would have left them there: they were all exactly alike, and the gifts might
have been speedily accepted, and briefly recorded, if recorded at all. But the LORD said unto
Moses, They shall offer their offering, each prince on his day,--or, literally, one prince
a day, a sentence which is expressed twice in the Original, showing GOD'S regard for order
and method in all things which concern His service, and that He graciously receives and remembers
the offerings of each of His faithful. Accordingly all the offerings of each of the princes
are here registered by the HOLY SPIRIT in GOD'S Book, as an encouragement to Christian liberality
in all ages" (Wordsworth).

Does it not seem as though the Divine delight in the offering of His servants was so great
that He would have His people also to dwell upon them for twelve consecutive days? And not
only does He spread them over twelve days, but He spreads them over seventy-seven long verses
in this long chapter; first in minute detail, according as much space to the gifts of the last
offerer as to those of the first, and then totalling up the aggregate amount, as though He
would say, "Behold the love-gifts of my people! How many and how precious the offerings of
each, and how great the value of the whole! Note, too, the persons of the offerers, and that
all their gifts were for the dedication of the altar, and show their appreciation of the need
for, and the blessed privilege of sacrifice!"

As we mentioned in our introductory chapter, it was through this account, read in a time of
great spiritual need, that our mind was opened as never before to see GOD'S great heart of
love. We seemed to be reminded of the delight often taken by bride and bridegroom in spreading
out for inspection the love-gifts of their friends, that as many as possible may share their
gratification in them. Several may have sent similar gifts; but each is set out to the best
possible advantage, with the name of the giver attached. And while the intrinsic value of each
is not lost sight of, it is the loving thought of which it is the expression that is most prized.

Again, we were reminded of the way in which, in our frequent absence from home and children,
wifely letters have cheered and interested us, depicting with motherly tenderness the gifts
the children had brought her on her birthday, or other occasion, with a fulness of detail that
showed alike the pleasure of the writer and her consciousness of the enjoyment with which the
account would be read. Does not the full detail of this chapter reveal, in like manner, the
love and tenderness of Him whose Book it is, toward each offerer; and bring out what we may
reverently call the mother-side of GOD'S character, Who has condescended to say, "As one whom
his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you"?

THE PERSON OF THE OFFERER. verses 12-17. The person of each offerer is brought before us, both
as an individual, and in his relationship to the tribe of which he is the representative, before
any enumeration is made of his gifts; and when the enumeration has been fully given, we are
again reminded of the offerer himself. Could the Divine love and satisfaction be more expressively
brought out?

With this thought in view, let us read between the lines of the Record:--

And he that offered his offering--for a glad free-will offering it was--on the first day was
Nahshon, Nahshon the son of Amminadab, Nahshon the prince of the tribe of Judah; and his offering
was one charger--a silver charger, and a weighty one; the weight thereof was a hundred and
thirty shekels: one bowl, also of silver, of seventy shekels weight; not the light shekels
of commerce, but the weighty shekels of the Sanctuary. Nor were these vessels empty: both of
them were full--full of flour, fine flour, and mingled with oil, destined for a meat-offering.

