"Well, it was not funny, and there was no sense in those gawks making themselves so facetious
over it.  I tell you I was angry in earnest for awhile.  I should have shot that long gangly
lubber they called Hank, if I could have done it without crippling six or seven other people--but
of course I couldn't, the old 'Allen's' so confounded comprehensive. 

If you incur these principles to our state and population, to observe the progress of these maximum,
we amaze our lazy inaction and neglect our offense, much more remarkable a century to this part,
for failing to cast a glance over the conduct of nations cultured in the same hemisphere. It is true
that in all states and all peoples ages, has been orators against such vices, but is unfortunately
have been less, and the most neglected, and perhaps persecuted, and more if the measures of
a healthy moral and maximum philanthropic, were in inverse ratio to the interests of some, the ambition
of glory in others, and the rude and stupid ignorance, especially those who believe they AD
refused to everything but his biggest hit.

It is equally true that large companies usually have been attacked by ambition of inexperienced,
greedy and envious, destroying them by means specious entrepreneurs, and spreading erroneous opinions,
unsupported to support them. But yet to be abundant these common agents, enervating, cripple
and retard such works, is certainly note, and space for almost a century of disputes, could
not unroll the advancement of our borders, living and tenaciously urged by the Excellent.
Cabildo, chiefs and corporations all of this capital, where none have stopped taking part.

Nothing proves more our dwindling interest in the advancement of the country, all our shortage
shame and ignorance, and nothing in the end our indolence towards our true interest and subsistence,
apathy just referred. Anyone, interested in the general good want to impose the truth with which we
can appropriate degrading those attributes, be convinced to develop the chapter records only, representations,
reports, certificates the Treasury issued frankly, scientific surveys, statements, details, backgrounds
dressings and as deemed necessary, in order to find a wealth of documents, giving first in the
year 1741 of the previous century, continued for 45, 52, 53, 60, 68, 72, 74, 77, 84, 94, 96, 804,
810, and without interruption. Today we are no doubt less proportion than ever for execution,
but apparently in most moods, according to the charitable view of Government. However, until
now our merchants have had the quality of rooted and could not ignore their roots grow both as
progress in the province establishments, and could not look with indifference their existence,
especially since the year 1777, which was extended to this part of American commerce, and cut
the embarrassing ties that had bound shipments to any of the Peninsula, and already deployed
more proportionate to the regeneration of towns, agriculture and industry.

It seems indeed that an evil genius, and destroyer of our common happiness,
always precedes to block the roads so much to pave seeks, in order
not to be precarious the other mainland provinces and kingdoms in
all kinds of strange fruits, and other wealth we have in our soil,
and finally to deprive us of that through people to be made, we are
unique, because nature so ordained, gracing the point our position
with privilege to all other known balloon.

Is the more remarkable apathy on the advancement of frontiers, as they do not deal today more land
than those who possessed it, and concluded with the Indians, and Vera Head D. Juan de Garay with
60 soldiers and 30 families, while the city of Buenos restored Aires in 1580, to wit: 35 miles
NS, partly at least, listed the river Paraná Salado, and EO 120,
to enter the jurisdiction of Córdoba.

In direct ratio to the progression of those people said it's time soon need for new extensions,
but unfortunately have been neglected the cries of farmers and farmers, who narrowed the need,
have been compelled to be established between the same tribes of
Indians, to the southern part of Salt, to live at the mercy of them,
very his risk, and where every moment they are attacked and robbed.

Our livelihoods and meat supply, service of oxen, horses and mules, and finally our crops and
plantations, are branches that are mostly arbitrary pending of those enemies, and our defense
to its devastating and ongoing missions, is so urgent and necessary,
and puts those enemies in a massive respect.

Anyone that service experience, or because watchful eye on the occurrences This ground has seen
or have heard, however superficial, of the pathetic scenes that have
blood stained the campaigns of helpless victims, killed by the ferocity
of this enemy, so in time of peace known as the open war, defy the
indolence that our ancestors have left to run forever without applying
appropriate remedy to so serious evils, simply indicates only where
the bloody raids repeated, but such signs were causing other effects
applied to caustics Sick, removing both the dying any sleepy, finally
killed the evil dies and caustic or by his ineffectiveness.

The Supreme Government would now put an end to these tragedies, not to leave to future generations
a sad memory, as we now do to those who have preceded him. Search careful way they can make effective
as interesting works, encourages to citizens who can provide ideas provided according to their
knowledge, and truth, these, whom the Lord no less than interested in the happiness Governor
of the province can not without injustice refuse to so beneficial cooperation of view. And
for this reason I find myself in the case of my short target knowledge, that a contraction assiduous
this point in more than six years, who by the Lord Governor, has
been minister.

Do not remember the aforementioned scenes, nor cruel times we saw invasions bury the bodies
by hundreds, if not his memory afflict widows and orphans who still mourn their misery by these
unfortunate occurrences, and because I better take a veil over all and convinced them just where
we need to repair which threaten us again, and go to put them respect the Indians friendly,
and so insurance to their animosity, grading operations, according surtieren means that this
taken, in the absence of an imposing force and that could be available
to fix our lines in a way inaccessible to the enemy.

Two extremes (in my opinion irreconcilable), I have seen usually take the achievement of this
company. The first, the awesome force, to destroy and annihilate their extermination to these
Indians, it is not easy in a long time and the second, a mediator of friendship opposition of
minds, for reciprocal treatment that will soften, with the interest of some of our trade items
they crave too.

The first half agree that the lesson, and has for some time, until remake to tackle with more excitement,
stalking the most advantageous times to do so. His fierce and vindictive nature, causes never
forgive the insult, and not to forget, in Occurrence and parliaments all relate those events
with tears and renewed duels, and go to his children and descendants of the more serious charge of
their vengeance, which last both as aggressors aggrieved families.

The second, which is friendship, which enables them to retreat to his awnings steal with impunity,
as they do all they can cover their forces, and noiseless sweep us daily fields, reducing our cattle
and fields of salted peanuts appalling: no that it no longer met at different times of the year
several tribes to make substantial theft, eyeing before rodeos to
be assaulted, partners, or perhaps driven by our gauchos defectors
deserters.

This not only ruined our stay, but with a view to get rid of us all sorts of cattle, without having check
these facts need another observation, that those with collections tithes, either by a five-year
period, or comparing the last year by the former.

It is very painful thing to see many of our farmers disclosed three to four years, expend massive
flows to establish a herd of 10, 15 or 20 thousand head of cattle, and when on the night of
his meditated reward their labors rest, arranging the sale of livestock, woke up without a single
cow, habérsela stolen by Indians. D. Pedro Perez, D. Mariano Veliera, D. Agustin Garcia and others,
with almost all border on the line, can testify the truth of these facts.

Do not be too sure, that which makes it the boundary line exceeding annual thefts than 40,000
cattle, and perhaps equal or greater number of horses, mares and mules, without sufficient to contain
the Government's counterclaims, and its repeated offers good friendship, for being so lengthy fields,
as their populations in small tribes, evade easily by ensuring that those of S are those of
O, and these to those.

And indeed that have a perfect alternative to the robberies, making them an active trade seasonal
selling and interchangeable in their amounts to the Araucanian Indians bordering the Andes, whose
greed overwhelming rush our ruin, if not actively repaired.

Our compatriots who are familiar with them to escape punishment for their crimes sometimes serve
as a guide, and other real drivers, to whom not only protect Indians, but to defend their people by
force, if sometimes persecuted benefiting from their tents, as has been repeatedly and I have
experienced.

Six years of uninterrupted treatment with these infidels, having first gone carefully by their
more inland areas to the center of its greater number of ranch, and even with this reason
able to attract to the party and therefore friendly to the principal
chiefs, I have identified their locations, and less mistake made known
as they are in their false tenders, the cunning double deal with that
present themselves, always assuming representations who have not,
and offers that can never meet or have a view.

It is therefore necessary to bear in mind that every family is a patriarchy, and independent look
of others, and thus to fly home or awnings, their cattle and children are transposed from
one to another point on this continent, or westward of the range, if its excesses fear of being
attacked by us or by their own neighbors.

The chieftainship usually between this kind of Indian blood is not as strongly as Araucanians
observe their ancestors: it is by choice, and only for cases of war and parliaments, and out
of this does not hold any regard or respect for, and their quarrels
out so broken pate the chiefs as the others, if they have no chance
to defend himself with skill, that in such cases and result is when
is credited to be elevated to chiefs.

But they recognize however, with respectful submission to the callers ulmenes, governors or
chiefs, of which class there are only two in the large space of land which is from the west
coast of Black River, eastern slopes of the Cordillera de los Andes, Cordoba and Cuyo borders
until Salado ours. One of these commands in the part of O, boundaries of Cuyo, Cordoba and mountains
their understanding from the mountains to the Black River, and on the shores of the sea to our establishments.
I've tried them both, the first in the center of the land of his government, and the second by
this, and sent emissaries to him to happen to a parliament.

When these ulmenes displayed in large gatherings of Indian chiefs and subordinates preceded by several
Indian musicians who play a very mournful flutes, horns, and arcs of strings wound with others to
fashion using blacks, and his rear have made slaves of all sorts in their wars. All come in proportion
to celebrate his ulmen, and seen off the blankets and jargon, leaving
bare, for gifts to Governor excuse not to receive them: and this,
that is regularly provided with good lungs, makes frequent speeches
are always directed to instill spirit against his enemies, holding
them always less.

Then the chiefs appear subordinate to his presence, give as the last time you have seen and met
happened to their families, recommended revenge their misfortunes, and if the reunion is 30
to 40, who has been greeting word after ulmen of them all, referring to them as well, for so the
same thing is repeated many times how many of the attendees, and the replies, and thus, in the absence
of writing, transmitted to posterity by expression news or misfortune to others, to always live
in the memory of future generations of events, referring to the way the Inca Garcilaso de la
Vega, they did their elders.

Having far less than the Excellent. Governor of the previous occurrences, and convinced invalidity
of subordinate chiefs offerings, while being present at ulmenes their proposals, try to attract
these through emissaries who were sent to him through me, and could only be achieved by the appearance
of that of O, that I had tried in the center of his government, which was filed with other chiefs
his subordinates to the Superior Government who of course at the conference I attended, there was
far from assenting to the request for the establishment of new populations with enough sincerity.
Then addressed the word to the other chiefs, and they responded,
that at presence of the provisions of their leader, nothing remained
but that obey.

But the chief governor added that it considered it appropriate to form a parliament, to arise,
the chief governor of the south, settled in the chapters of peace, friendship and populations
that had been decided, which would go away as mutual distrust. For this I was asked by the Superior
procure the means to make them understand the wishes that encouraged them to engage SE more
intimate friendship with the chief ulmen, and to the mate way lends itself to come and personally
receive the safest evidence her sincerity.

Indeed, immediately tried to make him understand by the chiefs and Quinteleu Quidulef, friends,
and I also had proven to be as mine, and the response of the ulmen, sending his two older brothers,
was, to be provided with equal frankness that the elderly, and blind, was not allowed to mount
his horse, but nevertheless encourage to do so, and the road from me, because he wanted the friendship
of which she provided, making According to him, which until then had considered the complaint
of having been in a very short price.

Superiority, who heard the brothers sent the chief, without losing
sight of these occurrences, I came as soon as possible, seek to remedy
the ills afflicting the campaign seeking a term Shortages reconciled
with the treasury, the necessary assistance to the establishment of
the first points of safety, for which approved the draft I submitted
to the order, on February 15, 1814, which could be ordered to make
progress in April 1815 and ceased to have effect on subsequent occurrences,
which are well known and even harmful the state.

The first step of this exhibition was to be, to form the Indian parliament, as indicated, Chapters
settling mutual friendship and more solemn treatment, putting an end to thefts and devastation,
as often required, and identify specific points of entry and exit to the Indians with their fruits
and spices they wanted to introduce into the capital, escorted. That would make people not only
in points that suit both contracting for which should first be recognized
from the Rio Colorado to our borders, fearing Parages several invasion
coast, which to them was much, or more harmful to us in such circumstances:
on the principles of which the negotiation was fed forward, in confidence
with the chiefs in exchange for their interest.

So, the skill in the relationship and openness in the deal would facilitate the recognition, observing the
way, distances, latitudes and longitudes to that point, and those who were provided to populations,
in order not to adventure, as usually happens, for neatly anticipate no accurate survey or less
apparent qualities, and also because more advanced in our villages south should have one spare,
to cover any significant fields, and certainly ought to establish
a strong and population at the bottom of the first sierra, besides
serving as a first point of support military road, was warehouse the
following provisions for the continuation of this work, and meanwhile
the complement of the four companies that were to be detailed force,
put in appropriate discipline, and provision of horses from their
properties, with everything else relative to impose respect necessary,
and on depressed, if necessary, their animosity to look at the confluence
of the Rio Colorado.

Formed this military and defensive line with four companies to 125 male veterans, strong enough
to bring respect to the enemy, be achieved safely (having surveillance) put as many people
who favor the goodness of their land and export its fruits, which may be at different points,
or subordinate to quickly alternate first order, and special classes for aventajaría to themselves
that they would do progress.

This line on the left side of the box forming irregular land, is looking
W, and is very much at its scope to the Indians of that department,
if they make inroads, to cut off their retreat, and live very careful
if you are exceeded.

Population fixed on the Rio Colorado, nothing is more interesting than the recognition of this
river to its source, and considering whether the large flow of the receiving waters of Rio Diamond
or of Neuquen, as generally assumed, and either one of them or both, is military line that can
be extended to the Fort of San Rafael in Mendoza, where the first; and being the second, but is
in proportion to intern more Penco, since traveler after turning away from calling Moylin 70
leagues southwest of the Laguna de la Sal, make a small trip to Neuquen, that coast to the peaks
of the Cordillera paths comfortable.
  The bullet that made it wounded the driver slightly, but he did not mind it much.
He said the place to keep a man "huffy" was down on the Southern Overland, among the Apaches,
before the company moved the stage line up on the northern route.  He said the Apaches used
to annoy him all the time down there, and that he came as near as anything to starving to death
in the midst of abundance, because they kept him so leaky with bullet holes that he "couldn't
hold his vittles."

This person's statement were not generally believed.

We shut the blinds down very tightly that first night in the hostile Indian country, and lay
on our arms.  We slept on them some, but most of the time we only lay on them.  We did not
talk much, but kept quiet and listened.  It was an inky-black night, and occasionally rainy.
We were among woods and rocks, hills and gorges--so shut in, in fact, that when we peeped through
a chink in a curtain, we could discern nothing.  The driver and conductor on top were still,
too, or only spoke at long intervals, in low tones, as is the way of men in the midst of invisible
dangers.  We listened to rain-drops pattering on the roof; and the grinding of the wheels through
the muddy gravel; and the low wailing of the wind; and all the time we had that absurd sense
upon us, inseparable from travel at night in a close-curtained vehicle, the sense of remaining
perfectly still in one place, notwithstanding the jolting and swaying of the vehicle, the trampling
of the horses, and the grinding of the wheels. We listened a long time, with intent faculties
and bated breath; every time one of us would relax, and draw a long sigh of relief and start
to say something, a comrade would be sure to utter a sudden "Hark!" and instantly the experimenter
was rigid and listening again.  So the tiresome minutes and decades of minutes dragged away,
until at last our tense forms filmed over with a dulled consciousness, and we slept, if one
might call such a condition by so strong a name--for it was a sleep set with a hair-trigger.
It was a sleep seething and teeming with a weird and distressful confusion of shreds and fag-ends
of dreams--a sleep that was a chaos. Wait, wait a bit, and I will humble myself down ...!

And he turned to his daughter with his hand up, this cautious young man had gone wrong not to
put in safe running around the table, Mrs. Martin could not catch
it: at the same time, so that Colonel Ojeda, sought to make peace.

D. Bernardo was so irritated with tosquedades his wife, who could
not say or do nothing, continued to sit staring at the plate while
a swarm of thoughts dark and melancholy associated with their unequal
marriage, he seethed in the head.

Finally, they went slowly calming the spirits who were angry. Doña Martina left to pursue her
daughter and sat at the table, though muttering threats, it also sat looking askance at his mother,
D. Bernardo, making a prodigious effort of diplomacy to overcome its just despondency, fell
into conversation with the colonel. The only broken glass was paid miserly Henry: the authority
of the father and mother, in common agreement, decided to stay without food, for insolence!
But, as long as in Spain punishes a criminal, no lack of commitment to continue to have the
case married, the pleas of Ojeda and Colonel managed to end that sentence was reduced only
deprivation dessert. And the good Henry (who must at least acknowledge that in the midst of raging
anger sacase not the shovel murderer who was in the lining of the jacket) came to sit at the
table with the red cheeks of the cheeks, eyes and noses wet hair fallen over his forehead. I was so
horrible, that his cousin Miguel, pity heartily, he felt a desire heinous laugh which, of course,
tried to contain by whatever means were within reach, biting his lips, looking at another site,
etc., etc. But he wanted her bad luck that Henry came to understand, by the contraction of the
face certainly, the desire that frolicked in the body, and for that purpose began to throw
a glaring, poisoned. Michael then was no longer master of himself, and suddenly, in a moment
of silence, let the cloth of laughter, and with him by the mouth and nose chorretazos the spoonful
of soup she had just swallowed.  All that we could make out
of the odds and ends of the information we gathered in the morning, was that the disturbance
occurred at a station; that we changed drivers there, and that the driver that got off there
had been talking roughly about some of the outlaws that infested the region ("for there wasn't
a man around there but had a price on his head and didn't dare show himself in the settlements,"
the conductor said); he had talked roughly about these characters, and ought to have "drove
up there with his pistol cocked and ready on the seat alongside of him, and begun business
himself, because any softy would know they would be laying for him." But without knowing how, unavoidably, when freer thought, felt, I may say so,
in their flesh the weight of the shackles that bound the mysterious post its original fault.
Much of this had on the witnesses and accomplices in it. Recordábansela and is constantly put in
front of your eyes wherever you turn.

Here's the reader some of the reasons why, following the serious altercation with Dona Rosa Don
Candido was made out to meet Montes de Oca. No spat by indiscretions had with his wife. What
scold! On the contrary, he never pulled over the effusion hand. Is it needed for the settlement
of a project that had been meditating for a short time this part. I wanted as a doctor certifies
that without risk of life was not possible the transfer of the patient in the hospital de Paula,
the new madhouse. This first place. Second, support was also intended to serve as a conduit
through which Josefa sign, or else the granddaughter received a monthly pension of twenty-five
dollars ½ indefinitely.

Stimulated the greed of Montes de Oca with a splendid gift, it was difficult to dispatch certification,
or accept the assignment allowance. This was a way by Don Candido, faithful to the thief,
was that it would be perhaps more risky test the third-party discretion
in that case.

So cut, I thought Gamboa, direct all future relationship with the three accomplices in his
grave guilt, without fail to the commitments they made. But there was the tail to be skinned.
How Cecilia Valdés rid of the bonds that held out his son Leonardo? They loved each other
with delirium, were often not enough to separate her scolding grandmother, or threats to it,
by Dona Rosa, Don Candido. There was therefore forced to the gallant ship and throw the country,
or to kidnap the woman and not to find it anywhere or communicate with him. The first thing
that had not even thinking about it: Dona Rosa is opposed to all his strength. Secondly, it
was highly risky and I was surrounded by difficulties almost insurmountable.

Such were the thoughts that most concerned the spirit of Don Candido and made him suffer the
tortures of hell by the time we historian.

Now: of course desirable to proceed to the kidnapping of the girl?

Convenient, but it was not urgently needed at the time, for two main reasons, namely because
they lived grandmother, but sickly and decadent, and because in two weeks would leave the family
spend Easter at the ingenuity of a barrel, and it was agreed that Leonardo was in the game.

Indeed, a week before the Mariel despatched the schooner Winner: your
employer Francisco Sierra with the victuals, preserves and wines that
were not for love or money those parts, and with the servants of the
particular service of Gamboa's family, including Ted and Dolores.
They should also be joining Miss Ilincheta with his aunt Juana for
which Leonardo and Meneses Diego would escort them from Alquízar. When
he had finished his invective, he left her crying in the corner and went behind Eulalia who
had climbed back to the room to ascertain the number and kind of havoc executed there.

Meanwhile, D. Bernardo, a very bad mood, not so much by his son's mischief improprieties by
his wife, served soup to everyone at the table, filling also it's plate and his daughter away.
Upon arrival at Henry said in a peremptory tone:

- Kid, come sit at the table.

Slade soon gained a name for fearless resolution, and this was sufficient merit to procure
for him the important post of overland division-agent at Julesburg, in place of Mr. Jules,
removed. 

Doña Martina laughed loud, crude, which made the eyebrows arching slightly D. Bernardo.

- Do not be V. ever, if God does not put his hand on it, put it hopefully soon!

- Such happiness, he first has to touch me Don Facundo - whispered a hollow voice.

Hojeda looked up confused.

Few things bother him as much as being mentioned in this women's issue: why the rogue colonel's
always did that was chance.

- I !..... Col. ..... V. beg .... marriage .....

- A good portion
goes V., Bembo friend !..... Ojeda is a egoistazo ..... More than
twenty times he I wanted to marry, and have always been jilted the
bride.

- Allow me, Martinita - was quick to say D. Facundo, - I have
not given anyone pumpkins ..... These are serious matters, Martinita
.....

- Hojeda not home - continued the lady, - not to abandon their
selfish bachelor life.

Who robs him of giving short walk in the morning at the retreat, his little sermon in the afternoon
Calatravas or the Incarnation, his bulls or steers on Sundays, etc.., Etc.?

- Let us know what falls within these etcetera, D. Facundo - said the colonel.

Hojeda glared at him, and said nothing.

- But V. is another thing, Colonel V. is a man of the world, less arregladito that Ojeda, and can
make any girl happy.

- I heard V., D. Facundo - said the colonel
.-- Men can not make happy arregladitos girls.

- No, man, no, I mean
that - Dona Martina said laughing ...

  Slade was plucky, and Jules got several bad pistol wounds in return.

