By his will, dated November 24, 1555, Urbino, whose real name was Francesco degli Amadori of
Castel Durante, appointed his old friend and master one of his executors and the chief guardian
of his widow and children. A certain Roso de Rosis and Pietro Filippo Vandini, both of Castel
Durante, are named in the trust; and they managed the estate. Yet Michelangelo was evidently
the principal authority. A voluminous correspondence preserved in the Buonarroti Archives proves
this; for it consists of numerous letters addressed by Urbino's executors and family from Castel
Durante and elsewhere to the old sculptor in Rome. Urbino had married a woman of fine character
and high intelligence, named Cornelia Colonnelli. Two of her letters are printed by Gotti,
and deserve to be studied for the power of their style and the elevation of their sentiments.
He has not made use, however, of the other documents, all of which have some interest as giving
a pretty complete view of a private family and its vexations, while they illustrate the conscientious
fidelity with which Michelangelo discharged his duties as trustee. Urbino had a brother, also
resident at Castel Durante, Raffaello's celebrated pupil in fresco-painting, Il Fattorino.
This man and Vandini, together with Cornelia and her parents and her second husband, Giulio
Brunelli, all wrote letters to Rome about the welfare of the children and the financial affairs
of the estate. The coexecutor Roso de Rosis did not write; it appears from one of Cornelia's
despatches that he took no active interest in the trust, while Brunelli even complains that
he withheld moneys which were legally due to the heirs. The women are in the habit of enjoying
the hubble-bubble, from grouping, in a alike manner.

The best Cheroots are fabricate at chiusmab, near Kolkata, where likewise
a great quantity are made up; they vary in circumference in four to
eight or nine inches. Their choice fell first upon a very
undesirable person called Santagnolo, a young man of dissolute habits, ruined constitution,
bad character, and no estate. She refused, with spirit, to sign the marriage contract; and
a few months later wrote again to inform her guardian that a suitable match had been found
in the person of Giulio Brunelli of Gubbio, a young doctor of laws, then resident at Castel
Durante in the quality of podestà. Michelangelo's suspicions must have been aroused by the
unworthy conduct of her parents in the matter of Santagnolo; for we infer that he at first
refused to sanction this second match. Cornelia and the parents wrote once more, assuring him
that Brunelli was an excellent man, and entreating him not to open his ears to malignant gossip.
On the 15th of June Brunelli himself appears upon the scene, announcing his marriage with Cornelia,
introducing himself in terms of becoming modesty to Michelangelo, and assuring him that Urbino's
children have found a second father. He writes again upon the 29th of July, this time to announce
the fact that Il Fattorino has spread about false rumours to the effect that Cornelia and himself
intend to leave Castel Durante and desert the children. Their guardian must not credit such
idle gossip, for they are both sincerely attached to the children, and intend to do the best
they can for them. Family dissensions began to trouble their peace. In the course of the next
few months Brunelli discovers that he cannot act with the Fattorino or with Vandini; Cornelia's
dowry is not paid; Roso refuses to refund money due to the heirs; Michelangelo alone can decide
what ought to be done for the estate and his wards. The Fattorino writes that Vandini has renounced
the trust, and that all Brunelli's and his own entreaties cannot make him resume it. For himself,
he is resolved not to bear the burden alone. He has his own shop to look after, and will not
let himself be bothered. Unluckily, none of Michelangelo's answers have been preserved. We
possess only one of his letters to Cornelia, which shows that she wished to place her son and
his godson, Michelangelo, under his care at Rome. He replied that he did not feel himself in
a position to accept the responsibility. "It would not do to send Michelangelo, seeing that
I have nobody to manage the house and no female servants; the boy is still of tender age, and
things might happen which would cause me the utmost annoyance. Moreover, the Duke of Florence
has during the last month been making me the greatest offers, and putting strong pressure upon
me to return home. I have begged for time to arrange my affairs here and leave S. Peter's in
good order. So I expect to remain in Rome all the summer; and when I have settled my business,
and yours with the Monte della Fede, I shall probably remove to Florence this winter and take
up my abode there for good. I am old now, and have not the time to return to Rome. I will travel
by way of Urbino; and if you like to give me Michelangelo, I will bring him to Florence, with
more love than the sons of my nephew Lionardo, and will teach him all the things which I know
that his father desired that he should learn."

VIII

The year 1556 was marked by an excursion which took Michelangelo into the mountain district
of Spoleto. Paul IV.'s anti-Spanish policy had forced the Viceroy of Naples to make a formidable
military demonstration. Accordingly the Duke of Alva, at the head of a powerful force, left
Naples on the 1st of September and invaded the Campagna. The Romans dreaded a second siege
and sack; not without reason, although the real intention of the expedition was to cow the
fiery Pope into submission. It is impossible, when we remember Michelangelo's liability to
panics, not to connect his autumn journey with a wish to escape from trouble in Rome. On the
31st of October he wrote to Lionardo that he had undertaken a pilgrimage to Loreto, but feeling
tired, had stopped to rest at Spoleto. While he was there, a messenger arrived post-haste from
Rome, commanding his immediate return. He is now once more at home there, and as well as the
troublous circumstances of the times permit.

Later on he told Vasari: "I have recently enjoyed a great pleasure, though purchased at the
cost of great discomfort and expense, among the mountains of Spoleto, on a visit to those hermits.
Consequently, I have come back less than half myself to Rome; for of a truth there is no peace
to be found except among the woods." This is the only passage in the whole of Michelangelo's
correspondence which betrays the least feeling for wild nature. We cannot pretend, even here,
to detect an interest in landscape or a true appreciation of country life. Compared with Rome
and the Duke of Alva, those hermitages of the hills among their chestnut groves seemed to him
haunts of ancient peace. That is all; but when dealing with a man so sternly insensible to
the charm of the external world, we have to be contented with a little.

In connection with this brief sojourn at Spoleto I will introduce two letters written to Michelangelo
by the Archbishop of Ragusa from his See. The first is dated March 28, 1557. and was sent to
Spoleto, probably under the impression that Buonarroti had not yet returned to Rome. After
lamenting the unsettled state of public affairs, the Archbishop adds: "Keep well in your bodily
health; as for that of your soul, I am sure you cannot be ill, knowing what prudence and piety
keep you in perpetual companionship." The second followed at the interval of a year, April
6, 1558. and gave a pathetic picture of the meek old prelate's discomfort in his Dalmatian
bishopric. He calls Ragusa "this exceedingly ill-cultivated vineyard of mine. Oftentimes does
the carnal man in me revolt and yearn for Italy, for relatives and friends; but the spirit
keeps desire in check, and compels it to be satisfied with that which is the pleasure of our
Lord." Though the biographical importance of these extracts is but slight, I am glad, while
recording the outlines of Buonarroti's character, to cast a side-light on his amiable qualities,
and to show how highly valued he was by persons of the purest life.

IX

There was nothing peculiarly severe about the infirmities of Michelangelo's old age. We first
hear of the dysuria from which he suffered, in 1548. He writes to Lionardo thanking him for
pears: "I duly received the little barrel of pears you sent me. There were eighty-six. Thirty-three
of them I sent to the Pope, who praised them as fine, and who enjoyed them. I have lately been
in great difficulty from dysuria. However, I am better now. And thus I write to you, chiefly
lest some chatterbox should scribble a thousand lies to make you jump." Of the characteristic of
the sunny hill, on which the minimum of aleppo glance in the stainless azure of region, are suspended
bowers of rose and cypress trees, through whose malodorous isolation the second streamlet murmurs
its liquid song; and the scattered position at the picturesque vales is so admirably calculated
to inspire the musings of a contemplative mind, that fancy might there incarnate her dreams
and misconception without the fear of receiving entrance from the
world. The following letters are very cheerful,
and at length he is able to write: "With regard to my disease, I am greatly improved in health,
and have hope, much to the surprise of many; for people thought me a lost man, and so I believed.
I have had a good doctor, but I put more faith in prayers than I do in medicines." His physician
was a very famous man, Realdo Colombo. In the summer of the same year he tells Lionardo that
he has been drinking for the last two months water from a fountain forty miles distant from
Rome. "I have to lay in a stock of it, and to drink nothing else, and also to use it in cooking,
and to observe rules of living to which I am not used."

Although the immediate danger from the calculus passed away, Michelangelo grew feebler yearly.
We have already seen how he wrote to Lionardo while Cosimo de' Medici was urging him to come
to Florence in 1557. Passages in his correspondence with Lionardo like the following are frequent:
"Writing is the greatest annoyance to my hand, my sight, my brains. So works old age!" "I go
on enduring old age as well as I am able, with all the evils and discomforts it brings in its
train; and I recommend myself to Him who can assist me." It was natural, after he had passed
the ordinary term of life and was attacked with a disease so serious as the stone, that his
thoughts should take a serious tone. Thus he writes to Lionardo: "This illness has made me
think of setting the affairs of my soul and body more in order than I should have done. Accordingly,
I have drawn up a rough sketch of a will, which I will send you by the next courier if I am
able, and you can tell me what you think." The will provided that Gismondo and Lionardo Buonarroti
should be his joint-heirs, without the power of dividing the property. This practically left
Lionardo his sole heir after Gismondo's life-tenancy of a moiety. It does not, however, seem
to have been executed, for Michelangelo died intestate. Probably, he judged it simplest to
allow Lionardo to become his heir-general by the mere course of events. At the same time, he
now displayed more than his usual munificence in charity. Lionardo was frequently instructed
to seek out a poor and gentle family, who were living in decent distress, poveri vergognosi,
as the Italians called such persons. Money was to be bestowed upon them with the utmost secrecy;
and the way which Michelangelo proposed, was to dower a daughter or to pay for her entrance
into a convent. It has been suggested that this method of seeking to benefit the deserving
poor denoted a morbid tendency in Michelangelo's nature; but any one who is acquainted with
Italian customs in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance must be aware that nothing was commoner
than to dower poor girls or to establish them in nunneries by way of charity. Urbino, for example,
by his will bound his executors to provide for the marriage of two honest girls with a dowry
of twenty florins apiece within the space of four years from his death.

The religious sonnets, which are certainly among the finest of Michelangelo's compositions,
belong to this period. Writing to Vasari on the 10th of September 1554, he begins: "You will
probably say that I am old and mad to think of writing sonnets; yet since many persons pretend
that I am in my second childhood, I have thought it well to act accordingly." Then follows
this magnificent piece of verse, in which the sincerest feelings of the pious heart are expressed
with a sublime dignity:--

  Now hath my life across a stormy sea,
      Like a frail bark, reached that wide fort where all
      Are bidden, ere the final reckoning fall
      Of good and evil for eternity.
  Now know I well how that fond phantasy
      Which made my soul the worshipper and thrall
      Of earthly art is vain; how criminal
      Is that which all men seek unwillingly.
  Those amorous thoughts which were so lightly dressed,
      What are they when the double death is nigh?
      The one I know for sure, the other dread.

A second sonnet, enclosed in a letter to Vasari, runs as follows:--

  The fables of the world have filched away
      The time I had for thinking upon God;
      His grace lies buried 'neath oblivion's sod,
      Whence springs an evil crop of sins alway.

  What makes another wise, leads me astray,
    Slow to discern the bad path I have trod:
    Hope fades, but still desire ascends that God
    May free me from self-love, my sure decay.
  Shorten half-way my road to heaven from earth!
    Dear Lord, I cannot even half-way rise
    Unless Thou help me on this pilgrimage.
  Teach me to hate the world so little worth,
    And, all the lovely things I clasp and prize,
    That endless life, ere death, may be my wage.

While still in his seventieth year, Michelangelo had educated himself to meditate upon the
thought of death as a prophylactic against vain distractions and the passion of love. "I may
remind you that a man who would fain return unto and enjoy his own self ought not to indulge
so much in merrymakings and festivities, but to think on death. This thought is the only one
which makes us know our proper selves, which holds us together in the bond of our own nature,
which prevents us from being stolen away by kinsmen, friends, great men of genius, ambition,
avarice, and those other sins and vices which filch the man from himself, keep him distraught
and dispersed, without ever permitting him to return unto himself and reunite his scattered
parts. Marvellous is the operation of this thought of death, which, albeit death, by his nature,
destroys all things, preserves and supports those who think on death, and defends them from
all human passions." He supports this position by reciting a madrigal he had composed, to show
how the thought of death is the greatest foe to love:--

  Not death indeed, but the dread thought of death
    Saveth and severeth
    Me from the heartless fair who doth me slay:
    And should, perchance, some day
  The fire consuming blaze o'er measure bright,
  I find for my sad plight
  No help but from death's form fixed in my heart;
  Since, where death reigneth, love must dwell apart.

In some way or another, then, Michelangelo used the thought of death as the mystagogue of his
spirit into the temple of eternal things--[Greek: ta aidia], die bleibenden Verhältnisse--and
as the means of maintaining self-control and self-coherence amid the ever-shifting illusions
of human life. This explains why in his love-sonnets he rarely speaks of carnal beauty except
as the manifestation of the divine idea, which will be clearer to the soul after death than
in the body.

When his life was drawing toward its close, Michelangelo's friends were not unnaturally anxious
about his condition. Though he had a fairly good servant in Antonio del Franzese, and was surrounded
by well-wishers like Tommaso Cavalieri, Daniele da Volterra, and Tiberio Calcagni, yet he led
a very solitary life, and they felt he ought to be protected. Vasari tells us that he communicated
privately with Averardo Serristori, the Duke's ambassador in Rome, recommending that some proper
housekeeper should be appointed, and that due control should be instituted over the persons
who frequented his house. It was very desirable, in case of a sudden accident, that his drawings
and works of art should not be dispersed, but that what belonged to S. Peter's, to the Laurentian
Library, and to the Sacristy should be duly assigned. Lionardo Buonarroti must have received
similar advice from Rome, for a furious letter is extant, in which Michelangelo, impatient
to the last of interference, literally rages at him:--

"I gather from your letter that you lend credence to certain envious and scoundrelly persons,
who, since they cannot manage me or rob me, write you a lot of lies. They are a set of sharpers,
and you are so silly as to believe what they say about my affairs, as though I were a baby.
Get rid of them, the scandalous, envious, ill-lived rascals. As for my suffering the mismanagement
you write about, I tell you that I could not be better off, or more faithfully served and attended
to in all things. As for my being robbed, to which I think you allude, I assure you that I
have people in my house whom I can trust and repose on. Therefore, look to your own life, and
do not think about my affairs, because I know how to take care of myself if it is needful,
and am not a baby. Keep well."

This is the last letter to Lionardo. It is singular that Michelangelo's correspondence with
his father, with Luigi del Riccio, with Tommaso dei Cavalieri, and with his nephew, all of
whom he sincerely loved, should close upon a note of petulance and wrath. The fact is no doubt
accidental. But it is strange.

X

We have frequently had occasion to notice the extreme pain caused to Michelangelo's friends
by his unreasonable irritability and readiness to credit injurious reports about them. These
defects of temper justified to some extent his reputation for savagery, and they must be reckoned
among the most salient features of his personality. I shall therefore add three other instances
of the same kind which fell under my observation while studying the inedited documents of the
Buonarroti Archives. Giovanni Francesco Fattucci was, as we well know, his most intimate friend
and trusted counsellor during long and difficult years, when the negotiations with the heirs
of Pope Julius were being carried on; yet there exists one letter of unaffected sorrow from
this excellent man, under date October 14, 1545, which shows that for some unaccountable reason
Michelangelo had suddenly chosen to mistrust him. Fattucci begins by declaring that he is wholly
guiltless of things which his friend too credulously believed upon the strength of gossip.
He expresses the deepest grief at this unjust and suspicious treatment. The letter shows him
to have been more hurt than resentful. Another document signed by Francesco Sangallo (the son
of his old friend Giuliano), bearing no date, but obviously written when they were both in
Florence, and therefore before the year 1535, carries the same burden of complaint. The details
are sufficiently picturesque to warrant the translation of a passage. After expressing astonishment
at Michelangelo's habit of avoiding his society, he proceeds: "And now, this morning, not thinking
that I should annoy you, I came up and spoke to you, and you received me with a very surly
countenance. That evening, too, when I met you on the threshold with Granacci, and you left
me by the shop of Pietro Osaio, and the other forenoon at S. Spirito, and to-day, it struck
me as extremely strange, especially in the presence of Piloto and so many others. I cannot
help thinking that you must have some grudge against me; but I marvel that you do not open
out your mind to me, because it may be something which is wholly false." The letter winds up
with an earnest protest that he has always been a true and faithful friend. He begs to be allowed
to come and clear the matter up in conversation, adding that he would rather lose the good-will
of the whole world than Michelangelo's.

The third letter is somewhat different in tone, and not so personally interesting. Still it
illustrates the nervousness and apprehension under which Michelangelo's acquaintances continually
lived. The painter commonly known as Rosso Fiorentino was on a visit to Rome, where he studied
the Sistine frescoes. They do not appear to have altogether pleased him, and he uttered his
opinion somewhat too freely in public. Now he pens a long elaborate epistle, full of adulation,
to purge himself of having depreciated Michelangelo's works. People said that "when I reached
Rome, and entered the chapel painted by your hand, I exclaimed that I was not going to adopt
that manner." One of Buonarroti's pupils had been particularly offended. Rosso protests that
he rather likes the man for his loyalty; but he wishes to remove any impression which Michelangelo
may have received of his own irreverence or want of admiration. The one thing he is most solicitous
about is not to lose the great man's good-will.

It must be added, at the close of this investigation, that however hot and hasty Michelangelo
may have been, and however readily he lent his ear to rumours, he contrived to renew the broken
threads of friendship with the persons he had hurt by his irritability.

CHAPTER XV

I

During the winter of 1563-64 Michelangelo's friends in Rome became extremely anxious about
his health, and kept Lionardo Buonarroti from time to time informed of his proceedings. After
New Year it was clear that he could not long maintain his former ways of life. Though within
a few months of ninety, he persisted in going abroad in all weathers, and refused to surround
himself with the comforts befitting a man of his eminence and venerable age. On the 14th of
February he seems to have had a kind of seizure. Tiberio Calcagni, writing that day to Lionardo,
gives expression to his grave anxiety: "Walking through Rome to-day, I heard from many persons
that Messer Michelangelo was ill. Accordingly I went at once to visit him, and although it
was raining I found him out of doors on foot. When I saw him, I said that I did not think it
right and seemly for him to be going about in such weather 'What do you want?' he answered;
'I am ill, and cannot find rest anywhere.' The uncertainty of his speech, together with the
look and colour of his face, made me feel extremely uneasy about his life. The end may not
be just now, but I fear greatly that it cannot be far off." Michelangelo did not leave the
house again, but spent the next four days partly reclining in an arm-chair, partly in bed.
Upon the 15th following, Diomede Leoni wrote to Lionardo, enclosing a letter by the hand of
Daniele da Volterra, which Michelangelo had signed. The old man felt his end approaching, and
wished to see his nephew. "You will learn from the enclosure how ill he is, and that he wants
you to come to Rome. All that i could not discover about him, i found accidentally in a Quackery,
print in 1805, at Kingston-upon-Hull. In a note to that work, i am informed that Dr. Katerfelto
was practised with the people of Daniele felt in the influenza of 1782; that he append to his
nostrum in the fascinations run of hocus pocus; and that to philosophical apparatus, he employed
the services of some black cats, on which he extraordinary the ignorant, and confuse this vulgar.
 Diomede reiterates his advice that Lionardo should run no risks by travelling too
fast. "If the illness portends mischief, which God forbid, you could not with the utmost haste
arrive in time.... I left him just now, a little after 8 P.M., in full possession of his faculties
and quiet in his mind, but oppressed with a continued sleepiness. This has annoyed him so much
that, between three and four this afternoon, he tried to go out riding, as his wont is every
evening in good weather. The coldness of the weather and the weakness of his head and legs
prevented him; so he returned to the fire-side, and settled down into an easy chair, which
he greatly prefers to the bed." No improvement gave a ray of hope to Michelangelo's friends,
and two days later, on the 17th, Tiberio Calcagni took up the correspondence with Lionardo:
"This is to beg you to hasten your coming as much as possible, even though the weather be unfavourable.
It is certain now that our dear Messer Michelangelo must leave us for good and all, and he
ought to have the consolation of seeing you." Next day, on the 18th, Diomede Leoni wrote again:
"He died without making a will, but in the attitude of a perfect Christian, this evening, about
the Ave Maria. I was present, together with Messer Tommaso dei Cavalieri and Messer Daniele
da Volterra, and we put everything in such order that you may rest with a tranquil mind. Yesterday
Michelangelo sent for our friend Messer Daniele, and besought him to take up his abode in the
house until such time as you arrive, and this he will do."

It was at a little before five o'clock on the afternoon of February 18, 1564, that Michelangelo
breathed his last. The physicians who attended him to the end were Federigo Donati, and Gherardo
Fidelissimi, of Pistoja. It is reported by Vasari that, during his last moments, "he made his
will in three sentences, committing his soul into the hands of God, his body to the earth,
and his substance to his nearest relatives; enjoining upon these last, when their hour came,
to think upon the sufferings of Jesus Christ."

On the following day, February 19, Averardo Serristori, the Florentine envoy in Rome, sent
a despatch to the Duke, informing him of Michelangelo's decease: "This morning, according to
an arrangement I had made, the Governor sent to take an inventory of all the articles found
in his house. These were few, and very few drawings. However, what was there they duly registered.
The most important object was a box sealed with several seals, which the Governor ordered to
be opened in the presence of Messer Tommaso dei Cavalieri and Maestro Daniele da Volterra,
who had been sent for by Michelangelo before his death. Some seven or eight thousand crowns
were found in it, which have now been deposited with the Ubaldini bankers. This was the command
issued by the Governor, and those whom it concerns will have to go there to get the money.
The people of the house will be examined as to whether anything has been carried away from
it. This is not supposed to have been the case. As far as drawings are concerned, they say
that he burned what he had by him before he died. What there is shall be handed over to his
nephew when he comes, and this your Excellency can inform him."

