Raiders of the Universes

By Donald Wandrei

  Childlike, the great astronomer
 Phobar stands before the metallic
  invaders of the ravished solar
              system. 

There are many ways by which power may switch forms, from one form into another and vice versa.
Thus, chemical force can become electrical current and that current
can change back into chemical being. He was sweeping the heavens with one
of the newly invented multi-powered Sussendorf comet-hunters when something caught his eye--a
new star of great brilliance in the foreground of the constellation Hercules.

For the rest of the night, he cast aside all his plans and concentrated on the one star. He
witnessed an unprecedented event. Mercia's nullifier had just been invented, a curious and
intricate device, based on four-dimensional geometry, that made it possible to see occurrences
in the universe which had hitherto required the hundreds of years needed for light to cross
the intervening space before they were visible on Earth. By a hasty calculation with the aid
of this invention, Phobar found that the new star was about three thousand light-years distant,
and that it was hurtling backward into space at the rate of twelve hundred miles per second.
The remarkable feature of his discovery was this appearance of a fourth-magnitude star where
none had been known to exist. Perhaps it had come into existence this very night.

On the succeeding night, he was given a greater surprise. In line with the first star, but
several hundred light-years nearer, was a second new star of even more brightness. And it,
too, was hurtling backward into space at approximately twelve hundred miles per second. Phobar
was astonished. Two new stars discovered within twenty-four hours in the same part of the heavens,
both of the fourth magnitude! But his surprise was as nothing when on the succeeding night,
even while he watched, a third new star appeared in line with these, but much closer.

At midnight he first noticed a pin-point of faint light; by one o'clock the star was of eighth
magnitude. At two it was a brilliant sun of the second magnitude blazing away from Earth like
the others at a rate of twelve hundred miles per second. And on the next evening, and the next,
and the next, other new stars appeared until there were seven in all, every one on a line in
the same constellation Hercules, every one with the same radiance and the same proper motion,
though of varying size!

       *       *       *       *       *

Phobar had broadcast his discovery to incredulous astronomers; but as star after star appeared
nightly, all the telescopes on Earth were turned toward one of the most spectacular cataclysms
that history recorded. Far out in the depths of space, with unheard-of regularity and unheard-of
precision, new worlds were flaming up overnight in a line that began at Hercules and extended
toward the solar system.

Phobar's announcement was immediately flashed to Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, the other
members of the Five World Federation. They go away frightened and amazed by my skill; and I often
over hear them saying that he must deal with the Devil, or he couldn't have told us all of this.

But
my skill consists of giving an account of things lost: I don't want the reader to think that
I talk about the small things, about who stole a spoon or what ever
happened to a lost thimble, things of no importance.

I do things that are more sublime. I account for things which some loss and no one can find.
 But every astronomer who had access to Mercia's nullifier hastened to focus his telescope
on the region where extraordinary events were taking place out in the unfathomable gulf of
night. Some terrific force was at work, creating worlds and disturbing the positions of stars
within a radius already known to extend billions and trillions of miles from the path of the
seven new stars. "First you may ingage y'r land parcel, concern and creditt that we
will most actually and punctually performe any our pledges to the
Irish, and as it is essential to resolve a calm suddainely, soe whatsoever
will be permitted unto by our lieutenant the marquis of Ormond.

       We will dyestuff a 1000 killings other than disannull or shatter
it; and if vpon necessity any thing to be condescended unto, and yet
the lord marquis not eager to be seene therein, as not fitt for us
at the present publickely to owne, doe you strive to provide the same."--Century
of Inventions by Mr. Partington, initial notes and authorized papers,
xxxv.

Then pursues a pledge to present any pledge made by him to Ormond or other ones, &c.  January
6. He obtained a charge to levy any number of men in Ireland and other components after the
ocean, with power to assign agents, obtain the king's leases, &c.--Birch, p. 18, from the
Nuncio's Memoirs, fol. 713.  January 12. He obtained another warrant of a most exceptional
recount, which I will transcribe from a MS. exact duplicate in my ownership, attested with
the earl's signature, and likely the very identical which he provided
to Ormond after his apprehend and imprisonment.

Whereas wee haue had adequate and plentiful testimony of y'r approued wisdome and fideliti. Soe
large is the self-assurance we repose in yo'w as that whatsoeuer yo'w will present as warranted
only under our signe manuall pockett signett or personal marke or even by woorde of mouthe
w'thout farther cerimonii, wee doo in the worde of a kinge and a cristian promis to make good
to all intents and reasons as effectually as if your authoriti from us had binne under our large
seale of England w'th this benefit that wee will esteem our self farr the moore obliged to yo'w
for y'r gallantry in not standing upon such pleasant tearms to doe us service w'h we will
God eager rewarde. And althoughe yo'w pass what regulation can warrant or any power of ours
come to unto, as not knowinge what yo'w may have require of, yet
it being for our service, wee oblige ourself not only to give yo'w
our pardon, but to mantayne the identical w'th all our might and power,
and though, either by misfortune yo'w loose or by any other event
yo'w will deem essential to deposit any of our warrants and so wante
them at yo'r returne, wee faythfully pledge to make them excels your
returne, and to provide any thinge wheerin they will be founde defective,
it not being befitting for us at this time to argument upon them,
for of what wee haue heer sett downe yo'w may rest assured, if theer
be fayth or reality in man; advance theerfor agreeably, spedelj, and
bouldly, and for your so doinge this shal be yo'r adequate warrant.

       Given at our Court at Oxford under our signe manuall and privat signet
this 12 of January 1644.

 At two-ten
he was thunderstruck by a special announcement sent from the Central Bureau to every observatory
and astronomer of note throughout the world, proclaiming the discovery of an ultra-Plutonian
planet. Phobar was incredulous. For centuries it had been proved that no planet beyond Pluto
could possibly exist.

       *       *       *       *       *

With feverish haste, Phobar ran to the huge telescope and rapidly focused it where the new
planet should be. Five hundred million miles beyond Neptune was a flaming path like the beam
of a giant searchlight that extended exactly to the eighth solar planet. Phobar gasped. He
could hardly credit the testimony of his eyes. He looked more closely. The great stream of
flame still crossed his line of vision. But this time he saw something else: at the precise
farther end of the flame-path a round disk--dark!

Beyond a doubt, a new planet of vast size now formed an addition to the solar group. But that
planet was almost impervious to the illuminating rays of the sun and was barely discernible. In
public or in private, England is the representative of straightforwardness." "It is expected
for an American to suppose so.

Each child that is taught to speak uses bolder terminology than its grandmother; but I am
rather at a loss to discern by what uniqueness of expression an American would have responded
your question." "An American would have revealed that Isaura Cicogna had a spirit, and his
counter would have proven it." "It hits me that he would then have
expressed straightforwardness more emotionless than mine.
With amazement and awe, Phobar sat through the long, cold night, watching a spectacular and
terrible catastrophe in the sky.

As dawn began to break and the stars grew paler, Phobar turned away from his telescope, his
brain awhirl, his heart filled with a great fear. He had witnessed the devastation of a world,
the ruin of a member of his own planetary system by an invader from outer space. As dawn cut
short his observations, he knew at last the cause of Neptune's brightness, knew that it was
now a white-hot flaming sun that sped with increased rapidity away from the solar system. Somehow,
the terrible swathe of fire that flowed from the dark star to Neptune had wrenched it out of
its orbit and made of it a molten inferno. 

       This was the way these causes worked.

(I wish I could use the word “thusly”—it’s fun to say.)

Since he wasn’t from around here, Dr. Hicok didn’t have the same moral code of someone who
was born in America, so he was easy to convince to do immoral things. He was from Scotland, so he
was really conceited and thought he was great at metaphysics, logic, and dialectics. He called
these things “dialektik”—I guess he thought trying to sound German would make him sound
smart. Scottish people are okay at logic and dialectics, but, ironically,
they tend to be both rotten at metaphysics and convinced that they’re
great at them.

Don’t waste your time trying to convince them otherwise--not because God says you shouldn't,
but because it's hopeless to try.

Dr. Hicok was also a doctor and a surgeon, and medical professionals tend to be either materialists
or extreme, loud Calvinistic Presbyterians.

On top of this, they’re stubborn, brassy, and sure of themselves (as they need to be to be
good doctors.)

So Hicok thought he had a personal problem, and was utterly convinced
he could outsmart and defeat it on his own. Unfortunately, things
didn’t go the way he had planned. The doctor wasn’t very intimidating—he
had graying, thin hair, freckles, tiny beady eyes, and goofy-looking
white eyelashes and eyebrows as though he’d just spilled flour all
over his kitchen when the ceiling fan was on. Neptune itself was almost invisible, hundreds
of millions of miles beyond its scheduled position. (The first copy of Miss Mitford's New Tragedy.)

Nicola di Rienzi, a relatively unknown man in 1437, had the idea of
changing Rome from its rundown state to not just good shape but to
what it had been in its glory. Sir Thomas Mitchell, Australian and other travelers have
spoken about their guides acute-equipped, in terms almost of affection, and Mr. Macgillivray
says that during his stay at Port Essington, a local named Neinmal
became more attached to him.

Some island natives had never seen Europeans before, but seem less inclined to acknowledge the
superiority of their visitors. They expressed alarm, but less on firearms controls and effects,
on one occasion attacked the ship's two boats, with a courage and confidence extraordinary circumstances.
In general characteristics, they resemble Torres Strait Islands: some tongs in a mop up two feet
in diameter, bearing a comb of about a yard long, and bunches of dogs teeth "hanging behind,
by way of ornament, and take no less pride in adorning their persons with paint and tattoo
marks, and the strong smell of flowers and plants.
Among the contrivances for procuring food, islands train locals suck
some fish (remora Echeneis) to chase the water as dogs are trained
to hunt on land.

       A line is quick to tail the creature, is then started looking for
prey, and once it was attached to a turtle, or any other "game", the
line is drawn and secured the prize.

While the bells are at anchor, a number of fish suck took their quarters at the bottom of them,
and whenever the crew fell overboard a bait has always been seized by one of remoræ in much
to the annoyance of fishermen on deck
 

If it was off, there was no reason why I should not hammer it to square-leg, a stroke which has become
vogue since my time, but back then, you did not frequently see it in first-class Cricket. It
was seen as "an agrarian outrage."

Foreigners and ladies found Cricket to be a most buoyant diversion if all the world, and especially
LEWIS HALL and SHREWSBURY, played on my principles. Innings would would be shorter. Fewer matches
would be drawn. The fielders would not get sick. I can't do anything if he doesn't help me! He is
the one who leads and who opens the heart. He is the one who knows the degree to which I yearn
to share his suffering as others who are devoted to him have been
allowed to do.

Phobar stared at the dull heavens in a daze, at the foreboding atmosphere and the livid sun
that burned faintly as through a smoke curtain. in introducing the ball, always be careful. Hands can
be cut or crushed. With practice, though, you can stop using the block of wood.
By The Stomach:
Using an esophageal tube, medicines may be direcly introduced to the
first stomach.

       It is also possible to go through the cannula of a trocar passed
into the paunch through the side.

This technique is often used in cases where the animal has issues with digestion.
By The Rectum:
While most of the time, rectal applications are usually necessary due to a local condition (in the
bowels or rectum itself), rectal insertion of suppositories can be used instead of oral treatments
if there is a problem. Only readily absorbed drugs should be given rectally when looking for
global effects, and in larger doses. More frequent doses also work. Ether, Alcohol, or the
aromatic spirits of ammonia, diluted by a factor of four to six times
with warm water, are all effective rectally.

If constipation is an issue, rectal injections (enemata) can help soften hard feces. The water
should be fairly warm, and should have a little soap in it for cleanliness. Cold water will make
the bowels contract. Use a rubber hose about half an inch wide and five feet long, with a funnel
on one end. Lubricate the end of the hose, then slowly insert two to three feet of it into
the rectum. Pour the liquid slowly into the funnel.
By the Udder:
In cases of parturient paresis (milk fever), the udder is often directly injected with a 1% solution
of iodid of potassium. Oxygen gas is another choice among many possible solutions. Because
of the great chance of infection from the injection, it is always recommended that this approach
be applied only by licensed and skilled veterinarians.

       It is very easy for a cow to lose an udder if it is done by amateurs.

To make the injection, one should use either a professionally prepared apparatus, or a milking
tube and funnel connected by a pies of small rubber hose. Be sure to boil whichever you use,
and keep it wrapped to protect it from dirt. The udder, teats, and the hands of the operator
should be disinfected, and the solution made from recently boiled water. Once the sterilized
milking tube has been inserted, pour eight ounces of solution into the funnel. When properly
enacted, this method is extremely safe for the animal.

By the Vagina:
Medicine may be inserted into the vagina or the uterus. There are
no general reasons to use vaginal applications, but in cases of vaginal
infection, spontaneous abortion, or after calving, you may have reason
to do so. "I envy you your luck; you go
with the heroes to do fine deeds. I would willingly barter my consular purple against one of
your brigadier's epaulettes" (16th March, 1800).
Italy's army had long suffered from a lack of bravery; their famous commander was the ideal man
to try to wring from it a final, heart-felt effort; it was to be
at the forefront of the allied attack.

Massena's troops were scattered far and wide when he was ambushed
by Melas.

Afraid of running out of necessary provisions, he failed to follow
the council of Bonaparte, and amassed his army around the town of
Genoa.

After a long series of ferocious battles on the upper Bormida, the
French army found itself divided by the Austrians, and General Suchet
was forced to retreat to Nice, while Massena found refuge back in
Genoa.

A further attack pushed Melas beyond the Appenines. After failing to reunite with Suchet's unit,
Massena was required to remain in Genoa where, although the loyalty
of the population was divided, he had managed to gain their trust.

Massena's plan was to continue to occupy by sorties and by restance the allied armies, and
he prepared to maintain the siege until the final battle. All of Genoa's resources were taken into
the military magazines, and although extreme rationing was ordered,
supplies soon ran short.

Massena's troops, worn thin by constant battle, grew smaller every day; food was scarce; and
only the heroic stubbornness of their commander caused the Austrians to keep their corps d'armee in
that deprived town (5th May, 1800).

       In the meantime, Melas' attempt to smoke out General Suchet's ailing
army from behind the lines of Var failed to produce any results.

Due to insufficient material, Moreau opted not to push the campaign forward; the massive means
of transport needed for his movement could not be supplied by Switzerland
and Alsace, which were extremely low on resources.

On April 24, he was urged by the First Consul to "Obtain a success as soon as possible, that
you may be able by a diversion in some degree to expedite the operations in Italy," as "every
day's delay is extremely disastrous to us." Moreau employed deceptive tactics against General
Kray, who was defending the Black Forest, as he passed the Rhine at Strasburg, at Brisach,
and at Basle on April 26.

The French army, meanwhile, crossed easily at Schaffhuasen. Because of the deceptive maneuvers
they were forced to execute, the Austrians were unable to gather their forces; the French army was
also scattered when the conflict began at Engen on May 3. After a ferocious battle, General
Moreau was victorious; just two days later victory was achieved in the battle of Moesskirch;
both sides suffered numerous losses.
 ARTICLE V: DUES
Sec. 1--Before the first meeting of the Administrative Council, the annual dues from each constituent
Society shall be five dollars, which shall be paid to the Treasurer.
Sec. 2.--Its dues shall be paid upon admission,if a Society be admitted into membership after
such date.

Sec.

3.--Neglect to pay for two years may be a cause for dismissal from the Association by the
Administrative Council. Societies who rejects the dues and remain unpaid after the time set
shall lose their vote in the Administrative Council until payment is made.
ARTICLE VI: DATE OF EFFECT
This Constitution shall take effect January 2, 1913.

ARTICLE VII: AMENDMENTS
An amendment to this Constitution may be adopted by a two-thirds vote
of the Administrative Council.

FOOTNOTES:

[G] See Prof. Sharfman's address, page 124and page 128, Dr. Kohler's remarks at the Convention luncheon.

[H] The Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs, passed a resolution of
greeting and welcome to the Intercollegiate Menorah Association, at
its Convention at Ohio State University on Dec. 26-30, 1914.

       

[I] Depends upon the will of the Society which accredits him. How, and to what extent, a Deputy
shall be instructed (This was the sense of the Constituent Convention.)
Notes
Menorah Association of the Intercollegiate
Dedication Exercises of Brown Menorah
On January 16, 1915, the Brown Menorah Society held its dedication exercises in the auditorium
of the Brown Union .

The Chairman was Maurice J. Siff, '15, President of the Society. Morris J. Wessel, '11, spoke
of the need of the Menorah from the graduate's point of view. Chancellor Henry Hurwitz, explained
the purposes of the Menorah movement, brought the greetings of the Intercollegiate Menorah Association.
President W. H. P. Faunce of the University,welcomed the Menorah
Society to Brown.

Rabbi Nathan Stern in his response, of Providence, spoke upon the significance of the Menorah,
and unveiled and lit a brass Menorah which he presented to the Society. "The Educational Value
of College Organizations," was presented by Dean Otis E. Randall, spoke upon that the new Menorah Society
would contribute to the uplift of the student body.
President Faunce said, in part: "This Society must justify itself
by making better Brown men than ever before.

       A man who respects himself, soul, body and spirit, the type of man
who flings himself gladly into whatever he believes in.

I hope to-night that every member of this Society will cherish the finest things in the history
of his own people and will cultivate everything that is worthy and noble and try to help his
brethren throughout the world."

The Thirty-Sixth Menorah Society 
The meeting preliminary to definite
organization was held in the Technology Union on March 9.

A Menorah Society has recently organized at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, in Boston.

In a communication to the Chancellor of the Menorah Association, Dean
Alfred E. Burton of the Institute writes:  
"I take pleasure in
stating that we shall be glad to have a branch of the Menorah Society
formed among our undergraduates.

They are all earnest students in good standing at the Institute and
I am sure they will be able to establish a branch of the Menorah Society
that will be a credit to the general intercollegiate organization."The
first lecture before the Society was delivered on April 5 by Dr. H.
M. Kallen of the University of Wisconsin.

The subject was "Hebraism and Nationality."

 

A big doll, literally coated with flowers, earns a pretty centerpiece for the table. Let ice lemonade
be served, each glass having a sweet flower floating onto its surface.

The cakes should be within the form of flowers and the bonbons, flower candies.

It is pretty towards dub each guest via the name of the flower granted
her when she arrives.

If there is melodies as soon as tea lent a tune of the flowers be
rendered.

AN EXCHANGE TEA.

This style of party is profoundly amusing, and shall keep a wide corporate interested for numerous
hours of an evening or afternoon, as it is one persisted round of
mirth-provoking "sells," within which everybody is "sold."

It is not so much within vogue for low affairs, whereas alone a few
guests are invited, but whereas a wide crowd is towards be entertained
it is just the thing towards furnish delight and fun.

       

This is how it is arranged. When asked towards attend an exchange tea, each fellow, male and lady,
options out from his belongings, personal or alternatively, such an article as he or she does
not need, and as soon as wrapping it well, robs it towards the party.

Of course, everybody wants towards remove his package, and the exchange
corporation waxes warm and furious as it moves, for habitually not
one specified obtains anything which he wishes towards keep, as a
"pig within a poke" is hardly ever a bargain.

Constant trading is not compulsory, so that whether via any lucky
likelihood you possess gotten rid of your own bundle, and become the
proud possessor of another whose no whereas treasures happen towards
suit you, otherwise you are favored towards give away and hold onto
towards your prize.

Generally speaking, however, the contents of the mysterious parcels are barely ever desirable,
which devises everybody the many excitement and eager bargaining, and within the end each one shall
be deserted with something silly or altogether useless, upon his hands.
And that's just whereas the fun arrives in.

Serve this menu:

Cold Sliced Chicken, garnished with small Radishes and Hard-boiled
Eggs Olives Nut Sandwiches Orange and Pineapple Salad Sweet Wafers
Strawberry Ice Cream Iced Tea 
A WATERMELON TEA.

Ask a friendly party, being sure that everybody are fond of watermelon. Have the fruit onto ice
at lowest twenty-four hours ahead of serving, and above everybody
things grant this affair when the temperature is up within the nineties
whether you need it fully appreciated.

 

To summarize his deductions, the writer infers that the procedure
to examine tensile strength is principally of use to gauge the class
of material, however for the end result, appropriately set experiments
by dropping weights are required.

 Since these delacacies have such a high butter content they must be
kept cold while being prepared.

To prevent alterations while frying, they can be iced for a couple
of hours before cooking.

       Cigarettes a la Chassuer are made of game and prepared in the same
manner as the previous recipe.

To prepare Lobster Quenellas one must use bread panada as they would for quenelle and then
poach and drain the quenellas. To serve, plate in a circle and garnish with Hollandaise sauce.

One will need a pullet or young hen to prepare Turtle Fashion Chicken. First, the bird must
be deboned. Second, the bird must be stuffed. The stuffing should consist of a half part lean boiled
ham; two parts each of hard eggs, mushrooms, and pate de foie gras;
and finally four parts minced veal. 

And it is true, he could rest me in that nasty, stinking hole, Canongate municipal jail, of which
your mother took me out - the Lord reward him! - Or for the cold, the place unbieldy, the Bass
Rock sea, which, with my delicate Kist would just ruin me. But I will be brave in the service of
my Master.

Here is a duty: the duty to my God, me, and Haddo: in strength, I will carry it out. '
Following closely, downloaded Francie to repeat history, and asked that in the future to avoid their
own eyes of the priest's whereabouts. "You have to go to their place of idolatry, look there!"
says, "but nowhere else. Avoid the eyes, close your ears, they go through him like a corp of
three days.

It's like that damn monster Basiliscus polluter - yes, poisons! - For the hearing. - All that
just claratory to the boy's mind.
Currently Montroymont came home and called Francie stairs. Traquair was a good shot and swordsman: and
it was his pleasure to walk with his son on the Braes of moorfowl,
or to teach her arms in the backcourt when they made a couple pretty
powerful, that the child is so lean, and light, and active, and the
squire himself a man of stature of men, pretty, her hair (a wig that
was put to one side) that shows white and many anxieties, and his
face a couple, flaccid red.

But the heart of this day in France was not in fencing.
"Sir," says he, suddenly lowering his point, "can you tell me one thing if you ask me?
"Ask away," says the father.

       "Well, is this," Francie said: "Why you and I meet if it is so bad?

"Yes, you have the depth of it too!" Montroymont screams. "But I'll tell it all. Is to try
to see if we can keep the rig in this house, Francie. If she had her way, we would beggar-folk,
and keep your hands on the road.

When you hear it - "When you hear the people," was corrected quickly, "called me a coward, and
who betrayed the Lord, and I Kenna best, only the mind that is to maintain a bed to sleep in you and
a snack for you to eat .-- On Guard "He shouted, and the lesson proceeded again until they were
called to dinner.
"Something else, however," said Francie, stopping at his father. "There's another thing I'm
not sure I'm very careful. She - she sends me messages.
"Obey it, then, as is their duty," said Traquair.

"Yes, but wait till I'm telling you," says the boy. "If I were to see I was going to hide." 
Montroymont
sighed. "Well, that's good for her too," he said. "The least I ken of thirteen works best
for me and the best we can do is just to obey and to see and be a good son to her, the same
that you are to me Francie.
In the tenderness of this expression Francie's heart swelled in his
chest, and his repentance was spilled. "Faith," cried, I said "Deil"
a day, and many is the time I said it, and sanctionable, and HELLITSH.
I know you're good, they are beeblical. 

       All the lights by which he guides addition up good citizenship other
than sectarianship.

We had long stopped to cultivate the former.

"There proceeds a clinic ship," and a Commander of one of H.M. Patrols sharp out to me a transport
full of wounded.

We considered in shame of that array of maimed men, of quiet pain, of bandages, slings, crutches
and artificial limbs, but abruptly there originated from the transport a strong barrack of
welcome and salutation to the white ensign. That was the answer of war's wreckage to those who pitied.
It is a magnificent Gospel that makes this. But the unseen, while full of awe, does not daunt him,
the fighter comes to out in the direction of the rather unidentified seeking for lightweight
and finding it. Under blaze entails so much, it is topped up up with so numerous knowledge, you stride
through a lifetime in a couple of seconds, you get new outlooks of the past years from another
bend of vision.

Shadow and darkness and question are hoisted, the fighter is open and dependable, he is not hide-bound
by petty superstitions, he is eager equitably to address and weigh all feelings, visions and
inward illuminations. He is not blinded with the dogma of either agnosticism or sectarianism,
while his sense of wit keeps him from numerous of the mistakes of the diverse "Christian" brotherhoods.
Curious sufficient, the persons who object to obligation, who are reluctant to hit a assault for
righteousness, always pertains to some of the freak sects and are
devotees of sectarianism in its narrowest meaning.

No question "Vicarious Suffering" the origin doctrine of numerous sects in this homeland is
to blame for the general shirking of obligation on the part of so numerous men to-day. Men gaze
to the ballot carton for their beef in due season.

       They desire all the privileges of citizenship without the responsibilities.

The sects of to-day in educating that the historic Christ took all
our sins upon His shoulder have made a kind of sentimental immoralist
who creeps under the protect of the Cross, content that Christ should
bear in his place. Daniel Webester became famous because with a host of distinguished
men formed the society. He was president of it for the first six years. He exercised a beneficial
influence until the beginning of the Civil War. When Mr. Wilder retired he recived the gold
medal of honor and a service of silver plate. He is also known for being a member of many other
horticultural and agricultural societies in this and foreign lands.

Colonel Wilder got interested in military affairs at an early age. When he was just sixteen years
old he enrollen in the New Hampshire militia, and when he was 21 he was commissioned adjutant.
He was chosen captain of The Rindge Light Infantry. At twenty-five
years old he was chosen lieutenant-colonel, and when he became twenty-six
he was commissioned as colonel of the Twelfth Regiment.