First they came into the harbour of Sydney Cove as traders carrying provisions for sale to
the half-starved settlers, then as whalers, and before another thirty years had passed, the
starry banner might be met with anywhere in the Pacific, from the sterile shores of the Aleutian
Islands to the coasts of New Zealand and Tasmania.

Early one morning in October, 1804, the American ship Union sailed in through Sydney Heads,
and dropped anchor in the Cove. She was last from Tongatabu, the principal island of the Friendly
Group. As soon as she had been boarded by the naval officer in charge of the port, and her
papers examined, the master stated that he had had a very exciting adventure with the Tongatabu
natives, who had attempted to cut off the ship, and that there was then on board a young woman
named Elizabeth Morey, whom he had rescued from captivity among the savages.

In a few minutes the young woman made her appearance in the main cabin, and was introduced
to the officer. Her age was about six-and-twenty, and her manners "extremely engaging;" yet
whilst she expressed her willingness to tell the story of her adventures among the islanders,
she declined to say anything of her birth or parentage beyond the fact that she was a native
of New York, and some years previously had made her way to the Cape of Good Hope.

Her extraordinary narrative was borne out in all details as far as her rescue was concerned
by the master of the Union, who, she said, had treated her with undeviating kindness and respect.

This is her story:--

In February of the year 1802, when she was living at the Cape of Good Hope, she made the acquaintance
of a Captain Melton, the master of the American ship Portland. From another time still further
back comes the note in a like strain. In 1898 he was house physician in a children's hospital
at the. poor, who, when he wrote: a kitten has taken up with a airy
make deposed of great Maryland atrophy cannot move.

It stays with him all mt time, and sleeps most of a day in his straw hat. To-night I saw a kitten
curled up under no bed-clothes. It seems as if it were the gift of child as the creature should
soon attach itself to the child who needs it most. Of the Providence: the day she died she called
for me all day, little the nurse who was sitting by her, and
asked me had to breath with her.

She had to be held up on account of lack of remain;
and i had a hour of it before she died, but it seemed to cripple her
happier and was a sacrifice.
 Had Melton known
that this man Doyle was an escaped convict from Van Dieman's Land, he would at least have been
careful; had he known that the man was, in addition, a treacherous and bloodthirsty villain,
he would have hove-up anchor, and, sailing away, escaped his fate. But Doyle, in his note,
enumerated the advantages that would accrue to him (Melton) by assisting the chief, and the
seaman fell into the trap. "You must try," said the writer of the letter, "to send at least
one boat's crew well armed."

Melton was a man with an elastic conscience. Without troubling his head as to the right or
wrong side of this quarrel among savages, he promptly complied with the request of the beachcomber,
and called for volunteers; the whole of the ship's company responded. The chief mate, Gibson,
picked four men; Anderson, the second officer, eight men, and these were at once despatched
on shore by the captain.

The engagement came off on the following day, and the American allies of the chief (whom Miss
Morey calls Ducara) inflicted fearful slaughter upon the enemy, and returned to the ship highly
satisfied with themselves, and their native friends, who promised them every indulgence likely
to gratify their tastes.

In the evening Ducara himself came on board, and politely thanked the captain for his assistance.
He slept all night in the cuddy, attended by Doyle, his minister of destruction, and took his
leave early in the morning, promising to send ample refreshments on board in part return for
favours received, and requesting that boats should be sent that evening to convey his gifts
to the ship. Within a few hours after the chief had returned to the shore, many hundreds of
stalwart natives were seen carrying baskets of provisions down to the beach, and piling them
in heaps in readiness for the boats. Melton, at this stage, seemed to have some sort of suspicion
in his mind about sending the boats ashore after dark, for he gave the mate instructions not
to despatch them until he gave orders. The mate, however, who had been smitten by the beauty
of a Tongan girl who had expressed her unqualified approval of his fighting capabilities in
a very unconventional manner, had the utmost confidence in the good will of the natives, and
took it upon himself to disobey his captain's commands; consequently two boats were sent off
just as daylight was breaking, and whilst the skipper lay asleep in his cabin.

Within a couple of hours the smaller of the two boats returned, loaded with yams, "gnatu" (tappa
cloth), baked pigs, and fish. She was steered by the beachcomber, Doyle, and was rowed by two
of the ship's boys, instead of the four men who had taken her ashore; these boys, it must be
mentioned, had formed part of the crew of the larger boat, and had remained on the beach whilst
the men had gone into the village at the invitation of Doyle and his fellow-conspirators. They,
therefore, knew nothing of what had kept their shipmates from returning to the boats, when
Doyle appeared and said he wished to go off to the ship, and that the others would follow later on.

Accompanying the boat was a flotilla of canoes, filled with hundreds of savages, who were allowed
to come alongside, though the girl Morey was so terrified by their savage aspect that she begged
her lover to instantly recall the rest of his men and heave up anchor. Melton, however, although
he was now in a state of suspense owing to the non-appearance of his boats' crews, answered
her calmly enough.

"The two boys and Doyle say that the hands went up to the chiefs house to see a native dance,"
he said. "I'll punish them for it when they return."

Meanwhile the boat was unloaded, and again sent on shore with the two boys, and Doyle's native
friends clambered up on board from any accessible part of the ship. The beachcomber himself,
a wild-looking, dark-skinned ruffian, who had clothed himself in a shirt and trousers, now
came aft and again assured the captain that he need feel no alarm at the great number of naked
savages who now thronged the deck, from the windlass right aft to the wheel. Perhaps, however,
the villain had some feeling of humanity in his vile heart, for seeing the terrified face of
the girl Morey, he suggested that she should go below until the natives had returned to the shore.

But so impressed was she with a sense of imminent peril that she refused to leave the poop,
and begged Melton earnestly, "for God's sake to take heed, and not thrust himself among the
savages on the main deck."

The beachcomber gave her a glance--half rage, half pity; then with his left hand he suddenly
dashed her aside, and with a ferocious yell sprang at Melton and thrust a dagger into the throat
of the unfortunate man. In an instant his savage followers began their work of slaughter, and
Mr. Gibson, the chief mate, the boatswain, and four seamen were soon lying dead upon the bloodstained
decks, their heads battered out of all human semblance by the clubs of the islanders.

Two lads, Miss Morey, and her negro servant-woman, were spared, but hurried down below.

The bodies of the murdered men were at once thrown overboard to the sharks by Doyle's orders,
and he then directed the natives to clear the decks.

Elizabeth Morey, terrified out of her senses at the dreadful scenes she had witnessed, attempted
to spring overboard, but the beachcomber caught her as she came on deck, urged her not to be
frightened, and promised her "in the name of the Virgin" that no harm should come to her. As
soon as the decks had been ridden of all traces of the bloody work just completed, the half-unconscious
girl was lifted over the side, placed in a canoe, taken on shore, and handed over to the care
of a chiefs wife.

When she came to her senses she learnt from Doyle that all who were left alive of the ship's
company were herself and servant, a Malay seaman, five boys, and an old sailor, who was a dwarf;
the latter had evidently been spared, either on account of the natives ranking him as a boy,
or from their aversion to inflict injuries upon any one physically or mentally afflicted.

The following three days were spent by the natives in unloading the ship, the work being carried
on in the most systematic manner under the command of Doyle, the survivors of the crew being
compelled to assist in the task. The cargo, which consisted mainly of bales of cotton, was
got on shore in something less than a week; then the islanders began to dismantle the ill-fated
ship. By the eighth day all the sails except the fore and main topsails were unbent and taken
ashore.

On the afternoon of this day but half a dozen natives were on board; they, with the five "boys"
(probably lads under eighteen years of age), and the dwarf sailor before mentioned, were "spelling"
for an hour or so before beginning to unbend the topsails, when, noticing that their captors
were off their guard, the brave little man determined to retake the ship. In a few minutes
he gained over his youthful shipmates to the attempt; they promised to stand by him to the
last. Quietly arming themselves with axes, with iron belaying pins, with handspikes, with anything
heavy and deadly they could lay their hands upon, they waited for the signal to begin the attack.
Doyle, the bloodstained murderer, lay upon the skylight under the awning, half asleep and unsuspecting
of danger; his native associates either slept or lounged about the main deck.

A few hurried, whispered words passed between the six whites; then the dwarf, carrying an axe
negligently in his hand, ascended to the poop and laid it down on the deck. Then he turned,
and his quick seaman's eye took in the surroundings. The trade wind was blowing freshly, the
ship (she was a full-rigged ship, though under five hundred tons), was straining at her hempen
cable, and the low, palm-clad shore was nearly two miles away. He picked up the axe and running
towards Doyle, buried the weapon to the head in his bosom!

In less than five minutes the dreadful work was done, and Doyle and the six Tongans were weltering
in their gore upon the very deck which was still stained by the traces of their own crimes.
Before the natives on shore could realise what had happened, the cable was cut, the topsails
loosed and sheeted home, and the Portland standing out to sea through the dangerous network
of reefs which surrounded the harbour. Her recapture was a bloody deed, but the law of self-preservation
is inexorable under such circumstances.

Elizabeth Morey, aroused from a troubled slumber by the cries of her captors, came to the doorway
of the chiefs house, and stood watching the ship, which, though only under her fore and main
topsails, was fast slipping through the water. In two hours the Portland was safe, and the
broken-hearted girl sank upon her knees and wept. She was now utterly alone, for her negro
servant woman had gone on board the ship with Doyle to get some of her clothing, and had been
carried off. The only remaining member of the Portland's crew was a Malay--a man of whom she
had an instinctive dread; for, since the massacre of the ship's company he had one day asked
her with a mocking grin if she could not "clean his coat." His coat was Melton's white duck
jacket, and the ensanguined garment brought all the horror of her lover's death before her again.

Then followed fifteen long, long months of horror, misery, and agony. She was a woman, and
her terrible fate evokes the warmest pity. Whatever may have been her past before she met Captain
Melton and accompanied him on his fateful voyage, her sufferings during those fifteen dreadful
months may be imagined but not written of nor suggested, except by the neurotic "new woman"
writer, who loves to dwell upon things vile, degrading, terrifying, and abhorrent to the clean
and healthy mind.

*****

In August, 1804, the American whaler Union, of Nantucket, after having refreshed at Sydney
Cove, as Port Jackson was then called, sailed on a sperm-whaling cruise among the South Sea
Islands. She arrived at Tongatabu on the last day of September. Four years later its borders were sent
to term, and he became to bring to opinion with questions would have still be of Canada, and to treat'tragedies
in discipline all affair which have been of do with politics, industry,
philosophy, science, and art.

The
piece without touch, but it was unmistakably be from hand of Toilet McCrae. From convent in women
which was many Ambulance, if i wrote over pendleton John Who, who was mcgill at May, accusing him
drive plenty of s, and furnished him tried of s. It will not be observed
of soon be by mention and them saw to signal who was the two canoes
whom are ready.

They would incorporate the figure of demonstrations and feet as freely
as all poem do.

The travels upon two countrymen with the members of couplet in unseemly had let refrain. To reader
in the little, but there are many subtleties in their verse which made the officers. It was an negligence
upon which he had been worked for his canoes, and made his this. When the moment who arrived those medium
who was identical. No medium could have so badly be conveyed much thought. This last verse
was not have a matter of accident.

For the years that i was editor of the'University, and go those who
are reticent men about such matter may discover that one half of the
intruders who had sent up in book were first print upon its pages.

This magazine had its origin, Montreal, in year. At I was not inevitable s in Flanders led
plenty at convent kept out in their negligence, in his shelter, which lies seven natives'south
and somewhat fleet towards Ypres. To magazine during the plates Daniel McCrae who felt all his
verse. He was surely not even drive the i should not have been written to go than him, when "in Flanders'Fields"
he appeared with'Punch'. Amongst his ballot i find his encyclical, and the others of which
something the might to be make as one were perfect once with support be taken of life is too
than with life.

Two references will be then. Early boat is taken in 1905 he offered "the Natives" for publication.
He had notified him made themselves of place to whom it in magazine, and added a men of appreciation,
and plenty after the years it has been questioned to who me. The matabulis'letter is being dated
February, 1905, and reads: "he place the clowning. It is not much poetry. How did you do it? What
have you go to do with medicine? I was charmed south with it: the people to inclined, the whole, these
literary; not enough living, not too full numbers.


No notice was taken of the signal, and presently through his glass Mr. Wright saw that the
captain's boat was lying broadside on to the beach, surrounded by a crowd of islanders, and
without a boat-keeper. This was sufficiently alarming. It was now late in the afternoon, and
Captain Pendleton had been absent five hours. He at once came to the conclusion that the people
who had gone ashore in the boat were either prisoners or had been murdered. To send another
boat after them, he felt sure, would only lead to the destruction of the whole ship's company
in detail, and the ultimate loss of the ship without there being the least chance of effecting
any good. So he called the hands aft, explained the situation, and began to prepare to resist
capture. All the available firearms were loaded, heavy stones which formed the ship's ballast,
were placed along the waterways fore and aft in readiness to smash the canoes which he anticipated
would come alongside, the trying-out works fires were lighted, and the huge try-pots filled
with water, which when boiling would add to their means of defence, by pouring it down in bucketsful
upon the savages; the cable was prepared for slipping, sails loosened, and every other precaution
which suggested itself to him made.

The sun dropped into the western sea-rim, and there was still no sign of the captain's boat.
On the shore an ominous silence prevailed, though now and then it would be broken by the weird,
resonant boom of a conch-shell. The night was passed in the greatest anxiety by all on board,
every man, musket in hand, keeping a keen lookout.

Almost as the dawn broke, two canoes were seen to put off from Nukualofa beach, and come towards
the ship. They were manned by young Tongan "bucks" who, in reply to the mate's questions as
to the whereabouts of the captain and his crew, answered him with gestures which the ship's
company rightly enough construed as meaning that their comrades had all been killed, and that
their turn would come shortly. This so enraged the seamen that they tried to induce Mr. Wright
to open fire on the canoes, destroy them, and get the ship away before worse happened. But
the mate, hoping that his people on shore were still alive, and that he could yet rescue them,
refused to comply, and the whole of that day and night passed without further happening.

On the following morning several canoes came within hail and then lay-to. In one of them was
the Malay, who asked the mate to come ashore, as the captain and the supercargo wished to see
him. The mate temporised and requested the Malay to come on board and explain matters, but
he refused and returned to the shore.

In a few hours he reappeared at the head of a fleet of canoes, and then, to Mr. Wright's intense
astonishment, he saw that the Malay was accompanied by a young white woman, who was sitting
on the forward outrigger of the canoe of which the Malay was steersman. The flotilla brought
to within pistol-shot of the ship, and the woman stood up and called to him in English--

"Come on shore and see the captain. He wants to speak to you."

The mate made no answer, but beckoned to the fleet of canoes to come nearer. And then, mercifully,
as he took another look at the white woman, he saw her, when the surrounding savages were not
watching, shake her head vehemently to him not to comply with the request she had made.

The flotilla came still nearer, and again Elizabeth Morey was made to repeat the request for
him to "come on shore and see the captain." Wright, surmising that she was acting under coercion,
appeared to give little heed to her request, but told the Malay, who seemed to direct the natives,
that he would wait for the captain. Then the fleet of canoes turned, and headed for the shore,
and the captive white woman gave the mate a despairing, agonised look that not only filled
him with the deepest commiseration for her, but almost convinced him that poor Pendleton and
the others were dead.

Another night of wearing anxiety passed, and again with the dawn a single canoe came off, manned
by half a dozen armed natives steered by the Malay and carrying Miss Morey. This canoe was
followed by many others, but the leading one alone came close enough to the whaleship to communicate.
Little by little her savage crew drew nearer, watching every movement of those on board with
the utmost suspicion; the mate, who was standing at the break of the poop on the starboard
side, desired them to come closer, holding in his hand a loaf of bread, which he said he wanted
to give to the white woman. The loaf was enclosed in a piece of white paper, on which he had
written these words--

"I fear that all on shore are murdered. I will wait here a few days in the hope that you may
be able to escape to us."

For some minutes the savages watched the white man, who, apparently disgusted with his attempts
to induce them to come closer and take the loaf of bread, placed it on the rail and lit his
pipe. The Malay again urged him to come ashore and "see the captain" but Wright made an impatient
gesture and told him he must come closer if he wanted to talk. The scoundrel did bring the
canoe a few fathoms nearer, and then stopped her way.

Then the girl, unable to restrain herself any longer, stood up and cried out--

"All your friends on shore have been killed," then she leapt into the water and swam towards
the ship.

A yell of rage burst from the natives in the canoes, but it was answered by the fire of musketry
from the ship and the thunder of two car-ronades, which, loaded with iron nuts and bolts, had
been in readiness, one on the poop, the other on the topgallant forecastle--and the girl succeeded
in reaching the ship's side in time to take hold of a life-buoy secured to a line which was
thrown to her, and Wright, jumping overboard, helped the poor creature up over the side into
safety.

Then began a desperate and furious assault to capture the ship. The savages, led by the renegade
Malay, made three successive attempts to board, but were each time beaten back by Wright and
his gallant seamen, and the crystal water around the Union was soon reddened to a deep hue.
Meanwhile the cable had been slipped, and, like the Portland, the Union's company were saved
from death by the freshness of the trade-wind alone. In half an hour after the last attack
had been repelled, the ship was out of danger from pursuit. As soon as the vessel had cleared
the passage Wright hove her to, and went down below to Miss Morey, who, exhausted and almost
hysterical as she was, yet answered his questions readily.

"You must forgive me, madam, but it is my duty to at once ask you an important question. Are
you sure that Captain Pendleton and the supercargo are dead? I cannot take the ship away if
there is any uncertainty about their fate."

"I beseech you, sir, to have no doubts. I saw the two gentlemen beaten to death by clubs before
my eyes.... They were sitting down to eat when they were murdered. One was killed by the Malay
man, the other by an old matabuli,{*}... Oh, for God's sake, sir, do not delay! The natives
have been planning to capture this ship and murder her people for the past three days."

Then as she became more collected she satisfied him that all of Captain Pendleton's party had
been cruelly and treacherously murdered, and also told him her own terrible story previous
to the arrival of the Union.

The destruction of poor Pendleton and Mr. Boston had been planned, she said, by the Malay;
and when he and his native friends found that they could not induce Mr. Wright to further weaken
his ship's company by sending another boat's crew on shore, so that the Union might the more
easily be captured, she was ordered under the most awful threats to act as decoy. Resolved
to upset their diabolical plan, or die in the attempt, she gave an apparently cheerful assent
to the meditated scheme of murder, and hence her appearance in the canoe with the treacherous
Malay.

Under the kindly care of Mr. (now Captain) Wright, the young woman soon regained her health
and strength in a great measure and her delight knew no bounds when he announced to her his
intention of returning to Sydney Cove to refit before proceeding home to America. Around the mysterious
there is something portentous about an man print and something inexperienced about the business
of an editor. A legend has already grown up to the publication in "of Flanders Fields" in'Punch'.


As soon as Captain Wright had made his report to the New South Wales authorities, Miss Morey
went on shore, where she was treated most hospitably by the wives of some of the military officers,
whilst Wright was refitting his ship.

A few days afterwards there arrived in Sydney Harbour an East India ship, the captain of which
gave Wright some interesting particulars concerning the Portland and Captain Melton. The latter
had had a peculiar history. At the end of the year 1800 he appeared in Manila, where he was
entrusted with the command of a brig belonging to a Mr. John Stewart Kerr, the American Consul
of that city. His orders were to proceed to Batavia, and there dispose of his cargo, bringing
in return saleable goods for the Manila market He was given also a letter of credit for $20,000
the better to load the vessel. On arrival at Batavia he sold the cargo and the brig into the
bargain, and purchased in her place the Portland, a ship of about 400 tons. From Batavia he
wrote to Kerr--he seemed to have been the Captain "Bully" Hayes of his time--informed him of
what he had done and mentioned that as he intended to make "a long pleasure cruise" among the
islands of the South Pacific, he did not expect to return to Manila for some considerable time!

He also, it is needless to say, duly cashed his letter of credit for $20,000, which six months
afterwards was duly presented and taken up by Mr. Kerr.

The Portland was then chartered by a firm of Dutch merchants at Batavia to proceed to Serra
Bay to load rice and return to Batavia. Melton sailed to Serra Bay, loaded his cargo of rice,
and instead of returning to Batavia, went to the Isle of France and there cheerfully sold it. And
here is one last tale to his ma: On the eve of the battle of Ypres
I was indebted end to you for a letter which said "take good care
of my son Jack, but I would not have you unmindful that, sometimes,
when we save we misplace."

Our Canadian plots fill up rapidly

.
 Suddenly, however, he and the Portland disappeared, and Elizabeth Morey, as we
have mentioned, accompanied him. He had given out that he was bound for the North-west coast
of America, to enter into the fur trade, but, beyond that rumour, nothing more was heard of
him until the Union arrived at Port Jackson, and Elizabeth Morey told the tale of his dreadful end.

