A BUSY YEAR AT THE OLD SQUIRE'S

by

C. A. STEPHENS

Published by The Old Squire's Bookstore Norway, Maine Copyright, 1922 By C. A. Stephens All
rights reserved

Electrotyped and Printed by The Colonial Press Clinton, Mass., U. S. A.

DEDICATED WITH CORDIAL BEST WISHES TO THE THOUSANDS OF READERS WHO HAVE REQUESTED THIS Memorial
Edition OF THE C. A. STEPHENS BOOKS

Contents

CHAPTER

        I. Master Pierson Comes Back

       II. Cutting Ice at 14° Below Zero

      III. A Bear's "Pipe" in Winter

       IV. White Monkey Week

        V. When Old Zack Went to School

       VI. The Sad Abuse of Old Mehitable

      VII. Bear-Tone

     VIII. When We Hunted the Striped Catamount

       IX. The Lost Oxen

        X. Bethesda

       XI. When We Walked the Town Lines

      XII. The Rose-Quartz Spring

     XIII. Fox Pills

      XIV. The Unpardonable Sin

       XV. The Cantaloupe Coaxer

      XVI. The Strange Disappearance of Grandpa Edwards

     XVII. Our Fourth of July at the Den

    XVIII. Jim Doane's Bank Book

      XIX. Grandmother Ruth's Last Load of Hay

       XX. When Uncle Hannibal Spoke at the Chapel

      XXI. That Mysterious Daguerreotype Saloon

     XXII. "Rainbow in the Morning"

     XIII. When I Went After the Eyestone

     XXIV. Borrowed for a Bee Hunt

      XXV. When the Lion Roared

     XXVI. Uncle Solon Chase Comes Along

     XVII. On the Dark of the Moon

   XXVIII. Halstead's Gobbler

     XXIX. Mitchella Jars

      XXX. When Bears Were Denning Up

     XXXI. Czar Brench

     XXII. When Old Peg Led the Flock

   XXXIII. Witches' Brooms

    XXXIV. The Little Image Peddlers

     XXXV. A January Thaw

    XXXVI. Uncle Billy Murch's Hair-Raiser

   XXXVII. Addison's Pocketful of Auger Chips

A Busy Year at the Old Squire's

CHAPTER I

MASTER PIERSON COMES BACK

Master Joel Pierson arrived the following Sunday afternoon, as he had promised in his letter
of Thanksgiving Day eve, and took up his abode with us at the old Squire's for the winter term
of school.

Cousin Addison drove to the village with horse and pung to fetch him; and the pung, I remember,
was filled with the master's belongings, including his school melodeon, books and seven large
wall maps for teaching geography. For Master Pierson brought a complete outfit, even to the
stack of school song-books which later were piled on the top of the melodeon that stood in
front of the teacher's desk at the schoolhouse. Every space between the windows was covered
by those wall maps. No other teacher had ever made the old schoolhouse so attractive. No other
teacher had ever entered on the task of giving us instruction with such zeal and such enthusiasm. "It is
very difficult to find the degree of exuberance that the arts of
Talking and Poetry may deny.

This question being thus far determined, we may continue with our paper in thinking the Idler.
There may, perhaps, be too great indulgence as well as too great a restraint of imagination; if the
one produces incoherent monsters, the other produces what is full as bad, lifeless insipidity.
An knowledge of the passions, and good sense, but not common sense, must at last attend its limits.


What was more, Master Pierson possessed the rare faculty of communicating his own zeal for
learning to his pupils. We became so interested, as weeks passed, that of our own accord we
brought our school books home with us at night, in order to study evenings; and we asked for
longer lessons that we might progress faster.

My cousin Halstead was one of those boys (and their name is Legion) who dislike study and complain
of their lessons that they are too long and too hard. But strange to say, Master Joel Pierson
somehow led Halse to really like geography that winter. Those large wall maps in color were
of great assistance to us all. In class we took turns going to them with a long pointer, to
recite the lesson of the day. I remember just how the different countries looked and how they
were bounded--though many of these boundaries are now, of course, considerably changed.

When lessons dragged and dullness settled on the room, Master Joel was wont to cry, "Halt!"
then sit down at the melodeon and play some school song as lively as the instrument admitted
of, and set us all singing for five or ten minutes, chanting the multiplication tables, the
names of the states, the largest cities of the country, or even the Books of the Bible. At
other times he would throw open the windows and set us shouting Patrick Henry's speech, or
Byron's Apostrophe to the Ocean. In short, "old Joel" was what now would be called a "live
wire." He was twenty-two then and a student working his own way through Bates College. After
graduating he migrated to a far western state where he taught for a year or two, became supervisor
of schools, then State Superintendent, and afterwards a Representative to Congress. He is an
aged man now and no word of mine can add much to the honors which have worthily crowned his
life. None the less I want to pay this tribute to him--even if he did rub my ears at times
and cry, "Wake up, Round-head! Wake up and find out what you are in this world for." (More
rubs!) "You don't seem to know yet. Wake up and find out about it. We have all come into the
world to do something. Wake up and find out what you are here for!"--and then more rubs!

It wasn't his fault if I never fairly waked up to my vocation--if I really had one. For the
life of me I could never feel sure what I was for! Cousin Addison seemed to know just what
he was going to do, from earliest boyhood, and went straight to it. Much the same way, cousin
Theodora's warm, generous heart led her directly to that labor of love which she has so faithfully
performed. As for Halstead, he was perfectly sure, cock-sure, more than twenty times, what
he was going to do in life; but always in the course of a few weeks or months, he discovered
he was on the wrong trail. What can be said of us who either have no vocation at all, or too
many? What are we here for?

In addition to our daily studies at the schoolhouse, we resumed Latin, in the old sitting-room,
evenings, Thomas and Catherine Edwards coming over across the field to join us. To save her
carpet, grandmother Ruth put down burlap to bear the brunt of our many restless feet--for there
was a great deal of trampling and sometimes outbreaks of scuffling there.

Thomas and I, who had forgotten much we had learned the previous winter, were still delving
in Æsop's Fables. But Addison, Theodora and Catherine were going on with the first book of
Cæsar's Gallic War. Ellen, two years younger, was still occupied wholly by her English studies.
Study hours were from seven till ten, with interludes for apples and pop-corn.

Halstead, who had now definitely abandoned Latin as something which would never do him any
good, took up Comstock's Natural Philosophy, or made a feint of doing so, in order to have
something of his own that was different from the rest of us. Natural philosophy, he declared,
was far and away more important than Latin.

Memory goes back very fondly to those evenings in the old sitting-room, they were so illumined
by great hopes ahead. Increased as i am, i could act you a tune on the harp hitherto, that you would
dance to. But neither you nor i should be a bit till the worse or wiser; or, if we were, his old
wisdom could be of a offspring. For, besides, the arts, as regards teachableness, stand from the
skill so in this, that their power is founded not simply on case which can be communicated, and on
dispositions which require to be practical.

Art is neither to be achieved by activity of puzzling, nor explained
by accuracy of talk. It was Tom and I who made
Latin noisy, aggravated at times by pranks from Halstead, whose studies in natural philosophy
were by no means diligent. At intervals of assisting us with our translations of Cæsar and
the Fables, Master Pierson himself was translating the Greek of Demosthenes' Orations, and
also reviewing his Livy--to keep up with his Class at College. But, night or day, he was always
ready to help or advise us, and push us on. "Go ahead!" was "old Joel's" motto, and "That's
what we're here for." He appeared to be possessed by a profound conviction that the human race
has a great destiny before it, and that we ought all to work hard to hurry it up and realize it.

It is quite wonderful what an influence for good a wide-awake teacher, like Master Pierson,
can exert in a school of forty or fifty boys and girls like ours in the old Squire's district,
particularly where many of them "don't know what they are in the world for," and have difficulty
in deciding on a vocation in life.

At that time there was much being said about a Universal Language. As there are fifty or more
diverse languages, spoken by mankind, to say nothing of hundreds of different dialects, and
as people now travel freely to all parts of the earth, the advantages of one common language
for all nations are apparent to all who reflect on the subject. At present, months and years
of our short lives are spent learning foreign languages. A complete education demands that
the American whose mother tongue is the English, must learn French, German, Spanish and Italian,
to say nothing of the more difficult languages of eastern Europe and the Orient. Otherwise
the traveler, without an interpreter, cannot make himself understood, and do business outside
his own country.

The want of a common means of communication therefore has long been recognized; and about that
time some one had invented a somewhat imperfect method of universal speech, with the idea of
having everybody learn it, and so be able to converse with the inhabitants of all lands without
the well-nigh impossible task of learning five, or ten, or fifty different languages.

The idea impressed everybody as a good one, and enjoyed a considerable popularity for a time.
But practically this was soon found to be a clumsy and inadequate form of speech, also that
many other drawbacks attended its adoption.

But the main idea held good; and since that time Volapuk, Bolak, Esperanto and Ido have appeared,
but without meeting with great success. From this passage we gather three important indications of the nature
of the Style. Other kinds may admit in this naturalness, which of the
lowest pupil is the chief school; but of nine painting, as in poetry,
and learn the highest style has been the least of common nature.

"
 "Latin is the foundation of all the modern languages of Christendom," he
said. "Or if not the foundation, it enters largely into all of them. Law, theology, medicine
and philosophy are dependent on Latin for their descriptive terms. Without Latin words, modern
science would be a jargon which couldn't be taught at all. Without Latin, the English language,
itself, would relapse to the crude, primitive Saxon speech of our ancestors. No one can claim
to be well educated till he has studied Latin.

"Now as we have need to learn Latin anyway, why not kill two birds with one stone, and make
Latin our universal language? Why not have a colloquial, every-day Latin, such as the Romans
used to speak in Italy? In point of fact, Latin was the universal language with travelers and
educated people all through the Middle Ages. We need to learn it anyhow, so why not make it
our needed form of common speech?"

I remember just how earnest old Joel became as he set forth his new idea of his. He jumped
up and tore round the old sitting-room. He rubbed my ears again, rumpled Tom's hair, caught
Catherine by both her hands and went ring-round-the-rosy with her, nearly knocking down the
table, lamp and all! "The greatest idea yet!" he shouted. "Just what's wanted for a Universal
Language!" He went and drew in the old Squire to hear about it; and the old Squire admitted
that it sounded reasonable. "For I can see," he said, "that it would keep Latin, and the derivation
of words from it, fresh in our minds. It would prove a constant review of the words from which
our language has been formed.

"But Latin always looked to me rather heavy and perhaps too clumsy for every-day talk," the
old gentleman remarked. "Think you could talk it?"

"Sure!" Master Pierson cried. "The old Romans spoke it. So can we. And that's just what I will
do. I will get up a book of conversational Latin--enough to make a Common Language for every-day
use." And in point of fact that was what old Joel was doing, for four or five weeks afterwards.
He had Theodora and Catherine copy out page after page of it--as many as twenty pages. He wanted
us each to have a copy of it; and for a time at least, he intended to have it printed.

A few days ago I came upon some of those faded, yellow pages, folded up in an old text book
of Æsop's Latin Fables--the one Tom and I were then using; and I will set down a few of the
sentences here, to illustrate what Master Pierson thought might be done with Latin as a universal
language.

     Master Pierson's Universal Language in Latin, which he named Dic
     from dico, meaning to speak.

    1 It is time to get up.            = Surgendi tempus est.
    2 The sun is up already.           = Sol jamdudum ortus.
    3 Put on your shoes.               = Indue tibi ocreas.
    4 Comb your head.                  = Pecte caput tuum.
    5 Light a candle and build a fire. = Accende lucernum, et fac ut
                                         luceat faculus.
    6 Carry the lantern. We must water = Vulcanum in cornu geras.
      the horses.                        Equi aquatum agenda sunt.
    7 It is a very hot day.            = Dies est ingens æstus.
    8 Let's go to the barn.            = Jam imus horreum.
    9 Grind the axes.                  = Acuste ascias.
    10 It is near twelve o'clock.      = Instat hora duodecima.
    11 It is time for dinner.          = Prandenti tempus adest.
    12 Please take dinner with us.     = Quesso nobiscum hodie sumas
                                         prandiolum.
    13 Make a good fire.               = Instruas optimum focum.
    14 This chimney smokes.            = Male fumat hic caminus.
    15 The wood is green.              = Viride est hoc lignum.
    16 Fetch kindling wood.            = Affer fomitem.
    17 Lay the table cloth.            = Sterne mappam.
    18 Dinner is ready.                = Cibus est appositus.
    19 Don't spoil it by delay.        = Ne corrumpatur mora vestra.
    20 Sit down.                       = Accumbe.
    21 This is my place.               = Hic mihi locus.
    22 Let him sit next me.            = Assideat mihi.
    23 Say grace, or ask a blessing.   = Recita consecrationem.
    24 Give me brown bread.            = Da mihi panem atrum.
    25 I am going to school.           = Eo ad scholam.
    26 What time is it?                = Quota est hora?
    27 It is past seven.               = Præteriit hora septima.
    28 The bell has rung.              = Sonuit tintinnabulum.
    29 Go with me.                     = Vade mecum.
    30 The master will soon be here.   = Brevi præceptor aderit.
    31 I am very cold.                 = Valde frigeo.
    32 My hands are numb.              = Obtorpent manus.
    33 Mend the fire.                  = Apta ignem.

I have copied out only a few of the shorter sentences. There were, as I have said, fully twenty
pages of it, enough for quite a respectable "Universal Language," or at least the beginnings
of one. The wood hyacinth and wild rose are, even, the only supreme flowers
that the lowlands can together estimate; and the alpine rose is also a mountaineer,
and the gentian bones in more hills, while the muscadine hyacinth,
or wood hyacinth, at its best cannot match generally the dark cascabel-fragrant,
leaving the light-blue mountain-gentian in its great queenliness,
and the wild rose and Wind heather wholly without similitude.

Indeed with this uncontested source of pre-eminence in mass of jewellery,
we have to show the influence of the inlaying and enamel-work of
the species-stone on every colour; and that of the continual variety
in colour of flower; most of the star flowers being, besides, separately
lovelier than the lowland ones.


"You will surely come back next winter!" we shouted after him as he drove away.

"Maybe," he said, and would not trust himself to look back.

The old sitting-room seemed wholly deserted that Friday night after he went away. "We are like
sheep without a shepherd," Theodora said. Catherine and Tom came over. We opened our Latin
books and tried to study awhile; but 'twas dreary without "old Joel."

Other things, however, other duties and other work at the farm immediately occupied our attention.
It was now mid-January and there was ice to be cut on the lake for our new creamery.

For three years the old Squire had been breeding a herd of Jerseys. There were sixteen of them:
Jersey First, Canary, Jersey Second, Little Queen, Beauty, Buttercup, and all the rest. Each
one had her own little book that hung from its nail on a beam of the tie-up behind her stall.
In it were recorded her pedigree, dates, and the number of pounds of milk she gave at each
milking. The scales for weighing the milk hung from the same beam. We weighed each milking,
and jotted down the weight with the pencil tied to each little book. All this was to show which
of the herd was most profitable, and which calves had better be kept for increase.

This was a new departure in Maine farming. Cream-separators were as yet undreamed of. A water-creamery
with long cans and ice was then used for raising the cream; and that meant an ice-house and
the cutting and hauling home of a year's stock of ice from the lake, nearly two miles distant.

We built a new ice-house near the east barn in November; and in December the old Squire drove
to Portland and brought home a complete kit of tools--three ice-saws, an ice-plow or groover,
ice-tongs, hooks, chisels, tackle and block.

Everything had to be bought new, but the old Squire had visions of great profits ahead from
his growing herd of Jerseys. Grandmother, however, was less sanguine.

It was unusually cold in December that year, frequently ten degrees below zero, and there were
many high winds. Consequently, the ice on the lake thickened early to twelve inches, and bade
fair to go to two feet. For use in a water-creamery, ice is most conveniently cut and handled
when not more than fifteen or sixteen inches thick. That thickness, too, when the cakes are
cut twenty-six inches square, as usual, makes them quite heavy enough for hoisting and packing
in an ice-house.

Half a mile from the head of the lake, over deep, clear water, we had been scraping and sweeping
a large surface after every snow, in order to have clear ice. Two or three times a week Addison
ran down and tested the thickness; and when it reached fifteen inches, we bestirred ourselves
at our new work.

None of us knew much about cutting ice; but we laid off a straight base-line of a hundred feet,
hitched old Sol to the new groover, and marked off five hundred cakes. Addison and I then set
to work with two of our new ice-saws, and hauled out the cakes with the ice-tongs, while Halstead
and the old Squire loaded them on the long horse-sled,--sixteen cakes to the load,--drew the
ice home, and packed it away in the new ice-house.

Although at first the sawing seemed easy, we soon found it tiresome, and learned that two hundred
cakes a day meant a hard day's work, particularly after the saws lost their keen edge--for
even ice will dull a saw in a day or two. We had also to be pretty careful, for it was over
deep black water, and a cake when nearly sawed across is likely to break off suddenly underfoot.

Hauling out the cakes with tongs, too, is somewhat hazardous on a slippery ice margin. We beveled
off a kind of inclined "slip" at one end of the open water, and cut heel holes in the ice beside
it, so that we might stand more securely as we pulled the cakes out of the water.

For those first few days we had bright, calm weather, not very cold; we got out five hundred
cakes and drew them home to the ice-house without accident.

The hardship came the next week, when several of our neighbors--who always kept an eye on the
old Squire's farming, and liked to follow his lead--were beset by an ambition to start ice-houses.
None of them had either experience or tools. They wanted us to cut the ice for them.

We thought that was asking rather too much. Thereupon fourteen or fifteen of them offered us
two cents a cake to cut a year's supply for each of them.

Now no one will ever get very rich cutting ice, sixteen inches thick, at two cents a cake.
But Addison and I thought it over, and asked the old Squire's opinion. He said that we might
take the new kit, and have all we could make.

On that, we notified them all to come and begin drawing home their cakes the following Monday
morning, for the ice was growing thicker all the while; and the thicker it got, the harder
our work would be.

They wanted about four thousand cakes; and as we would need help, we took in Thomas Edwards
and Willis Murch as partners. Both were good workers, and we anticipated having a rather fine
time at the lake.

In the woods on the west shore, nearly opposite where the ice was to be cut, there was an old
"shook" camp, where we kept our food and slept at night, in order to avoid the long walk home
to meals.

On Sunday it snowed, and cleared off cold and windy again. It was eight degrees below zero
on Monday morning, when we took our outfit and went to work. The child is the father of man; [232]
and wiser. At last, they exclaimed so much noise that I awoke, and thought to myself, "What a dream
that is, of children!" I must have done as many day as you before I leave the house, or I cannot possibly
go home in peace. " It was impossible to keep a fire; and it
always seems colder when you are standing on ice.

It makes me shiver now to think of that week, for it grew colder instead of warmer. A veritable
"cold snap" set in, and never for an hour, night or day, did that bitter wind let up.

We would have quit work and waited for calmer weather,--the old Squire advised us to do so,--but
the ice was getting thicker every day. Every inch added to the thickness made the work of sawing
harder--at two cents a cake. So we stuck to it, and worked away in that cruel wind.

On Thursday it got so cold that if we stopped the saws even for two seconds, they froze in
hard and fast, and had to be cut out with an ax; thus two cakes would be spoiled. It was not
easy to keep the saws going fast enough not to catch and freeze in; and the cakes had to be
hauled out the moment they were sawed, or they would freeze on again. Moreover, the patch of
open water that we uncovered froze over in a few minutes, and had to be cleared a dozen times
a day. During those nights it froze five inches thick, and filled with snowdrift, all of which
had to be cleared out every morning.

