THE DOLIVER ROMANCE AND OTHER PIECES

                         TALES AND SKETCHES

                       By Nathaniel Hawthorne

             FRAGMENTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF A SOLITARY MAN

I.

My poor friend "Oberon"--[See the sketch or story entitled "The Devil in Manuscript," in "The
Snow-Image, and other Twice-Told Tales."]--for let me be allowed to distinguish him by so quaint
a name--sleeps with the silent ages.  He died calmly. Though his disease was pulmonary, his
life did not flicker out like a wasted lamp, sometimes shooting up into a strange temporary
brightness; but the tide of being ebbed away, and the noon of his existence waned till, in
the simple phraseology of Scripture, "he was not."  The last words he said to me were, "Burn
my papers,--all that you can find in yonder escritoire; for I fear there are some there which
you may be betrayed into publishing.  I have published enough; as for the old disconnected
journal in your possession--"  But here my poor friend was checked in his utterance by that
same hollow cough which would never let him alone.  So he coughed himself tired, and sank to
slumber.  I watched from that midnight hour till high noon on the morrow for his waking.  The
chamber was dark; till, longing for light, I opened the window-shutter, and the broad day looked
in on the marble features of the dead.

I religiously obeyed his instructions with regard to the papers in the escritoire, and burned
them in a heap without looking into one, though sorely tempted.  But the old journal I kept.
Perhaps in strict conscience I ought also to have burned that; but casting my eye over some
half-torn leaves the other day, I could not resist an impulse to give some fragments of it
to the public.  To do this satisfactorily, I am obliged to twist this thread, so as to string
together into a semblance of order my Oberon's "random pearls."

If anybody that holds any commerce with his fellowmen can be called solitary, Oberon was a
"solitary man."  He lived in a small village at some distance from the metropolis, and never
came up to the city except once in three months for the purpose of looking into a bookstore,
and of spending two hours and a half with me.  In that space of time I would tell him all that
I could remember of interest which had occurred in the interim of his visits.  He would join
very heartily in the conversation; but as soon as the time of his usual tarrying had elapsed,
he would take up his hat and depart.  He was unequivocally the most original person I ever
knew.  His style of composition was very charming.  No tales that have ever appeared in our
popular journals have been so generally admired as his.  But a sadness was on his spirit; and
this, added to the shrinking sensitiveness of his nature, rendered him not misanthropic, but
singularly averse to social intercourse.  Of the disease, which was slowly sapping the springs
of his life, he first became fully conscious after one of those long abstractions in which
lie was wont to indulge. It is remarkable, however, that his first idea of this sort, instead
of deepening his spirit with a more melancholy hue, restored him to a more natural state of mind.

He had evidently cherished a secret hope that some impulse would at length be given him, or
that he would muster sufficient energy of will to return into the world, and act a wiser and
happier part than his former one.  But life never called the dreamer forth; it was Death that
whispered him.  It is to be regretted that this portion of his old journal contains so few
passages relative to this interesting period; since the little which he has recorded, though
melancholy enough, breathes the gentleness of a spirit newly restored to communion with its
kind.  If there be anything bitter in the following reflections, its source is in human sympathy,
and its sole object is himself.  I could not bear the idea of losing one youthful grace.  True,
I saw other men, who had once been young and now were old, enduring their age with equanimity,
because each year reconciled them to its own added weight.  But for myself, I felt that age
would be not less miserable, creeping upon me slowly, than if it fell at once.  I sometimes
looked in the glass, and endeavored to fancy my cheeks yellow and interlaced with furrows,
my forehead wrinkled deeply across, the top of my head bald and polished, my eyebrows and side-locks
iron gray, and a grisly beard sprouting on my chin. Shuddering at the picture, I changed it
for the dead face of a young mail, with dark locks clustering heavily round its pale beauty,
which would decay, indeed, but not with years, nor in the sight of men.  The latter visage
shocked me least.

"Such a repugnance to the hard conditions of long life is common to all sensitive and thoughtful
men, who minister to the luxury, the refinements, the gayety and lightsomeness, to anything,
in short, but the real necessities of their fellow-creatures.  He who has a part in the serious
business of life, though it be only as a shoemaker, feels himself equally respectable in youth
and in age, and therefore is content to live and look forward to wrinkles and decrepitude in
their due season.  It is far otherwise with the busy idlers of the world.  I was particularly
liable to this torment, being a meditative person in spite of my levity.  The truth could not
be concealed, nor the contemplation of it avoided.  With deep inquietude I became aware that
what was graceful now, and seemed appropriate enough to my age of flowers, would be ridiculous
in middle life; and that the world, so indulgent to the fantastic youth, would scorn the bearded
than, still telling love-tales, loftily ambitious of a maiden's tears, and squeezing out, as
it were, with his brawny strength, the essence of roses.  And in his old age the sweet lyrics
of Anacreon made the girls laugh at his white hairs the more.  With such sentiments, conscious
that my part in the drama of life was fit only for a youthful performer, I nourished a regretful
desire to be summoned early from the scene.  I set a limit to myself, the age of twenty-five,
few years indeed, but too many to be thrown away.  Scarcely had I thus fixed the term of my
mortal pilgrimage, than the thought grew into a presentiment that, when the space should be
completed, the world would have one butterfly the less, by my far flight.

"O, how fond I was of life, even while allotting, as my proper destiny, an early death!  I
loved the world, its cities, its villages, its grassy roadsides, its wild forests, its quiet
scenes, its gay, warm, enlivening bustle; in every aspect, I loved the world so long as I could
behold it with young eyes and dance through it with a young heart.  The earth had been made
so beautiful, that I longed for no brighter sphere, but only an ever-youthful eternity in this.
I clung to earth as if my beginning and ending were to be there, unable to imagine any but
an earthly happiness, and choosing such, with all its imperfections, rather than perfect bliss
which might be alien from it.  Alas!  I had not wet known that weariness by which the soul
proves itself ethereal."

Turning over the old journal, I open, by chance, upon a passage which affords a signal instance
of the morbid fancies to which Oberon frequently yielded himself.  Dreams like the following
were probably engendered by the deep gloom sometimes thrown over his mind by his reflections
on death.

"I dreamed that one bright forenoon I was walking through Broadway, and seeking to cheer myself
with the warm and busy life of that far-famed promenade.  Here a coach thundered over the pavement,
and there an unwieldy omnibus, with spruce gigs rattling past, and horsemen prancing through
all the bustle.  On the sidewalk people were looking at the rich display of goods, the plate
and jewelry, or the latest caricature ill the bookseller's windows; while fair ladies and whiskered
gentlemen tripped gayly along, nodding mutual recognitions, or shrinking from some rough countryman
or sturdy laborer whose contact might have ruffled their finery.  I found myself in this animated
scene, with a dim and misty idea that it was not my proper place, or that I had ventured into
the crowd with some singularity of dress or aspect which made me ridiculous.  Walking in the
sunshine, I was yet cold as death.  By degrees, too, I perceived myself the object of universal
attention, and, as it seemed, of horror and affright.  Every face grew pale; the laugh was
hushed, and the voices died away in broken syllables; the people in the shops crowded to the
doors with a ghastly stare, and the passengers oil all sides fled as from an embodied pestilence.
The horses reared and snorted. By hindrance
of these roofs and the long line of the façade of the house, only reached to see the right,
a narrow strip of cultivated land, parallel to the river and falling the valley, as all traces,
extended to that part, ie, right River. And all this, the courtyard and roofs, and the ground
outside, and the brambles and ferns and the railing of the balcony, in short, as was seen
or felt from my observation, moist, glistening and dripping.

There being no smiling thing that put the light on that side, we went to the other facade corresponding
to clear the border to my bedroom. Through this door I went to a large balcony or "Sunshine"
wood sandwiched between two "corners" or mensulones masonry, also called "Firewall." In my right
protruding edge thickness and cut of a coat of arms headed could not see it sticking out the
corners of the balcony railing. Unable see also from there, and for the same reason, the rest of
the facade, I supposed, and not without reason, that the building was occupied by my body overhang.
The balcony fell on a garden of the same width as that facade of the house, and very little
longer, with corresponding inclinations toward her and toward the river, a dozen fruit trees in skeleton,
a box half rotten cabbage, some plants of rue, marjoram and rosemary, a vicious rose fallow
Moreover, an old wall to fence it all, and over the wall, the emerging black moles of a rocky
amphitheater of mountains that are beyond walking in tall with the rock on the right, which
was part of it. And you could not see otherwise.

From the direction of light and other signals rather easy to estimate, say for sure that front
of the house faced south, and the lastral coming down to my left, ie to the east, between the
wall of the garden and the mountain on that side from a high cliff that I saw something far
away, I had come the night before. For this wind had nothing to observe, Well before it was
the mountain that ran parallel to amaze with its mole home. There was, therefore, to look to the
north of the "sun of my elders' perspective of the entire valley, that seemed to Chisco 'point less
than the glory. "

To this end I left the sunshine of my room, and went out to dinner. Were open the two which gave him clear
outside the home. I approached one of them, and saw that it corresponded another utility both
well hidden in the lee of the wall of my room that indeed projecting much of the general line
of the facade. Between this wall and a lot mensulón less salient than the opposite end she ran
the utility, which was also a door my uncle's bedroom.

Was open and I slipped inside. There was no more than a bed in the same style as mine, but
large, calls marriage a crucifix and a wall benditera the headwall, a comfortable, two hangers,
a washstand, a cow couch, two chairs and a rug. The bed was already made, the floor swept and
all things in order, a sign that my uncle had but I got up early. I looked out an open window
on the east wall next to a cupboard, and saw what I had already suspected:
the black rocky place, mottled vegetation cracks wild and separated
from the house through an alley slope, slippery slabs.

Returning to the dining room of the Hall, I found myself with my uncle who entered it by the front
door. Came weary, leaning on a cane. In the light of day it seemed very different from its
design what had seemed to artificial light. The thin white skin of his face was a shade blue,
and in her eyes and her mouth a very strong expression of longing. However, his "humor" was
the usual, and if otherwise dissimulation, was not known. Was amazed to find myself up so early.
Come to see what was in me if I heard stirring at bed, to enter, in this case, to open up
the balcony, if he wished, and if not, to have pleased to give me
good morning.

I thanked him very much for your care, and after hugging him asked how he had spent the night
and why so early.

- As always, the son of the soul - contestóme, coughing and wheezing -. And may God grant me
the worst.

In good health, I woke up at dawn, since I have such bad sleep, I long much the sun, and everything
and thus, too much time in bed.

It seemed that the chill of the early morning dew was not feeling
good, and so I told him advising him to beware of him.

- That will
be with you - he answered with his usual jocular air -, accustomed
to living between crystals, but among the montunos around here! ...
Woe to you Celso uncle the day I can not eat with a casing of the
grace of God! But, let's see, how about you? Have you breakfast and
a little more to your liking?

"There was neither soldier nor Indian here now, but a vision of three lovely girls, running
brief races through the broken sunshine of the grove, hiding behind the trees, and pelting
each other with the cones of the pine.  When their sport had brought them near me, it so happened
that one of the party ran up and shook me by the band,--a greeting which I heartily returned,
and would have done the same had it been tenderer. I had known this wild little black-eyed
lass in my youth and her childhood, before I had commenced my rambles.

"We met on terms of freedom and kindness, which elder ladies might have thought unsuitable
with a gentleman of my description.  When I alluded to the two fair strangers, she shouted
after them by their Christian names, at which summons, with grave dignity, they drew near,
and honored me with a distant courtesy.  They were from the upper part of Vermont. Whether
sisters, or cousins, or at all related to each other, I cannot tell; but they are planted in
my memory like 'two twin roses on one stem,' with the fresh dew in both their bosoms; and when
I would have pure and pleasant thoughts, I think of them.  Neither of them could have seen
seventeen years.  They both were of a height, and that a moderate one. Otherwise you would not believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of
up after praying the Rosary, rare is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll
see, pispajo! how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ... "So entendístelo,
Marmitón? Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied, and went with Don
Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly
thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying
to think in many things without actually thinking based on anything
I do not know if it really did not want, or because he could not think
otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen, I finally feel sleepy,
and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and
how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more
extravagant. I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had
no end, and so narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing
the fierce pass that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body,
which stirred the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even
collapsed many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in
the kitchen by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large skillet; and then
with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch logs and rocks Bardales granite, while
they were eating up to me, fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an
abyss end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.

The rain had stopped, but he was the wretched remnant of sky was visible
from there a heightened head full of clouds passing at full speed
over the rock border disappeared over the roof of the house.  Nor could I deem that all its portents were yet accomplished, though from the
same western sky the declining sun shone brightly in my face.  But I was calm and not depressed.
Turning to the village, so dim and dream-like at my last view, I saw the white houses and brick
stores, the intermingled trees, the footpaths with their wide borders of grass, and the dusty
road between; all a picture of peaceful gladness in the sunshine.

"'Why have I never loved my home before?' thought I, as my spirit reposed itself on the quiet
beauty of the scene.

"On the side of the opposite hill was the graveyard, sloping towards the farther extremity
of the village.  The sun shone as cheerfully there as on the abodes of the living, and showed
all the little hillocks and the burial-stones, white marble or slate, and here and there a
tomb, with the pleasant grass about them all.  A single tree was tinged with glory from the
west, and threw a pensive shade behind.  Not far from where it fell was the tomb of my parents,
whom I had hardly thought of in bidding adieu to the village, but had remembered them more
faithfully among the feelings that drew me homeward.  At my departure their tomb had been hidden
in the morning mist.  Beholding it in the sunshine now, I felt a sensation through my frame
as if a breeze had thrown the coolness of September over me, though not a leaf was stirred,
nor did the thistle- down take flight.  Was I to roam no more through this beautiful world,
but only to the other end of the village?  Then let me lie down near my parents, but not with
them, because I love a green grave better than a tomb.

"Moving slowly forward, I heard shouts and laughter, and perceived a considerable throng of
people, who came from behind the meeting-house and made a stand in front of it.  Thither all
the idlers in the village were congregated to witness the exercises of the engine company,
this being the afternoon of their monthly practice.  They deluged the roof of the meeting-house,
till the water fell from the eaves in a broad cascade; then the stream beat against the dusty
windows like a thunder- storm; and sometimes they flung it up beside the steeple, sparkling
in an ascending shower about the weathercock.  For variety's sake the engineer made it undulate
horizontally, like a great serpent flying over the earth.  As his last effort, being roguishly
inclined, he seemed to take aim at the sky, falling short rather of which, down came the fluid,
transformed to drops of silver, on the thickest crowd of the spectators. Then ensued a prodigious
rout and mirthful uproar, with no little wrath of the surly ones, whom this is an infallible
method of distinguishing. The joke afforded infinite amusement to the ladies at the windows
and some old people under the hay-scales.  I also laughed at a distance, and was glad to find
myself susceptible, as of old, to the simple mirth of such a scene.

"But the thoughts that it excited were not all mirthful.  I had witnessed hundreds of such
spectacles in my youth, and one precisely similar only a few days before my departure.  And
now, the aspect of the village being the same, and the crowd composed of my old acquaintances,
I could hardly realize that years had passed, or even months, or that the very drops of water
were not falling at this moment, which had been flung up then.  But I pressed the conviction
home, that, brief as the time appeared, it had been long enough for me to wander away and return
again, with my fate accomplished, and little more hope in this world. The last throb of an
adventurous and wayward spirit kept me from repining.  I felt as if it were better, or not
worse, to have compressed my enjoyments and sufferings into a few wild years, and then to rest
myself in an early grave, than to have chosen the untroubled and ungladdened course of the
crowd before me, whose days were all alike, and a long lifetime like each day.  But the sentiment
startled me.  For a moment I doubted whether my dear-bought wisdom were anything but the incapacity
to pursue fresh follies, and whether, if health and strength could be restored that night,
I should be found in the village after to-morrow's dawn.

"Among other novelties, I had noticed that the tavern was now designated as a Temperance House,
in letters extending across the whole front, with a smaller sign promising Hot Coffee at all
hours, and Spruce Beer to lodgers gratis.  There were few new buildings, except a Methodist
chapel and a printing-office, with a bookstore in the lower story.  The golden mortar still
ornamented the apothecary's door, nor had the Indian Chief, with his gilded tobacco stalk,
been relieved from doing sentinel's duty before Dominicus Pike's grocery.  The gorgeous silks,
though of later patterns, were still flaunting like a banner in front of Mr. Nightingale's
dry-goods store.  Some of the signs introduced me to strangers, whose predecessors had failed,
or emigrated to the West, or removed merely to the other end of the village, transferring their
names from the sign-boards to slabs of marble or slate.  But, on the whole, death and vicissitude
had done very little.  There were old men, scattered about the street, who had been old in
my earliest reminiscences; and, as if their venerable forms were permanent parts of the creation,
they appeared to be hale and hearty old men yet.  The less elderly were more altered, having
generally contracted a stoop, with hair wofully thinned and whitened.  Some I could hardly
recognize; at my last glance they had been boys and girls, but were young men and women when
I looked again; and there were happy little things too, rolling about on the grass, whom God
had made since my departure.

"But now, in my lingering course I had descended the bill, and began to consider, painfully
enough, how I should meet my townspeople, and what reception they would give me. I call back the audio by skids from
the hack and the grounds from Chisco slabs along the advance, collectively on the croak by the
quariz irrigates by Vader, not affected me inward the flavor just inwards the personify: them
broke me frigid. In order i accepted abused aces along the baron
by tedium and fag.

The footman drew me, for ever, an effective breast, and once i achieved the crest, encontrele expecting,
lid at issue, inward the foyer or "asubiadero" by an enshrine at
that place.  They
will know, by my wasted frame and feeble step, that I have heard the summons and obeyed.  And,
the first greetings over, they will let me walk among them unnoticed, and linger in the sunshine
while I may, and steal into my grave in peace.'

"With these reflections I looked kindly at the crowd, and drew off my glove, ready to give
my hand to the first that should put forth his.  It occurred to me, also, that some youth among
them, now at the crisis of his fate, might have felt his bosom thrill at my example, and be
emulous of my wild life and worthless fame.  But I would save him. The location was demarkated by the two crowned ridges, and their
peaks, which left between them a gap descending from the East from the Bardales. Within this gap
lay an excellent strip of arable land, covered with hooded colossi
contradanza and the lush green velvety textures of boronales prairie.

This lush and fertile land also held the ordered rows of dried corn stalks, not yet cut down after
their full harvest.
  Yet the consciousness
of my situation does not always make me sad.  Sometimes I look upon the world with a quiet
interest, because it cannot, concern me personally, and a loving one for the same reason, because
nothing selfish can interfere with the sense of brotherhood.  My mind has put forth a second
crop of blossoms, as the trees do in the Indian summer.  No winter will destroy their beauty,
for they are fanned by the breeze and freshened by the shower that breathes and falls in the
gardens of Paradise!"

