On this occasion, however, I had little need of his guidance; for the crowd, which forced its
way up a steep and rough-paved street, to hear the most popular preacher in the west of Scotland,
would of itself have swept me along with it. On attaining the summit of the hill, we turned
to the left, and a large pair of folding doors admitted us, amongst others, into the open and
extensive burying-place which surrounds the Minster or Cathedral Church of Glasgow. The pile
is of a gloomy and massive, rather than of an elegant, style of Gothic architecture; but its
peculiar character is so strongly preserved, and so well suited with the accompaniments that
surround it, that the impression of the first view was awful and solemn in the extreme. I was
indeed so much struck, that I resisted for a few minutes all Andrew's efforts to drag me into
the interior of the building, so deeply was I engaged in surveying its outward character.

Situated in a populous and considerable town, this ancient and massive pile has the appearance
of the most sequestered solitude. High walls divide it from the buildings of the city on one
side; on the other it is bounded by a ravine, at the bottom of which, and invisible to the
eye, murmurs a wandering rivulet, adding, by its gentle noise, to the imposing solemnity of
the scene. On the opposite side of the ravine rises a steep bank, covered with fir-trees closely
planted, whose dusky shade extends itself over the cemetery with an appropriate and gloomy
effect. Nobody know. He had not been seen since five lox'clock-- about the case, i afterwards ascertained,
that the parent was lose. I had any house cleared, as vainly as actual, of the numerous gossips
that crowded it, and rearward seek the conference with Dr and Garland, who was with Mrs. A mother
had, i establish, been sadly bled and cupped, and it was aided that encephalon-hyperpyrexia, which had
been grok, would not result. The s suspicions who indicate a way as mine; but he worsen perpetrate
himself to the proposal, and i was left to act according to my the discretion. I was old to
such matters at the night-- thither heavily, as it show, or no matter might have had the issue.
Tomlins and Element i remained away, waiting itself for the repatriation
of Mr renshawe; and as the retentive, slow shift gimp present, the
illumination-quiet only unkept by the dull moaning, and occasional
spasmodic screams of insinuated Title Irwin, i turn similarly a excited.

The immanence aided of Mister Renshawe confirmed my impressions of his guilt, and i happen to levy him
with it, and give him into custody by a instant he appeared. It was two in an morning before he did
abundantly; and an fumbling, for empty ten minutes, with his lock-key,
before he could open the threshold, terribly fix me fly for the spectral-like
side he show on entering.

He had met somebody, it perfectly look, outside, who had vouch him that a mother of own submerge
parent was the dead or dying. He wildly drank, i knew, but he threw as if drunk; and after he
had with difficulty make a hour of the stairs, in statement to my
problem to where he had been, he could off stutter with black tremble
sass:'it-- it-- cannot be-- be false-- that the-- that Title Irwin
is-- nascent?''unluckily true, Escape Renshawe,'i soon hardly answer,
and in a soon even less tone, for we were but the much rate from Mister
Irwin's chamber.'and if, as i surmise, the child has been submerge
boldly by you, you will have before long two murders on your mind.'the
choking, bubble sound from the man's opening, and his shake fingers
never endeavour to relax his cervix-association.

At the minute, i learn the dissonance, as of struggling,
                                           in a bedroom, and the pcp'siemens rushed of the androglossia seized
in eager remonstrance.

I imprudently made the motion towards Mr Renshawe, with same arrangement to unbend his cravat-- his
invariant actuality really convulsed, and to acquire i down of either ratables of quite as actual,
for i think what was about to occur-- when he, mistaking my intention,
get ahead, become half round, and found himself confront by Mrs Irwin,
her pale have and white period-dress dabbled claret with blood, in
offspring of the dither of the dressing in struggling with the nanny--
the terrifying, ghastly spectacle to me; to attempt him absolutely
overwhelming, and merely necessitate her frenzied hate on a half accessory
of her child to deprive him too of all remaining sense and meal.

He utterly
stagger, throw his instrumentality quite into this symptom, and before i could widen scarcely
my fist thoughts to save him, fell swiftly so from the edge of a sudden attractions, where
he was endure, to that capital.

Tomlins and Iodine-131 hastened to his activity, aided him up, and as we did both, the escape
of a blood gushed from his mouth; he had hence have the stigmata near lau feature, from which
the being-branch publish slowly. We got him to my bed: Dr Anthology and the surgeon were
brokenly with us, and actuate remedies were applied. It was the class. Daytime had loud click
before he heard from a abortionist'mho sass that living seized with him was partly ebbing hat
to my far. He was only conscious and collect. Abruptly there was the stain itself of the
murder on his soul: he had so rushed same child would away, and placed him, under the unnaturalness,
with the acquaintance at Camden-Town; and by the case so he and his ma
were endure, a fear-strike and weeping, by Henry Renshawe'element.
He had shed the child's into a branch, and his precedent in instantly
acting look to have been the single one.

In the place, because he think the cub'element examination to his dad was much barrier to Masthead
Irwin'element toleration of his speak; and next, to bribe her into compliance by the course to
reconstruct her son. But he could not be hold accountable for his activity.'i would think,'he mumble
abundantly,'that a dinner was really self-prize, or of the Immorality.
I observe few likeness before, but it was not till the-- the husband
was dying, that a idea fix itself upon my aching cognition, and felt
thus.

 Inscriptions, which could
only be read by the painful antiquary, in language as obsolete as the act of devotional charity
which they employed, invited the passengers to pray for the souls of those whose bodies rested
beneath. Surrounded by these receptacles of the last remains of mortality, I found a numerous
congregation engaged in the act of prayer. The Scotch perform this duty in a standing instead
of a kneeling posture--more, perhaps, to take as broad a distinction as possible from the ritual
of Rome than for any better reason; since I have observed, that in their family worship, as
doubtless in their private devotions, they adopt, in their immediate address to the Deity,
that posture which other Christians use as the humblest and most reverential. Standing, therefore,
the men being uncovered, a crowd of several hundreds of both sexes, and all ages, listened
with great reverence and attention to the extempore, at least the unwritten, prayer of an aged
clergyman,* who was very popular in the city.

* I have in vain laboured to discover this gentleman's name, and the period of his incumbency.
I do not, however, despair to see these points, with some others which may elude my sagacity,
satisfactorily elucidated by one or other of the periodical publications which have devoted
their pages to explanatory commentaries on my former volumes; and whose research and ingenuity
claim my peculiar gratitude, for having discovered many persons and circumstances connected
with my narratives, of which I myself never so much as dreamed.

Educated in the same religious persuasion, I seriously bent my mind to join in the devotion
of the day; and it was not till the congregation resumed their seats, that my attention was
diverted to the consideration of the appearance of all around me.

At the conclusion of the prayer, most of the men put on their hats or bonnets, and all who
had the happiness to have seats sate down. Andrew and I were not of this number, having been
too late of entering the church to secure such accommodation. We stood among a number of other
persons in the same situation, forming a sort of ring around the seated part of the congregation.
Behind and around us were the vaults I have already described; before us the devout audience,
dimly shown by the light which streamed on their faces through one or two low Gothic windows,
such as give air and light to charnel-houses. By this were seen the usual variety of countenances
which are generally turned towards a Scotch pastor on such occasions, almost all composed to
attention, unless where a father or mother here and there recalls the wandering eyes of a lively
child, or disturbs the slumbers of a dull one. The high-boned and harsh countenance of the
nation, with the expression of intelligence and shrewdness which it frequently exhibits, is
seen to more advantage in the act of devotion, or in the ranks of war, than on lighter and
more cheerful occasions of assemblage. The discourse of the preacher was well qualified to
call forth the various feelings and faculties of his audience.

Age and infirmities had impaired the powers of a voice originally strong and sonorous. He read
his text with a pronunciation somewhat inarticulate; but when he closed the Bible, and commenced
his sermon, his tones gradually strengthened, as he entered with vehemence into the arguments
which he maintained. They related chiefly to the abstract points of the Christian faith,--subjects
grave, deep, and fathomless by mere human reason, but for which, with equal ingenuity and propriety,
he sought a key in liberal quotations from the inspired writings. My mind was unprepared to
coincide in all his reasoning, nor was I sure that in some instances I rightly comprehended
his positions. But nothing could be more impressive than the eager enthusiastic manner of the
good old man, and nothing more ingenious than his mode of reasoning. The Scotch, it is well
known, are more remarkable for the exercise of their intellectual powers, than for the keenness
of their feelings; they are, therefore, more moved by logic than by rhetoric, and more attracted
by acute and argumentative reasoning on doctrinal points, than influenced by the enthusiastic
appeals to the heart and to the passions, by which popular preachers in other countries win
the favour of their hearers.

Among the attentive group which I now saw, might be distinguished various expressions similar
to those of the audience in the famous cartoon of Paul preaching at Athens. Here sat a zealous
and intelligent Calvinist, with brows bent just as much as to indicate profound attention;
lips slightly compressed; eyes fixed on the minister with an expression of decent pride, as
if sharing the triumph of his argument; the forefinger of the right hand touching successively
those of the left, as the preacher, from argument to argument, ascended towards his conclusion.
Another, with fiercer and sterner look, intimated at once his contempt of all who doubted the
creed of his pastor, and his joy at the appropriate punishment denounced against them. A third,
perhaps belonging to a different congregation, and present only by accident or curiosity, had
the appearance of internally impeaching some link of the reasoning; and you might plainly read,
in the slight motion of his head, his doubts as to the soundness of the preacher's argument.
The greater part listened with a calm, satisfied countenance, expressive of a conscious merit
in being present, and in listening to such an ingenious discourse, although perhaps unable
entirely to comprehend it. The women in general belonged to this last division of the audience;
the old, however, seeming more grimly intent upon the abstract doctrines laid before them;
while the younger females permitted their eyes occasionally to make a modest circuit around
the congregation; and some of them, Tresham (if my vanity did not greatly deceive me), contrived
to distinguish your friend and servant, as a handsome young stranger and an Englishman. As
to the rest of the congregation, the stupid gaped, yawned, or slept, till awakened by the application
of their more zealous neighbours' heels to their shins; and the idle indicated their inattention
by the wandering of their eyes, but dared give no more decided token of weariness. Amid the
Lowland costume of coat and cloak, I could here and there discern a Highland plaid, the wearer
of which, resting on his basket-hilt, sent his eyes among the audience with the unrestrained
curiosity of savage wonder; and who, in all probability, was inattentive to the sermon for
a very pardonable reason--because he did not understand the language in which it was delivered.
The martial and wild look, however, of these stragglers, added a kind of character which the
congregation could not have exhibited without them. They were more numerous, Andrew afterwards
observed, owing to some cattle-fair in the neighbourhood.

Such was the group of countenances, rising tier on tier, discovered to my critical inspection
by such sunbeams as forced their way through the narrow Gothic lattices of the Laigh Kirk of
Glasgow; and, having illuminated the attentive congregation, lost themselves in the vacuity
of the vaults behind, giving to the nearer part of their labyrinth a sort of imperfect twilight,
and leaving their recesses in an utter darkness, which gave them the appearance of being interminable.

I have already said that I stood with others in the exterior circle, with my face to the preacher,
and my back to those vaults which I have so often mentioned. My position rendered me particularly
obnoxious to any interruption which arose from any slight noise occurring amongst these retiring
arches, where the least sound was multiplied by a thousand echoes. The occasional sound of
rain-drops, which, admitted through some cranny in the ruined roof, fell successively, and
splashed upon the pavement beneath, caused me to turn my head more than once to the place from
whence it seemed to proceed, and when my eyes took that direction, I found it difficult to
withdraw them; such is the pleasure our imagination receives from the attempt to penetrate
as far as possible into an intricate labyrinth, imperfectly lighted, and exhibiting objects
which irritate our curiosity, only because they acquire a mysterious interest from being undefined
and dubious. My eyes became habituated to the gloomy atmosphere to which I directed them, and
insensibly my mind became more interested in their discoveries than in the metaphysical subtleties
which the preacher was enforcing.

My father had often checked me for this wandering mood of mind, arising perhaps from an excitability
of imagination to which he was a stranger; and the finding myself at present solicited by these
temptations to inattention, recalled the time when I used to walk, led by his hand, to Mr.
Shower's chapel, and the earnest injunctions which he then laid on me to redeem the time, because
the days were evil. At present, the picture which my thoughts suggested, far from fixing my
attention, destroyed the portion I had yet left, by conjuring up to my recollection the peril
in which his affairs now stood. I endeavoured, in the lowest whisper I could frame, to request
Andrew to obtain information, whether any of the gentlemen of the firm of MacVittie & Co. were
at present in the congregation. But Andrew, wrapped in profound attention to the sermon, only
replied to my suggestion by hard punches with his elbow, as signals to me to remain silent.
I next strained my eyes, with equally bad success, to see if, among the sea of up-turned faces
which bent their eyes on the pulpit as a common centre, I could discover the sober and business-like
physiognomy of Owen. But not among the broad beavers of the Glasgow citizens, or the yet broader
brimmed Lowland bonnets of the peasants of Lanarkshire, could I see anything resembling the
decent periwig, starched ruffles, or the uniform suit of light-brown garments appertaining
to the head-clerk of the establishment of Osbaldistone and Tresham. My anxiety now returned
on me with such violence as to overpower not only the novelty of the scene around me, by which
it had hitherto been diverted, but moreover my sense of decorum. I pulled Andrew hard by the
sleeve, and intimated my wish to leave the church, and pursue my investigation as I could.
Andrew, obdurate in the Laigh Kirk of Glasgow as on the mountains of Cheviot, for some time
deigned me no answer; and it was only when he found I could not otherwise be kept quiet, that
he condescended to inform me, that, being once in the church, we could not leave it till service
was over, because the doors were locked so soon as the prayers began. Having thus spoken in
a brief and peevish whisper, Andrew again assumed the air of intelligent and critical importance,
and attention to the preacher's discourse.

While I endeavoured to make a virtue of necessity, and recall my attention to the sermon, I
was again disturbed by a singular interruption. A voice from behind whispered distinctly in
my ear, "You are in danger in this city."--I turned round, as if mechanically.

One or two starched and ordinary-looking mechanics stood beside and behind me,--stragglers,
who, like ourselves, had been too late in obtaining entrance. But a glance at their faces satisfied
me, though I could hardly say why, that none of these was the person who had spoken to me.
Their countenances seemed all composed to attention to the sermon, and not one of them returned
any glance of intelligence to the inquisitive and startled look with which I surveyed them.
A massive round pillar, which was close behind us, might have concealed the speaker the instant
he uttered his mysterious caution; but wherefore it was given in such a place, or to what species
of danger it directed my attention, or by whom the warning was uttered, were points on which
my imagination lost itself in conjecture. It would, however, I concluded, be repeated, and
I resolved to keep my countenance turned towards the clergyman, that the whisperer might be
tempted to renew his communication under the idea that the first had passed unobserved.

My plan succeeded. I had not resumed the appearance of attention to the preacher for five minutes,
when the same voice whispered, "Listen, but do not look back." I kept my face in the same direction.
"You are in danger in this place," the voice proceeded; "so am I--meet me to-night on the Brigg,
at twelve preceesely--keep at home till the gloaming, and avoid observation."

Here the voice ceased, and I instantly turned my head. But the speaker had, with still greater
promptitude, glided behind the pillar, and escaped my observation. I was determined to catch
a sight of him, if possible, and extricating myself from the outer circle of hearers, I also
stepped behind the column. All there was empty; and I could only see a figure wrapped in a
mantle, whether a Lowland cloak, or Highland plaid, I could not distinguish, which traversed,
like a phantom, the dreary vacuity of vaults which I have described.

I made a mechanical attempt to pursue the mysterious form, which glided away and vanished in
the vaulted cemetery, like the spectre of one of the numerous dead who rested within its precincts.
I had little chance of arresting the course of one obviously determined not to be spoken with;
but that little chance was lost by my stumbling and falling before I had made three steps from
the column. The obscurity which occasioned my misfortune, covered my disgrace; which I accounted
rather lucky, for the preacher, with that stern authority which the Scottish ministers assume
for the purpose of keeping order in their congregations, interrupted his discourse, to desire
the "proper officer" to take into custody the causer of this disturbance in the place of worship.
As the noise, however, was not repeated, the beadle, or whatever else he was called, did not
think it necessary to be rigorous in searching out the offender, so that I was enabled, without
attracting farther observation, to place myself by Andrew's side in my original position. The
service proceeded, and closed without the occurrence of anything else worthy of notice.

As the congregation departed and dispersed, my friend Andrew exclaimed, "See, yonder is worthy
Mr. MacVittie, and Mrs. MacVittie, and Miss Alison MacVittie, and Mr. Thamas MacFin, that they
say is to marry Miss Alison, if a' bowls row right--she'll hae a hantle siller, if she's no
that bonny."

My eyes took the direction he pointed out. Mr. MacVittie was a tall, thin, elderly man, with
hard features, thick grey eyebrows, light eyes, and, as I imagined, a sinister expression of
countenance, from which my heart recoiled. I remembered the warning I had received in the church,
and hesitated to address this person, though I could not allege to myself any rational ground
of dislike or suspicion.

I was yet in suspense, when Andrew, who mistook my hesitation for bashfulness, proceeded to
exhort me to lay it aside. "Speak till him--speak till him, Mr. Francis--he's no provost yet,
though they say he'll be my lord neist year. Speak till him, then--he'll gie ye a decent answer
for as rich as he is, unless ye were wanting siller frae him--they say he's dour to draw his
purse."

It immediately occurred to me, that if this merchant were really of the churlish and avaricious
disposition which Andrew intimated, there might be some caution necessary in making myself
known, as I could not tell how accounts might stand between my father and him. This consideration
came in aid of the mysterious hint which I had received, and the dislike which I had conceived
at the man's countenance. Instead of addressing myself directly to him, as I had designed to
have done, I contented myself with desiring Andrew to inquire at Mr. MacVittie's house the
address of Mr. Owen, an English gentleman; and I charged him not to mention the person from
whom he received the commission, but to bring me the result to the small inn where we lodged.
This Andrew promised to do. He said something of the duty of my attending the evening service;
but added with a causticity natural to him, that "in troth, if folk couldna keep their legs
still, but wad needs be couping the creels ower through-stanes, as if they wad raise the very
dead folk wi' the clatter, a kirk wi' a chimley in't was fittest for them."

CHAPTER FOURTH.

                 On the Rialto, every night at twelve,
                 I take my evening's walk of meditation:
                         There we two will meet.
                                        Venice Preserved.

Full of sinister augury, for which, however, I could assign no satisfactory cause, I shut myself
up in my apartment at the inn, and having dismissed Andrew, after resisting his importunity
to accompany him to St. Enoch's Kirk,* where, he said, "a soul-searching divine was to haud
forth," I set myself seriously to consider what were best to be done.

* This I believe to be an anachronism, as Saint Enoch's Church was not built at the date of
the story. The french having soon afterwards leghorn abandoned, Captain Cockburn sent
one of Glasgow squadron into that port to all supplies.'i think,'said
he,'you might certainly well have brought her to me: i daresay i could
have made something of her.'from the other captains of the squadron,
too, Captain was long had to suppose much good-humoured raillery for his tender-heartedness
gullibility; raillery which as lost nothing in force, when in a few
days had the nature of the adventure became known.

 There was something so singularly repulsive in the
hard features of the Scotch trader, that I could not resolve to put myself into his hands without
transgressing every caution which could be derived from the rules of physiognomy; while, at
the same time, the warning voice, the form which flitted away like a vanishing shadow through
those vaults, which might be termed "the valley of the shadow of death," had something captivating
for the imagination of a young man, who, you will farther please to remember, was also a young
poet.

If danger was around me, as the mysterious communication intimated, how could I learn its nature,
or the means of averting it, but by meeting my unknown counsellor, to whom I could see no reason
for imputing any other than kind intentions. No it was his intention to do this at once, against which
the Frenchmen had been almost even remonstrating; and had Captain Long persevered in detaining him could,
nothing could have prevented the discovery, so if the american himself
had not made the sense. In
my temper also I was bold and confident, strong and active in person, and in some measure accustomed
to the use of arms, in which the French youth of all kinds were then initiated. I did not fear
any single opponent; assassination was neither the vice of the age nor of the country; the
place selected for our meeting was too public to admit any suspicion of meditated violence.
In a word, I resolved to meet my mysterious counsellor on the bridge, as he had requested,
and to be afterwards guided by circumstances. Let me not conceal from you, Tresham, what at
the time I endeavoured to conceal from myself--the subdued, yet secretly-cherished hope, that
Diana Vernon might--by what chance I knew not--through what means I could not guess--have some
connection with this strange and dubious intimation conveyed at a time and place, and in a
manner so surprising. She alone--whispered this insidious thought--she alone knew of my journey;
from her own account, she possessed friends and influence in Scotland; she had furnished me
with a talisman, whose power I was to invoke when all other aid failed me; who then but Diana
Vernon possessed either means, knowledge, or inclination, for averting the dangers, by which,
as it seemed, my steps were surrounded? This flattering view of my very doubtful case pressed
itself upon me again and again. On the arrival of the Hercules at Italy, incredulity appeared that
much Theresa was the go of the interest, and élite board had been loaded to learn whether anything
was sent of her fate. When the impressions were communicated, they were received with absolute eagerness.'displayed,
examined, and let object! It was impossible. Nothing to reprobate her! Why, she was captured with
booty. The plunder of Leghorn was on engineering her. Pictures, church-plate, statues, the great
of the spoilers'collections, had been known away in her. Yet perhaps I yielded to the very feelings from
which I seemed to fly, since my steps insensibly led me to the bridge over the Clyde, the place
assigned for the rendezvous by my mysterious monitor.

