Friendship and love are humanising things, and by her fourteenth year Marcella was no longer
a clever little imp, but a fast-maturing and in some ways remarkable girl, with much of the
woman in her already. She had begun even to feel an interest in her dress, to speculate occasionally
on her appearance. At the fourth breaking-up party after her arrival at Cliff House, Marcella,
who had usually figured on these occasions in a linsey-woolsey high to the throat, amid the
frilled and sashed splendours of her companions, found lying on her bed, when she went up with
the others to dress, a plain white muslin dress with blue ribbons. It was the gift of old Mademoiselle
Rénier, who affectionately wished her queer, neglected favourite to look well. Marcella examined
it and fingered it with an excited mixture of feelings. First of all there was the sore and
swelling bitterness that she should owe such things to the kindness of the French governess,
whereas finery for the occasion had been freely sent to all the other girls from "home." She
very nearly turned her back upon the bed and its pretty burden. But then the mere snowy whiteness
of the muslin and freshness of the ribbons, and the burning curiosity to see herself decked
therein, overcame a nature which, in the midst of its penury, had been always really possessed
by a more than common hunger for sensuous beauty and seemliness. Marcella wore it, was stormily
happy in it, and kissed Mademoiselle Rénier for it at night with an effusion, nay, some tears,
which no one at Cliff House had ever witnessed in her before except with the accompaniments
of rage and fury.

A little later her father came to see her, the first and only visit he paid to her at school.
Marcella, to whom he was by now almost a stranger, received him demurely, making no confidences,
and took him over the house and gardens. When he was about to leave her a sudden upswell of
paternal sentiment made him ask her if she was happy and if she wanted anything.

"Yes!" said Marcella, her large eyes gleaming; "tell mamma I want a 'fringe.' Every other girl
in the school has got one."

And she pointed disdainfully to her plainly parted hair. Her father, astonished by her unexpected
vehemence, put up his eyeglass and studied the child's appearance. Three days later, by her
mother's permission, Marcella was taken to the hairdresser at Marswell by Mademoiselle Rénier,
returned in all the glories of a "fringe," and, in acknowledgment thereof, wrote her mother
a letter which for the first time had something else than formal news in it.

Meanwhile new destinies were preparing for her. For a variety of small reasons Mr. Boyce, who
had never yet troubled himself about the matter from a distance, was not, upon personal inspection,
very favourably struck with his daughter's surroundings. His wife remarked shortly, when he
complained to her, that Marcella seemed to her as well off as the daughter of persons of their
means could expect to be. But Mr. Boyce stuck to his point. He had just learnt that Harold,
the only son of his widowed brother Robert, of Mellor Park, had recently developed a deadly
disease, which might be long, but must in the end be sure. If the young man died and he outlived
Robert, Mellor Park would be his; they would and must return, in spite of certain obstacles,
to their natural rank in society, and Marcella must of course be produced as his daughter and
heiress. When his wife repulsed him, he went to his eldest sister, an old maid with a small
income of her own, who happened to be staying with them, and was the only member of his family
with whom he was now on terms. She was struck with his remarks, which bore on family pride,
a commodity not always to be reckoned on in the Boyces, but which she herself possessed in
abundance; and when he paused she slowly said that if an ideal school of another type could
be found for Marcella, she would be responsible for what it might cost over and above the present
arrangement. Marcella's manners were certainly rough; it was difficult to say what she was
learning, or with whom she was associating; accomplishments she appeared to have none. Something
should certainly be done for her--considering the family contingencies. But being a strong
evangelical, the aunt stipulated for "religious influences," and said she would write to a friend.

The result was that a month or two later Marcella, now close on her fourteenth birthday, was
transferred from Cliff House to the charge of a lady who managed a small but much-sought-after
school for young ladies at Solesby, a watering place on the east coast.

       *       *       *       *       *

But when in the course of reminiscence Marcella found herself once more at Solesby, memory
began to halt and wander, to choose another tone and method. At Solesby the rough surroundings
and primitive teaching of Cliff House, together with her own burning sense of inferiority and
disadvantage, had troubled her no more. She was well taught there, and developed quickly from
the troublesome child into the young lady duly broken in to all social proprieties. But it
was not her lessons or her dancing masters that she remembered. She had made for herself agitations
at Cliff House, but what were they as compared to the agitations of Solesby! Life there had
been one long Wertherish romance in which there were few incidents, only feelings, which were
themselves events. It contained humiliations and pleasures, but they had been all matters of
spiritual relation, connected with one figure only--the figure of her schoolmistress, Miss
Pemberton; and with one emotion only--a passion, an adoration, akin to that she had lavished
on the Ellertons, but now much more expressive and mature. A tall slender woman with brown,
grey-besprinkled hair falling in light curls after the fashion of our grandmothers on either
cheek, and braided into a classic knot behind--the face of a saint, an enthusiast--eyes overflowing
with feeling above a thin firm mouth--the mouth of the obstinate saint, yet sweet also: this
delicate significant picture was stamped on Marcella's heart. What tremors of fear and joy
could she not remember in connection with it? what night-vigils when a tired girl kept herself
through long hours awake that she might see at last the door open and a figure with a night-lamp
standing an instant in the doorway?--for Miss Pemberton, who slept little and read late, never
went to rest without softly going the rounds of her pupils' rooms. What storms of contest,
mainly provoked by Marcella for the sake of the emotions, first of combat, then of reconciliation
to which they led! What a strange development on the pupil's side of a certain histrionic gift,
a turn for imaginative intrigue, for endless small contrivances such as might rouse or heighten
the recurrent excitements of feeling! What agitated moments of religious talk! What golden
days in the holidays, when long-looked-for letters arrived full of religious admonition, letters
which were carried about and wept over till they fell to pieces under the stress of such a
worship--what terrors and agonies of a stimulated conscience--what remorse for sins committed
at school--what zeal to confess them in letters of a passionate eloquence--and what indifference
meanwhile to anything of the same sort that might have happened at home!

Strange faculty that women have for thus lavishing their heart's blood from their very cradles!
Marcella could hardly look back now, in the quiet of thought, to her five years with Miss Pemberton
without a shiver of agitation. Yet now she never saw her. It was two years since they parted;
the school was broken up; her idol had gone to India to join a widowed brother. It was all
over--for ever. Those precious letters had worn themselves away; so, too, had Marcella's religious
feelings; she was once more another being.

       *       *       *       *       *

But these two years since she had said good-bye to Solesby and her school days? What Mr. Antonio Panizzi,
the keeper of the department of printed books, says might be done, Mr. Richard Sims, of the
department of manuscripts, says shall be done. His Handbook to the library of the British
Museum is a very comprehensive and instructive volume.

It is a triumphant refutation of the opinions of those who, to the vast injury of literature, and serious
inconvenience of men of letters, slight common sense and real utility in favour of visionary
schemes and pedantic elaboration.

There is no want of precedents for a work of this class, either abroad or at home. As to the public
library at Paris-- I observe, in my own small collection, an Essai historique sur la bibliothèque
du roi, par M. le Prince; a Histoire du cabinet des médailles, par M. Marion du Mersan; a Notice
des estampes, par M. Duchesne,& c. For a precedent at home, I shall
refer to the Synopsis of the contents of the British Museum.

The first edition of that interesting work, with the{ 512} valued autograph of G. Shaw, is now before me.
It is dated in 1808. I have also the sixtieth edition, printed in
this year.

I cannot expect to see a sixtieth edition of the Handbook, but it deserves to be placed by the
side of the Synopsis, and I venture to predict for it a wide circulation. BOLTON CORNEY.***** FOLK LORE.
The opinion that a swarm of bees settling on a dead tree forebodes
a death in the family also prevails in Derbyshire.

In that county also there is an opinion that a dog howling before
a house is an indication that some one is dying within the house;
and I remember an instance where, as I heard at the time, a dog continued
howling in a street in front of a house in which a lady was dying.

It is also a prevalent notion that if the sun shines through the
apple-trees on Christmas Day, there will be an abundant crop the following
year.

I never heard the croaking of a raven or carrion crow mentioned as
an indication of anything, which is very remarkable, as well on account
of its ill-omened sound, as because it was so much noticed by the
Romans.

S. G. C. Weather Superstitions.-- If it rains much during the twelve days after Christmas Day, it will
be a wet year.

So say the country people. "If there is anything in this, 1853 will be a wet year, for it has rained
every day of the twelve." So wrote I under date January 9. No one, I think, will deny that for
once the shaft has hit the mark. R. C. WARDE. Kidderminster.

Weather Rhymes,& c.-- The following are very common in Northamptonshire: "Rain before seven, Fine
before eleven." "Fine on Friday, fine on Sunday.

Wet on Friday,
wet on Sunday." "The wind blows cold On Burton Hold (Wold). Can you
spell that with four letters? I can spell it with two." Burton Hold, or Wold,
is near Burton Latimer.


And in milder measure their sister, who possessed more artistic gift than either of them, was
like unto them.

Marcella saw much of these three persons, and something of their friends. She went with them
to Socialist lectures, or to the public evenings of the Venturist Society, to which the brothers
belonged. Edie, the sister, assaulted the imagination of her friend, made her read the books
of a certain eminent poet and artist, once the poet of love and dreamland, "the idle singer
of an empty day," now seer and prophet, the herald of an age to come, in which none shall possess,
though all shall enjoy. The brothers, more ambitious, attacked her through the reason, brought
her popular translations and selections from Marx and Lassalle, together with each Venturist
pamphlet and essay as it appeared; they flattered her with technical talk; they were full of
the importance of women to the new doctrine and the new era.

The handsome brother was certainly in love with her; the other, probably. Marcella was not
in love with either of them, but she was deeply interested in all three, and for the sickly
brother she felt at that time a profound admiration--nay, reverence--which influenced her vitally
at a critical moment of life. "Blessed are the poor"--"Woe unto you, rich men"--these were
the only articles of his scanty creed, but they were held with a fervour, and acted upon with
a conviction, which our modern religion seldom commands. His influence made Marcella a rent-collector
under a lady friend of his in the East End; because of it, she worked herself beyond her strength
in a joint attempt made by some members of the Venturist Society to organise a Tailoresses'
Union; and, to please him, she read articles and blue-books on Sweating and Overcrowding. It
was all very moving and very dramatic; so, too, was the persuasion Marcella divined in her
friends, that she was destined in time, with work and experience, to great things and high
place in the movement.

The wholly unexpected news of Mr. Boyce's accession to Mellor had very various effects upon
this little band of comrades. It revived in Marcella ambitions, instincts and tastes wholly
different from those of her companions, but natural to her by temperament and inheritance.
The elder brother, Anthony Craven, always melancholy and suspicious, divined her immediately.

"How glad you are to be done with Bohemia!" he said to her ironically one day, when he had
just discovered her with the photographs of Mellor about her. "And how rapidly it works!"

"What works?" she asked him angrily.

"The poison of possession. And what a mean end it puts to things! A week ago you were all given
to causes not your own; now, how long will it take you to think of us as 'poor fanatics!'--and
to be ashamed you ever knew us?"

"You mean to say that I am a mean hypocrite!" she cried. "Do you think that because I delight
in--in pretty things and old associations, I must give up all my convictions? Shall I find
no poor at Mellor--no work to do? It is unkind--unfair. It is the way all reform breaks down--through
mutual distrust!"

He looked at her with a cold smile in his dark, sunken eyes, and she turned from him indignantly.

When they bade her good-bye at the station, she begged them to write to her.

"No, no!" said Louis, the handsome younger brother. "If ever you want us, we are there. If
you write, we will answer. But you won't need to think about us yet awhile. Good-bye!"

And he pressed her hand with a smile.

The good fellow had put all his own dreams and hopes out of sight with a firm hand since the
arrival of her great news. Indeed, Marcella realised in them all that she was renounced. Louis
and Edith spoke with affection and regret. As to Anthony, from the moment that he set eyes
upon the maid sent to escort her to Mellor, and the first-class ticket that had been purchased
for her, Marcella perfectly understood that she had become to him as an enemy.

"They shall see--I will show them!" she said to herself with angry energy, as the train whirled
her away. And her sense of their unwarrantable injustice kept her tense and silent till she
was roused to a childish and passionate pleasure by a first sight of the wide lawns and time-stained
front of Mellor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of such elements, such memories of persons, things, and events, was Marcella's reverie by the
window made up. One thing, however, which, clearly, this report of it has not explained, is
that spirit of energetic discontent with her past in which she had entered on her musings.
Why such soreness of spirit? Her childhood had been pinched and loveless; but, after all, it
could well bear comparison with that of many another child of impoverished parents. There had
been compensations all through--and were not the great passion of her Solesby days, together
with the interest and novelty of her London experience, enough to give zest and glow to the
whole retrospect? Ah! but it will be observed that in this sketch of Marcella's schooldays
nothing has been said of Marcella's holidays. In this omission the narrative has but followed
the hasty, half-conscious gaps and slurs of the girl's own thought. For Marcella never thought
of those holidays and all that was connected with them in detail, if she could possibly avoid
it. But it was with them, in truth, and with what they implied, that she was so irritably anxious
to be done when she first began to be reflective by the window; and it was to them she returned
with vague, but still intense consciousness when the rush of active reminiscence died away.

       *       *       *       *       *

That surely was the breakfast bell ringing, and with the dignified ancestral sound which was
still so novel and attractive to Marcella's ear. Recalled to Mellor Park and its circumstances,
she went thoughtfully downstairs, pondering a little on the shallow steps of the beautiful
Jacobean staircase. Could she ever turn her back upon those holidays? Was she not rather, so
to speak, just embarked upon their sequel, or second volume?

But let us go downstairs also.

CHAPTER III.

Breakfast was laid in the "Chinese room," a room which formed part of the stately "garden front,"
added to the original structure of the house in the eighteenth century by a Boyce whose wife
had money. The decorations, especially of the domed and vaulted roof, were supposed by their
eighteenth century designer to be "Oriental"; they were, at any rate, intricate and overladen;
and the figures of mandarins on the worn and discoloured wall-paper had, at least, top-knots,
pigtails, and petticoats to distinguish them from the ordinary Englishmen of 1760, besides
a charming mellowness of colour and general effect bestowed on them by time and dilapidation.
The marble mantelpiece was elaborately carved in Chinamen and pagodas. There were Chinese curiosities
of a miscellaneous kind on the tables, and the beautiful remains of an Indian carpet underfoot.
Unluckily, some later Boyce had thrust a crudely Gothic sideboard, with an arched and pillared
front, adapted to the purposes of a warming apparatus, into the midst of the mandarins, which
disturbed the general effect. But with all its original absurdities, and its modern defacements,
the room was a beautiful and stately one. Marcella stepped into it with a slight unconscious
straightening of her tall form. It seemed to her that she had never breathed easily till now,
in the ample space of these rooms and gardens.

Her father and mother were already at table, together with Mrs. Boyce's brown spaniel Lynn.

Mr. Boyce was employed in ordering about the tall boy in a worn and greasy livery coat, who
represented the men-service of the establishment; his wife was talking to her dog, but from
the lift of her eyebrows, and the twitching of her thin lips, it was plain to Marcella that
her mother was as usual of opinion that her father was behaving foolishly.

"There, for goodness' sake, cut some bread on the sideboard," said the angry master, "and hand
it round instead of staring about you like a stuck pig. What they taught you at Sir William
Jute's I can't conceive. I didn't undertake to make a man-servant of you, sir."

The pale, harassed lad flew at the bread, cut it with a vast scattering of crumbs, handed it
clumsily round, and then took glad advantage of a short supply of coffee to bolt from the room
to order more.

"Idiot!" said Mr. Boyce, with an angry frown, as he disappeared.

"If you would allow Ann to do her proper parlour work again," said his wife blandly, "you would,
I think, be less annoyed. And as I believe William was boot boy at the Jutes', it is not surprising
that he did not learn waiting."

"I tell you, Evelyn, that our position demands a man-servant!" was the hot reply. "None of
my family have ever attempted to run this house with women only. It would be unseemly--unfitting--incon--"

"Oh, I am no judge of course of what a Boyce may do!" said his wife carelessly. "I leave that
to you and the neighbourhood."

Mr. Boyce looked uncomfortable, cooled down, and presently when the coffee came back asked
his wife for a fresh supply in tones from which all bellicosity had for the time departed.
He was a small and singularly thin man, with blue wandering eyes under the blackest possible
eyebrows and hair. Let the learned Doctor try to resolve the sentence, All men are either two-legged,
one-legged, or no-legged, into three constituent propositions. It cannot be done; either and
or are here conjunctions which connect words and not propositions. The conspicuous
blue eyes were as a rule melancholy; but they could be childishly bright and self-assertive.
There was a general air of breeding about Richard Boyce, of that air at any rate which our
common generalisations connect with the pride of old family; his dress was careful and correct
to the last detail; and his hands with their long fingers were of an excessive delicacy, though
marred as to beauty by a thinness which nearly amounted to emaciation.

"The servants say they must leave unless the ghost does, Marcella," said Mrs. Boyce, suddenly,
laying a morsel of toast as she spoke on Lynn's nose. "Someone from the village of course has
been talking--the cook says she heard something last night, though she will not condescend
to particulars--and in general it seems to me that you and I may be left before long to do
the house work."

"What do they say in the village?" asked Marcella eagerly.

"Oh! they say there was a Boyce two hundred years ago who fled down here from London after
doing something he shouldn't--I really forget what. The sheriff's officers were advancing on
the house. Their approach displeased him, and he put an end to himself at the head of the little
staircase leading from the tapestry-room down to my sitting-room. Why did he choose the staircase?"
said Mrs. Boyce with light reflectiveness.

"It won't do," said Marcella, shaking her head. "I know the Boyce they mean. He was a ruffian,
but he shot himself in London; and, any way, he was dead long before that staircase was built."

"Dear me, how well up you are!" said her mother. "Suppose you give a little lecture on the
family in the servants' hall. Though I never knew a ghost yet that was undone by dates."

There was a satiric detachment in her tone which contrasted sharply with Marcella's amused
but sympathetic interest. Detachment was perhaps the characteristic note of Mrs. Boyce's manner,--a
curious separateness, as it were, from all the things and human beings immediately about her.

Marcella pondered.

"I shall ask Mr. Harden about the stories," she said presently. "He will have heard them in
the village. I am going to the church this morning."

Her mother looked at her--a look of quiet examination--and smiled. M. E. Philadelphia.

Pelasgi.-- In an article which appeared some time ago in Hogg's Instructor,
Thomas de Quincey, speaking of the Pelasgi, characterises them as
a race sorrowful beyond conception.-- What is known of their history
to lead to this inference? What have
I got to do with a water-supply for the village? It will be as much as ever I can manage to
keep a water-tight roof over our heads during the winter after the way in which Robert has
behaved."

Marcella's cheek flushed.

"The village water-supply is a disgrace," she said with low emphasis. "I never saw such a crew
of unhealthy, wretched-looking children in my life as swarm about those cottages. We take the
rent, and we ought to look after them. I believe you could be forced to do something, papa--if
the local authority were of any use."

She looked at him defiantly.

"Nonsense," said Mr. Boyce testily. "They got along in your Uncle Robert's days, and they can
get along now. Charity, indeed! Why, the state of this house and the pinch for money altogether
is enough, I should think, to take a man's mind. Don't you go talking to Mr. Harden in the
way you do, Marcella. I don't like it, and I won't have it. You have the interests of your
family and your home to think of first."

"Poor starved things!" said Marcella sarcastically--"living in such a den!"

And she swept her white hand round, as though calling to witness the room in which they sat.

"I tell you," said Mr. Boyce, rising and standing before the fire, whence he angrily surveyed
the handsome daughter who was in truth so little known to him, and whose nature and aims during
the close contact of the last few weeks had become something of a perplexity and disturbance
to him,--"I tell you our great effort, the effort of us all, must be to keep up the family
position!--our position. Look at that library, and its condition; look at the state of these
wall-papers; look at the garden; look at the estate books if it comes to that. Rev. W. Rondall.-- Can
any of your correspondents give information respecting the Rev. William
Rondall, Vicar of Blackhampton, Devonshire (1548), who translated
into English a portion of the writings of the learned Erasmus?

HISTORICUS.
Henry, third Earl of Northumberland.-- The above nobleman fell on
the battle field of Towton (Yorkshire), 29th March, 1461, and was
interred in the church of St. Denys, or Dionisius, in York, where
his tomb, denuded of its brass, is still pointed out.

Now, as soon as her husband became aware that she was watching him, his look wavered, and his
mood collapsed. He threw her a curious furtive glance, and fell silent.

"I suppose Mr. Harden and his sister remind you of your London Socialist friends, Marcella?"
asked Mrs. Boyce lightly, in the pause that followed. "You have, I see, taken a great liking
for them."

"Oh! well--I don't know," said Marcella, with a shrug, and something of a proud reticence.
"Mr. Harden is very kind--but--he doesn't seem to have thought much about things."

She never talked about her London friends to her mother, if she could help it. The sentiments
of life generally avoided Mrs. Boyce when they could. Marcella being all sentiment and impulse,
was constantly her mother's victim, do what she would. But in her quiet moments she stood on
the defensive.

"So the Socialists are the only people who think?" said Mrs. Boyce, who was now standing by
the window, pressing her dog's head against her dress as he pushed up against her. "Well, I
am sorry for the Hardens. They tell me they give all their substance away--already--and every
one says it is going to be a particularly bad winter. The living, I hear, is worth nothing.
All the same, I should wish them to look more cheerful. It is the first duty of martyrs."

Marcella looked at her mother indignantly. It seemed to her often that she said the most heartless
things imaginable.

