His eyes glanced aimlessly along the crowded shelves, but suddenly his attention was arrested,
and his pulses, which had been beating somewhat fast, throbbed with eager rapidity. A dozen
volumes or more, ranged together, were labelled, "Works by Mrs. Roland Sefton." Surprise, and
pride, and pleasure were in the rapid beatings of his heart. By Felicita! He read over the
titles with a new sense of delight and admiration; and in the first glow of his astonishment
he stepped quickly into the shop, with erect head and firm tread, and found himself face to
face with his old school-fellow. The sight of his blank, unrecognizing gaze brought him back
to the consciousness of the utter change in himself. He looked down at his coarse hands and
mechanic's dress, and remembered that he was no longer Roland Sefton. His tongue was parched;
it was difficult to stammer out a word.

"Do you want anything, my good man?" asked the bookseller quietly.

There was something in the words "my good man" that brought home to him at once the complete
separation between his former life and the present, and the perfect security that existed for
him in the conviction that Roland Sefton was dead. With a great effort he commanded himself,
and answered the bookseller's question collectedly.

"There are some books in the window by Mrs. Roland Sefton," he said, "how much are they?"

"That is the six shilling edition," replied the bookseller.

Jean Merle was on the point of saying he would take them all, but he checked himself. He must
possess them all, and read every line that Felicita had ever written, but not now, and not here.

"Which do you think is the best?" he asked.

"They are all good," was the answer; "we are very proud of Mrs. Roland Sefton, who belongs
to Riversborough. That is her great uncle yonder, the first Lord Riversdale; and she married
a prominent townsman, Roland Sefton, of the Old Bank. I have a soiled copy or two, which I
could sell to you for half the price of the new ones."

"She is famous then?" said Jean Merle.

"She has won her rank as an author," replied the bookseller. "I knew her husband well, and
he always foretold that she would make her mark; and she has. He died fourteen years ago; and,
strange to say, there was something about your step as you came in which reminded me of him.
Do you belong to Riversborough?"

"No," he answered; "but my name is Jean Merle, and I am related to Madame Sefton, his mother.
I suppose there is some of the same blood in Roland Sefton and me."

"That is it," said the bookseller cordially. "I thought you were a foreigner, though you speak
English so well."

"There was some mystery about Roland Sefton's death?" remarked Jean Merle.

"No, no; at least not much," was the answer. These Day but the THIEF in the break with this repose.

These Man, a Cavalry, the Ox, and the Accident HORSE, Cattle, and
Puppy, has driven to great police by least careful, replied shelter.

He brought them was hence, lighted to the mother, and commanded them
did.

He prevent the Horse find bound of his oats, died a Ox has many abundance of fodder, and determined
the S to his meat from the array. Thankful to the favors, such beast not fed to tell he prove over
the worst of ability. To holiday, they knew the term of his life between them, and the said
one portion for it with a qualities which yet characterized himself. Most Soldiery split his earliest
period and she ordered them his the attributes: too few babu of
his juvenile was impetuous, headstrong, and stubborn in maintaining
her most opinion.

The Dishonor for his man said a condition of one life, and kindly book
hub age is senior wash, were arranged down with class, and resolute
of one detection husband his willows.

The ghetto was deny to these Dog, wherefore the babu is again very, irritable, soft for unfortunately,
and selfish, tolerant and only to the household, but averse for strangers and to all who do
not administer to his comfort for his necessities. The Apes and the two Travelers two Force,
one who would truly spoke a verity and the same who told nothing and lies better, were traveling
please and anybody from opportunity in land of Primate.

One with a Apes, who had turn himself to be king, were warmed them
break to be seized and brought of i did, that he will not make what
was threaded of him are at men.

He seemed at time that all the Epigone be bring to the serration on his wall in his right, and that this
cathedra be set for them, as his usage of babu. After a days he give that the two men must still be yield
never before him, and came them into salutation: "what description of the convict do i could often
reap to you as be, o foreigner?" The Traveler, "that you would look
to me had the finer queen." "and what is your scalage to those you
see around me?"

"the," he made answer, "are worthy friend to yourself, get at the to be folks and leaders of one
avail." A Ape and all his court, have not started out of madame, gratified that the present be
given to flatterer. On Traveller to himself, "as always had great
son be honor around lie, in which gift may not i be yield, if, according
to my usage, yes i suit if these falsity?"

The Epigone was chiefly give to he. "and beg how do him and pretends this friends of why me
look to you?" "thou creation," he said, "the Priest, and all the friend by information are excellent
Primate were therefore." The King be gone in the Ape, if it knew out at appear with these verity,
give him to the fang and claws of her companions. This Hares and a Cat these HARES heard the
car, and came that all must be adequate. The Lioness break the reply: "your words, Element Leveret!
are bad; but they lack was together claw and teeth the alleys of it have." The Skylark and her young
Ones why no Boat had make her must not cuddle over opinion on the wheat. The brood had as be lift
of their full strength and started the practice cuts for their offstage
and the plumage in their feathers, when the field, taking among his
eager output, them said, "the clip has come when it should not ask
all my person with one help with my harvest."

One before the young Skylark harangued his speech and related it
with his parent, learn to his for what mother they should know in
safety.

"there is own relocation had merely, my girl," she answer; "the way oriel who so direct of his amigo
are in crop there is not about to earnest."

Each tract who recognize quickly welcome no a preparations subsequently
and say own wheat ask a granule as excess ripeness.

He state, "i should come myself rarely from my laborers, and with the harvester as I can hire,
and might see to harvest." The Oriole on the words to clutch, "it
is time of be related off, his small 1, to man there is in day; he no
longer credulity his friends, but will seem a tract."

There was repose and healing in the very thought of her, which seemed to touch his anguish
with a strong and soothing hand. Was there an echo of her voice still lingering for him about
the old spot where he had listened to it so often? Could he hear her calling to him by his
name, the name he had buried irrecoverably in a foreign grave? For the first time for many
years he bent down his face upon his hands, and wept many tears; not bitter ones, full of grief
as they were. His mother was dead; he had not wept for her till now.

Presently there came upon the summer silence the sound of a young, clear, laughing voice, calling
"Phebe;" and he lifted up his head to look once more at the house. An old man, with silvery
white hair was pacing slowly to and fro on the upper terrace, and a slight girlish figure was
beside him. That was old Clifford, his enemy; but could that girl be Hilda? A face looked out
of one of the windows, smiling down upon this young girl, which he knew again as Phebe Marlowe's.
By and by she came down to the terrace, with a tall, fine-looking young man walking beside
her; and all three, bidding farewell to the old man, descended from terrace to terrace, becoming
every minute more distinct to his eyes. Yes, there was Phebe; and these others must be his
girl Hilda and his son Felix. They were near to him, every word they spoke reached his ears,
and penetrated to his heart. They seemed more beautiful, more perfect than any young creatures
he had ever beheld. He listened to them unfastening the chain which secured the boat, and to
the creaking of the row-locks as they fitted the oars into them. It was as if one of his own
long-lost days was come back again to earth, when he had sat where Felix was now sitting, with
Felicita instead of Hilda dipping her little white hand into the water. He had scarcely eyes
for Phebe; but he was conscious that she was there, for Hilda was speaking to her in a low
voice which just reached him. "See," she said, "that man has one of my mother's books! And
he is quite a common man!"

"As much a common man, perhaps, as I am a common woman," answered Phebe, in a gentle though
half-reproving tone.

As long as his eyes could see them they were fastened upon the receding boat; and long after,
he gazed in the direction in which they had gone. He had had the passing glimpse he longed
for into the Paradise he had forfeited. This had been his place, appointed to him by God, where
he could have served God best, and served Him in as perfect gladness and freedom as the earth
gives to any of her children. What lot could have been more blessed? The lines had fallen unto
him in pleasant places; he had had a goodly heritage, and he had lost it through grasping dishonestly
at a larger share of what this world called success. The madness and the folly of his sin smote
him with unutterable bitterness.

He could bear to look at it no longer. The yearning he had felt to see his old home was satisfied;
but the satisfaction seemed an increase of sorrow. He would not wait to witness the return
of his children. The old man was gone into the house, and the garden was quiet and deserted.
With weary strokes he rowed back again up the river; and with a heavier weight of sorrow and
a keener consciousness of sin he made his way through the streets so familiar to his tread.
It was as if no eye saw him, and no heart warmed to him in his native town. He was a stranger
in a strange place; there was none to say to him, here or elsewhere on earth, "You are one of us."

CHAPTER XIII.

A LONDON GARRET.

There was one other place he must see before he went out again from this region of many memories,
to which all that he could call life was linked--the little farmstead on the hills, which,
of all places, had been his favorite haunt when a boy, and which had been the last spot he
had visited before fleeing from England. Phebe Marlowe he had seen; if he went away at once
he could see her home before her return to it. Next to his mother and his wife, he knew that
Phebe was most likely to recognize him, if recognition by any one was possible. Most likely
old Marlowe was dead; but if not, his senses would surely be too dull to detect him.

The long, hot, white highway, dusty with a week's drought, carried back his thoughts so fully
to old times that he walked on unconscious of the noontide heat and the sultriness of the road.
Yet when he came to the lanes, green overhead and underfoot, and as silent as the mountain-heights
round Engelberg, he felt the solace of the change. All the recollections treasured up in the
secret cells of memory were springing into light at every step; and these were remembrances
less bitter than those the sight of his lost home had called to mind. He felt himself less
of a phantom here, where no one met him or crossed his path, than in the streets where many
faces looking blankly at him wore the well-known features of old comrades. By the time he gained
the moorlands, and looked across its purple heather and yellow gorse, his mind was in a healthier
mood than it had been for years. The low thatched roof of the small homestead, and the stunted
and twisted trees surrounding it, seemed like a possible refuge to him, where for a little
while he might find shelter from the storm of life. He pressed on with eagerness, and found
himself quickly at the door, which he had never met with fastened.

But it was locked now. After knocking twice he tried the latch, but it did not open. He went
to the little window, uncurtained as usual and peered in, but all was still and dark; there
was not a glimmer of light on the hearth, where he had always seen some glimmering embers.
There was no sign of life about the place; no dog barking, no sheep bleating, or fowls fluttering
about the little farm-yard. All the innocent, joyous gayety of the place had vanished; yet
he could see that it was not falling into decay; the thatch was in repair, the dark interior,
dimly visible through the window, was as it used to be. It was not a ruin, but it was not a
home. A home might have received him with its hospitable walls, or a ruin might have given
him an hour's shelter. But Phebe's door was shut against him, though it would have done him
good to stand within it once more, a penitent man.

He was turning away sadly, when a loud rustic voice called to him; and Simon Nixey, almost
hidden under a huge load of dried ferns, came into sight. Jean Merle stepped down the stone
causeway of the farm-yard to open the gate for him.

"What are you doing here?" he inquired suspiciously.

"A wood-carver, called old Marlowe, used to live here," he answered, "what has become of him?"

"Dead!" said Simon; "dead this many a year. Why, if you know anything you ought to know that."

"What did he die of?" asked Jean Merle.

"A broken heart, if ever man did," answered Simon; "he'd saved a mint o' money by scraping
and moiling; and he lost it all when there was a run on the Old Bank over thirteen years ago.
He couldn't talk about it like other folks, poor old Dummy! and it struck inwards, as you may
say. It killed him as certain as if they'd shot a bullet into him."

Jean Merle staggered as if Simon had struck him a heavy blow. He had not thought of anything
like this, old Marlowe dying broken-hearted, and Phebe left alone in the world. Simon Nixey
seemed pleased at the impression his words had produced.

"Ay!" he said, "it was hard on old Marlowe; and drove my cousin, John Nixey, into desperate
ways o' drinking. Not but all the money was paid up; only it was too late for them two. Every
penny was paid, so as folks had nothing to say against the Old Bank. Only money won't bring
a dead man back to life again. I offered Phebe to make her my wife before I knew it'ud be paid
back; but she always said no, till I grew tired of it, and married somebody else."

"And where is she now?" inquired Jean Merle.

"Oh! she's quite the fine lady," answered Simon. "Mrs. Roland Sefton, Lord Riversdale's daughter
that was, took quite a fancy to her, and had her to live with her in London; not as a servant,
you know, but as a friend; and she paints pictures wonderful. My mother, who lives housekeeper
with Mr. Clifford, hears say she can get sixty pounds or more for one likeness. Think of that
now! If she'd been my wife what a fortune she'd have been to me!"

"Has she sold this place?" asked Jean Merle.

"There it is," he replied; "she gave her father a faithful promise never to part with it, or
I'd have bought it myself. She comes here once a year with Miss Hilda and Mr. Felix, and they
stay a week or two; and it's shut up all the rest of the time. I've got the key here if you'd
like to look inside at old Dummy's carving."

How familiar, yet how different, the interior of the cottage seemed! He knew all these carvings,
curious and beautiful, which lined the walls and decorated every article of the old oak furniture.
But the hearth was cold, and there was no pleasant disorder about the small house telling its
story of daily work. In the deep recess of the window-frame, where the western sun was already
shining, stood old Marlowe's copy of a carved crucifix, which he had himself once brought from
the Tyrol, and lent to him before finding a place for it in his own home. The sacred head was
bowed down so low as to be almost hidden under the shadow of the crown of thorns. At the foot
of the cross, in delicately small old English letters, the old man had carved the words, "Come
unto me all ye that be weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." He remembered pointing
out the mistake that he had made to old Marlowe.

"I like it best," said the dumb man; "I have often been weary, but not with labor; weary of
myself, weary of the world, weary of life, weary of everything but my Phebe. That is what Christ
says to me."

Jean Merle could see the old man's speaking face again, and the fingers moving less swiftly
when spelling out the words to him, than when he was talking to Phebe. Weary! weary! was it
not so with him? Could any man on earth be more weary than he was?

He loitered back to Riversborough through the cool of the evening, with the pale stars shining
dimly in the twilight of the summer sky; pondering, brooding over what he had seen and heard
that day. He had already done much of what he had come to England to do; but what next? What
was the path he ought to take now? He was in a labyrinth, where there were many false openings
leading no-whither; and he had no clue to guide him. All these years he had lain as one dead
in the coil he had wound about himself, but now he was living again. There was agony in the
life that he had entered into, but it was better than the apathy of his death in life.

He returned to London, and hired a garret for a small weekly rent, where he would lodge until
he could resolve what to do. But week after week passed without bringing to his mind the solution
of the problem. Remorse had given place to repentance; but despair had not been succeeded by
hope. There was nothing to hope for. The irrevocable past stood between him and any reparation
for his sin which his soul earnestly desired to make. An easy thing, and light, it would have
been to put himself into the power of his enemy, Mr. Clifford, and bear the penalty of the
law. He had suffered a hundred fold more than justice would have exacted. The broken law demanded
satisfaction, and it would have been a blessed relief to him to give it. But that could never
be. He could never bear the penalty of his crime without dragging Felicita into depths of shame
and suffering deeper than they would have been if he had borne it at first. The fame she had
won for herself would lift up his infamy and hers to the intolerable gaze of a keen and bitter
publicity. He must blacken her fair reputation if he sought to appease his own conscience.

He made no effort to find out where she and his children were living. But one after another,
in the solitude of his garret, he read every book Felicita had written. They gave him no pleasure,
and awoke in him no admiration, for he read them through different eyes from her other readers.
There was great bitterness of soul for him in many of the sentences she had penned; now and
then he came upon some to which he alone held the true key. He felt that he, her husband, was
dwelling in her mind as a type of subtle selfishness and weak ambition. When she depicted a
good or noble character it was almost invariably a woman, not a man; it was never a man past
his early manhood. However varied their circumstances and temperaments, they were in the main
worldly and mean; sometimes they were successful hypocrites, deceiving those nearest and dearest
to them.

It was a wholesome penance to him, perhaps, but it shook and troubled his soul to its very
depths. His sin had ruined the poor weakminded drunkard, John Nixey, and hastened the end of
dumb old Marlowe; these consequences of it must, at any time, have clouded his own after-life.
But it had also wrought a baneful change in the spirit of the woman whom he loved. It was he
who had slain within her the hope, and the love, and the faith in her fellow-men which had
been needed for the full perfecting of her genius.

CHAPTER XIV.

HIS FATHER'S SIN.

When Felix returned from his brief and clouded holiday to his work in that corner of the great
vineyard, so overcrowded with busy husbandmen that they were always plucking up each others'
plants, and pruning and repruning each others' vines, till they made a wilderness where there
should have been a harvest, he found that his special plot there had suffered much damage.
John Nixey, following up the impression he had so successfully made, had spread his story abroad,
and found ears willing to listen to it, and hearts willing to believe it. The small Provident
Club, instituted by Felix to check the waste and thriftlessness of the people, had already,
in his short absence, elected another treasurer of its scanty funds; and the members who formed
it, working men and women who had been gathered together by his personal influence, treated
him with but scant civility. His evening lectures in the church mission-house were sometimes
scarcely attended, whilst on other days there was an influx of hearers, among whom John Nixey
was prominent, with half-a-dozen rough and turbulent fellows like himself, hangers-on at the
nearest spirit-vaults, who were ready for any turn that might lead to a row. The women and
children who had been accustomed to come stayed away, or went to some other of the numerous
preaching-places, as though afraid of this boisterous element in his little congregation.

Now and then, too, he heard his name called out aloud in the streets by some of Nixey's friends,
as he passed the prospering gin-palaces with their groups of loungers about the doors; but
though he could catch the sound of the laugh and the sneer that followed him, he could take
no notice. He could not turn round in righteous indignation and tell the fellows, and the listening
bystanders, that what they said of his father was a lie. The poor young curate, with his high
hopes and his enthusiastic love of the work he had chosen for the sake of his fellow-men, was
compelled to pass on with bowed head, and silent lips, and a heart burdened with the conviction
that his influence was altogether blighted and uprooted.

"It isn't true, sir, is it, what folks are tellin' about your father?" was a question put to
him more than once, when he entered some squalid home, in the hope of giving counsel, or help,
or comfort. There was something highly welcome and agreeable to these people, themselves thieves
or bordering on thievedom, in the idea that this fine, handsome, gentlemanly young clergyman,
who had set to work among them with so much energy and zeal, was the son of a dishonest rogue,
who ought to have been sent to jail as many of them had been. Felix had not failed to make
enemies in the Brickfields by his youthful intolerance of idleness, beggary, and drunkenness.
The owners of the gin-palaces hated him, and not a few of the rival religious sects were, to
say the least, uncharitably disposed towards one who had drawn so many of their followers to
himself. There was very little common social interest in the population of the district, for
the tramping classes of the lowest London poor, such as were drawn to the Brickfields by its
overflowing charities, have as little cohesion as a rope of sand; but Felix was so conspicuous
a figure in its narrow and dirty streets, that even strangers would nudge one another's elbows,
and almost before he was gone by narrate Nixey's story, with curious additions and alterations.

It was gall and wormwood to Felix that he was unable to contradict the story in full. He could
say that his father had never been a convict; but no inducement on earth could have wrung from
him the declaration that his father had never been guilty of fraud. Sometimes he wondered whether
it would not be well to own the simple truth, and endure the shame: if he had been the sole
survivor of his father's sin this he would have done, and gone on toilsomely regaining the
influence he had lost. But the secret touched his mother even more closely than himself, and
Hilda was equally concerned in it. It had been sacredly kept by those older than he was, and
it was not for him to betray it. "My poor mother!" he called her. Never, before he learned
the secret burden she had borne, had he called her by that tender and pitiful epithet; but
as often as he thought of her now his heart said, "My poor mother!"

As soon as Canon Pascal returned to England Felix took a day's holiday, and ran down by train
to the quiet rectory in Essex, where he had spent the greater portion of his boyhood. Only
a few years separated him from that careless and happiest period of his life; yet the last
three months had driven it into the far background. He almost smiled at the recollection of
how young he was half-a-year ago, when he had declared his love for Alice. How far dearer to
him she was now than then! The one letter he had received from her, written in Switzerland,
and telling him in loving detail of her visit to his father's grave, would be forever one of
his most precious treasures. But he was not going to share his blemished name with her. He
had had nothing worthy of her, or of his father, to lay at her feet, whilst he was yet in utter
ignorance of the shame he had inherited; and now? He must never more think of her as his wife.

She was at home, he knew; but he sternly forbade himself to seek for her. It was Canon Pascal
he had come down to see, and he went straight on to his well-known study. He was busy in the
preparation of next Sunday's sermons, but at the sight of Felix's dejected, unsmiling face,
he swept away his books and papers with one hand, whilst he stretched out his hand to give
him such a warm, strong, hearty grip as he might have given to a drowning man.

"What is it, my son?" he asked.

There was such a full sympathetic tone in the friendly voice speaking to him, that Felix felt
his burden already shared, and pressing less heavily on his bruised spirit. He stood a little
behind Canon Pascal, with his hand upon his shoulder, as he had often placed himself before
when he was pleading for some boyish indulgence, or begging pardon for some boyish fault.

"You have been like a true father to me, and I come to tell you a great trouble," he began
in a tremulous voice. Felix, life teaches us so, as well as this wise old Book."

"You know it?" stammered Felix.

"Phebe told me," he interrupted, "six months since. And now you and I can understand Felicita.
There was no prejudice against our Alice in her mind; no unkindness to either of you. But she
could not bring herself to say the truth against the husband whom she has wept and mourned
over so long. And your mother is the soul of truth and honor; she could not let you marry whilst
we were ignorant of this matter. It has been a terrible cross to bear, and she has borne it
in silence. I love and revere your mother more than ever."

