When the Civil War came he remembers hearing one night "Sherman is coming." It was said that
Wheeler's Cavalry of the Confederates was always "running and fighting." Lane had moved the
family to Macon, Georgia, and they lived on a place called "Dunlap's Hill." That night four
preachers were preaching "Fellow soldiers, the enemy is just here to Bolden's Brook, sixteen
miles away and you may be carried into judgment; prepare to meet your God." While they were
preaching, bombs began to fly because Wheeler's Cavalry was only six miles away instead of
16 miles; women screamed and children ran. Wheeler kept wagons ahead of him so that when one
was crippled the other would replace it. He says he imagines he hears the voice of Sherman
now, saying: "Tell Wheeler to go on to South Carolina; we will mow it down with grape shot
and plow it in with bombshell."

Emancipation came and with it great rejoicing. He recalls that Republicans were called "Radicals"
just after the close of the Civil War.

Mr. Lane was able to save all of his meat, silver, and other valuables during the war by having
a cave dug in the hog pasture; the hogs trampled over it daily. 

Now nothing is left to us of the twelve Apostles except a rough-hewn sketch of S. Matthew. Michelangelo
was unwilling or unable to organise a band of craftsmen fairly interpretative
of his manner.

When his own hand failed, or when he lost the passion for his labour, he left the thing unfinished.
And much of this incompleteness in his life-work seems to me due to his being what I called
a dreamer. He lacked the merely business faculty, the power of utilising hands and brains.
He could not bring his genius into open market, and stamp inferior productions with his countersign.
Willingly he retired into the solitude of his own self, to commune with great poets and to
meditate upon high thoughts, while he indulged the emotions arising
from forms of strength and beauty presented to his gaze upon the pathway
of experience.

CHAPTER IV I Among the many nephews whom Sixtus IV. had raised to
eminence, the most distinguished was Giuliano della Rovere, Cardinal
of S. Pietro in Vincoli, and Bishop of Ostia.

This man possessed a fiery temper, indomitable energy, and the combative
instinct which takes delight in fighting for its own sake.

Nature intended him for a warrior; and, though circumstances made him chief of the Church, he discharged
his duties as a Pontiff in the spirit of a general and a conqueror. When Julius II. was elected
in November 1503, it became at once apparent that he intended to complete what his hated predecessors,
the Borgias, had begun, by reducing to his sway all the provinces
over which the See of Rome had any claims, and creating a central
power in Italy.

Unlike the Borgias, however, he entertained no plan of raising his own family to sovereignty
at the expense of the Papal power. The Della Roveres were to be contented with their Duchy
of Urbino, which came to them by inheritance from the Montefeltri. Julius dreamed of Italy for the
Italians, united under the hegemony of the Supreme Pontiff, who from Rome extended his spiritual
authority and political influence over the whole of Western Europe. It does not enter into the scheme
of this book to relate the series of wars and alliances in which this belligerent Pope involved his
country, and the final failure of his policy, so far as the liberation of Italy from the barbarians
was concerned. Suffice it to say, that at the close of his stormy reign he had reduced the States
of the Church to more or less complete obedience, bequeathing to his
successors an ecclesiastical kingdom which the enfeebled condition
of the peninsula at large enabled them to keep intact.

There was nothing petty or mean in Julius II.; his very faults bore a grandiose and heroic aspect.
Turbulent, impatient, inordinate in his ambition, reckless in his choice of means, prolific of
immense projects, for which a lifetime would have been too short, he filled the ten years of
his pontificate with a din of incoherent deeds and vast schemes half accomplished. Such was the man who
called Michelangelo to Rome at the commencement of 1505. Why the sculptor was willing to leave
his Cartoon unfinished, and to break his engagement with the Operai
del Duomo, remains a mystery.

It is said that the illustrious architect, Giuliano da San Gallo, who
had worked for Julius while he was cardinal, and was now his principal
adviser upon matters of art, suggested to the Pope that Buonarroti
could serve him admirably in his ambitious enterprises for the embellishment
of the Eternal City.

We do not know for certain whether Julius, when he summoned Michelangelo from Florence, had
formed the design of engaging him upon a definite piece of work. The first weeks of his residence
in Rome are said to have been spent in inactivity, until at last Julius proposed to erect
a huge monument of marble for his own tomb. Thus began the second and longest period of Michelangelo's
art-industry. Henceforth he was destined to labour for a series of Popes, following their whims
with distracted energies and a lamentable waste of time. The incompleteness which marks so much
of his performance was due to the rapid succession of these imperious masters, each in turn
careless about the schemes of his predecessor, and bent on using the artist's
genius for his own profit. It is true that nowhere but in Rome could
Michelangelo have received commissions on so vast a scale.

Nevertheless we cannot but regret the fate which drove him to consume years of hampered industry
upon what Condivi calls "the tragedy of Julius's tomb," upon quarrying and road-making for Leo X.,
upon the abortive plans at S. Lorenzo, and upon architectural and engineering works, which
were not strictly within his province.

At first it seemed as though fortune was about to smile on him. In Julius he found a patron who could
understand and appreciate his powers. Between the two men there existed a strong bond of sympathy
due to community of temperament. Both aimed at colossal achievements in their respective fields of action.
The imagination of both was fired by large and simple rather than luxurious and subtle thoughts.
Both were uomini terribili, to use a phrase denoting vigour of character and energy of genius,
made formidable by an abrupt, uncompromising spirit.

Both worked with what the Italians call fury, with the impetuosity of daemonic natures; and both
left the impress of their individuality stamped indelibly upon their age. Julius, in all things
grandiose, resolved to signalise his reign by great buildings, great sculpture, great pictorial
schemes. There was nothing of the dilettante and collector about him. He wanted creation at a
rapid rate and in enormous quantities. To indulge this craving, he gathered round him a band
of demigods and Titans, led by Bramante, Raffaello, Michelangelo, and
enjoyed the spectacle of a new world of art arising at his bidding
through their industry of brain and hand.

II What followed upon Michelangelo's arrival in Rome may be told in Condivi's words: "Having reached
Rome, many months elapsed before Julius decided on what great work he would employ him. At
last it occurred to him to use his genius in the construction of his
own tomb.

The design furnished by Michelangelo pleased the Pope so much that he sent him off immediately to
Carrara, with commission to quarry as much marble as was needful for that undertaking. Two thousand
ducats were put to his credit with Alamanni Salviati at Florence for expenses. He remained more
than eight months among those mountains, with two servants and a
horse, but without any salary except his keep.

One day, while inspecting the locality, the fancy took him to convert a hill which commands
the sea-shore into a Colossus, visible by mariners afar. The shape of the huge rock, which
lent itself admirably to such a purpose, attracted him; and he was further moved to emulate the
ancients, who, sojourning in the place peradventure with the same
object as himself, in order to while away the time, or for some other
motive, have left certain unfinished and rough-hewn monuments, which
give a good specimen of their craft.

And assuredly he would have carried out this scheme, if time enough
had been at his disposal, or if the special purpose of his visit to
Carrara had permitted.

I one day heard him lament bitterly that he had not done so.
Well, then, after quarrying and selecting the blocks which he deemed
sufficient, he had them brought to the sea, and left a man of his
to ship them off.

He returned to Rome, and having stopped some days in Florence on the way, when he arrived there, he found
that part of the marble had already reached the Ripa. There he had them disembarked, and carried
to the Piazza of S. Peter's behind S. Caterina, where he kept his lodging, close to the corridor
connecting the Palace with the Castle of S. Angelo.

The quantity of stone was enormous, so that, when it was all spread out upon the square, it stirred
amazement in the minds of most folk, but joy in the Pope's. Julius indeed began to heap favours upon
Michelangelo; for when he had begun to work, the Pope used frequently to
betake himself to his house, conversing there with him about the
tomb, and about other works which he proposed to carry out in concert
with one of his brothers.

In order to arrive more conveniently at Michelangelo's lodgings, he had a drawbridge thrown across
from the corridor, by which he might gain privy access." The date of Michelangelo's return to Rome
is fixed approximately by a contract signed at Carrara between him and two shipowners of Lavagna.
This deed is dated November 12, 1505. It shows that thirty-four cartloads
of marble were then ready for shipment, together with two figures
weighing fifteen cartloads more.

We have a right to assume that Michelangelo left Carrara soon after completing this transaction.
Allowing, then, for the journey and the halt at Florence, he probably reached Rome in the last week
of that month. III The first act in the tragedy of the sepulchre had now begun, and Michelangelo
was embarked upon one of the mightiest undertakings which a sovereign of the stamp of Julius ever
intrusted to a sculptor of his titanic energy. In order to form a conception of the magnitude
of the enterprise, I am forced to enter into a discussion regarding
the real nature of the monument.

This offers innumerable difficulties, for we only possess imperfect notices regarding the original
design, and two doubtful drawings belonging to an uncertain period. Still it is impossible to
understand those changes in the Basilica of S. Peter's which were occasioned by the project of Julius,
or to comprehend the immense annoyances to which the tomb exposed Michelangelo, without grappling
with its details. Condivi's text must serve for guide. This, in fact, is the
sole source of any positive value. He describes the tomb, as he believed
it to have been first planned, in the following paragraph:-- "To give
some notion of the monument, I will say that it was intended to have
four faces: two of eighteen cubits, serving for the sides, and two
of twelve for the ends, so that the whole formed one great square
and a half.

Surrounding it externally were niches to be filled with statues, and between each pair of niches
stood terminal figures, to the front of which were attached on certain
consoles projecting from the wall another set of statues bound like
prisoners.

These represented the Liberal Arts, and likewise Painting, Sculpture, Architecture, each with characteristic
emblems, rendering their identification easy. The intention was to show that all the talents had
been taken captive by death, together with Pope Julius, since never would
they find another patron to cherish and encourage them as he had
done.

Above these figures ran a cornice, giving unity to the whole work. Upon the flat surface formed
by this cornice were to be four large statues, one of which, that is, the Moses, now exists at
S. Pietro ad Vincula.

And so, arriving at the summit, the tomb ended in a level space,
whereon were two angels who supported a sarcophagus.

One of them appeared to smile, rejoicing that the soul of the Pope had been received among the
blessed spirits; the other seemed to weep, as sorrowing that the world had been robbed of such
a man. From one of the ends, that is, by the one which was at the head of the monument, access was
given to a little chamber like a chapel, enclosed within the monument, in the midst of which
was a marble chest, wherein the corpse of the Pope was meant to be deposited.
The whole would have been executed with stupendous finish. In short, the
sepulchre included more than forty statues, not counting the histories
in half-reliefs, made of bronze, all of them pertinent to the general
scheme and representative of the mighty Pontiff's actions."

Vasari's account differs in some minor details from Condivi's, but it is of no authoritative
value. Not having appeared in the edition of 1550, we may regard it as a réchauffée of Condivi,
with the usual sauce provided by the Aretine's imagination. The only addition I can discover which
throws light upon Condivi's narrative is that the statues in the
niches were meant to represent provinces conquered by Julius.

This is important, because it leads us to conjecture that Vasari
knew a drawing now preserved in the Uffizi, and sought, by its means,
to add something to his predecessor's description.

The
drawing will occupy our attention shortly; but it may here be remarked that in 1505, the date of the
first project, Julius was only entering upon his conquests. It would have been a gross act
of flattery on the part of the sculptor, a flying in the face of Nemesis on the part of his patron,
to design a sepulchre anticipating length of life and luck sufficient
for these triumphs. What then Condivi tells us about the first scheme
is, that it was intended to stand isolated in the tribune of S. Peter's;
that it formed a rectangle of a square and half a square; that the
podium was adorned with statues in niches flanked by projecting dadoes
supporting captive arts, ten in number; that at each corner of the
platform above the podium a seated statue was placed, one of which
we may safely identify with the Moses; and that above this, surmounting
the whole monument by tiers, arose a second mass, culminating in a
sarcophagus supported by two angels.

He further adds that the tomb was entered at its extreme end by a door, which led to a little
chamber where lay the body of the Pope, and that bronze bas-reliefs formed a prominent feature
of the total scheme. He reckons that more than forty statues would have been required to complete
the whole design, although he has only mentioned twenty-two of the most prominent. More than
this we do not know about the first project. We have no contracts and no sketches that can be referred
to the date 1505. Much confusion has been introduced into the matter under consideration by the
attempt to reconcile Condivi's description with the drawing I have just
alluded to.

Heath Wilson even used that drawing to impugn Condivi's accuracy with regard to the number
of the captives, and the seated figures on the platform. The drawing in question, as we shall presently
see, is of great importance for the subsequent history of the monument; and I believe that it to some
extent preserves the general aspect which the tomb, as first designed,
was intended to present. Two points about it, however, prevent our
taking it as a true guide to Michelangelo's original conception.

One is that it is clearly only part of a larger scheme of composition. The other is that it shows
a sarcophagus, not supported by angels, but posed upon the platform. Moreover, it corresponds
to the declaration appended in 1513 by Michelangelo to the first
extant document we possess about the tomb.

Julius died in February 1513, leaving, it is said, to his executors directions that his sepulchre should
not be carried out upon the first colossal plan. If he did so, they
seem at the beginning of their trust to have disregarded his intentions.
Michelangelo expressly states in one of his letters that the Cardinal
of Agen wished to proceed with the tomb, but on a larger scale.

A deed dated May 6, 1513, was signed, at the end of which Michelangelo specified the details of
the new design. It differed from the former in many important respects, but most of all in the
fact that now the structure was to be attached to the wall of the church. I cannot do better
than translate Michelangelo's specifications.

They run as follows: "Let it be known to all men that I, Michelangelo,
sculptor of Florence, undertake to execute the sepulchre of Pope Julius
in marble, on the commission of the Cardinal of Agens and the Datary
(Pucci), who, after his death, have been appointed to complete this
work, for the sum of 16,500 golden ducats of the Camera; and the composition
of the said sepulchre is to be in the form ensuing: A rectangle visible
from three of its sides, the fourth of which is attached to the wall
and cannot be seen.

The front face, that is, the head of this rectangle, shall be twenty palms in breadth and fourteen
in height, the other two, running up against the wall, shall be thirty-five
palms long and likewise fourteen palms in height.

Each of these three sides shall contain two tabernacles, resting
on a basement which shall run round the said space, and shall be adorned
with pilasters, architrave, frieze, and cornice, as appears in the little
wooden model. In each of the said six tabernacles will be placed two figures
about one palm taller than life (i. e., 6-3/ 4 feet), twelve in all;
and in front of each pilaster which flanks a tabernacle shall stand a
figure of similar size, twelve in all. On the platform above the said
rectangular structure stands a sarcophagus with four feet, as may be
seen in the model, upon which will be Pope Julius sustained by two
angels at his head, with two at his feet; making five figures on the
sarcophagus, all larger than life, that is, about twice the size.

Round about the said sarcophagus will be placed six dadoes or pedestals, on which six figures of the
same dimensions will sit. Furthermore, from the platform, where it joins the wall, springs
a little chapel about thirty-five palms high (26 feet 3 inches), which shall contain five figures
larger than all the rest, as being farther from the eye.

Moreover, there shall be three histories, either of bronze or of
marble, as may please the said executors, introduced on each face
of the tomb between one tabernacle and another."

All this Michelangelo undertook to execute in seven years for the stipulated sum. The new project involved
thirty-eight colossal statues; and, fortunately for our understanding of it, we may be said with
almost absolute certainty to possess a drawing intended to represent it. Part of this is a pen-and-ink
sketch at the Uffizi, which has frequently been published, and part is a sketch in the Berlin
Collection. These have been put together by Professor Middleton of Cambridge,
who has also made out a key-plan of the tomb. With regard to its
proportions and dimensions as compared with Michelangelo's specification,
there remain some difficulties, with which I cannot see that Professor
Middleton has grappled.

It is perhaps not improbable, as Heath Wilson suggested, that the drawing had been thrown off
as a picturesque forecast of the monument without attention to scale. Anyhow, there is no doubt
that in this sketch, so happily restored by Professor Middleton's sagacity and tact, we are brought close to
Michelangelo's conception of the colossal work he never was allowed to execute. It not only
answers to the description translated above from the sculptor's own
appendix to the contract, but it also throws light upon the original
plan of the tomb designed for the tribune of S. Peter's. The basement
of the podium has been preserved, we may assume, in its more salient
features.

There are the niches spoken of by Condivi, with Vasari's conquered provinces prostrate at the feet
of winged Victories. These are flanked by the terminal figures, against which, upon projecting consoles,
stand the bound captives. This cotton, as a rule, readily caught fire. This was fire and all the fire needed
to start any blaze.

WEAVING.

The white folk wove the cloth on regular looms which were made into dresses for the slaves.
For various colors of cloth the thread was dyed. The dye was made by digging up red shank and
wild indigo roots which were boiled. The substance obtained being some of the best dye to be found.

BEVERAGES & FOOD.

Bread was made from flour and wheat. The meat used was pork, beef, mutton and goat. For preservation
it was smoked and kept in the smokehouse. Coffee was used as a beverage and when this ran out
as oft' times happened, parched peanuts were used for the purpose.

Mary and family arose before daybreak and prepared breakfast for the master and his family,
after which they ate in the same dining room. When this was over the dishes were washed by
Mary, her brother and sister. The children then played about until meals were served again.

WASHING and SOAP.

Washing was done in home-made wooden tubs, and boiling in iron pots similar to those of today.
Soap was made from fat and lye.

AMUSEMENTS.

The only amusement to be had was a big candy pulling, or hog killing and chicken cooking. The
slaves from the surrounding plantations were allowed to come together on these occasions. A
big time was had.

CHURCH.

The slaves went to the "white folks" church on Sundays. They were seated in the rear of the
church. The white minister would arise and exhort the slaves to 'mind your masters, you owe
them your respect.' An old Christian slave who perceived things differently could sometimes
be heard to mumble, "Yeah, wese jest as good as deys is only deys white and we's black, huh." It
would be futile to expound Michelangelo's fertility in dealing with the motives of the male figure
as minutely as I judged it necessary to explain the poverty of his
inspiration through the female.

But it ought to be repeated that, over the whole gamut of the scale, from the grace of boyhood,
through the multiform delightfulness of adolescence into the firm force of early manhood, and
the sterner virtues of adult age, one severe and virile spirit controls his fashioning of
plastic forms. He even exaggerates what is masculine in the male, as he caricatures the female
by ascribing impossible virility to her. But the exaggeration follows here a line of mental
and moral rectitude. It is the expression of his peculiar sensibility
to physical structure.

IX When we study the evolution of Michelangelo's ideal of form, we
find at the beginning of his life a very short period in which he
followed the traditions of Donatello and imitated Greek work.

The
seated Madonna in bas-relief and the Giovannino belong to this first stage. So does the bas-relief
of the Centaurs. It soon becomes evident, however, that Michelangelo was not destined to remain
a continuator of Donatello's manner or a disciple of the classics. The next period, which includes the
Madonna della Febbre, the Bruges Madonna, the Bacchus, the Cupid, and the David, is marked by an
intense search after the truth of Nature. Both Madonnas might be criticised for unreality, owing to
the enormous development of the thorax and something artificial in the
type of face. But all the male figures seem to have been studied
from the model.

There is an individuality about the character of each, a naturalism, an aiming after realistic expression,
which separate this group from previous and subsequent works by Buonarroti. Traces of Donatello's
influence survive in the treatment of the long large hands of David, the cast of features selected
for that statue, and the working of the feet. Indeed it may be said that Donatello continued
through life to affect the genius of Michelangelo by a kind of sympathy, although the elder
master's naïveté was soon discarded by the younger. The second period culminated in the Cartoon
for the Battle of Pisa. This design appears to have fixed the style now known to us as Michelangelesque,
and the loss of it is therefore irreparable.

It exercised the consummate science which he had acquired, his complete mastery over the male
nude. It defined his firm resolve to treat linear design from the point of view of sculpture rather than
of painting proper. It settled his determination to work exclusively through and by the human
figure, rejecting all subordinate elements of decoration. Had we possessed this epoch-making
masterpiece, we should probably have known Michelangelo's genius
in its flower-period of early ripeness, when anatomical learning was
still combined with a sustained dependence upon Nature.

The transition from the second to the third stage in this development of form-ideal remains
imperfectly explained, because the bathers in the Arno were necessary to account for the difference
between the realistic David and the methodically studied genii of
the Sistine. The vault of the Sistine shows Michelangelo's third manner
in perfection.

He has developed what may be called a scheme of the human form. The apparently
small head, the enormous breadth of shoulder, the thorax overweighing
the whole figure, the finely modelled legs, the large and powerful
extremities, which characterise his style henceforward, culminate
in Adam, repeat themselves throughout the genii, govern the prophets.

But Nature has not been neglected. Nothing is more remarkable in that vast decorative mass
of figures than the variety of types selected, the beauty and animation of the faces, the extraordinary
richness, elasticity, and freshness of the attitudes presented to the eye. Every period of life
has been treated with impartial justice, and both sexes are adequately handled. The Delphian, Erythrean,
and Libyan Sibyls display a sublime sense of facial beauty. The Eve of the Temptation has even something
of positively feminine charm. This is probably due to the fact that Michelangelo here studied expression
and felt the necessity of dramatic characterisation in this part of his work. He struck each chord
of what may be called the poetry of figurative art, from the epic cantos of Creation, Fall,
and Deluge, through the tragic odes uttered by prophets and sibyls down to the lyric notes of the genii,
and the sweet idyllic strains of the groups in the lunettes and spandrels.
 The party
broke up in the early hours of the morning.

