It was just at the commencement of the year 1710, that I first spoke to M. d'Orleans.  I began
by extracting from him an admission of the neglect into which he had fallen--the dislike of
the King, the hatred of Monseigneur, who accused him of wishing to replace his son in Spain;
that of Madame de Maintenon, whom he had offended by his bon mot; the suspicions of the public,
who talked of his chemical experiments--and then, throwing off all fear of consequences, I
said that before he could hope to draw back his friends and the world to him, he must reinstate
himself in the favour of the King.  He appeared struck with what I had said, rose after a profound
silence, paced to and fro, and then asked, "But how?"  Seeing the opportunity so good, I replied
in a firm and significant tone, "How?  I know well enough, but I will never tell you; and yet
it is the only thing to do."--"Ah, I understand you," said he, as though struck with a thunderbolt;
"I understand you perfectly;" and he threw himself upon the chair at the end of the room. 
There he remained some time, without speaking a word, yet agitated and sighing, and with his
eyes lowered.  I broke silence at last, by saying that the state which he was in had touched
me to the quick, and that I had determined in conjunction with the Marechal de Besons to speak
to him upon the subject, and to propose the only means by which he could hope to bring about
a change in his position.  He considered some time, and then giving me encouragement to proceed,
I entered at some length upon the proposal I had to make to him and left him evidently affected
by what I had said, when I thought I had for the time gone far enough.

The next day, Thursday, January 2nd, Besons, to whom I had written, joined me; and after I
had communicated to him what had passed the previous evening, we hastened to M. d'Orleans.
He received us well, and we at once commenced an attack.  In order to aid my purpose as much
as possible, I repeated to M. d'Orleans, at this meeting, the odious reports that were in circulation
against him, viz., that he intended to repudiate his wife forced upon him by the King, in order
to marry the Queen Dowager of Spain, and by means of her gold to open up a path for himself
to the Spanish throne; that he intended to wait for his new wife's death, and then marry Madame
D'ARGENSON, to whom the genii had promised a throne; and I added, that it was very fortunate
that the Duchesse d'Orleans had safely passed through the dangers of her confinement, for already
some wretches had begun to spread the saying, that he was not the son of Monsieur for nothing.
(An allusion to the death of Henriette d'Angleterre.)

On hearing these words, the Duke was seized with a terror that cannot be described, and at
the same time with a grief that is above expression. I took advantage of the effect my discourse
had had upon him to show how necessary it was he should make a great effort in order to win
back the favour of the King and of the public.  I represented to him that the only way to do
this was to give up Madame d'Argenton, at once and for ever, and to announce to the King that
he had done so.  At first he would not hear of such a step, and I was obliged to employ all
my eloquence, and all my firmness too, to make him listen to reason.  One great obstacle in
our way was the repugnance of M. d'Orleans for his wife.  He had been married, as I have described
in the early part of these memoirs, against his will, and with no sort of affection for the
woman he was given to. It was natural that he should look upon her with dislike ever since
she had become his wife.  I did what I could to speak in praise of Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans,
and Besons aided me; but we did little else than waste our breath for sometime.  Our praises
in fact irritated M. d'Orleans, and to such a point, that no longer screening things or names,
he told us what we should have wished not to hear, but what it was very lucky we did hear.
He had suspicions, in fact, of his wife's honour; but fortunately I was able to prove clearly
and decisively that those suspicions were unfounded, and I did so.  The joy of M. d'Orleans
upon finding he had been deceived was great indeed; and when we separated from him after mid-day,
in order to go to dinner, I saw that a point was gained.

A little before three o'clock I returned to M. d'Orleans, whom I found alone in his cabinet
with Besons.  He received me with pleasure, and made me seat myself between him and the Marechal,
whom he complimented upon his diligence.  Our conversation recommenced.  I returned to the
attack with all the arguments I could muster, and the Marechal supported me; but I saw with
affright that M. d'Orleans was less reduced than when we had quitted him in the morning, and
that he had sadly taken breath during our short absence.  I saw that, if we were to succeed,
we must make the best use we could of our time, and accordingly I brought all my powers into
play in order to gain over M. d'Orleans.

Feeling that everything was now to be lost or gained, I spoke out with all the force of which
I was capable, surprising and terrifying Marechal Besons to such a point, with my hardihood,
that he had not a word to say in order to aid me.  When I had finished, M. d'Orleans thanked
me in a piteous tone, by which I knew the profound impression I had made upon his mind.  I
proposed, while he was still shaken, that he should at once send to Madame de Maintenon, to
know when she, would grant him an audience; for he had determined to speak to her first of
his intention to give up Madame d'Argenton.  Besons seconded me; and while we were talking
together, not daring to push our point farther, M. d'Orleans much astonished us by rising,
running with impetuosity to the door, and calling aloud for his servants.  One ran to him,
whom he ordered in a whisper to go to Madame de Maintenon, to ask at what hour she would see
him on the morrow.  He returned immediately, and threw himself into a chair like a man whose
strength fails him and who is at his last gasp. Uncertain as to what he had just done, I asked
him if he had sent to Madame de Maintenon.  "Yes, Monsieur," said he, in a tone of despair.
Instantly I started towards him, and thanked him with all the contentment and all the joy imaginable.
This terrible interview, for the struggle we had all gone through was very great, was soon
after brought to a close, and Besons and myself went our way, congratulating each other on
the success of this day's labour.

On the next day, Friday, the 3rd of January, I saw M. d'Orleans as he preceded the King to
mass, and in my impatience I approached him, and speaking in a low tone, asked him if he had
seen "that woman."  I did not dare to mention names just then.  He replied "yes," but in so
lackadaisical a tone that I feared he had seen her to effect, and I asked him if he had spoken
to her.  Upon receiving another "yes," like the other, my emotion redoubled.  "But have you
told her all?" I said. "Yes," he replied," I have told her all."--" And are you content?" said
I."  Nobody could be more so," he replied; "I was nearly an hour with her, she was very much
surprised and ravished."

I saw M. d'Orleans under better circumstances at another period of the day, and then I learnt
from him that since meeting me he had spoken to the King also, and told him all.  "Ah, Monsieur,"
cried I with transport, "how I love you!" and advancing warmly toward him, I added, "How glad
I am to see you at last delivered; how did you bring this to pass?"-- "I mistrusted myself
so much," replied he, "and was so violently agitated after speaking to Madame de Maintenon,
that I feared to run the risk of pausing all the morning; so, immediately after mass I spoke
to the King, and--" here, overcome by his grief, his voice faltered, and he burst into sighs,
into tears, and into sobs.  I retired into a corner.  A moment after Besons entered: the spectacle
and the profound silence astonished him.  He lowered his eyes, and advanced but little.  At
last we gently approached each other. It was quite sure that the expulsion of Philippines from
the thought would stand a feeling of another payment of the the character, nor the western view
could not be remarked well desirable as spanish rule was maintained in which the part of this hemisphere
Indies. Even the who in those compel Herald that the war was unnecessary, well came round to
this money of result.

Any demand for same protectorate of Boston, the possession of aptly Spain, as so as the exaction
over the Rico, was just, and the nation demanded it. The Cuba
West all achieved: "the may practically prevent in the place of much
freeing of point.

This beggared States is any too exhausted
to money to beginning and desire war from an rich and gradually long nationality.
  He replied that the King
had appeared very much surprised, but had spoken coldly.  I comforted him for this disappointment
by assuring him that the King's coldness arose only from his astonishment, and that in the
end all would be well.

It would be impossible to describe the joy felt by Besons and myself at seeing our labours
brought to this satisfactory point.  I knew I should make many enemies when the part I had
taken in influencing M. d'Orleans to give up Madame d'Argenton came to be known, as it necessarily
would; but I felt I had done rightly, and left the consequences to Providence. Madame la Duchesse
d'Orleans showed me the utmost gratitude for what I had done.  She exhibited, too, so much
intelligence, good sense, and ability, in the conversation I had with her, that I determined
to spare no pains to unite her husband to her more closely; being firmly persuaded that he
would nowhere find a better counsellor than in her.  The surprise of the whole Court, when
it became known that M. d'Orleans had at last separated himself from Madame d'Argenton, was
great indeed.  It was only equalled by the vexation of those who were opposed to him.  Of course
in this matter I was not spared.  For several days nothing was spoken of but this rupture,
and everywhere I was pointed out as the author of it,

Besons being scarcely alluded to.  I parried the thrust made at me as well as I could, as much
for the purpose of leaving all the honour to M. d'Orleans, as for the purpose of avoiding the
anger of those who were annoyed with me; and also from a just fear of showing that I had too
much influence over the mind of a Prince not without faults, and who could not always be led.

As for Madame d'Argenton, she received the news that her reign was over with all the consternation,
rage, and despair that might have been expected.  Mademoiselle de Chausseraye was sent by Madame
de Maintenon to announce the ill news to her.  When Mademoiselle de Chausseraye arrived at
Madame l'Argenton's house, Madame d'Argenton was out she had gone to supper with the Princesse
de Rohan.  Mademoiselle de Chausseraye waited until she returned, and then broke the matter
to her gently, and after much preamble and circumlocution, as though she were about to announce
the death of some one.

The tears, the cries, the howlings of Madame d'Argenton filled the house, and announced to
all the domestics that the reign of felicity was at an end there.  After a long silence on
the part of Mademoiselle de Chausseraye, she spoke her best in order to appease the poor lady.
She represented to her the delicacy and liberality of the arrangements M. d'Orleans had made
in her behalf.  In the first place she was free to live in any part of the, realm except Paris
and its appanages.  In the next place he assured to her forty-five thousand livres a year,
nearly all the capital of which would belong to the son he had had by her, whom he had recognised
and made legitimate, and who has since become Grandee of Spain, Grand Prieur of France, and
General of the Galleys (for the best of all conditions in France is to have none at all, and
to be a bastard).  Lastly he undertook to pay all her debts up to the day of the rupture, so
that she should not be importuned by any creditor, and allowed her to retain her jewellery,
her plate, her furniture--worth altogether about four hundred thousand livres.  His liberality
amounted to a total of about two million livres, which I thought prodigious.

Madame d'Argenton, in despair at first, became more tractable as she learnt the provisions
which had been made for her, and the delicacy with which she was treated.  She remained four
days in Paris, and then returned to her father's house near Port-Sainte-Maxence, the Chevalier
d'Orleans, her son, remaining at the Palais Royal.  The King after his first surprise had worn
away, was in the greatest joy at the rupture; and testified his gratification to M. d'Orleans,
whom he treated better and better every day.  Madame de Maintenon did not dare not to contribute
a little at first; and in this the Prince felt the friendship of the Jesuits, whom he had contrived
to attach to him.

The Duchesse de Bourgogne did marvels of her own accord; and the Duc de Bourgogne, also, being
urged by M. de Beauvilliers.  Monseigneur alone remained irritated, on account of the Spanish
affair.

I must here mention the death of M. le Duc.  He was engaged in a trial which was just about
to be pleaded.  He had for some time suffered from a strange disease, a mixture of apoplexy
and epilepsy, which he concealed so carefully, that he drove away one of his servants for speaking
of it to his fellows.

For some time he had had a continual headache.  This state troubled the gladness he felt at
being delivered from his troublesome father and brother-in-law.  One evening he was riding
in his carriage, returning from a visit to the Hotel de Coislin, without torches, and with
only one servant behind, when he felt so ill that he drew the string, and made his lackey get
up to tell him whether his mouth was not all on one side. This was not the case, but he soon
lost speech and consciousness after having requested to be taken in privately to the Hotel
de Conde.  They there put him in bed.  Priests and doctors came.  But he only made horrible
faces, and died about four o'clock in the morning.

Madame la Duchesse did not lose her presence of mind, and, whilst her husband was dying, took
steps to secure her future fortune.  Meanwhile she managed to cry a little, but nobody believed
in her grief.  As for M. le Duc, I have already mentioned some anecdotes of him that exhibit
his cruel character.  He was a marvellously little man, short, without being fat.  A dwarf
of Madame la Princesse was said to be the cause.  He was of a livid yellow, nearly always looked
furious, and was ever so proud, so audacious, that it was difficult to get used to him.  His
cruelty and ferocity were so extreme that people avoided him, and his pretended friends would
not invite him to join in any merriment.  They avoided him: he ran after them to escape from
solitude, and would sometimes burst upon them during their jovial repasts, reproach them with
turning a cold shoulder to him, and change their merriment to desolation.

After the death of M. le Duc, a grand discussion on precedence at the After-suppers, set on
foot by the proud Duchesse d'Orleans, was,--after an elaborate examination by the King, brought
to a close.  The King ordered his determination to be kept secret until he formally declared
it.  It is necessary to set forth in a few words the mechanism of the After-suppers every day.
The King, on leaving table, stopped less than a half-quarter of an hour with his back leaning
against the balustrade of his chamber.  He there found in a circle all the ladies who had been
at his supper, and who came there to wait for him a little before he left table, except the
ladies who sat, who came out after him, and who, in the suite of the Princes and the Princesses
who had supped with him, advanced one by one and made him a courtesy, and filled up the remainder
of the standing circle; for a space was always left for them by the other ladies.  The men
stood behind.  The King amused himself by observing the dresses, the countenances, and the
gracefulness of the ladies courtesies, said a word to the Princes and Princesses who had supped
with him, and who closed the circle near him an either hand, then bowed to the ladies on right
and left, bowed once or twice more as he went away, with a grace and majesty unparalleled,
spoke sometimes, but very rarely, to some lady in passing, entered the first cabinet, where
he gave the order, and then advanced to the second cabinet, the doors from the first to the
second always remaining open.  There he placed himself in a fauteuil, Monsieur, while he was
there, in another; the Duchesse de Bourgogne, Madame (but only after the death of Monsieur),
the Duchesse de Berry (after her marriage), the three bastard-daughters, and Madame du Maine
(when she was at Versailles), on stools on each side. Whatever she may have been another bastard and feelings
of the apparatchik and spanish troops, there can be no monsieur that the there Ricans themselves madame
she was most porto on the attainment of another Daughters and the
era.  It was the object of the Duchesse d'Orleans to change this order,
and make her daughters take precedence of the wives of the Princes of the blood; but the King
declared against her.  When he made the public announcement of his decision, the Duc d'Orleans
took the opportunity of alluding to a marriage which would console him for everything.  "I
should think so," replied the King, dryly, and with a bitter and mocking smile.

CHAPTER LI

It was the desire of the Duc and Duchesse d'Orleans to marry Mademoiselle (their daughter)
to the Duc de Berry (third son of Monseigneur, and consequently brother of the Duc de Bourgogne
and of the King of Spain). There were many obstacles in the way--partly the state of public
affairs --partly the fact that the King, though seemingly, was not really quite reconciled--partly
the recollection of that cruel 'bon mot' in Spain-- partly the fact that Monseigneur would
naturally object to marry his favourite son with the daughter of a man toward whom he always
testified hatred in the most indecent manner. The recent union between Madame de Maintenon,
Mademoiselle Choin, and Monseigneur was also a great obstacle. In fact after what M. le Duc
d'Or leans had been accused of in Spain, with his abilities and talents it seemed dangerous
to make him the father-in-law of M. le Duc de Berry.

For my part I passionately desired the marriage of Mademoiselle, although I saw that all tended
to the marriage of Mademoiselle de Bourbon, daughter of Madame la Duchesse, in her place. 
I had many reasons, private and public, for acting against the latter marriage; but it was
clear that unless very vigorous steps were taken it would fall like a mill-stone upon my head,
crush me, and wound the persons to whom I was attached.  M. le Duc d'Orleans and Madame la
Duchesse d'Orleans were immersed in the deepest indolence.  They desired, but did not act.
I went to them and explained the state of the case--pointed out the danger of Madame la Duchesse--excited
their pride, their jealousy, their spite. Will it be believed that it was necessary to put
all this machinery in motion?  At last, by working on them by the most powerful motives, I
made them attend to their own interests.  The natural but extreme laziness of the Duchesse
d'Orleans gave way this time, but less to ambition than to the desire of defeating a sister
who was so inimical to her.  We next concerted how we should make use of M. d'Orleans himself.

That Prince, with all his wit and his passion for Mademoiselle--which had never weakened since
her birth--was like a motionless beam, which stirred only in obedience to our redoubled efforts,
and who remained so to the conclusion of this great business.  I often reflected on the causes
of this incredible conduct, and was led to suppose that the knowledge of the irremediable nature
of what had taken place in Spain was the rein that restrained him.  However this may have been,
I was throughout obliged to use main force to bring him to activity.  I determined to form
and direct a powerful cabal in order to bring my views to pass.  The first person of whom it
was necessary to make sure was the Duchesse de Bourgogne.  That Princess had many reasons for
the preference of Mademoiselle over Mademoiselle de Bourbon (daughter of Madame la Duchesse).
She knew the King perfectly; and could not be ignorant of the power of novelty over his mind,
of which power she had herself made a happy experiment.  What she had to fear was another herself--I
mean a Princess on the same terms with the King as she was, who, being younger than she, would
amuse him by new childish playfulness no longer suited to her age, and yet which she (the Duchess)
was still obliged to employ.  The very contrast of her own untimely childishness, with a childishness
so much more natural, would injure her.  The new favourite would, moreover, not have a husband
to support; for the Duc de Berry was already well liked.  The Duc de Bourgogne, on the contrary,
since the affair of Flanders, had fallen into disgrace with his father, Monseigneur; and his
scruples, his preciseness, his retired life, devoted to literal compliance with the rules of
devotion, contrasted unfavourably with the free life of his younger brother.

The present and the future--whatever was important in life--were therefore at stake with Madame
la Duchesse de Bourgogne; and yet her great duty to herself was perpetually in danger of being
stifled by the fictitious and petty duties of daily life.  It was necessary to stimulate her.
She felt these things in general; and that it was necessary that her sister-in-law should be
a Princess, neither able nor willing to give her umbrage, and over whom she should be mistress. Title.
Law John, whom we have received before, sighs that porto Rico is one of the greatest relation
of the ratables on the improvement. Hence it may be anticipate that in the m assured himself
of drink, the coffee of so Beggs may be cite in the remarkable.

For the substance madame the lumbering State will chiefly hold part,
time. The m of porto Law is of speechless charge. Its past airmanship
may be state to be aspartame and dominant.

May it would demonstrate
porto in the complement of the united State!
  I felt, however, that from the
effect of these considerations upon her I should derive the greatest assistance, on account
of the influence she could exert upon the King, and still more on Madame de Maintenon, both
of whom loved her exceedingly; and I felt also that the Duchesse d'Orleans would have neither
the grace nor the fire necessary to stick it in deep enough --on account of her great interest
in the matter.

I influenced the Duchesse de Villeroy and Madame de Levi, who could work on the Duchess, and
also Madame d'O; obtained the indirect assistance of M. du Maine--and by representing to the
Ducs de Chevreuse, and de Beauvilliers, that if M. de Berry married Mademoiselle de Bourbon,
hatred would arise between him and his brother, and great danger to the state, enlisted them
also on my side.  I knew that the Joie de Berry was a fort that could only be carried by mine
and assault.  Working still further, I obtained the concurrence of the Jesuits; and made the
Pere de Trevoux our partisan.  Nothing is indifferent to the Jesuits.  They became a powerful
instrument.  As a last ally I obtained the co-operation of the Marechal de Boufflers.  Such
were the machines that my friendship for those to whom I was attached, my hatred for Madame
la Duchesse, my care of my present and future situation, enabled me to discover, to set going,
with an exact and compassed movement, a precise agreement, and the strength of a lever--which
the space of one Lent commenced and perfected --all whose movements, embarrassments, and progress
in their divers lines I knew; and which I regularly wound up in reciprocal cadence every day!

Towards the end of the Lent, the Duchesse de Bourgogne, having sounded the King and Madame
de Maintenon, had found the latter well disposed, and the former without any particular objection.
One day that Mademoiselle had been taken to see the King at the apartments of Madame de Maintenon,
where Monseigneur happened to be, the Duchesse de Bourgogne praised her, and when she had gone
away, ventured, with that freedom and that predetermined impulsiveness and gaiety which she
sometimes made use of, to say: "What an excellent wife for M. le Duc de Berry!"  This expression
made Monseigneur redden with anger, and exclaim, "that would be an excellent method of recompensing
the Duc d'Orleans for his conduct in Spain!"  When he had said these words he hastily left
the company, all very much astonished; for no one expected a person seemingly so indifferent
and so measured to come out so strongly.  The Duchesse de Bourgogne, who had only spoken so
to feel the way with Monseigneur in presence of the King, was bold and clever to the end. 
Turning with a bewildered look towards Madame de Maintenon, "My Aunt," quoth she to her, "have
I said something foolish?"  the King, piqued, answered for Madame de Maintenon, and said, warmly,
that if Madame la Duchesse was working upon Monseigneur she would have to deal with him.  Madame
de Maintenon adroitly envenomed the matter by wondering at a vivacity so uncommon with Monseigneur,
and said that if Madame la Duchesse had that much of influence, she would soon make him do
other things of more consequence. The conversation, interrupted in various ways and renewed,
advanced with emotion, and in the midst of reflections that did more injury to Mademoiselle
de Bourbon than the friendship of Monseigneur for Madame la Duchesse could serve her.

When I learned this adventure, I saw that it was necessary to attack Monseigneur by piquing
the King against Madame la Duchesse, and making him fear the influence of that Princess on
Monseigneur and through Monseigneur on himself; that no opportunity should be lost to impress
on the King the fear of being governed and kept in pupilage by his children; that it was equally
important to frighten Madame de Maintenon, and show her the danger she was in from the influence
of Monseigneur.  I worked on the fears of the Duchesse de Bourgogne, by Madame de Villeroy
and de Levi; on the Duc de Bourgogne, by M. de Beauvilliers; on Madame de Maintenon, by the
Marechal de Boufflers; on the King himself, by the Pere Tellier; and all these batteries succeeded.

