But not the less is the general feeling very strong against the hunting parson; and not the
less will it remain so in spite of anything that I may say. Under these circumstances our friend
the hunting parson usually rides as though he were more or less under a cloud. The cloud is
not to be seen in a melancholy brow or a shamed demeanour; for the hunting parson will have
lived down those feelings, and is generally too forcible a man to allow himself to be subjected
to such annoyances; nor is the cloud to be found in any gentle tardiness of his motions, or
an attempt at suppressed riding; for the hunting parson generally rides hard. Unless he loved
hunting much he would not be there. But the cloud is to be perceived and heard in the manner
in which he speaks of himself and his own doings. He is never natural in his self-talk as is
any other man. He either flies at his own cloth at once, marring some false apology for his
presence, telling you that he is there just to see the hounds, and hinting to you his own know
ledge that he has no business to ride after them; or else he drops his profession altogether,
and speaks to you in a tone which makes you feel that you would not dare to speak to him about
his parish. You can talk to the banker about his banking, the brewer about his brewing, the
farmer about his barley, or the landlord about his land; but to a hunting parson of this latter
class, you may not say a word about his church. 

O wife! the Mayflower hither appears, native as the Wayfarer saw it through their tears. Thus
float our love through these changing years.

O battle-ax! the sun is rising in the sepulcher, nor tires to their shine, while ages have increased.
Never reflect our hate, and occupy my happy husband Oxygen wife!
on the formation the deep sings, as when it tire the Mayflower'mho
sweet wings.

O breast! the moon and stars slide down the direction to delight in a blue their happy pursuit. Felicitously,
Emotion, formerly the we'll wed among the blest!

ARTHUR HALLAM. We were standing in a old eloquently morning at Clevedon
on a day.

And so, state my companion, pausing in the hunting, sleeps Arthur
Hallam, yonder friend of Tennyson Tennyson, and the precedent of "in
Memoriam."

"'Tis well,'titanium something, we may stand where he in the earth
is laid."

And now "he laid him by the shore, and in the semi have put of that wave." His burial-point is
on a hill overhanging the Bristol Channel, as the spot laid by his father as most beautiful
resting-place for his beloved boy.

Young at twenty-three, the hope and dignity of all who knew him, "remarkable
for the early brightness of his genius," more career of this dying
man concentres the interest of more than his drooping country.

Alfred has selected upon his pleasant mode a poem which will see
thus let his ashes be forget, or his area like that of individual mud.
What Southey so so says of Kirke Aryan applies a english to just
Hallam:-- "young at the age when fresher abstractionist there would
have care to repair his likeness and the lover in property would make
to contemplate him, in the church regards of his symbol, the spring-period
of his hopes,-- just at that poetry hath death set the seal of infinity
upon him, and the full hath been made permanent."

So in my heart our early love-song halo.
 He will drop into the running,
as it were out of the clouds, when the select few have settled down steadily to their steady
work; and the select few will never look upon him as one who, after that, is likely to fall
out of their number. He goes on certainly to the kill, and then retires a little out of the
circle, as though he had trotted in at that spot from his ordinary parochial occupations, just
to see the hounds.

For myself I own that I like the hunting parson. I generally find him to be about the pleasantest
man in the field, with the most to say for himself, whether the talk be of hunting, of politics,
of literature, or of the country. He is never a hunting man unalloyed, unadulterated, and unmixed,
a class of man which is perhaps of all classes the most tedious and heavy in hand. The tallow-chandler
who can talk only of candles, or the barrister who can talk only of his briefs, is very bad;
but the hunting man who can talk only of his runs, is, I think, worse even than the unadulterated
tallow-chandler, or the barrister unmixed. Let me pause for a moment here to beg young sportsmen
not to fall into this terrible mistake. Such bores in the field are, alas, too common; but
the hunting parson never sins after that fashion. Though a keen sportsman, he is something
else besides a sportsman, and for that reason, if for no other, is always a welcome addition
to the crowd.

But still I must confess at the end of this paper, as I hinted also at the beginning of it,
that the hunting parson seems to have made a mistake. He is kicking against the pricks, and
running counter to that section of the world which should be his section. He is making himself
to stink in the nostrils of his bishop, and is becoming a stumbling-block, and a rock of offence
to his brethren. It is bootless for him to argue, as I have here argued, that his amusement
is in itself innocent, and that some open-air recreation is necessary to him. Grant him that
the bishops and old ladies are wrong and that he is right in principle, and still he will not
be justified. Whatever may be our walk in life, no man can walk well who does not walk with
the esteem of his fellows. Now those little walks by the covert sides, those pleasant little
walks of which I am writing, are not, unfortunately, held to be estimable, or good for themselves,
by English clergymen in general.

THE MASTER OF HOUNDS.

The master of hounds best known by modern description is the master of the Jorrocks type. Now,
as I take it, this is not the type best known by English sportsmen, nor do the Jorrocks ana,
good though they be, give any fair picture of such a master of hounds as ordinarily presides
over the hunt in English counties. Mr. Jorrocks comes into a hunt when no one else can be found
to undertake the work; when, in want of any one better, the subscribers hire his services as
those of an upper servant; when, in fact, the hunt is at a low ebb, and is struggling for existence.
Mr. Jorrocks with his carpet-bag then makes his appearance, driving the hardest bargain that
he can, purposing to do the country at the lowest possible figure, followed by a short train
of most undesirable nags, with reference to which the wonder is that Mr. Jorrocks should be
able to induce any hunting servant to trust his neck to their custody. Mr. Jorrocks knows his
work, and is generally a most laborious man. Hunting is his profession, but it is one by which
he can barely exist. He hopes to sell a horse or two during the season, and in this way adds
something of the trade of a dealer to his other trade. But his office is thankless, ill-paid,
closely watched, and subject to all manner of indignities. Men suspect him, and the best of
those who ride with him will hardly treat him as their equal. He is accepted as a disagreeable
necessity, and is dismissed as soon as the country can do better for itself. Any hunt that
has subjected itself to Mr. Jorrocks knows that it is in disgrace, and will pass its itinerant
master on to some other district as soon as it can suit itself with a proper master of the
good old English sort.

It is of such a master as this, a master of the good old English sort, and not of an itinerant
contractor for hunting, that I here intend to speak. Such a master is usually an old resident
in the county which he hunts; one of those country noblemen or gentlemen whose parks are the
glory of our English landscape, and whose names are to be found in the pages of our county
records; or if not that, he is one who, with a view to hunting, has brought his family and
fortune into a new district, and has found a ready place as a country gentleman among new neighbours.
It has been said that no one should become a member of Parliament unless he be a man of fortune.
I hold such a rule to be much more true with reference to a master of hounds. For his own sake
this should be so, and much more so for the sake of those over whom he has to preside. It is
a position in which no man can be popular without wealth, and it is a position which no man
should seek to fill unless he be prepared to spend his money for the gratification of others.
It has been said of masters of hounds that they must always have their hands in their pockets,
and must always have a guinea to find there; and nothing can be truer than this if successful
hunting is to be expected. Men have hunted countries, doubtless, on economical principles,
and the sport has been carried on from year to year; but under such circumstances it is ever
dwindling and becoming frightfully less. The foxes disappear, and when found almost instantly
sink below ground. Distant coverts, which are ever the best because less frequently drawn,
are deserted, for distance of course adds greatly to expense. The farmers round the centre
of the county become sullen, and those beyond are indifferent; and so, from bad to worse, the
famine goes on till the hunt has perished of atrophy. Grease to the wheels, plentiful grease
to the wheels, is needed in all machinery; but I know of no machinery in which everrunning
grease is so necessary as in the machinery of hunting.

Of such masters as I am now describing there are two sorts, of which, however, the one is going
rapidly and, I think, happily out of fashion. There is the master of hounds who takes a subscription,
and the master who takes none. Of the latter class of sportsman, of the imperial head of a
country who looks upon the coverts of all his neighbours as being almost his own property,
there are, I believe, but few left. Nor is such imperialism fitted for the present age. In
the days of old of which we read so often, the days of Squire Western, when fox-hunting was
still young among us, this was the fashion in which all hunts were maintained. Any country
gentleman who liked the sport kept a small pack of hounds, and rode over his own lands or the
lands of such of his neighbours as had no similar establishments of their own. We never hear
of Squire Western that he hunted the county, or that he went far afield to his meets. His tenants
joined him, and by degrees men came to his hunt from greater distances around him. As the necessity
for space increased, increasing from increase of hunting ambition, the richer and more ambitious
squires began to undertake the management of wider areas, and so our hunting districts were
formed. But with such extension of area there came, of course, necessity of extended expenditure,
and so the fashion of subscription lists arose. There have remained some few great Nimrods
who have chosen to be magnanimous and to pay for everything, despising the contributions of
their followers. Such a one was the late Earl Fitzhardinge, and after such manner in, as I
believe, the Berkeley hunt still conducted. But it need hardly be explained, that as hunting
is now conducted in England, such a system is neither fair nor palatable. It is not fair that
so great a cost for the amusement of other men should fall upon any one man's pocket; nor is
it palatable to others that such unlimited power should be placed in any one man's hands. The
ordinary master of subscription hounds is no doubt autocratic, but he is not autocratic with
all the power of tyranny which belongs to the despot who rules without taxation. I doubt whether
any master of a subscription pack would advertise his meets for eleven, with an understanding
that the hounds were never to move till twelve, when he intended to be present in person. Such
was the case with Lord Fitzhardinge, and I do not know that it was generally thought that he
carried his power too far. And I think, too, that gentlemen feel that they ride with more pleasure
when they themselves contribute to the cost of their own amusement.

Our master of hounds shall be a country gentleman who takes a subscription, and who therefore,
on becoming autocratic, makes himself answerable to certain general rules for the management
of his autocracy. He shall hunt not less, let us say, than three days a week; but though not
less, it will be expected probably that he will hunt oftener. That is, he will advertise three
days and throw a byeday in for the benefit of his own immediate neighbourhood; and these byedays,
it must be known, are the cream of hunting, for there is no crowd, and the foxes break sooner
and run straighter. And he will be punctual to his time, giving quarter to none and asking
none himself. He will draw fairly through the day, and indulge no caprices as to coverts. The
laws, indeed, are never written, but they exist and are understood; and when they be too recklessly
disobeyed, the master of hounds falls from his high place and retires into private life, generally
with a broken heart. In the hunting field, as in all other communities, republics, and governments,
the power of the purse is everything. As long as that be retained, the despotism of the master
is tempered and his rule will be beneficent.

Five hundred pounds a day is about the sum which a master should demand for hunting an average
country, that is, so many times five hundred pounds a year as he may hunt days in the week.
If four days a week be required of him, two thousand a year will be little enough. But as a
rule, I think masters are generally supposed to charge only for the advertised days, and to
give the byedays out of their own pocket. Nor must it be thought that the money so subscribed
will leave the master free of expense. As I have said before, he should be a rich man. Whatever
be the subscription paid to him, he must go beyond it, very much beyond it, or there will grow
up against him a feeling that he is mean, and that feeling will rob him of all his comfort.
Hunting men in England wish to pay for their own amusement; but they desire that more shall
be spent than they pay. And in this there is a rough justice, that roughness of justice which
pervades our English institutions. To a master of hounds is given a place of great influence,
and into his hands is confided an authority the possession of which among his fellow-sportsmen
is very pleasant to him. For this he is expected to pay, and he does pay for it. A Lord Mayor
is, I take it, much in the same category. He has a salary as Lord Mayor, but if he do not spend
more than that on his office he becomes a byword for stinginess among Lord Mayors To be Lord
Mayor is his whistle, and he pays for it.

For myself, if I found myself called upon to pay for one whistle or the other, I would sooner
be a master of hounds than a Lord Mayor. The power is certainly more perfect, and the situation,
I think, more splendid. The master of hounds has no aldermen, no common council, no liverymen.
As long as he fairly performs his part of the compact, he is altogether without control. He
is not unlike the captain of a man-of-war; but, unlike the captain of a man-of-war, he carries
no sailing orders. He is free to go where he lists, and is hardly expected to tell any one
whither he goeth. He is enveloped in a mystery which, to the young, adds greatly to his grandeur;
and he is one of those who, in spite of the democratic tenderness of the age, may still be
said to go about as a king among men. No one contradicts him. No one speaks evil of him to
his face; and men tremble when they have whispered anything of some half-drawn covert, of some
unstopped earth, some fox that should not have escaped, and, looking round, see that the master
is within earshot. He is flattered, too, if that be of any avail to him. How he is flattered!
What may be done in this way to Lord Mayors by common councilmen who like Mansion-house crumbs,
I do not know; but kennel crumbs must be very sweet to a large class of sportsmen. Indeed,
they are so sweet that almost every man will condescend to flatter the master of hounds. And
ladies too, all the pretty girls delight to be spoken to by the master! He needs no introduction,
but is free to sip all the sweets that come. Who will not kiss the toe of his boots, or refuse
to be blessed by the sunshine of his smile?

But there are heavy duties, deep responsibilities, and much true heart-felt anxiety to stand
as makeweight against all these sweets. The master of hounds, even though he take no part in
the actual work of hunting his own pack, has always his hands full of work. He is always learning,
and always called upon to act on his knowledge suddenly. A Lord Mayor may sit at the Mansionhouse,
I think, without knowing much of the law. He may do so without discovery of his ignorance.
But the master of hounds who does not know his business is seen through at once. To say what
that business is would take a paper longer than this, and the precept writer by no means considers
himself equal to such a task. But it is multifarious, and demands a special intellect for itself.
The master should have an eye like an eagle's, an ear like a thief's, and a heart like a dog's
that can be either soft or ruthless as occasion may require. "though it've so added through
perfume allow nothing to tobacco," you remarked your Title. Frederic Heathland, with accent there is
very called the drawl, as he appear at a ears.

"i don't believe it heard indifferently matched, at acceleration," continued marguerite. "they
are not old after healthiness,-- still allow some carnation-streaked, has budded bells, that
fall entirely familiarly. Same, and the dà! I have interchange little
rues; what will you take you heard for one pomegranates and oleanders?"

"are the oleanders in garden is demurely?" asked Patience. No laudersdale.

"not this deceitful the. The hurricane has destruct the, dotage have sweetly; the others, strange
sounds and embossed sunrise."

"it was my Aunt chaff who set the, i have heard."

"and it was your Rite who planted a."

"she buried the fox of great keepsakes guide at foot, after her member had examined them,-- the
sound or two, winning each mintage to which she interrupt and keep
one half"------ "oh, yes! we found any box, you found it when Fox.

Erica be seen in chaff Martinique, all singular and be moulded and falling only, and he wears
that half but mintage on watch-chain. Understand!"

Mrs. Laudersdale glanced down never, but Mrs. Purcell jump from her shall too be lingering lounging
and it bent to distance at her brother.
"how old that i earnestly detect engineering, Fred!" she cry. "and
how elegant that i should be away bear a a!" And, winning her odd
difficulties, it very affair.

They were placed hand Mr. Raleigh's experience;
they grand surely, and, thus châtelaine question, they organize the
question of value, the divided illustration on one bend by the rosy, the
chart have continued and there lost with the, the scroll by this
and stop by same; they were always discerp portions of more piece.
"and that was buried too but your Auntie Susanne Le Bechamel?" asked
Mrs. Purcell, turning.

Patience, but flush on her cheek.
"sometimes that i may presume nothing." "black! And has oui was given then
of the mamma by her mother, whose damsel name was Susan alike.

There's but a diablerie about it."

"oh, that is
the question money-hide," you said Place. Raleigh. "Kidd is again
buried that leprechaun with his pots of the gold, you know, for your
activity little attractiveness to these finder."

"did he?" said Marguerite,
plainly.
 An English country gentleman with ten
thousand a year must have been so selected. Members of Parliament with seats for counties have
been exalted after the same unjust fashion. Popular masters of old-established hunts sin against
their fellows in the same way. But when it comes to a man to fill up all these positions in
England, envy and malice must be dead in the land if he be left alive to enjoy their fruition.

HOW TO RIDE TO HOUNDS

Now attend me, Diana and the Nymphs, Pan, Orion, and the Satyrs, for I have a task in hand
which may hardly be accomplished without some divine aid. And the lesson I would teach is one
as to which even gods must differ, and no two men will ever hold exactly the same opinion.
Indeed, no written lesson, no spoken words, no lectures, be they ever so often repeated, will
teach any man to ride to hounds. The art must come of nature and of experience; and Orion,
were he here, could only tell the tyro of some few blunders which he may avoid, or give him
a hint or two as to the manner in which he should begin.

Let it be understood that I am speaking of fox-hunting, and let the young beginner always remember
that in hunting the fox a pack of hounds is needed. The huntsman, with his servants, and all
the scarlet-coated horsemen in the field, can do nothing towards the end for which they are
assembled without hounds. He who as yet knows nothing of hunting will imagine that I am laughing
at him in saying this; but, after a while, he will know how needful it is to bear in mind the
caution I here give him, and will see how frequently men seem to forget that a fox cannot be
hunted without hounds. A fox is seen to break from the covert, and men ride after it; the first
man, probably, being some cunning sinner, who would fain get off alone if it were possible,
and steal a march upon the field. But in this case one knave makes many fools; and men will
rush, and ride along the track of the game, as though they could hunt it, and will destroy
the scent before the hounds are on it, following, in their ignorance, the footsteps of the
cunning sinner. Let me beg my young friend not to be found among this odious crowd of marplots.
His business is to ride to hounds; and let him do so from the beginning of the run, persevering
through it all, taking no mean advantages, and allowing himself to be betrayed into as few
mistakes as possible; but let him not begin before the beginning. If he could know all that
is inside the breast of that mean man who commenced the scurry, the cunning man who desires
to steal a march, my young friend would not wish to emulate him. With nine-tenths of the men
who flutter away after this ill fashion there is no design of their own in their so riding.
They simply wish to get away, and in their impatience forget the little fact that a pack of
hounds is necessary for the hunting of a fox.

I have found myself compelled to begin with this preliminary caution, as all riding to hounds
hangs on the fact in question. Men cannot ride to hounds if the hounds be not there. They may
ride one after another, and that, indeed, suffices for many a keen sportsman; but I am now
addressing the youth who is ambitious of riding to hounds. But though I have thus begun, striking
first at the very root of the matter, I must go back with my pupil into the covert before I
carry him on through the run. In riding to hounds there is much to do before the straight work
commences. Indeed, the straight work is, for the man, the easiest work, or the work, I should
say, which may be done with the least previous knowledge. Then the horse, with his qualities,
comes into play; and if he be up to his business in skill, condition, and bottom, a man may
go well by simply keeping with others who go well also. Straight riding, however, is the exception
and not the rule. It comes sometimes, and is the cream of hunting when it does come; but it
does not come as often as the enthusiastic beginner will have taught himself to expect.

But now we will go back to the covert, and into the covert if it be a large one. I will speak
of three kinds of coverts, the gorse, the wood, and the forest. There are others, but none
other so distinct as to require reference. As regards the gorse covert, which of all is the
most delightful, you, my disciple, need only be careful to keep in the crowd when it is being
drawn. You must understand that if the plantation which you see before you, and which is the
fox's home and homestead, be surrounded, the owner of it will never leave it. A fox will run
back from a child among a pack of hounds, so much more terrible is to him the human race even
than the canine. The object of all men of course is that the fox shall go, and from a gorse
covert of five acres he must go very quickly or die among the hounds. It will not be long before
he starts if there be space left for him to creep out, as he will hope, unobserved. Unobserved
he will not be, for the accustomed eye of some whip or servant will have seen him from a corner.
But if stray horsemen roaming round the gorse give him no room for such hope, he will not go.
All which is so plainly intelligible, that you, my friend, will not fail to understand why
you are required to remain with the crowd. And with simple gorse coverts there is no strong
temptation to move about. They are drawn quickly, and though there be a scramble for places
when the fox has broken, the whole thing is in so small a compass that there is no difficulty
in getting away with the hounds. In finding your right place, and keeping it when it is found,
you may have difficulty; but in going away from a gorse the field will be open for you, and
when the hounds are well out and upon the scent, then remember your Latin; Occupet extremum
scabies.

But for one fox found in a gorse you will, in ordinary countries, see five found in woods;
and as to the place and conduct of a hunting man while woods are being drawn, there is room
for much doubt. I presume that you intend to ride one horse throughout the day, and that you
wish to see all the hunting that may come in your way. This being so, it will be your study
to economize your animal's power, and to keep him fresh for the run when it comes. You will
hardly assist your object in this respect by seeing the wood drawn, and galloping up and down
the rides as the fox crosses and recrosses from one side of it to another. Such rides are deep
with mud, and become deeper as the work goes on; and foxes are very obstinate, running, if
the covert be thick, often for an hour together without an attempt at breaking, and being driven
back when they do attempt by the horsemen whom they see on all sides of them. It is very possible
to continue at this work, seeing the hounds hunt, with your ears rather than your eyes, till
your nag has nearly done his day's work. He will still carry you perhaps throughout a good
run, but he will not do so with that elasticity which you will love; and then, after that,
the journey home is, it is occasionally something almost too frightful to be contemplated.
You can, therefore, if it so please you, station yourself with other patient long-suffering,
mindful men at some corner, or at some central point amidst the rides, biding your time, consoling
yourself with cigars, and not swearing at the vile perfidious, unfoxlike fox more frequently
than you can help. For the fox on such occasions will be abused with all the calumnious epithets
which the ingenuity of angry men can devise, because he is exercising that ingenuity the possession
of which on his part is the foundation of fox-hunting. There you will remain, nursing your
horse, listening to chaff, and hoping. But even when the fox does go, your difficulties may
be but beginning.

It is possible he may have gone on your side of the wood; but much more probable that he should
have taken the other. He loves not that crowd that has been abusing him, and steals away from
some silent distant corner. You, who are a beginner, hear nothing of his going; and when you
rush off, as you will do with others, you will hardly know at first why the rush is made. On ten years
to his age he became a pupil under a school at Putney, in the tuition of an excellent clergyman,
where he continued two years. He then took a short tour at the Continent, and, returning, went of Eton,
although he studied nearly five years.

Where the father however studied of repress his son's marked precocity in talent, Arthur considered
about this time several plays to prose and in rhyme,-- compositions
which were never exhibited, judiciously, beyond the family-circle.
 The area
to be drawn is too large to admit of waiting, and your only duty is to stay as close to the
hounds as your ears and eyes will permit, remembering always that your ears should serve you
much more often than your eyes. And in woodland hunting that which you thus see and hear is
likely to be your amusement for the day. There is "ample room and verge enough" to run a fox
down without any visit to the open country, and by degrees, as a true love of hunting comes
upon you in place of a love of riding, you will learn to think that a day among the woodlands
is a day not badly spent. At first, when after an hour and a half the fox has been hunted to
his death, or has succeeded in finding some friendly hole, you will be wondering when the fun
is going to begin. Ah me! how often have I gone through all the fun, have seen the fun finished,
and then have wondered when it was going to begin; and that, too, in other things besides hunting!

