 "Here," replied the young man, and gave it to her. "We must quickly
flee, "she said, and wrapped a small portion of the cloth from Knäulchens out so that the
luminous glow like a lantern at night darkness of her path enlighten. The peas were, as the
prince had supposed, all risen, so that they were sure not to miss the road. Heading the Virgin
told him that she once a conversation between the old and grandmother listened and learned from
it was that she was a princess, which of the old boy her parents have lost with cunning. The
prince certainly knew the facts better, but said nothing and was just very glad that he had
managed to free the poor girl. Sun want to hikers with a good range back down when it started
to have days.

The old boy woke up late in the morning, rubbing his eyes long until sleep fell off, then he
gloated in advance at the thought that he would consume the two soon. After he had waited a long
time for them, he said to himself: "You are probably not yet ! With her wedding State finished
"When it yet but the wait was too long, he cried," servant and servant, he! Where are you? "Cursing
and screaming, he repeated the call for some time but neither slave nor servant could be seen.
Finally he climbed out of bed and angry went to look for the laggards. But he found the house
deserted, and also noticed that these Night, the deposits were left untouched. Now he rushed
into the barn ... when he here killed the calf and the Zauberknäulchen was stolen, he understood
everything. He swore, that everything was black, quickly opened the third ghost house and sent
his assistants out to search for the fugitives. "Bring them to me as you find them, I must
get hold of their be, "So said the old fellow and his scattered spirits like the wind.

The refugees were currently in a large area when the girl stopped the step and said: "It's not everything,
as it should be. The Knäulchen moving in my hand, certainly we are persecuted, "When they saw
behind them, they saw a black cloud, which was approaching at high speed. The girl turned
the Knäulchen three times in the Hand around and said:

    Knäulchen "Hear, hear Knäulchen!
    Would like to immediately stream,
    My companion also for fish! "

Both were instantly transformed. The girl ran a little brook there, and the prince as a little
fish swam in the water. The spirits rushed past, turned around after a while, and flew home again,
but they left untouched streams and fish. As soon as the pursuers were gone, the creek turned
into a girl again and made the fish to Youth, and then they continued
their journey in human form.

When the spirits came back tired and empty-handed, they asked the old fellow, if they would
have noticed when searching for anything special? ! "Nothing" was the answer: "only a Stream flowed
in the plane, and a single fish was swimming in it. "Roared the Furious Old: "fools. They were
the ones they were, yes, "he quickly tore the doors of the fifth
Stall on, let out the spirits and ordered them to drink of the brook
water and the little fish to catch.

The spirits flew away like the wind from.

Our hikers were approaching the edge of a forest, just as was the Girl
and said: "It is not everything as it should be. The Knäulchen moves back
in my hand. "As they
    looked around, see her
    again a cloud in the sky, darker
    than the first and with red edges.

Change both of us all: I am a wild rose bush, Him to the flower on the bush. "

Instantly they were transformed. From the girl was a wild rose bush, and the Young man hung a rose
on the floor. Attracted the spirits rushing out of them, and returned only for a good while back
to, because they had found neither fish nor brook, took care it is
not the rose bush.

As soon as the pursuers had passed, turned shrub and flower again in girls and young man,
who quickly rushed to the short rest on.

"Have you found it," asked the old man as he saw his companions return panting. "No," answered
the leader of the spirits. "We neither brook nor fish found in the Plane. "Have you seen the move because
otherwise nothing special?" Went to the old man. The leader replied: "Close to the edge of the
forest was a wild rosebush in the hung a rose." Fools, "cried the old man," that they were yes,
yes they were! "He closed out the seventh Stable, and sent his most powerful spirits, to locate
it.

"Bring them to me as you finds them, dead or alive! I must get hold of her. Tear the damn rose
bush with the roots out and take with everything that you regurgitates strange. "As the storm
flew off the spirits.

The refugees were resting just under the shade of a forest, and strengthened
the weary limbs by food and drink.

    Suddenly the girl cried. "Everything
    is not as it should be, the Knäulchen
    wants to force from my bosom.

Certainly one follows us again, and the danger is close, but the forest hides us our enemies.
"Then she took the Knäulchen from his bosom, turned it around three times in the hand and said:

Knäulchen
"Hear, hear Knäulchen! Make me immediately to the breeze, The companion to my Mücklein! "

Both
were instantly transformed. The girl broke out in air, the king's son floating in it as Mücklein.
The crowd roared mighty spirits like a storm over them, and returned after some time to get
back because they have neither a rose bush, or anything else Strange things were found. But no
sooner were the spirits over, turned the breeze back into the girl,
and made the mosquito the youth.

"Now we must hurry," cried the Holdchen, "before the old man himself comes to look for - which
is us in every transformation . Recognize "

They ran forward now for a great distance until they reached the dark
passage, in which they ascended freely in the bright glow of the Knäulchens.

    Exhausted, breathless, and came at
    last major of the stone. Here the
    Knäulchen was again rotated three times, the wise maiden said:

Knäulchen
"Hear, hear Knäulchen!

Let the stone lift up to A door getting ready! "

Immediately be lifted away the stone, and they were happy to be back on Earth. "God be ! You, "exclaimed
the girl," we are saved. Here is what the old boy no more power about us, and before his list
we do our guard. But now, my friend, we must part. You go to your parents, and I will visit
the mine. "-" By no means, "replied the prince: "I can no longer be separated from you, you must come
with me and my are female. You have to endure suffering days with me, so it's fair that you
now happy days with me part.

"Although the girl resisted at first, but finally she went to the Youth.

In the forest they met a woodcutter, from which they learned that the palace, as in the whole
Land, great sorrow to reign over the incomprehensible disappearance of the king's son, from the
for years had lost all trace. With the help of the girl managed Zauberknäulchens the returning
son his former clothes again so that he could appear before his father.

But she herself was temporarily back in a peasant's hut, to the prince with all his father
had discussed.

But the old king was divorced before the arrival of his son, then: the grief over the loss of her only
son had accelerated his end. Even on his deathbed He had regretted his reckless promises and
his betrayal that he the old guy a poor innocent girl handed, for which God punished him by the
loss of son have. The prince wept, as befits a good son, the death of his father and had him
buried with great honors. He mourned for three days without food and drink to to take. On the
fourth morning, however, he showed himself to the people as the new ruler, assembled his council, and
told them what wonderful things he in the old boys Structure have
seen and endured, forgot to tell not, as the wise virgin's life-saver
become.

As the council called in unison, "You have to be your wife and our queen."

When the young king was now opened to collect his bride, he was surprised very much when he
the maiden in the royal splendor entgegenkam.

With the help of Zauberknäulchens she had everything necessary has procured, wherefore also
believed the whole country, that she the daughter of an immensely
rich king, and had come from distant lands.

Then the wedding was designed which lasted four weeks, and they lived happily ever after that
still many loving year.

[Footnote 69: Is probably the same as the mythical Kungla landing. S. d. Note 2, p. 102, for Fairy-8,
the fox. L.]

[Footnote 70: Külimit is a Getreidemaß of different sizes. The Reval body Loof of three Külimit
is something less than a quarter bushel Prussian. L.]

[Footnote 71: The main features of this fanciful description can be
found in Kalewipoëg = X = 378 ff cf = with = XIII, 491 ff There, too,
seem on the road to the apartment of hell Spirit neither sun nor moon
and the stars - only by the torches on either side of hell Thors goes
from a dull glow, who heads the new arrivals.

L.]

[Footnote 72: reminiscence from the Kalewipoëg = = XIII, 401 ff, where the Kalewsohn on the
Cave entrance to hell boiling kettle information is imparted. Initial costs of the Horned,
then the old mother, then come turn dog and cat, the rest is divided
cooks and servants.

L.]

[Footnote 73: The one in the underworld detained three sisters told
the Kalewsohn that the horned one is Base hell bitch, his grandmother,
the white mare.

Kalewipoëg = = XIV, 428th - On a white horse of the Kalewsohn sits as a Hell Guard, ibid .=
= = = XX, 1005. See a communicated by Russwurm Kalews death of legend. Russwurm announcements,
and from Hapsal sw Reval 1861st P. 9-10. L.]

[Footnote 74: See the Glowing making the artificial hand and proffering them to the Witch in the
doors lock, 54 in the story of Schnellfuß, Flink hand and a sharp eye, p. L.]

15. Rõugatajas daughter.

There once was before time in a wide glade of the old Rõugataja [75] with his Wife. They also
had a daughter that does not come naturally in nature to the world
was nevertheless strove the mother, they raise the type of human children
to later to get a son.

There was talk that the girl, so much of it visible was, was probably human skin, but that under
the guise fir bark instead of the skin Body covered. Nevertheless, the mother was hoping to get
them in time to the man Wherefore, and sent the girl everywhere among the people in the villages
where only one form entertainer or treat occurred. The daughter of beautiful clothes, many
twisted pearl necklaces, necklaces of gold coins, large brooch and silk ribbons stood the young
lads well in the eyes, but still not free, they moved into the house. The boys laughed and sneered:
up nice and smooth, rough as below toad skin.

So now the little daughter at home, not least of mildew as old maid, the mother sought prepare
for a witch mother and had help from her a mysterious potion that, once a bachelor suddenly it
cost him infallible operation to trace the girl, he might do it or not. The mother gave the
old witch with a little bundle armpit hair together with other secrets of her daughter, which
the witch the stimulant for the boys should prepare. When the miracle potion was ready, the
witch said: "From the seven drops of wet, instilled into food or drink, deceive any fellow who
does it. "

After that was at the court of Rõugataja done a great guest banquet, to which of all sides
were combined amounts requested but particularly numerous bachelors, so that the Evening from
the crowd one could choose the same, the above all others to their liking would be. When the
feast was already two days now underway, was the daughter of her mother a young man she is
very much longed for consort. The wily mother that secretly seven drops of magic potion into a
cake and gave him to eat the boy, whereupon the poor fellow was nowhere to his staying, but,
as the kitten at the straw, the daughter had to run after Rõugataja's, otherwise it will neither
day nor night was quiet. Soon later he appeared as a suitor, and his spirit was kindly accepted.
A few weeks later, a magnificent wedding feast served, so that even
children and grandchildren the splendor and glory imaginary.

But what that did everything? As the young couple in the evening the chamber was performed in
order to go to bed, the groom was under the covers as much Weird that it curdled the blood in
the heart, the same night he took to flight and let the young woman returned as a widow. Mother
and daughter waited probably for some time, that the love potion would Herlocker the witch mother
the young man again, but who do not came, was leaked to the groom. As another week had passed, and
the man nevertheless forthcoming, however, doubts began to stir in them. At last came the news
that the escaped Husband had married another woman, and so took her for an end to waiting and
hoping.

A year later heard the old woman Rõugataja that her former son-in woman a boy was born. Since attracted
a bad stop her heart that she never more rest took place, was up with the help of the Witch
of the child's mother into a Wärwolf. Then managed they secretly her daughter instead of the
mother to bed. But as the daughter no breast had, as women have otherwise, she could not suckle
the child. True, she poured milk in the artificially Bork shaped chest, but she took the child
in your mouth, but cried day and night from hunger, that the hue was no end. While there were
children inside Bader Thränenstillerinnen and brought together from near and far, but what good
could it? The child never stopped screaming. One day the father said in an angry courage:
"Carry the screamer I can not bear his cries for more ": from the office, or he blows my ears.
The nurse went out with the child who came to the cries of a conical Busch, Wolf tore out, the
nurse the child by force, but that neither she nor the child a mischief, but neatly put the
baby at the breast and nursed it. When the Child was asleep to sweet, the nurse brought it
home and put it in the Cradle, where it lay until the next day quietly. The nurse had announced
nothing of the Incident with the wolf, but went the following day to the field, where all quite
so came to pass, as the day before. In this case the nurse was in a good mood, because she had
now easy and also the father of the child in his life had again become happy, because no cry in
the house, although the woman was still seriously ill in bed and was pretending not stir hand
or foot to. And when the third day the nurse went back to the child
in search of his nurse, said the wolf.

"I do not happen every day in public's free come to suckle the child. If you bring it all
morning but the alder bushes at the Ukkofelsen, I will suck it, but you have to, so long as
I suckle on the edge of the bush, keep watch, Lest anyone to suddenly come and see, as I nurse
the baby. And you yourself must not rather come to the child, until I call you. "The nurse that,
given as was, and the thing went on for over a week excellent; the child grew rapidly, slept
quietly without shouting, and awoke from sleep with a friendly smiling face.

One day the nurse seemed to the suckling of the wolf to take too long, and the prohibition passing
over, she went to spy secretly, which would probably make the nurse
and the child. A wonderful thing it was for sure, what she saw there.
On Ukkofels sat a young naked Woman, the child on her lap, which she
tenderly stroked and rocked in her arms. Finally she took a wolf skin
from the rocks, slipped into it and then called the nurse that she
came to take the child. When the nurse three days after the series
of this wonderful Säugung the child had watched, she could keep at
home is no longer my secret, but that the father of all known what
had been done daily with the child, both by the suckling the wolf,
and the shape of the woman who had slipped out of the wolf skin.
(6)  And after all, he had not long to wait, for, whether Mr. Harry Locke died in the interval,
or was wearied, he too, into giving permission, five months after the date of the letter last
quoted, "Mrs. Anne Locke, Harry her son, and Anne her daughter, and Katherine her maid," arrived
in that perfect school of Christ, the Presbyterian paradise, Geneva. 

A more internal reason of confidence is that the new facility in substantial improvement and expansion
of the whole, has received the principle of the older and therefore is only a continuation is the
same. And it is remarkable that this fact is characteristic and excellent the new facility represents.

By
the academic year is ending in the first year and the history of
our institution in the same the story of their creation, so is the
thought of their whole plan and purpose to obvious as we from him,
and even to individual occurrences of the same attention would like
addressed.

Because the thing itself is only just become so busy or their Substance, the curiosity and meditative
reflection. The individual is but part of the public display is known, in part, as well as further
details of what and how and how many Students this year have been taught is communicated to the public
in the printed Schuelerkatalog mentioned. It should allow me, therefore, the high presence of
Your Excellency and this highly respected Assembly to stick to the principle of our institute
and his relationship and its guidelines and they provide some general sense of their thoughts, so
far as the dissipative Overactivity, which my office brought in this particular time points to collect
me allowed.

The spirit and purpose of our institution is to prepare students for scholarly study, namely a
Preparation, which is built upon the foundation of the Greeks and Romans. For several millennia
this is the floor, stood on all the culture from which they hervorgesprosst
and which it has been in constant connection.

 Organizations such as the natural, plant and animals
that wrest the severity, but this element of their nature can not leave; then all art and science
that has grown out of the ground, and although independent practice in the become, it has not exempted
by the memory of those older formation. How Anteus its forces by the touch of mother earth
renewed, then each new boom and affirmation of science and education, to the light from the return
to antiquity lifted.

As important, however, the preservation of this land is so essential is the modification of the ratio,
in which he has previously stood. If the insight into the inadequacy, Adverse old Principles
and institutions at all and thus their related previous education purposes and educational resources
occurs, it is the thought that presents itself first on the surface, the complete abolition and elimination
of it. But the sublime wisdom of the government, about this slightly translucent help, fulfilled
in the most truthful way the need of the time the fact that the old ones into a new relationship
to the whole set, and thus the essence receives them as much as they changed and renewed.

I just need a few words to the known position to remember what the learning the Latin language
had previously, that the same not only for a moment of the learned Study was considered, but the
most essential part of it accounted for and the only higher education resources was at which they presented
was that not the general, quite elementary wanted to stop lessons, that for the acquisition of
other skills, which for bourgeois life or useful in and of themselves are of value, hardly
the express stations were made, but on the whole the opportunity to make over the alder that language
was whether some of them and how much it anflog - that those skills in part for a special
art, were not also for an educational resources, mostly in those shell were wrapped.

The general voice was raised against that wretched become Latin learning,
and it rose especially the feeling that a people can not be regarded
as formed, which is not all the treasures of science in his own language
to express and be in it with each Content can move freely.

This intimacy with which the language of our own angehoert missing the knowledge that we possess
only in a strange, they are by a partition of separated us, the spirit which they can not truly
be indigenous.

This point of view, the bad, often to the patency mechanism sinking down methods, the failed
acquisition of many important skills and mental skills has gradually
the knowledge of the Latin language of their claims, as the principal
science to apply, and their long alleged dignity, and almost universal
means of education ausschlieslich to be discontinued.

She has stopped to be regarded as an end, and this spiritual Employment, however, has called objects,
and below normal daily, sensual things leave no educational materials are capable of over herself
conversant'll have to see. Without contrasts in this and the other provisions in their exaggerations
or Outside enter into a collision, it is sufficient here to rejoice the wise relationship, which our very
highest government has set herein.
 L.]

16. The Mermaid

were in the old happy time on earth is a lot better people than now, so let them the heavenly
Father will also apparently be some miracle that today 'to light either all remain hidden,
or appear only rarely even a lucky child.

Although the birds sing in the old way, and the animals share their sounds off, but unfortunately
we understand their language, and what they tell us is neither teaching nor benefit.

Wiek lived in the times before on the beach a beautiful Mermaid, which people often showed, even
my grandfather's cousin, who grew up in this area, they sometimes had to see a stone sitting,
but the lad had not dared to approach. The Virgin appeared in many forms, sometimes as a filling
or heifer, and then again more than an animal; many an evening they
mingled with the children, and left it like that, with her played,
that the little boy sat on her back - then she was suddenly under
the earth has fallen!

Like the old people told of the time, could the Virgin in the old days, almost every beautiful summer
evening on the sea shore to see where they are sitting on a stone, her long blond Hair with
golden hair straightened, and such beautiful songs sang that the audience hinschmolz the heart.
The convergence of people but they would not tolerate, but vanished from their sight, or escaped
into the sea, where they rocked a swan on the waves.

Why are they against the people fled, and no longer had the confidence to them earlier, what
we want now the more . Report

In the old days, long before the Swedish period, lived on the shore of Wiek a wealthy farmer with his
wife and four sons, their daily sustenance, they won over the lake as the Arable from, because
the fishing was in its time even blessed. Her youngest son was from an early age in all things
other than his brothers, he avoided the society of men, strolled around the seashore and in
the forest, talking to himself, with the birds or Wind and waves, but when he came to the people,
he opened his mouth, not much, but was like a dream. When the storms in the fall of the sea raged
and the waves are high as a house thürmten and broke in foam on the shore, it was the boy
at home, no peace, He ran like mad, often half naked, to the beach. Wind and weather are afraid
hardy Body does not. He jumped into the boat, grabbed the oars and drove like a wild goose,
on the crest of the raging waves far out to sea without his daring him ever Risk would have brought.
In the morning when the storm had abated, he was found on the seashore in sweet sleep. They
sent him somewhere to get to a store, for example, in the summer to herd the cattle, or to take
other small jobs, he made his parents only Annoyance. He flung himself down in the shade of a
bush, ignoring the animals, the dispersed, meadows and grain fields entered, and also partly
proceeded, so that to do the brothers had hours until they get hold of the animals were lost
again. Probably the father had left the boy's penis feel bitter enough, but that is not affected
more, as water poured into a goose. When the boy grew up to be a youth, went it no better, no work
flourished under his translucent hands, he smashed and broke Mattet
the implement, the work for animals, and created nothing but law. The Mann
concluded immediately that it was not here could go with the right things, he forbade the nurse
say the secret to any one on, and even ran a famous wise man, to seek advice and assistance.

The wise man said, as he had heard the story: "There seems to be a wicked witch work not to put
behind what I am able to clarify all at once, but we must try to gain by cunning wolf skin and destroy,
then we'll see what kind of a fraud is committed. "Then he ordered the man, at night the red
hot Ukkofels to do so when the wolf skin would again raise the rock, they scorch and would be
made to wear inappropriate. The man led the next day, when the child Säugerin had retreated
into the forest, a pair of load of wood to the rock side and up the same, and then lit at night on
the tree, causing the red glow was Ukkofels how Glühsteine a Badstubenofens. Then, when approached
the time when the child Säugerin used to come, admitted he fires and ashes aside, and even slipped
behind the bushes in a hiding where he could see everything without being seen. On the child's
cries came the she-wolf called out of the woods, took the nurse from the child, and then put
it as long as the grass, until they had removed the wolf skin and thrown on the rocky edge. Then
she took the child on her lap and began to suckle. The sharper the man looked at the nursing
mother, the more known his face and figure were of women. Yes - he recognized the Säugerin
the child's Understand woman and now, wherefore the woman still sitting at home in the dark room.
He now jumped out of the bushes and ran to the woman. This cried out in terror, put the child
in the grass and wanted to take back their wolf skin and put the Rock, but the skin was all
burnt, and only a shriveled nachgeblieben end of it.
 Last is the God Rõugataja (like Knecht Ruprecht) to bugbear distorted,
with which we frighten the children and appeased. - The name, which in the form = = Raugutaja
occurs seems, with the Finnish rye or seed God Ronkoteus = = . Zusammenzuhängen
 

Second, the study of science and the acquisition of higher mental and useful Skills in their independence
from the old literature, in a separate sister institution get their full resources.
