The Baal Shem spent the Sabbath in the capital; and on Sunday he was escorted out of the town
with a great multitude doing him honor. And afterwards it was found that all the sick people,
whose names happened to be scribbled by their relatives on the grave-stone which his robe had
brushed, recovered. Nor could this be entirely owing to the merits of him who lay below, pious
man though he was.

On the Tuesday night the Baal Shem and his disciples came to an inn, where he found the host
sitting sadly in a room ablaze festally with countless candles and crowded with little boys,
rocking themselves to and fro with prayer.

"Can we lodge here for the night?" asked the Baal Shem.

"Nay," answered the host dejectedly.

"Why art thou sad? Perchance I can help thee," said the Baal Shem.

"To-night, as thou seest, is watch-night," said the man; "for to-morrow my latest-born is to
be circumcised. This is my fifth child, and all the others have died suddenly at midnight,
although up to then there has been no sign of sickness. I know not why Lilith should have such
a grudge against my progeny. But so it is, the devil's mother, she kills them every one, despite
the many charms and talismans hung round my wife's bed. Every day since the birth, these children
have come to say the Shemang and the ninety-first psalm. And to-night the elders are coming
to watch and study all night. But I fear they will not cheat Lilith of her prey. Therefore
am I not in the humor to lodge strangers."

"Let the little ones go home; they are falling asleep," said the Master. "And let them tell
their fathers to stay at home in their beds. My pupils and I will watch and pray."

So said, so done. The Baal Shem told off two of his men to hold a sack open at the cradle of
the child, and he instructed the rest of his pupils to study holy law ceaselessly, and on no
account to let their eyelids close, though he himself designed to sleep. Should anything fall
into the sack the two men were to close it forthwith and then awaken him. With a final caution
to his disciples not to fall asleep, the Master withdrew to his chamber. The noblest ideas are corrupted when passing through the sieve
of vulgarity, the generous aspirations were poisoned with sediments of misery.

The degraded by exploitation, on waking, looked into the doctrines
redemptive revenge the past and being selfish, even at the cost of
their peers.

Revolutionary seed had been planted in the outcasts of the church, sleeping in a two centuries
ago. Believed to contribute to the future revolution forming men, and upon awakening his dream
was with common criminals. What a terrible disappointment! Their ideas only had helped to destroy.
Removing those sleepy brain's prejudices ignorance, superstition, the servant, had only managed
to make bold evil. Selfishness was the only passion vibrating in them. They had only learned that they
were miserable and should not be. The fate of his companions in misfortune, a great part of
humanity, miserable and sad, not interested. Leaving them in their state, improving their situation
was as it were, had little concern that the world continue as before, that the tears Pain and hunger
reigned down to ensure the comfort of the above. Sowed them their thoughts, wanting to speed up the harvest
and crops as forced and artificial grow with amazing rapidity to give but corrupt fruit, the
result of propaganda was the moral rot. Men, at last, everyone! The human beast looking their
welfare at the expense of such, perpetuate the confusion and pain for others so to enjoy the
wealth over a lifetime of about forty years! Ah, where to find to be more refined by the cult of
reason, doing good without hope of reward, sacrificing everything for human solidarity, the man-god
who embellish the future ...?

- Anda, Gabriel - still the bell-ringer - not waste time!

It's about a moment, and then to fly!

- No - Luna said firmly, out of his reverie - you will not do that, you should not do it! It
is a theft that propose to me, and my pain is great for seeing that count on me. Others go by instinct
fatal theft or corruption of soul you come to it because you I wanted
to illustrate, because I tried to open your minds to the truth ...
Oh, it's horrible ... very horrible!

- But why such a fuss, Gabriel?

Is not that a piece of wood? Who disservice seizing their jewelry? Do not rob the rich and those
who have something? Why do not we to imitate?

- For this very reason: because what you are trying to do is an imitation of evil, because it
perpetuates a Again, the system of violence and disorder, because of poverty. Why do you hate
the rich, if he does by exploiting the poor is the same as you going to do, plundering of thing
"for you" (understand it well), "for you" and not for everyone? I'm not afraid of theft, because
no I believe in the property or the sanctity of things, but because of this appropriation abominate
particular and I oppose it. What seizes want that? You say that to overcome your misery. Not
true: to be rich to enter the privileged group, to be three more of the minority individuals
who enjoy being hateful enslaving human. If all the poor of Toledo now call the doors of the
cathedral, rebels and raging, I would open way, would guide myself, I would point those jewels
that ambicionáis, I would say: "Seize them." They are drops of sweat and blood of their ancestors, represent
slave labor in the Lord's land, the brutal dispossession of the king's tax collector for magnates
and kings that precious stones could cover the idol that could open the doors of sky. That does
not belong to you three because you may be bolder, it belongs to all, as all the riches of the
earth. Men put his hand on that exists in the world is the holy book, the revolution of the
future redemption, now grab a few of that under the moral imperative is not yours, it is a crime
for law bourgeois and for me is an attack against the underprivileged, sole owners of the
existing ...

- Hush, Gabriel! - Ringer said harshly -. If I leave, talk till dawn. I do not understand, do
not want. We come to you a favor, and we go out with a sermon!

Still the boars sped on till they reached the second circle. Then they vanished. Three times
the wizard launched his boars, the flames of their jaws lighting up the gathering dusk, but
going out like blown candles at the second circle. Then said the wizard, "I have done my all."
He bowed his head. "Well, I know one glance of thine eyes will kill me. I bid life farewell."

"Nay, look up," said the Baal Shem; "had I wished to kill thee, thou wouldst long ago have
been but a handful of ashes spread over this field. But I wish to show thee that there is a
God above us. Come, lift up thine eyes to Heaven."

The wizard raised his eyes towards the celestial circle, in which the first stars were beginning
to twinkle. Then two thorns came and took out his eyes. Till his death was he blind; but he
saw that there was a God in Heaven.

V

Of Rabbi Baer I heard on my way nothing but eulogies, and his miracles were second only to
those of his Master. He was a great man in Israel, a scholar profound as few. Even the enemies
of the Chassidim--and they were many and envenomed--admitted his learning, and complained that
his defection to the sect had greatly strengthened and drawn grave disciples to this ignorant
movement. 

Mrs. Tomasa stopped him next to the garden gate one morning.

"I have news, Gabriel. I know where our crafty woman is.

I will not say more now, but prepare to help me. The day you least expect it, you will see
it in the cathedral."

He finished building the monument. A whole part of the church- from the choir to the confessional
doors- was occupied by the colorful and heavy sculpture.

The Toledo came, as was the custom, to admire the brilliant rows of lights. Legionnaires of alabaster
Romans were leaning on their spears, and there was the rich folds of fabric
cascading from the ceiling to the monument's platform.

On
Holy Thursday, Gabriel was contemplating how his work had gotten tangled
in a sea of devotees.

"He talks with angels," one told me.

"How know you that?" I said sceptically.

"He himself admits it."

"But suppose he lies!"

"What! A man who talks with angels be capable of a lie!" Its walls are in ruins
(of which there is no reason to complain) and in the midst of the rubble grow orange and pomegranate
trees to keep the poetic tradition of the Eastern world that lies there become bones and dust.
HOWEVER, is conserved in all aspect of the city Arab air, both by the structure of the streets
and all the houses, for the forms of the most remarkable monuments, the nature of manufacturing
and farming, especially the physiognomy of the race.

Cordoba is par excellence a bygone city - a sanctuary of multiple memories, but Eastern mainly. Except
for the railroad station, which makes the morrow, all encourages others to stop wandering spirit
in the region of the past. Yes, up to the high tower overlooking the great courtyard of the mosque-cathedral,
contemplate the city and its fields neighbors, the show is beautiful but sad. Each object
is an evocation. The walls in many from Roman times, do remember that Cordova was the homeland
of the two Senecas and Lucan, - as it was many centuries after Góngora (which has served as a model
for so many scribes, which not writers), de Cespedes, Zambrano and other remarkable men. Looking
at the cathedral, is recalled to its founder Abderraman, like noticing the famous bridge of
the Guadalquivir VIII century work. And if you tend your eyes on the multitude of churches and convents
populate the city and over the dark arcades of the Plaza-Mayor, recognizing the Spanish genius
has presided over the destinies of the country since the time of the reconquest in the thirteenth
century. Whenever something seal four successive civilizations more or less profoundly modified
social physiognomy. And yet, the predominant type is the more useful, more social, more industrial:
Arabic, - because no domination was so rich and so well understood necessities of life such
as Moorish. Even in the dominant vegetation of this type Córdoba. Is there some palm trees that
are truly ancient monuments. One of them passes have been planted by Mansur. Centuries have passed
over their floating plumes, and these to balance even whisper the legends of Eastern time.

Strange
city to the viewer on his first trip the terms of architecture and Moorish strategy! Cordoba
is a vast labyrinth of very narrow streets, winding, entangled, sad,
empty, paved with pebbles and bordered by a picturesque houses and
studded with balconies and trellises, and other truncated or dismantled,
and a maze of squares paltry and irregular, churches and convents,
thick walls and courtyards of desolate, surrounded by gardens and
orchards, and farms debris.

A beautiful public park, a plaza with pretension to elegance, some modern houses and one or
two newspapers, - behold what in Córdoba gives some idea of ​​modern life.
 Perhaps because our country was for the most part only a great swamp. But
often had I occasion in these walks to say, "Blessed art thou, O Lord our God, who hast such
things in Thy world." I scarcely ever saw a human creature, which somehow comforted and uplifted
me. Only once were my meditations interrupted, and that by a shout which startled me, and just
enabled me to get out of the way of an elegant, glittering carriage drawn by two white horses,
in which a stout-looking man lolled luxuriously, smoking a hookah. My prayerful mood was broken,
and I fell upon worldly thoughts of riches and ease.

On Friday night I ate with an elder of the Chassidim, who heard of my interest in his order,
but whom I could not get to understand that I was come to examine, not to accept unquestioningly.
I plied him with questions as to the ideas of his sect, but he for his part could make nothing
clear to me except the doctrine of self-annihilation in prayer, by which the devout worshipper
was absorbed into the Godhead; a doctrine from which flowed naturally the abrogation of stated
hours of prayer, since the mood of absorption could not be had at command. Sometimes, indeed,
silence was the better prayer, and this was the true explanation of the Talmudical saying:
"If speech is worth one piece of silver, silence is worth two." And this, likewise, was the
meaning of the verse in 2 Kings ch. iii. v. 15: "When the minstrel played, the spirit of God
came upon him." That is to say, when the minstrel became an instrument and uttered music, it
was because the spirit of God played upon him. So long as a man is self-active, he cannot receive
the Holy Ghost.

The text in Kings seemed to me rather wrenched from its context in the fashion already nauseous
to me in the orthodox schools, but as I had never in my life had such moments of grace as in
my mountain-walks, I expressed so hearty an acquiescence in the doctrine itself--shocking to
the orthodox mind trained in elaborate codification of the time-limits of the dawn-prayer or
the westering-service--that mine host was more persuaded than ever I meant to become a Chassid.

"There is no rite," said he reassuringly. "That you desire Perfection suffices to ensure your
reception into our order. 

His friends listened to with religious silence. We recorded deep in his thought right to welfare,
the statement contrasted cruelly with their misery, vexed by the sumptuousness of the temple.

Don
Martin, the young priest, was the only timidly opposed some objections
to the master.

You had to know if when everything was all, when the man had recognized the right to happiness,
without laws or coercion to force him to produce, would work still work a necessity, not a virtue,
as they say to embellish those who exploit them.

Gabriel said flatly the industriousness of the future. The man with no future work needs to
force him. A liveried attendant, treading with hushed footsteps, imparted to us
his own awe, and, scarcely daring to whisper, we awaited the great man. At last he appeared,
tall and majestic, in a flowing caftan of white satin, cut so as to reveal his bare breast.
His shoes were white, and even the snuff-box he toyed with was equally of the color of grace.
As I caught my first glimpse of his face, I felt it was strangely familiar, but where or when
I had seen it I could not recall, and the thought of this haunted the back of my mind throughout.

"Peace be to you," he said to each in turn. We breathed back respectful response, and took
our seats at the table. The same solemn silence reigned during the meal, which was wound up
by Kuggol (Sabbath-pudding). By this time the room was full of new-comers, who had gradually
dropped in for the levée, and who swarmed about the table, anxious for the merest crumb of
the pudding. And great was the bliss on the faces of those who succeeded in snatching a morsel,
as though it secured them Paradise.

When this unseemly scramble was over, the Saint--who, leaning his brow on his hands, had appeared
not to notice these proceedings--struck up a solemn hymn-tune. 

These murmurs against the bishop, that rose from the sacristy up to the cloister, irritated brother
Gabriel. The Wooden Stick, soldier stormed out of the church, he could not listen with peace to
the superior attacks. For him, everything was slander. Same as that of Don Sebastian, they had spoken
with the priests of all the previous archbishops, which did not prevent that after their deaths
they would become saints.

When Tato would be surprised repeating in the priest's office the gossips from below, threatening
him with all his authority of a boss and head of the family. Esteban would be saddened by seeing
his brother's health condition. He would praise his behavior, always prudent, acknowledging with
respectful silence the traditions of the cathedral, without a word escaping that would reveal his
past; the atmosphere of admiration that surrounded his brother made him proud, the eagerness
with which the simple people of the cloister would listen him tell
about his trips, but Gabriel's sickness embarrassed him, the certainty
that death had put its hand on him, and only for the treatments that
surrounded him were slowing down the moment of possession.

There were days in which the Silentiary would smile satisfied as he watched
Gabriel of good color and would listen with less frequency to his
painful cough.

"Boy, that's going
well," he would say cheerfully.

"Yes," Gabriel would answer. But don't
forge dreams.

I have a firm grasp. That will come at its own time.

You are who repeals it. But one day it will come more than you.

The certainty that death would end up beating him would make Esteban fire-up with anger, making
him double the care for his brother. He appealed to super feeding as an only resort, and every time
he would approach Gabriel it was with something in his hands.

"Eat this... Drink what I bring you."

"Girl," he said more shamefacedly.

"A girl!" cried the Saint, in indignant accents. "You ought to be whipped."

Immediately the company with great glee set upon the unfortunate man, tumbled him over, and
gave him an hilarious but hearty drubbing. I looked at the Saint in astonishment. His muscles
were relaxed in a grin, and I had another flash of elusive recollection of his face. But ere
I could fix it, he stopped the horse-play.

"Come, brethren," he said, "let us serve the Lord with gladness," and he trolled forth a jocund
hymn.

On the next day, with mingled feelings, I again sought the Zaddik's doorway, through which
was pouring the stream of those who had waited so long; but access to the holy man was still
not easy. In the spacious antechamber sat the Saint's scribe, at a table round which the crowd
clustered, each explaining his or her want, which the scribe scribbled upon a scrap of paper
for them to take in to the Saint. I listened to the instructions of the clamorous applicants. Want to be one that are the
coach of Sacramento?

Gabriel went to answer with pride to cure malicious: guessed his intention to annoy. But he
immediately tempted by the desire to win the Silver Stick accepting his proposal. He wanted to
surprise you by accessing your crazy idea. Besides, he thought it would be this sacrifice worthy of
the generosity that he had his brother. Since I could not help with large aid money, demonstrate
their desire to work.

The scruples of pride desvanecíanse it in the hope of bringing home a couple of pesetas.

- You do not want - the priest went on mocking tone -. You are too "green" and your dignity would
suffer much the Lord walking in the streets of Toledo.

- Well you
are wrong.

As will, I do want, but the work is too heavy for sick.

- Why is not - Don Antolin said resolution -.

At least be ten in the car, and there are strong men to see. You would go to complete the number.
And I recommend you for you to keep certain considerations.

- Well
done deal, Don Antolin.

You tell me. I am ever to earn a wage it occurs.

Had just decided his desire to leave the cathedral, passing, no one would notice him through the streets
of Toledo, who had not seen since he locked himself in the temple.

In addition, strongly tickled her vanity was the ironic situation that if he, with his rotund pasease
religious denials to the crowd who devoted the God of Catholicism.

This show made him smile. It was almost symbolic. Surely the Silver Stick rejoiced also, seeing
in it a small triumph of religion, forcing its enemies to take shoulder.

But he felt differently: in the car represent Eucharistic doubt and
denial hidden inside a cult by its outward pomp and splendor, but
empty of faith and ideals.

- We agreed, Don Antolin.

In a moment I will run into the cathedral.

They parted.

And Gabriel, after digesting milk quietly served his niece, down the temple, without telling the family
that she planned work. He feared the protest of his brother.

In the lower cloister again met Silver Stick.

He spoke with the gardener, presenting it shocked a bunch of pins with a red ribbon. He had
picked up in the holy water the door of Joy.

Every year, the day of Corpus Christi, was offering the same in the same place. A stranger
to the church spent the first year's wheat.

- Must be a fool - said the priest -. What does this lead? What does this do? If at least it was
a load of sheaves, as in the good times of the tithe ...!

And while contemptuously threw the spikes on a bed of garden, Gabriel thought to admiration atavistic
force that was revived in the Catholic church offering full gentile, tribute to the Divinity of the
first fruits of the earth fertilized by the summer.

The choir was finished and began the Mass when Gabriel entered the cathedral. The little people
commented at the door of the sacristy major incident of the party. His Eminence had no down
to the choir or attend the procession. He said he was sick, but the house smiled recalling
that the previous evening he had gone for a walk to the shrine of the Virgin de la Vega. Was that
he would not see the town hall. I was in a fit of anger against him, and showed contempt by
refusing to preside in the choir.

Gabriel walked the aisles. The gathering of the faithful was higher
than other days, but even so the cathedral seemed deserted. On the
cruise, kneeling between the choir and the altar could be seen several
nuns in starched and beaked caring touch of groups of girls dressed
black, red or blue ties, according to the school to which they belonged.
A few military Academy fat and bald, they heard mass standing, supporting
ros on his chest warrior. In this crowd scattered and distracted by
music, stood out ladies College of Noble Maidens, young barely entered
puberty or women superb across the breadth of women's development,
watching with eyes of coal, all in suits black silk lace mantilla
comb mounted on roses and colorful strokes, as aristocratic ladies
of grace manolesca breaks a Goya painting. It would be an intolerable profession," he added reflectively,
"were it not for the thought that since the poor birds have to be killed, they are better off
in my hands. However, as I was saying, I killed enough poultry to buy Passover flour; but before
I got it home the devil sent such a deluge that it was all spoilt. I took my knife again and
went out into the southern villages, and now, here am I in another quandary. I only hope I
sha'nt have to kill my horse too."

"No, I don't think he is damaged," said I, as the event proved.

When I had helped this good-natured little man and his horse to the top of the hill, he invited
me to jump into the cart if my way lay in his direction.

"I am in search of the Baal Shem," I explained.

"Indeed," said he; "he is easily to be found."

"What, do you know the Baal Shem?" I cried excitedly.

He seemed amused at my agitation. His black eyes twinkled. "Why, everybody in these parts knows
the Baal Shem," said he.

"How shall I find him, then?" I asked.

He shrugged his shoulders. "You have but to step up into my cart."

"May your strength increase!" I cried gratefully; "you are going in his direction?"

He nodded his head.

I climbed up the wheel and plumped myself down between two flour-sacks. "Is it far?" I asked.

He smiled. "Nay, if it was far I should scarcely have asked you up."

Then we both fell silent. For my part, despite the jolting of the vehicle, the lift was grateful
to my spent limbs, and the blue sky and the rustling leaves and the near prospect of at last
seeing the Baal Shem contributed to lull me into a pleasant languor. But my torpor was not
so deep as that into which my new friend appeared to fall, for though as we approached a village
another vehicle dashed towards us, my shouts and the other driver's cries only roused him in
time to escape losing a wheel.

"You must have been thinking of a knotty point of Torah (Holy Law)," said I.

"Knotty point," said he, shuddering; "it is Satan who ties those knots."

"Oho," said I, "though a Shochet, you do not seem fond of rabbinical learning."

"Where there is much study," he replied tersely, "there is little piety."

At this moment, appositely enough, we passed by the village Beth-Hamidrash, whence loud sounds
of "pilpulistic" (wire-drawn) argument issued. The driver clapped his palms over his ears.

"It is such disputants," he cried with a grimace, "who delay the redemption of Israel from exile."

"How so?" said I.

"Satan induces these Rabbis," said he, "to study only those portions of our holy literature
on which they can whet their ingenuity. But from all writings which would promote piety and
fear of God he keeps them away."

I was delighted and astonished to hear the Shochet thus deliver himself, but before I could
express my acquiescence, his attention was diverted by a pretty maiden who came along driving
a cow.

"What a glorious creature!" said he, while his eyes shone.

"Which?" said I laughingly. "The cow?"

"Both," he retorted, looking back lingeringly.

"I understand now what you mean by pious literature," I said mischievously: "the Song of Solomon."

He turned on me with strange earnestness, as if not perceiving my irony. "Ay, indeed," he cried;
"but when the Rabbis do read it, they turn it into a bloodless allegory, Jewish demons as they
are! What is the beauty of yonder maiden but an emanation from the divine? The more beautiful
the body, the more shiningly it leads us to the thought of God."

I was much impressed with this odd fellow, whom I perceived to be an original.

"But that's very dangerous doctrine," said I; "by parity of reasoning you would make the lust
of the flesh divine."

"Everything is divine," said he.

"Then feasting would be as good for the soul as fasting."

"Better," said the driver curtly.

I was disconcerted to find such Epicurean doctrines in a district where, but for my experience
of Baer, I should have expected to see the ascetic influence of the Baal Shem predominant.
"Then you're not a follower of the Baal Shem?" said I tentatively.

"No, indeed," said he, laughing.

He had got me into such sympathy with him--for there was a curious attraction about the man--that
I felt somehow that, even if the Baal Shem were an ascetic, I should still gain nothing from
him, and that my long journey would have been made in vain, the green pastures and the living
waters being still as far off as ever from my droughty soul. When you were born with the spirit ears closed and bolted to the voices of beauty,
went there in the woods immediate Madrid, chasing, gun in hand, horned cattle and yawning with
boredom during breaks from hunting, while queens are away arm in arm a bodyguard.

No one lives with impunity for three centuries the Inquisition marital contact, exercising power
as mere delegates of the Pope, under the inspiration of bishops, Jesuit confessors and monastic orders,
which left only the Spanish monarchy appearance of power, making overwhelming it theocratic republic.
The sadness of Catholicism penetrated to the core of the Spanish kings. As they sang the sources
in Versailles between marble nymphs, and the Knights of Louis XIV fluttered like butterflies,
with their colorful costumes, lewd and pagan, around the lavish beauty of their bodies, the court
of Spain, dressed in black, the rosary on his belt, I attended and conformed quemadero green
ribbon of the Holy Office, honoring with the office of marshal of the scorching of heretics. As
humanity, inflamed carnal by the breath of the Renaissance, Apollo, yielding admired worship
of Venus discovered by plowing through the rubble of the medieval catastrophes, the kind of supreme
beauty for the Spanish monarchy was executed in Judea, Christ dusty and blackish the old cathedrals,
with pale face, trunk and contracted skeletal, bony feet and shedding blood, much blood, the
liquid loved by religion when pointing the doubt when faith falters and to impose a dogma, it throws
his sword.

For this reason the Spanish monarchy has yawned sadness, the melancholy of a transmitting to
another generation. It is the quintessential Catholic royalty. If occasionally developed some
be happy and satisfied with life, was because the blue liquid maternal arteries sap injection
penetrated a commoner, as the sun's rays penetrate the patient's room.

Don Luis listened to Gabriel, accepting his words with gestures affirmative.

- Yes, we are a people governed by sadness - said the artist -. Dura still in us grim black
humor of those centuries. I have often thought how difficult it would then existence for an awakened
spirit. The Inquisition lurking words, wanting read the thoughts. The conquest of the sky as
the only ideal of life. And this conquest increasingly difficult! Had to give the money to the
Church for salvation, poverty was the perfect state. And sacrifice the welfare of the prayer
at all hours, visit daily to the temple, the life of brotherhood, the disciplines in the vault
of the parish, the voice Mortal Sin's brother interrupting sleep to remember the approach of death;
and linked to the existence of continuing concern, the uncertainty of salvation, the threat
of falling into hell for the slightest fault, not appease the God
never completely grim and vindictive.