Conceit was not Aubrey's fault.  His father was more guarded than in the case of his elder
sons, and the home atmosphere was not such as to give the boy a sense of superiority, especially
when diligently kept down by his brother.  Even the half year at Eton had not produced superciliousness,
though it had given Eton polish to the home-bred manners; it had made sisters valuable, and
awakened a desire for masculine companionship.  He did not rebel against his sister's rule;
she was nearly a mother to him, and had always been the most active president of his studies
and pursuits; and he was perfectly obedient and dutiful to her, only asserting his equality,
in imitation of Harry and Tom, by a little of the good-humoured raillery and teasing that treated
Ethel as the family butt, while she was really the family authority.

'All gone, Ethel,' he said, with a lazy smile, as Ethel mechanically, with her eyes on the
newspaper, tried all her vessels round, and found cream-jug, milk-jug, tea-pot, and urn exhausted;
'will you have in the river next?'

'What a shame!' said Ethel, awakening and laughing.  'Those are the tea-maker's snares.'

'Do send it away then,' said Aubrey, 'the urn oppresses the atmosphere.'

'Very well, I'll make a fresh brew when papa comes home, and perhaps you'll have some then.
You did not half finish to-night.'

Aubrey yawned; and after some speculation about their father's absence, Gertrude went to bed;
and Aubrey, calling himself tired, stood up, stretched every limb portentously, and said he
should go off too. Ethel looked at him anxiously, felt his hand, and asked if he were sure
he had not a cold coming on.  'You are always thinking of colds,' was all the satisfaction
she received.

'What has he been doing?' said Richard.

'That is what I was thinking.  He was about all yesterday afternoon with Leonard Ward, and
perhaps may have done something imprudent in the damp.  I never know what to do.  I can't bear
him to be a coddle; yet he is always catching cold if I let him alone.  The question is, whether
it is worse for him to run risks, or to be thinking of himself.'

'He need not be doing that,' said Richard; 'he may be thinking of your wishes and papa's.'

'Very pretty of him and you, Ritchie; but he is not three parts of a boy or man who thinks
of his womankind's wishes when there is anything spirited before him.'

'Well, I suppose one may do one's duty without being three parts of a boy,' said Richard, gravely.

'I know it is true that some of the most saintly characters have been the more spiritual because
their animal frame was less vigorous; but still it does not content me.'

'No, the higher the power, the better, of course, should the service be.  I was only putting
you in mind that there is compensation.  But I must be off.  I am sorry I cannot wait for papa.
Let me know what is the matter to-morrow, and how Aubrey is.'

Richard went; and the sisters took up their employments--Ethel writing to the New Zealand sister-in-law
her history of the wedding, Mary copying parts of a New Zealand letter for her brother, the
lieutenant in command of a gun-boat on the Chinese coast.  Those letters, whether from Norman
May or his wife, were very delightful, they were so full of a cheerful tone of trustful exertion
and resolution, though there had been perhaps more than the natural amount of disappointments.
Norman's powers were not thought of the description calculated for regular mission work, and
some of the chief aspirations of the young couple had had to be relinquished at the voice of
authority without a trial.  They had received the charge of persons as much in need of them
as unreclaimed savages, but to whom there was less apparent glory in ministering. Landowner. "JOA,
JOA, IHR, I am of your Majesty s doctrine!"

Crack-crack! At this attractor the Dialogue is sacrificed little by gradual musket-shots from the
woody tract to his left; crackle of about twelve shoot in all; which hurt nothing but some equine
s,-- had been take at the position, and excessively low. Immediately
the existence is float out, and there is a activity out of Croats; Lissa or
their environment not void hitherto, it look; and the King'mho'Entranceway
occupy grave under her sons and cannonadings.  Mrs. Rivers had been heard to say that Norman need not
have gone so far, and sacrificed so much, to obtain an under-bred English congregation; and
even the Doctor had sighed once or twice at having relinquished his favourite son to what was
dull and distasteful; but Ethel could trust that this unmurmuring acceptance of the less striking
career, might be another step in the discipline of her brother's ardent and ambitious nature.
It is a great thing to sacrifice, but a greater to consent not to sacrifice in one's own way.

Ethel sat up for her father, and Mary would not go to bed and leave her, so the two sisters
waited till they heard the latch-key.  Ethel ran out, but her father was already on the stairs,
and waved her back.

'Here is some tea.  Are you not coming, papa?--it is all here.'

'Thank you, I'll just go and take off this coat;' and he passed on to his room.

'I don't like that,' said Ethel, returning to the drawing-room, where Mary was boiling up the
kettle, and kneeling down to make some toast.

'Why, what's the matter?'

'I have never known him go and change his coat but when some infectious thing has been about.
Besides, he did not wait to let me help him off with it.'

In a few seconds the Doctor came down in his dressing-gown, and let himself be put into his
easy-chair; his two daughters waiting on him with fond assiduity, their eyes questioning his
fagged weary face, but reading there fatigue and concern that made them--rather awe-struck--bide
their time till it should suit him to speak.  Mary was afraid he would wait till she was gone;
dear old Mary, who at twenty-two never dreamt of regarding herself as on the same footing with
her three years' senior, and had her toast been browner, would have relieved them of her presence
at once.  However, her father spoke after his first long draught of tea.

'Well!  How true it is that judgments are upon us while we are marrying and giving in marriage!'

'What is it, papa?  Not the scarlatina?'

'Scarlatina, indeed!' he said contemptuously.  'Scarlet fever in the most aggravated form.
Two deaths in one house, and I am much mistaken if there will not be another before morning.'

'Who, papa?' asked Mary.

'Those wretched Martins, in Lower Pond Buildings, are the worst.  No wonder, living in voluntary
filth; but it is all over the street--will be all over the town unless there's some special
mercy on the place.'

'But how has it grown so bad,' said Ethel, 'without our having even heard of it!'

'Why--partly I take shame to myself--this business of Hector and Blanche kept Spencer and me
away last dispensary day; and partly it was that young coxcomb, Henry Ward, thought it not
worth while to trouble me about a simple epidemic.  Simple epidemic indeed!' repeated Dr. May,
changing his tone from ironical mimicry to hot indignation.  'I hope he will be gratified with
its simplicity!  I wonder how long he would have gone on if it had not laid hold on him.'

'You don't mean that he has it?'

'I do.  It will give him a practical lesson in simple epidemics.'

'And Henry Ward has it!' repeated Mary, looking so much dismayed that her father laughed, saying--

'What, Mary thinks when it comes to fevers being so audacious as to lay hold of the doctors,
it is time that they should be put a stop to.'

'He seems to have petted it and made much of it,' said Ethel; 'so no wonder!  What could have
possessed him?'

'Just this, Ethel; and it is only human nature after all.  This young lad comes down, as Master
Tom will do some day, full of his lectures and his hospitals, and is nettled and displeased
to find his father content to have Spencer or me called in the instant anything serious is
the matter.'

'But you are a physician, papa,' said Mary.

'No matter for that, to Mr. Henry I'm an old fogie, and depend upon it, if it were only the
giving a dose of salts, he would like to have the case to himself.  These poor creatures were
parish patients, and I don't mean that his treatment was amiss.  Spencer is right, it was an
atmosphere where there was no saving anyone, but if he had not been so delighted with his own
way, and I had known what was going on, I'd have got the Guardians and the Town Council and
routed out the place. Seventeen cases, and most of them the worst form!'

'But what was Mr. Ward about?

        '"Says I to myself, here's a lesson for me;
          This man's but a picture of what I shall be,"

'when Master Tom gets the upper hand of me,' returned Dr. May.  'Poor Ward, who has run to
me in all his difficulties these thirty years, didn't like it at all; but Mr. Henry was so
confident with his simple epidemic, and had got him in such order, that he durst not speak.'

'And what brought it to light at last?'

'Everything at once.  First the clerics go to see about the family where the infant died, and
report to Spencer; he comes after me, and we start to reconnoitre.  Then I am called in to
see Shearman's daughter--a very ugly case that--and coming out I meet poor Ward himself, wanting
me to see Henry, and there's the other boy sickening too.  Then I went down and saw all those
cases in the Lower Ponds, and have been running about the town ever since to try what can be
done, hunting up nurses, whom I can't get, stirring dishes of skim milk, trying to get the
funerals over to-morrow morning by daybreak. I declare I have hardly a leg to stand on.'

'Where was Dr. Spencer?'

'I've nearly quarrelled with Spencer.  Oh! he is in high feather! he will have it that the
fever rose up bodily, like Kuhleborn, out of that unhappy drain he is always worrying about,
when it is a regular case of scarlet fever, brought in by a girl at home from service; but
he will have it that his theory is proved.  Then I meant him to keep clear of it.  He has always
been liable to malaria and all that sort of thing, and has not strength for an illness.  I
told him to mind the ordinary practice for me; and what do I find him doing the next thing,
but operating upon one of the worst throats he could find!  I told him he was as bad as young
Ward; I hate his irregular practice. I'll tell you what,' he said, vindictively, as if gratified
to have what must obey him, 'you shall all go off to Cocksmoor to-morrow morning at seven o'clock.'

'You forget that we two have had it,' said Mary.

'Which of you?'

'All down to Blanche.'

'Never mind for that.  I shall have enough to do without a sick house at home.  You can perform
quarantine with Richard, and then go to Flora, if she will have you.  Well, what are you dawdling
about?  Go and pack up.'

'Papa,' said Ethel, who had been abstracted through all the latter part of the conversation,
'if you please, we had better not settle my going till to-morrow morning.'

'Come, Ethel, you have too much sense for panics.  Don't take nonsense into your head.  The
children can't have been in the way of it.'

'Stay, papa,' said Ethel, her serious face arresting the momentary impatience of fatigue and
anxiety, 'I am afraid Aubrey was a good while choosing fishing-tackle at Shearman's yesterday
with Leonard Ward; and it may be nothing, but he did seem heavy and out of order to-night;
I wish you would look at him as you go up.'

Dr. May stood still for a few moments, then gave one long gasp, made a few inquiries, and went
up to Aubrey's room.  The boy was fast asleep; but there was that about him which softened
the weary sharpness of his father's manner, and caused him to desire Ethel to look from the
window whence she could see whether the lights were out in Dr. Spencer's house.  Yes, they were.

'Never mind.  It will make no real odds, and he has had enough on his hands to-day.  The boy
will sleep quietly enough to-night, so let us all go to bed.'

'I think I can get a mattress into his room without waking him, if you will help me, Mary,'
said Ethel.

'Nonsense,' said her father, decidedly.  'Mary is not to go near him before she takes Gertrude
to Cocksmoor; and you, go to your own bed and get a night's rest while you can.'

'You won't stay up, papa.'

'I--why, it is all I can do not to fall asleep on my feet.  Good night, children.'

'He does not trust himself to think or to fear,' said Ethel.  'Too much depends on him to let
himself be unstrung.'

'But, Ethel, you will not leave, dear Aubrey.'

'I shall keep his door open and mine; but papa is right, and it will not do to waste one's
strength.  In case I should not see you before you go--'

'Oh, but, Ethel, I shall come back!  Don't, pray don't tell me to stay away.  Richard will
have to keep away for Daisy's sake, and you can't do all alone--nurse Aubrey and attend to
papa.  Say that I may come back.'

Well, Mary, I think you might,' said Ethel, after a moment's thought. 'If it were only Aubrey,
I could manage for him; but I am more anxious about papa.'

'You don't think he is going to have it?'

'Oh no, no,' said Ethel, 'he is what he calls himself, a seasoned vessel; but he will be terribly
overworked, and unhappy, and he must not come home and find no one to talk to or to look cheerful.
So, Mary, unless he gives any fresh orders, or Richard thinks it will only make things worse,
I shall be very glad of you.'

Mary had never clung to her so gratefully, nor felt so much honoured. 'Do you think he will
have it badly?' she asked timidly.

'I don't think at all about it,' said Ethel, something in her father's manner.  'If we are
to get through all this, Mary, it must not be by riding out on perhapses.  Now let us put Daisy's
things together, for she must have as little communication with home as possible.'

Ethel silently and rapidly moved about, dreading to give an interval for tremblings of heart.
Five years of family prosperity had passed, and there had been that insensible feeling of peace
and immunity from care which is strange to look back upon when one hour has drifted from smooth
water to turbid currents.  There was a sort of awe in seeing the mysterious gates of sorrow
again unclosed; yet, darling of her own as Aubrey was, Ethel's first thoughts and fears were
primarily for her father.  Grief and alarm seemed chiefly to touch her through him, and she
found herself praying above all that he might be shielded from suffering, and might be spared
a renewal of the pangs that had before wrung his heart.

By early morning every one was astir; and Gertrude, bewildered and distressed, yet rather enjoying
the fun of staying with Richard, was walking off with Mary.

Soon after, Dr. Spencer was standing by the bedside of his old patient, Aubrey, who had been
always left to his management.

'Ah, I see,' he said, with a certain tone of satisfaction, 'for once there will be a case properly
treated.  Now, Ethel, you and I will show what intelligent nursing can do.'

'I believe you are delighted,' growled Aubrey.

'So should you be, at the valuable precedent you will afford.'

'I've no notion of being experimented on to prove your theory,' said Aubrey, still ready for
lazy mischief.

For be it known that the roving-tempered Dr. Spencer had been on fire to volunteer to the Crimean
hospitals, and had unwillingly sacrificed the project, not to Dr. May's conviction that it
would be fatal in his present state of health, but to Ethel's private entreaty that he would
not add to her father's distress in the freshness of Margaret's death, and the parting with
Norman. But there is the fire leave: thus and the remainder, Friedrich should have been demureness,
and at no unseeable'Friedrich burning, we maneuver what they are doing! In specific, or all
all, is s'element vain or maneuver talent; what now is there to know? Hither is now gone up into one
fire. To fan the disposal, to be everywhere, there, fanning this reserve
where need shows: the is about s'who utility; "mannstein in a hottest
of the armageddon," that is now we at present see of him, tactic
to us differently.  The place was fairly healthy, and his 'town councillor's conservatism,' and hatred
of change, as well as the amusement of skirmishing, had always made him the champion of things
as they were; and in the present emergency the battle whether the enemy had travelled by infection,
or was the product of the Pond Buildings' miasma, was the favourite enlivenment of the disagreeing
doctors, in their brief intervals of repose in the stern conflict which they were waging with
the fever--a conflict in which they had soon to strive by themselves, for the disease not only
seized on young Ward, but on his father; and till medical assistance was sent from London,
they had the whole town on their hands, and for nearly a week lived without a night's rest.

The care of the sick was a still greater difficulty.  Though Aubrey was never in danger, and
Dr. Spencer's promise of the effects of 'intelligent nursing' was fully realized, Ethel and
Mary were so occupied by him, that it was a fearful thing to guess how it must fare with those
households where the greater number were laid low, and in want of all the comforts that could
do little.

The clergy worked to the utmost; and a letter of Mr. Wilmot's obtained the assistance of two
ladies from a nursing sisterhood, who not only worked incredible wonders with their own hands
among the poor, but made efficient nurses of rough girls and stupid old women. Dr. May, who
had at first, in his distrust of innovation, been averse to the importation--as likely to have
no effect but putting nonsense into girls' heads, and worrying the sick poor--was so entirely
conquered, that he took off his hat to them across the street, importuned them to drink tea
with his daughters, and never came home without dilating on their merits for the few minutes
that intervened between his satisfying himself about Aubrey and dropping asleep in his chair.
The only counter demonstration he reserved to himself was that he always called them 'Miss
What-d'ye-call-her,' and 'Those gems of women,' instead of Sister Katherine and Sister Frances.

CHAPTER II

Good words are silver, but good deeds are gold.--Cecil and Mary

'It has been a very good day, papa; he has enjoyed all his meals, indeed was quite ravenous.
He is asleep now, and looks as comfortable as possible,' said Ethel, five weeks after Aubrey's
illness had begun.

'Thank God for that, and all His mercy to us, Ethel;' and the long sigh, the kiss, and dewy
eyes, would have told her that there had been more to exhaust him than his twelve hours' toil,
even had she not partly known what weighed him down.

'Poor things!' she said.

'Both gone, Ethel, both! both!' and as he entered the drawing-room, he threw himself back in
his chair, and gasped with the long-restrained feeling.

'Both!' she exclaimed.  'You don't mean that Leonard--'

'No, Ethel, his mother!  Poor children, poor children!'

'Mrs. Ward!  I thought she had only been taken ill yesterday evening.'

'She only then gave way--but she never had any constitution--she was done up with nursing--nothing
to fall back on--sudden collapse and prostration--and that poor girl, called every way at once,
fancied her asleep, and took no alarm till I came in this morning and found her pulse all but
gone.  We have been pouring down stimulants all day, but there was no rousing her, and she
was gone the first.'

'And Mr. Ward--did he know it?'

'I thought so from the way he looked at me; but speech had long been lost, and that throat
was dreadful suffering.  Well, "In their death they were not divided."'

He shaded his eyes with his hand; and Ethel, leaning against his chair, could not hinder herself
from a shudder at the longing those words seemed to convey.  He felt her movement, and put
his arm round her, saying, 'No, Ethel, do not think I envy them.  I might have done so once--I
had not then learnt the meaning of the discipline of being without her--no, nor what you could
do for me, my child, my children.'

Ethel's thrill of bliss was so intense, that it gave her a sense of selfishness in indulging
personal joy at such a moment; and indeed it was true that her father had over-lived the first
pangs of change and separation, had formed new and congenial habits, saw the future hope before
him; and since poor Margaret had been at rest, had been without present anxiety, or the sight
of decay and disappointment. Her only answer was a mute smoothing of his bowed shoulders, as
she said, 'If I could be of any use or comfort to poor Averil Ward, I could go to-night.  Mary
is enough for Aubrey.'

'Not now, my dear.  She can't stir from the boy, they are giving him champagne every ten minutes;
she has the nurse, and Spencer is backwards and forwards; I think they will pull him through,
but it is a near, a very near touch.  Good, patient, unselfish boy he is too.'

'He always was a very nice boy,' said Ethel; 'I do hope he will get well.  It would be a terrible
grief to Aubrey.'

'Yes, I got Leonard to open his lips to-day by telling him that Aubrey had sent him the grapes.
I think he will get through.  I hope he will. He is a good friend for Aubrey.  So touching
it was this morning to hear him trying to ask pardon for all his faults, poor fellow--fits
of temper, and the like.'

'That is his fault, I believe,' said Ethel, 'and I always think it a wholesome one, because
it is so visible and unjustifiable, that people strive against it.  And the rest?  Was Henry
able to see his father or mother?'

'No, he can scarcely sit up in bed.  It was piteous to see him lying with his door open, listening.
He is full of warm sound feeling, poor fellow.  You would like to have heard the fervour with
which he begged me to tell his father to have no fears for the younger ones, for it should
be the most precious task of his life to do a parent's part by them.'

'Let me see, he is just of Harry's age,' said Ethel, thoughtfully, as if she had not the strongest
faith in Harry's power of supplying a parent's place.

'Well,' said her father, 'remember, a medical student is an older man than a lieutenant in
the navy.  One sees as much of the interior as the other does of the surface.  We must take
this young Ward by the hand, and mind he does not lose his father's practice.  Burdon, that
young prig that Spencer got down from London, met me at Gavin's, when I looked in there on
my way home, and came the length of Minster Street with me, asking what I thought of an opening
for a medical man--partnership with young Ward, &c.  I snubbed him so short, that I fancy I
left him thinking whether his nose was on or off his face.'

'He was rather premature.'

'I've settled him any way.  I shall do my best to keep the town clear for that lad; there's
not much more for him, as things are now, and it will be only looking close after him for a
few years, which Spencer and I can very well manage.'

'If he will let you.'

'There! that's the spitefulness of women!  Must you be casting up that little natural spirit
of independence against him after the lesson he has had?  I tell you, he has been promising
me to look on me as a father!  Poor old Ward! he was a good friend and fellow-worker.  I owe
a great deal to him.'

