A

                     SERMON

          PREACHED ON THE ANNIVERSARY

                     OF THE

              BOSTON FEMALE ASYLUM

                      FOR

               DESTITUTE ORPHANS,

              SEPTEMBER 25, 1835.

 PUBLISHED BY REQUEST OF THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

        BY JONATHAN M. WAINWRIGHT, D. D.
       Rector of Trinity Church, Boston.

                    Boston.
        DUTTON AND WENTWORTH, PRINTERS,
         Nos. 10 & 12, Exchange Street,
                     1835.

TO THE BOARD OF MANAGERS.

LADIES,

Upon your first application to me for a copy of this sermon to be printed, I respectfully declined
giving it, because it was not prepared with the slightest reference to such a result, and more
especially because it has been my uniform practice to abstain from appearing in this way before
the public, when I could with propriety do so. To your renewed request, and the reasons you
state for making it, I feel myself constrained to yield, although my own conviction in regard
both to the character of the discourse itself, and to the inexpediency of such publications,
except in very special cases, remains the same. If, however, its possession, as you imply,
can afford gratification to any one interested in your most excellent institution, I ought
not perhaps to be longer influenced by a consideration which relates merely to myself in withholding
it. I therefore commit it to you, and am,

                    With the greatest respect,

                        Your friend and servant,

                            JONA. M. WAINWRIGHT.

BOSTON, OCTOBER 6, 1835.

SERMON.

PROVERBS, XXII. 9. The
two largest, leaving Pascualet, who took refuge behind a tree whimpering, entablábase grabbed
stones and a battle in the middle of the road.

Pebbles whistled through the branches, bringing down a rain of leaves and bouncing off trunks and
slopes, dogs barking out fierce barraqueros, attracted by the noise of the fight, and women at the
doors of their homes, raised their arms to heaven, crying indignant:

-
Condenats!

Dimonis! ...

These scandals indignant Don Joaquin and made him move his inexorable
cane next day.

What about your school, temple of good breeding! ...

The fight did not end until a road went flying the whip, or left some old barracks, club in hand. The
assailants fled, was disbanded, and repentant of his achievement
at being alone, felt terrified, with the easy exchange of views of
children, in that bird who knew everything and what kept them for
et Joaquin next day.

Meanwhile, the three brothers continued their journey descalabraduras
scratching their struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to God and to
the saints see the progress as they reached their young.

That day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were bruised; was always the same:
there was no need to ignore.

But the little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called
him, was wet from head to foot, and cried, trembling with fear and
cold.

The fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and
then gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

       

Teresa laid him in his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling in his arms, holding his neck
and murmuring voice like a bleat:

- Mare! Mare! ...

The mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience!

"All that mob, young and old, had proposed ending with the family.

* * * * *

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road to Valencia
on a Thursday morning.

It was market day for animals in the river, and carried on the belt, as a thick lump, the burlap bag
with the rest of their savings.

Rained misery on the block.

All that was missing its roof that would collapse over them, crushing them all .... What people!
Where have you been! ...

The little boy getting worse, shivering with fever in the arms of his mother, who cried to all hours,
and visited twice a day by the doctor. In short, a disease that was going to cost you twelve
or fifteen hard, as they say nothing!

The eldest, Batistet, could hardly go beyond their fields. He still had his head wrapped in
rags and face cross-spanked, after the huge battle that morning said
on the road with others their age who would like him to pick up manure
in Valencia.

All fematers contour against Batistet had joined, and the poor boy could not look the road.

The
two small and did not go to school for fear of fights that should support the return.

And Rosetta, poor girl! was the one that was more sad.

The father, gloomy and severe glimpses gesture reminded him mutely
to be indifferent, because their sentences were an attack on parental
authority.

But alone, he lamented good Batiste the sadness of the poor girl. He had also been young and
knew how heavy are the pains of love.

Everything had been discovered. After the famous fight in the fountain of the Queen, the whole
garden spent several days talking about the Rosetta love with the nephew of old Tomba.

The butcher of Alboraya snorted courage against his servant. Ah, great rascal! Now understood
why he forgot his homework, which lost the afternoon wandering around the garden like a gypsy.
The master was allowed to have a girlfriend, like a man capable of maintaining it. And what bride
Good God! One had only to listen to the customers when they chatted at his desk. All said the
same thing: they were surprised that a man like him, religious, honest
and without other defects to steal something in the weight allowed
to accompany his servant to the daughter of the enemy of garden, an
evil man, which he had allegedly been in prison.

And this, in respect of the standard big-bellied, was a disgrace to their establishment, listening
to the murmurings of the gossips again enraged, threatening with the knife the timid servant,
or rebuked the Tomba to correct the rascal of his grandson.

Total: the butcher dismissed the boy and his grandfather find work in Valencia home of another
sharp, praying that no grant him freedom or even on holidays, to no more waiting on the road to
the daughter of Batiste.

Tonet went submissive, with moist eyes, as one of the sheep that had so often hauled up the knife
from his master. Never return to the garden. In the hut was the poor girl hiding in her bedroom
to moan, making efforts not to show pain to the mother, who, irritated by so many setbacks,
appeared intractable, and before the father, who spoke of it to pieces
if she was to have a boyfriend and talk to it the enemies of the contour.

The

poor Batiste, so harsh and threatening, so it hurt for all misfortune was the distress of the
poor girl, poor appetite, yellow, haggard, making efforts for being indifferent, barely sleeping,
which did not stop every morning march time at the factory, with a vagueness in telling pupils
that his thinking rolled away, I was dreaming inside at all hours.

Were they any more evil? ... Yes, there were still others. At the cabin, nor beast got rid of
the poisonous atmosphere of hatred that seemed to float on its roof. At that not trampling certainly
made him the evil eye, and so his poor Morrut, the old horse an animal that was like family,
which had dragged down by poor roads and trousseau boys in the pilgrimages of misery, he would
dribble out in the barn Again, the best accommodation during their long working life.

Behaved like honest person in the worst time when newly established family in the hut, had to plow damn
petrified by ten years of neglect, when there to make continuous trips to Valencia in search of the
rubble of demolition and old wood; when the grass was not much and
the work overwhelming.

And now that front window of the block lay a great field of fresh
grass, straight, wavy, all for him now had the table set with that
green and juicy tablecloth smelled of glory now fattened, their legs
are tapered and rounded his back knotted, died suddenly, without knowing
why, perhaps using their perfect right to rest after taking the family
afloat.

He lay on the straw one day, refusing to leave, staring with glazed eyes Bastida and yellowish did
expire on the lips of love vows and threats of indignation. It looked like a poor person Morrut;
Batiste, recalling his eyes, was often wishes to mourn. The barracks suffered a concussion, and
that unfortunately made the family to forget Pascualet poor momentarily, trembling with fever
in bed.

Batiste's wife cried.

Gentle animal that extending his nose had been coming into the world Almost all children. Still remember
it like it was yesterday, when I bought in the market Sagunto, small, dirty, full of scabs and
gore, like a smack of waste. Was a family member was leaving.

And when some nasty guys came in a car for take your horse to the "Caldera" [16], which become
the skeleton of polished bone brilliance and fertilizing compost meats, kids crying, screaming
from the door endless goodbye to poor Morrut, going away with stiff legs and head swaying, while
the mother, as if I had a horrible feeling, is cast with open arms on the sick child.

[16] place where they cremated the dead animals to use their bones.

Recalled to their children when they were introduced in the block to pull the tail Morrut the sweet
passivity which endured with all the boys games. I saw the little boy when his father put him
on the hard spine of the animal, hitting the shiny little feet flanks and screaming "arre! Arre!
"With childish babble. With the death of this poor beast Teresa thought she was going to be
left open a gap in the family where they would others.

Lord that deceive their mother painful forebodings, that was just the animal suffered which was,
that is not carried on their backs to the poor little one way to heaven, as at other times he wore
in the paths of the garden clinging to his mane, slowly, not to tear it down!

And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling
in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter
Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the
city and spent the Serranos bridge.

At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering
over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped,
running his hands over his face. I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask
to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase
of a hack that would replace the Morrut.

And since the toilet is the luxury of the poor, sat on a stone bench, waiting his turn came to
clean the beards of two weeks, sharp and tough as barbed, which blackened his face.

In the shade of tall bananas worked the orchard people hairdressers, barbers to "face the sun."
A pair of armchairs with seat and arms esparto polished by using
a stove in the pot of boiling water, towels and a razor dubious dull
color, that scraped the hard skin of the parishioners with spooky
rails, were all fortune of these outdoor facilities.

Surly boys who aspired to be young men in barbershops in the city were there their weapons first,
and while inferring tame or village heads cut da trasquilones and peeling, the master was talking
to the customers sitting on the bench of the ride, or read a newspaper
aloud to the audience, which, with the chin on both hands, listening
impassive.

Those who sat in the chair of the torments pasábanles a piece of soap stone cheeks, and rub
that rubs until rising foam.

Then came the cruel navajeo, cuts, that stood firmly on the client's face stained with blood.
A little more sounded beyond the big scissors in constant motion, passing and reviewing on the round
presumed head of a strapping young man, who was shorn as a black
poodle and the height of style: long matted hair on the front and
back half a head of closely cropped.

Batiste was shaved quite lucky, as I listened, sunk in the Esparto chair and with closed eyes,
reading the 'teacher', made with nasal, monotonous voice, their commentaries and glosses man skilled
in public affairs. No more than three scratches removed and a cut on his ear. Other times he
had been more. Gave his half-real, and got into the city Serranos by the door.

Two hours later he came out again, and sat on the stone bench, from
the group of parishioners, to hear again the teacher while the market
was time.

The owners had just paying the piquillo he needed to buy the horse. Now important was to have
a good eye to choose from, the serenity to not be fooled by the cunning gypsies passing before him with
their cattle, then a ramp down into the riverbed.

Eleven. The market should be the most animated. Batiste came to the confused noise a hotbed invisible
climbed the neighing and voices from the bottom of the channel. Doubted stood still, as you
want to delay the moment of an important resolution, and finally decided to descend to the market.

The
bed of the Turia was, as always, almost dry. Some streaks of water, breaks the dams and reservoirs
that cool the meadow, meandering curved or islands in a dusty floor, burning, uneven, which looked
more like African desert riverbed.

At such times he was all white with the sun, without the slightest taint of shadow.

The cars of the peasants, with their clear awnings, formed a camp in the center of channel, and
along the banks of stone set in a row, were the animals at the sale: coceadoras black mules, with
bright red shells and legs agitated by nervous restlessness; Dobbins,
strong but sad, like serfs condemned to eternal fatigue, looking glassy
eyes to all that passed, as if they guessed the new tyrant, and small
and vivacious ponies, injuring the dust with their hooves, pulling
the tether that kept them tied the wall.

Next to the down ramp were the culled animals: donkeys, no ears, dirty hair and disgusting pustules
sad horses, whose skin seemed to pierced with angled the stark skeleton,
mules short-sighted, with neck stork all the misery of the market,
the castaways of work, which, with leather lined up sticks, stomach
contracted and excoriation Swollen bellied flies green and awaited
the arrival of the contractor's bullfighting or the beggar, who would
know still use them.

Beside streams in the middle of the channel and the banks that had moisture covered with a tiny
layer of grass, herds of horses trotted untamed, open air, luenga mane, tail dragging on the
ground. Beyond the bridges, through its arches stone, could be seen
herds of bulls, with the legs drawn up, quietly ruminating grass threw
them pastors, or walking lazily through the parched ground, feeling
the nostalgia of fresh pastures, standing fiercely every time the
youngsters are whistle from the parapets.

The animation market is
growing. Around each horse was adjusting the sale formed gesticulating
and chattering groups of peasants in shirtsleeves, with a stick ash
in the right hand. Roma, dry, tan, long and curved rails, sheepskin
with patches and hair cap, beneath which his eyes shone with a glow
of fever, spoke constantly, throwing his breath in his face as if
to Buyer hypnotize.

- But you look well in the pony. Fix in your
lines ... If it looks like a lady!

And the farmer, insensible to
the mellows Roma, self-enclosed, pensive and uncertain, looked down,
looked upon the beast, he scratched his neck, and just saying to power
stubborn:

- Well, they do not donate month [17].

[17] - Well, it
does not give anymore.

To make workplaces and solemnize the sales
we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman who sold
pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky content of
half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc. The scriptures are filled with motives, inducements,
promises, encouragements, addressed to every generous, nay to every interested feeling. God
has a right to all we have, for he only lends us all, yet he condescends to receive a portion
from us again, as if a favor were conferred upon himself, and he has put in his stead the sick,
the naked, the hungry and the afflicted, and says, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.[13] And not only does he condescend
thus to accept our charitable deeds, but gives them his blessing and reward. Blessed is he
that considereth the poor; the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble.[14]

While then, my brethren, we have every encouragement to persevere in works of beneficence,
though they may be accompanied with labor, and be repaid with human ingratitude, let us be
duly thankful that there are other occasions on which we can discharge duty, and at the same
time open a source of the purest and noblest gratification. Yes--painful as may be some of
those walks of charity which the christian must pursue, and revolting as are some of those
objects which he must encounter, we know that there are paths for the benevolent where their
footsteps fall pleasantly, and a refreshing fragrance surrounds them, and smiling objects meet
them, and satisfactions the most delightful, urge them forward. We can sometimes give, and
pleasure shall accompany the act, and unmingled good shall follow it, and gratitude shall reward
it, and God himself shall crown it with the brightest wreath. Say I not true when I speak of
giving to the destitute orphan? Is not this a deed of unalloyed satisfaction, is it not one
upon which the bountiful eye may look to fill the soul with an unrestrained generosity? Here
is required no cold calculation of the amount of good to be effected, here is no room for anxious
doubt concerning the result of the benevolent act.

Asylums for the destitute orphan are among those institutions which even the severe, and in
some respects, the cold and selfish principles of Political Economy cannot justly disapprove
of. To the truly benevolent, and to the pious christian, they have always been, and must ever
be, objects of deep interest. Other charities may be perverted in some degree to evil purposes.
Their effect may be to encourage idle and dissolute conduct, and to increase the evil they
would remedy, by operating as a bounty upon pauperism. To some extent this has been the effect
of alms-houses, and of many of those societies which, with the best intentions, have been administered
to adult persons. We acknowledge, indeed, that protection, shelter, and subsistence for the
aged and decrepit, who are past the ability to labor for their own daily food, medicine and
medical advice, and in cases of absolute poverty, the retreat of the hospital, are real charities,
such as suffering humanity requires, and pure benevolence will provide for. But in other cases,
it is questionable whether relief can be given without ill effects, except it be accompanied
with the opportunity and the necessity for bodily labor. I am not, however, upon the present
occasion to discuss the general question of charitable societies. It is one of great importance,
and one which we think is not yet generally understood. Much light has recently been thrown
upon it, especially in this city, by the active and intelligent exertions and experiments of
some of our fellow citizens,--and it should continue to occupy the serious attention of our
civil authorities, and of every benevolent and public spirited person.

But who can doubt about the expediency, as well as the mercy and christian obligation, of fostering
the poor and helpless orphan, whose natural protectors have been removed by the Providence
of God? Naked, we must clothe them, for their helplessness cannot provide for their own covering;
hungry, we must feed them, for they appeal to us with the moaning cry and innocent tears of
childhood; strangers in this world, but just entered upon it, and left without a home to receive,
or a parent's fostering care to protect them, we must take them in. We cannot resist or evade
such an appeal, we know that it comes from a guileless petitioner, whose distresses no vice
of its own has produced, and no exertions of its own can relieve. Should any one of you in
your walks through our city during its inclement winter behold a child almost naked, shivering
with cold and fainting with hunger, and did you learn that it had wandered unprotected from
the home where its only surviving parent had just expired in all the wretchedness of poverty
and disease, and finding its mother's voice silent, her hands that had cherished it cold, and
her eyes closed, the little one had gone forth weeping and alone, would any of you refuse it
a home, and food and protection?--It is this sacred duty which our Institution has performed
for many such suffering and innocent beings. Where, if not to such an object, can the heart
send forth its sympathies without restraint, and give itself to all the delights of a glowing
generosity?

But I need not tell you of these heavenly satisfactions as I see around me those who have long
known and shared them, for this Institution has, from its foundation, been a favored and fostered
one in our community. Many are the labors that have cheerfully been bestowed upon its interests,
many and generous the contributions given to it, and many and ardent the prayers offered up
in its behalf to the throne of grace. Of those who first united themselves in this work and
labor of love, I find that all have been removed, and have gone to receive their eternal reward.

The last of this respected and excellent band has recently been summoned away from us, and
she went gently and peacefully, in a blessed old age, in full preparation, followed by the
tears and benedictions of the widow and the fatherless whom she had relieved, and in beautiful
accordance with the meek, the honorable, and useful existence, which she had mercifully been
permitted to accomplish. One of the earliest founders of this Asylum, and for many years its
first Directress, she had uniformly given to it her countenance and assistance; and dying,
bequeathed to it a generous evidence of her attachment. Long will her memory be cherished in
this community, as a model of the efficient but unassuming and lovely graces that constitute
the character of the christian matron; long will it be cherished--and especially by you, Ladies,
the present Managers of the Asylum, who have been witnesses of the fidelity, the courtesy,
the discretion, the zeal, with which her duties as associated with you were discharged.[15]
The Institution has descended to you, the successors as it were of a blessed company who are
now we trust, in communion with that Saviour, whose precepts of benevolence they so faithfully
fulfilled, and with that blessed company of the spirits of the just made perfect, who now surround
the throne of God and the Lamb. You need not our exhortation that you should walk worthy of
their example, but you will not reject our devout wishes and prayers, that an equal measure
of success may attend your future labors, and that a heavenly and eternal reward may hereafter
crown them.

To you, my hearers generally, who have assembled in honor of the anniversary of our Institution
and to encourage it in its pious labors, would I address a few words in conclusion. We doubt
not your benevolence, we know that the orphan can never plead to you in vain, we believe that
your hearts will ever be enlarged in proportion to the urgency of the claims of the Institution.
Its necessities must of course increase with our rapidly increasing population, and be assured
it can well and judiciously employ all the bounty you will bestow upon it. Should it be possible
for any one here present to feel cold and indifferent to the claims of this Institution, I
would say, realize the pitiable condition of an orphan infant. To you who are parents and are
watching over your growing offspring, and can imagine how bitter would be your distress at
the thought of being torn from them--remember, that these are destitute of a father's protection
and a mother's anxious love. Be ye then their comfort and their stay. As you look upon your
own offspring, and reflect with gratitude that you are yet preserved to watch over their tender
infancy and dependant youth, and as you pray that you may still shelter them until they can
withstand the storms and adversities of life, think how you may repay your Almighty Benefactor
in the persons of those, who are also his children; think also, how deep will be your ingratitude,
if while so blessed, you can "despise these little ones." Your children are yet around you,
and you watch over them, but you cannot pierce into the solemn darkness of futurity--they may
yet be helpless, parentless, friendless,--as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also
to them likewise.[16]

Ye also, who have experienced, and perhaps still enjoy, the watchful care and affectionate
caresses of devoted parents, forget not that there are those, who have never rejoiced in the
sound of a father's voice, or a mother's gentle embraces. And can you, who have known such
delights refuse your sympathy to these children of the most cruel privation? No. You will remember
those, who have been for ever cut off from the sweetest pleasures of life; whose lips have
never learned to say--"father"--"mother,"--and to behold the countenances of these dearest
friends lighten up with joy at the sound, and their arms extended for the fond embrace. You
will,--yes my brethren,--will you not all,--all here present,--remember them? The bountiful
eye, which looks upon their sad condition, and relieves them, shall be blessed--blessed of
men in their full applause--blessed in its own soothing approbation, and more than all, and
above all, blessed of the God of all blessing, now and for ever more. Amen.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Proverbs xxiii. 6, 7.

[2] Proverbs xxviii. 22.

[3] Deuteronomy xv. 7-10.

[4] 1 Timothy vi. 18.

[5] The Board of Visitors of the Poor, as established in this city, is one of the most practically
useful institutions which the modern spirit of enlightened charity has devised. Its object
is not merely to search out the sick and needy and to relieve them, but also to investigate
the claims of any applicants for charity that may be recommended to it, and thus to prevent
impositions as far as practicable. Every family that has not time to disburse its charities
under the superintendence of its own members, should be in communication with this Board. Measures
are now in progress to organize a system, which shall render this Institution more effective
even than it has yet been, in accomplishing the important purposes for which it was established.
When completed, public notice will be given. Let every benevolent individual in our community
then come forward and give this system his countenance and pecuniary support; and let all resolve
by a united effort to do away the baleful influence of a tolerated pauperism, by detecting
and discountenancing every vicious and unworthy applicant for charity, and by industriously
searching out and promptly relieving every real and deserving object of distress.

[6] Proverbs xxix. 7.

[7] The custom recommended by St. Paul to the Galatians and Corinthians, as we learn from 1
Corinthians xvi. 1, 2. has recently been brought into prominent notice, and begins to be practiced
in the Episcopal Church, especially as applicable to the cause of missions. 

Most of what they harvested in their fields, the family ate it, and handfuls of copper he drew from
the sale of the remainder in the Valencia Marketplace desparramábanse, without forming never needed
to quell the pile Don Salvador.

These anxieties of old Barret to pay their debt but they would come eventually wake in him
a certain instinct of revolt, raising their rude vague and confused
thinking ideas of justice. Why were not his fields? Those who knew her, and have seen how faithfully, affectionately,
and judiciously she discharged the duties of a daughter, a wife, a parent to her own offspring,
and a mother to many others, who with her own children, have abundant reason to "rise up and
call her blessed;" or who have learned from report the leading events of her virtuous, benevolent
and active life, will esteem the humble tribute thus paid to her memory, as proceeding from
an estimate of her excellencies by no means exaggerated. There was a desperate bark, interminable like
a bell ringing the tocsin.

Recrystallization!

... The conviction of reality, raiding suddenly thought him mad.

-
Teresa!

Teresa! ... Amunt! [31]

[31] - Teresa! Teresa! ... Arriba!
And the first push her out of bed. Then he ran to the boys' room,
and to blows and shouts them out in his shirt, like a flock idiot
and coward who runs at the club, without knowing where. And burned
the roof of your room, throwing on the bed a bunch of sparks.
That they hold in affectionate remembrance her gentleness, her charity, her thoughtfulness
for others, her constant endeavor to do good; and it may be permitted to add,--for it was a
conspicuous trait in her character,--the sincerity of heart with which, in all her varied intercourse,
she followed the apostolic injunction, "be courteous." (The novel of the Gran Chaco.)

ADRIANO BERTRAND

The call of the
soil.

The storm over the garden of Candide.

Johan Bojer

The power of lies.

Clear nights.

The insatiable hunger.

Motherhood.

Under the empty sky.

BOURGES Elemire

The birds and the flowers fall away.

Twilight of the gods.

PAUL BOURGET

Nemesis.

Lorenza Albani.

PAUL
BOURGET

The Righteous.

A drama in the big world.

Anomalies.

The
Amazon.

Prison.

Pensive heart does not know where it goes.

Inner
conflicts. Of these, 273
have been placed at service, or otherwise removed; 13 have died, and 71 remained in the Asylum,
on the 35th anniversary.

[16] Luke xvi. 31. Capitalisation of
    religious terms remain as printed.

