The cold, dismal December days had come. It was always long after dark now, before Veronica
got home; but she never had to hurry, for fear of going through the wood alone, for there stood
Blasi always ready at the turf hut on the edge of Fohrensee, just where the houses ceased and
it began to be lonely. If it was fine, he was walking up and down before the hut; if it stormed,
he was standing under the shelter of the roof. He was never absent and he never came too late.
Yet he was busy all day long, and had to run half the way to get to the hut in time. This position
will yield the draft for the combustion. After the grasp is bundle full, had the door-way is built
up, and a fire is started,— only enough at first to complete the drying of the tessera, and to
do this so slowly as not to warp them off of shape. Now that he worked from morning till night he never had time to put his hands in his
pockets, and the saddler kept him up to the mark, proud of showing how well he himself understood
the business. Blasi was contented, and more than contented with his life; he had a new and
very happy consciousness of being of use, and he had risen in his own estimation. He felt like
a man of property, almost like a gentleman. By the time he had finished his day's work, and
hurried down to Fohrensee and walked back again, he was so tired that he was ready to go to
bed directly; he had no time nor desire to loaf. And so it came about that when Veronica wished
to give him his piece of money every evening he objected; for he said he did not want to be
paid; he preferred to have his services accepted on the ground of friendship. Veronica consented
to accept them on that ground, but from time to time she would say, "Blasi, this is your birthday,"
or "To-day is the cherry-festival, I should like to make you a little present," or "I have
had extra work to-day, and I should like to give you part of the extra pay, for if you had
not been coming for me, I could not have waited to do it, so it is fairly yours;" and each
time she pressed into his hand such a large piece of money that he soon had a considerable
sum laid away. Then one day she gave him a silk handkerchief; and another day half-a-dozen
new shirts, white as snow; and then again a package of handkerchiefs hemmed and ready for use;
and all this increase of property raised his standard of living, and excited his ambition.

The night before Christmas, Veronica was late in coming home. It was dark and stormy. She had
been delayed at the school, making preparations for leaving everything in order for the holiday.

When she came into the sitting-room she found her mother at work by lamp-light, mending a ragged
old mail-bag. Advancing years had told upon Gertrude; and although industrious as ever, she
could not work as easily as she once did.

"Oh mother, I cannot let you do that heavy piece of work," said Veronica, as soon as she saw
what her mother was about. "Didn't I tell you that I would come home in time to dress the house
for Christmas, and now you have not only done all that, but you are at work on that old mail-bag.
I can't bear to have you do so. Why won't you let me do something for you, and take a little
rest yourself. You look so tired."

"You need the evening to rest in too, dear child, after working steadily all day," said Gertrude
affectionately. "And I am very glad when there is a piece of work like this that I can do.
I want him to find everything as it used to be, when he comes home. I think that with care
and industry I can manage so that I shall not be obliged to give up this house while he is
away. I am sure it will be a great comfort to him to find that he still has his home. And besides
I feel that it will help him to begin life anew, and bring him back to his old right-minded
way of thinking. Oh, if he would only come home!"

"Mother, mother, that is no reason why you should work beyond your strength. You have taken
care of me all these long years, and now it is fairly my turn to take care of you. Do not worry
about the house, dear; I have made an arrangement with the cattle-dealer. When you told me
that he threatened to take it, I went to him and got him to let me settle with him instead.
He was very glad that I wanted it, for he said that he didn't see what good it would be to
him, and he gave me my time about paying for it."

"Is that true, Veronica?" said Gertrude, and a happy smile stole over her face. "You do not
know what a load you have taken from my heart! Oh, you are good and brave! If I could only
see you look happy, how glad I should be! If I could find out how to make you happy! I would
do anything in the world for you, if I only knew how!"

"There is no use in thinking about it, mother dear. Happiness is not for me. It may be for
others, but not for me." Veronica spoke with strong emotion. "I have worked and struggled for
it ever since I can remember anything, but all in vain. Horticultural and interesting Bedding
and other Plants had tested up in 1869— off PETER'HENDERSON. New or american Vegetables let in 1869—
by JAS. J. H. who, and others. Horticultural implements, never., in 1869. Appointed Kindred Journals.
Authority upon Farming and allied Content, print in 1869.

[established in 1842.] a good, cheap, and entirely appointed Paper
for$ Application, Business Kid, in the Metropolis, Moshav COUNTRY,
and the Farmer, for the Croft, Grove and Unit,* including a till special
Department of interesting and informative Reading for CHILDREN and
YOUTH.

The agriculturist is every digest of forty-four leaf, quarto, not
work, beautifully printed, and occupy with practical, practical, special,
proud matter, including hundreds let of beautiful and long* Engravings*
in every volume.

It incorporate each date was a Calendar of Operation to be performed
on Croft,* in the Orchard* and* Garden,* in and around Application,*
etc. the thousands of hints and suggestions yield in volume are fix
by the plain, intelligent* working force,* Hildebrand know what they
speak and write about.

The articles are exhaustively edited, and a reliable.

The Department for Juvenile and Younker,* is prepared with dependable
care not merely to divert, but besides to inculcate knowledge and
sound large principles.* Valuation.*— that the circulation of the
Agriculturalist, (* to 150,000*) is so large that it can to be furnished
at how the cost of his$ one a period; four pockets, one annum, for
every 5; ten copies, one twelvemonth, for$ 12; twenty or more copies,
one period,$ 1 each; single copies, 15 copper.

An appointed morning had to the one furnishing a club of ten or twenty.

Attempt that him kept a Twelvemonth.

Orange CO.,* Publisher& Proprietors,** no. 245 Broadway, new-Dynasty'City.*
Pockets 1— Puddling is not the kneading or rubbing of clay understood
with business, a day by which it becomes about impervious, retaining
property until etc dried, when its distant separation is broken by
shrinking of its portion.

Puddled
mud till remains original hands as proud as he is impregnate with water, and it does not really to
misplace this caliber until it has been powderize in a attribute.
 Will you not pray with me now, my
child, as we did in those dear old days?"

The girl turned her face aside and wiped away her tears. "I will, mother," she said, making
an effort to control herself, "it will bring back those happy days in memory, and give you
a little pleasure."

She folded her hands and began to repeat the Lord's prayer. Gertrude followed reverently. When
she reached the words, "Forgive us our trespasses," Veronica hid her face in her hands, and
broke into violent sobs.

"No, mother, I must not say it. I cannot forgive him. I cannot forgive Dietrich for having
treated you so, and then run away and hidden himself without writing a single word, to tell
you where he is. He must know how you are suffering, and I too. And that Judas! I can never,
never forgive him. He led Dietrich astray and deceived him. He has destroyed all our happiness.
How can I forgive him? Doesn't he deserve our hatred? Can I help wishing him the worst punishment
that ever befell a human being?"

Veronica sobbed as if the long-pent-up agony of her heart would never again submit to be restrained.
Silently Gertrude sat with folded hands, waiting till the storm was spent. At last she said softly,

"If I felt as you do, my child, I could not bear it at all. It would kill me. But I do not
feel so. When my Dieterli was a little child and I had to do everything for him, before he
was old enough to take care of himself, there was much in his character and conduct that made
me anxious. He always wanted to be first in everything, and whatever he wished for, that he
must have, without delay and without effort on his part. And as he grew older and these qualities
strengthened, I often felt that with his headstrong disposition he could never become great
and good, without the discipline of a severe school. From the earliest hours of his life, I
gave him into God's hands, and prayed for God's care and guidance. And through all these years
my constant prayer for my boy has been, 'Lead him where Thou wilt, Oh God, only let him not
fall out of Thy hands; When this heavy trial came, which was almost beyond my strength to bear,
I did not lose my faith that the God to whom I had given him, would not let my Dieterich be
lost. If the hard lessons of life have begun for Dietrich, he must learn them thoroughly; and
if his sins are to be purged away, he must suffer in the process. And though I suffer too,
it is God's will; I have had much schooling in my life, and have learned much and gained much
from it. Do not feel so hardly against Dietrich because he has not written to us. Perhaps he
has written, and the letter has gone astray. I look for a letter every day, but if he does
not write, we may be sure that he is in great trouble, poor boy! He knows how we feel toward
him, and if he has gone into evil ways we must pity him the more and pray God to bring him
back into the right path again. As to Jost, I think as you do, that he is to blame for our
poor boy's troubles. He led him astray and then played him false. Jost is a poor lost sheep
who has wandered far from the fold. He has no one to care for him, no one to lead him back
again. He is alone in the world. Should not we pray that he may be shown the wickedness of
his ways, that his conscience may be awakened and that he may repent and his soul be saved?"

Veronica had listened attentively to all that Gertrude had said. After a silence she said thoughtfully,

"Mother, are you made happy by this faith in God?"

And without a moment's hesitation came the answer;

"I know of nothing that can make us so happy as this faith--the strong confidence in our hearts
that our Father in Heaven orders and watches over our lives, and that everything which happens
to us is for our good, if we obey him and hold fast to him. I do not know much, Veronica; I
have not read nearly as much as lame Sabina, or as you have, and you understand things far
better than I do; but it seems to me that you would have gained more from your reading, if
you had tried to find something in the books, which you could use to help you in your trouble,
and not merely to find out something new about what other people do and how they live."

"If you learned from these books that our Lord Jesus Christ first taught the lesson that all
men are equal in the sight of God, and that one soul is of as much worth as another before
Him, then it must have been told there too, how our Savior brought us the glad tidings that
we have a Father in Heaven, who loves His children and who will bless them if they put their
trust in Him. Our Savior shows us the way to our Heavenly Father, and will help us to overcome
all the difficulties that stand in our path. He speaks to us with a tenderness beyond that
of any other friend, and bids us lay our burdens upon Him and He will help us to bear them."

"But mother," said Veronica, looking with a wonder that was almost awe upon the peaceful countenance
of the mother, "can you truly say that you have found peace and happiness, while you have no
news from him, and do not know what dreadful tidings any minute may bring you?"

"Yes, Veronica, I can and I do say so," answered Gertrude, and her face even without words
would have borne witness to the truth of what she said. "I know that what ever comes to us,
comes from God, and is for our good. But Veronica, we must put away all hatred and bitterness
from our hearts; these feelings are all evil, and we must ask to be forgiven for them. Shall
I go on with the prayer, where you left off, my child? Try to join with me; it will help you,
dear."

And Gertrude finished the Lord's prayer.

Veronica sat silent for a time, and then rose and went to her own room. She could not sleep,
but she had no inclination to seek relief for trouble in her sewing, as she had been accustomed
to do. Gertrude's words were working in her heart. How often had she said lately in the proud
bitterness of her heart, "A fine truth indeed!

    'Fortune stands ready, full in sight,
     He wins, who knows to grasp it right!'"

And now Gertrude had shown her that the words were true after all, and that she had herself
grasped Happiness, the truest Fortune, even in the midst of a deep sorrow, greater even than
Veronica's own.

Sleeplessly for Veronica the hours of the night went by; but over and over again the mother's
words sounded in her ears, and she strove to quiet with them the trouble and unrest of her heart.

CHAPTER X.

MAN PROPOSES, BUT GOD DISPOSES.

Still no news came from Dietrich. Jost made many attempts to show Veronica how much he wished
to win her favor. He often went to meet her, and he gave himself endless trouble to convince
her of his attachment. He could not boast that he made himself of any use by going to meet
her; for she was always accompanied by Blasi, who marched by her side with a triumphant air
as if to say, "Jost can judge for himself who holds the place of honor here!" When Jost joined
them, Veronica took care that Blasi should walk between herself and the intruder, and she neither
said a word herself, nor seemed to hear what the others were saying. Jost grew pale with suppressed
rage. Whenever at other times he met Blasi anywhere, he threw contemptuous words at him. If
occasionally Blasi stepped into the Rehbock for a glass of beer, Jost would cry out,

"Oh ho, she allows it to-night, does she, you donkey of a servant? How will you look when she
doesn't want your services any longer, and gives you your dismissal? She is already beginning
to soften towards me, but until she comes to me and begs me to hear her, I won't listen to
a word, nor pay the slightest attention to her."

Such remarks as these, thrown out before all the company at the Rehbock were very exasperating
to Blasi and several times he seized the big bowl to throw it at the insolent fellow's head.
He did not throw it however, for Veronica had charged him to have as little as possible to
do with Jost, and especially never to quarrel with him, and Veronica's influence over Blasi
grew stronger every day. So he did not throw the bowl, but instead, drained it to the bottom
and then left the room.

About this time Blasi began to meet Judith very often on his evening walk. Judith seemed to
have some business that took her frequently to Fohrensee. Strange surmises were aroused, among
the Fohrensee people; for it was known that she went to visit the cattle-dealer. The two were
often seen standing before his house in the open street, gesticulating vehemently with hands
and arms. The people about said,

"Something's in the wind. They're going to be married. To be sure she is cleverer than he,
but then he is twenty-five years younger, and that counts for something."

One evening in January, Judith met Blasi as he was coming round the corner of Gertrude's house,
where he was always at work till it was time to go for Veronica.

"What makes you go about laughing all the time, and looking as if you had been winning a game?"
asked Judith.

"That's exactly what I was going to ask you," retorted Blasi, "What have you got to laugh about?"

"Answer me, and I'll answer you, my lad."

"All right; it's nothing to be ashamed of. She'll have me."

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Judith "Who? Which one?"

Blasi did not turn round, but pointed with his thumb over his shoulder at the house he had
just left. "That one," he said.

Judith shouted with laughter.

"Will she have you all three?" she said; "first Dietrich, then Jost, and now you."

"I don't see the joke," said Blasi crossly. "Dietrich has run away; she avoids Jost as if he
were a nettle, and who else is there? Who is there for her to call upon if she wants help, hey?"

Judith was still snickering over the news.

"Now it's your turn," said Blasi, "tell me what it is that you're so pleased about."

"It is very much like yours, Blasi; come a little nearer," and she whispered in his ear, "I
have him."

"Mercy on us!" cried Blasi. "You will be as rich as a Jew, for the cattle-dealer is worth more
than half the people in Fohrensee, all put together."

"I'm not talking about the cattle-dealer."

"Pshaw! whom are you talking about then?"

"Somebody else, and I have him in such a fashion that he will not forget it in a hurry, I tell
you!"

As she spoke, Judith made a gesture with her hands as if she were choking some one, who certainly
would not escape alive from her clutches.

Blasi shook his head and walked on in silence. But in his inmost mind he thought, "I can't
make anything out of her; her head is all in a buzz. But she's only a woman."

Soon after, they reached the turf-hut, and there they separated. Veronica was not far off;
and as she came up Blasi joined her, and they walked quickly along over the crisp, frozen ground.
She was more silent than usual, and seemed sunk in thought. In the middle of the wood she stopped
suddenly and said,

"Blasi will you do me a great favor?"

"I will do anything in the world for you, Veronica," was the prompt reply, "I will jump into
the big pond over there, and never come out again, if you want me to."

"You couldn't get in now; it is frozen hard," said the girl, laughing. "I don't want you to
do that, but something very different. Do you think you could find out what Jost knows about
Dietrich? Perhaps he has told Jost where he is, and where a letter would reach him."

"Yes, but look here, Veronica, are you still thinking about him, all this time?" asked poor
Blasi, quite taken aback.

"We will not talk about that," she answered curtly. "To tell the truth, I am very anxious about
our mother. She has been very far from well lately, and she says every now and then, 'If I
could only see him once more!' as if she felt that she was not going to live much longer. Oh,
help me get word to Dietrich if you can, Blasi! do help me!" Veronica's eyes were full of tears,
as she raised them beseechingly to Blasi's face. He was much touched at the sight of her tears;
but then a great fear arose in his mind, for he thought, "She is beginning to soften, and it
will all turn out just as Jost said." And he determined to prevent it at any cost.

"Don't lose your courage, and I'll try my best! I'll see what I can do!" he said in a very
decided tone, and with a most courageous air.

"You are my only friend now," said Veronica; and the words spurred Blasi on to immediate action.
He left her in the doorway, and hastened away. He would find out all that Jost could or would
tell about Dietrich. He ran across to the Rehbock, where he found Jost sitting with his glass.
For if Jost, as he complained, had to sit and work all the morning, while others did as they
pleased, yet he made enough money by his work to allow him to spend all his afternoons at the
Rehbock, and remain, drinking one glass after another, all through the evening, and late into
the night.

Blasi seated himself by his side, and opened his case very skilfully. He wanted to know about
their old friend; where he was now, and whether there was any chance of getting a line sent
to him. He did not mind paying for a drink to-night, he said, if Jost would tell him exactly
what he knew about Dietrich; they ought to hang together, they three, who had known each other
ever since they were children. While Blasi was discoursing in this clever manner, Jost looked
squintingly at him, and when he stopped, he answered scoffingly,

"Oh, so she has come to it at last, has she? I have been expecting it. You go back and tell
her that I can give her all the information she wants; but she must come to me for it, herself,
and speak pleasantly to me, as I do to her. Tell her that she will never see him again, as
long as she lives; he is too far off. But if she wants to send him a message, she has but to
come to me and ask, and I will do her that favor, and she can do me one in return. Go now,
Blasi, and tell her this from me. I'll pay for the beer myself."

Blasi felt stunned. Jost had seen through his little game at a glance, and treated it with
contempt. How could he carry such a message to Veronica? It might bring the tears into her
eyes again, and that was altogether too painful to see. There was no use in remonstrating with
Jost, who sat there smiling scornfully without farther words. For the first time in his life,
Blasi left his glass unfinished. He pulled his cap down over his eyes and left the inn. When
he entered the widow's cottage, Veronica sat by the table, stitching away at the old mail-bag.
She put it down as he came in, and looked up anxiously into his face.

"It's no use; he is just splitting with rage and fury;" and Blasi threw his cap across into
the farthest corner of the room. He related the whole conversation and it was plain enough
that it was useless for him to try to get anything out of Jost.

She was silent for a time; thinking over Jost's words. "He wants to humble me! I am to go and
beseech him to tell me; and I must be friendly and do him a favor. What favor? No, I will have
nothing to do with him."

She took up the bag again, stitched up the last hole, and folded the work. Then she said,

"May I ask one thing more of you, Blasi? I hope I shall be able to repay you some day for all
your kindness."

"Only speak, Veronica," said Blasi, "I will do anything you ask. If you want me to, I will
go to find Dietrich, even if I have to go on foot all the way to Australia."

"Oh, it is no such long journey as that. I am sorry to ask you to do a disagreeable errand,
but you see Mother is much disturbed because this mail-bag has not been sent back. She seems
to be in a hurry to have everything finished and settled up--as if she had no time to lose."
Veronica paused, and the tears that it so troubled Blasi to see, filled her eyes to overflowing.
"I promised mother that the bag should be sent home early tomorrow morning, and you see I have
no one but you to ask. You can't leave your work in the daytime and at evening you have to
go to meet me; so there is no time but the very early morning before work hours."

"I will take it if it snows cats and dogs; but where is it to go?"

"It is not a pleasant walk, unless you go a long way round by the high-road. The bag belongs
at the post-office at the Valley bridge. Do you think you could get down the steep foot-path
in this deep snow? I should feel dreadfully if anything were to happen to you, Blasi."

Blasi was not afraid. He was proud to show Veronica that she might count on his courage, where
he had only the forces of nature to contend against, and not the treacherous tricks of Jost.

Veronica had a hard battle with herself that night. "Must I do it?" she asked herself again
and again, and each time her heart revolted and she groaned aloud, "I cannot, oh, I cannot!"

Then the image of Gertrude rose before her, pale and suffering, and she heard her heart-rending
words, "If I could only see him once more!" Veronica could not sleep, nor could she come to
any decision.

Next morning it seemed that Blasi was to be taken at his word, and his boast of being ready
for service, no matter what the weather might be, was to be put to the proof; for it stormed
furiously and the wind blew so fiercely when he left the house, that he could scarcely make
way against it. The half-frozen snow stung and blinded him, but it did not deter him. He forced
his way onwards, and though it was still dark and he could not see one step before him, he
went on as confidently and unhesitatingly as if there were no chance of his losing his way.
And he did not lose it. When day dawned he found himself close to the Valley-bridge, in spite
of deep snows and stinging sleet.

"You are early," said the post master, who was busy sorting his letters by lamplight. Blasi
answered that he had to be at work by sunrise, and having delivered the bag and received the
pay for it, he started for home again. He had scarcely gone twenty steps when the post-master
called after him,

"Hulloa! Blasi, you can do a neighborly kindness if you will, and it won't cost you anything;"
and he handed Blasi a letter.

"It is for the old Miller's widow, over there. Jost fetches her letters himself, usually; it
is marked "To be called for," but he'll be glad to be spared the walk such a day as this. You
can tell him he needn't come to-day, you know."

Blasi took the letter. The Miller's widow was an old deaf woman, who lived quite alone, in
a little, tumble-down cottage, just off the road, on a lonely hillside. The foot-path that
Blasi took, led near her dwelling. The woman was an aunt of Jost's, and had known better days
when her husband was alive; but now she had fallen into poverty, and had grown sour and bitter,
and would have nothing to do with the rest of the world. Blasi worked his way to her hut, through
the deep, pathless snow. As he approached the door, he took the letter from his pocket, and
looked at the address.

"Heavens and earth and all the rest of it! It is from Dietrich!" he cried out. "I didn't copy
all his work at school for nothing. I know his hand-writing as well as I know anything!"

He talked aloud in his excitement, as he stood hammering away at the door, which the old woman
was not very prompt in opening. At last he opened it himself, and came stamping into the room.
The widow was sitting on a bench by the stove, picking wool. She had not heard his knocks,
and she stared at him with amazement. He explained how he came by the letter, but she was too
deaf to understand him. Then he held the letter close under her eyes, and shouted in her ear,

"Read it! I want to know what's in it. It's from Dietrich."

She pushed the letter away and said sharply,

"It don't belong to me. I never get any letters. Take it away."

Blasi was fairly out of patience.

"That's your name, any way," he said. "I'll read it to you; I want to know what he says." He
tore the letter open and began to read:

                        "HAMBURG, 14th Jan.