   But I did not sit down to write specially about that
   horrid chapel. I want to know what you mean to do in
   the summer. It is always better to make these little
   arrangements beforehand; and when I speak of the summer,
   I mean the early summer. The long and the short of it is,
   will you come to us about the end of May?

   Of course, I know which way your thoughts will go when you
   get this, and, of course, you will know what I am thinking
   of when I write it; but I will promise that not a word
   shall be said to you to urge you in any way. I do not
   suppose you will think it right that you should stay away
   from friends whom you love, and who love you dearly, for
   fear of a man who wants you to marry him. You are not
   afraid of Mr. Gilmore, and I don't suppose that you are
   going to shut yourself up all your life because Captain
   Marrable has not a fortune of his own. Come at any rate.
   If you find it unpleasant you shall go back just when you
   please, and I will pledge myself that you shall not be
   harassed by persuasions.

   Yours most affectionately,

   JANET FENWICK.

   Frank has read this. He says that all I have said about
   his being serious is a tarradiddle; but that nothing can
   be more true than what I have said about your friends
   loving you, and wishing to have you here again. If you
   were here we might talk him over yet about the chapel.

To which, in the Vicar's handwriting, was added the word, "Never!"

It was two days before she showed this letter to her aunt--two days in which she had thought
much upon the subject. She knew well that her aunt would counsel her to go to Bullhampton,
and, therefore, she would not mention the letter till she had made up her own mind.

"What will you do?" said her aunt.

"I will go, if you do not object."

"I certainly shall not object," said Miss Marrable.

Then Mary wrote a very short letter to her friend, which may as well, also, be communicated
to the reader:--

   Loring, Thursday.

   DEAR JANET,

   I will go to you about the end of May; and yet, though I
   have made up my mind to do so, I almost doubt that I am
   not wise. If one could only ordain that things should
   be as though they had never been! That, however, is
   impossible, and one can only endeavour to live so as to
   come as nearly as possible to such a state. I know that I
   am confused; but I think you will understand what I mean.

   I intend to be very full of energy about the chapel, and
   I do hope that your brother-in-law will be able to prove
   that Lord Trowbridge has been misbehaving himself. I never
   loved Mr. Puddleham, who always seemed to look upon me
   with wrath because I belonged to the Vicarage; and I
   certainly should take delight in seeing him banished from
   the Vicarage gate.

   Always affectionately yours,

   MARY LOWTHER.

CHAPTER XLVI.

MR. JAY OF WARMINSTER.

The Vicar had undertaken to maintain Carry Brattle at Mrs. Stiggs's house, in Trotter's Buildings,
for a fortnight, but he found at the end of the fortnight that his responsibility on the poor
girl's behalf was by no means over. The reader knows with what success he had made his visit
to Startup, and how far he was from ridding himself of his burden by the aid of the charity
and affections of the poor girl's relatives there. He had shaken the Startup dust, as it were,
from his gig-wheels as he drove out of George Brattle's farmyard, and had declined even the
offer of money which had been made. Ten or fifteen pounds! He would make up the amount of that
offer out of his own pocket rather than let the brother think that he had bought off his duty
to a sister at so cheap a rate. Then he convinced himself that in this way he owed Carry Brattle
fifteen pounds, and comforted himself by reflecting that these fifteen pounds would carry the
girl on a good deal beyond the fortnight; if only she would submit herself to the tedium of
such a life as would be hers if she remained at Mrs. Stiggs's house. He named a fortnight both
to Carry and to Mrs. Stiggs, saying that he himself would either come or send before the end
of that time. Then he returned home, and told the whole story to his wife. All this took place
before Mr. Quickenham's arrival at the vicarage.

"My dear Frank," said his wife to him, "you will get into trouble."

"What sort of trouble?"

"In the first place, the expense of maintaining this poor girl,--for life, as far as we can
see,--will fall upon you."

"What if it does? But, as a matter of course, she will earn her bread sooner or later. How
am I to throw her over? And what am I to do with her?"

"But that is not the worst of it, Frank."

"Then what is the worst of it? Let us have it at once."

"People will say that you, a clergyman and a married man, go to see a pretty young woman at
Salisbury."

"You believe that people will say that?"

"I think you should guard against it, for the sake of the parish."

"What sort of people will say it?"

"Lord Trowbridge, and his set."

"On my honour, Janet, I think that you wrong Lord Trowbridge. He is a fool, and to a certain
extent a vindictive fool; and I grant you that he has taken it into his silly old head to hate
me unmercifully; but I believe him to be a gentleman, and I do not think that he would condescend
to spread a damnably malicious report of which he did not believe a word himself."

"But, my dear, he will believe it."

"Why? How? On what evidence? He couldn't believe it. Let a man be ever such a fool, he can't
believe a thing without some reason. I dislike Lord Trowbridge very much; and you might just
as well say that because I dislike him I shall believe that he is a hard landlord. He is not
a hard landlord; and were he to stick dissenting chapels all about the county, I should be
a liar and a slanderer were I to say that he was."

"But then, you see, you are not a fool, Frank."

This brought the conversation to an end. The Vicar was willing enough to turn upon his heel
and say nothing more on a matter as to which he was by no means sure that he was in the right;
and his wife felt a certain amount of reluctance in urging any arguments upon such a subject.
Whatever Lord Trowbridge might say or think, her Frank must not be led to suppose that any
unworthy suspicion troubled her own mind. Nevertheless, she was sure that he was imprudent.

When the fortnight was near at an end, and nothing had been done, he went again over to Salisbury.
It was quite true that he had business there, as a gentleman almost always does have business
in the county town where his banker lives, whence tradesmen supply him, and in which he belongs
to some club. And our Vicar, too, was a man fond of seeing his bishop, and one who loved to
move about in the precincts of the cathedral, to shake hands with the dean, and to have a little
subrisive fling at Mr. Chamberlaine, or such another as Mr. Chamberlaine, if the opportunity
came in his way. He was by no means indisposed to go into Salisbury in the ordinary course
of things; and on this occasion absolutely did see Mr. Chamberlaine, the dean, his saddler,
and the clerk at the Fire Insurance Office,--as well as Mrs. Stiggs and Carry Brattle. If,
therefore, anyone had said that on this day he had gone into Salisbury simply to see Carry
Brattle, such person would have maligned him. He reduced the premium on his Fire Insurance
by 5s. 6d. a year, and he engaged Mr. Chamberlaine to meet Mr. Quickenham, and he borrowed
from the dean an old book about falconry; so that in fact the few minutes which he spent at
Mrs. Stiggs's house were barely squeezed in among the various affairs of business which he
had to transact at Salisbury.

All that he could say to Carry Brattle was this,--that hitherto he had settled nothing. She
must stay in Trotter's Buildings for another week or so. He had been so busy, in consequence
of the time of the year, preparing for Easter and the like, that he had not been able to look
about him. He had a plan; but would say nothing about it till he had seen whether it could
be carried out. When Carry murmured something about the cost of her living the Vicar boldly
declared that she need not fret herself about that, as he had money of hers in hand. He think it
unlike that they did not go to look wholly and they might talk a
interval.'it've now make what they does with all them could clean
familiar week,'him state Harlow.'note into Life,'answer Barrington,
and that.'some prisoners of them are,'state Dominicus,'and that this
are inquire into homo and make into gettin'clothing for act workforce.'there'reappearance
was rarely category of shoddy structure in s'some Philpot,'fabricate
time, after element.

 Carry declared
that she had not heard from him since he left her all bruised and bleeding after his fight
at the Three Honest Men.

The Vicar had told Carry Brattle that he had a plan,--but, in truth, he had no plan. He had
an idea that he might overcome the miller by taking his daughter straight into his house, and
placing the two face to face together; but it was one in which he himself put so little trust,
that he could form no plan out of it. In the first place, would he be justified in taking such
a step? Mrs. George Brattle had told him that people knew what was good for them without being
dictated to by clergymen; and the rebuke had come home to him. He was the last man in the world
to adopt a system of sacerdotal interference. "I could do it so much better if I was not a
clergyman," he would say to himself. And then, if old Brattle chose to turn his daughter out
of the house, on such provocation as the daughter had given him, what was that to him, Fenwick,
whether priest or layman? The old man knew what he was about, and had shown his determination
very vigorously.

"I'll try the ironmonger at Warminster," he said, to his wife.

"I'm afraid it will be of no use."

"I don't think it will. Ironmongers are probably harder than millers or farmers,--and farmers
are very hard. That fellow, Jay, would not even consent to be bail for Sam Brattle. But something
must be done."

"She should be put into a reformatory."

"It would be too late now. That should have been done at once. At any rate, I'll go to Warminster.
I want to call on old Dr. Dickleburg, and I can do that at the same time."

He did go to Warminster. He did call on the Doctor, who was not at home;--and he did call also
upon Mr. Jay, who was at home.

With Mr. Jay himself his chance was naturally much less than it would be with George Brattle.
The ironmonger was connected with the unfortunate young woman only by marriage; and what brother-in-law
would take such a sister-in-law to his bosom? And of Mrs. Jay he thought that he knew that
she was puritanical, stiff, and severe. Mr. Jay he found in his shop along with an apprentice,
but he had no difficulty in leading the master ironmonger along with him through a vista of
pots, grates and frying pans, into a small recess at the back of the establishment, in which
requests for prolonged credit were usually made, and urgent appeals for speedy payment as often
put forth.

"Know the story of Caroline Brattle? Oh yes! I know it, sir," said Mr. Jay. "We had to know
it." And as he spoke he shook his head, and rubbed his hands together, and looked down upon
the ground. There was, however, a humility about the man, a confession on his part, that in
talking to an undoubted gentleman he was talking to a superior being, which gave to Fenwick
an authority which he had felt himself to want in his intercourse with the farmer.

"I am sure, Mr. Jay, you will agree with me in that she should be saved if possible."

"As to her soul, sir?" asked the ironmonger.

"Of course, as to her soul. But we must get at that by saving her in this world first."

Mr. Jay was a slight man, of middle height, with very respectable iron-grey hair that stood
almost upright upon his head, but with a poor, inexpressive, thin face below it. That they transport
the run into plot and i put it was on bowing the Deal along the side of the element where the
gable was. Old high that he had not kicked out of a terminal of a quarrel because t had not
called at the tract at six bungalow and clock for the ladder, not ratty to travel for he was
after meal to-- mapmaking to two grates also of one, and he had instead
been instead because the small had not been went a flagship that morning.

A to adobe in eight bottom gable separated the evidence of'the figure
from those of the premises next door.
 "Jay is respectable, and I don't like to leave
him," men would say, when their wives declared that the backs of his grates fell out, and that
his nails never would stand hammering. So he prospered; but, perhaps, he owed his prosperity
mainly to his hair. He rubbed his hands, and smiled, and bowed his head about, as he thought
what answer he might best make. He was quite willing that poor Carry's soul should be saved.
That would naturally be Mr. Fenwick's affair. But as to saving her body, with any co-operation
from himself or Mrs. Jay,--he did not see his way at all through such a job as that.

"I'm afraid she is a bad 'un, Mr. Fenwick; I'm afraid she is," said Mr. Jay.

"The thing is, whether we can't put our heads together and make her less bad," said the Vicar.
"She must live somewhere, Mr. Jay."

"I don't know whether almost the best thing for 'em isn't to die,--of course after they have
repented, Mr. Fenwick. You see, sir, it is so very low, and so shameful, and they do bring
such disgrace on their poor families. There isn't anything a young man can do that is nearly
so bad,--is there, Mr. Fenwick?"

"I'm not at all sure of that, Mr. Jay."

"Ain't you now?"

"I'm not going to defend Carry Brattle;--but if you will think how very small an amount of
sin may bring a woman to this wretched condition, your heart will be softened. Poor Carry;--she
was so bright, and so good and so clever!"

"Clever she was, Mr. Fenwick;--and bright, too, as you call it. But--"

"Of course we know all that. The question now is, what can we do to help her? She is living
now at this present moment, an orderly, sober life; but without occupation, or means, or friends.
Will your wife let her come to her,--for a month or so, just to try her?"

"Come and live here!" exclaimed the ironmonger.

"That is what I would suggest. Who is to give her the shelter of a roof, if a sister will not?"

"I don't think that Mrs. Jay would undertake that," said the ironmonger, who had ceased to
rub his hands and to bow, and whose face had now become singularly long and lugubrious.

"May I ask her?"

"It wouldn't do any good, Mr. Fenwick;--it wouldn't indeed."

"It ought to do good. May I try?"

"If you ask me, Mr. Fenwick, I should say no; indeed I should. Mrs. Jay isn't any way strong,
and the bare mention of that disreputable connexion produces a sickness internally;--it does,
indeed, Mr. Fenwick."

"You will do nothing, then, to save from perdition the sister of your own wife;--and will let
your wife do nothing?"

"Now, Mr. Fenwick, don't be hard on me;--pray don't be hard on me. I have been respectable,
and have always had respectable people about me. If my wife's family are turning wrong, isn't
that bad enough on me without your coming to say such things as this to me? Really, Mr. Fenwick,
if you'd think of it, you wouldn't be so hard."

"She may die in a ditch, then, for you?" said the Vicar, whose feeling against the ironmonger
was much stronger than it had been against the farmer. He could say nothing further, so he
turned upon his heel and marched down the length of the shop, while the obsequious tradesman
followed him,--again bowing and rubbing his hands, and attending him to his carriage. The Vicar
didn't speak another word, or make any parting salutation to Mr. Jay. "Their hearts are like
the nether millstone," he said to himself, as he drove away, flogging his horse. "Of what use
are all the sermons? Nothing touches them. Do unto others as you think they would do unto you.
That's their doctrine." As he went home he made up his mind that he would, as a last effort,
carry out that scheme of taking Carry with him to the mill;--he would do so, that is, if he
could induce Carry to accompany him. In the meantime, there was nothing left to him but to
leave her with Mrs. Stiggs, and to pay ten shillings a week for her board and lodging. There
was one point on which he could not quite make up his mind;--whether he would or would not
first acquaint old Mrs. Brattle with his intention.

He had left home early, and when he returned his wife had received Mary Lowther's reply to
her letter.

"She will come?" asked Frank.

"She just says that and nothing more."

"Then she'll be Mrs. Gilmore."

"I hope so, with all my heart," said Mrs. Fenwick.

"I look upon it as tantamount to accepting him. She wouldn't come unless she had made up her
mind to take him. You mark my words. They'll be married before the chapel is finished."

"You say it as if you thought she oughtn't to come."

"No;--I don't mean that. I was only thinking how quickly a woman may recover from such a hurt."

"Frank, don't be ill-natured. She will be doing what all her friends advise."

"If I were to die, your friends would advise you not to grieve; but they would think you very
unfeeling if you did not."

"Are you going to turn against her?"

"No."

"Then why do you say such things? Is it not better that she should make the effort than lie
there helpless and motionless, throwing her whole life away? Will it not be much better for
Harry Gilmore?"

"Very much better for him, because he'll go crazy if she don't."

"And for her too. We can't tell what is going on inside her breast. I believe that she is making
a great effort because she thinks it is right. You will be kind to her when she comes?"

"Certainly I will,--for Harry's sake--and her own."

But in truth the Vicar at this moment was not in a good humour. He was becoming almost tired
of his efforts to set other people straight, so great were the difficulties that came in his
way. As he had driven into his own gate he had met Mr. Puddleham, standing in the road just
in front of the new chapel. He had made up his mind to accept the chapel, and now he said a
pleasant word to the minister. Mr. Puddleham turned up his eyes and his nose, bowed very stiffly,
and then twisted himself round, without answering a word. How was it possible for a man to
live among such people in good humour and Christian charity?

In the evening he was sitting with his wife in the drawing-room discussing all these troubles,
when the maid came in to say that Constable Toffy was at the door.

Constable Toffy was shown into his study, and then the Vicar followed him. He had not spoken
to the constable now for some months,--not since the time at which Sam had been liberated;
but he had not a moment's doubt when he was thus summoned, that something was to be said as
to the murder of Mr. Trumbull. The constable put his hand up to his head, and sat down at the
Vicar's invitation, before he began to speak.

"What is it, Toffy?" said the Vicar.

"We've got 'em at last, I think," said Mr. Toffy, in a very low, soft voice.

"Got whom;--the murderers?"

"Just so, Mr. Fenwick; all except Sam Brattle,--whom we want."

"And who are the men?"

"Them as we supposed all along,--Jack Burrows, as they call the Grinder, and Lawrence Acorn
as was along with him. He's a Birmingham chap, is Acorn. He's know'd very well at Birmingham.
And then, Mr. Fenwick, there's Sam. That's all as seems to have been in it. We shall want Sam,
Mr. Fenwick."

"You don't mean to tell me that he was one of the murderers?"

"We shall want him, Mr. Fenwick."

"Where did you find the other men?"

"They did get as far as San Francisco,--did the others. They haven't had a bad game of it,--have
they, Mr. Fenwick? They've had more than seven months of a run. It was the 31st of August as
Mr. Trumbull was murdered, and here's the 15th of April, Mr. Fenwick. There ain't a many runs
as long as that. You'll have Sam Brattle for us all right, no doubt, Mr. Fenwick?" The Vicar
told the constable that he would see to it, and get Sam Brattle to come forward as soon as
he could. "I told you all through, Mr. Fenwick, as Sam was one of them as was in it, but you
wouldn't believe me."

"I don't believe it now," said the Vicar.

CHAPTER XLVII.

SAM BRATTLE IS WANTED.

The next week was one of considerable perturbation, trouble, and excitement at Bullhampton,
and in the neighbourhood of Warminster and Heytesbury. It soon became known generally that
Jack the Grinder and Lawrence Acorn were in Salisbury gaol, and that Sam Brattle--was wanted.
The perturbation and excitement at Bullhampton were, of course, greater than elsewhere. It
was necessary that the old miller should be told,--necessary also that the people at the mill
should be asked as to Sam's present whereabouts. If they did not know it, they might assist
the Vicar in discovering it. Fenwick went to the mill, taking the Squire with him; but they
could obtain no information. The miller was very silent, and betrayed hardly any emotion when
he was told that the police again wanted his son.

"They can come and search," he said. "They can come and search." And then he walked slowly
away into the mill. There was a scene, of course, with Mrs. Brattle and Fanny, and the two
women were in a sad way.

"Poor boy,--wretched boy!" said the unfortunate mother, who sat sobbing with her apron over
her face.

"We know nothing of him, Mr. Gilmore, or we would tell at once," said Fanny.

"I'm sure you would," said the Vicar. "And you may remember this, Mrs. Brattle; I do not for
one moment believe that Sam had any more to do with the murder than you or I. You may tell
his father that I say so, if you please."

For saying this the Squire rebuked him as soon as they had left the mill. "I think you go too
far in giving such assurance as that," he said.

"Surely you would have me say what I think?"

"Not on such a matter as this, in which any false encouragement may produce so much increased
suffering. You, yourself, are so prone to take your own views in opposition to those of others
that you should be specially on your guard when you may do so much harm."

"I feel quite sure that he had nothing to do with it."

"You see that you have the police against you after a most minute and prolonged investigation."

"The police are asses," insisted the Vicar.

"Just so. That is, you prefer your own opinion to theirs in regard to a murder. I should prefer
yours to theirs on a question of scriptural evidence, but not in such an affair as this. I
don't want to talk you over, but I wish to make you careful with other people who are so closely
concerned. In dealing with others you have no right to throw over the ordinary rules of evidence."

The Vicar accepted the rebuke and promised to be more careful,--repeating, however, his own
opinion about Sam, to which he declared his intention of adhering in regard to his own conduct,
let the police and magistrates say what they might. He almost went so far as to declare that
he should do so even in opposition to the verdict of a jury; but Gilmore understood that this
was simply the natural obstinacy of the man, showing itself in its natural form.

At this moment, which was certainly one of gloom to the parish at large, and of great sorrow
at the Vicarage, the Squire moved about with a new life which was evident to all who saw him.
He went about his farm, and talked about his trees, and looked at his horses and had come to
life again. No doubt many guesses as to the cause of this were made throughout his establishment,
and some of them, probably, very near the truth. But, for the Fenwicks there was no need of
guessing. Gilmore had been told that Mary Lowther was coming to Bullhampton in the early summer,
and had at once thrown off the cloak of his sadness. He had asked no further questions; Mrs.
Fenwick had found herself unable to express a caution; but the extent of her friend's elation
almost frightened her.

"I don't look at it," she said to her husband, "quite as he does."

"She'll have him now," he answered, and then Mrs. Fenwick said nothing further.

To Fenwick himself, this change was one of infinite comfort. The Squire was his old friend
and almost his only near neighbour. In all his troubles, whether inside or outside of the parish,
he naturally went to Gilmore; and, although he was a man not very prone to walk by the advice
of friends, still it had been a great thing to him to have a friend who would give an opinion,
and perhaps the more so, as the friend was one who did not insist on having his opinion taken.
During the past winter Gilmore had been of no use whatever to his friend. His opinions on all
matters had gone so vitally astray, that they had not been worth having. One side through the
ladder had several scaffold band or ribbon twisted and nailed of builder really. It was spirally
what is known as a iron's iron ladder, and it had been strengthened of an it bolts or rods which passed
round just under some by the rungs.

It was certainly very expedient that Sam should be made to reappear as soon as possible. The
idea was general in the parish that the Vicar knew all about him. George Brattle, who had become
bail for his brother's reappearance, had given his name on the clear understanding that the
Vicar would be responsible. Some half-sustained tidings of Carry's presence in Salisbury and
of the Vicar's various visits to the city were current in Bullhampton, and with these were
mingled an idea that Carry and Sam were in league together. That Fenwick was chivalrous, perhaps
Quixotic, in his friendships for those whom he regarded, had long been felt, and this feeling
was now stronger than ever. He certainly could bring up Sam Brattle if he pleased;--or, if
he pleased, as might, some said, not improbably be the case, he could keep him away. There
would be £400 to pay for the bail-bond, but the Vicar was known to be rich as well as Quixotic,
and,--so said the Puddlehamites,--would care very little about that, if he might thus secure
for himself his own way.

He was constrained to go over again to Salisbury in order that he might, if possible, learn
from Carry how to find some trace to her brother, and of this visit the Puddlehamites also
informed themselves. There were men and women in Bullhampton who knew exactly how often the
Vicar had visited the young woman at Salisbury, how long he had been with her on each occasion,
and how much he paid Mrs. Stiggs for the accommodation. Gentlemen who are Quixotic in their
kindness to young women are liable to have their goings and comings chronicled with much exactitude,
if not always with accuracy.

