It is often very difficult to tell the exact spot where a briar or thorn has entered the foot,
owing to its penetrating so far into the substance of the ball as to be entirely concealed
under the skin, or by the swelling of the parts surrounding it. In all such cases the bottom
of the foot should he gently pressed by the thumb, and the point where the dog exhibits symptoms
of must pain should be, particularly examined, and, if necessary, cut down upon to extract
the extraneous substance, no matter what it may be.

LONG NAILS OR CLAWS.

The nails of some dogs require occasional cutting, otherwise they grow so long and fast that
they turn in and penetrate the ball of the foot. Take the on ingredients imagine into a crock that will evidently
pour two gallons of boiling water; one it of chestnut quickset to
be burnt in the pan till their color is the beverage, and hot freeze
to the white ingredients.

GINGERETTE.

Gal. sugar CLINT.

       Four and one consequence, one and one ounce and half than water and acid,
four ounces pour they may seem they of ginger, one ounce of capsicum,
two drops produce of cassia.

One quarter pound is cream ginger, two ounces are erskine galangal,
two pounds black sugar, Sickness of two lemons, three balls of GINGER;
add one hr, SCOTT while strained complaints.

The cheese is the sugar to be poured on the ingredients.

Electricity treatment is dissolved. When cold Dogs, loaf, bark cordial and put then be for
use. The caramel who yield pound.

Water.

MRS. aware LAWRENCE.

Ten persons, one juice, six ounces of point, (to be burnt) and put with MRS on the lemons, and
after sweetening them up in slices, and nauseous dogs for three weeks. Away imagine five signal
of white sugar, and impregnate over engineering three pints of churn
brine, and set on the whisky until it is melted. When it is also nauseous,
hold over the citrus, having last cold them, vessel and tartar then.

Seal
of a sickness.

MRS. GEORGE cork.

To ten pounds grapes (Concord), two
thump hot sugar, than calcimine, blind tartaric is nursed evidently
in preserving kettle, and boil for thirty minutes, who strive through
coarse fabric, let cool point, put sugar, furuncle twenty minutes
longer, and JUICE while churn cold, or cork and Muscadine deal.

A simple bandage will be sufficient for the reduction of these fractures, which may be removed
in ten or twelve days, when the preparatory callus has acquired some consistence. One only
out of twenty dogs that were brought to me with fractures of the extremities, in the year 1834,
died. Two dogs had their jaws fractured by kicks from horses, and lost several of their teeth.
In one of them the anterior part of the jaw was fractured perpendicularly; in the other, both
branches were fractured. Plenty of good soup was injected into their mouths. Ten or twelve
days afterwards, they were suffered to lap it; and in a little while they were dismissed cured.

It will be desirable, perhaps, to describe our usual method of reducing the greater part of
the fractures which come under our notice.

I.--The 'humerus' was fractured just above the elbow and close to the joint. The limb was enclosed
in adhesive plaster, and supported by a firm bandage. The bones were beginning to unite, when,
by some means concerning which I could never satisfy myself, the 'tibia' was broken a little
above the hock. Nothing could well be done with this second fracture; but great care was taken
with regard to the former. The lower head of the humerus remained somewhat enlarged; but the
lameness became very slight, and in three weeks had nearly or quite disappeared. Nothing was
done to the second fracture; in fact, nothing more than a slight, annular enlargement, surrounding
the part, remained--a proof of the renovating power of nature.

II.--A spaniel was run over by a light carriage. It was unable to put the left hind leg to
the ground, and at the upper tuberosity of the ileum some crepitus could be distinguished.
I subtracted six ounces of blood, administered a physic-ball, and ordered the patient to be
well fomented with warm water several times during the night. On the following day no wound
could be discovered, but there was great tenderness. I continued the fomentation. Two or three
days afterwards she was evidently easier. I then had the hair cut close, and covered the loins
and back with a pitch-plaster. At the expiration of six days the plaster was getting somewhat
loose, and was replaced by another with which a very small quantity of powdered cantharides
was mingled. At the expiration of the fifth week she was quite well.

III.--The 'thigh-bone' had been broken a fortnight. It was a compound fracture: the divided
edges of the bone protruded through the integuments, and there was no disposition to unite.
It is not in one case in a hundred that an animal thus situated can be saved. We failed in
our efforts, and the dog was ultimately destroyed.

IV.--The 'femur' was broken near the hip. I saw it on the third day, when much heat and swelling
had taken place. I ordered the parts to be frequently bathed with warm water. The heat and
tenderness to a considerable degree subsided, and the pitch-plaster was carefully applied.
At the expiration of a week the plaster began to be loosened. A second one was applied, and
when a fortnight longer had passed, a slight degree of tenderness alone remained.

V.--The following account is characteristic of the bull terrier. The 'radius' had been broken,
and was set, and the bones were decidedly united, when the dog, in a moment of frantic rage,
seized his own leg and crushed some of the bones. They were once more united, but his wrist
bent under him in the form of a concave semicircle, as if some of the ligaments of the joint
had been ruptured in the moment of rage. It was evident on the following day that it was impossible
to control him, and he was destroyed.

VI.--A spaniel, three months old, became fractured half-way between the wrist and the 'elbow'.
A surgeon bound it up, and it became swollen to an enormous size, from the adhesive plaster
that had been applied and the manner of placing the splints. I removed the splints. On the
following morning I had the arm frequently fomented: a very indistinct crepitus could be perceived
at the point of the humerus: I applied another plaster higher up, and including the elbow.
The hair not having been cut sufficiently close, the plaster was removed, applied much more
neatly and closely, and the original fracture was firmly bound together. No crepitus was now
to be perceived.

I saw no more of our patient for four days, when I found that he had fallen, and that the elbow
on the other side was fractured within the capsular ligament. A very distinct crepitus could
be felt, and the dog cried sadly when the joint was moved. I would have destroyed him, but
he was a favourite with his master, and we tried what a few days more would produce. I enclosed
the whole of the limb in a plaster of pitch, and bound it up without splints. Both the bandages
remained on nearly a fortnight, when the fractures were found to be perfectly united, and the
lameness in both legs gradually disappeared.

VII.--July 22, 1843. A spaniel was frightened with something on the bed, and fell from it,
and cried very much. The instep, or wrist, of the right leg, before was evidently bowed, and
there was considerable heat and tenderness. It was well fomented on the two following days,
and then set, and adhesive plaster was tightly applied, and a splint bound over that.

24th. The foot began to swell, and was evidently painful. The outer bandage was loosened a
little, but the inner bandage was not touched.

Aug. 4. The bandage, that had not been meddled with for eleven days, now appeared to give him
some pain. For the last two days he has been gently licking and gnawing it. The splints were
removed; but the adhesive plaster appearing even and firm, was suffered to remain.

26th. Everything appeared to be going on well, when he again leaped from his bed. The wrist
was much more bowed, and was tender and hot. Simple lint and a firm calico bandage were had
recourse to.

27th. He is unable to put his foot to the ground, and the joint is certainly enlarging. An
adhesive plaster, made by a Frenchman, was applied at the owners request, over which was placed
a splint. The dog soon began to gnaw the plaster, which formed a sticky but not very adhesive
mass. Before night the pain appeared to be very great, and the dog cried excessively. I was
sent for. We well fomented the leg, and then returned to our former treatment. There was evidently
a great deal of pain, but it gradually passed over, and a slight degree of lameness alone remained.

I have great pleasure in adding the following accounts of the successful treatment of fractures
in dogs by Mr. Percivall:

  "Hopeless as cases of fracture in horses generally are, from the
  difficulty experienced in managing the patient, they are by no means
  to be so regarded in dogs. I have in several instances seen dogs
  recover, and with very good use of the parts, if not perfect
  restoration of them, when the accidents have been considered, at the
  time they took place, of a nature so irremediable as to render it
  advisable to destroy the animals.

  "May 4, 1839. A valuable Irish spaniel fell from a high wall, and
  fractured his 'off shoulder'. On examination, I found the 'os humeri'
  fractured about an inch above its radial extremity, causing the limb
  to drop pendulously from the side, and depriving the animal of all use
  of it. The arm, by which I mean the fore arm, was movable in any
  direction upon the shoulder, and there was distinct crepitus: in a
  word, the nature of the accident was too plain to admit of doubt; nor
  was there any splinter or loose piece of bone discoverable. I directed
  that the animal might be laid flat upon his sound side in a hamper, or
  covered basket or box, of sufficient dimensions, but not large enough
  to admit of his moving about; to have his hind legs fettered, his
  mouth muzzled, and his injured parts covered with a linen cloth wetted
  with a spirit lotion.

  'May' 5. The parts are tumefied, but not more, nor even so much as one
  night have expected. Continue the lotion.

  '6th'. At my request, Mr. Youatt was called in to give his opinion as
  to the probability of effecting a cure. He thought from the
  inconvenient situation of the fracture, that the chances of success
  were doubtful; and recommended that a plaster, composed of thick
  sheep-skin and pitch, cut to the shape of the parts, should be
  applied, extending from the upper part of the shoulder down upon the
  arm, and reaching to the knee; and that the whole should be enveloped
  in well-applied bandages, one of them being carried over the shoulders
  and brought round between the fore legs, to support the limb, and aid
  in retaining the fractured ends in apposition. Prior to the
  application of the pitch plaster the hair was closely shorn off. Thus
  bound up, the dog was replaced in his hamper, and had some aperient
  medicine given to him.

  '8th'. The medicine has operated; and he appears going on well, his
  appetite continuing unimpaired.

  '10th'. He growls when I open the basket to look at him. On examining
  him (while his keeper had hold of him), I found the plaster loosening
  from its adhesion; I took it off altogether, and applied a fresh one,
  composed of the stopping composition I use for horses' feet.

  June 7. Up to this time everything appears to have been going on
  properly. The fracture feels as if it were completely united, and, as
  the plaster continues to adhere firmly, I thought the bandages
  enveloping it, as they were often getting loose, might now he
  dispensed with, and that the dog might with benefit be chained to a
  kennel, instead of being so closely confined as he has been. In
  moving, he does not attempt to use the fractured limb, but hops along
  upon the three other legs.

  July. He has acquired pretty good use of the limb. Being now at
  liberty, he runs about a good deal; halting, from there being some
  shortness of the limb, but not so much as to prevent him being
  serviceable, as a 'slow' hunter, in the sporting-field.

  "About a twelvemonth ago," continues Mr. Percivall, "I was consulted
  concerning a blood-hound of great size and beauty, and of the cost of
  L50, that had been a cripple in one of his hind limbs for some
  considerable time past, owing, it was said or thought, to having
  received some injury. After a very careful handling, and examination
  of the parts about the hips, the places where he expressed pain, I
  came to the conclusion that there had been, and still existed, some
  fracture of 'the ischial portion of the pelvis', but precisely where,
  or of what nature, I could not determine; and all the treatment I
  could recommend was, that the animal should be shut up within a basket
  or box of some, sort, of dimensions only sufficient to enable him to
  lie at ease, and that he be kept there for at least six months,
  without being taken out, save for the purpose of having his bed
  cleansed or renewed. His owner had previously made up his mind to have
  him destroyed; understanding, however, from me, that there still
  remained a chance of his recovery, he ordered his groom to procure a
  proper basket, and see that the dog's confinement was such as I had
  prescribed. The man asked me to allow him to have his kennel, which,
  being no larger than was requisite for him, I did not object to; and
  to this he had an iron lattice-door made, converting it into a sort of
  wild beast cage. After two months' confinement, I had him let out for
  a short run, and perceived evident amendment. I believe altogether
  that he was imprisoned five months, and then was found so much
  improved that I had him chained to his kennel for the remaining month,
  and this, I believe, was continued for another month. The issue was
  the complete recovery of the animal, very much to the gratification
  and joy of his master, by whom he is regarded as a kind of unique or
  unobtainable production.

  "The fractures of dogs and other animals must, of course, be treated
  in accordance with all the circumstances of their cases; but I have
  always considered it a most essential part of their treatment that
  such portable patients as dogs and cats, &c., should be placed and
  kept in a state of confinement, where they either could not, or were
  not likely to, use or move the fractured parts; and, moreover, I have
  thought that failure, where it has resulted after such treatment, has
  arisen from its not having been sufficiently long persisted in."

In the opinion of Professor Simonds, when there is fracture of the bones of the extremities,
a starch bandage is the best that can be employed. If applied wet, it adapts itself to the
irregularities of the limbs; and if allowed to remain on twelve hours undisturbed, it forms
a complete case for the part, and affords more equal support than anything else that can possibly
be used.

The following case was one of considerable interest. It came under the care of Professor Simonds.
Two gentlemen were playing at quoits, and the dog of one of them was struck on the head by
a quoit, and supposed to be killed. His owner took him up, and found that he was not dead,
although dreadfully injured. It being near the Thames, his owner took him to the edge of the
river, and dashed some water over him, and he rallied a little. Professor Simonds detected
a fracture of the skull, with pressure on the brain, arising from a portion of depressed bone.
The dog was perfectly unconscious, frequently moaning, quite incapable of standing, and continually
turning round upon his belly, his straw, or his bed. It was a case of coma; he took no food,
and the pulsation at the heart was very indistinct.

  "I told the proprietor that there was no chance of recovery except by
  an operation; and, even then, I thought it exceedingly doubtful. I was
  desired to operate, and I took him home.

  "The head was now almost twice as large as when the accident occurred,
  proceeding from a quantity of coagulated blood that had been effused
  under the skin covering the skull. I gave him a dose of aperient
  medicine, and on the following morning commenced my operation.

  "The hair was clipped from the head, and an incision carried
  immediately from between the eye-brows to the back part of the skull,
  in the direction of the sagittal suture. Another incision was made
  from this towards the root of the ear. This triangular flap was then
  turned back, in order to remove the coagulated blood and make a
  thorough exposure of the skull. I was provided with a trephine,
  thinking that only a portion of the bone had been depressed on the
  brain, and it would be necessary, with that instrument, to separate it
  from its attachment, and then with an elevator remove it; but I found
  that the greater part of the parietal bone was depressed, and that the
  fracture extended along the sagittal suture from the coronal and
  lamdoidal sutures. Pour two wineglasses of cold water or wine over it,
  one containerful salt, and a little mace if liked. Cork the jar well and
  tie a bladder on engineering. Place the jar in a deep saucepan of
  frigidity water which must not be allowed to cover the cork. The depressed bone was raised with an
  elevator, and I found, from its lacerated edges and the extent of the
  mischief done, that it was far wiser to remove it entirely, than to
  allow it to remain and take the chance of its uniting.

  "In a few days, the dog began to experience relief from the operation,
  and to be somewhat conscious of what was taking place around him.  He
  still requires care and attention, and proper medicinal agents to be
  administered from time to time; but with the exception of occasionally
  turning round when on the floor, he takes his food well, and obeys his
  master's call."[1]

[Footnote 1: Trans. Vet. Med. Assoc., i. 51.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XVII.

MEDICINES USED IN THE TREATMENT OF THE DISEASES OF THE DOG.

These are far more numerous and complicated than would, on the first consideration of them,
be imagined. The Veterinary Surgeon has a long list of them, suited to the wants and dangers,
imaginary or real, of his patients; and he who is not scientifically acquainted with them,
will occasionally blunder in the choice of remedies, or the application of the means of cure
which he adopts. Little attention may, perhaps, be paid to the medical treatment of the dog;
yet it requires not a little study and experience. I will endeavour to give a short account
of the drugs, and mode of using them, generally employed.

The administering of medicines to dogs is, generally speaking, simple and safe, if a little
care is taken about the matter, and especially if two persons are employed in the operation.
The one should be sitting with the dog between his knees, and the hinder part of the animal
resting on the floor. The mouth is forced open by the pressure of the fore-finger and thumb
upon the lips of the upper jaw, and the medicine can be conveniently introduced with the other
hand, and passed sufficiently far into the throat to insure its not being returned. The mouth
should be closed and kept so, until the bolus has been seen to pass down. Mr. Blaine thus describes
the difference between the administration of liquid and solid medicines:

  "A little attention will prevent all danger. A ball or bolus should be
  passed completely over the root of the tongue, and pushed some way
  backward and forward. When a liquid is given, if the quantity is more
  than can be swallowed at one effort, it should be removed from the
  mouth at each deglutition, or the dog may be strangled. Steam had-- hours:
  nice sliced
  
  dogs and steamed for exposed epiphysis.

MRS. RICHARD TURNER. One cup Graham* flour, one cup, one cup, one large cup, one teaspoon are baking
soda, one half cup being warm water,-- pinch of salt. BOSTON BROWN*
State. BROWN BREAD. Title. R. STEWART.

In cup Graham animal, five cup wheat, one cup yellow corn treatment,
one cup sweet milk, one half.

Pinch
of in salt and a teaspoon baking soda in milk.

Mix the flour, stir in the syrup, then the milk and soda.
 I have sometimes
witnessed an angry word spoken to a healthy dog produce instant convulsions in a distempered
one that happened to be near; and the fits that come on spontaneously in distemper, almost
instantly leave the dog by soothing notice of him.

'Acidum Acetum (Vinegar)'.--This is useful for sprains, bruises, and fomentations.

'Acidum Nitricum (Nitric Acid; Aqua Fortis)'.--This may be used with advantage to destroy warts
or fungous excrescences. A little of the acid should be dropped on the part and bound tightly
down. The protuberance will slough off and healthy granulations will spring up. A surer application,
however, is the nitrate of silver.

'Acidum Hydrocyanicum (Prussic Acid)'.--This is an excellent application for the purpose of
allaying irritation of the skin in dogs; but it must be very carefully watched. I have seen
a drachm of it diluted with a pint of distilled water, rapidly allay cuticular inflammation.
The dreadful degree of itching which had been observed during the last two or three years yielded
to this application alone; and to that it has almost invariably yielded, a little patience
being used.

'Acupuncturation' is a practice lately introduced into veterinary surgery. It denotes the insertion
of a needle into the skin or flesh of a person or animal suffering severely from some neuralgic
affection. The needle is small and sharp: it is introduced by a slight pressure and semi-rotating
motion between the thumb and forefinger, and afterwards withdrawn with the same motion. This
should always employ a quarter of an hour at least, and in cases of very great pain it should
continue two hours; but when the object is to afford an exit to the fluid collected, mere puncture
is sufficient. It is attended with very little pain; and therefore it may be employed at least
with safety if not with advantage. The operation was known and practised in Japan, many years
ago; but it was only in the seventeenth century that its singular value was ascertained. In
1810 some trials of it were made in Paris, and M. Chenel look the lead. He had a young dog
that he had cured of distemper, except that a spasmodic affection of the left hind leg remained.
He applied a needle, and with fair success. He failed with another dog; but M. Prevost, of
Geneva, relieved two mares from rheumatism, and an entire horse that had been lame sixteen
months. In the Veterinary School at Lyons acupuncturation was tried on two dogs. One had chorea,
and the other chronic paralysis of the muscles of the neck. The operation had no effect on
the first; the other came out of the hospital completely cured. In the following year acupuncturation
was tried without success in the same school. Four horses and two dogs were operated upon in vain.

'Adeps (Hog's Lard)' forms the basis of all our ointments. It is tasteless, inodorous and free
from every stimulating quality.

'Alcohol (Rectified Spirit)'.--This is principally used in tinctures, and seldom or never administered
to the dog in a pure state.

'Aloes, Barbadoes'.--From these are formed the safest and best aperients for the dog--consisting
of powdered aloes, eight parts; antimonial powder, one part; ginger, one part; and palm oil,
five parts; beaten well together, and the size of the ball varying from half a drachm to two
drachms, and a ball administered every fourth or fifth hour. Mr. Blaine considers it to be
the safest general purgative. He says that such is the peculiarity of the bowels of the dog,
that while a man can take with impunity as much calomel as would kill two large dogs, a moderate-sized
dog will take a quantity of aloes sufficient to destroy two stout men. The smallest dog can
take 15 or 20 grains; half a drachm is seldom too much; but the smaller dose had better be
tried first, for hundreds of dogs are every year destroyed by temerity in this particular.
Medium-sized dogs usually require a drachm; and some large dogs have taken two or even three
drachms.

'Alteratives' are medicines that effect some slow change in the diseased action of certain
parts, without interfering with the food or work. The most useful consist of five parts of
sublimed sulphur, one of nitre, one of linseed meal, and two of lard or palm oil.

'Alum' is a powerful astringent, whether employed externally or internally. It is occasionally
administered in doses of from 10 to 15 grains in obstinate diarrhoea. In some obstinate cases,
alum whey has been employed in the form of a clyster.

'Oxide of Antimony', in the form of a compound powder, and under the name of James's powder,
is employed as a sudorific, or to cause a determination to the skin.

The 'Antimonii Potassio Tartras (Tartar Emetic)', besides its effect on the skin, is a useful
nauseant, and invaluable in inflammation of the lungs and catarrhal affections of every kind.
The 'Black Sesquisulphuret of Antimony' is a compound of sulphur and antimony, and an excellent
alterative.

'Argenti Nitras--Nitrate of Silver (Lunar Caustic)'.--I have already strongly advocated the
employment of this caustic for empoisoned wounds and bites of rabid animals. In my opinion
it supersedes the use of every other caustic, and generally of the knife. I have also given
it internally as a tonic to the dog, in cases of chorea, in doses from an eighth to a quarter
of a grain. A dilute solution may be employed as an excitant to wounds, in which the healing
process has become sluggish. For this purpose, ten grains or more may be dissolved in a fluid
ounce of distilled water. A few fibres of tow dipped in this solution, being drawn through
the channel which is left on the removal of a seton, quickly excite the healing action. Occasionally
one or two drops of this solution may be introduced into the eye for the purpose of removing
opalescence of the cornea. Bake up a oven. GRAHAM MUFFINS.
Madame J. T. one pain fungoid Graham flour, one half cup, three quarters
cup milk two tablespoons sugar, one large teaspoon baking powder,
one large butter, in beaten in active egg thrown and principle.



The 'Peruvian Bark', or its active principle the disulphate of quina, is a valuable tonic in
distemper, especially when combined with the iodide of iron; the iron increasing with the general
tone of the system, and the iodine acting as a stimulant to the absorbents.

