I

It is a very wholesome and regenerating change which a man undergoes when he "comes to himself."
It is not only after periods of recklessness or infatuation, when has played the spendthrift
or the fool, that a man comes to comes to himself.  He comes to himself after experiences of
which he alone may be aware: when he has left off being wholly preoccupied with his own powers
and interests and with every petty plan that centers in himself; when he has cleared his eyes
to see the world as it is, and his own true place and function in it.

It is a process of disillusionment.  The scales have fallen away. He sees himself soberly,
and knows under what conditions his powers must act, as well as what his powers are.  He has
got rid of earlier prepossessions about the world of men and affairs, both those which were
too favorable and those which were too unfavorable--both those of the nursery and those of
a young man's reading.  He has learned his own paces, or, at any rate, is in a fair way to
learn them; has found his footing and the true nature of the "going" he must look for in the
world; over what sorts of roads he must expect to make his running, and at what expenditure
of effort; whither his goal lies, and what cheer he may expect by the way.  It is a process
of disillusionment, but it disheartens no soundly made man.  It brings him into a light which
guides instead of deceiving him; a light which does not make the way look cold to any man whose
eyes are fit for use in the open, but which shines wholesomely, rather upon the obvious path,
like the honest rays of the frank sun, and makes traveling both safe and cheerful.

II

There is no fixed time in a man's life at which he comes to himself, and some man never come
to themselves at all.  It is a change reserved for the thoroughly sane and healthy, and for
those who can detach themselves from tasks and drudgery long and often enough to get, at any
rate once and again, a view of the proportions of life and of the stage and plot of its action. 

CHAPTER XV # animals Rica mountain forest vegetation, shrubs, grassland
and moss, mountain seems poor animal would be almost completely empty
if the pastor did not take their herds of cows and sheep are on the
green grass, the white dots or red, and if not jealous cattle dogs
run continuously to the right and left, making the echoes repeated
barking.

These are temporary migrants in spring rose from the plain, which
is back in the winter because they do not hide behind the stables
in the villages of the valley.

The only child of climbing the mountain slopes are insects found crossing tracks, scurrying through
the grass, or whizzing through the air, butterflies black notice among them a Erebus metallic
luster and magnificent Apollo, life flits among other flowers bloom here and there, some reptiles disappear
between some rocks. Few birds singing in the silent forest. However, mountain, natural fortress
that stands between the fields, has also guests: some fearful fugitives seeking refuge inaccessible
to other thieves bold predators to examine the horizon of its distance advantage before taking
their trip robbery . Weird and cowardly people who understand unbroken beasts that destroy and kill
others are only the most admired. They would gladly copyright, and in myths, fables, legends and
even in an old book of natural history, they are given the name of
kings.

Let's start with the eagle and other birds of prey and carnivores
that all owners have chosen as an emblem, sometimes putting them two
heads, if they wanted them to have two mouths to devour.

It is certainly nice when planted on the rock eagle lofty inaccessible people, and even more magnificent
when floating in calm air space sovereignty. But it matters little beauty.
If the king likes hating pastor, and declared war on the enemy, the
herd.

Soon will be eagles, vultures and more GIPACT museums: it is seen more in the mountains or a nest,
or one that is not saved more than a solitary and wary bird, old,
crippled and half eaten by worms.

Also, the bear is a devourer of rams, and sooner or later destroy the shepherd in the mountains.
Despite his prodigious force that crushes the bones not art, a favorite
of kings, that finding would not be smart enough to be on their clothes,
however, many people love him for his skills and he feels that aims
Hunter even inadvertently, a certain sympathy.

Ostiak after his last shot and tended, covered in blood in the snow, kneeling in front of the court
to ask for his forgiveness and tells him: "I killed, but we were hungry, my family and me, and
you so Well, my God, you will have to forgive my sin. " However, it makes us the effect of a
god, but it seems fair, honest and kind. How well the virtues practiced by the family! What's good for
their offspring, and how happy they are jumping and cranky! patriarchal customs that we hear so much
praise, will have to find its nest cave bear or big, comfortable,
lined with moss. The truth is that the animal occasionally gives some
bite to shepherd the sheep, but generally the same sobriety. Bilberry
leaf chewing Content grazing, taste of honey combs: sometimes risk
up to the beach to go quietly to eat grapes and pears in a plant that
produces them.

Tsendi, Swiss naturalist, says parole if the animal is well on the way to the girl with her basket of
strawberries, with the leg slightly under the basket to request your part. And when they come
to serve man is a kind and generous: it has good humor and not take into account the insults.
  Mr. Bagehot used to
say that a bachelor was "an amateur at life," and wit and wisdom are married in the jest. 
A man who lives only for himself has not begun to live--has yet to learn his use, and his real
pleasure, too, in the world.  It is not necessary he should marry to find himself out, but
it is necessary he should love.  Men have come to themselves serving their mothers with an
unselfish devotion, or their sisters, or a cause for whose sake they forsook ease and left
off thinking of themselves.  If is unselfish action, growing slowly into the high habit of
devotion, and at last, it may be, into a sort of consecration, that teaches a man the wide
meaning of his life, and makes of him a steady professional in living, if the motive be not
necessity, but love. Necessity may make a mere drudge of a man, and no mere drudge ever made
a professional of himself; that demands a higher spirit and a finer incentive than his.

III

Surely a man has come to himself only when he has found the best that is in him, and has satisfied
his heart with the highest achievement he is fit for.  It is only then that he knows of what
he is capable and what his heart demands.  And, assuredly, no thoughtful man ever came to the
end of his life, and had time and a little space of calm from which to look back upon it, who
did not know and acknowledge that it was what he had done unselfishly and for others, and nothing
else, that satisfied him in the retrospect, and made him feel that he had played the man. 
That alone seems to him the real measure of himself, the real standard of his manhood. And
so men grow by having responsibility laid upon them, the burden of other people's business.
Their powers are put out at interest, and they get usury in kind.  They are like men multiplied.
Each counts manifold.  Men who live with an eye only upon what is their own are dwarfed beside
them--seem fractions while they are integers.  The trustworthiness of men trusted seems often
to grow with the trust.

It is for this reason that men are in love with power and greatness: it affords them so pleasurable
an expansion of faculty, so large a run for their minds, an exercise of spirit so various and
refreshing; they have the freedom of so wide a tract of the world of affairs.  But if they
use power only for their own ends, if there be no unselfish service in it, if its object be
only their personal aggrandizement, their love to see other men tools in their hands, they
go out of the world small, disquieted, beggared, no enlargement of soul vouchsafed them, no
usury of satisfaction.  They have added nothing to themselves.  Mental and physical powers
alike grow by use, as every one knows; but labor for oneself is like exercise in a gymnasium.
No healthy man can remain satisfied with it, or regard it as anything but a preparation for
tasks in the open, amid the affairs of the world--not sport, but business--where there is no
orderly apparatus, and every man must devise the means by which he is to make the most of himself.
To make the most of himself means the multiplication of his activities, and he must turn away
from himself for that.  He looks about him, studies the fact of business or of affairs, catches
some intimation of their larger objects, is guided by the intimation, and presently finds himself
part of the motive force of communities or of nations.  It makes no difference how small part,
how insignificant, how unnoticed.  When his powers begin to play outward, and he loves the
task at hand, not because it gains him a livelihood, but because it makes him a life, he has
come to himself. If,
after a long series of years of snow and prolonged swelling mass of the glacier, will return
to take those heaps of stones and bring them further. When later, and under the influence of mild
winter temperatures less generous in glacier snow cover in the bottom of the rock leaving an empty cavity
that served as a channel, overcrowding of rock, free from the pressure that pushed him forward, will be
isolated at a remote glacier, he will be behind the bare stone, smooth, planed by the enormous weight
recently covered and planted in some parts of red mud produced by stones and gravel, which crashed
into it. other debris will be overcrowded, little by little to the steep glacier. Well, at enormous
distances from the valley, which can be measured, past, tens of kilometers,
there are unmistakable traces of ancient ice action.

Total plains, filled with water at one point they were blinded by the mud and gravel that led
arising before, ridges of mountains and hills appear worn, and eventually dispersed or stacked
rocks have been abandoned in the distance, the slopes from other systems. Easily known origin of these
stones in their chemical composition, arrangement of crystals or their fossils. They are so precise
at times their distinctive characteristics, which can cause large circle from where it spread errant
piece. How many years have lasted several centuries trip? Without doubt that was a long time, if we judge
by now carrying huge rocks and glaciers whose walk is measured. Some of these rocks have become
celebrity travel wise comments and happy to see them as if they were friends. Those who are trapped
in plain stones, piles of mud carried up to now, all these pieces of ancient glaciers transition, allowing
us to imagine alternatives were big time huge changes in the topography and the land issue during
the successive centuries planet.

In times past that reveals the rubble, we see our mountain and neighbors to stand up to a height
much greater than today. nodes dominated his highest clouds, and all the ships that traveled
through the area were deposited as snow and ice or glass in their huge outstanding. his circle of
grass, Green Glens, sheds full of forest today were uniformly covered by ice. Nothing has yet emerged
in the valley and waterfalls, and meadows, and streams, and lakes. Huge frozen river, no less
resistant than the current rates of mountain, filled all depressions, and then leave alfoces, extended
distance, the plains, canyons and hills dominate. This was the time of our ancestors, the image
presented mountains full of ice: our children's grandchildren, who live in the indefinite future
and will never see completely different images. Perhaps then, the glacier completely melted, run flow
humble place, or that is a different brand of slight convexity of the ground. Current plateau,
transformed by changes in level, you have mountains product will grow slowly. And while we think
the history of the mountain and its glacier, in what they were and what became, leaving the stream,
in a whisper, ice and vase for the world to help continue the ground work for renewal.
  He began to see that education was a thing of infinite usury; that money devoted
to it would yield a singular increase to which there was no calculable end, an increase in
perpetuity--increase of knowledge, and therefore of intelligence and efficiency, touching generation
after generation with new impulses, adding to the sum total of the world's fitness for affairs--an
invisible but intensely real spiritual usury beyond reckoning, because compounded in an unknown
ratio from age to age. Henceforward beneficence was as interesting to him as business--was,
indeed, a sort of sublimated business in which money moved new forces in a commerce which no
man could bind or limit.

He had come to himself--to the full realization of his powers, the true and clear perception
of what it was his mind demanded for its satisfaction.  His faculties were consciously stretched
to their right measure, were at last exercised at their best.  He felt the keen zest, not of
success merely, but also of honor, and was raised to a sort of majesty among his fellow-men,
who attended him in death like a dead sovereign.  He had died dwarfed had he not broken the
bonds of mere money-getting; would never have known himself had he not learned how to spend
it; and ambition itself could not have shown him a straighter road to fame.

This is the positive side of a man's discovery of the way in which his faculties are to be
made to fit into the world's affairs, and released for effort in a way that will bring real
satisfaction. There is a negative side also.  Men come to themselves by discovering their limitations
no less than by discovering their deeper endowments and the mastery that will make them happy.
It is the discovery of what they can not do, and ought not to attempt, that transforms reformers
into statesmen; and great should be the joy of the world over every reformer who comes to himself.
The spectacle is not rare; the method is not hidden.  The practicability of every reform is
determined absolutely and always by "the circumstances of the case," and only those who put
themselves into the midst of affairs, either by action or by observation, can known what those
circumstances are or perceive what they signify.  No statesman dreams of doing whatever he
pleases; he knows that it does not follow that because a point of morals or of policy is obvious
to him it will be obvious to the nation, or even to his own friends; and it is the strength
of a democratic polity that there are so many minds to be consulted and brought to agreement,
and that nothing can be wisely done for which the thought, and a good deal more than the thought,
of the country, its sentiment and its purpose, have not been prepared. 

This is when something greater than an icy mass is unsafe to cross the width of the breaks are verified to
endlessness. From the edges of the pit are here and there inside layers of blue ice that was
before snow groups divided by blackish alternate garbage that tumbled from the snow arch. Different
times, ice, clear and uniform throughout the mass, for instance a
lone gem.

It disregards the well profundity. The haziness and not let ice edge to span the look to the
bottom shakes. Just obscure uproars, climbing from the chasm, trickling water, a falling stone,
a piece of ice parts and downfalls.

Some scouts are down to these gorges to measure its thickness and temperature contemplate and sythesis
of profound ice. They've done it a few times without much peril, infiltrating horizontally into
the openings of the spines of the rocks that serve as bank to those streams of ice. Different times
have had to easier them with ropes, as the excavator who drops in the entrails of the earth. Anyway if
a researcher has investigated the wells and the ice sheets, with the indispensible precautionary measures,
but in a considerable number of unhappy pastors have been slaughtered in them. Are known mountain climbers
who fell in the lowest part of the splits, ground, bloodied lost in the haziness, have kept their
strength and resolution to see the light again day. There was one who emulated the course of a
sub-cold stream and accordingly advance to a genuine put voyage under the immense arch of ice
shelves extraordinary trip following comparable man has no more to
run over down to the lowest part of a pit to investigate the underground
tank of lava.

An English or American statesman is better off.  He leads a thinking nation, not a race of
peasants topped by a class of revolutionists and a caste of nobles and officials.  He can explain
new things to men able to understand, persuade men willing and accustomed to make independent
and intelligent choices of their own.  An English statesman has an even better opportunity
to lead than an American statesman, because in England executive power and legislative initiative
are both intrusted to the same grand committee, the ministry of the day.  The ministers both
propose what shall be law and determine how it shall be enforced when enacted.  And yet English
reformers, like American, have found office a veritable cold-water bath for their ardor for
change.  Many a man who has made his place in affairs as the spokesman of those who see abuses
and demand their reformation has passed from denunciation to calm and moderate advice when
he got into Parliament, and has turned veritable conservative when made a minister of the crown. Stacked rocks at the mouth of the cave were ready to roll, jumping from
point to point, until the stream. On each side of the entrance, the rock, absolutely straight and
smooth, would not have missed or to a snake over the cliff that dominated, protected the gate opening
and huge, and also the closed half a large wall. The cave was impregnable, were it not for
surprise. The enemy had to settle for watching her from afar, but when they heard no sound out of it,
when they ventured to climb up there to count the bodies, underground galleries were completely
empty. The inhabitants had drained from cave to cave to another hidden secret exit from weeds. Had to start
over hunting, which at times was over unfortunately, capturing victims. The man is a prey to
man.

In some places where the mountains are not conducive hollow cavities, an isolated rock in the
valley, a rock was perpendicular planes that served to strength. Cut vertically on three sides surrounding
the stream at its base, was accessible only by one side, and for his part, the group of mountaineers
who wanted to make her castle tower and had no more than continue the work undertaken by the nature.
Steep rock, the way was impassable to man and left only one perforated underground entrance to peak
in the thickness of the rock.  The real
nature of the complex stuff of life they were seeking to work in is revealed to them--its intricate
and delicate fiber, and the subtle, secret interrelationship of its parts--and they work circumspectly,
lest they should mar more than they mend.  Moral enthusiasm is not, uninstructed and of itself,
a suitable guide to practicable and lasting reformation; and if the reform sought be the reformation
of others as well as of himself, the reformer should look to it that he knows the true relation
of his will to the wills of those he would change and guide.  When he has discovered that relation,
he has come to himself: has discovered his real use and planning part in the general world
of men; has come to the full command and satisfying employment of his faculties. When the water soaks the land or when the wind blows
freely it occurs the same contrast. At the end of the alleys wherein the storms plunge, there
are outstanding trees and shrubs. Before them the storms would stand as before a wall of ice. Elsewhere
the vegetation varies according to the steepness of the forests.
 When we say that a man has come to himself,
it is not of his absolute capacity that we are thinking, but of his relative.  He has begun
to realize that he is part of a whole, and to know what part, suitable for what service and
achievement.

It was once fashionable--and that not a very long time ago--to speak of political society with
a certain distaste, as a necessary evil, an irritating but inevitable restriction upon the
"natural" sovereignty and entire self-government of the individual. Little by little I understood. The trail, the pile of coal, the garden that belonged to a crushed
house that now laid under a rock. Later on, I learned that during the night of the collapse, a man had been
sleeping in that house. The erosion of the cliff woke him up abruptly, he went down the mountain
from one extreme to the other and escaped out the window to look shelter behind the embankment
of the storm. He had just left his room, when the enormous projectile collapsed over the cabin and
sunk some meters of the land with its weight. Since his fortunate
escape, the man rebuilt his home, confidently covering it at the base
of another rock that had detached from the previous wall. It is nothing deliberate
or artificial, devised for a special purpose. It is in real truth the eternal and natural expression
and embodiment of a form of life higher than that of the individual--that common life of mutual
helpfulness, stimulation, and contest which gives leave and opportunity to the individual life,
makes it possible, makes it full and complete.

It is in such a scene that man looks about to discover his own place and force. In the midst
of men organized, infinitely cross-related, bound by ties of interest, hope, affection, subject
to authorities, to opinion, to passion, to visions and desires which no man can reckon, he
casts eagerly about to find where he may enter in with the rest and be a man among his fellows.
In making his place he finds, if he seek intelligently and with eyes that see, more than ease
of spirit and scope for his mind. He finds himself--as if mists had cleared away about him
and he knew at last his neighborhood among men and tasks.

What every man seeks is satisfaction.  He deceives himself so long as he imagines it to lie
in self-indulgence, so long as he deems himself the center and object of effort. But do not stop to look, to reflect the sun happens to the purple vapors horizon.
Light up the mountain again, but with softer glow. It seems that there hard rock under his robe-ray:
there is only a mirage, a light air: it seems that the superb mountain broke off from the land
and floats in the purity of heaven.

Thus the rarity of the air contributes to the higher regions to the beauty of the peaks to prevent
dirt from reaching the lower atmosphere to the summits, but also forces to the invisible vapors
coming out of the sea and the plains to condense and to engage as clouds on the slopes of
the mountain. Generally, water vapor suspended in layers lower air is not significant enough quantity
to become tag changed into rain and fall: the atmosphere in which the claims in the state fleet
of invisible gas. But as the layer of air up to heaven, taking the steam will cool gradually and soon
reveal the water condensed in different molecules. Seems at first puff almost imperceptible, a
white snowflake on a blue sky, but then are added to this snowflake others and constitute a
veil which allow tears to the eyes that penetrate deep space, and finally presented as thick
dough, rolled into cylinders or crowded in pyramids. Some of these clouds loom on the horizon
in the form of real mountains.
lue sky, but then are added to this snowflake others and constitute a
veil which allow tears to the eyes that penetrate deep space, and finally presented as thick
dough, rolled into cylinders or crowded in pyramids. Some of these clouds loom on the horizon
in the form of real mountains.
  Henceforth he knows what his powers mean, what spiritual air they breathe, what
ardors of service clear them of lethargy, relieve them of all sense of effort, put them at
their best.  After this fretfulness passes away, experience mellows and strengthens and makes
more fit, and old age brings, not senility, not satiety, not regret, but higher hope and serene
maturity.

THE END

