Jimmie had been laid off for a couple of days at the shop, and he told how he had put this
time to good use, getting announcements of the meeting into the stores. There was an old Scotchman
in a real estate office just across the way. "Git oot!" he said. "So I thought I'd better git
oot!" said Jimmie. And then, taking his life into his hands, he had gone into the First National
Bank. There was a gentleman walking across the floor, and Jimmie went up to him and held out
one of the placards with the picture of the Candidate. "Would you be so good as to put this
in your window?" he inquired; and the other looked at it coldly. Then he smiled--he was a good
sort, apparently. "I don't think my customers would patronize your business," he said; but
Jimmie went at him to take some tickets and learn about Socialism--and would you believe it,
he had actually shelled out a dollar! "I found out afterwards that it was Ashton Charmers,
the president of the bank!" said Jimmie. "I'd a' been scared, if I'd a' known."

He had not meant to talk about himself; he was just trying to entertain a tired Candidate,
to keep him from brooding over a world going to war. But the Candidate, listening, found tears
trying to steal into his eyes. He watched the figure before him--a bowed, undernourished little
man, with one shoulder lower than the other, a straggly brown moustache stained with coffee,
and stumpy black teeth, and gnarled hands into which the dirt and grease were ground so deeply
that washing them would obviously be a waste of time. His clothes were worn and shapeless,
his celluloid collar was cracked and his necktie was almost a rag. You would never have looked
at such a man twice on the street--and yet the Candidate saw in him one of those obscure heroes
who are making a movement which is to transform the world.

V

"Comrade Higgins," said the Candidate, after a bit, "let's you and me run away."

Jimmie looked startled. "How?"

"I mean from the Committee, and from the meeting, and from everything." And then, seeing the
dismay in the other's face: "I mean, let's take a walk in the country."

"Oh!" said Jimmie.

"I see it through the windows of the railroad-cars, but I don't set foot on it for months at
a time. And I was brought up in the country. Were you?"

"I was brought up everywhere," said the little machinist.

They got up, and paid each their ten cents to the proprietor of the "Buffeteria." Jimmie could
not resist the temptation to introduce his hero, and show a pious Catholic that a Socialist
Candidate had neither hoofs nor horns. The Candidate was used to being introduced for that
purpose and had certain spontaneous and cordial words which he had said not less than ten thousand
times before; with the result that the pious Catholic gave his promise to come to the meeting
that night.

They went out; and because some member of the Committee might be passing on Main Street, Jimmie
took his hero by an alley into a back street; and they walked past the glass-factory, which
to the outsider was a long board fence, and across the Atlantic Western railroad tracks, and
past the carpet-factory, a huge four-story box made of bricks; after which the rows of wooden
shacks began to thin out, and there were vacant lots and ash-heaps, and at last the beginning
of farms.

The Candidate's legs were long, and Jimmie's, alas, were short, so he had almost to run. The
sun blazed down on them, and sweat, starting from the Candidate's bald head stole under the
band of his straw hat and down to his wilting collar; so he took off his coat and hung it over
his arm, and went on, faster than ever. Jimmie raced beside him, afraid to speak, for he divined
that the Candidate was brooding over the world-calamity, the millions of young men marching
out to slaughter. On the placards which Jimmie had been distributing in Leesville, there were
two lines about the Candidate, written by America's favourite poet:

    As warm heart as ever beat
    Betwixt here and judgement seat.

So they went on for perhaps an hour, by which time they were really in the country. They came
to a bridge which crossed the river Lee, and there the Candidate suddenly stopped, and stood
looking at the water sliding below him, and at the vista through which it wound, an avenue
of green trees with stretches of pasture and cattle grazing. "That looks fine," he said. "Let's
go down." So they climbed a fence, and made their way along the river for a distance, until
a turn of the stream took them out of sight of the road.

There they sat on a shelving bank, and mopped the perspiration from their foreheads and necks,
and gazed into the rippling current. You couldn't exactly say it was crystal clear, for when
there is a town every ten miles or so along a stream, with factories pouring various kinds
of chemicals into it, the job becomes too much for the restoring forces of Mother Nature. But
it would take a dirty stream indeed not to look inviting in midsummer after a four-mile walk.
So presently the Candidate turned to Jimmie, with a mischievous look upon his face. "Comrade
Higgins, were you ever in a swimmin' hole?"

"Sure I was!" said Jimmie.

"Where?"

"Everywhere. I was on the road off an' on ten years--till I got married."

"Well," said the Candidate, still smiling, "what do you say?"

"I say sure!" replied Jimmie.

He was almost beside himself with awe, at this unbelieveable strange fortune, this real comradeship
with the hero of his dreams. To Jimmie this man had been a disembodied intelligence, a dispenser
of proletarian inspiration, a supernatural being who went about the country standing upon platforms
and swaying the souls of multitudes. It had never occurred to Jimmie that he might have a bare
body, and might enjoy splashing about in cool water like a boy playing "hookey" from school.
The saying is that familiarity breeds contempt, but for Jimmie it bred rapture.

VI

They walked home again, more slowly. The Candidate asked Jimmie about his life, and Jimmie
told the story of a Socialist--not one of the leaders, the "intellectuals", but of the "rank
and file". Jimmie's father was a working man out of a job, who had left his family before Jimmie
had joined it; Jimmie's mother had died three years later, so he did not remember her, nor
could he recall a word of the foreign language he had spoken at home, nor did he even know
what the language was. He had been taken in charge by the city, and farmed out to a negro woman
who had eight miserable starvelings under her care, feeding them on gruel and water, and not
even giving them a blanket in winter. You might not think that possible--

"I know America," put in the Candidate.

Jimmie went on. At nine he had been boarded with a woodsaw man, who worked him sixteen hours
a day and beat him in addition; so Jimmie had skipped out, and for ten years had lived the
life of a street waif in the cities and a hobo on the road. He had learned a bit about machinery,
helping in a garage, and then, in a rush-time, he had got a job in the Empire Machine Shops.
He had stayed in Leesville, because he had got married; he had met his wife in a brothel, and
she had wanted to quit the life, and they had taken a chance together.

"I don't tell that to everybody," said Jimmie. "You know--they mightn't understand. But I don't
mind you knowin'."

"Thank you," replied the Candidate, and put his hand on Jimmie's shoulder. "Tell me how you
became a Socialist."

There was nothing special about that, was the answer. In the seventeenth quattrocento, like Bristol besides,
it had an extensive trade with Virginia and the West Indie, and it exported annually forty thousand
barrels of its herrings to the Mediterranean. Minehead is a place with a history; its position
on the Bristol Channel make it a port of considerable town, and throughout the Middle Ages
engineering did a large craft with Ireland, and a foreign trade with France and Espana, only
second to that of Bristol from the West of England. The fellow had come along with
some papers, and Jimmie had read them, and it dawned upon him that here was a movement of his
fellow-workers to put an end to their torments.

"How long ago was that?" asked the Candidate, and Jimmie answered three years. "And you haven't
lost your enthusiasm?" This with an intensity that surprised Jimmie. No, he answered, he was
not that kind. Whatever happened, he would keep pegging away at the task of freeing labour.
He would not see the New Day, perhaps, but his children would see it; and a fellow would work
like the devil to save his children.

So they came to the city; and the Candidate pressed Jimmie's arm. "Comrade," he said, "I want
to tell you how much good this little trip has done me. I owe you a debt of gratitude."

"Me?" exclaimed Jimmie.

"You have given me fresh hope and courage, and at a time when I felt beaten. I got into town
this morning, and I'd had no sleep, and I tried to get some in the hotel and couldn't, because
of the horror that's happening. I wrote a dozen telegrams and sent them off, and then I was
afraid to go back to the hotel-room, because I knew I'd only lie awake all afternoon. But now--I
remember that our movement is rooted in the hearts of the people!"

Jimmie was trembling. But all he could say was: "I wish I could do it every Sunday."

"So do I," said the Candidate.

VII

They walked down Main Street, and some way ahead they saw a crowd gathered, filling the pavement
beyond the kerb. "What is that?" asked the Candidate, and Jimmie answered that it was the office
of the Herald. There must be some news.

The other hastened his steps; and Jimmie, striding alongside, fell silent again, knowing that
the gigantic burden and woe of the world was falling upon his hero's shoulders once more. They
came to the edge of the crowd, and saw a bulletin in front of the newspaper office. But it
was too far away for them to read. "What is it?" they asked.

"It says the Germans are going to march into Belgium. And they've shot a lot of Socialists
in Germany."

"WHAT?" And the Candidate's hand clutched Jimmie's arm.

"That's what it says."

"My God!" exclaimed the man. And he began pushing his way into the crowd, with Jimmie in his
wake. They got to the bulletin, and stood reading the typewritten words--a bare announcement
that more than a hundred leading German Socialists had been executed for efforts to prevent
mobilization. They continued staring, until people pushing behind them caused them to draw
back. Outside the throng they stood, the Candidate gazing into space, and Jimmie gazing at
the Candidate, both of them dumb. It was a fact that they could not have been more shocked
if the news had referred to the members of Local Leesville of the Socialist Party of America.

The pain in the Candidate's face was so evident that Jimmie groped about in his head for something
comforting to say. "At least they done what they could," he whispered.

The other suddenly burst forth: "They are heroes! They have made the name Socialist sacred
for ever!" He rushed on, as if he were making a speech-so strong becomes a life-time habit.
"They have written their names at the very top of humanity's roll of honour! It doesn't make
any difference what happens after this, Comrade--the movement had vindicated itself! All the
future will be changed because of this event!"

He began to walk down the street, talking more to himself than to Jimmie. He was borne away
on the wings of his vision; and his companion was so thrilled that he honestly did not know
where he was. Afterwards, when he looked back upon this scene, it remained the most wonderful
event of his life; he told the story, sooner or later, to every Socialist he met.

Presently the Candidate stopped. "Comrade," he said, "I must go to the hotel. I want to write
some telegrams. You explain to the Committee--I'd rather not see anyone till time for the meeting.
I'll find the way myself."

CHAPTER II

JIMMIE HIGGINS HEARS A SPEECH

I

In the Opera-house were gathered Comrade Mabel Smith and Comrade Meissner and Comrade Goldstein,
the secretary of the Ypsels, and the three members of the Reception Committee--Comrade Norwood,
the rising young lawyer, Comrade Dr. Service, and Comrade Schultze of the Carpet-weavers' Union.
To them rushed the breathless Jimmie. "Have you heard the news?"

"What is it?".

"A hundred Socialist leaders shot in Germany!"

"Herr Gott!" cried Comrade Schultze, in horror; and everyone turned instinctively, for they
knew how this came home to him--he had a brother who was a Socialist editor in Leipzig, and
who was liable for the mobilization.

"Where did you see it?" cried Schultze; and Jimmie told what he knew. And then the clamour
broke forth! Others were called from the back part of the hall, and came running, and there
were questions and cries of dismay. Here, too, it was as if the crime had been committed against
Local Leesville--so completely did they feel themselves one with the victims. In a town where
there was a brewery, needless to say there were German workers a-plenty; but even had this
not been so, the feeling would have been the same, for the Socialists of the world were one,
the soul of the movement was its internationalism. Fratricidal the joints of-- doors and windows,
the races and crevices, before eye, the resolution snow penetrated and piled never up in ridges, will
so that rooms and passages had to be cleared in pavement to the streets....


It was a long time before they thought of any other matter; but finally someone referred to
the trouble which had fallen upon the local--the Candidate had not showed up. And Jimmie exclaimed,
"Why, he's here!" And instantly all turned upon him. Where? When? How?

"He came this morning."

"And why didn't you let us know?" It was Comrade Dr. Service of the Reception Committee who
spoke, and with a decided sharpness in his tone.

"He didn't want anybody to know," said Jimmie.

"Did he want us to go to the train and think he had failed us?"

Sure enough, it was after train-time! Jimmie had entirely forgotten both the train and the
committee, and now he had not the grace to hide his offence. All he could do was to tell his
story--how he had spent the afternoon walking in the country with the Candidate, and how they
had gone swimming, and how they had got the news from the bulletin board, and how the Candidate
had acted and what he had said. Poor Jimmie never doubted but that his own thrill was shared
by all the others; and at the next regular meeting of the local, when Comrade Dr. Service sat
down on some proposition which Jimmie had ventured to make, the little machinist had not the
faintest idea what he had done to deserve the snub. He was lacking in worldly sense, he did
not understand that a prosperous physician, who comes into the movement out of pure humanitarianism,
contributing his prestige and his wealth to the certain detriment of his social and business
interests, is entitled to a certain deference from the Jimmie Higginses, and even from a Candidate.

II

You might have thought that Jimmie would be tired; but this was a day on which the flesh had
no claims. First he helped Comrade Mabel in depositing upon every seat a leaflet containing
a letter from the local candidate for Congress; then he rushed away to catch a street-car,
and spent his last nickel to get to his home and keep his engagement with Lizzie. He would
not make with her the mistake he had made with the Committee, you bet!

He found that Lizzie had faithfully carried out her part of the bargain. The three babies were
done up in bright-coloured calico dresses; she had spent the morning in washing and ironing
these garments--also her own dress, which was half-red and half-green, and of generous, almost
crinoline proportions. Lizzie herself was built on that scale, with broad hips and bosom, big
brown eyes and heavy dark hair. She was a fine strong woman when she had shed her bedraggled
house gown, and Jimmie was proud of his capability as a chooser of wives. It was no small feat
to find a good woman, and to recognize her, where Jimmie had found Lizzie. She was five years
older than he, a Bohemian, having been brought to America when she was a baby. Her former name--you
could hardly call it her "maiden" name, considering the circumstances--was Elizabeth Huszar,
which she pronounced so that for a long time Jimmie had understood it to be Eleeza Betooser.

Jimmie snatched a bite of bread and drank a cup of metallic tasting tea, and packed the family
into the baby-carriage, and trudged the mile and half to the centre of the city. When they
arrived, Lizzie took the biggest child, and Jimmie the other two, and so they trudged into
the Opera-house. On this hot night it was like holding three stoves in your arms, and if the
babies woke up and began to cry, the parents would have the painful choice of missing something,
or else facing the disgusted looks of everyone about them. In Belgium, at the "People's House",
the Socialists maintained a creche, but the American movement had not yet discovered that useful
institution.

Already the hall was half-full, and a stream of people pouring in. Jimmie got himself and family
seated, and then turned his eager eyes proudly to survey the scene. The would-be-congressman's
circulars which he had placed in the seats were now being read by the sitters; the banners
he had so laboriously hung were resplendent on the walls; there was a pitcher of ice water
on the speaker's table, and a bouquet of flowers and a gavel for the chairman; the seats in
the rear of the platform for the Liederkranz were neatly ranged, most of them already occupied
by solid German figures topped by rosy German faces: to each detail of which achievements Jimmie
had lent a hand. He had a pride of possession in this great buzzing throng, and in the debt
they owed to him. They had no idea of it, of course; the fools, they thought that a meeting
like this just grew out of nothing! They paid their ten cents--twenty-five cents for reserved
seats--and imagined that covered everything, with perhaps even a rake-off for somebody! They
would grumble, wondering why the Socialists persisted in charging admission for their meetings--why
they could not let people in free as the Democrats and Republicans did. They would go to Democratic
and Republican meetings, and enjoy the brass band and the fireworks, pyrotechnical and oratorical--never
dreaming it was all a snare paid for by their exploiters!

Well, they would learn about it to-night! Jimmie thought of the Candidate, and how he would
impress this man and that. For Jimmie knew scores who had got tickets, and he peered about
after this one and that, and gave them a happy nod from behind his barricade of babies. Then,
craning his neck to look behind him, suddenly Jimmie gave a start. Coming down the aisle was
Ashton Chalmers, president of the First National Bank of Leesville; and with him-could it be
possible?--old man Granitch, owner of the huge Empire Machine Shops where Jimmie worked! The
little machinist found himself shaking with excitement as these two tall forms strode past
him down the aisle. Of such kind is a ceremony, until a few years ago very common in Devonshire,
where the first armful of corn that is cut he is bound out into a sheaf, called "the nek," and
set from the rest of the buzz. (we have it!) the part is repeated three times, and to get the rest
of the reapers, standing round the man with their reaping-hooks jam
in their hands, the bow at each cry.

At the end with the day's reaping the man present takes the sheaf
and holds it aloft, crying, "we ha'un!"
 The audience began to chafe;
until at last the chairman walked out upon the stage, followed by several important persons
who took front seats. The singers stood up, and the leader waved his wand, and forth came the
Marseillaise: a French revolutionary hymn, sung in English by a German organization--there
was Internationalism for you! With full realization of the solemnity of this world-crisis,
they sang as if they hoped to be heard in Europe.

And then rose the Chairman--Comrade Dr. Service. He was a fine, big figure of a man, with grey
moustache and beard trimmed to a point; his swelling chest was covered by clean white linen
and tight-fitting broad-cloth, and he made a most imposing chairman, reflecting credit on the
movement. He cleared his throat, and told them that they had come that evening to listen to
one of America's greatest orators, and that therefore he, the Chairman, would not make a speech;
after which he proceeded to make a speech. He told them what a grave hour this was, and how
the orator would tell them its meaning, after which he proceeded to tell most of the things
which the orator would tell. This was a weakness of Comrade Dr. Service--but one hesitated
to point it out to him, because of his black broad-cloth suit and his imposing appearance,
and the money he had put up to pay for the hall.

At last, however, he called on the Liederkranz again, and a quartet sang a German song and
then an encore. And then came Comrade Gerrity, the hustling young insurance-agent who was organizer
for the local, and whose task it was to make a "collection speech." He had humorous ways of
extracting money--"Here I am again!" he began, and everybody smiled, knowing his bag of tricks.
While he was telling his newest funny story, Jimmie was unloading the littlest infant into
Lizzie's spare arm, and laying the other on the seat with its head against her knee, and getting
himself out into the aisle, hat in hand and ready for business; and as soon as the organizer
ceased and the Liederkranz resumed, Jimmie set to work gathering the coin. His territory was
the reserved-seat section up in front, where sat the two mighty magnates. Jimmie's knees went
weak, but he did his duty, and was tickled to see each of the pair drop a coin into the hat,
to be used in overthrowing their power in Leesville!

IV

The hats were taken to the box-office and emptied, and the collection-takers and the Liederkranz
singers resumed their seats. An expectant hush fell--and then at last there strode out on the
stage the Candidate. What a storm broke out! Men cheered and clapped and shouted. He took his
seat modestly; but as the noise continued, he was justified in assuming that it was meant for
him, and he rose and bowed; as it still continued, he bowed again, and then again. It had been
the expectation of Comrade Dr. Service to come forward and say that, of course, it was not
necessary for anyone to introduce the speaker of the evening; but the audience, as if it had
read the worthy doctor's intention, kept on applauding, until the Candidate himself advanced,
and raised his hand, and began his speech.

He did not stop for any oratorical preliminaries. This, he said--and his voice trembled with
emotion--was the solemnest hour that men had ever faced on earth. That day on the bulletin-board
of their local newspaper he had read tidings which had moved him as he had never been moved
in his life, which had almost deprived him of the power to walk upon a stage and address an
audience. Perhaps they had not heard the news; he told it to them, and there sprang from the
audience a cry of indignation.

Yes, they might well protest, said the speaker; nowhere on all the bloody pages of history
could you find a crime more revolting than this! The masters of Europe had gone mad in their
lust for power; they had called down the vengeance of mankind upon their crowned and coronetted
heads. Here to-night he would tell them--and the speaker's hoarse and raucous voice mounted
to a shout of rage--he would tell them that in signing the death-warrant of those heroic martyrs,
they had sealed the doom of their own order, they had torn out the foundation-stones from the
structure of capitalist society! The speaker's voice seemed to lift the audience from its seats,
and the last words of the sentence were drowned in a tumult of applause.

Silence fell again, and the man went on. He had peculiar mannerisms on the platform. His lanky
form was never still for an instant. He hurried from one end of the stage to the other; he
would crouch and bend as if he were going to spring upon the audience, a long, skinny finger
would be shaken before their faces, or pointed as if to drive his words into their hearts.
His speech was a torrent of epigram, sarcasm, invective. He was bitter; if you knew nothing
about the man or his cause, you would find this repellent and shocking. You had to know what
his life had been--an unceasing conflict with oppression; he had got his Socialist education
in jail, where he had been sent for trying to organize the wage-slaves of a gigantic corporation.
His rage was the rage of a tender-hearted poet, a lover of children and of Nature, driven mad
by the sight of torment wantonly inflicted. And if ever he had seemed to you an extremist,
too angry to be excused, here to-night he had his vindication, here to-night you saw him as
a prophet. For now the master-class had torn the mask from its face, and revealed to the whole
world what were its moral standards! At last men saw their rulers face to face!

They have plunged mankind into a pit of lunacy. "They call it war," cried the speaker; "but
I call it murder." And he went on to picture to them what was happening in Europe at that hour--he
brought the awful nightmare before their eyes, he showed them homes blown to pieces, cities
given to the flames, the bodies of men pierced by bullets or torn to fragments by shells. He
pictured a bayonet plunged into the abdomen of a man; he made you see the ghastly deed, and
feel its shuddering wickedness. Men and women and children sat spellbound; and for once no
man could say aloud or feel in his heart that the pictures of a Socialist agitator were overdrawn--no,
not even Ashton Chalmers, president of the First National Bank of Leesville, or old Abel Granitch,
proprietor of the Empire Machine Shops!

V

And what was the cause of this blackest of calamities? The speaker went on to show that the
determining motive was not racial jealousy, but commercial greed. The fountain-head of the
war was world-capitalism, clamouring for markets, seeking to get rid of its surplus products,
to keep busy its hordes of wage-slaves at home. He analysed the various factors; and now, with
the shadow of the European storm over their heads--now at last men and women would listen,
they would realize that the matter concerned them. He warned them--let them not think that
they were safe from the hoofs of this war-monster, just because they were three thousand miles
away! Capitalism was a world phenomenon, and all the forces of parasitism and exploitation
which had swept Europe into this tragedy were active here in America. The money-masters, the
profit-seekers, would leap to take advantage of the collapse over the seas; there would be
jealousies, disputes--let the audience understand, once for all, that if world-capitalism did
not make this a world-war, it would be only because the workers of America took warning, and
made their preparations to frustrate the conspiracy.

This was what he had come for, this was the heart of his message. Many of those who listened
were refugees from the old world, having fled its oppressions and enslavements. He pleaded
with them now, as a man whose heart was torn by more suffering than he could bear--let there
be one part of the fair garden of earth into which the demons of destruction might not break
their way! Let them take warning in time, let them organize and establish their own machinery
of information and propaganda--so that when the crisis came, when the money-masters of America
sounded the war-drums, there might be--not the destruction and desolation which these masters
willed, but the joy and freedom of the Co-operative Commonwealth!

"How many years we Socialists have warned you!" he cried. "But you have doubted us, you have
believed what your exploiters have told you! And now, in this hour of crisis, you look at Europe
and discover who are the real friends of humanity, of civilization. What voice comes over the
seas, protesting against war? The Socialist voice, and the Socialist voice alone! And to-night,
once more, you hear it in this hall! You men and women of America, and you exiles from all
corners of the world, make this pledge with me--make it now, before it is too late, and stand
by it when the hour of crisis comes! Swear it by the blood of our martyred heroes, those slaughtered
German Socialists--swear that, come what will, and when and how it will, that no power on earth
or in hell beneath the earth shall draw you into this fratricidal war! Fellow either side rise the
slate hills, bare, waterless who, and treeless everybody. Heddon is there the corruption of the
time "etin," which means a giant, and the spirit which thus named this wild valley had indeed a
sense of the poetry and grandeur of-- months. Let them take
the bombs and shells they have made and go out against one another! Let them blow their own
class to pieces--but let them not seek to lure the working-people into their quarrels!"

Again and again, in answer to such exhortations, the audience broke out into shouts of applause.
Men raised their hands in solemn pledge; and the Socialists among them went home from the meeting
with a new gravity in their faces, a new consecration in their hearts. They had made a vow,
and they would keep it--yes, even though it meant sharing the fate of their heroic German comrades!

--And then in the morning they opened their papers, looking eagerly for more details about
the fate of the heroic German comrades, and they found none. Day after day, morning and afternoon,
they looked for more details, and found none. On the contrary, to their unutterable bewilderment,
they learned that the leaders of the German Social-Democracy had voted for the war-budgets,
and that the rank and file of the movement were hammering out the goose-step on the roads of
Belgium and France! They could not bring themselves to believe it; even yet they have not brought
themselves to realize that the story which thrilled them so on that fatal Sunday afternoon
was only a cunning lie sent out by the German war-lords, in the hope of causing the Socialists
of Belgium and France and England to revolt, and so give the victory to Germany!

CHAPTER III

JIMMIE HIGGINS DEBATES THE ISSUE

I

