"I've not been out of my natural associations," Gertrude answered, hotly. "The Cliffords are
as well-bred and respectable as we are;" and she went to her room.

It was a long, dismal day for her, but, as she had said to her father, she would not permit
herself to drift. Her nature was too positive for idle, sentimental dreaming. Feeling that
she was approaching one of the crises of her life, she faced it resolutely and intelligently.
She went over the past weeks from the time she had first met Burt under the Gothic willow arch,
and tried to analyze not only the power he had over her, but also the man himself. "I have
claimed to papa that I am a woman, and I should act like one," she thought. A few things grew
plain. Her interest in Burt had been a purely natural growth, the unsought result of association
with one who had proved congenial. He was so handsome, so companionable, so vital with spirit
and mirthfulness, that his simple presence was exhilarating, and he had won his influence like
the sun in spring-time. Had he the higher qualities of manhood, those that could sustain her
in the inevitable periods when life would be no laughing matter? Could he meet the winter of
life as well as the summer? She felt that she scarcely knew him well enough to be sure of this,
but she was still sufficiently young and romantic to think, "If he should ever love me as I
can love him, I could bring out the qualities that papa fears are lacking." His courage seemed
an earnest of all that she could desire.

Amy's feeling toward him, and the question whether he had ever regarded her in another light
than that of a sister, troubled her the most. Amy's assurance of implicit trust, and her promise
to deserve it, appeared to stand directly in her path, and before that stormy day closed she
had reached the calmness of a fixed resolution. "If Amy loves him, and he has given her reason
to do so, I shall not come between them, cost me what it may. I'll do without happiness rather
than snatch it from a friend who has not only spoken her trust, but proved it."

Therefore, although her heart gave a great bound as she saw Burt riding toward the house in
the late afternoon, she went to her father and said: "Mr. Clifford is coming. I wish you would
be present during his call."

The young fellow was received cordially, and Mr. Hargrove acknowledged his indebtedness so
feelingly that Burt flushed like a girl, and was greatly embarrassed. He soon recovered himself,
however, and chatted in his usual easy and spirited way. Before he left he asked, hesitatingly,
"Would you like a souvenir of our little episode yesterday?" and took from his pocket the rattles
of the snake he had killed.

"It was not a little episode," Gertrude replied, gravely. "I shall indeed value the gift, for
it will remind me that I have a friend who did not count the cost in trying to help me."

Impetuous words rose to Burt's lips, but he checked them in time. Trembling for his resolutions,
he soon took his departure, and rode homeward in deeper disquiet than he had ever known. He
gave Amy her friend's messages, and he also, in spite of himself, afforded her a clearer glimpse
of what was passing in his mind than she had received before. "I might have learned to love
him in time, I suppose," she thought, bitterly, "but it's impossible now. I shall build my
future on no such uncertain foundation, and I shall punish him a little, too, for it's time
he had a lesson."

CHAPTER XLVII

DISQUIET WITHIN AND WITHOUT

Amy would scarcely have been human had she felt otherwise, for it appeared that Burt was in
a fair way to inflict a slight that would touch the pride of the gentlest nature. During her
long residence abroad Amy had in a general and unthinking way adopted some English ideas on
the subject of marriage. Burt had at first required what was unnatural and repugnant, and she
had resented the demand that she should pass from an age and a state of feeling slightly removed
from childhood to relations for which she was not ready. When he had sensibly recognized his
error, and had appeared content to wait patiently and considerately, she had tacitly assented
to his hopes and those of his parents. Her love and gratitude toward the latter influenced
her powerfully, and she saw no reason why she should disappoint them. But she was much too
high-spirited a girl to look with patience on any wavering in Burt. She had not set her heart
on him or sought to be more to him than to a brother, and if he wished for more he must win
and hold the right by undoubted loyalty. The fact that Amy had been brought into the Clifford
family as a daughter and sister had not cheated Nature a moment, as both Burt and Webb had
proved. She was not their sister, and had unconsciously evoked from each of the young men a
characteristic regard. Burt must not be judged too harshly. "you must retrieve, my man-child, that day
is infirm and big, and precedent, as she state, to a'brush felt of
the rheumatiz.'but i am sorry that she has not come to-night.

I trust she will, thus. This ill precipitation wouldn't ache me, so it wouldn't ache her," state
the impetuous Crossing. Humph! She may be young; i think i will call away and see her to-Judy, "state
Mister. Alfred, artwork up the mesa and arrange the shadow on the furniture, so that the beam drop
on the array and the countenance of those about it.
 With all the former's vivacity there was much reserve strength
and magnetism. She was unusually gifted with will power, and having once gained an influence
over a person, she would have, as agents to maintain it, not only her beauty, but tact, keen
insight and a very quick intelligence. Although true herself, she was by no means unsophisticated,
and having once comprehended Burt's character, she would have the power, possessed by few others,
to make the most of him.

Amy was nearer to nature. She would first attract unconsciously, like a rare and beautiful
flower, and the loveliness and fragrance of her life would be undying. Burt had felt her charm,
and responded most decisively; but the tranquil regard of her unawakened heart had little power
to retain and deepen his feeling. She bloomed on at his side, sweet to him, sweet to all. In
Miss Hargrove's dark eyes lurked a stronger spell, and he almost dared to believe that they
had revealed to him a love of which he began to think Amy was not capable. On the generous
young fellow, whose intentions were good, this fact would have very great influence, and in
preserving her supremacy Miss Hargrove would also be able to employ not a little art and worldly
wisdom.

The events that are most desired do not always happen, however, and poor Burt felt that he
had involved himself in complications of which he saw no solution; while Amy's purpose to give
him "a lesson" promised anything but relief. Her plan involved scarcely any change in her manner
toward him. She would simply act as if she believed all that he had said, and take it for granted
that his hopes for the future were unchanged. She proposed, however, to maintain this attitude
only long enough to teach him that it is not wise, to say the least, to declare undying devotion
too often to different ladies.

The weather during the night and early on the following morning was puzzling. It might be that
the storm was passing, and that the ragged clouds which still darkened the sky were the rear-guard
or the stragglers that were following the sluggish advance of its main body; or it might be
that there was a partial break in Nature's forces, and that heavier cloud-masses were still
to come. Mr. Clifford inclined to the latter view. "Old Storm King is still shrouded," he said
at the breakfast-table, "and this heavy, sultry air does not indicate clearing weather."

Events soon confirmed his opinion. Nature seemed bent on repeating the programme of the preceding
day, with the purpose of showing how much more she could do on the same line of action. There
was no steady wind from any quarter. Converging or conflicting currents in the upper air may
have brought heavy clouds together in the highlands to the southwest, for although the rain
began to fall heavily, it could not account for the unprecedented rise of the streams. In little
over an hour there was a continuous roar of rushing water. Burt, restless and almost reckless,
went out to watch the floods. He soon returned to say that every bridge on the place had gone,
and that what had been dry and stony channels twenty-four hours before were now filled with
resistless torrents.

Webb also put on his rubber suit, and they went down the main street toward the landing. This
road, as it descended through a deep valley to the river, was bordered by a stream that drained
for some miles the northwestern slope of the mountains. For weeks its rocky bed had been dry;
now it was filled with a river yellow as the Tiber. One of the main bridges across it was gone,
and half of the road in one place had been scooped out and carried away by the furious waters.
People were removing their household goods out into the vertical deluge lest they and all they
had should be swept into the river by the torrent that was above their doorsteps. The main
steamboat wharf, at which the "Powell" had touched but a few hours before, was scarcely passable
with boats, so violent was the current that poured over it. The rise had been so sudden that
people could scarcely realize it, and strange incidents had occurred. A horse attached to a
wagon had been standing in front of a store. A vivid flash of lightning startled the animal,
and he broke away, galloped up a side street to the spot where the bridge had been, plunged
in, was swept down, and scarcely more than a minute had elapsed before he was back within a
rod or two of his starting-point, crushed and dead.

Webb soon returned. He had noticed that Amy's eyes had followed him wistfully, and almost reproachfully,
as he went out. Nature's mood was one to inspire awe, and something akin to dread, in even
his own mind. She appeared to have lost or to have relaxed her hold upon her forces. It seemed
that the gathered stores of moisture from the dry, hot weeks of evaporation were being thrown
recklessly away, regardless of consequences. There was no apparent storm-centre, passing steadily
to one quarter of the heavens, but on all sides the lightning would leap from the clouds, while
mingling with the nearer and louder peals was the heavy and continuous monotone from flashes
below the horizon.

He was glad he had returned, for he found Amy pale and nervous indeed. Johnnie had been almost
crying with terror, and had tremblingly asked her mother if Noah's flood could come again.

"No," said Maggie, confidently. "If there was to be another flood, grandpa would have been
told to build an ark;" and this assurance had appeared so obviously true that the child's fears
were quieted. Even Leonard's face was full of gloom and foreboding, when the children were
not present, as he looked out on flooded fields, and from much experience estimated the possible
injury to the farm and the town. Mr. and Mrs. Clifford were quiet and serene. They had attained
a peace which was not easily disturbed, and the old gentleman remarked: "I have seen a worse
storm even in this vicinity. You must remember it, Leonard."

"But this deluge isn't over," was the reply. "It seems a tremendous reaction from the drought,
and where it will end it is hard to tell, unless this steady downpouring slackens soon."

Leonard's fears were not realized, however. The unusual and tropical manifestations of the
storm at last ceased, and by night the rain fell softly and gently, as if Nature were penitent
over her wild passion. The results of it, however, were left in all directions. Many roads
were impassable; scores of bridges were gone. The passengers from the evening boats were landed
on a wharf partially submerged, and some were taken in boats to a point whence they could reach
their carriages.

In the elements' disquiet Burt had found an excuse for his own, and he had remained out much
of the day. He had not called on Miss Hargrove again, but had ridden far enough to learn that
the bridges in that direction were safe. All the family had remonstrated with him for his exposure,
and Amy asked him, laughingly, if he had been "sitting on bridges to keep them from floating away."

"You are growing ironical," he answered for he was not in an amiable mood, and he retired early.

CHAPTER XLVIII

IDLEWILD

In the morning Nature appeared to have forgotten both her passion and her penitence, and smiled
serenely over the havoc she had made, as if it were of no consequence.

Amy said, "Let us take the strong rockaway, call for Miss Hargrove, and visit some of the streams";
and she noted that Burt's assent was too undemonstrative to be natural. Maggie decided to go
also, and take the children, while Leonard proposed to devote the day to repairing the damage
to the farm, his brothers promising to aid him in the afternoon.

When at last the party left their carriage at one of the entrances of Idlewild, the romantic
glen made so famous by the poet Willis, a stranger might have thought that he had never seen
a group more in accord with the open, genial sunshine. This would be true of Maggie and the
children. They thought of that they saw, and uttered all their thoughts. The solution of one
of life's deep problems had come to Maggie, but not to the others, and such is the nature of
this problem that its solution can usually be reached only by long and hidden processes. Not
one of the four young people was capable of a deliberately unfair policy; all, with the exception
of Amy, were conscious whither Nature was leading them, and she had thoughts also of which
she would not speak. There was no lack of truth in the party, and yet circumstances had brought
about a larger degree of reticence than of frankness. To borrow an illustration from Nature,
who, after all, was to blame for what was developing in each heart, a rapid growth of root
was taking place, and the flower and fruit would inevitably manifest themselves in time. Miss
Hargrove naturally had the best command over herself. She had taken her course, and would abide
by it, no matter what she might suffer. Burt had mentally set his teeth, and resolved that
he would be not only true to Amy, but also his old gay self. His pride was now in the ascendant.
Amy, however, was not to be deceived, and her intuition made it clear that he was no longer
her old happy, contented comrade. But she was too proud to show that her pride was wounded,
and appeared to be her former self. Webb, as usual, was quiet, observant, and not altogether
hopeless. And so this merry party, innocent, notwithstanding all their hidden thoughts about
each other, went down into the glen, and saw the torrent flashing where the sunlight struck
it through the overhanging foliage. Half-way down the ravine there was a rocky, wooded plateau
from which they had a view of the flood for some distance, as it came plunging toward them
with a force and volume that appeared to threaten the solid foundations of the place on which
they stood. With a roar of baffled fury it sheered off to the left, rushed down another deep
descent, and disappeared from view. Away from working kernel reward, it is working that at least
from the 15,000,000 to$ 20,000,000 has been necessitate by the resource receiving this in
the efficiency of cost data in America.

A quadruplex has not as the ability a the rule that four quadruplex cable have. Instead is
individual to the technology that when one of the good operators is salvage to "reflect" the direct
break for any abasement, same "economy" causes much point of the cut-in of eight identity, hence
of two, as would be the argumentation on the separate map.$ other concoction of the working, merely,
with the apparatus in quadruplex due work, depends entirely upon
the statement of the identity oblige to interrupt crenelation. But this
does not run upon or diminish the Edison use for its wire.
 "I stood here yesterday afternoon," said Burt,
"and then the sight was truly grand."

"Why, it was raining hard in the afternoon!" exclaimed Miss Hargrove.

"Burt seemed even more perturbed than the weather yesterday," Amy remarked, laughing. "He was
out nearly all the time. We were alarmed about him, fearing lest he should be washed away,
dissolved, or something."

"Do I seem utterly quenched this morning?" he asked, in a light vein, but flushing deeply.

"Oh, no, not in the least, and yet it's strange, after so much cold water has fallen on you."

"One is not quenched by such trifles," he replied, a little coldly.

They were about to turn away, when a figure sprang out upon a rock, far up the stream, in the
least accessible part of the glen. They all recognized Mr. Alvord, as he stood with folded
arms and looked down on the flood that rushed by on either side of him. He had not seen them,
and no greeting was possible above the sound of the waters. Webb thought as he carried little
Ned up the steep path, "Perhaps, in the mad current, he sees the counterpart of some period
in his past."

The bridge across the mouth of Idlewild Brook was gone, and they next went to the landing.
The main wharf was covered with large stones and gravel, the debris of the flood that had poured
over it from the adjacent stream, whose natural outlet had been wholly inadequate. Then they
drove to the wild and beautiful Mountainville road, that follows the Moodna Creek for a long
distance. They could not proceed very far, however, for they soon came to a place where a tiny
brook had passed under a wooden bridge. Now there was a great yawning chasm. Not only the bridge,
but tons of earth were gone. The Moodna Creek, that had almost ceased to flow in the drought,
had become a tawny river, and rushed by them with a sullen roar, flanging over the tide was
an old dead tree, on which was perched a fish-hawk. Even while they were looking at him, and
Burt was wishing for his rifle, the bird swooped downward, plunged into the stream with a splash,
and rose with a fish in his talons. It was an admirable exhibition of fearlessness and power,
and Burt admitted that such a sportsman deserved to live.

CHAPTER XLIX

ECHOES OF A PAST STORM

Miss Hargrove returned to dine with them, and as they were lingering over the dessert and coffee
Webb remarked, "By the way, I think the poet Willis has given an account of a similar, or even
greater, deluge in this region." He soon returned from the library, and read the following
extracts: "'I do not see in the Tribune or other daily papers any mention of an event which
occupies a whole column on the outside page of the highest mountain above West Point. An avalanche
of earth and stone, which has seamed from summit to base the tall bluff that abuts upon the
Hudson, forming a column of news visible for twenty miles, has reported a deluge we have had--a
report a mile long, and much broader than Broadway.'"

"Certainly," said Mr. Clifford, "that's the flood of which I spoke yesterday. It was very local,
but was much worse than the one we have just had. It occurred in August of '53. I remember
now that Mr. Willis wrote a good deal about the affair in his letters from Idlewild. What else
does he say?"

Webb, selecting here and there, continued to read: "'We have had a deluge in the valley immediately
around us--a deluge which is shown by the overthrown farm buildings, the mills, dams, and bridges
swept away, the well-built roads cut into chasms, the destruction of horses and cattle, and
the imminent peril to life. It occurred on the evening of August 1, and a walk to-day down
the valley which forms the thoroughfare to Cornwall Landing (or, rather, a scramble over its
gulfs in the road, its upset barns and sheds, its broken vehicles, drift lumber, rocks, and
rubbish) would impress a stranger like a walk after the deluge of Noah.

"'The flood came upon us with scarce half an hour's notice. My venerable neighbor, of eighty
years of age, who had passed his life here, and knows well the workings of the clouds among
the mountains, had dined with us, but hastened his departure to get home before what looked
like a shower, crossing with his feeble steps the stream whose strongest bridge, an hour after,
was swept away. Another of our elderly neighbors had a much narrower escape. The sudden rush
of water alarmed him for the safety of an old building he used for his stable, which stood
upon the bank of the small stream usually scarce noticeable as it crosses the street at the
landing. He had removed his horse, and returned to unloose a favorite dog, but before he could
accomplish it the building fell. The single jump with which he endeavored to clear himself
of the toppling rafters threw him into the torrent, and he was swept headlong toward the gulf
which it had already torn in the wharf on the Hudson. His son and two others plunged in, and
succeeded in snatching him from destruction. Another citizen was riding homeward, when the
solid and strongly embanked road was swept away before and behind him, and he had barely time
to unhitch his horse and escape, leaving his carriage islanded between the chasms. A man who
was driving with his wife and child along our own wall on the river-shore had a yet more fearful
escape: his horse suddenly forced to swim, and his wagon set afloat, and carried so violently
against a tree by the swollen current of Idlewild Brook that he and his precious load were
thrown into the water, and with difficulty reached the bank beyond. A party of children who
were out huckleberrying on the mountain were separated from home by the swollen brook, and
one of them was nearly drowned in vainly attempting to cross it. Their parents and friends
were out all night in search of them. An aged farmer and his wife, who had been to Newburgh,
and were returning with their two-horse wagon well laden with goods, attempted to drive over
a bridge as it unsettled with the current, and were precipitated headlong. The old man caught
a sapling as he went down with the flood, the old woman holding on to his coat-skirts, and
so they struggled until their cries brought assistance.' Other and similar incidents are given.
One large building was completely disembowelled, and the stream coursed violently between the
two halves of its ruins. 'I was stopped,' he writes in another place, 'as I scrambled along
the gorge, by a curious picture for the common highway. The brick front of the basement of
a dwelling-house had been torn off, and the mistress of the house was on her hands and knees,
with her head thrust in from a rear window, apparently getting her first look down into the
desolated kitchen from which she had fled in the night. A man stood in the middle of the floor,
up to his knees in water, looking round in dismay, though he had begun to pick up some of the
overset chairs and utensils. The fireplace, with its interrupted supper arrangements, the dresser,
with its plates and pans, its cups and saucers, the closets and cupboards, with their various
stores and provisions, were all laid open to the road like a sliced watermelon.'"

"Well," ejaculated Leonard, "we haven't so much cause to complain, after hearing of an affair
like that. I do remember many of my impressions at the time, now that the event is recalled
so vividly, but have forgotten how so sudden a flood was accounted for."

"Willis speaks of it on another page," continued Webb, as 'the aggregation of extensive masses
of clouds into what is sometimes called a "waterspout," by the meeting of winds upon the converging
edge of our bowl of highlands. The storm for a whole country was thus concentrated.' I think
there must have been yesterday a far heavier fall of water on the mountains a little to the
southeast than we had here. Perhaps the truer explanation in both instances would be that the
winds brought heavy clouds together or against the mountains in such a way as to induce an
enormous precipitation of vapor into rain. Mr. Willis indicates by the following passage the
suddenness of the flood he describes: 'My first intimation that there was anything uncommon
in the brook was the sight of a gentleman in a boat towing a cow across the meadow under our
library window--a green glade seldom or never flooded. The roar from the foaming precipices
in the glen had been heard by us all, but was thought to be thunder.' Then he tells how he
and his daughter put on their rubber suits and hastened into the glen. 'The chasm,' he writes,
'in which the brook, in any freshet I had heretofore seen, was still only a deep-down stream,
now seemed too small for the torrent. Those giddy precipices on which the sky seems to lean
as you stand below were the foam-lashed sides of a full and mighty river. The spray broke through
the tops of the full-grown willows and lindens. As the waves plunged against the cliffs they
parted, and disclosed the trunks and torn branches of the large trees they had overwhelmed
and were bearing away, and the earth-colored flood, in the wider places, was a struggling mass
of planks, timber, rocks, and roots--tokens of a tumultuous ruin above, to which the thunder-shower
pouring around us gave but a feeble clew. A heavy-limbed willow, which overhung a rock on which
I had often sat to watch the freshets of spring, rose up while we looked at it, and with a
surging heave, as if lifted by an earthquake, toppled back, and was swept rushingly away.'"

"How I would have liked to see it!" exclaimed Miss Hargrove.

"I can see it," said Amy, leaning back, and closing her eyes. "I can see it all too vividly.
I don't like nature in such moods." Then she took up the volume, and began turning the leaves,
and said: "I've never seen this book before. Why, it's all about this region, and written before
I was born. Oh dear, here is another chapter of horrors!" and she read: "Close to our gate,
at the door of one of our nearest and most valued neighbors--a lovely girl was yesterday struck
dead by lightning. A friend who stood with her at the moment was a greater sufferer, in being
prostrated by the same flash, and paralyzed from the waist downward--her life spared at the
cost of tortures inexpressible.'"

Webb reached out his hand to take the book from her, but she sprang aloof, and with dilating
eyes read further: "'Misa Gilmour had been chatting with a handsome boy admirer, but left him
to take aside a confidential friend that she might read her a letter. It was from her mother,
a widow with this only daughter. They passed out of the gate, crossed the road to be out of
hearing, and stood under the telegraph wire, when the letter was opened. Her lips were scarce
parted to read when the flash came--an arrow of intense light-' Oh, horrible! horrible! How
can you blame me for fear in a thunderstorm?"

