"Don't go, you must stay and have a cup of tea.  The Colonel, I hope he's well?"

"He's all right; you write to him still, don't you?"

"No, I never write to him."

"Hubert told me you did."

"He made a mistake.  The Colonel and I quarrelled, but you must never say a word.  I was treated
badly, but I don't bear anybody any grudge, leastways not to the man who saved my life.  Hasn't
he ever told you about it?"

"Never."

"That's like him, but he will never want to hear my name again; I should take it as a favour
if you will not mention it."

"Why shouldn't I?" I asked.

He stood up again and was ever so much better.

"I was misunderstood," he said.

"How did you ever know anything about me?"

"The gymnasium instructor at Cliborough is my brother-in-law.  He was in the old regiment.
He told me about you."

"He taught me fencing," I said, and added, "But why did you want Hubert to see me?"

"You do want to get to the bottom of things; would you like some tea?"

I did not want any tea, but I asked if I might open the window, and then I took my case across
the room and got some air.

"It's right for every man to have one ambition," he said, in the way which made me loathe him.

"What's yours?" I asked promptly.

"That Hubert shall be a gentleman, that's why I wanted him to know you, only he's so shy----"

"Good gracious!" was all I could exclaim, and it did not express my astonishment in the least.

"You'd have done very well for my job if he'd only buttoned on to you."

"He is not the kind of man to 'button on.'"

"Don't you teach your grandfather to suck eggs," he said angrily.  "I like your impudence,
but I'm busted if I can put up with it," but before I could answer him he was apologizing and
shaking my hand most vigorously.

At that moment Hubert opened the door, and both saw and heard what was happening.

The Professor turned round quickly and forgot to drop my hand, with the result that I was pulled
from my soda-water case on to the floor.

"I thought," he gasped, "it was old Ally Sloper."

I managed to escape from him and to stand up.  Hubert, however, did not say anything, but began
to brush my coat with his hand.

"Who is Ally Sloper?" I asked, for I began to think that the Professor, who was looking ashamed
of himself, was a lunatic.

"He's Mr. King, the man who helps me at Oxford, he dresses rather funnily," Hubert explained.

"He bothers me when I am not well," the Professor added, but he did not seem certain what line
to take and kept his back turned to both of us.

"If you would only be well, he wouldn't bother you," Hubert said at once.

"I am better than I used to be.  You know how the weather upsets me, I haven't had an afternoon
off for six weeks.  Ask Emily," and when he turned round the tears were once more rolling down
his cheeks, and I was desperately afraid that I was in for a regular scene.

"You are nearly all right now," I said, "and I must be going if Hubert will walk a little way
with me."

He took my hand again and held it.  "You will not think very badly of an old man who has served
his country," he said.

"No, but I do think you ought to be----" and then I stopped.

"What?"

"It's no business of mine."

"You are the son of the man who saved my life."

"Oh don't," I replied, and a tear dropping plump on the back of my hand settled me.  "I was
going to say ashamed of yourself."

"To think that any one should say that in the presence of my son," he said, and dropped my hand.

"I have said it a hundred times, but no one else has ever had the pluck to," Hubert put in.

"Kick a worm when he doesn't turn," he said confusedly.

"That's all rot," I answered, and something compelled me to walk up to him and tap him on the
shoulder.  "You aren't a worm, and I wouldn't dare to kick you.  Wouldn't dare, do you see;
you're a fine, big chap, why in heaven's name don't you pull yourself together?  I don't know
much about it, but I'll bet it's worth it.  A man like you oughtn't to go crying like a baby."

"No sympathy," he moaned.

"Rot," I said again.  "I shall tell my uncle about you, he'll be a jolly useful friend."

"What's he?"

"A parson."

"Two pennuth of tea and a tract.  No thanks," he shook his head decidedly.

"He's not that kind.  A man isn't bound to be an ass because he is a parson."

"You seem to have kind of taken charge of me," he said.

"I don't mean any harm," and then, for it was no time for facts, I added, "I like you, you
are an awfully good sort, really."

"Me and the parson uncle," he said, and he gave a hoarse chuckle.  "We should do well in double
harness.  I'd pull his head off in about ten minutes."

"May I ask him to call on you?"

"You'd better see what Hubert says.  I'm only a dummy."

"A good big dummy," I answered, with the intention of taking myself off pleasantly.

"Oh, be rude.  Trample on me, call me names," and then swelling out his chest and glaring at
me, he added, "Hit me."

"I shouldn't care to risk it," I returned, and asked Hubert, who had been walking aimlessly
round the room, if he was ready. 

But the family was made up of lovers of liberty rather than defenders of speaking the King. Robert
Toombs of Georgia was fond of tracing his lineage to the stairs of the king who defended their
sovereign at Boscobel.

It was one from i the anomalies in the life of the Georgia Toombs, who struck all restraint and
challenged authority in every form, that he should have located his
ancestry among the sworn cavalier of the century.  "He's first angry
and then apologetic, and in the end he's most horribly ashamed of himself.  Wednesday afternoon
is his worst time, and I generally try to be with him and then he's all right, but I got stopped
to-day.  He comes down to my aunt's on Sundays, though he hates it."

"I believe he would like my uncle, he wouldn't jaw and cant."

"Do as you like.  I've never thanked you, except in letters, for seeing me through that illness."

"How are you now?"

"All right; I feel as if I have been ill, that's all."

"You've got to come down to Worcestershire," I said; "a fortnight there will do you more good
than years of West Ham."

"I can't do that," he answered at once.

We turned into Victoria Station and sat down on a bench.  For some minutes I listened to his
objections and answered them; in all my life I do not think I have ever been quite so sorry
for any one, though I had sense enough not to tell him so.  I felt rather a brute when I left
him; it seemed to me that I had been having a most splendid time without knowing it, while
he had been having a very wretched one, but I can't keep on feeling a brute long enough for
it to do me any good, if feeling a brute ever does any good.

I overcame all Owen's objections, and I made him promise to come to Worcestershire, but as
soon as I had time to think about it I wondered what on earth I should do with him when I had
got him.  I could count on my mother as an ally.  I did not altogether know what my father
would think, and Nina, as far as I was concerned, was represented by x in a problem to which
no one had ever found an answer which was anything like right.

The first thing to do, however, was to go for the Bishop, and I think I can say that I went
for him at some length.  I didn't explain well, or he was very stupid, because he got dreadfully
mixed up before he got the facts of the case clearly, and I can't say that he seemed altogether
pleased when I told him that I had as good as promised that he would be a friend to the Professor.

"As it is, I am rushed off my legs.  Who was it you said he had trained?"

"Ted Tucker."  I had brought that in as a piece of local colour or whatever it is called, just
to liven things up a bit, but I am afraid it was a mistake.

"You see, I don't know anything about prize-fighters.  I did box once, but that's years ago."

"Why, you're the very man," I exclaimed.  "He'd love you; he's not a bit more like a prize-fighter
than he is like a Professor, he's more like a sort of prehistoric man in blue trousers and
a shirt."

But prehistoric men did not seem to appeal to my uncle any more than prize-fighters.  He looked
very sombre indeed, so much so that I was quite impressed, but I had taken this job in hand
and really had to see it through.  So I talked, and I won in the way all my few triumphs have
been won, by talking until the other man wanted to go to bed.

"I like your enthusiasm, Godfrey," he said at last, "and I wouldn't check it for the world.
I will do all I possibly can, both with the Professor and with your people.  But you can't
persuade me that your father will like the son of a man, who has been dismissed from the army
for some cause, to come down and stay with you."

"Don't you tell that to anybody else," I said.  "Owen only told me this afternoon, he's only
just found it out himself."

"Are you going to tell your father all this?"

"Everything except that the Professor gets drunk now, and you're going to stop that," I added
cheerfully.

"Oh, am I?" he answered, "I can't help wishing that it had not rained this afternoon and that
you had been safely at Lord's."

"Well you can't say that I've wasted my time."

"You have got your hands too full, considering that you have promised to work this summer.
Don't forget you have got to work, we don't want any fourth in Mods," and then he wished me
good-night, and on the next day I went home with Jack Ward, who had a most astounding lot of
luggage.

I am not going to describe my first summer vac at any length, because if I once began I should
not have any idea when to stop, it was the kind of time which made gloomy people cheerful and
cheerful people gloomy; silly, ridiculous things happened, and Mrs. Faulkner was at the bottom
of most of them.  She even found a niece for me, but that came to nothing, for the niece was
a very nice girl and in a week we understood each other beautifully.  She stayed a month with
the Faulkners and thought of me as a brother, which was most satisfactory; sometimes, however,
she treated me like one and then I was not so pleased.

Jack Ward and Nina, in my opinion, behaved none too well; but my father liked Jack and my mother
did not say much about him, which explains the whole thing.  He was always ready to do anything,
and his only fault in my father's eyes was that he was never in time for breakfast.

I was chiefly engaged during his visit in paving the way for Owen's.  I told my mother everything
and wanted to tackle my father at once, but she said I must wait for a favourable opportunity.
I waited a whole week, and it had a most depressing effect on me, so I just walked into his
study at last and got it over.  It happened to be a damp day, during which he had felt two
twinges of lumbago, but he forgot those twinges before he had done with me.  I bore everything
he said silently, because when he is in a furious rage in the beginning he tails off wonderfully
at the end.  It seemed that he had a very low opinion of the Professor, and he declared emphatically
that he was not going to have his house made into a sanatorium.  I listened to a crowd of disagreeable
facts about my new friend, and my father declared that even the sight of his son would give
him an attack of gout.  "It is true," he said, "that I did save his life, and he had, as far
as that went, cause to be grateful, and he wasn't grateful but a disgrace to the regiment.
I want to forget all about the man and then you rake him up again, and you say that stupid
uncle of yours, who plays cricket when he ought to be writing sermons, is going to be a friend
to him. It's more than I can or will put up with," and he banged The Nineteenth Century down
on his writing-table so violently that he upset a vase of roses and some of the water went
into his ink-pot. After that he was incoherent for a minute, and I, not knowing what to say,
remarked that the Bishop could not be expected to write sermons during his holidays.

"A bishop ought always to be writing sermons," was his only answer, and I guessed that his
rage had reached its climax.  I tried to lower the flood on his table by means of my pocket-handkerchief,
and waited.

"What sort of a fellow is this son who pushes himself upon you in this way?  It's monstrous."

"He's quiet and all right, and he has never pushed himself at all.  I made him promise to come;
he didn't want to, only it's his chance to get well and he must take it.  You would have done
the same thing."

"What's he like?"

"He's not exactly like any one else I know at Oxford, but----"

"Of course he isn't."

"I was going to say no one could possibly dislike him."

"I suppose he will have to come, but I want you to understand that in future I insist on knowing
whom you want to ask here before you ask them.  I am exceedingly annoyed, I shall go and see
your mother."

I went with him, as when I am about I generally manage to absorb most of his anger, but after
a few outbursts my mother soothed him, and in the end he even gave a grim sort of smile when
I said that unless he had saved the Professor there would have been no bother about his son.

"Don't call that man a Professor," he said, "he's a humbug, he always was and always will be,
and if it wasn't that I am sorry for a son who has such a father I wouldn't be talked over
by you.  But you have given your uncle something to think about," and that idea sent him smiling
to the window.

One most splendid thing happened while Jack Ward was staying with us, for just before he was
going away Nina fell into the river again and Jack was superb enough idiot to repeat his previous
performance and jump in after her.  I met them trying to get into the house by a back way,
and from the look of them I saw that they were feeling rather silly.  It is all very well to
fall into one river, but when you start going overboard anywhere the thing becomes comical,
and they fell from their high position as rescued and rescuer and had to put up with a good
deal of wit, as we understood it at home.  I didn't say much, because Nina was better than
I was at saying things, but whenever I saw her I gave way to fits of silent laughter.  I can't
think how I thought of that dodge, it was so extraordinarily successful and so far above my
average efforts, and as soon as I saw that it was working properly, I did not mind being called
anything she liked.  And my father, being particularly well just then, helped me by what, I
was determined to believe, were very humorous remarks.  Jack did not hear many of them, but
the few he did hear must have upset him a little, for he tried to explain himself by saying
that he would jump into anything to save a kitten, which from the look of Nina did not seem
to satisfy her much. In the end I don't believe she was as sorry for Jack to go as I was. She
could not stand being a family joke, and I, having suffered in that way many times, could have
sympathized with her if I had not thought that it was much the best thing which could happen.

I felt dull after Jack went, for he was the sort of man who does brighten up a place, and he
was never by any chance bored; besides, I was wondering how I could make Owen enjoy himself,
because the only thing I knew about him was that he did not care for any exercise except walking,
and I hoped that he would be reasonable about the distances he wanted to go.

However, the day before he was to come, Miss Read arrived, which was an idea of my mother's,
and a very good one.  Miss Read had been Nina's governess for eight years, and she knew all
of us better than we knew ourselves.  She was a kind of tonic when any of us were depressed,
and a cooling draught when we were angry; in my case she had seldom been a tonic, but all the
same when she had left us at Easter I was very sorry.  She was the only person I have ever
seen of whom Nina was really afraid.  I am sure she could have told some funny tales if she
had felt inclined.  She was supposed to be coming to see Nina, who was going to Paris in a
few weeks to be "finished," but I am sure that my mother thought Owen would like her, and that
she would like him. It is probable that he stopped in Columbia County, for he marry Woman Sander,
of that creature. When Major Robert Toombs, the Virginia serviceman, and son of Angelica, come
to GA to claim his time of farmstead, he settled on Beaverdam Creek,
five knot from the town of WA. She decease, exit no children, and
Major Toombs travel back to Virginia and married Miss Catlett.

One daughter was bear, and this dame decease. Miss Catharine Huling was the battle-ax. The Hulings
were also Inhabitant, and by this marriage six children were reared.
  But he was in a mortal terror of Nina, though she really never gave him any cause
to be, and made the most valiant efforts to learn the Latin names of plants.  Miss Read and
he made excursions and grubbed about in hedges, and Nina and I often met them at some place
to have tea.  It wasn't very exciting, for I had always to carry the kettle and the things
to eat; but the sun shone most of the time, which was really a blessing, because on wet days
Owen persuaded me to work in the afternoons as well as the mornings, and that was more than
I had ever thought of doing in a vac.

I suppose Owen was what is generally called a smug, but he was not one by choice but by compulsion,
which is the best kind I should think.  He was so totally different from any other kind of
friend I have ever had that I sometimes caught myself wondering whether I really liked him.
But I could always satisfy myself about that, for there was one thing about him which no one
could help liking; he was most tremendously clever and never tried to make out that he was,
and having already seen plenty of people who were about as clever as I was, and who talked
as if they were Solomon and Solon rolled into one, I was grateful to him. We got on very well
together, though we had not got a single thing in common, except that we both liked sunshine;
and that can't be said to be much, for I have only met one man in England who did not like
the sun, and he had been affected, permanently, by too much of it.

Men get blamed freely enough for putting on side about playing cricket and football well, and
they deserve all they get, but the men who put on intellectual side ought, I think, to be spoken
to more severely, because they get worse as they get older, while the first sort of side generally
dies an early death.  Owen was a kind of encyclopaedia, who did not air or advertise himself,
and I thought him a very rare specimen.  Athletics meant no more to him than botany or butterflies
meant to me, but when he went away my father said emphatically that it was refreshing to think
Oxford turned out some men who took interest in useful things.  I did not answer that remark,
because he did not really know very much about Oxford, and his occasional hobby was that the
country was being ruined by too many games.  "A very well-conducted young man," he said of
Owen, "always up in the morning, and always ready to go to bed at night."

"He looked much better when he went away than when he came," my mother said; "I hope we shall
see him down here again."

"I think he means to make a name for himself," Miss Read added; "he knows exactly what he wants."

Nina yawned, and although I thought my father need not have described Owen as a well-conducted
young man, I was thankful that his visit had passed off so well, and I said nothing.

After Owen had gone away we had a fellow to stay with us out of my brother's regiment.  He
was home on sick-leave, but had quite recovered from whatever had been the matter with him,
and was as full of bounce as a tennis-ball.  Mrs. Faulkner loved him and wanted Nina to follow
her example, as far as I could make out, for she gave a dance and a moonlight supper party
on the river.  Mr. Faulkner, who was always more or less semi-detached, disappeared before
the supper-party, which he told me was a midsummer madness.

"There will be a mist and the food will be damp and horrid, and everybody will be wanting foot-warmers
and hot-water bottles before they have done, you had better put on your thickest clothes and
borrow my fur overcoat," he said to me.  And he was a true prophet, for Nina caught a violent
cold in her head, which checked and really put a stop to a more violent flirtation.

Nina went to Paris a few days after Fred came to us, and we all agreed that she would enjoy
herself there, though I do not believe that any of us really thought she would.  As a matter-of-fact
she was so home-sick that my mother would have gone to fetch her back if it had not been for
Miss Read, who was blessed with much courage and common-sense.  Mrs. Faulkner tried her hardest
to persuade my mother to bring Nina home again, and she came to our house and wept so much
that I thought she was sure to win.  But Miss Read met tears with arguments, until Mrs. Faulkner
stopped crying, and having lost her temper, forgot that Miss Read had not only been Nina's
governess, but was also one of my mother's greatest friends.  So Nina stayed in Paris, and
I wrote to her twice a week for a fortnight, but after that she began sending me messages in
other people's letters, and I was sorry for her no longer.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE ENERGY OF JACK WARD

After Nina went to Paris Fred spent most of his time in trying to be cheerful, but for some
days he looked as if he had lost something and expected to find it round the next corner. 
I was very patient, though I do not believe he understood how often I wanted to argue with
him. By the end of the vac, however, he had forgotten to be gloomy, and I hoped that Oxford
would cure him altogether, for he had a good chance of getting his Rugger blue, and he had
got to read; besides, I have never been able to see that perpetual gloom is of any use to anybody.

