Typescript converted to computer file by Lee Dunbar  - July 2002

The TRIAL of the WITNESSES of the RESURRECTION of JESUS CHRIST

N.B. Not only Mr. Woolston's objections in his Sixth Discourse on our Saviour's Miracles, but
those also which he and others have published in other Books, are here considered.

First Published about the Year 1729

THE T R I A L OF THE WITNESSES OF THE Resurrection of Jesus

We were, not long since, some Gentlemen of the inns of court together, each to other so well
known, that no man's presence was a confinement to any other, from speaking his mind on any
subject that happened to arise in conversation.  The meeting was without design, and the discourse,
as in like cases, various.  Among other things we fell upon the subject of Woolston's trial
and conviction, which had happened some few days before.  That led to a debate, How the law
finds in such cases? what punishment it inflicts? and, in general, whether the law ought at
all to interpose in controversies of this kind?  We were not agreed in these points.  One,
who maintained the favorable side to Woolston, discovered a great liking  and approbation of
his discourses against the miracles of Christ, and seemed to think his arguments unanswerable.
To which another replied, I wonder that one of your abilities, and bred to the profession of
the law, which teaches us to consider the nature of evidence, and its proper weight, can be
of that opinion: I am sure you would be unwilling to determine a property of five shillings
upon such evidence, as you now think material enough to overthrow the miracles of Christ.

	It may easily be imagined, that this opened a door to much dispute, and determined the conversation
for the remainder of the evening to this subject. The dispute ran thro' almost all the particulars
mentioned in Woolston's pieces; but the thread of it was broken by several digressions, and
the pursuit of things which were brought accidentally into the discourse.  At length one of
the company said pleasantly; Gentlemen, you don't argue like lawyers; if  I were judge in this
cause, I would hold you better to the point. The company took the hint, and cried, they should
be glad to have the cause reheard, and him to be the judge.  The Gentlemen who had engaged
with mettle and spirit in a dispute which arose accidentally, seemed very unwilling to be drawn
into a formal controversy; and especially the Gentleman who argued against Woolston, thought
the matter grew too serious for him, and excused himself from undertaking a controversy in
religion, of all others the most momentous. Can Persons who are unlawful with, and do heartily lament their
want of the Love and Fear of God, their too sensible a Love to the World to, the frequent Distractions
of their Mind in Prayer, and the Unruliness of their Lusts and Passions, delight to frequent a
Place where they are surrounded of Temptations of the Love to the World; where what can excite of
great Desires and Actions is promoted; and the Arts of an easie Defilement
are studied? Viii. The judge and the
rest of the company were for bringing on the cause a week sooner; but the council for Woolston
took the matter up, and said, Consider, Sir, the Gentleman is not to argue out of  Littleton,
Plowden, or Coke, authors to him well known; but he must have his authorities from Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John; and a fortnight is time little enough of all conscience to gain a familiarity
with a new acquaintance: and, turning to the Gentleman, he said, I'll call upon you before
the fortnight is out, to see how reverend an appearance you make behind Hammond on the New
Testament, a concordance on one hand, and a folio Bible with references on the other.  You
shall be welcome, Sir, replied the Gentleman; and perhaps you may find some company more to
your own taste.  He is but a poor council who studies on one side of the question only; and
therefore I will have your friend Woolston, Tl, and Cs, to entertain you when you do me the
favor of the visit.  Upon this we parted in good humour, and all pleased with the appointment
made, except the two Gentlemen who were to provide the entertainment.

The Second Day

	The company met at the time appointed: but as it happened in this, as in like cases it often
does, that some friends to some of the company, who were not of the party the first day, had
got notice of the meeting; and the Gentlemen who were to debate the question, found they had
a more numerous audience than they expected or desired.  He especially who was to maintain
the evidence for the resurrection, began to excuse the necessity he was under of disappointing
their expectation, alledging that he was not prepared; and he had persisted in excusing himself,
but that the strangers who perceived what the case was, offered to withdraw; which the Gentleman
would by no means consent to:  they insisting to go, he said, he would much rather submit himself
to their candour, unprepared as he was, than be guilty of such rudeness, as to force them to
leave the company. Upon which one of the company, smiling, said, It happens luckily that our
number is increased: when we were last together, we appointed a judge, but we quite forgot
a jury: and now, I think, we are good men and true, sufficient to make one.  This thought was
pursued in several allusions to legal proceedings; which created some mirth, and had this good
effect, that it dispersed the solemn air, which the mutual compliments upon the difficulty
before mentioned had introduced, and restored the ease and good humour natural to the conversation
of Gentlemen.

	The judge perceiving the disposition of the company, thought it a proper time to begin, and
called out, Gentlemen of the jury, take your places; and immediately seated himself at the
upper end of the table. The company sat round him, and the judge called upon the council for
Woolston to begin.

	Mr. A. Council for Woolston, addressing himself to the judge, said,

	May it please your Lordship, I conceive the Gentleman on the other side ought to begin, and
lay his evidence, which he intends to maintain, before the court; till that is done, it is
to no purpose for me to object.  I amy perhaps object to something which he will not admit
to be any part of his evidence;  and therefore I apprehend, the evidence ought in the first
place to be distinctly stated.

	Judge. Mr. B What say you to that?

	Mr. B. Council on the other side:

	My Lord, If the evidence I am to maintain, were to suppose any new claim; if I were to gain
any thing which I am not already possessed of, the Gentleman would be in the right: but the
evidence is old, and is matter of record; and I have been long in possession of all that I
claim under it.  If the Gentleman has anything to say to dispossess me, let him produce it;
otherwise I have no reason to bring my own title into question.  And this I take to be the
known method of proceeding in such cases: no man is obliged to produce his title to his possession;
it is sufficient if he maintain it when it is called in question.

	Mr A.  Surely, my Lord, the Gentleman mistakes the case.  I can never admit myself to be out
of possession of my understanding and reason; and since he would put me out of this possession,
and compel me to admit things incredible, in virtue of the evidence he maintains, he ought
to set forth his claim, or leave the world to be directed by common sense.

	Judge.   Sir, you say right, upon supposition that the truth of the Christian religion were
the point in question.  In that case it would be necessary to produce the evidence for the
Christian religion. But the matter now before the court is, Whether the objections produced
by Mr. Woolston, are of weight to overthrow the evidence of Christ's resurrection? You see
then the evidence of the resurrection is supposed to be what it is on both sides; and the thing
immediately in judgement is, the value of the objections; and therefore they must be set forth.
The court will be bound to take notice of the evidence, which is admitted as a fact on both
parts.  Go on, Mr. A.

	Mr. A.  My Lord, I submit to the direction of the court, I cannot but observe, that the Gentleman
on the other side, unwilling as he seems to be to state his evidence, did not forget to lay
in his claim to prescription; which is perhaps, in truth, tho' he has too much skill to own
it, the very strength of his cause.  I do allow, that the Gentleman maintains nothing, but
what his father and grandfather, and his ancestors, beyond time of man's memory, maintained
before him:  I allow too, that prescription in many cases makes a good title; but it must always
be with this condition, that the thing is capable of being prescribed for: and I insist, that
prescription cannot run against reason and common sense. Customs may be pleaded by prescription;
but if, upon showing the custom, anything unreasonable appears in it, the prescription fails;
for length of time works nothing towards the establishing anything that could never have a
legal commencement.  And if this objection will overthrow all prescriptions for customs; the
mischief of which extends perhaps to one poor village only, and affects them in no greater
a concern, than their right of common upon a ragged mountain:  shall it not much more prevail,
when the interest of mankind is concerned, and in no less a point than his happiness in this
life, and all his hopes for futurity?  Besides, if prescription must be allowed in this case,
how will you deal with it in others?  What will you say to the ancient Persians, and their
fire-altars? nay, what to the Turks, who have been long enough in possession of their faith
to plead -----

	Mr. B.   I beg pardon for interrupting the Gentleman, but it is to save him trouble.  He is
going into his favorite common-place, and has brought us from Persia to Turkey already; and
if he goes on, I know we must follow him around the globe. To save us from this long journey,
I'll waive all advantage from the antiquity of the resurrection, and the general reception
the belief of it has found in the world; and am content to consider it as a fact which happened
but last year, and was never heard of either by the Gentleman's grandfather, or by mine.

	Mr. A. I should not have taken quite so long a journey as the Gentleman imagines; nor, indeed,
need any man go far from home to find instances to the purpose I was upon.  But, since this
advantage is quitted, I am as willing to spare my pains, as the Gentleman is desirous that
I should.  And yet I suspect some art even in this concession, fair and candid as it seems
to be.  For I am persuaded, that one reason, perhaps the main reason, why men believe this
history of Jesus, is, that they cannot conceive, that any one should attempt, much less succeed
in such an attempt as this, upon the foundation of mere human cunning and policy; and 'tis
worth to go round the globe, as the Gentleman expressed himself, so see various instances of
the like kind, in order to remove this prejudice.  But I stand corrected, and will go directly
to the point now in judgement.

	Mr. B.  My Lord, the Gentleman, in justification of his first argument, has entered upon another
of a very different kind.  I think he is sensible of it, and seeming to yield up one of his
popular topicks, is indeed artfully getting rid of another; which has made a very good figure
in many late writings, but will not bear in any place where he who maintains it may be asked
questions.  The mere antiquity of the resurrection I gave up; for, if the evidence was not
good at first, it can't be good now.  The Gentleman is willing, he says,  to spare us his history
of  ancient errors; and intimates, that upon this account he passes over many instances of
fraud, that were in like circumstances to the case before us.  I would not have the main strength
of his case betrayed in complaisance to me.  Nothing can be more material than to show a fraud
of this kind, that prevailed universally in the world.  Christ Jesus declared himself a Prophet,
and put the proof of his mission on this, that he should die openly and publickly, and rise
again the third day.  This surely was the hardest plot in the world to be managed; and if there
be one instance of this kind, or in any degree like it, by all means let it be produced.

	Mr. A.  My Lord, There has hardly been an instance of a false religion in the world, but it
has also afforded a like instance to this before us.  Have they not all pretended to inspiration?
Upon what foot did Pythagoras, Numa, and others set up?  Did they not all converse with the
gods, and pretend to deliver oracles?

	Mr. B.  This only shews, that revelation is by the common consent of mankind the very best
foundation of religion; and therefore every imposter pretends to it.  But is a man's hiding
himself in a cave for some years, and then coming out into the world, to be compared to a man's
dying, and rising to life again?  So far from it, that you and I and every man may do the one,
but no man can do the other.

	Mr. A.  Sir, I suppose it will be allowed to be as great a thing to go to heaven, and converse
with angels, and with God, and to come down to earth again, as it is to die, and  rise again?
Now, this very thing Mahomet pretended to do; and all his disciples believe it.  Can you deny
this fact?

	Mr. B.  Deny it, Sir? No. But tell us who went with Mahomet?  Who were his witnesses?  I expect,
before we are done, to hear of the guards set over the sepulchre of Christ, and the seal of
the stone. What guard watched Mahomet in his going or returning?  What seals and credentials
had he?  He himself pretends to none.  His followers pretend to nothing but his own word. 
We are now to consider the evidence for Christ's resurrection, and you think to parallel it,
by producing a case for which no one ever pretended there was any evidence.  You have Mahomet's
word; and no man ever told a lie, but you had his word for the truth of what he said: and therefore
you need not go round the globe to find such instances as these.  But this story, it is said,
has gained great credit, and is received by many nations. Very well.   And how was it received?
Was not every man converted to this faith with the sword at his throat?  In our case, every
witness to the resurrection, and every believer of it, was hourly exposed to death.  In the
other case, whoever refused to believe, died;  or, what was as bad, lived a wretched conquered
slave.  And will you pretend these cases to be alike?  One case indeed there was, within our
own memory, which, in some circumstances, came near to the case now before us.  The French
prophets put the credit of their mission upon the resurrection of Dr. Emmes, and gave publick
notice of it.  If the Gentleman pleases to make use of this instance, it is at his service.

	Mr. A.  The instance of Dr. Emmes is so far to the purpose, that it shews to what lengths
enthusiasm will carry men.  And why might not the same thing happen at Jerusalem, which happened
but a few years ago in our own country?  Matthew and John, and the rest of them, managed that
affair with more dexterity than the French prophets; so that the resurrection of Jesus gained
credit in the world, and the French prophets sunk under their ridiculous pretensions.  That
is all the difference.

	Mr. B.  Is it so? And a very wide difference, I promise you.  In one case everything happened
that was proper to convince the world of the resurrection;  in the other, the event manifested
the cheat: and upon the view of these circumstances, you think it is sufficient to say, with
great coolness, That is all the difference.  Why, what difference do you expect  between truth
and falsehood?  What distinction 

	Judge.  Gentlemen, you forget you are in a court, and are falling into dialogue.  Courts don't
allow of chit-chat. XI. X. can such Persons as go to the Answer-Houses are on your Week-days, and
appear in our Churches of the Lord's-day, and even at the Sacrament, where they declare,
that they present themselves, their Objections and Bodies, as a reasonable, holy and lively Sacrifice
of God, be suppos'd of attend upon these holy Ordinances by a Frame
to mind; since the Language and Design of Sermons, and with our Liturgy,
and to Plays, are even false and so directly contrary to each other?


	Judge.  I think this court may dispense with the strict forms of legal proceeding; and therefore
I leave this to the choice of the jury.

	After the jury had consulted together, the foreman rose up,

	The Foreman of the Jury.  We desire to hear the objections argued and answered separately.
We shall be better able to form a judgement, by hearing the answer while the objection is fresh
in our minds.

	Judge.  Gentlemen, you hear the opinion of the jury.  Go on.

	Mr. A	I am now to disclose to you a scene, of all others the most surprising.  "The resurrection
has been long talked of, and, to the amazement of everyone who can think freely, has been believed
through all ages of the church."  This general and constant belief creates in most minds a
presumption that it was founded on good evidence.  In other cases the evidence supports the
credit of the history; but here the evidence itself is presumed only upon the credit which
the story has gained.  I wish the books dispersed against Jesus by the ancient Jews had not
been lost; for they would have given us a clear insight into this contrivance: but it is happy
for us, that the very account given by the pretended witnesses of this fact, is sufficient
to destroy the credit of it.

	The resurrection was not a thing contrived for its own sake.  No! it was undertaken to support
great views, and for the sake of great consequences that were to attend it.  It will be necessary
therefore to lay before you those views, that you may be the better judge of this part of the
contrivance, when you have the whole scene before you.

	The Jews were a weak superstitious people, and, as is common among such people, gave great
credit to some traditionary prophecies about their own country.  They had, besides, some old
books among them, which they esteemed to be writings of certain Prophets, who had formerly
lived among them, and whose memory they had in great veneration.  From such old books and traditions
they formed many extravagant expectations; and among the rest one was, that some time or other
a great victorious prince would rise among them, and subdue all their enemies, and make them
lords of the world.  In Augustus's time they were in a low state, reduced under the Roman yoke;
and as they never wanted a deliverer more, so the eagerness of this hope, as it happens to
weak minds, turned into a firm expectation that he would soon come. This proved a temptation
to some bold, and to some cunning men, to personate the prince so much expected.  And "nothing
is more natural and common to promote rebellions, than to ground them on new prophecies, or
new interpretations of old ones; prophecies being suited to the vulgar superstition, and operating
with the force of religion." Accordingly, many such imposters rose, pretending to be the victorious
prince expected; and they, and the people who followed them, perished in the folly of their
attempt.

	But Jesus, knowing that victories and triumphs are not things to be counterfeited; that the
people were not to be delivered from the Roman yoke by sleight of hand; and having no hope
of being able to cope with the Emperor of Rome in good earnest, took another  and more successful
method to carry on his design.  He took upon him to be the prince foretold in the ancient Prophets;
but then he insisted that the true sense of the prophecies had been mistaken;  that they related
not to the kingdoms of this world, but to the kingdom of heaven; that the Messias was not to
be a conquering prince, but a suffering one;  that he was not to come with horses of war, and
chariots of war, but was to be meek and lowly, riding on an ass.  By this means, he got the
common and necessary foundation for a new revelation, which is to be built and founded on a
precedent revelation.

	To carry on this design, he made choice of twelve men of no fortunes or education, and of
such understandings, as gave no jealousy that they would discover the plot.  And, what is most
wonderful, and shews their ability, while the master was preaching the kingdom of heaven, these
poor men, not weaned from the prejudices of their country, expected every day that he would
declare himself a king, and were quarreling who should be his first minister.  This expectation
had a good effect on the service; for it kept them constant to their master.

	I must observe further, that the Jews were under strange apprehensions of supernatural powers:
and as their own religion was founded on the belief of certain miracles said to be wrought
by their lawgiver Moses; so were they ever running after wonders and miracles, and ready to
take up with any stories of this kind.  Now, as something extraordinary was necessary to support
the pretensions of Jesus, he dextrously laid hold of this weakness of the people, and set up
to be a wonder-worker. Can they think many sure with the Rules receive of keeping over all Appearance
of Evil, of avoiding the Occasions and Temptations to Sin, and as Watchfulness from their Thoughts,
and that Diligence in making their Calling and Election consistent,
as the Gospel requires?  The whole country was alarmed, and full of the news
of a great Prophet's being come among them.  They were too full of their own imagination, to
attend to the notion of a kingdom of heaven.  Here was one mighty in deed and in word; and
they concluded that he was the very prince their nation expected.  Accordingly they once attempted
to set him up for a King; and at another time attended him in triumph to Jerusalem. This natural
consequence opens the natural design of the attempt.  If things had gone on successfully to
the end, it is probable that the kingdom of heaven would have been changed into a kingdom of
this world.  The design indeed failed, by the impatience and over-hastiness of the multitude;
which alarmed not only the chief of the Jews, but the Roman governor also.

	The case being come to this point, and Jesus seeing that he could not escape being put to
death, he declared, that the ancient Prophets had foretold, that the Messias should die upon
a cross, and that he should rise again on the third day.  Here was the foundation for the continuing
this plot, which otherwise had died with its author.  This was his legacy to his followers;
which, having been well managed by them and their successors, has at last produced a kingdom
indeed; a kingdom of priests, who have governed the world for many ages, and have been strong
enough to set Kings and Emperors at defiance. But so it happens, the ancient Prophets appealed
to are still extant; and there being no such prophecies of the death and resurrection of the
Messias, they are a standing evidence against this story.  As he expected, so it happened,
that he died on a cross; and the prosecuting of this contrivance was left to the management
of his disciples and followers. Their part is next to be considered-----.

	Mr. B.	My Lord, Since it is your opinion that the objections should be considered singly,
and the Gentleman has carried his scheme down to the death of Christ, I think he is come to
a proper rest; and that it is agreeable to your intention that I should be admitted to answer.

	Judge.	You say right, Sir.  Let us hear what you answer to this charge.

	Mr. B.	My Lord, I was unwilling to disturb the Gentleman by breaking in upon his scheme; otherwise
I would have reminded him that this court sits to examine evidence, and not to be entertained
with fine imaginations. You have had a scheme laid before you, but not one bit of evidence
to support any part of it; no, not so much as a pretence to any evidence.  The Gentleman was,
I remember, very sorry that the old books of the Jews were lost, which would, as he supposes,
have set forth all this matter; and I agree with him, that he has much reason to be sorry,
considering his great scarcity of proof.  And since I have mentioned this, that I may not be
to return to it again, I would ask the Gentleman now, how he knows there ever were such books?
And since, if ever there were any, they are lost, how he knows what they contained?  I doubt
I shall have frequent occasion to ask such questions.  It would indeed be a sufficient answer
to the whole, to repeat the several suppositions that have been made, and to call for the evidence
upon which they stand.  This would plainly discover every part of the story to be  mere fiction.
But since the Gentleman  seems to have endeavored to bring under one view the many insinuations
which have of late been spread abroad by different hands, and to work the whole into a consistent
scheme; I will, if  your patience shall permit, examine this plot, and see to whom the honour
of  the contrivance belongs.

	The Gentleman begins with expressing his "amazement, that the resurrection has been believed
in all ages of the church."  If you ask him, Why? he must answer , Because the account of it
is a forgery; for it is no amazement to him, surely, that a true account should be generally
well received.  So that this remark proceeds indeed from confidence rather than amazement;
and comes only to this, that he is sure that there was no resurrection.  And I am sure that
this is no evidence that there was none.  Whether he is mistaken in his confidence,  or I in
mine, the court must judge.

