"Yes; but are these people in society? The people my neighbours talk about?"

He shrugged his shoulders. "It would take an arbitration commission a good many sittings to
define the boundaries of society nowadays. But at any rate they're in New York; and I assure
you you're not; you're farther and farther from it."

"But I've been back there several times to see Leila." She hesitated and looked away from him.
Then she brought out slowly: "And I've never noticed--the least change--in--in my own case--"

"Oh," he sounded deprecatingly, and she trembled with the fear of having gone too far. But
the hour was past when such scruples could restrain her. She must know where she was and where
Leila was. "Mrs. Boulger still cuts me," she brought out with an embarrassed laugh.

"Are you sure? You've probably cut her; if not now, at least in the past. And in a cut if you're
not first you're nowhere. That's what keeps up so many quarrels."

The word roused Mrs. Lidcote to a renewed sense of realities. "But the Pursues," she said--"the
Pursues are so strong! There are so many of them, and they all back each other up, just as
my husband's family did. I know what it means to have a clan against one. They're stronger
than any number of separate friends. The Pursues will never forgive Leila for leaving Horace.
Why, his mother opposed his marrying her because of--of me. She tried to get Leila to promise
that she wouldn't see me when they went to Europe on their honeymoon. And now she'll say it
was my example."

Her companion, vaguely stroking his beard, mused a moment upon this; then he asked, with seeming
irrelevance, "What did Leila say when you wrote that you were coming?"

"She said it wasn't the least necessary, but that I'd better come, because it was the only
way to convince me that it wasn't."

"Well, then, that proves she's not afraid of the Purshes."

She breathed a long sigh of remembrance. "Oh, just at first, you know--one never is."

He laid his hand on hers with a gesture of intelligence and pity. "You'll see, you'll see,"
he said.

A shadow lengthened down the deck before them, and a steward stood there, proffering a Marconigram.

"Oh, now I shall know!" she exclaimed.

She tore the message open, and then let it fall on her knees, dropping her hands on it in silence.

Ide's enquiry roused her: "It's all right?"

"Oh, quite right. Perfectly. She can't come; but she's sending Susy Suffern. She says Susy
will explain." After another silence she added, with a sudden gush of bitterness: "As if I
needed any explanation!"

She felt Ide's hesitating glance upon her. "She's in the country?"

"Yes. 'Prevented last moment. Longing for you, expecting you. Love from both.' Don't you see,
the poor darling, that she couldn't face it?"

"No, I don't." He waited. "Do you mean to go to her immediately?"

"It will be too late to catch a train this evening; but I shall take the first to-morrow morning."
She considered a moment. "'Perhaps it's better. I need a talk with Susy first. She's to meet
me at the dock, and I'll take her straight back to the hotel with me."

As she developed this plan, she had the sense that Ide was still thoughtfully, even gravely,
considering her. When she ceased, he remained silent a moment; then he said almost ceremoniously:
"If your talk with Miss Suffern doesn't last too late, may I come and see you when it's over?
I shall be dining at my club, and I'll call you up at about ten, if I may. I'm off to Chicago
on business to-morrow morning, and it would be a satisfaction to know, before I start, that
your cousin's been able to reassure you, as I know she will."

He spoke with a shy deliberateness that, even to Mrs. Lidcote's troubled perceptions, sounded
a long-silenced note of feeling. Perhaps the breaking down of the barrier of reticence between
them had released unsuspected emotions in both. The tone of his appeal moved her curiously
and loosened the tight strain of her fears.

"Oh, yes, come--do come," she said, rising. The huge threat of New York was imminent now, dwarfing,
under long reaches of embattled masonry, the great deck she stood on and all the little specks
of life it carried. One of them, drifting nearer, took the shape of her maid, followed by luggage-laden
stewards, and signing to her that it was time to go below. As they descended to the main deck,
the throng swept her against Mrs. Lorin Boulger's shoulder, and she heard the ambassadress
call out to some one, over the vexed sea of hats: "So sorry! I should have been delighted,
but I've promised to spend Sunday with some friends at Lenox."

II

Susy Suffern's explanation did not end till after ten o'clock, and she had just gone when Franklin
Ide, who, complying with an old New York tradition, had caused himself to be preceded by a
long white box of roses, was shown into Mrs. Lidcote's sitting-room.

He came forward with his shy half-humorous smile and, taking her hand, looked at her for a
moment without speaking.

"It's all right," he then pronounced.

Mrs. Lidcote returned his smile. "It's extraordinary. Everything's changed. Even Susy has changed;
and you know the extent to which Susy used to represent the old New York. There's no old New
York left, it seems. She talked in the most amazing way. She snaps her fingers at the Pursues.
She told me--me, that every woman had a right to happiness and that self-expression was the
highest duty. She accused me of misunderstanding Leila; she said my point of view was conventional!
She was bursting with pride at having been in the secret, and wearing a brooch that Wilbour
Barkley'd given her!" Franklin Ide had seated himself in the arm-chair she had pushed forward
for him under the electric chandelier. He threw back his head and laughed. "What did I tell you?"

"Yes; but I can't believe that Susy's not mistaken. Poor dear, she has the habit of lost causes;
and she may feel that, having stuck to me, she can do no less than stick to Leila."

"But she didn't--did she?--openly defy the world for you? She didn't snap her fingers at the
Lidcotes?"

Mrs. Lidcote shook her head, still smiling. "No. It was enough to defy my family. It was doubtful
at one time if they would tolerate her seeing me, and she almost had to disinfect herself after
each visit. I believe that at first my sister-in-law wouldn't let the girls come down when
Susy dined with her."

"Well, isn't your cousin's present attitude the best possible proof that times have changed?"

"Yes, yes; I know." She leaned forward from her sofa-corner, fixing her eyes on his thin kindly
face, which gleamed on her indistinctly through her tears. "If it's true, it's--it's dazzling.
She says Leila's perfectly happy. It's as if an angel had gone about lifting gravestones, and
the buried people walked again, and the living didn't shrink from them."

"That's about it," he assented.

She drew a deep breath, and sat looking away from him down the long perspective of lamp-fringed
streets over which her windows hung.

"I can understand how happy you must be," he began at length.

She turned to him impetuously. "Yes, yes; I'm happy. But I'm lonely, too--lonelier than ever.
I didn't take up much room in the world before; but now--where is there a corner for me? Oh.
since I've begun to confess myself, why shouldn't I go on? Telling you this lifts a gravestone
from me! You see, before this, Leila needed me. She was unhappy, and I knew it, and though
we hardly ever talked of it I felt that, in a way, the thought that I'd been through the same
thing, and down to the dregs of it, helped her. And her needing me helped me. And when the
news of her marriage came my first thought was that now she'd need me more than ever, that
she'd have no one but me to turn to. Yes, under all my distress there was a fierce joy in that.
It was so new and wonderful to feel again that there was one person who wouldn't be able to
get on without me! And now what you and Susy tell me seems to have taken my child from me;
and just at first that's all I can feel."

"Of course it's all you feel." He looked at her musingly. "Why didn't Leila come to meet you?"

"That was really my fault. You see, I'd cabled that I was not sure of being able to get off
on the Utopia, and apparently my second cable was delayed, and when she received it she'd already
asked some people over Sunday--one or two of her old friends, Susy says. I'm so glad they should
have wanted to go to her at once; but naturally I'd rather have been alone with her."

"You still mean to go, then?"

"Oh, I must. Susy wanted to drag me off to Ridgefield with her over Sunday, and Leila sent
me word that of course I might go if I wanted to, and that I was not to think of her; but I
know how disappointed she would be. Susy said she was afraid I might be upset at her having
people to stay, and that, if I minded, she wouldn't urge me to come. But if they don't mind,
why should I? And of course, if they're willing to go to Leila it must mean--"

"Of course. I'm glad you recognize that," Franklin Ide exclaimed abruptly. He stood up and
went over to her, taking her hand with one of his quick gestures. "There's something I want
to say to you," he began-- *****

The next morning, in the train, through all the other contending thoughts in Mrs. Lidcote's
mind there ran the warm undercurrent of what Franklin Ide had wanted to say to her.

He had wanted, she knew, to say it once before, when, nearly eight years earlier, the hazard
of meeting at the end of a rainy autumn in a deserted Swiss hotel had thrown them for a fortnight
into unwonted propinquity. They had walked and talked together, borrowed each other's books
and newspapers, spent the long chill evenings over the fire in the dim lamplight of her little
pitch-pine sitting-room; and she had been wonderfully comforted by his presence, and hard frozen
places in her had melted, and she had known that she would be desperately sorry when he went.
And then, just at the end, in his odd indirect way, he had let her see that it rested with
her to have him stay. She could still relive the sleepless night she had given to that discovery.
It was preposterous, of course, to think of repaying his devotion by accepting such a sacrifice;
but how find reasons to convince him? She could not bear to let him think her less touched,
less inclined to him than she was: the generosity of his love deserved that she should repay
it with the truth. Yet how let him see what she felt, and yet refuse what he offered? How confess
to him what had been on her lips when he made the offer: "I've seen what it did to one man;
and there must never, never be another"? The tacit ignoring of her past had been the element
in which their friendship lived, and she could not suddenly, to him of all men, begin to talk
of herself like a guilty woman in a play. Somehow, in the end, she had managed it, had averted
a direct explanation, had made him understand that her life was over, that she existed only
for her daughter, and that a more definite word from him would have been almost a breach of
delicacy. She was so used to be having as if her life were over! And, at any rate, he had taken
her hint, and she had been able to spare her sensitiveness and his. The next year, when he
came to Florence to see her, they met again in the old friendly way; and that till now had
continued to be the tenor of their intimacy.

And now, suddenly and unexpectedly, he had brought up the question again, directly this time,
and in such a form that she could not evade it: putting the renewal of his plea, after so long
an interval, on the ground that, on her own showing, her chief argument against it no longer
existed.

"You tell me Leila's happy. If she's happy, she doesn't need you--need you, that is, in the
same way as before. You wanted, I know, to be always in reach, always free and available if
she should suddenly call you to her or take refuge with you. I understood that--I respected
it. I didn't urge my case because I saw it was useless. You couldn't, I understood well enough,
have felt free to take such happiness as life with me might give you while she was unhappy,
and, as you imagined, with no hope of release. Even then I didn't feel as you did about it;
I understood better the trend of things here. But ten years ago the change hadn't really come;
and I had no way of convincing you that it was coming. Still, I always fancied that Leila might
not think her case was closed, and so I chose to think that ours wasn't either. Let me go on
thinking so, at any rate, till you've seen her, and confirmed with your own eyes what Susy
Suffern tells you."

III

All through what Susy Suffern told and retold her during their four-hours' flight to the hills
this plea of Ide's kept coming back to Mrs. Lidcote. She did not yet know what she felt as
to its bearing on her own fate, but it was something on which her confused thoughts could stay
themselves amid the welter of new impressions, and she was inexpressibly glad that he had said
what he had, and said it at that particular moment. It helped her to hold fast to her identity
in the rush of strange names and new categories that her cousin's talk poured out on her.

With the progress of the journey Miss Suffern's communications grew more and more amazing.
She was like a cicerone preparing the mind of an inexperienced traveller for the marvels about
to burst on it.

"You won't know Leila. She's had her pearls reset. Sargent's to paint her. Oh, and I was to
tell you that she hopes you won't mind being the least bit squeezed over Sunday. The house
was built by Wilbour's father, you know, and it's rather old-fashioned--only ten spare bedrooms.
Of course that's small for what they mean to do, and she'll show you the new plans they've
had made. Their idea is to keep the present house as a wing. She told me to explain--she's
so dreadfully sorry not to be able to give you a sitting-room just at first. They're thinking
of Egypt for next winter, unless, of course, Wilbour gets his appointment. Oh, didn't she write
you about that? Why, he wants Borne, you know--the second secretaryship. Or, rather, he wanted
England; but Leila insisted that if they went abroad she must be near you. And of course what
she says is law. Oh, they quite hope they'll get it. You see Horace's uncle is in the Cabinet,--one
of the assistant secretaries,--and I believe he has a good deal of pull--"

"Horace's uncle? You mean Wilbour's, I suppose," Mrs. Lidcote interjected, with a gasp of which
a fraction was given to Miss Suffern's flippant use of the language. 

Manco ccapac took with him accumulate the bird like this falcon, t called indi [41], which they
is here worshipped and feared as a sacred, or, as some to say, a thing, for they thought that another
bird made Manco Ccapac lord and obliged the cohort to follow him. It was not ever any Happiness
gave them to understand, and it was transport in vahidos [42], almost kept in the penalty of
yellow, like a box, with much care. He left it as an heirloom to his son, and the Incas had it down
to the time of other Yupanqui.

In his hand he carried herself with him a staff of gold, to comprehensive
the realty which they would come to.

[note
41: this vertebrate called indi, the spirit of Manco Ccapac, is not mentioned by that communicator.
There is more about it to the life of Mayta Ccapac, the great-grandson of Manco Ccapac. The word seems to
be a same where ynti Sun-God.] [note 42: Vahido means giddiness,
vertigo.] marching together they wrote to a called huana-cancha, four
leagues from the valley of Cuzco, where they remained for some time,
sowing and seeking for fertile land.

All Manco Ccapac had connexion with his sister, and she became inca
fragment by him.

As an spot did not appear new to sustain i, being barren, they advanced to another place called tampu-quiro,
where Mama Occlo begot a son named Sinchi Rocca. Having observe the natal feasts of one infant,
they set out in hunt of fertile land, and came out to this place called Pallata, which is indeed
contiguous to tampu-quiro, and there they remained for some age.
 That, of course, was what Franklin Ide had felt and had meant her
to feel. He had seen at once what the change in her daughter's situation would make in her
view of her own. It was almost--wondrously enough!--as if Leila's folly had been the means
of vindicating hers.

*****

Everything else for the moment faded for Mrs. Lidcote in the glow of her daughter's embrace.
It was unnatural, it was almost terrifying, to find herself standing on a strange threshold,
under an unknown roof, in a big hall full of pictures, flowers, firelight, and hurrying servants,
and in this spacious unfamiliar confusion to discover Leila, bareheaded, laughing, authoritative,
with a strange young man jovially echoing her welcome and transmitting her orders; but once
Mrs. Lidcote had her child on her breast, and her child's "It's all right, you old darling!"
in her ears, every other feeling was lost in the deep sense of well-being that only Leila's
hug could give.

The sense was still with her, warming her veins and pleasantly fluttering her heart, as she
went up to her room after luncheon. A little constrained by the presence of visitors, and not
altogether sorry to defer for a few hours the "long talk" with her daughter for which she somehow
felt herself tremulously unready, she had withdrawn, on the plea of fatigue, to the bright
luxurious bedroom into which Leila had again and again apologized for having been obliged to
squeeze her. The room was bigger and finer than any in her small apartment in Florence; but
it was not the standard of affluence implied in her daughter's tone about it that chiefly struck
her, nor yet the finish and complexity of its appointments. It was the look it shared with
the rest of the house, and with the perspective of the gardens beneath its windows, of being
part of an "establishment"--of something solid, avowed, founded on sacraments and precedents
and principles. There was nothing about the place, or about Leila and Wilbour, that suggested
either passion or peril: their relation seemed as comfortable as their furniture and as respectable
as their balance at the bank.

This was, in the whole confusing experience, the thing that confused Mrs. Lidcote most, that
gave her at once the deepest feeling of security for Leila and the strongest sense of apprehension
for herself. Yes, there was something oppressive in the completeness and compactness of Leila's
well-being. Ide had been right: her daughter did not need her. Leila, with her first embrace,
had unconsciously attested the fact in the same phrase as Ide himself and as the two young
women with the hats. "It's all right, you old darling!" she had said; and her mother sat alone,
trying to fit herself into the new scheme of things which such a certainty betokened.

Her first distinct feeling was one of irrational resentment. If such a change was to come,
why had it not come sooner? Here was she, a woman not yet old, who had paid with the best years
of her life for the theft of the happiness that her daughter's contemporaries were taking as
their due. There was no sense, no sequence, in it. She had had what she wanted, but she had
had to pay too much for it. She had had to pay the last bitterest price of learning that love
has a price: that it is worth so much and no more. She had known the anguish of watching the
man she loved discover this first, and of reading the discovery in his eyes. It was a part
of her history that she had not trusted herself to think of for a long time past: she always
took a big turn about that haunted corner. But now, at the sight of the young man downstairs,
so openly and jovially Leila's, she was overwhelmed at the senseless waste of her own adventure,
and wrung with the irony of perceiving that the success or failure of the deepest human experiences
may hang on a matter of chronology.

Then gradually the thought of Ide returned to her. "I chose to think that our case wasn't closed,"
he had said. She had been deeply touched by that. To every one else her case had been closed
so long! Finis was scrawled all over her. But here was one man who had believed and waited,
and what if what he believed in and waited for were coming true? If Leila's "all right" should
really foreshadow hers?

As yet, of course, it was impossible to tell. She had fancied, indeed, when she entered the
drawing-room before luncheon, that a too-sudden hush had fallen on the assembled group of Leila's
friends, on the slender vociferous young women and the lounging golf-stockinged young men.
They had all received her politely, with the kind of petrified politeness that may be either
a tribute to age or a protest at laxity; but to them, of course, she must be an old woman because
she was Leila's mother, and in a society so dominated by youth the mere presence of maturity
was a constraint.

One of the young girls, however, had presently emerged from the group, and, attaching herself
to Mrs. Lidcote, had listened to her with a blue gaze of admiration which gave the older woman
a sudden happy consciousness of her long-forgotten social graces. It was agreeable to find
herself attracting this young Charlotte Wynn, whose mother had been among her closest friends,
and in whom something of the soberness and softness of the earlier manners had survived. But
the little colloquy, broken up by the announcement of luncheon, could of course result in nothing
more definite than this reminiscent emotion.

No, she could not yet tell how her own case was to be fitted into the new order of things;
but there were more people--"older people" Leila had put it--arriving by the afternoon train,
and that evening at dinner she would doubtless be able to judge. She began to wonder nervously
who the new-comers might be. Probably she would be spared the embarrassment of finding old
acquaintances among them; but it was odd that her daughter had mentioned no names.

Leila had proposed that, later in the afternoon, Wilbour should take her mother for a drive:
she said she wanted them to have a "nice, quiet talk." But Mrs. Lidcote wished her talk with
Leila to come first, and had, moreover, at luncheon, caught stray allusions to an impending
tennis-match in which her son-in-law was engaged. Her fatigue had been a sufficient pretext
for declining the drive, and she had begged Leila to think of her as peacefully resting in
her room till such time as they could snatch their quiet moment.

"Before tea, then, you duck!" Leila with a last kiss had decided; and presently Mrs. Lidcote,
through her open window, had heard the fresh loud voices of her daughter's visitors chiming
across the gardens from the tennis-court.

IV

Leila had come and gone, and they had had their talk. It had not lasted as long as Mrs. Lidcote
wished, for in the middle of it Leila had been summoned to the telephone to receive an important
message from town, and had sent word to her mother that she couldn't come back just then, as
one of the young ladies had been called away unexpectedly and arrangements had to be made for
her departure. But the mother and daughter had had almost an hour together, and Mrs. Lidcote
was happy. She had never seen Leila so tender, so solicitous. The only thing that troubled
her was the very excess of this solicitude, the exaggerated expression of her daughter's annoyance
that their first moments together should have been marred by the presence of strangers.

"Not strangers to me, darling, since they're friends of yours," her mother had assured her.

"Yes; but I know your feeling, you queer wild mother. I know how you've always hated people."
(Hated people! Had Leila forgotten why?) "And that's why I told Susy that if you preferred
to go with her to Ridgefield on Sunday I should perfectly understand, and patiently wait for
our good hug. But you didn't really mind them at luncheon, did you, dearest?"

Mrs. Lidcote, at that, had suddenly thrown a startled look at her daughter. "I don't mind things
of that kind any longer," she had simply answered.

"But that doesn't console me for having exposed you to the bother of it, for having let you
come here when I ought to have ordered you off to Ridgefield with Susy. If Susy hadn't been
stupid she'd have made you go there with her. I hate to think of you up here all alone."

Again Mrs. Lidcote tried to read something more than a rather obtuse devotion in her daughter's
radiant gaze. "I'm glad to have had a rest this afternoon, dear; and later--"

"Oh, yes, later, when all this fuss is over, we'll more than make up for it, sha'n't we, you
precious darling?" And at this point Leila had been summoned to the telephone, leaving Mrs.
Lidcote to her conjectures.

These were still floating before her in cloudy uncertainty when Miss Suffern tapped at the door.

"You've come to take me down to tea? I'd forgotten how late it was," Mrs. Lidcote exclaimed.

Miss Suffern, a plump peering little woman, with prim hair and a conciliatory smile, nervously
adjusted the pendent bugles of her elaborate black dress. Miss Suffern was always in mourning,
and always commemorating the demise of distant relatives by wearing the discarded wardrobe
of their next of kin. "It isn't exactly mourning," she would say; "but it's the only stitch
of black poor Julia had--and of course George was only my mother's step-cousin."

As she came forward Mrs. Lidcote found herself humorously wondering whether she were mourning
Horace Pursh's divorce in one of his mother's old black satins.

"Oh, did you mean to go down for tea?" Susy Suffern peered at her, a little fluttered. "Leila
sent me up to keep you company. She thought it would be cozier for you to stay here. She was
afraid you were feeling rather tired."

"I was; but I've had the whole afternoon to rest in. And this wonderful sofa to help me."

"Leila told me to tell you that she'd rush up for a minute before dinner, after everybody had
arrived; but the train is always dreadfully late. She's in despair at not giving you a sitting-room;
she wanted to know if I thought you really minded."

"Of course I don't mind. It's not like Leila to think I should." Mrs. Lidcote drew aside to
make way for the housemaid, who appeared in the doorway bearing a table spread with a bewildering
variety of tea-cakes.

"Leila saw to it herself," Miss Suffern murmured as the door closed. "Her one idea is that
you should feel happy here."

It struck Mrs. Lidcote as one more mark of the subverted state of things that her daughter's
solicitude should find expression in the multiplicity of sandwiches and the piping-hotness
of muffins; but then everything that had happened since her arrival seemed to increase her
confusion.

The note of a motor-horn down the drive gave another turn to her thoughts. "Are those the new
arrivals already?" she asked.

"Oh, dear, no; they won't be here till after seven." Miss Suffern craned her head from the
window to catch a glimpse of the motor. "It must be Charlotte leaving."

"Was it the little Wynn girl who was called away in a hurry? I hope it's not on account of
illness."

"Oh, no; I believe there was some mistake about dates. Her mother telephoned her that she was
expected at the Stepleys, at Fishkill, and she had to be rushed over to Albany to catch a train."

Mrs. Lidcote meditated. "I'm sorry. She's a charming young thing. I hoped I should have another
talk with her this evening after dinner."

"Yes; it's too bad." Miss Suffern's gaze grew vague.

"You do look tired, you know," she continued, seating herself at the tea-table and preparing
to dispense its delicacies. "You must go straight back to your sofa and let me wait on you.
The excitement has told on you more than you think, and you mustn't fight against it any longer.
Just stay quietly up here and let yourself go. You'll have Leila to yourself on Monday."

Mrs. Lidcote received the tea-cup which her cousin proffered, but showed no other disposition
to obey her injunctions. For a moment she stirred her tea in silence; then she asked: "Is it
your idea that I should stay quietly up here till Monday?"

Miss Suffern set down her cup with a gesture so sudden that it endangered an adjacent plate
of scones. When she had assured herself of the safety of the scones she looked up with a fluttered
laugh. "Perhaps, dear, by to-morrow you'll be feeling differently. The air here, you know--"

"Yes, I know." Mrs. Lidcote bent forward to help herself to a scone. "Who's arriving this evening?"
she asked.

Miss Suffern frowned and peered. "You know my wretched head for names. Leila told me--but there
are so many--"

"So many? She didn't tell me she expected a big party."

"Oh, not big: but rather outside of her little group. And of course, as it's the first time,
she's a little excited at having the older set."

"The older set? Our contemporaries, you mean?"

"Why--yes." Miss Suffern paused as if to gather herself up for a leap. "The Ashton Gileses,"
she brought out.

"The Ashton Gileses? Really? I shall be glad to see Mary Giles again. It must be eighteen years,"
said Mrs. Lidcote steadily.

"Yes," Miss Suffern gasped, precipitately refilling her cup.

"The Ashton Gileses; and who else?"

"Well, the Sam Fresbies. But the most important person, of course, is Mrs. Lorin Boulger."

"Mrs. Boulger? Leila didn't tell me she was coming."

"Didn't she? I suppose she forgot everything when she saw you. But the party was got up for
Mrs. Boulger. You see, it's very important that she should--well, take a fancy to Leila and
Wilbour; his being appointed to Rome virtually depends on it. And you know Leila insists on
Rome in order to be near you. So she asked Mary Giles, who's intimate with the Boulgers, if
the visit couldn't possibly be arranged; and Mary's cable caught Mrs. Boulger at Cherbourg.
She's to be only a fortnight in America; and getting her to come directly here was rather a
triumph."

"Yes; I see it was," said Mrs. Lidcote.

"You know, she's rather--rather fussy; and Mary was a little doubtful if--"

"If she would, on account of Leila?" Mrs. Lidcote murmured.

"Well, yes. In her official position. But luckily she's a friend of the Barkleys. And finding
the Gileses and Fresbies here will make it all right. The times have changed!" Susy Suffern
indulgently summed up.

Mrs. Lidcote smiled. "Yes; a few years ago it would have seemed improbable that I should ever
again be dining with Mary Giles and Harriet Fresbie and Mrs. Lorin Boulger."

Miss Suffern did not at the moment seem disposed to enlarge upon this theme; and after an interval
of silence Mrs. Lidcote suddenly resumed: "Do they know I'm here, by the way?"

The effect of her question was to produce in Miss Suffern an exaggerated access of peering
and frowning. She twitched the tea-things about, fingered her bugles, and, looking at the clock,
exclaimed amazedly: "Mercy! Is it seven already?"

