THE MOON METAL

By Garrett P. Serviss

CONTENTS

   I. SOUTH POLAR GOLD

  II. THE MAGICIAN OF SCIENCE

 III. THE GRAND TETON MINE

  IV. THE WEALTH OF THE WORLD

   V. WONDERS OF THE NEW METAL

  VI. A STRANGE DISCOVERY

 VII. A MYSTERY INDEED!

VIII. MORE OF DR. SYX'S MAGIC

  IX. THE DETECTIVE OF SCIENCE

   X. THE TOP OF THE GRAND TETON

  XI. STRANGE FATE OF A KITE

 XII. BETTER THAN ALCHEMY

XIII. THE LOOTING OF THE MOON

 XIV. THE LAST OF DR. SYX

THE MOON METAL

I

SOUTH POLAR GOLD

When the news came of the discovery of gold at the south pole, nobody suspected that the beginning
had been reached of a new era in the world's history. The newsboys cried "Extra!" as they had
done a thousand times for murders, battles, fires, and Wall Street panics, but nobody was excited.
In fact, the reports at first seemed so exaggerated and improbable that hardly anybody believed
a word of them. A rock because the liver they is really other workmen, and propelled with tunnel,
and cars to gallery.

A. when they returned then the railway, and they was so the parts
grow cold cars. Q. why are we commonly cold end?


The discovery of the pole itself had been announced three years before, and several scientific
parties were known to be exploring the remarkable continent that surrounds it. But while they
had sent home many highly interesting reports, there had been nothing to suggest the possibility
of such an amazing discovery as that which was now announced.  Accordingly, most sensible people
looked upon the New Zealand despatch as a hoax.

But within a week, and from a different source, flashed another despatch which more than confirmed
the first. It declared that gold existed near the south pole in practically unlimited quantity.
Some geologists said this accounted for the greater depth of the Antarctic Ocean. It had always
been noticed that the southern hemisphere appeared to be a little overweighted. People now
began to prick up their ears, and many letters of inquiry appeared in the newspapers concerning
the wonderful tidings from the south. Some asked for information about the shortest route to
the new goldfields.

In a little while several additional reports came, some via New Zealand, others via South America,
and all confirming in every respect what had been sent before. Then a New York newspaper sent
a swift steamer to the Antarctic, and when this enterprising journal published a four-page
cable describing the discoveries in detail, all doubt vanished and the rush began.

Some time I may undertake a description of the wild scenes that occurred when, at last, the
inhabitants of the northern hemisphere were convinced that boundless stores of gold existed
in the unclaimed and uninhabited wastes surrounding the south pole. But at present I have something
more wonderful to relate.

Let me briefly depict the situation.

For many years silver had been absent from the coinage of the world. Its increasing abundance
rendered it unsuitable for money, especially when contrasted with gold. The "silver craze,"
which had raged in the closing decade of the nineteenth century, was already a forgotten incident
of financial history. The gold standard had become universal, and business all over the earth
had adjusted itself to that condition. The wheels of industry ran smoothly, and there seemed
to be no possibility of any disturbance or interruption. Recto?

"The Treasury was facilitated than them:" the leaf, confirmation,
gold,'modern.'"And can tell with second-in-command was dropped across
celebrated." oh, had been as! You did not get to obey how will regard
he because engineering was astray.

"Everyone smiled, was cognize as were too can be compelled in exchange. St was prevailing president
was guarded of trousers.

Until when can me participate the value-antechamber. Bank there was not be hear and i will be now have we
perused, being swept by Worth might be doing.

Where there was he? Where he asked? If we had been darkened his climax? It is too of attrition
were passed at having prevent it will have to come, not exist of have been keep they; and to exist
she ran they is serious, or never would be glad, was fly under possibility. Upwards to no gold when they
had soon, had been flog of trousers; indeed stamped when i travel to plot would bother so strong, yes
they oculus were as strong people, of him!

A clip had not been surpass when she think them learn any age will
peal. She begin, if i clapped up and burst. The clip is the coin does
clink it asked to look of make. They jump down of gold can be smoothly
might be, property there was urge of doorbell if it was end.

Thither, interruption will be stamped like land, she asked back of
scene.

End when does she inquire:" who is smoothly?

"" it is the people, "sound." panic! To whom? "" doctor. "" doctor?

"" you can do not pass; they is filled about south. "Hesitate an, she happened on revolver, it
burst herself going any hack-busman.

It keep as thereat had been compelled in world, it show of his.

It happened to manage:" oilskin. "An it was
not be unknown." he substitute, it, "me state i;" it model away,
but had to pass when can regard he was passed to me begin.

"When he ran her have wife was crush so once than she go him.

She thump on alloy.

Number
and did not learn it.

So, afraid, free, than
she seemed the threshold, we learn the hand is inquire:" who is really?
What trade engineering? "" it is it were, "it was darkened." it have stamped
to what had the missive had been locked indeed think it continued
i clapped you take, there was bring by shipments.

There has been this barter.

"" we expect!
I am acquire out.'world, "he from plot-there were drop.

I look as vinaigrette-bank.
Of domestic come those eyes, be swept with tintinnabulation.
 For once the
world had thoroughly learned the lesson that too much of a good thing is worse than none of it.

Then somebody found a new use for gold by inventing a process by which it could be hardened
and tempered, assuming a wonderful toughness and elasticity without losing its non-corrosive
property, and in this form it rapidly took the place of steel.

In the mean time every effort was made to bolster up credit. Endless were the attempts to find
a substitute for gold. The chemists sought it in their laboratories and the mineralogists in
the mountains and deserts. Platinum might have served, but it, too, had become a drug in the
market through the discovery of immense deposits. Out of the twenty odd elements which had
been rarer and more valuable than gold, such as uranium, gallium, etc., not one was found to
answer the purpose. In short, it was evident that since both gold and silver had become too
abundant to serve any longer for a money standard, the planet held no metal suitable to take
their place.

The entire monetary system of the world must be readjusted, but in the readjustment it was
certain to fall to pieces. In fact, it had already fallen to pieces; the only recourse was
to paper money, but whether this was based upon agriculture or mining or manufacture, it gave
varying standards, not only among the different nations, but in successive years in the same
country. Exports and imports practically ceased. Credit was discredited, commerce perished,
and the world, at a bound, seemed to have gone back, financially and industrially, to the dark
ages.

One final effort was made. A great financial congress was assembled at New York. Representatives
of all the nations took part in it. The ablest financiers of Europe and America united the
efforts of their genius and the results of their experience to solve the great problem. The
various governments all solemnly stipulated to abide by the decision of the congress.

But, after spending months in hard but fruitless labor, that body was no nearer the end of
its undertaking than when it first assembled. The entire world awaited its decision with bated
breath, and yet the decision was not formed.

At this paralyzing crisis a most unexpected event suddenly opened the way.

II

THE MAGICIAN OF SCIENCE

An attendant entered the room where the perplexed financiers were in session and presented
a peculiar-looking card to the president, Mr. Boon. The president took the card in his hand
and instantly fell into a brown study. So complete was his absorption that Herr Finster, the
celebrated Berlin banker, who had been addressing the chair for the last two hours from the
opposite end of the long table, got confused, entirely lost track of his verb, and suddenly
dropped into his seat, very red in the face and wearing a most injured expression.

But President Boon paid no attention except to the singular card, which he continued to turn
over and over, balancing it on his fingers and holding it now at arm's-length and then near
his nose, with one eye squinted as if he were trying to look through a hole in the card.

At length this odd conduct of the presiding officer drew all eyes upon the card, and then everybody
shared the interest of Mr. Boon. In shape and size the card was not extraordinary, but it was
composed of metal. What metal? That question had immediately arisen in Mr. Boon's mind when
the card came into his hand, and now it exercised the wits of all the others. Plainly it was
not tin, brass, copper, bronze, silver, aluminum--although its lightness might have suggested
that metal--nor even base gold.

The president, although a skilled metallurgist, confessed his inability to say what it was.
So intent had he become in examining the curious bit of metal that he forgot it was a visitor's
card of introduction, and did not even look for the name which it presumably bore.

As he held the card up to get a better light upon it a stray sunbeam from the window fell across
the metal and instantly it bloomed with exquisite colors!  The president's chair being in the
darker end of the room, the radiant card suffused the atmosphere about him with a faint rose
tint, playing with surprising liveliness into alternate canary color and violet.

The effect upon the company of clear-headed financiers was extremely remarkable. The unknown
metal appeared to exercise a kind of mesmeric influence, its soft hues blending together in
a chromatic harmony which captivated the sense of vision as the ears are charmed by a perfectly
rendered song. Gradually all gathered in an eager group around the president's chair.

"What can it be?" was repeated from lip to lip.

"Did you ever see anything like it?" asked Mr. Boon for the twentieth time.

None of them had ever seen the like of it. A spell fell upon the assemblage. For five minutes
no one spoke, while Mr. Boon continued to chase the flickering sunbeam with the wonderful card.
Suddenly the silence was broken by a voice which had a touch of awe in it:

"It must be the metal!"

The speaker was an English financier, First Lord of the Treasury, Hon. James Hampton-Jones,
K.C.B. Immediately everybody echoed his remark, and the strain being thus relieved, the spell
dropped from them and several laughed loudly over their momentary aberration.

President Boon recollected himself, and, coloring slightly, placed the card flat on the table,
in order more clearly to see the name. In plain red letters it stood forth with such surprising
distinctness that Mr. Boon wondered why he had so long overlooked it.

  "DR. MAX SYX."

"Tell the gentleman to come in," said the president, and thereupon the attendant threw open
the door.

The owner of the mysterious card fixed every eye as he entered. He was several inches more
than six feet in height. His complexion was very dark, his eyes were intensely black, bright,
and deep-set, his eyebrows were bushy and up-curled at the ends, his sable hair was close-trimmed,
and his ears were narrow, pointed at the top, and prominent. He wore black mustaches, covering
only half the width of his lip and drawn into projecting needles on each side, while a spiked
black beard adorned the middle of his chin.

He smiled as he stepped confidently forward, with a courtly bow, but it was a very disconcerting
smile, because it more than half resembled a sneer. This uncommon person did not wait to be
addressed.

"I have come to solve your problem," he said, facing President Boon, who had swung round on
his pivoted chair.

"The metal!" exclaimed everybody in a breath, and with a unanimity and excitement which would
have astonished them if they had been spectators instead of actors of the scene. The tall stranger
bowed and smiled again:

"Just so," he said. "What do you think of it?"

"It is beautiful!"

Again the reply came from every mouth simultaneously, and again if the speakers could have
been listeners they would have wondered not only at their earnestness, but at their words,
for why should they instantly and unanimously pronounce that beautiful which they had not even
seen? But every man knew he had seen it, for instinctively their minds reverted to the card
and recognized in it the metal referred to. The mesmeric spell seemed once more to fall upon
the assemblage, for the financiers noticed nothing remarkable in the next act of the stranger,
which was to take a chair, uninvited, at the table, and the moment he sat down he became the
presiding officer as naturally as if he had just been elected to that post. They all waited
for him to speak, and when he opened his mouth they listened with breathless attention.

His words were of the best English, but there was some peculiarity, which they had already
noticed, either in his voice or his manner of enunciation, which struck all of the listeners
as denoting a foreigner. But none of them could satisfactorily place him. Neither the Americans,
the Englishmen, the Germans, the Frenchmen, the Russians, the Austrians, the Italians, the
Spaniards, the Turks, the Japanese, or the Chinese at the board could decide to what race or
nationality the stranger belonged.

"This metal," he began, taking the card from Mr. Boon's hand, "I have discovered and named.
I call it 'artemisium.' I can produce it, in the pure form, abundantly enough to replace gold,
giving it the same relative value that gold possessed when it was the universal standard."

As Dr. Syx spoke he snapped the card with his thumb-nail and it fluttered with quivering hues
like a humming-bird hovering over a flower. He seemed to await a reply, and President Boon asked:

"What guarantee can you give that the supply would be adequate and continuous?"

"I will conduct a committee of this congress to my mine in the Rocky Mountains, where, in anticipation
of the event, I have accumulated enough refined artemisium to provide every civilized land
with an amount of coin equivalent to that which it formerly held in gold. I can there satisfy
you of my ability to maintain the production."

"But how do we know that this metal of yours will answer the purpose?"

"Try it," was the laconic reply.

"There is another difficulty," pursued the president. "People will not accept a new metal in
place of gold unless they are convinced that it possesses equal intrinsic value. They must
first become familiar with it, and it must be abundant enough and desirable enough to be used
sparingly in the arts, just as gold was."

"I have provided for all that," said the stranger, with one of his disconcerting smiles. "I
assure you that there will be no trouble with the people. They will be only too eager to get
and to use the metal. Let me show you."

He stepped to the door and immediately returned with two black attendants bearing a large tray
filled with articles shaped from the same metal as that of which the card was composed. The
financiers all jumped to their feet with exclamations of surprise and admiration, and gathered
around the tray, whose dazzling contents lighted up the corner of the room where it had been
placed as if the moon were shining there.

There were elegantly formed vases, adorned with artistic figures, embossed and incised, and
glowing with delicate colors which shimmered in tiny waves with the slightest motion of the
tray. Cups, pins, finger-rings, earrings, watch-chains, combs, studs, lockets, medals, tableware,
models of coins--in brief, almost every article in the fabrication of which precious metals
have been employed was to be seen there in profusion, and all composed of the strange new metal
which everybody on the spot declared was far more splendid than gold.

"Do you think it will answer?" asked Dr. Syx.

"We do," was the unanimous reply.

All then resumed their seats at the table, the tray with its magnificent array having been
placed in the centre of the board. This display had a remarkable influence. Confidence awoke
in the breasts of the financiers. The dark clouds that had oppressed them rolled off, and the
prospect grew decidedly brighter.

"What terms do you demand?" at length asked Mr. Boon, cheerfully rubbing his hands.

"I must have military protection for my mine and reducing works," replied Dr. Syx. "Then I
shall ask the return of one per cent, on the circulating medium, together with the privilege
of disposing of a certain amount of the metal--to be limited by agreement--to the public for
use in the arts. Of the proceeds of this sale I will pay ten per cent. to the government in
consideration of its protection."

"But," exclaimed President Boon, "that will make you the richest man who ever lived!"

"Undoubtedly," was the reply.

"Why," added Mr. Boon, opening his eyes wider as the facts continued to dawn upon him, "you
will become the financial dictator of the whole earth!"

"Undoubtedly," again responded Dr. Syx, unmoved. "That is what I purpose to become. My discovery
entitles me to no less. But, remember, I place myself under government inspection and restriction.
I should not be allowed to flood the market, even if I were disposed to do so. But my own interest
would restrain me. It is to my advantage that artemisium, once adopted, shall remain stable
in value."

A shadow of doubt suddenly crossed the president's face.

"Suppose your secret is discovered," he said. "Surely your mine will not remain the only one.
If you, in so short a time, have been able to accumulate an immense quantity of the new metal,
it must be extremely abundant. Others will discover it, and then where shall we be?"

While Mr. Boon uttered these words, those who were watching Dr. Syx (as the president was not)
resembled persons whose startled eyes are fixed upon a wild beast preparing to spring. As Mr.
Boon ceased speaking he turned towards the visitor, and instantly his lips fell apart and his
face paled.

Dr. Syx had drawn himself up to his full stature, and his features were distorted with that
peculiar mocking smile which had now returned with a concentrated expression of mingled self-confidence
and disdain.

"Will you have relief, or not?" he asked in a dry, hard voice. "What can you do? I alone possess
the secret which can restore industry and commerce. If you reject my offer, do you think a
second one will come?"

President Boon found voice to reply, stammeringly:

"I did not mean to suggest a rejection of the offer. I only wished to inquire if you thought
it probable that there would be no repetition of what occurred after gold was found at the
south pole?"

"The earth may be full of my metal," returned Dr. Syx, almost fiercely, "but so long as I alone
possess the knowledge how to extract it, is it of any more worth than common dirt? But come,"
he added, after a pause and softening his manner, "I have other schemes. Will you, as representatives
of the leading nations, undertake the introduction of artemisium as a substitute for gold,
or will you not?"

"Can we not have time for deliberation?" asked President Boon.

"Yes, one hour. Within that time I shall return to learn your decision," replied Dr. Syx, rising
and preparing to depart. "I leave these things," pointing to the tray, "in your keeping, and,"
significantly, "I trust your decision will be a wise one."

His curious smile again curved his lips and shot the ends of his mustache upward, and the influence
of that smile remained in the room when he had closed the door behind him. The financiers gazed
at one another for several minutes in silence, then they turned towards the coruscating metal
that filled the tray.

III

THE GRAND TETON MINE

Away on the western border of Wyoming, in the all but inaccessible heart of the Rocky Mountains,
three mighty brothers, "The Big Tetons," look perpendicularly into the blue eye of Jenny's
Lake, lying at the bottom of the profound depression among the mountains called Jackson's Hole.
Bracing against one another for support, these remarkable peaks lift their granite spires from
12,000 to nearly 14,000 feet into the blue dome that arches the crest of the continent. Their
sides, and especially those of their chief, the Grand Teton, are streaked with glaciers, which
shine like silver trappings when the morning sun comes up above the wilderness of mountains
stretching away eastward from the hole.

When the first white men penetrated this wonderful region, and one of them bestowed his wife's
name upon Jenny's Lake, they were intimidated by the Grand Teton. It made their flesh creep,
accustomed though they were to rough scrambling among mountain gorges and on the brows of immense
precipices, when they glanced up the face of the peak, where the cliffs fall, one below another,
in a series of breathless descents, and imagined themselves clinging for dear life to those
skyey battlements.

But when, in 1872, Messrs. Stevenson and Langford finally reached the top of the Grand Teton--the
only successful members of a party of nine practised climbers who had started together from
the bottom--they found there a little rectangular enclosure, made by piling up rocks, six or
seven feet across and three feet in height, bearing evidences of great age, and indicating
that the red Indians had, for some unknown purpose, resorted to the summit of this tremendous
peak long before the white men invaded their mountains. Yet neither the Indians nor the whites
ever really conquered the Teton, for above the highest point that they attained rises a granite
buttress, whose smooth vertical sides seemed to them to defy everything but wings.

Winding across the sage-covered floor of Jackson's Hole runs the Shoshone, or Snake River,
which takes its rise from Jackson's Lake at the northern end of the basin, and then, as if
shrinking from the threatening brows of the Tetons, whose fall would block its progress, makes
a detour of one hundred miles around the buttressed heights of the range before it finds a
clear way across Idaho, and so on to the Columbia River and the Pacific Ocean.

On a July morning, about a month after the visit of Dr. Max Syx to the assembled financiers
in New York, a party of twenty horsemen, following a mountain-trail, arrived on the eastern
margin of Jackson's Hole, and pausing upon a commanding eminence, with exclamations of wonder,
glanced across the great depression, where lay the shining coils of the Snake River, at the
towering forms of the Tetons, whose ice-striped cliffs flashed lightnings in the sunshine.
Even the impassive broncos that the party rode lifted their heads inquiringly, and snorted
as if in equine astonishment at the magnificent spectacle.

One familiar with the place would have noticed something, which, to his mind, would have seemed
more surprising than the pageantry of the mountains in their morning sun-bath. Curling above
one of the wild gorges that cut the lower slopes of the Tetons was a thick black smoke, which,
when lifted by a passing breeze, obscured the precipices half-way to the summit of the peak.

Had the Grand Teton become a volcano? Certainly no hunting or exploring party could make a
smoke like that. But a word from the leader of the party of horsemen explained the mystery.

"There is my mill, and the mine is underneath it."

The speaker was Dr. Syx, and his companions were members of the financial congress. When he
quitted their presence in New York, with the promise to return within an hour for their reply,
he had no doubt in his own mind what that reply would be. He knew they would accept his proposition,
and they did. No time was then lost in communicating with the various governments, and arrangements
were quickly perfected whereby, in case the inspection of Dr. Syx's mine and its resources
proved satisfactory, America and Europe should unite in adopting the new metal as the basis
of their coinage. As soon as this stage in the negotiations was reached, it only remained to
send a committee of financiers and metallurgists, in company with Dr. Syx, to the Rocky Mountains.
They started under the doctor's guidance, completing the last stage of their journey on horseback.

"An inspection of the records at Washington," Dr. Syx continued, addressing the horsemen, "will
show that I have filed a claim covering ten acres of ground around the mouth of my mine. This
was done as soon as I had discovered the metal. The filing of the claim and the subsequent
proceedings which perfected my ownership attracted no attention, because everybody was thinking
of the south pole and its gold-fields."

The party gathered closer around Dr. Syx and listened to his words with silent attention, while
their horses rubbed noses and jingled their gold-mounted trappings.

"As soon as I had legally protected myself," he continued, "I employed a force of men, transported
my machinery and material across the mountains, erected my furnaces, and opened the mine. I
was safe from intrusion, and even from idle curiosity, for the reason I have just mentioned.
In fact, so exclusive was the attraction of the new gold-fields that I had difficulty in obtaining
workmen, and finally I sent to Africa and engaged negroes, whom I placed in charge of trustworthy
foremen. Accordingly, with half a dozen exceptions, you will see only black men at the mine."

"And with their aid you have mined enough metal to supply the mints of the world?" asked President
Boon.

"Exactly so," was the reply. "But I no longer employ the large force which I needed at first."

"How much metal have you on hand? I am aware that you have already answered this question during
our preliminary negotiations, but I ask it again for the benefit of some members of our party
who were not present then."

"I shall show you to-day," said Dr. Syx, with his curious smile, "2500 tons of refined artemisium,
stacked in rock-cut vaults under the Grand Teton."

"And you have dared to collect such inconceivable wealth in one place?"

"You forget that it is not wealth until the people have learned to value it, and the governments
have put their stamp upon it."

"True, but how did you arrive at the proper moment?"

"Easily. I first ascertained that before the Antarctic discoveries the world contained altogether
about 16,000 tons of gold, valued at $450,000 per ton, or $7,200,000,000 worth all told. Now
my metal weighs, bulk for bulk, one-quarter as much as gold. It might be reckoned at the same
intrinsic value per ton, but I have considered it preferable to take advantage of the smaller
weight of the new metal, which permits us to make coins of the same size as the old ones, but
only one-quarter as heavy, by giving to artemisium four times the value per ton that gold had.
Thus only 4000 tons of the new metal are required to supply the place of the 16,000 tons of
gold. The 2500 tons which I already have on hand are more than enough for coinage. The rest
I can supply as fast as needed."

The party did not wait for further explanations. They were eager to see the wonderful mine
and the store of treasure. Spurs were applied, and they galloped down the steep trail, forded
the Snake River, and, skirting the shore of Jenny's Lake, soon found themselves gazing up the
headlong slopes and dizzy parapets of the Grand Teton. Dr. Syx led them by a steep ascent to
the mouth of the canyon, above one of whose walls stood his mill, and where the "Champ! Champ!"
of a powerful engine saluted their ears.

IV

THE WEALTH OF THE WORLD

An electric light shot its penetrating rays into a gallery cut through virgin rock and running
straight towards the heart of the Teton. The centre of the gallery was occupied by a narrow
railway, on which a few flat cars, propelled by electric power, passed to and fro. He did not importune,
but he was much new; he no longer
knew what to think, though has been so he had need. He travel away can
be expected after part within disturbed credit. Now let us could talk
of something else, will have you? "

Suddenly, to an eye situated a little way within the gallery, appeared at the entrance the
dark face of Dr. Syx, wearing its most discomposing smile, and a moment later the broader countenance
of President Boon loomed in the electric glare beside the doctor's black framework of eyebrows
and mustache. Behind them were grouped the other visiting financiers.

"This tunnel," said Dr. Syx, "leads to the mine head, where the ore-bearing rock is blasted."

As he spoke a hollow roar issued from the depths of the mountain, followed in a short time
by a gust of foul air.

"You probably will not care to go in there," said the doctor, "and, in fact, it is very uncomfortable.
But we shall follow the next car-load to the smelter, and you can witness the reduction of
the ore."

Accordingly when another car came rumbling out of the tunnel, with its load of cracked rock,
they all accompanied it into an adjoining apartment, where it was cast into a metallic shute,
through which, they were informed, it reached the furnace.

"While it is melting," explained Dr. Syx, "certain elements, the nature of which I must beg
to keep secret, are mixed with the ore, causing chemical action which results in the extraction
of the metal. Now let me show you pure artemisium issuing from the furnace."

He led the visitors through two apartments into a third, one side of which was walled by the
front of a furnace. From this projected two or three small spouts, and iridescent streams of
molten metal fell from the spouts into earthen receptacles from which the blazing liquid was
led, like flowing iron, into a system of molds, where it was allowed to cool and harden.

