GEORGE BORROW THE MAN AND HIS BOOKS

BY EDWARD THOMAS

AUTHOR OF

"THE LIFE OF RICHARD JEFFERIES," "LIGHT AND TWILIGHT," "REST AND UNREST," "MAURICE MAETERLINCK,"
ETC.

WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON CHAPMAN & HALL, LTD. 1912

Printed by JAS. TRUSCOTT AND SON, LTD., London, E.C.

{picture: George Borrow, (From the painting by H. W. Phillips, R.A., in the possession of Mr.
John Murray, by whose kind permission the picture is reproduced.): page0.jpg}

NOTE

The late Dr. W. I. Knapp's Life (John Murray) and Mr. Watts-Dunton's prefaces are the fountains
of information about Borrow, and I have clearly indicated how much I owe to them.  What I owe
to my friend, Mr. Thomas Seccombe, cannot be so clearly indicated, but his prefaces have been
meat and drink to me.  I have also used Mr. R. A. J. Walling's sympathetic and interesting
"George Borrow."  The British and Foreign Bible Society has given me permission to quote from
Borrow's letters to the Society, edited in 1911 by the Rev. T. H. Darlow; and Messrs. T. C.
Cantrill and J. Pringle have put at my disposal their publication of Borrow's journal of his
second Welsh tour, wonderfully annotated by themselves ("Y Cymmrodor," 1910).  These and other
sources are mentioned where they are used and in the bibliography.

DEDICATION TO E. S. P. HAYNES

MY DEAR HAYNES,

By dedicating this book to you, I believe it is my privilege to introduce you and Borrow. 
This were sufficient reason for the dedication.  The many better reasons are beyond my eloquence,
much though I have remembered them this winter, listening to the storms of Caermarthen Bay,
the screams of pigs, and the street tunes of "Fall in and follow me," "Yip-i-addy," and "The
first good joy that Mary had."

Yours, EDWARD THOMAS.

LAUGHARNE, CAERMARTHENSHIRE, December, 1911.

CHAPTER I--BORROW'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY

The subject of this book was a man who was continually writing about himself, whether openly
or in disguise.  He was by nature inclined to thinking about himself and when he came to write
he naturally wrote about himself; and his inclination was fortified by the obvious impression
made upon other men by himself and by his writings.  He has been dead thirty years; much has
been written about him by those who knew him or knew those that did: yet the impression still
made by him, and it is one of the most powerful, is due mainly to his own books.  Nor has anything
lately come to light to provide another writer on Borrow with an excuse. The impertinence of
the task can be tempered only by its apparent hopelessness and by that necessity which Voltaire
did not see.

I shall attempt only a re-arrangement of the myriad details accessible to all in the writings
of Borrow and about Borrow.  Such re-arrangement will sometimes heighten the old effects and
sometimes modify them.  The total impression will, I hope, not be a smaller one, though it
must inevitably be softer, less clear, less isolated, less gigantic.  I do not wish, and I
shall not try, to deface Borrow's portrait of himself; I can only hope that I shall not do
it by accident.  There may be a sense in which that portrait can be called inaccurate.  It
may even be true that "lies--damned lies" {1} helped to make it.  But nobody else knows anything
like as much about the truth, and a peddling biographer's mouldy fragment of plain fact may
be far more dangerous than the manly lying of one who was in possession of all the facts. 
In most cases the fact--to use an equivocal term--is dead and blown away in dust while Borrow's
impression is as green as grass.  His "lies" are lies only in the same sense as all clothing
is a lie.

For example, he knew a Gypsy named Ambrose Smith, and had sworn brotherhood with him as a boy.
He wrote about this Gypsy, man and boy, and at first called him, as the manuscripts bear witness,
by his real name, though Borrow thought of him in 1842 as Petulengro.  In print he was given
the name Jasper Petulengro--Petulengro being Gypsy for shoesmith--and as Jasper Petulengro
he is now one of the most unforgetable of heroes; the name is the man, and for many Englishmen
his form and character have probably created quite a new value for the name of Jasper.  Well,
Jasper Petulengro lives.  Ambrose Smith died in 1878, at the age of seventy-four, after being
visited by the late Queen Victoria at Knockenhair Park: he was buried in Dunbar Cemetery. {2}

In the matter of his own name Borrow made another creative change of a significant kind.  He
was christened George Henry Borrow on July 17th (having been born on the 5th), 1803, at East
Dereham, in Norfolk.  As a boy he signed his name, George Henry Borrow.  As a young man of
the Byronic age and a translator of Scandinavian literature, he called himself in print, George
Olaus Borrow.  His biographer, Dr. William Ireland Knapp, says that Borrow's first name "expressed
the father's admiration for the reigning monarch," George III.; but there is no reason to believe
this, and certainly Borrow himself made of the combination which he finally adopted--George
Borrow--something that retains not the slightest flavour of any other George.  Such changes
are common enough. John Richard Jefferies becomes Richard Jefferies; Robert Lewis Balfour Stevenson
becomes Robert Louis Stevenson.  But Borrow could touch nothing without transmuting it.  For
example, in his Byronic period, when he was about twenty years of age, he was translating "romantic
ballads" from the Danish.  In the last verse of one of these, called "Elvir Hill," he takes
the liberty of using the Byronic "lay":

   'Tis therefore I counsel each young Danish swain who may ride in the
   forest so dreary,
   Ne'er to lay down upon lone Elvir Hill though he chance to be ever so
   weary.

Twenty years later he used this ballad romantically in writing about his early childhood. 
He was travelling with his father's regiment from town to town and from school to school, and
they came to Berwick-upon-Tweed: {3}

"And it came to pass that, one morning, I found myself extended on the bank of a river.  It
was a beautiful morning of early spring; small white clouds were floating in the heaven, occasionally
veiling the countenance of the sun, whose light, as they retired, would again burst forth,
coursing like a racehorse over the scene--and a goodly scene it was! Before me, across the
water, on an eminence, stood a white old city, surrounded with lofty walls, above which rose
the tops of tall houses, with here and there a church or steeple.  To my right hand was a long
and massive bridge, with many arches and of antique architecture, which traversed the river.
The river was a noble one; the broadest that I had hitherto seen.  Its waters, of a greenish
tinge, poured with impetuosity beneath the narrow arches to meet the sea, close at hand, as
the boom of the billows breaking distinctly upon a beach declared.  There were songs upon the
river from the fisher-barks; and occasionally a chorus, plaintive and wild, such as I had never
heard before, the words of which I did not understand, but which at the present time, down
the long avenue of years, seem in memory's ear to sound like 'Horam, coram, dago.' Several
robust fellows were near me, some knee-deep in water, employed in hauling the seine upon the
strand.  Huge fish were struggling amidst the meshes--princely salmon--their brilliant mail
of blue and silver flashing in the morning beam; so goodly and gay a scene, in truth, had never
greeted my boyish eye.

"And, as I gazed upon the prospect, my bosom began to heave, and my tears to trickle.  Was
it the beauty of the scene which gave rise to these emotions?  Possibly; for though a poor
ignorant child--a half-wild creature--I was not insensible to the loveliness of nature, and
took pleasure in the happiness and handiworks of my fellow-creatures.  Yet, perhaps, in something
more deep and mysterious the feeling which then pervaded me might originate.  Who can lie down
on Elvir Hill without experiencing something of the sorcery of the place?  Flee from Elvir
Hill, young swain, or the maids of Elle will have power over you, and you will go elf-wild!--so
say the Danes.  I had unconsciously laid myself down on haunted ground; and I am willing to
imagine that what I then experienced was rather connected with the world of spirits and dreams
than with what I actually saw and heard around me.  Surely the elves and genii of the place
were conversing, by some inscrutable means, with the principle of intelligence lurking within
the poor uncultivated clod! Perhaps to that ethereal principle the wonders of the past, as
connected with that stream, the glories of the present, and even the history of the future,
were at that moment being revealed!  Of how many feats of chivalry had those old walls been
witness, when hostile kings contended for their possession?--how many an army from the south
and from the north had trod that old bridge?--what red and noble blood had crimsoned those
rushing waters?--what strains had been sung, ay, were yet being sung on its banks?--some soft
as Doric reed; some fierce and sharp as those of Norwegian Skaldaglam; some as replete with
wild and wizard force as Finland's runes, singing of Kalevale's moors, and the deeds of Woinomoinen!
Honour to thee, thou island stream!  Onward mayst thou ever roll, fresh and green, rejoicing
in thy bright past, thy glorious present, and in vivid hope of a triumphant future!  Flow on,
beautiful one!--which of the world's streams canst thou envy, with thy beauty and renown? 
Stately is the Danube, rolling in its might through lands romantic with the wild exploits of
Turk, Polak, and Magyar!  Lovely is the Rhine! on its shelvy banks grows the racy grape; and
strange old keeps of robber-knights of yore are reflected in its waters, from picturesque crags
and airy headlands!--yet neither the stately Danube, nor the beauteous Rhine, with all their
fame, though abundant, needst thou envy, thou pure island stream!--and far less yon turbid
river of old, not modern renown, gurgling beneath the walls of what was once proud Rome, towering
Rome, Jupiter's town, but now vile Rome, crumbling Rome, Batuscha's town, far less needst thou
envy the turbid Tiber of bygone fame, creeping sadly to the sea, surcharged with the abominations
of modern Rome--how unlike to thee, thou pure island stream!"

In this passage Borrow concentrates upon one scene the feelings of three remote periods of
his life.  He gives the outward scene as he remembers it forty years after, and together with
the thoughts which now come into his mind.  He gives the romantic suggestion from one of the
favourite ballads of his youth, "Elvir Hill."  He gives the child himself weeping, he knows
not why.  Yet the passage is one and indivisible.

These, at any rate, are not "lies--damned lies."

CHAPTER II--HIS OWN HERO

Borrow's principal study was himself, and in all his best books he is the chief subject and
the chief object.  Yet when he came to write confessedly and consecutively about himself he
found it no easy task.  Dr. Knapp gives an interesting account of the stages by which he approached
and executed it.  His first mature and original books, "The Zincali," or "The Gypsies of Spain,"
and "The Bible in Spain," had a solid body of subject matter more or less interesting in itself,
and anyone with a pen could have made it acceptable to the public which desires information. As for payment, the city was proud of her millionaire. Neither the Bank Spain had the
formality and confidence at home. No employee or tables, all the flat foot, but could order
thousands of dollars, as he wanted, he had no to get into her bedroom and pulled mysterious
recesses each stack of bills that got fear.

And this lucky rustic, to be rich, no more merit than the whim of fate, it was smart air of petulance
that provides money and harassed Rafael, his deputy, a railway tariff reform to spread the orange inside
Spain. As if he had plans need to become rich!

Of his wretched past it was only a trace: respect for the House of Brülls. Was a certain arrogance
to the whole city, but could not hide his respect for inspired Dona Bernarda, which was coupled
with a deep gratitude for the kindness with which he distinguished to see rich and direct
interest in her child. I never forget the father of Raphael, the greatest man he had met in his
life and he seemed to see him still as when stopped at his house as a gardener, on his great
steed and with an air of Lord commands what to do in the next election. He knew the poor condition
of the great man had left their business to die, and more than once he had given money to Dona
Bernarda, proud that it in your troubles will be given the honor of fetch, but for him the house
Brülls, poor or rich, was always the masters house, the birthplace of that dynasty whose authority
no could bring down power whatsoever. If he had money, the other ah! the others were far away,
in Madrid, powerful friends, came when they wanted to the throne were of those who had the
upper hand, and whether their presence was whispered that Rafael's mother thought his daughter
in-law, Don Matias satisfaction blushed and murmured modestly

- I do not know, I think everything is hearsay. My Remedios is only a town girl and Deputy Madrid
want a great lady.

Rafael had long known the counsel of his mother. He did not want those people. The father, sticky
despite plans to offer fans, it was nice and showing respect to his family. The daughter was
negligible, with no other beauty than the freshness of young, dark, hiding behind the gentle
obtuse intellect more helpful than the father alone was the devotion
and the scruples that had been brought.

That morning happened twice with Rafael, followed by an old maid, with all the gravity of an orphan
who has to deal with the government of their home and act as the old lady. He hardly looked
at him. The gentle smile of future servant who greeted him with other times had vanished. She was
pale and colorless lips pursed. Surely it seen from a distance talking and laughing with Leonora.
Soon his mother would know the game.

That girl seemed to regard him as their own, and his gesture was a bad mood and that of the wife prepares
for a scene of jealousy in camera.

As if a hazard Amagase leave of don Matias and his friends and avoiding a new meeting with Remedios,
left the market.

Leonora was still there. The expected in the way of the garden, had to take this morning.

The field seemed to tremble under the first kisses of spring. Cubríanse young leaves the slender
poplars that lined the road in the gardens, warmed by the orange new blood opened their buds, preparing
to launch an explosion of white perfume orange blossom, on the slopes
tangled hair growing between the first grass flowers.

Rafael sat by the roadside, caressed by the cool grass. How well that smell!

Violet, scary and fragrant, was walking nearby, hidden under the leaves. His hands searched along
the ridge of purple flowers, whose scent makes you dream tremors
love.

Form a bouquet to offer it to Leonora as pass.

He felt encouraged by a boldness he had never known and his hands
burning with fever.

Such it was the emotion that gave him his own daring. He was determined to decide their fate
that morning. The fatuity of the man believed to be a fool and want to enhance the eyes of her
fans excited, giving a cynical audacity.

What would his friends, who envied him as Leonora's lover, knowing
it was him insignificant as a friend as a good boy who distracted
in the solitude of her voluntary exile?

A few kisses on the hand, four nice words, some cruel jokes Comrade that is conscious of his
superiority ... All this was achieved after many months of assiduous
court to resist his mother, living at home as a stranger, without
affection and under eye of outrage, to surrender entirely to the slander
of enemies I supposed affair with the artist and made a fuss in the
name of morality.

I would laugh if they knew the truth, those skulls in recounting Casino having love affairs
always preface the sudden push, fight, possession violent grips the edge of a path under an orange
or dark corner of a house!

And Rafael, disturbed by the fear of appearing ridiculous, it was
said that those were gross perhaps correct, that this would succeed,
and that he suffered because of him, for behold Leonora respectfully,
by far, as an idolater submissive.

Christ! Was not he the man and therefore the strongest? Well, do you feel the authority of the sex.
He liked and had to be yours. Also, when she was so fondly, you probably wanted. Scruples were
all that kept them apart and he was responsible for the violent searching
first occasion.

I had just come complete and compelling the brutal decision between
the continuous fluctuations of weak and irresolute character, he heard
voices on the road, and sitting was coming to Leonora followed by
the two peasants with the torso bent over the heavy baskets.

- Again!
- The artist said with a laugh that his throat swelled mild tremors
.-- You is my shadow.

In the market, on the road, everywhere I get to meet ...

He took the bunch of violets that offered the young, inhaling with delight.

- Thanks, Rafael, are the first to see this year.

It's here my faithful friend, the spring you bring me, but days ago guessed arrival. I'm happy,
do not you notice it?

I seem to have been during the winter matted silk worm in the bud, and now I'm going to sprout
wings and fly this huge green room exhaled her first perfume. Do not you feel the same?

Rafael said gravely. He also felt the blood boiling, punctures of life in all its pores.

And stared with wild eyes that bare throat of tantalizing clarity, enhanced by the red handkerchief
robust chest, on which rested her violets smooth softness.

The two orchard to see Rafael exchanged a sly smile, a wink significant and passed in front of
the lady with the purpose marked as not to interfere with their presence.

-
Follow you - said Leonora .-- We will go slowly to home.

They left the two women live step, talking quietly. Leonora guess smile their faces invisible.

- Have you seen these? - Said pointing his umbrella closed .-- Have not you noticed their smiles
and winks at him on the road? ... Oh, Rafael! You are blind and is terrible. If I had to save
my reputation, aviada was with a friend like you. What things pose there!

And smile with an expression of superiority, considering well above what they could that the people
of his friendship with Rafael.

- In the market you tell me about all the vendors as if this was for me the most irresistible of
flattery; ensure that we are a proud partner. My gardener takes all occasions to tell me you're
very handsome. You give thanks ... What else? Even my aunt, my poor aunt who lives in limbo, has
left it to me the other day: "You know Rafaelito here so much? If you want to marry you? "You see,
married ha! Ha! Ha! Married! The poor lady did not see more than this in the world.

And he kept throwing in the face of Rafael, dark and evil thoughts, that hearty laughter and mocking
chatter seemed a mischievous bird satisfied with his freedom.

- But what do you frown today! Are you sick? ... What happens?

Rafael seized the moment. I was sick, yes, sick of love. He understood that the entire city
speak of them, he could not hide his feelings. If I knew what it cost that silent worship! I wanted
to start thinking of devotion to her, and could not. Needed see, hear, and only lived for her.
"Read? impossible. Talk to your friends? All repugnant to him. Their home was a cave that
went to great effort to eat and sleep. She left as soon as you wake up and leave town, it looked
like a prison. The field, and the field the blue house where she lived. Which eagerly awaiting the arrival
of the afternoon, the time by an unspoken custom, neither scored, he could enter the garden and
find it in your bank under the palms! ... I could not live like this. Poor People powerful
envied him, so young deputy, and he wanted to be ... You'll never guess what? What absurd things!
Leonora is not mocked!

The terms would be that the bank was for the garden, gently crushed by the weight of your
entire afternoons, to become the work revolving in his delicate fingers,
by transforming themselves into one of the people around her at all
times, of that Beppa, for example, that the wake in the morning, leaning
asleep on his head, moving with her breath her hair undone, scattered
as a wave of gold on the pillow and wiped her ivory flesh out the
bathroom, sliding your hands for incoming and outgoing curves of her
soft body.

Servant, animal, inanimate object something that was in constant
contact with him, that he craved: not to be compelled to the arrival
of the night away after a prolonged farewell ending child pretexts,
to return to the irritating banality of his life, the solitude of
her room, in which dark corners, as evil temptation, he thought he
saw eyes fixed on green.

Leonora was not laughing. Abríanse inordinately gold flecked eyes, quivering with excitement
the alillas of his nose, and seemed sincerely moved by the eloquent young.

- Poor Rafael! Poor me! ... What do we do?

In the garden, Rafael had never dared to speak so frankly. Le proximity self-conscious of relatives
of Leonora, intimidated him and mocking the surface air with which she received visits, the
irony with which he aimed it a little disconcerting words of love. But there in the middle
of the road, was another thing was free, I wanted to empty his heart. What torment! Every day he
went to the blue house trembling hope, troubled by the illusion. "Perhaps is today, "they said.
And his legs trembled, and saliva in his throat seemed to solidify, drowning. And hours later
in the evening, desperate to return home, marching discouraged in light of the stars, zigzagging
on the road as if he were drunk, feeling beetles tears on the eyelids, wanting to die, as it
needs to pass breaks forward and fists against a huge wall of ice blocks. Did not noticed him?
Do not see the huge efforts made to please? ... Ignorant, humble, recognizing the vast difference
that separates them both for their different life, what's efforts to reach his height, for
those placed at the level of men who had owned for a few days or whole years! She must have noticed.
If the Count was speaking Russian model of elegance, Rafael next day, to the astonishment of his
home, took out his best clothes, and sweating under the sun, oppressed by the high collar, undertook
that journey it was her Street of Bitterness, walk like a lady so that dust does not dampen
the shine of their boots. If the musician German crossed the memory of Leonora, he revisited
his books, and affecting the outside neglect of those artists seen
in the novels, arrived there with the purpose of discussing the immortal
master of Wagner, whom he hardly knew, but she adored as a person
family ... My God!

All this was ridiculous, he knew him best was presented without disguise, with all its smallness. Acknowledged
that it was impossible that struggle to match with the thousand ghosts that filled the memory
of Leonora, but do not do it for wake that heart to be loved for
a moment, a day any more, and then die!

And there was such sincerity in this confession of love, Leonora,
increasingly agitated, approached to him, taped to his body walked
unwittingly and smiled slightly, repeating his phrase, mixture of
maternal affection and pity.

- Poor Rafael!

... Poor me!

They had reached the gate leading into the garden. The avenue was
deserted.

In the square, shut off the house, ran around the chickens.

Rafael, overwhelmed by the effort of that confession, which took account of anguish and dreams of
many months, he leaned against the trunk of an old orange. Leonora was facing listening to him with
bowed head, scratching the soil with the tip of his red umbrella.

Dying, yes, he had read this many times in novels could not suppress
a smile.

Now you do not laugh. I had thought a few nights in the confusion of delirium, end that love
tragically. The blood of his father, violent and domineering, boiled in it. If she convinced
that it would never be his, was not to kill anyone, and kill him later! Drop the two on the
ground soaked with blood, as on a bed of red damask, kiss him in the cold lips, without fear
that no one bothered him, kiss her and kiss her until the last breath of life was lost in
the pale face of it.

She said with conviction, vibrating all the muscles of his face manly, burning like coals Moor
her eyes streaked for the passion of blood veins.

And Leonora was looking at him now passion, as if he saw a new man. Trembled with emotion on hearing
the new barbarians dreams, death threats.

That is not gloomily as the poet killed Italian looking lost love died killing, destroyed the idol,
if not attended to his pleas.

And sweetly moved by the tragic expression of Rafael, was carried away by it, that had taken
an arm and drew her away from the avenue between the tops of the orange low.

Both remained silent for long. Leonora seemed intoxicated by the virile perfume of those threats
of wild passion.

Rafael, the head down and quietly watch the artist, thought he had offended his words and repented
of them.

Should forgive him, he was crazy. Exasperated at his strength is inexplicable. Lenore Lenore
Why strive to hinder the work of love?

He was not indifferent to her, not inspired dislike or hate, otherwise they would not be friends
and would allow continued visits.

Love? ... I was sure that was not sorry for him, poor man, unable to inspire passion for a
woman like her. But do not resist, and eventually love him, he achieved conquer by force of
love and of worship. Ay! with only his love, was for the two and all the famous lovers in history.
It would be his slave, the carpet that would his feet, the dog always tended to her, his eyes
burning of eternal fidelity, would end up loving him, if not for love, gratitude and pity.
And as he spoke, brought his face close to Leonora, seeking his image
at the bottom of the eyes green, pressed his arm with the fever of
passion.

- Careful, Rafael ... do you hurt me, Let me go you.

And
as if awakened in the middle of danger after a sweet dream, she shuddered,
detachment with a nervous impulse.

Then he began to speak calmly,
and record of drunkenness that had troubled the passionate words of
Raphael.

No, what he wanted was impossible. The die was cast, I did
not love ... Friendship I had taken something away. She was to blame,
but know about it. It was already a boat old who could not bear the
weight of a new passion. If I had known years before, maybe. He acknowledged
that he had come to love him, he thought more worthy of your love
others men she had loved. But it was late, now I just wanted to live.
What horror! The emotions of passion in a mean, in that small world
of trivia and gossip!

A little later in the same chapter he describes how, before he was four years old, near Hythe,
in Kent, he saw in a penthouse against an old village church, "skulls of the old Danes":

"'Long ago' (said the sexton, with Borrow's aid), 'long ago they came pirating into these parts:
and then there chanced a mighty shipwreck, for God was angry with them, and He sunk them; and
their skulls, as they came ashore, were placed here as a memorial.  There were many more when
I was young, but now they are fast disappearing.  Some of them must have belonged to strange
fellows, madam.  Only see that one; why, the two young gentry can scarcely lift it!'  And,
indeed, my brother and myself had entered the Golgotha, and commenced handling these grim relics
of mortality.  One enormous skull, lying in a corner, had fixed our attention, and we had drawn
it forth.  Spirit of eld, what a skull was yon!

"I still seem to see it, the huge grim thing; many of the others were large, strikingly so,
and appeared fully to justify the old man's conclusion that their owners must have been strange
fellows; but compared with this mighty mass of bone they looked small and diminutive, like
those of pigmies; it must have belonged to a giant, one of those red-haired warriors of whose
strength and stature such wondrous tales are told in the ancient chronicles of the north, and
whose grave-hills, when ransacked, occasionally reveal secrets which fill the minds of puny
moderns with astonishment and awe.  Reader, have you ever pored days and nights over the pages
of Snorro? probably not, for he wrote in a language which few of the present day understand,
and few would be tempted to read him tamed down by Latin dragomans.  A brave old book is that
of Snorro, containing the histories and adventures of old northern kings and champions, who
seemed to have been quite different men, if we may judge from the feats which they performed,
from those of these days.  One of the best of his histories is that which describes the life
of Harald Haardraade, who, after manifold adventures by land and sea, now a pirate, now a mercenary
of the Greek emperor, became King of Norway, and eventually perished at the battle of Stanford
Bridge, whilst engaged in a gallant onslaught upon England.  Now, I have often thought that
the old Kemp, whose mouldering skull in the Golgotha at Hythe my brother and myself could scarcely
lift, must have resembled in one respect at least this Harald, whom Snorro describes as a great
and wise ruler and a determined leader, dangerous in battle, of fair presence, and measuring
in height just five ells, neither more nor less."

Of this incident he says he need offer no apology for relating it "as it subsequently exercised
considerable influence over his pursuits," i.e., his study of Danish literature; but in the
proof he added also that the incident, "perhaps more than anything else, tended to bring my
imaginative powers into action"--this he cut out, though the skulls may have impressed him
as the skeleton disinterred by a horse impressed Richard Jefferies and haunted him in his "Gamekeeper,"
"Meadow Thoughts," and elsewhere.

Sometimes he modified a showy phrase, and "when I became ambitious of the title of Lavengro
and strove to deserve it" was cut down to "when I became a student." This charm is the mystery of Margaret, from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and
stand out with such truth of the picture and the soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and
is recorded in a wide indelible memory as if it had existed.  In the description of young Jasper he changed his "short arms
like" his father, into "long arms unlike."

In the fourteenth chapter Borrow describes his father's retirement from the army after Waterloo,
and his settling down at Norwich, so poor as to be anxious for his children's future. Similarly owes much Goethe's
Faust Goethe and Faust. No wonder Goethe seize him in his first youth, and not leave him for
over 50 years, until age 82. What Goethe did not write in this half century long?
  Originally he went on thus, but cut out the words from
the proof:

"Yet I have reason for concluding that they were not altogether overlooked by a certain power
still higher than even the aristocracy of England and with yet more extensive influence in
the affairs of the world. Doña Inés hate us if we accept
     the proposition you, but we hate and we further declare war if you
     find that we do not accept, looking as to despise his father with
     unfounded arrogance. Matter So hide all this.
     

     Here I return to you your letter. Tear and rip mine to is no written
     proof of what happened, and keep you in your memory fond memories
     of us.

This change is a relief to the style.  The next which I shall quote is something more than
that. And why he married? To remedy this, because she had insider enough money with a large
poultry house, and even more with his ability to avian chickens. Although going to the sly
and not spend whistle, called the gringa. What a feeling in those fingers executioners! To escape
her as pliers entrecogía what I was groping in the poor animals, and left dozens Aviados, without
being in disgrace No operation. Then the barley and put Gordis and sold very expensive.

But in the proof his mother adds to her speech, "He is no longer in Ireland," and the father
takes her up with, "So much the better for him; yet should he ever fall into evil practices,
I shall always lay it to the account of that melancholy sojourn in Ireland and the acquaintances
he formed there."

