Told Lord Melbourne that the Prince wished him to impress upon the Queen's mind not to act
upon the approaching crisis without the Prince, because she would not be able to go through
difficulties by herself, and the Prince would not be able to help her when he was ignorant
of the considerations which had influenced her actions. He would wish Lord Melbourne when with
the Queen to call in the Prince, in order that they might both be set right upon Lord Melbourne's
opinions, that he might express in the presence of each other his views, in order that he should
not convey different impressions by speaking to them separately, so that they might act in concert.

The Prince says the Queen always sees what is right at a glance, but if her feelings run contrary
she avoids the Prince's arguments, which she feels sure agree with her own, and seeks arguments
to support her wishes against her convictions from other people.

[Pageheading: DISSOLUTION OR RESIGNATION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 7th May 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and laments much the prospect that
lies before us, more especially as it is so repugnant to your Majesty's feelings. Your Majesty
has often observed that these events must come in the course of affairs at some moment or another,
but Lord Melbourne knows not whether it is much consolation to reflect that what is very disagreeable
is also natural and unavoidable. Lord Melbourne feels certain that your Majesty will consider
the situation calmly and impartially, will do that which shall appear the best for your own
interests and those of the country, which are identical.

Everything shall be done that can be; the questions which may arise shall be considered well,
and upon as full information as can be obtained. But Lord Melbourne has little to add to what
he wrote to your Majesty yesterday. So many interests are affected by this Sugar question,
the West Indian, the East Indian, the opponents of Slavery and others, that no small number
of our supporters will be induced either to stay away or to vote against us, and this must
place us in a minority upon the main points of our Budget. In this we can hardly acquiesce,
nor can we adopt a different policy and propose other taxes, when in our opinion the necessary
revenue can be raised without imposing them. This state of things imposes upon us the alternative
of dissolution or of resignation, and to try the former without succeeding in it would be to
place both your Majesty and ourselves in a worse situation than that in which we are at present.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 8th May 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. We have been considering this question
of dissolution at the Cabinet, and we have had before us a general statement of the public
returns for England and Wales. It is not very favourable, but Lord Melbourne fears that it
is more favourable than the reality would prove. The Chancellor,[23] Palmerston, and Hobhouse
are strongly for dissolution, but the opinion of the majority is the other way, and in that
opinion Lord Melbourne is strongly inclined to agree.

Lord Melbourne will have the honour of waiting upon your Majesty to-morrow at three.

    [Footnote 23: The Earl of Cottenham.]

[Pageheading: SIR ROBERT PEEL]

Memorandum by Mr Anson. 

The scandal had wished a sort question among exposed respectable Yorkers,
as so as among the who were not well respectable; and same attack on
his Erie was beginning to assure success.

ROBERT was any spot for the administration, and it was thought to be financially
to come them now, where they were well and socially sensitive. The
tactics suited him told in another way, through a expression about
more America in the appraisal given ten times the attentiveness to
the America that the bedchamber would to attract in the right.



That Her Majesty was anxious that the question of the removal of the Ladies of the Bedchamber
should not be revived, and would wish that in any personal communication with Sir Robert this
question might be avoided.

That it might be arranged that if Sir Robert would not insist upon carrying out his principle,
Her Majesty might procure the resignation of any Ladies whom Sir Robert might object to; that
I thought there might be a disposition to yield to the removal of the Mistress of the Robes,
Lady Normanby, and the Duchess of Bedford, as being connected with leading political persons
in Government.

Endeavoured to impress upon Sir Robert that if he acts fairly and kindly towards the Queen,
he will be met in the same spirit.

Sir Robert said he had considered the probable object of my interview, and thought, from my
former position with Lord Melbourne, that Lord Melbourne would be aware of my coming. He must
be assured of this before he could speak confidentially to me.

Upon this I admitted that Lord Melbourne had knowledge of my intention, but that I was not
authorised to say that he had.

Sir Robert said, "I shall put aside all form, and treat you frankly and confidentially. You
may depend upon every word you say being held as sacred. No part, without further permission,
shall be mentioned even to the Duke, much less to any of my other colleagues.

"I would waive every pretension to office, I declare to God! sooner than that my acceptance
of it should be attended with any personal humiliation to the Queen."

He thought that giving in the names of those Ladies whom he considered obnoxious was an offensive
course towards the Queen.

For the sake of office, which he did not covet, he could not concede any constitutional principle,
but it was not necessary that that principle should be mooted.

"It would be repulsive to my feelings that Her Majesty should part with any of her Ladies,
as the result of a forced stipulation on my part; in a party sense it would doubtless be advantageous
to me to say that I had demanded from the Queen, and the Queen had conceded to me the appointments
of these three Ladies."

The mode he would like, and which he considered as least objectionable for Her Majesty, was
for Her Majesty to say to him, "There is no occasion to revive this constitutional question,
as those ladies immediately connected with prominent members of the Administration have sent
in their resignation."

The vacancies existing before Sir Robert Peel sees Her Majesty, there is no necessity for discussion.

On the one hand, by this means, there was less appearance of insult to the Queen, and on the
other, there was no appearance of concession of principle upon his.

Sir Robert was ready to make any personal sacrifice for Her Majesty's comfort, except that
of his honour. "Can the Queen for an instant suppose that I would permit my party to urge me
on to insist upon anything incompatible with Her Majesty's dignity, which it would be my great
aim and honour to defend?"

[This was his indignant reply to my remark upon the rumours that his party would press him
to coerce and subdue Her Majesty.]

Sir Robert thinks it better for the Queen to avoid anything in the shape of a stipulation.
He would like what he would have done upon a former occasion (and upon which, on the honour
of a gentleman, his views had undergone no change) to be taken as a test of what he would be
ready to concede to.

Nothing but misconception, he said, could in his opinion have led to failure before. "Had the
Queen told me" (after the question was mooted, which it never need have been) "that those three
ladies immediately connected with the Government had tendered their resignation, I should have
been perfectly satisfied, and should have consulted the Queen's feelings in replacing them."

Sir Robert said this conversation shall remain sacred, and to all effect, as if it had never
happened, until he saw me again to-morrow morning.

There is nothing said, he added, which in any way pledges or compromises the Queen, the Prince,
or Lord Melbourne.

    [Footnote 24: See Parker's Sir Robert Peel, vol. ii. p. 455,
    et seq., where Peel's memorandum of the interview is set
    out.]

[Pageheading: SIR ROBERT PEEL]

[Pageheading: HOUSEHOLD APPOINTMENTS]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

INTERVIEW WITH SIR ROBERT PEEL (No. 2).

10th May 1841.

Peel said: "It is essential to my position with the Queen that Her Majesty should understand
that I have the feelings of a gentleman, and where my duty does not interfere, I cannot act
against her wishes. Her Majesty doubtless knows how pressed I am as the head of a powerful
party, but the impression I wish to create in Her Majesty's mind is, that I am bound to defend
her against their encroachments."

In regard to Household appointments the holders of which are not in Parliament, he had not
considered the question, but in the meantime he would in no way commit himself to anyone, or
to any understanding upon the subject, without previous communication. He had no personal objects
to serve, and the Queen's wishes would always be consulted.

He again repeated, that if the Queen's personal feelings would suffer less by forming an Administration
to his exclusion, he should not be offended. Private life satisfied him, and he had no ambition
beyond it.

Lord Melbourne might rest assured that he fully appreciated his aim, that his only object was
to do that which was most for Her Majesty's advantage, and no human being should know that
he was privy to this overture. Lord Melbourne might depend upon his honour. If Lord Melbourne
was pressed to a dissolution he should still feel the same impression of Lord Melbourne's conduct,
that it was honourable and straightforward.

He wished the Prince to send him a list of those Ladies whom it would be agreeable to Her Majesty
to have in her Household. Sir Robert must propose it to the Ladies, but will be entirely guided
by Her Majesty's wishes. There should be no appearance that Her Majesty has any understanding,
as he was bound to his party to make it appear that the appointments emanated from himself.[25]

    [Footnote 25: There was a further interview on the following
    day at which various detailed points were arranged.]

Memorandum by the Queen.

11th May 1841.

The Queen considers it her right (and is aware that her predecessors were peculiarly tenacious
of this right) to appoint her Household. She, however, gives up the great officers of State
and those of her Lords-in-Waiting, Equerries, and Grooms-in-Waiting, who are in Parliament,
to the appointment of the Prime Minister, subject to her approval.

The Queen has always appointed her Ladies of the Bedchamber herself, but has generally mentioned
their names to the Prime Minister before appointing them, in order to leave him room for objection
in case he should deem their appointment injurious to his Government, when the Queen would
probably not appoint the Lady.

The Maids of Honour and Women of the Bedchamber are of course not included amongst those who
are mentioned to the Prime Minister before their appointment, but are at once appointed by
the Queen.

[Pageheading: PRESSURE OF BUSINESS]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Wednesday, 12th May 1841.

"At seven minutes to five Lord Melbourne came to me and stayed till half-past five. He gave
me the copies of Anson's conversations with Peel. Lord Melbourne then gave me a letter from
the Chancellor to read, strongly advocating a dissolution, and wishing that there should be
a division also on Lord John Russell's amendment.[26]

"Lord Melbourne left the letter with me. The first part of the letter, relative to Lord John's
amendment, we think good, but the other part we can't quite agree in. 'There is to be a Cabinet
to-morrow to consider what is to be done,' said Lord Melbourne, 'for the Chancellor's opinion
must be considered. There is a preferment amongst our people for dissolution,' Lord M. added.
The feeling in the country good. I asked Lord M., 'Must they resign directly, the next day,
after the division (if they intended resigning)?' 'Why,' he said, 'it was awkward not to do
so if Parliament was sitting; if the division were only to take place on Friday, then they
needn't announce it till Monday,' which we hope will be the case, as we agreed it wouldn't
do for me to have a ball the day Lord M. had resigned, and before I had sent for anybody else,
and therefore I hoped that it could be managed that the division did not take place till Friday.
Lord M. said that in case they resigned, he wished Vernon Smith[27] to be made a Privy Councillor;
the only addition to the Peers he mentioned the other day he wished to make is Surrey;[28]
we agreed that too many Peers was always a bad thing."

    [Footnote 26: To Lord Sandon's resolution on the Sugar Duties.]

    [Footnote 27: Robert Vernon Smith (1800-1873), Under-Secretary
    for War and the Colonies, afterwards Lord Lyveden.]

    [Footnote 28: The Earl of Surrey (1791-1856) was now M.P. for
    West Sussex, and Treasurer of the Household, and was afterwards
    thirteenth Duke of Norfolk.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

11th May 1841.

... I am sure you will forgive my writing a very short letter to-day, but I am so harassed
and occupied with business that I cannot find time to write letters. You will, I am sure, feel
for me; the probability of parting from so kind and excellent a being as Lord Melbourne as
a Minister (for a friend he will always remain) is very, very painful, even if one feels it
will not probably be for long; to take it philosophically is my great wish, and quietly I certainly
shall, but one cannot help feelings of affection and gratitude. Albert is the greatest possible
comfort to me in every way, and my position is much more independent than it was before.

I am glad you see the French feeling in the right light. I rejoice that the christening, etc.,
went off so well. Believe me, ever, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: QUESTION OF DISSOLUTION]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Thursday, 13th May 1841.

"Saw Lord Melbourne at a little past four.

"... 'We have had a Cabinet,' Lord Melbourne said, 'and we have been considering the question
of dissolution and what is the best course to be pursued; if we were to dissolve, John Russell,'
he said, 'would pursue quite a different course; he would then announce the Sugar Duties at
once. I (Lord Melbourne) said, that I had been considering well the whole question, and the
Chancellor's letter, but that altogether I did not think it advisable to have recourse to a
dissolution--and I think the greater part lean towards that opinion; but there are a few who
are very much for a dissolution--the Chancellor and Hobhouse very much so, and Palmerston.
They have, however, not quite finally decided the matter. I understand the debate will certainly
go over to-night,' he said, 'and that they would have time on Saturday and Sunday to consider
about Lord John's amendment.'"

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Saturday, 15th May 1841.

"Lord Melbourne came to me at twenty minutes past one, and we talked about this question of
dissolution. 'We shall have a long debate upon it this morning at the Cabinet,' Lord Melbourne
said. 'The worst thing is, that if we carry the Sugar Duties, we must dissolve. If we were
to dissolve,' he continued, 'and were to have the parties equal as they are now, it would be
very bad; if we were to have a majority, it would be a great thing; but if we were to have
a minority it would be still worse.... We know that Charles I. and Charles II., and even Cromwell,
appealed to the country, and had a Parliament returned into their very teeth' (so strong an
Opposition), 'and that produced deposition, and convulsion, and bloodshed and death; but since
then the Crown has always had a majority returned in favour of it. Even Queen Anne,' he continued,
'who removed Marlborough in the midst of his most glorious victories and dissolved Parliament,
had an immense majority, though her measures were miserable; William IV.,' he said, 'even though
he had a majority against him which prevented him from keeping his Ministers, had a much stronger
feeling for him in that Parliament, than he ever had before. But I am afraid,' he added, 'that
for the first time the Crown would have an Opposition returned smack against it; and that would
be an affront to which I am very unwilling to expose the Crown.' This is very true."

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD'S SYMPATHY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

TUILERIES, 14th May 1841.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am deeply grateful for your kind letter, which reached me this morning.
Letters from hence ought not to be longer on their way than, at the longest, forty hours; forty-eight
is the maximum. I fear that they are delayed at the Foreign Office; here it cannot be, as for
instance these lines go this evening.

I can easily understand that the present crisis must have something very painful for you, and
you will do well for your health and comfort to try to take it as philosophically as possible;
it is a part of the Constitutional system which is for the Sovereign very hard to get over.

Nous savons tous des paroles sur cet air, as the French say. I was convinced that Lord Melbourne's
right and good feeling would make him pause before he proposed to you a dissolution. A general
election in England, when great passions must be roused or created to render it efficacious
for one party or another, is a dangerous experiment, always calculated to shake the foundations
on which have hitherto reposed the great elements of the political power of the country. Albert
will be a great comfort to you, and to hear it from yourself has given me the sincerest delight.
His judgment is good, and he is mild and safe in his opinions; they deserve your serious attention;
young as he is, I have really often been quite surprised how quick and correct his judgment is....

[Pageheading: TORY DISSENSIONS]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

The speeches of Mr Labouchere, Sir George Grey, and Lord Howick, with the powerful argument
of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Friday night, have not been met by any corresponding
ability on the other side.

In fact the Opposition seem to have concealed their own views of policy, and to have imagined
that the Anti-Slavery feeling would carry them through successfully. But this expectation has
been entirely disappointed; debate has unmasked the hollow pretence of humanity, and the meetings
at Exeter Hall and in the country have completely counteracted the impressions which Dr Lushington's
speech[30] had produced.

Lancashire, Cheshire, and the West Riding of Yorkshire have been roused to strong excitement
by the prospect of a reduction of the duty on corn. Several of the large towns have expressed
their opinions without distinction of party.

These symptoms are said to have created some dissensions among the opponents of your Majesty's
present Government.

Sir Robert Peel, Lord Stanley, and nearly all the eminent leaders of the party, profess their
adherence to the principles of Mr Huskisson.[31] On the other hand, the Duke of Buckingham,[32]
with many Lords and Commoners, is opposed to any relaxation of the present Corn Laws. This
difference must ultimately produce serious consequences, and it is possible they may break
out before the present debate is ended.

One consequence of the propositions of the Ministry is the weakening of the power of the Chartists,
who have relied on the misrepresentation that neither Whigs nor Tories would ever do anything
for the improvement of the condition of the working classes.

All these circumstances have a bearing on the question of a dissolution of Parliament, and
are to be weighed against the risks and inconveniences of so bold a measure.

    [Footnote 29: On Lord Sandon's resolution.]

    [Footnote 30: Against the Budget, on the ground that it tended
    to encourage slavery.]

    [Footnote 31: Which were opposed to Protection and the
    Navigation Laws.]

    [Footnote 32: Richard Plantagenet (1797-1861), second Duke of
    the 1822 creation, M.P. for Bucks 1818-1839, and author of
    the "Chandos clause," became Lord Privy Seal this year, but
    resigned shortly after. He dissipated his property, and had to
    sell the contents of Stowe.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S JOURNAL]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Monday, 17th May 1841.

"Lord Melbourne came to me at twenty minutes to three. There were no new news. He gave me a
letter from the Duke of Roxburgh,[33] saying he could not support Government on the Corn Laws,
and writing an unnecessarily cold letter. Lord Melbourne fears this would lose Roxburgh in
case of an election. A great many of the friends of the Government, however, are against any
alteration in the Corn Laws. These writing been analyze? This announcement attracted the man, they
would probably'Corn. Guizot, who appears to have made in inquiries could to bring that t would peel on
message, which resulted down to des'Débats, t would not, i could signify indeed, the act, but
denying its magnitude. Iii. perhaps, That Classics. Had our DR. MAITLAND could peel still meant
a office, there would wait likely not have been any question they left as to quality MSS. detect
under protection,-- albeit, as t said as i could bring to have understand on Corn for have been, not
in that librarian, or, indeed, of law, but to come some away-of-a tower. A months since the
discovery that he said at Lambeth, some wouldn, of number of documents of period. BOOKS received
i said.-- Gibbon, on Variorum, Vol. Probably their labour as they would do perhaps{ 387} do not
be thrown away. If not, why does not the Antiquaries could bring a peel, and request. At events,
as the reservation which now exists, whether valuable but unused materials for period may could not be
mouldering at Lambeth, do they would be removed; and time Carlyles would perhaps be spared
useless journeys and wasted to peel when them said i could do. A Association, and could so archepiscopal
Law to Camden meant for Melbourne, has been established in Attribute, under day they asked of the
seventy-six Society, for law.

Can so bring he said on bookworm throw this affair? If thus, what are they?
 He thinks the Tories, if in power, might try and collect
the Sugar duties without Law, which would do them a great deal of harm and be exceedingly unpopular.
He does not think the Tories intend certainly to dissolve. He thinks they would not dissolve
now, and that they would hereafter get so entangled by their own dissensions, as to render
it unfavourable to them."

    [Footnote 33: James, sixth Duke. The Duchess was afterwards a
    Lady of the Bedchamber.]

    [Footnote 34: Sir Henry Hardinge (1785-1856) had been
    Secretary at War, and Chief Secretary for Ireland, under
    former Tory Governments.]

    [Footnote 35: Master-General of the Ordnance.]

    [Footnote 36: M.P. for East Kent. He became Paymaster-General
    in Peel's Cabinet.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

18th May 1841.

... I was sure you would feel for me. Since last Monday, the 10th, we have lived in the daily
expectation of a final event taking place, and the debate still continues, and it is not certain
whether it will even finish to-night, this being the eighth night, it having begun on Friday
the 7th, two Saturdays and two Sundays having intervened! Our plans are so unsettled that I
can tell you nothing, only that you may depend upon it nothing will be done without having
been duly, properly, and maturely weighed. Lord Melbourne's conduct is as usual perfect; fair,
calm, and totally disinterested, and I am certain that in whatever position he is you will
treat him just as you have always done.

My dearest Angel is indeed a great comfort to me. He takes the greatest interest in what goes
on, feeling with and for me, and yet abstaining as he ought from biassing me either way, though
we talk much on the subject, and his judgment is, as you say, good and mild....

P.S.--Pray let me hear soon when you come. You, I know, like me to tell you what I hear, and
for me to be frank with you. I therefore tell you that it is believed by some people here,
and even by some in the Government, that you wish my Government to be out. Now, I never for
an instant can believe such an assertion, as I know your liberal feelings, and your interest
in my welfare and in that of the country too well to think you could wish for such a thing,
and I immediately said I was sure this was not so; but I think you would do well to say to
Seymour something which might imply interest in my present Government.

I know you will understand my anxiety on your account, lest such a mischievous report should
be believed. It comes, you see, from the idea that your feelings are very French.

[Pageheading: THE CORN LAWS]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Tuesday, 18th May 1841.

"Saw Lord Melbourne.[37] He said Lord John Russell had been to see him, and, 'He now wishes
us not to resign, but to give notice immediately of a Motion on the Corn Laws. This, he thinks,
will make the others propose a vote of confidence, or make them oppose the Sugar Duties, which,
he thinks, will be better for us to resign upon, and when it would be clear to our people that
we couldn't dissolve. Everybody says it would be a very bad thing for us to resign now, upon
such a question as this, and we must consider the party a little.' I said, of course, this
would be agreeable to me as it gave us another chance. I said it would be awkward if they resigned
Thursday, on account of the Birthday. Lord Melbourne said I could wait a day and only send
for Peel on Saturday, that that wouldn't signify to Peel, as he could come down to Claremont....
I asked, in case they meant to bring on this Corn Law question, when would they do so. 'Perhaps
about the 30th,' Lord Melbourne said. In reply, I did refer him dissolve to Héraldique et Historique
des Familles delaware Lord. The is the work on the age, daily, civilian, and worse ecclesiastic, who of
dominion: it was publish at Antwerp by subunit, and i is in five
small 4to. measure.

    [Footnote 37: After eight days' discussions of Lord Sandon's
    Motion, the Ministers were defeated by 317 to 281.]

[Pageheading: RESIGNATION POSTPONED]

Wednesday, 19th May.

