Copyright, 1907, by P. F. Collier & Son.

Dedicated to Georges Brandes

I

This garden of our childhood, said Monsieur Bergeret, this garden that one could pace off in
twenty steps, was for us a whole world, full of smiles and surprises.

"Lucien, do you recall Putois?" asked Zoe, smiling as usual, the lips pressed, bending over
her work.

"Do I recall Putois! Of all the faces I saw as a child that of Putois remains the clearest
in my remembrance. All the features of his face and his character are fixed in my mind. He
had a pointed cranium..."

"A low forehead," added Mademoiselle Zoe.

And the brother and sister recited alternately, in a monotonous voice, with an odd gravity,
the points in a sort of description:

"A low forehead."

"Squinting eyes."

"A shifty glance."

"Crow's-feet at the temples."

"The cheek-bones sharp, red and shining."

"His ears had no rims to them."

"The features were devoid of all expression."

"His hands, which were never still, alone expressed his meaning."

"Thin, somewhat bent, feeble in appearance..."

"In reality he was unusually strong."

"He easily bent a five-franc piece between the first finger and the thumb..."

"Which was enormous."

"His voice was drawling..."

"And his speech mild."

Suddenly Monsieur Bergeret exclaimed: "Zoe! we have forgotten 'Yellow hair and sparse beard.'
Let us begin all over again."

Pauline, who had listened with astonishment to this strange recital, asked her father and aunt
how they had been able to learn by heart this bit of prose, and why they recited it as if it
were a litany.

Monsieur Bergeret gravely answered:

"Pauline, what you have heard is a text, I may say a liturgy, used by the Bergeret family.
It should be handed down to you so that it may not perish with your aunt and me. Your grandfather,
my daughter, your grandfather, Eloi Bergeret, who was not amused with trifles, thought highly
of this bit, principally because of its origin. He called it 'The Anatomy of Putois.' And he
used to say that he preferred, in certain respects, the anatomy of Putois to the anatomy of
Quaresmeprenant. 'If the description by Xenomanes,' he said, 'is more learned and richer in
unusual and choice expressions, the description of Putois greatly surpasses it in clarity and
simplicity of style.' He held this opinion because Doctor Ledouble, of Tours, had not yet explained
chapters thirty, thirty-one, and thirty-two of the fourth book of Rabelais."

"I do not understand at all," said Pauline.

"That is because you did not know Putois, my daughter. You must understand that Putois was
the most familiar figure in my childhood and in that of your Aunt Zoe. In the house of your
grandfather Bergeret we constantly spoke of Putois. Each believed that he had seen him."

Pauline asked:

"Who was this Putois?"

Instead of replying, Monsieur Bergeret commenced to laugh, and Mademoiselle Bergeret also laughed,
her lips pressed tight together. Pauline looked from one to the other. She thought it strange
that her aunt should laugh so heartily, and more strange that she should laugh with and in
sympathy with her brother. It was indeed singular, as the brother and sister were quite different
in character.

"Papa, tell me what was Putois? Since you wish me to know, tell me."

"Putois, my daughter, was a gardener. The son of honest market-gardeners, he set up for himself
as nurseryman at Saint-Omer. But he did not satisfy his customers and got in a bad way. Having
given up business, he went out by the day. Those who employed him could not always congratulate
themselves."

At this, Mademoiselle Bergeret, laughing, rejoined;

"Do you recall, Lucien, when our father could not find his ink, his pens, his sealing-wax,
his scissors, he said: 'I suspect Putois has been here'?"

"Ah!" said Monsieur Bergeret, "Putois had not a good reputation."

"Is that all?" asked Pauline.

"No, my daughter, it is not all. Putois was remarkable in this, that while we knew him and
were familiar with him, nevertheless--"

"--He did not exist," said Zoe.

Monsieur Bergeret looked at his sister with an air of reproach.

"What a speech, Zoe! and why break the charm like that? Do you dare say it, Zoe? Zoe, can you
prove it? To maintain that Putois did not exist, that Putois never was, have you sufficiently
considered the conditions of existence and the modes of being? Putois existed, my sister. But
it is true that his was a peculiar existence."

"I understand less and less," said Pauline, discouraged.

"The truth will be clear to you presently, my daughter. Know then that Putois was born fully
grown. I was still a child and your aunt was a little girl. We lived in a little house, in
a suburb of Saint-Omer. Our parents led a peaceful, retired life, until they were discovered
by an old lady named Madame Cornouiller, who lived at the manor of Montplaisir, twelve miles
from town, and proved to be a great-aunt of my mother's. By right of relationship she insisted
that our father and mother come to dine every Sunday at Montplaisir, where they were excessively
bored. She said that it was the proper thing to have a family dinner on Sunday and that only
people of common origin failed to observe this ancient custom. My father was bored to the point
of tears at Montplaisir. His desperation was painful to contemplate. But Madame Cornouiller
did not notice it. She saw nothing, My mother was braver. She suffered as much as my father,
and perhaps more, but she smiled."

"Women are made to suffer," said Zoe.

"Zoe, every living thing is destined to suffer. In vain our parents refused these fatal invitations.
Madame Cornouiller came to take them each Sunday afternoon. They had to go to Montplaisir;
it was an obligation from which there was absolutely no escape. It was an established order
that only a revolt could break. My father finally revolted and swore not to accept another
invitation from Madame Cornouiller, leaving it to my mother to find decent pretexts and varied
reasons for these refusals, for which she was the least capable. Our mother did not know how
to pretend."

"Say, Lucien, that she did not like to. She could tell a fib as well as any one."

"It is true that when she had good reasons she gave them rather than invent poor ones. Do you
recall, my sister, that one day she said at table: 'Fortunately, Zoe has the whooping-cough;
we shall not have to go to Montplaisir for some time'?"

"That was true!" said Zoe.

"You got over it, Zoe. And one day Madame Cornouiller said to my mother: Dearest, I count on
your coming with your husband to dine Sunday at Montplaisir.' Our mother, expressly bidden
by her husband to give Madame Cornouiller a good reason for declining, invented, in this extremity,
a reason that was not the truth. 'I am extremely sorry, dear Madame, but that will be impossible
for us. Sunday I expect the gardener.'

"On hearing this, Madame Cornouiller looked through the glass door of the salon at the little
wild garden, where the prickwood and the lilies looked as though they had never known the pruning-knife
and were likely never to know it. 'You expect the gardener! What for?'

"'To work in the garden.'

"And my mother, having involuntarily turned her eyes on this little square of weeds and plants
run wild, that she had called a garden, recognized with dismay the improbability of her excuse.

"'This man,' said Madame Cornouiller, 'could just as well work in your garden Monday or Tuesday.
Moreover, that will be much better.' One should not work on Sunday.'

"'He works all the week.'

"I have often noticed that the most absurd and ridiculous reasons are the least disputed: they
disconcert the adversary. Madame Cornouiller insisted, less than one might expect of a person
so little disposed to give up. Rising from her armchair, she asked:

"'What do you call your gardener, dearest?'

"'Putois,' answered my mother without hesitation.

"Putois was named. From that time he existed. Madame Cornouiller took herself off, murmuring:
'Putois! It seems to me that I know that name. Putois! Putois! I must know him. But I do not
recollect him. Where does he live?'

"'He works by the day. When one wants him one leaves word with this one or that one.'

"'Ah! I thought so, a loafer and a vagabond--a good-for-nothing. Don't trust him, dearest.'

"From that time Putois had a character.'"

II

Messieurs Goubin and Jean Marteau having arrived, Monsieur Bergeret put them in touch with
the conversation.

"We were speaking of him whom my mother caused to be born gardener at Saint-Omer and whom she
christened. He existed from that time on."

"Dear master, will you kindly repeat that?" said Monsieur Goubin, wiping the glass of his monocle.

"Willingly," replied Monsieur Bergeret. "There was no gardener. The gardener did not exist.
My mother said: 'I am waiting for the gardener.' At once the gardener was. He lived."

"Dear master," said Monsieur Goubin, "how could he live since he did not exist?"

"He had a sort of existence," replied Monsieur Bergeret.

"You mean an imaginary existence," Monsieur Goubin replied, disdainfully.

"Is it nothing then, but an imaginary existence?" exclaimed the master. "And have not mythical
beings the power to influence men! Consider mythology, Monsieur Goubin, and you will perceive
that they are not real beings but imaginary beings that exercise the most profound and lasting
influence on the mind. Everywhere and always, beings who have no more reality than Putois have
inspired nations with hatred and love, terror and hope, have advised crimes, received offerings,
made laws and customs. Monsieur Goubin, think of the eternal mythology. Putois is a mythical
personage, the most obscure, I grant you, and of the lowest order. The coarse satyr, who in
olden times sat at the table with our peasants in the North, was considered worthy of appearing
in a picture by Jordaens and a fable by La Fontaine. The hairy son of Sycorax appeared in the
noble world of Shakespeare. Putois, less fortunate, will be always neglected by artists and
poets. He lacks bigness and the unusual style and character. He was conceived by minds too
reasonable, among people who knew how to read and write, and who had not that delightful imagination
in which fables take root. I think, Messieurs, that I have said enough to show you the real
nature of Putois."

"I understand it," said Monsieur Goubin. And Monsieur Bergeret continued his discourse.

"Putois was. I can affirm it. He was. Consider it, gentlemen, and you will admit that a state
of being by no means implies substance, and means only the bonds attributed to the subject,
expresses only a relation."

"Undoubtedly," said Jean Marteau; "but a being without attributes is a being less than nothing.
I do not remember who at one time said, 'I am that I am.' Pardon my lapse of memory. One cannot
remember everything. But the unknown who spoke in that fashion was very imprudent. In letting
it be understood by this thoughtless observation that he was deprived of attributes and denied
all relations, he proclaimed that he did not exist and thoughtlessly suppressed himself. I
wager that no one has heard of him since."--"You have lost," answered Monsieur Bergeret.

"He corrected the bad effect of these egotistical expressions by employing quantities of adjectives,
and he is often spoken of, most often without judgment."--"I do not understand," said Monsieur
Goubin.--"It is not necessary to understand," replied Jean Marteau. And he begged Monsieur
Bergeret to speak of Putois.--"It is very kind of you to ask me," said the master.--"Putois
was born in the second half of the nineteenth century, at Saint-Omer. He would have been better
off if he had been born some centuries before in the forest of Arden or in the forest of Brocéliande.
He would then have been a remarkably clever evil spirit."--"A cup of tea, Monsieur Goubin,"
said Pauline.--"Was Putois, then, an evil spirit?" said Jean Marteau.--"He was evil," replied
Monsieur Bergeret; "he was, in a way, but not absolutely. It was true of him as with those
devils that are called wicked, but in whom one discovers good qualities when one associates
with them. And I am disposed to think that injustice has been done Putois. Madame Cornouiller,
who, warned against him, had at once suspected him of being a loafer, a drunkard, and a robber,
reflected that since my mother, who was not rich, employed him, it was because he was satisfied
with little, and asked herself if she would not do well to have him work instead of her gardener,
who had a better reputation, but expected more. The time had come for trimming the yews. She
thought that if Madame Eloi Bergeret, who was poor, did not pay Putois much, she herself, who
was rich, would give him still less, for it is customary for the rich to pay less than the
poor. And she already saw her yews trimmed in straight hedges, in balls and in pyramids, without
her having to pay much. 'I will keep an eye open,' she said, 'to see that Putois does not loaf
or rob me. I risk nothing, and it will be all profit. These vagabonds sometimes do better work
than honest laborers. She resolved to make a trial, and said to my mother: 'Dearest, send me
Putois. I will set him to work at Mont-plaisir.' My mother would have done so willingly. But
really it was impossible. Madame Cornouiller waited for Putois at Montplaisir, and waited in
vain. She followed up her ideas and did not abandon her plans. When she saw my mother again,
she complained of not having any news of Putois. 'Dearest, didn't you tell him that I was expecting
him?'--'Yes! but he is strange, odd.'--'Oh, I know that kind. I know your Putois by heart.
But there is no workman so crazy as to refuse to come to work at Montplaisir. My house is known,
I think. Putois must obey my orders, and quickly, dearest. It will be sufficient to tell me
where he lives; I will go and find him myself.' My mother answered that she did not know where
Putois lived, that no one knew his house, that he was without hearth or home. 'I have not seen
him again, Madame. I believe he is hiding.' What better could she say?"

Madame Cornouiller heard her distrustfully; she suspected her of misleading, of removing Putois
from inquiry, for fear of losing him or making him ask more. And she thought her too selfish.
"Many judgments accepted by the world that history has sanctioned are as well founded as that."--"That
is true," said Pauline.--"What is true?" asked Zoe, half asleep.--"That the judgments of history
are often false. I remember, papa, that you said one day: 'Madame Roland was very ingenuous
to appeal to the impartiality of posterity, and not perceive that, if her contemporaries were
ill-natured monkeys, their posterity would be also composed of ill-natured monkeys.'"--"Pauline,"
said Mademoiselle Zoe severely, "what connection is there between the story of Putois and this
that you are telling us?"--"A very great one, my aunt."--"I do not grasp it."--Monsieur Bergeret,
who was not opposed to digressions, answered his daughter: "If all injustices were finally
redressed in the world, one would never have imagined another for these adjustments. How do
you expect posterity to pass righteous judgment on the dead? How question them in the shades
to which they have taken flight? As soon as we are able to be just to them we forget them.
But can one ever be just? And what is justice? Madame Cornouiller, at least, was finally obliged
to recognize that my mother had not deceived her and that Putois was not to be found. However,
she did not give up trying to find him. She asked all her relatives, friends, neighbors, servants,
and tradesmen if they knew Putois, Only two or three answered that they had never heard of
him. My uncle was rather troublesome, as careful old people are apt to be--annoying us by perpetual
inquiries of what we gave for this and that, and running up provoking calculations on the
final cost of matters; and we began to wish that his visits might be as short as would be convenient.

But
when, on taking leave, he promised to send us a fine young cow of his own raising, our hearts
rather smote us for our impatience.

"'Tain't any of your new breeds, nephew," said the old man, "yet I can say that she's a gentle,
likely young crittur, and better worth forty dollars than many a
one that's cried up for Ayrshire or Durham; and you shall be quite
welcome to her."

We thanked him, as in duty bound, and thought that
if he was full of old-fashioned notions, he was no less full of kindness
and good will.
A man of fifty, thin, bent, the air of a vagabond, a dirty blouse.'--'It is true,'" said my
father, "'that this description could apply to Putois.'--'You see! Besides, I called him. I
cried: "Putois!" and he turned around.'--'That is the method,' said my father, 'that they employ
to assure themselves of the identity of evil-doers that they are hunting for.'--'I told you
that it was he! I know how to find him, your Putois. Very well! He has a bad face. You had
been very careless, you and your wife, to employ him. I understand physiognomy, and though
I only saw his back, I could swear that he is a robber, and perhaps an assassin. The rims of
his ears are flat, and that is a sign that never fails.'--'Ah! you noticed that the rims of
his ears were flat?'--'Nothing escapes me. My dear Monsieur Bergeret, if you do not wish to
be assassinated with your wife and your children, do not let Putois come into your house again.
Take my advice: have all your locks changed.'--Well, a few days afterward, it happened that
Madame Cornouiller had three melons stolen from her vegetable garden. The robber not having
been found, she suspected Putois. The gendarmes were called to Montplaisir, and their report
confirmed the suspicions of Madame Cornouiller. Bands of marauders were ravaging the gardens
of the countryside. But this time the robbery seemed to have been committed by one man, and
with singular dexterity. No trace of anything broken, no footprints in the damp earth. The
robber could be no one but Putois. That was the opinion of the corporal, who knew all about
Putois, and had tried hard to put his hand on that bird. The 'Journal of Saint-Omer' devoted
an article to the three melons of Madame Cornouiller, and published a portrait of Putois from
descriptions furnished by the town. No rims to the ears. The whole town was talking of Putois.
One day it was learned that he had been arrested and locked up in prison. But it was soon recognized
that the man that had been taken for him was an almanac seller named Rigobert. As no charge
could be brought against him, he was discharged after fourteen months of detention on suspicion.
And Putois remained undiscoverable. Madame Cornouiller was the victim of another robbery, more
audacious than the first. Three small silver spoons were taken from her sideboard. She recognized
in this the hand of Putois, had a chain put on the door of her bedroom, and was unable to sleep....

About ten o'clock in the evening, Pauline having gone to her room, Mademoiselle Bergeret said
to her brother: "Do not forget to relate how Putois betrayed Madame Cornouiller's cook."--"I
was thinking of it, my sister," answered Monsieur Bergeret. "To omit it would be to lose the
best of the story. But everything must be done in order. Putois was carefully searched for
by the police, who could not find him. When it was known that he could not be found, each one
considered it his duty to find him; the shrewd ones succeeded. And as there were many shrewd
ones at Saint-Omer and in the suburbs, Putois was seen simultaneously in the streets, in the
fields, and in the woods. Another trait was thus added to his character. He was accorded the
gift of ubiquity, the attribute of many popular heroes. A being capable of leaping long distances
in a moment, and suddenly showing himself at the place where he was least expected, was honestly
frightening. Putois was the terror of Saint-Omer. Madame Cornouiller, convinced that Putois
had stolen from her three melons and three little spoons, lived in a state of fear, barricaded
at Montplaisir. Bolts, bars, and locks did not reassure her. Putois was for her a frightfully
subtle being who could pass through doors. Trouble with her servants redoubled her fear. Her
cook having been betrayed, the time came when she could no longer hide her misfortune. But
she obstinately refused to name her betrayer."--"Her name was Gudule," said Mademoiselle Zoe.--"Her
name was Gudule, and she believed that she was protected from danger by a long, forked bead
that she wore on her chin. The sudden appearance of a beard protected the innocence of that
holy daughter of the king that Prague venerates. A beard, no longer youthful, did not suffice
to protect the virtue of Gudule. Madame Cornouiller urged Gudule to tell her the man. Gudule
burst into tears, but kept silent. Prayers and menaces had no effect. Madame Cornouiller made
a long and circumstantial inquiry. She adroitly questioned her neighbors and tradespeople,
the gardener, the street-sweeper, the gendarmes; nothing put her on the track of the culprit.
She tried again to obtain from Gudule a complete confession. 'In your own interest, Gudule,
tell me who it is.' Gudule remained mute. All at once a ray of light flashed through the mind
of Madame Cornouiller: 'It is Putois!' The cook cried, but did not answer. 'It is Putois! Why
did I not guess it sooner? It is Putois! Miserable! miserable! miserable!' and Madame Cornouiller
remained convinced that it was Putois. Everybody at Saint-Omer, from the judge to the lamplighter's
dog, knew Gudule and her basket At the news that Putois had betrayed Gudule, the town was filled
with surprise, wonder, and merriment....

With this reputation in the town and its environs he remained attached to our house by a thousand
subtle ties. He passed before our door, and it was believed that he sometimes climbed the wall
of our garden. He was never seen face to face. At any moment we would recognize his shadow,
his voice, his footsteps. More than once we thought we saw his back in the twilight, at the
corner of a road. To my sister and me he gradually changed in character. He remained mischievous
and malevolent, but he became childlike and very ingenuous. He became less real and, I dare
say, more poetical. Bed after bed appeared to view, all cleared and dressed out with such celerity
that I was quite ashamed of my own slowness, until, on examination, I discovered that he had,
with great impartiality, pulled up both weeds and vegetables.

     

It was not that imp that tangled the colts' tails at night in the stable. Less rustic and less
charming, but equally and frankly roguish, he made ink mustaches on my sister's dolls. In our
bed, before going to sleep, we listened; he cried on the roofs with the cats, he howled with
the dogs, he filled the mill hopper with groans, and imitated the songs of belated drunkards
in the streets. What made Putois ever-present and familiar to us, what interested us in him,
was that the remembrance of him was associated with all the objects about us. Zoe's dolls,
my school books, in which he had many times rumpled and besmeared the pages; the garden wall,
over which we had seen his red eyes gleam in the shadow; the blue porcelain jar that he cracked
one winter's night, unless it was the frost; the trees, the streets, the benches--everything
recalled Putois, the children's Putois, a local and mythical being. He did not equal in grace
and poetry the dullest satyr, the stoutest fawn of Sicily or Thessaly. But he was still a demigod.
He had quite a different character for our father; he was symbolical and philosophical. Our
father had great compassion for men. He did not think them altogether rational; their mistakes,
when they were not cruel, amused him and made him smile. The belief in Putois interested him
as an epitome and a summary of all human beliefs. As he was ironical and a joker, he spoke
of Putois as if he were a real being. He spoke with so much insistence sometimes, and detailed
the circumstances with such exactness, that my mother was quite surprised and said to him in
her open-hearted way: 'One would say that you spoke seriously, my friend: you know well, however...'
He replied gravely: 'All Saint-Omer believes in the existence of Putois. Would I be a good
citizen if I deny him? One should look twice before setting aside an article of common faith.'
Only a perfectly honest soul has such scruples. At heart my father was a Gassendiste.* He keyed
his own particular sentiment with the public sentiment, believing, like the countryside, in
the existence of Putois, but not admitting his direct responsibility for the theft of the melons
and the betrayal of the cook. Finally, he professed faith in the existence of a Putois, to
be a good citizen; and he eliminated Putois in his explanations of the events that took place
in the town. By doing so in this instance, as in all others, he was an honorable and a sensible
man.

     * A follower of Gassendi (d. 1655), an exponent of Epicurus.

"As for our mother, she reproached herself somewhat for the birth of Putois, and not without
reason. Because, after all, Putois was the child of our mother's invention, as Caliban was
the poet's invention. Without doubt the faults were not equal, and my mother was more innocent
than Shakespeare. However, she was frightened and confused to see her little falsehood grow
inordinately, and her slight imposture achieve such a prodigious success, that, without stopping,
extended all over town and threatened to extend over the world. One day she even turned pale,
believing that she would see her falsehood rise up before her. That day, a servant she had,
new to the house and the town, came to say to her that a man wished to see her. He wished to
speak to Madame. 'What man is it?'--'A man in a blouse. He looks like a laborer.'--'Did he
give his name?'--'Yes, Madame.'--'Well! what is his name?'--'Putois.'--'He told you that was
his name?'--'Putois, yes, Madame.'--'He is here?'--'Yes, Madame. He is waiting in the kitchen.'--'You
saw him?'--'Yes, Madame.'--'What does he want?'--'He did not say. He will only tell Madame.'--'Go
ask him.'

"When the servant returned to the kitchen Putois was gone. This meeting of the new servant
with Putois was never cleared up. But from that day I think my mother commenced to believe
that Putois might well exist and that she had not told a falsehood after all."

