"Annihilating all that's made To a green thought in a green shade."

But I could go on for ever chronicling his golden sayings or  telling of his innocent and living
piety.  I had meant to tell of  his cottage, with the German pipe hung reverently above the
fire,  and the shell box that he had made for his son, and of which he  would say pathetically:
"HE WAS REAL PLEASED WI' IT AT FIRST, BUT  I THINK HE'S GOT A KIND O' TIRED O' IT NOW" - the
son being then a  man of about forty.  But I will let all these pass.  "'Tis more  significant:
he's dead."  The earth, that he had digged so much in  his life, was dug out by another for
himself; and the flowers that  he had tended drew their life still from him, but in a new and
nearer way.  A bird flew about the open grave, as if it too wished  to honour the obsequies
of one who had so often quoted Scripture in  favour of its kind.  "Are not two sparrows sold
for one farthing,  and yet not one of them falleth to the ground."

Yes, he is dead.  But the kings did not rise in the place of death  to greet him "with taunting
proverbs" as they rose to greet the  haughty Babylonian; for in his life he was lowly, and
a peacemaker  and a servant of God.  But the streams of  Scotland are incomparable in themselves
- or I am only the more  Scottish to suppose so - and their sound and colour dwell for ever
in the memory.  How often and willingly do I not look again in  fancy on Tummel, or Manor,
or the talking Airdle, or Dee swirling  in its Lynn; on the bright burn of Kinnaird, or the
golden burn  that pours and sulks in the den behind Kingussie!  I think shame to  leave out
one of these enchantresses, but the list would grow too  long if I remembered all; only I may
not forget Allan Water, nor  birch-wetting Rogie, nor yet Almond; nor, for all its pollutions,
that Water of Leith of the many and well-named mills - Bell's  Mills, and Canon Mills, and
Silver Mills; nor Redford Burn of  pleasant memories; nor yet, for all its smallness, that
nameless  trickle that springs in the green bosom of Allermuir, and is fed  from Halkerside
with a perennial teacupful, and threads the moss  under the Shearer's Knowe, and makes one
pool there, overhung by a  rock, where I loved to sit and make bad verses, and is then  kidnapped
in its infancy by subterranean pipes for the service of  the sea-beholding city in the plain.
From many points in the moss  you may see at one glance its whole course and that of all its
tributaries; the geographer of this Lilliput may visit all its  corners without sitting down,
and not yet begin to be breathed;  Shearer's Knowe and Halkerside are but names of adjacent
cantons on  a single shoulder of a hill, as names are squandered (it would seem  to the in-expert,
in superfluity) upon these upland sheepwalks; a  bucket would receive the whole discharge of
the toy river; it would  take it an appreciable time to fill your morning bath; for the most
part, besides, it soaks unseen through the moss; and yet for the  sake of auld lang syne, and
the figure of a certain GENIUS LOCI, I  am condemned to linger awhile in fancy by its shores;
and if the  nymph (who cannot be above a span in stature) will but inspire my  pen, I would
gladly carry the reader along with me.

John Todd, when I knew him, was already "the oldest herd on the  Pentlands," and had been all
his days faithful to that curlew- scattering, sheep-collecting life.  He remembered the droving
days,  when the drove roads, that now lie green and solitary through the  heather, were thronged
thoroughfares.  He had himself often marched  flocks into England, sleeping on the hillsides
with his caravan;  and by his account it was a rough business not without danger.  The  drove
roads lay apart from habitation; the drovers met in the  wilderness, as to-day the deep-sea
fishers meet off the banks in  the solitude of the Atlantic; and in the one as in the other
case  rough habits and fist-law were the rule.  Crimes were committed,  sheep filched, and
drovers robbed and beaten; most of which  offences had a moorland burial and were never heard
of in the  courts of justice.  John, in those days, was at least once  attacked, - by two men
after his watch, - and at least once,  betrayed by his habitual anger, fell under the danger
of the law  and was clapped into some rustic prison-house, the doors of which  he burst in
the night and was no more heard of in that quarter.   When I knew him, his life had fallen
in quieter places, and he had  no cares beyond the dulness of his dogs and the inroads of 
pedestrians from town.  But for a man of his propensity to wrath  these were enough; he knew
neither rest nor peace, except by  snatches; in the gray of the summer morning, and already
from far  up the hill, he would wake the "toun" with the sound of his  shoutings; and in the
lambing time, his cries were not yet silenced  late at night.  This wrathful voice of a man
unseen might be said  to haunt that quarter of the Pentlands, an audible bogie; and no  doubt
it added to the fear in which men stood of John a touch of  something legendary.  For my own
part, he was at first my enemy,  and I, in my character of a rambling boy, his natural abhorrence.
It was long before I saw him near at hand, knowing him only by some  sudden blast of bellowing
from far above, bidding me "c'way oot  amang the sheep."  The quietest recesses of the hill
harboured this  ogre; I skulked in my favourite wilderness like a Cameronian of the  Killing
Time, and John Todd was my Claverhouse, and his dogs my  questing dragoons.  Little by little
we dropped into civilities;  his hail at sight of me began to have less of the ring of a war-
slogan; soon, we never met but he produced his snuff-box, which was  with him, like the calumet
with the Red Indian, a part of the  heraldry of peace; and at length, in the ripeness of time,
we grew  to be a pair of friends, and when I lived alone in these parts in  the winter, it
was a settled thing for John to "give me a cry" over  the garden wall as he set forth upon
his evening round, and for me  to overtake and bear him company.

That dread voice of his that shook the hills when he was angry,  fell in ordinary talk very
pleasantly upon the ear, with a kind of  honied, friendly whine, not far off singing, that
was eminently  Scottish.  He laughed not very often, and when he did, with a  sudden, loud
haw-haw, hearty but somehow joyless, like an echo from  a rock.  His face was permanently set
and coloured; ruddy and stiff  with weathering; more like a picture than a face; yet with a
certain strain and a threat of latent anger in the expression, like  that of a man trained
too fine and harassed with perpetual  vigilance.  He spoke in the richest dialect of Scotch
I ever heard;  the words in themselves were a pleasure and often a surprise to me,  so that
I often came back from one of our patrols with new  acquisitions; and this vocabulary he would
handle like a master,  stalking a little before me, "beard on shoulder," the plaid hanging
loosely about him, the yellow staff clapped under his arm, and  guiding me uphill by that devious,
tactical ascent which seems  peculiar to men of his trade.  I might count him with the best
talkers; only that talking Scotch and talking English seem  incomparable acts.  He touched
on nothing at least, but he adorned  it; when he narrated, the scene was before you; when he
spoke (as  he did mostly) of his own antique business, the thing took on a  colour of romance
and curiosity that was surprising.  The clans of  sheep with their particular territories on
the hill, and how, in  the yearly killings and purchases, each must be proportionally  thinned
and strengthened; the midnight busyness of animals, the  signs of the weather, the cares of
the snowy season, the exquisite  stupidity of sheep, the exquisite cunning of dogs: all these
he  could present so humanly, and with so much old experience and  living gusto, that weariness
was excluded. Under the pernicious doctrine of public policy and in fortifying that undefined and
indefinable legal notion of police power, courts have wiped aside Constitutional limitations,
and disregarded what the profession at least had learned to consider as almost fixed precedents
of the law, but even with all these defects admitted, there remains the startling truth that
to these governmental agencies we must look for the righting of our wrongs and the redress of our
grievances.  It used to fill me  with wonder how they could follow and retain so long a story.
But  John denied these creatures all intelligence; they were the  constant butt of his passion
and contempt; it was just possible to  work with the like of them, he said, - not more than
possible.  And  then he would expand upon the subject of the really good dogs that  he had
known, and the one really good dog that he had himself  possessed.  He had been offered forty
pounds for it; but a good  collie was worth more than that, more than anything, to a "herd;"
he did the herd's work for him.  "As for the like of them!" he  would cry, and scornfully indicate
the scouring tails of his  assistants.

Once - I translate John's Lallan, for I cannot do it justice, being  born BRITANNIS IN MONTIBUS,
indeed, but alas! INERUDITO SAECULO -  once, in the days of his good dog, he had bought some
sheep in  Edinburgh, and on the way out, the road being crowded, two were  lost.  This was
a reproach to John, and a slur upon the dog; and  both were alive to their misfortune.  Word
came, after some days,  that a farmer about Braid had found a pair of sheep; and thither  went
John and the dog to ask for restitution.  But the farmer was a  hard man and stood upon his
rights.  "How were they marked?" he  asked; and since John had bought right and left from many
sellers  and had no notion of the marks - "Very well," said the farmer,  "then it's only right
that I should keep them." - "Well," said  John, "it's a fact that I cannae tell the sheep;
but if my dog can,  will ye let me have them?"  The farmer was honest as well as hard,  and
besides I daresay he had little fear of the ordeal; so he had  all the sheep upon his farm
into one large park, and turned John's  dog into their midst.  That hairy man of business knew
his errand  well; he knew that John and he had bought two sheep and (to their  shame) lost
them about Boroughmuirhead; he knew besides (the lord  knows how, unless by listening) that
they were come to Braid for  their recovery; and without pause or blunder singled out, first
one  and then another, the two waifs.  It was that afternoon the forty  pounds were offered
and refused.  And the shepherd and his dog -  what do I say? the true shepherd and his man
- set off together by  Fairmilehead in jocund humour, and "smiled to ither" all the way  home,
with the two recovered ones before them.  So far, so good;  but intelligence may be abused.
The dog, as he is by little man's  inferior in mind, is only by little his superior in virtue;
and  John had another collie tale of quite a different complexion.  At  the foot of the moss
behind Kirk Yetton (Caer Ketton, wise men say)  there is a scrog of low wood and a pool with
a dam for washing  sheep.  John was one day lying under a bush in the scrog, when he  was aware
of a collie on the far hillside skulking down through the  deepest of the heather with obtrusive
stealth.  He knew the dog;  knew him for a clever, rising practitioner from quite a distant
farm; one whom perhaps he had coveted as he saw him masterfully  steering flocks to market.
But what did the practitioner so far  from home? and why this guilty and secret manoeuvring
towards the  pool? - for it was towards the pool that he was heading.  John lay  the closer
under his bush, and presently saw the dog come forth  upon the margin, look all about him to
see if he were anywhere  observed, plunge in and repeatedly wash himself over head and ears,
and then (but now openly and with tail in air) strike homeward over  the hills.  That same
night word was sent his master, and the  rising practitioner, shaken up from where he lay,
all innocence,  before the fire, was had out to a dykeside and promptly shot; for  alas! he
was that foulest of criminals under trust, a sheep-eater;  and it was from the maculation of
sheep's blood that he had come so  far to cleanse himself in the pool behind Kirk Yetton.

A trade that touches nature, one that lies at the foundations of  life, in which we have all
had ancestors employed, so that on a  hint of it ancestral memories revive, lends itself to
literary use,  vocal or written.

We have not so far to climb to come to shepherds; and it may be I  had one for an ascendant
who has largely moulded me.  But yet I  think I owe my taste for that hillside business rather
to the art  and interest of John Todd.  He it was that made it live for me, as  the artist
can make all things live.  It was through him the simple  strategy of massing sheep upon a
snowy evening, with its attendant  scampering of earnest, shaggy aides-de-champ, was an affair
that I  never wearied of seeing, and that I never weary of recalling to  mind: the shadow of
the night darkening on the hills, inscrutable  black blots of snow shower moving here and there
like night already  come, huddles of yellow sheep and dartings of black dogs upon the  snow,
a bitter air that took you by the throat, unearthly harpings  of the wind along the moors;
and for centre piece to all these  features and influences, John winding up the brae, keeping
his  captain's eye upon all sides, and breaking, ever and again, into a  spasm of bellowing
that seemed to make the evening bleaker.  It is  thus that I still see him in my mind's eye,
perched on a hump of  the declivity not far from Halkerside, his staff in airy flourish,  his
great voice taking hold upon the hills and echoing terror to  the lowlands; I, meanwhile, standing
somewhat back, until the fit  should be over, and, with a pinch of snuff, my friend relapse
into  his easy, even conversation.

CHAPTER VII. THE MANSE

I HAVE named, among many rivers that make music in my memory, that  dirty Water of Leith. 
Often and often I desire to look upon it  again; and the choice of a point of view is easy
to me.  It should  be at a certain water-door, embowered in shrubbery.  The river is  there
dammed back for the service of the flour-mill just below, so  that it lies deep and darkling,
and the sand slopes into brown  obscurity with a glint of gold; and it has but newly been recruited
by the borrowings of the snuff-mill just above, and these, tumbling  merrily in, shake the
pool to its black heart, fill it with drowsy  eddies, and set the curded froth of many other
mills solemnly  steering to and fro upon the surface.  Or so it was when I was  young; for
change, and the masons, and the pruning-knife, have been  busy; and if I could hope to repeat
a cherished experience, it must  be on many and impossible conditions.  I must choose, as well
as  the point of view, a certain moment in my growth, so that the scale  may be exaggerated,
and the trees on the steep opposite side may  seem to climb to heaven, and the sand by the
water-door, where I am  standing, seem as low as Styx.  And I must choose the season also,
so that the valley may be brimmed like a cup with sunshine and the  songs of birds; - and the
year of grace, so that when I turn to  leave the riverside I may find the old manse and its
inhabitants  unchanged.

It was a place in that time like no other: the garden cut into  provinces by a great hedge
of beech, and over-looked by the church  and the terrace of the churchyard, where the tombstones
were thick,  and after nightfall "spunkies" might be seen to dance at least by  children; flower-plots
lying warm in sunshine; laurels and the  great yew making elsewhere a pleasing horror of shade;
the smell of  water rising from all round, with an added tang of paper-mills; the  sound of
water everywhere, and the sound of mills - the wheel and  the dam singing their alternate strain;
the birds on every bush and  from every corner of the overhanging woods pealing out their notes
until the air throbbed with them; and in the midst of this, the  manse. Livingstone sacrificed himself
in the heart of Africa in order to give life and light to the aborigines of the Dark Continent. Our
Church of the future must take up the task so grandly undertaken by him, and cease not until
the work he so nobly began finds its full fruitage in Africa's redemption from heathendom,
superstition, and ignorance, that she may take her place among the civilized and enlightened people
of the world.

* * * * *

The Church of the future will have to do with the life
of its membership.  The dullest could see this was a house that  had a pair of hands in divers foreign
places: a well-beloved house  - its image fondly dwelt on by many travellers.

Here lived an ancestor of mine, who was a herd of men.  I read him,  judging with older criticism
the report of childish observation, as  a man of singular simplicity of nature; unemotional,
and hating the  display of what he felt; standing contented on the old ways; a  lover of his
life and innocent habits to the end.  We children  admired him: partly for his beautiful face
and silver hair, for  none more than children are concerned for beauty and, above all,  for
beauty in the old; partly for the solemn light in which we  beheld him once a week, the observed
of all observers, in the  pulpit.  But his strictness and distance, the effect, I now fancy,
of old age, slow blood, and settled habit, oppressed us with a kind  of terror.  When not abroad,
he sat much alone, writing sermons or  letters to his scattered family in a dark and cold room
with a  library of bloodless books - or so they seemed in those days,  although I have some
of them now on my own shelves and like well  enough to read them; and these lonely hours wrapped
him in the  greater gloom for our imaginations.  But the study had a redeeming  grace in many
Indian pictures, gaudily coloured and dear to young  eyes.  I cannot depict (for I have no
such passions now) the greed  with which I beheld them; and when I was once sent in to say
a  psalm to my grandfather, I went, quaking indeed with fear, but at  the same time glowing
with hope that, if I said it well, he might  reward me with an Indian picture.

"Thy foot He'll not let slide, nor will He slumber that thee keeps,"

it ran: a strange conglomerate of the unpronounceable, a sad model  to set in childhood before
one who was himself to be a versifier,  and a task in recitation that really merited reward.
And I must  suppose the old man thought so too, and was either touched or  amused by the performance;
for he took me in his arms with most  unwonted tenderness, and kissed me, and gave me a little
kindly  sermon for my psalm; so that, for that day, we were clerk and  parson.  I was struck
by this reception into so tender a surprise  that I forgot my disappointment.  And indeed the
hope was one of  those that childhood forges for a pastime, and with no design upon  reality.
Nothing was more unlikely than that my grandfather should  strip himself of one of those pictures,
love-gifts and reminders of  his absent sons; nothing more unlikely than that he should bestow
it upon me.  He had no idea of spoiling children, leaving all that  to my aunt; he had fared
hard himself, and blubbered under the rod  in the last century; and his ways were still Spartan
for the young.   The last word I heard upon his lips was in this Spartan key.  He  had over-walked
in the teeth of an east wind, and was now near the  end of his many days.  He sat by the dining-room
fire, with his  white hair, pale face and bloodshot eyes, a somewhat awful figure;  and my
aunt had given him a dose of our good old Scotch medicine,  Dr. Gregory's powder.  Now that
remedy, as the work of a near  kinsman of Rob Roy himself, may have a savour of romance for
the  imagination; but it comes uncouthly to the palate.  The old  gentleman had taken it with
a wry face; and that being  accomplished, sat with perfect simplicity, like a child's, munching
a "barley-sugar kiss."  But when my aunt, having the canister open  in her hands, proposed
to let me share in the sweets, he interfered  at once.  I had had no Gregory; then I should
have no barley-sugar  kiss: so he decided with a touch of irritation.  And just then the  phaeton
coming opportunely to the kitchen door - for such was our  unlordly fashion - I was taken for
the last time from the presence  of my grandfather.

Now I often wonder what I have inherited from this old minister.  I  must suppose, indeed,
that he was fond of preaching sermons, and so  am I, though I never heard it maintained that
either of us loved to  hear them.  He sought health in his youth in the Isle of Wight, and
I have sought it in both hemispheres; but whereas he found and kept  it, I am still on the
quest.  He was a great lover of Shakespeare,  whom he read aloud, I have been told, with taste;
well, I love my  Shakespeare also, and am persuaded I can read him well, though I  own I never
have been told so.  He made embroidery, designing his  own patterns; and in that kind of work
I never made anything but a  kettle-holder in Berlin wool, and an odd garter of knitting, which
was as black as the chimney before I had done with it.  He loved  port, and nuts, and porter;
and so do I, but they agreed better  with my grandfather, which seems to me a breach of contract.
He  had chalk-stones in his fingers; and these, in good time, I may  possibly inherit, but
I would much rather have inherited his noble  presence.  Try as I please, I cannot join myself
on with the  reverend doctor; and all the while, no doubt, and even as I write  the phrase,
he moves in my blood, and whispers words to me, and  sits efficient in the very knot and centre
of my being.  In his  garden, as I played there, I learned the love of mills - or had I  an
ancestor a miller? - and a kindness for the neighbourhood of  graves, as homely things not
without their poetry - or had I an  ancestor a sexton?  But what of the garden where he played
himself?  - for that, too, was a scene of my education.  Some part of me  played there in the
eighteenth century, and ran races under the  green avenue at Pilrig; some part of me trudged
up Leith Walk,  which was still a country place, and sat on the High School  benches, and was
thrashed, perhaps, by Dr. Adam.  The house where I  spent my youth was not yet thought upon;
but we made holiday  parties among the cornfields on its site, and ate strawberries and  cream
near by at a gardener's.  All this I had forgotten; only my  grandfather remembered and once
reminded me.  I have forgotten,  too, how we grew up, and took orders, and went to our first
Ayrshire parish, and fell in love with and married a daughter of  Burns's Dr. Smith - "Smith
opens out his cauld harangues."  I have  forgotten, but I was there all the same, and heard
stories of Burns  at first hand.

And there is a thing stranger than all that; for this HOMUNCULUS or  part-man of mine that
walked about the eighteenth century with Dr.  Balfour in his youth, was in the way of meeting
other HOMUNCULOS or  part-men, in the persons of my other ancestors. I believe that "Right, like
God is eternal and unchangeable; and since Right is Right and God
is God, Right must ultimately prevail; though its final triumph may
be retarded by the operation of wicked devices--nevertheless--it must
prevail."  But as I  went to college with Dr. Balfour,
I may have seen the lamp and oil  man taking down the shutters from his shop beside the Tron;
- we  may have had a rabbit-hutch or a bookshelf made for us by a certain  carpenter in I know
not what wynd of the old, smoky city; or, upon  some holiday excursion, we may have looked
into the windows of a  cottage in a flower-garden and seen a certain weaver plying his  shuttle.
And these were all kinsmen of mine upon the other side;  and from the eyes of the lamp and
oil man one-half of my unborn  father, and one-quarter of myself, looked out upon us as we
went by  to college.  Nothing of all this would cross the mind of the young  student, as he
posted up the Bridges with trim, stockinged legs, in  that city of cocked hats and good Scotch
still unadulterated.  It  would not cross his mind that he should have a daughter; and the
lamp and oil man, just then beginning, by a not unnatural  metastasis, to bloom into a lighthouse-engineer,
should have a  grandson; and that these two, in the fulness of time, should wed;  and some
portion of that student himself should survive yet a year  or two longer in the person of their
child.  Are you a  bank-clerk, and do you live at Peckham?  It was not always so.  And  though
to-day I am only a man of letters, either tradition errs or  I was present when there landed
at St. Andrews a French barber- surgeon, to tend the health and the beard of the great Cardinal
Beaton; I have shaken a spear in the Debateable Land and shouted  the slogan of the Elliots;
I was present when a skipper, plying  from Dundee, smuggled Jacobites to France after the '15;
I was in a  West India merchant's office, perhaps next door to Bailie Nicol  Jarvie's, and
managed the business of a plantation in St. Kitt's; I  was with my engineer-grandfather (the
son-in-law of the lamp and  oil man) when he sailed north about Scotland on the famous cruise
that gave us the PIRATE and the LORD OF THE ISLES; I was with him,  too, on the Bell Rock,
in the fog, when the SMEATON had drifted  from her moorings, and the Aberdeen men, pick in
hand, had seized  upon the only boats, and he must stoop and lap sea-water before his  tongue
could utter audible words; and once more with him when the  Bell Rock beacon took a "thrawe,"
and his workmen fled into the  tower, then nearly finished, and he sat unmoved reading in his
Bible - or affecting to read - till one after another slunk back  with confusion of countenance
to their engineer.  Yes, parts of me  have seen life, and met adventures, and sometimes met
them well.   And away in the still cloudier past, the threads that make me up  can be traced
by fancy into the bosoms of thousands and millions of  ascendants: Picts who rallied round
Macbeth and the old (and highly  preferable) system of descent by females, fleers from before
the  legions of Agricola, marchers in Pannonian morasses, star-gazers on  Chaldaean plateaus;
and, furthest of all, what face is this that  fancy can see peering through the disparted branches?
What sleeper  in green tree-tops, what muncher of nuts, concludes my pedigree?   Probably arboreal
in his habits. . . .

