But no heroine ever had yet Emily Warren's eyes; not identically only, which few can well deny;
but similarly also, which the many must be good enough to grant: and very few heroes, indeed,
ever saw their equal; though, if any hereabouts object, I will not be so cruel or unreasonable
as to hope they will admit it. At first, full of soft light, gentle and alluring, they brighten
up to blaze upon you lustrously, and fascinate the gazer's dazzled glance: there are depths
in them that tell of the unfathomable soul, heights in them that speak of the spirit's aspirations.
It is gentleness and purity, no less than sensibility and passion, that look forth in such
strange power from those windows of the mind: it is not the mere beautiful machine, fair form,
and pleasing colours, but the heaven-born light of tenderness and truth, streaming through
the lens, that takes the fond heart captive. Charles, for one, could not help looking long
and keenly into Emily Warren's eyes; they magnetized him, so that he might not turn away from
them: entranced him, that he would not break their charm, had he been able: and then the long
tufted eyelashes droop so softly over those blazing suns--that I do not in the least wonder
at Charles's impolite, perhaps, but still natural involuntary stare, and his mute abstracted
admiration: the poor youth is caught at once, a most willing captive--the moth has burnt its
wings, and flutters still happily around that pleasant warming radiance. "Charles the Second in
the Oak." This is also interesting to those who delight in folklore. According to the legend (for
no doubt the story was merely a legend), the deposed monarch was escaping from the Parliamentary
troops, when he had to seek shelter in the spreading branches of
the tree that still is emblematic of England.

The artist has placed the leafy refuge near a stream, where CHARLES seems to have been bathing.
A tragic side (not entirely free from quaintness) is given to the tale by the discovery of
the temporarily discarded wearing apparel of the STUART by the soldiers, who are hunting him
to the death. CHARLES, with his traditional good humour, is smiling at an accident which causes
him seemingly more amusement than apprehension.


It will save much trouble, and do away with no little useless mystery, to declare, at the outset,
which of these opposite twin-brothers our dark-eyed Emily preferred. She was only seventeen
in years; but an Indian sky had ripened her to full maturity, both of form and feelings: and
having never had any one whom she cared to think upon, and let her heart delight in, till Charles
looked first upon her beauty wonderingly, it is no marvel if she unconsciously reciprocated
his young heart's thought--before ever he had breathed it to himself. Julian's admiration she
entirely overlooked; she never thought him more than civil--barely that, perhaps--however he
might flatter himself: but her heart and eyes were full of his fair contrast, the light seen
brighter against darkness; Charles all the dearer for a Julian. Intensely did she love him,
as only tropic blood can love; intently did she gaze on him, when any while he could not see
her face, as only those dark eyes could gaze: and her mind, all too ignorant but greedy of
instruction, no less than her heart, rich in sympathies and covetous of love, went forth, and
fed deliciously on the intellectual brow, and delicate flushing cheek of her noble-minded Charles.
Not all in a day, nor a week, nor a month, did their loves thus ripen together. Emily was a
simple child of nature, who had every thing to learn; she scarcely knew her Maker's name, till
Charles instructed her in God's great love: the stars were to her only shining studs of gold,
and the world one mighty plain, and men and women soulless creatures of a day, and the wisdom
of creation unconsidered, and the book of natural knowledge close sealed up, till Charles set
out before his eager student the mysteries of earth and heaven. Oh, those blessed hours of
sweet teaching! when he led her quick delighted steps up the many avenues of science to the
central throne of God! Oh, those happy moments, never to return, when her eyes in gentle thankfulness
for some new truth laid open to them, flashed upon her youthful Mentor, love and intelligence,
and pleased admiring wonder! Sweet spring-tide of their loves, who scarcely knew they loved,
yet thought of nothing but each other; who walked hand in hand, as brother and sister, in the
flowery ways of mutual blessing, mutual dependence: alas, alas! how brief a space can love,
that guest from heaven, dwell on earth unsullied!

CHAPTER V.

JEALOUSY.

FOR Julian soon perceived that Charles was no despicable rival. At first, self-flattery, and
the habitual contempt wherewith he regarded his brother, blinded him to Emily's attachment:
moreover, in the scenes of gayety and the common social circle, she never gave him cause to
complain of undue preferences; readily she leant upon his arm, cheerfully accompanied him in
morning-visits, noon-day walks, and evening parties; and if pale Charles (in addition to the
more regular masters, dancing and music, and other pieces of accomplishment) thought proper
to bore her with his books for sundry hours every day, Julian found no fault with that;--the
girl was getting more a woman of the world, and all for him: she would like her play-time all
the better for such schoolings, and him to be the truant at her side.

But when, from ordinary civilities, the coarse loud lover proceeded to particular attentions;
when he affected to press her delicate hand, and ventured to look what he called love into
her eyes, and to breathe silly nothings in her ear--he could deceive himself no longer, notwithstanding
all his vanity; as legibly as looks could write it, he read disgust upon her face, and from
that day forth she shunned him with undisguised abhorrence. Poor innocent maid! she little
knew the man's black mind, who thus dared to reach up to the height of her affections; but
she saw enough of character in his swart scowling face, and loud assuming manners, to make
her dread his very presence, as a thunder-cloud across her summer sky. 

ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND asked Prince ARTHUR just now, à propos of new Clause moved by SEXTON.

Curious
man is MADDEN. Lives a sort of dual life. In House regarded as serious person, steeped in knowledge
of Irish Question in its multiform aspects. And he watched their stolen glances, how tremblingly
they met each other's gaze; and he would often-times roughly break in upon their studies, to
look on their confused disquietude with the pallid frowns of envy: he would insult poor Charles
before her, in hope to humble him in her esteem; but mild and Christian patience made her see
him as a martyr: he would even cast rude slights on her whom he professed to love, with the
view of raising his brother's chastened wrath, but was forced to quail and sneak away beneath
her quick indignant glance, ere her more philosophical lover had time to expostulate with the
cowardly savage.

Meanwhile, what were the parents about? The general had given out, indeed, that he had brought
Emily over for schooling; but he seemed so fond of her (in fact, she was the only thing to
prove he wore a heart), that he never could resolve upon sending her away from, what she now
might well call, home. Often, in some strange dialect of Hindostan, did they converse together,
of old times and distant shores; none but Emily might read him to sleep--none but Emily wake
him in the morning with a kiss--none but Emily dare approach him in his gouty torments--none
but Emily had any thing like intimate acquaintance with that moody iron-hearted man.

As to his sons, or the two young men he might presume to be his sons, he neither knew them,
nor cared to know. Bare civilities, as between man and man, constituted all which their intercourse
amounted to: what were those young fellows, stout or slim, to him? mere accidents of a soldier's
gallantries and of an ill-assorted marriage. He neither had, nor wished to have, any sympathies
with them: Julian might be as bad as he pleased, and Charles as good, for any thing the general
seemed to heed: they could not dive with him into the past, and the sports of Hindostan: they
reminded him, simply, of his wife, for pleasures of Memory; of the grave, for pleasures of
Hope: he was older when he looked at them: and they seemed to him only living witnesses of
his folly as lieutenant, in the choice of Mrs. Tracy. I will not take upon myself to say, that
he had any occasion to congratulate himself on the latter reminiscence.

So he quickly acquiesced in Julian's wish for a commission, and entirely approved of Charles's
college schemes. After next September, the funds should be forthcoming: not but that he was
rich enough, and to spare, any month in the year: but he would be vastly richer then, from
prize-money, or some such luck. It was more prudent to delay until September.

With reference to Emily--no, no--I could see at once that General Tracy never had any serious
intention to part with Emily; but she had all manner of masters at home, and soon made extraordinary
progress. As for the matter of his sons falling in love with her, attractive in all beauty
though she were, he never once had given it a thought: for, first, he was too much a man of
the world to believe in such ideal trash as love: and next, he totally forgot that his "boy,
or boys," had human feelings. So, when his wife one day gave him a gentle and triumphant hint
of the state of affairs, it came upon him overwhelmingly, like an avalanche: his yellow face
turned flake-white, he trembled as he stood, and really seemed to take so natural a probability
to heart as the most serious of evils.

"My son Julian in love with Emily! and if not he, at any rate Charles! What the devil, madam,
can you mean by this dreadful piece of intelligence?--It's impossible, ma'am; nonsense! it
can't be true; it shan't, ma'am."

And the general, having issued his military mandates, wrapped himself in secresy once more;
satisfied that both of those troublesome sons were to leave home after the next quarter, and
the prize-money at Hancock's.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CONFIDANTE.

BUT Mrs. Tracy had the best reason for believing her intelligence was true, and she could see
very little cause for regarding it as dreadful. True, one son would have been enough for this
wealthy Indian heiress--but still it was no harm to have two strings to her bow. Julian was
her favourite, and should have the girl if she could manage it; but if Emily Warren would not
hear of such a husband, why Charles Tracy may far better get her money than any body else.

That she possessed great wealth was evident: such jewellery, such Trinchinopoli chains, such
a blaze of diamonds en suite, such a multitude of armlets, and circlets, and ear-rings, and
other oriental finery, had never shone on Devonshire before: at the Eyemouth ball, men worshipped
her, radiant in beauty, and gorgeously apparelled. Moreover, money overflowed her purse, her
work-box, and her jewel-case: Charles's village school, and many other well-considered charities,
rejoiced in the streams of her munificence. The general had given her a banker's book of signed
blank checks, and she filled up sums at pleasure: such unbounded confidence had he in her own
prudence and her far-off father's liberality. The few hints her husband deigned to give, encouraged
Mrs. Tracy to conclude, that she would be a catch for either of her sons; and, as for the girl
herself, she had clearly been brought up to order about a multitude of servants, to command
the use of splendid equipages, and to spend money with unsparing hand.

Accordingly, one day when Julian was alone with his mother, their conversation ran as follows:

"Well, Julian dear, and what do you think of Emily Warren?"

"Think, mother? why--that she's deuced pretty, and dresses like an empress: but where did the
general pick her up, eh?--who is she?"

"Why, as to who she is--I know no more than you; she is Emily Warren: but as to the great question
of what she is, I know that she is rolling in riches, and would make one of my boys a very
good wife."

"Oh, as to wife, mother, one isn't going to be fool enough to marry for love now-a-days: things
are easier managed hereabouts, than that: but money makes it quite another thing. So, this
pretty minx is rich, is she?"

"A great heiress, I assure you, Julian."

"Bravo, bravo-o! but how to make the girl look sweet upon me, mother? There's that white-livered
fellow, Charles--"

"Never mind him, boy; do you suppose he would have the heart to make love to such a splendid
creature as Miss Warren: fy, Julian, for a faint heart: Charles is well enough as a Sabbath-school
teacher, but I hope he will not bear away the palm of a ladye-love from my fine high-spirited
Julian." Poor Mrs. Tracy was as flighty and romantic at forty-five as she had been at fifteen.

The fine high-spirited Julian answered not a word, but looked excessively cross; for he knew
full well that Charles's chance was to his in the ratio of a million to nothing.

"What, boy," went on the prudent mother, "still silent! I am afraid Emily's good looks have
been thrown away upon you, and that your heart has not found out how to love her." 

More than half Members on both sides away ill. The Whips severely hit; MARJORIBANKS here as usual,
making a bright space in the lobby with his genial presence and his smiling countenance. But AKERS-DOUGLAS
still away with most of his men, including the Mountainous HILL.

"Yes," his man is reported to have said, in reply to inquiries, "Lord ARTHUR is still HILL, but
gettin' better."
Only cheerful man on the premises is PLUNKET. Beaming with health;
glowing with vitality.

"The secret of it?" he said, when I asked
him how he managed to look so well. "Why, it's exercise and fumigation.
Whilst you fellows have been making holiday, I've stuck to the House
night and day. I've fumigated every chamber with sulphur; I've sprinkled
every wall with eucalyptozone.

True, Mrs. Tracy; you were always theatrically given, and played the coquette in youth; so
in age the character of go-between befits you still: dearly do you love to dabble in, what
you are pleased to call, "une affaire du coeur."

"Mother," after a pause, replied her hopeful progeny, "if the girl had been only pretty, I
shouldn't have asked any body's help; for marriage was never to my liking, and folks may have
their will of prouder beauties than this Emily, without going to church for it; but money makes
it quite another matter: and I may as well have the benefit of your assistance in this matter
o' money, eh mother? matrimony, you know: an heiress and a beauty may be worth the wedding-ring;
besides, when my commission comes, I can follow the good example that my parents set me, you
know; and, after a three months' honey-mooning, can turn bachelor again for twenty years or
so, as our governor-general did, and so leave wifey at home, till she becomes a Mrs. General
like you."

Now, strange to say, this heartless bit of villany was any thing but unpleasing to the foolish,
flattered heart of Mrs. Tracy; he was a chip of the old block, no better than his father: so
she thanked "dear Julian" for his confidence, with admiration and emotion; and looking upwards,
after the fashion of a Covent Garden martyr, blessed him.

CHAPTER VII.

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE, ETC.

"EMILY, my dear, take Julian's arm: here, Charles, come and change with me; I should like a
walk with you to Oxton, to see how your little scholars get on." So spake the intriguing mother.

"Why, that is just what I was going to do with Charles," said Emily, "and if Julian will excuse
me--"

"Oh, never mind me, Miss Warren, pray; come along with me, will you, mother?"

So they paired off in more well-matched couples (for Julian luckily took huff), and went their
different ways: with those went hatred, envy, worldly scheming, and that lowest sort of love
that ill deserves the name; with these remain all things pure, affectionate, benevolent.

"Charles, dear," (they were just like brother and sister, innocent and loving), "how kind it
is of you to take me with you; if you only knew how I dreaded Julian!"

"Why, Emmy? can he have offended you in any way?"

"Oh, Charles, he is so rude, and says such silly things, and--I am quite afraid to be alone
with him."

"What--what--what does he say to you, Emily?" hurriedly urged her half-avowed lover.

"Oh, don't ask me, Charles--pray drop the subject;" and, as she blushed, tears stood in her eyes.

Charles bit his lip and clenched his fist involuntarily; but an instant word of prayer drove
away the spirit of hatred, and set up love triumphant in its place.

"My Emily--oh, what have I said? may I--may I call you my Emily? dearest, dearest girl!" escaped
his lips, and he trembled at his own presumption. It was a presumptuous speech indeed; but
it burst from the well of his affections, and he could not help it.

Her answer was not in words, and yet his heart-strings thrilled beneath the melody; for her
eyes shed on him a blaze of love that made him almost faint before them. In an instant, they
understood, without a word, the happy truth, that each one loved the other.

"Precious, precious Emily!" They were now far away from Burleigh, in the fields; and he seized
her hand, and covered it with kisses.

What more they said I was not by to hear, and if I had been would not have divulged it. There
are holy secrets of affection, which those who can remember their first love--and first love
is the only love worth mentioning--may think of for themselves. "Haven't time to go to the theatre,"
said Prince ARTHUR. "Never perform out of Westminster, where we keep our own HEADACHE GABBLER
on the premises"; and he looked wearily across at SEXTON monotonously piping, not without dread
suspicion of the WINDBAG having been newly leathered.

But the end comes to the man who lives to wait, and to-night, at twenty
minutes past ten, LEWIS PELLY sitting bolt upright, awakened out of
peaceful slumber by a sudden cheer; knew that the Land Bill was at
last through Committee.

 Doubt was gone; they were
beloved; oh, richest treasure of joy! Fear was gone; they dared declare their love; oh, purest
river of all sublunary pleasures! No longer pale, anxious, thoughtful, worn by the corroding
care of "Does she--does she love?"--Charles was, from that moment, a buoyant, cheerful, exhilarated
being--a new character; he put on manliness, and fortitude, and somewhat of involuntary pride;
whilst Emily felt, that enriched by the affections of him whom she regarded as her wisest,
kindest earthly friend, by the acquisition of his love, who had led her heart to higher good
than this world at its best can give her, she was elevated and ennobled from the simple Indian
child, into the loved and honoured Christian woman. They went on that important walk to Oxton
feeble, divided, unsatisfied in heart: they returned as two united spirits, one in faith, one
in hope, one in love; both heavenly and earthly.

But the happy hour is past too soon; and, home again, they mixed once more with those conflicting
elements of hatred and contention.

"Emily," asked the general, in a very unusual stretch of curiosity, "where have you been to
with Charles Tracy? You look flushed, my dear; what's the matter?"

Of course "nothing" was the matter: and the general was answered wisely, for love was nothing
in his average estimate of men and women.

"Charles, what can have come to you? I never saw you look so happy in my life," was the mother's
troublesome inquiry; "why, our staid youth positively looks cheerful."

Charles's walk had refreshed him, taken away his head-ache, put him in spirits, and all manner
of glib reasons for rejoicing.

"You were right, Julian," whispered Mrs. Tracy, "and we'll soon put the stopper on all this
sort of thing."

So said or sung the flighty Mrs. Tracy. It was as simple and innocent a quotation as could
possibly be made; I suppose most couples, who ever heard the stanza, and have grown-up children,
have thought upon its dear domestic beauty: but it strangely affected the irascible old general.
He fumed and frowned, and looked the picture of horror; then, with a fierce oath at his wife
and sons, he firmly said--

"Woman, hold your fool's tongue: begone, and send Emily to me this minute: stop, Mr. Julian--no--run
up for your brother Charles, and come you all to me in the study. Instantly, sir! do as I bid
you, without a word."

Julian would gladly have fought it out with his imperative father; but, nevertheless, it was
a comfort to have to fetch pale Charles for a jobation; so he went at once. And the three young
people, two of them trembling with affections overstrained, and the third indurated in effrontery,
stood before that stern old man.

"Emily, child,"--and he added something in Hindostanee, "have I been kind to you--and do you
owe me any love?"

"Dear, dear sir, how can you ask me that?" said the warm-affectioned girl, falling on her knees
in tears.

"Get up, sweet child, and hear me: you see those boys; as you love me, and yourself, and happiness,
and honour--dare not to think of either, one moment, as your husband."

Emily fainted; Charles staggered to assist her, though he well-nigh swooned himself; and Julian
folded his arms with a resolute air, as waiting to hear what next.

But the general disappointed him: he had said his say: and, as volatile salts, a lady's maid,
and all that sort of rëinvigoration, seemed essential to Emily's recovery, he rang the bell
forthwith: so the pleasant family party broke up without another word.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MYSTERY.

OUR lovers would not have been praiseworthy, perhaps not human, had they not met in secret
once and again. The wily humpback is represented in his dressing-gown and slippers, having evidently
been called from his bath to listen to the suggestion of the courtiers, who desire him to
accept the regal dignity. The umbrella of the Lord Mayor, we fancy, is of a later date than the supposed
period of the painting, but no doubt the artist has authority for the introduction of the quaint
old lamp-post illumined with the electric light, which began to be
used some little time after the Battle of the Roses.

 All she could guess, she told
Charles, as he zealously cross-questioned her from time to time: and the result of his inquiries
would appear to be as follows:

Emily's earliest recollections were of great barbaric pomp; huge elephants richly caparisoned,
mighty fans of peacock's tails, lines of matchlock men, tribes of jewelled servants, a gilded
palace, with its gardens and fountains: plenty of rare gems to play with, and a splendid queenly
woman, whom she called by the Hindoo name for mother. The general, too, was there among her
first associations, as the gallant Captain Tracy, with his company of native troops.

Then an era happened in her life; a tearful leave-taking with that proud princess, who scarcely
would part with her for sorrow; but the captain swore it should be so: and an old Scotch-woman,
her nurse, she could remember, who told her as a child, but whether religiously or not she
could not tell, "Darling, come to me when you wish to know who made you;" and then Mrs. Mackie
went and spoke to the princess, and soothed her, that she let the child depart peacefully.
Most of her gorgeous jewellery dated from that earliest time of inexplicable oriental splendour.

After those infantine seven years, the captain took her with him to his station up the country,
where she lived she knew not how long, in a strong hill-fort, one Puttymuddyfudgepoor, where
there was a great deal of fighting, and besieging, and storming, and cannonading; but it ceased
at last, and the captain, who then soon successively became both major and colonel, always
kept her in his own quarters, making her his little pet; and, after the fighting was all over,
his brother-officers would take her out hunting in their howdahs, and she had plenty of palanquin-bearers,
sepoys, and servants at command; and, what was more, good nurse Mackie was her constant friend
and attendant.

Time wore on, and many little incidents of Indian life occurred, which varied every day indeed,
but still left nothing consequential behind them: there were tiger-hunts, and incursions of
Scindian tribes, and Pindarree chieftains taken captive, and wounded soldiers brought into
the hospital; and often had she and good nurse Mackie tended at the sick bed-side. And the
colonel had the jungle fever, and would not let her go from his sight; so she caught the fever
too, and through Heaven's mercy was recovered. And the colonel was fonder of her now than ever,
calling her his darling little child, and was proud to display her early budding beauty to
his military friends--pleasant sort of gentlemen, who gave her pretty presents.

Then she grew up into womanhood, and saw more than one fine uniform at her feet, but she did
not comprehend those kindnesses: and the general (he was general now) got into great passions
with them, and stormed, and swore, and drove them all away. Nurse Mackie grew to be old, and
sometimes asked her, "Can you keep a secret, child?--no, no, I dare not trust you yet: wait
a wee, wait a wee, my bonnie, bonnie bairn."

And now speedily came the end. The very clever arrangement of smoke in this painting prevents the
flesh-tints of the sailors from assuming a prominence that might be objectionable to persons
of fastidious tastes. No doubt the artist felt that, if he had studied the traditions of the British
Navy at the commencement of the nineteenth or twentieth century (the battle was fought in that
period), he would have shown the gallant tars serving the guns in a costume not more elaborate
than that assumed by the nude inhabitants of the North Pole. But nurse Mackie had hinted
she might have had "a better name and a truer;" and therefore, she herself had asked the general
what this hint might mean; and he was so angry that he discharged nurse Mackie at Madras, directly
he arrived there to take ship for England.

Then, just before embarking, poor nurse Mackie came to her secretly, and said, "Child, I will
trust you with a word; you are not what he thinks you." And she cried a great deal, and longed
to come to England; but the general would not hear of it; so he pensioned her off, and left
her at Madras, giving somebody strict orders not to let her follow him.

Nevertheless, just as they were getting into the boat to cross the surf, the affectionate old
soul ran out upon the strand, and called to her "Amy Stuart! Amy Stuart!" to the general's
great amazement as clearly as her own; and she held up a packet in her hand as they were pushing
off, and shouted after her, "Child--child! if you would have your rights, remember Jeanie Mackie!"

