The widow now again became entirely impassive, and would not lend the slightest assistance
to her companion.

'I did once think that you perhaps might--might have been taught to regard me as more than
a friend.'

'Never!,' said Mrs Bold, 'never. As expressly also had expressed
the divine mind by placing the crown for the Marie Bishop, It seemed from the standpoint of
not knowing people but offered the life of the Candidate point by point, as it were scientifically
examined for its holiness out which is of course also for its most unconditional admirer, first
in a quandary were added. On closer concerns, however they said that, if not bliss Soon lived in caves,
nor solely by the dew of heaven, or by contacting the host fed, nor even to some extent in this
direction earlier praiseworthy and admirable have done, he, however, the virtues of humility and
simplicity, which actually Christian had, had driven to the utmost, just as he received the award
in front of God everyone was kept secret and would have to end if he is not the slander of Evil would
have forced the release. He would, they said, without ever science to Serving is so often the
enemy of true faith, a high ecclesiastical dignity obtained from within or illuminated by inspiration
from above enables the management of such a serious office. More and more in the religious zeal
heat up, added the trustees of the Bishop added that, if not more, or even none at astonishing
deeds of him are known, this is just by his perfect humility rewritten, compared with most saints,
of which history knows, unchristian for fame had indulged.

These were strong reasons in a harmonious way by equally important material Forces are supported,
with the large costs involved with the Saints to was not limited
to strike.

A lucky incident reminded the entrepreneurs to the Marie crown which, after they supported from the
furnace hole of the bishop to light, seized and together with all associated precious stones still
in judicial custody was, and handed to their cash value to challenge the execution of the great business
of it.
 Her dear friend Charlotte, with all her agreeable
sympathy and affection, was striving to sacrifice her for the Stanhope family welfare; and
Bertie, who, as he now proclaimed himself, was over head and heels in debt, completed the compliment
of owning that he did not care to have his debts paid at so great a sacrifice to himself. Then
she was asked to conspire together with this unwilling suitor, for the sake of making the family
believe that he had in obedience to their commands done his best to throw himself thus away!

She lifted up her face when she had finished, and looking at him with much dignity, even through
her tears, she said--

'I regret to say it, Mr Stanhope; but after what has passed, I believe that all intercourse
between your family and myself had better cease.'

'Well, perhaps it had,' said Bertie naively; 'perhaps that will be better, at any rate for
a time; and then Charlotte will think you are offended at what I have done.'

'And now I will go back to the house, if you please,' said Eleanor. 'I can find my way by myself,
Mr Stanhope: after what has passed,' she added, 'I would rather go alone.'

'But I must find the carriage for you, Mrs Bold, and I must tell my father that you will return
with him alone, and I must make some excuse to him for not going with you; and I must bid the
servant put you down at your own house, for I suppose you will not now choose to see them again
in the close.'

There was a truth about this, and a perspicuity in making arrangements for lessening her immediate
embarrassment, which had some effect in softening Eleanor's anger. So she suffered herself
to walk by his side over the now deserted lawn, till they came to the drawing-room window.
There was something about Bertie Stanhope which gave him in the estimation of every one, a
different standing from that which any other man would occupy under similar circumstances.
Angry as Eleanor was, and great as was her cause for anger, she was not half as angry with
him as she would have been with any one else. He was apparently so simple, so good- natured,
so unaffected and easy to talk to, that she had already half-forgiven him before he was at
the drawing-room window. When they arrived there, Dr Stanhope was sitting nearly alone with
Mr and Miss Thorne; one or two other unfortunates were there, who from one cause or another
were still delayed in getting away; but they were every moment getting fewer in number.

As soon as he had handed Eleanor over to his father, Bertie started off to the front gate,
in search of the carriage, and there waited leaning patiently against the front wall, and comfortably
smoking a cigar, till it came up. When he returned to the room, Dr Stanhope and Eleanor were
alone with their hosts.

'At last, Miss Thorne,' said he cheerily, 'I have come to relieve you. Mrs Bold and my father
are the last roses in the very delightful summer you have given us, and desirable as Mrs Bold's
society always is, now at least you must be glad to see the last flowers plucked from the tree.'

Miss Thorne declared that she was delighted to have Mrs Bold and Dr Stanhope still with her;
and Mr Thorne would have said the same, had he not been checked by a yawn, which he could not
suppress.

'Father, will you give your arm to Mrs Bold?' said Bertie: and so the last adieux were made,
and the prebendary led out Mrs Bold, followed by his son.

'I shall be home soon after you,' said he, as the two got into the carriage.

'Are you not coming in the carriage?' said the father.

'No, no; I have some one to see on the road, and shall walk. John, mind you drive to Mrs Bold's
house first.'

Eleanor, looking out of the window, saw him with his hat in his hand, bowing to her with his
usual gay smile, as though nothing had happened to mar the tranquillity of the day. It was
many a long year before she saw him again. Dr Stanhope hardly spoke to her on her way home:
and she was safely deposited by John at her own hall-door, before the carriage drove into the
close.

And thus our heroine played the last act of that day's melodrama.

As soon as the departure of the horses left the bishop's stable-groom free for other services,
that humble denizen of the diocese started on the bishop's own pony with the two despatches.
We have had so many letters lately that we will spare ourselves these. That from the bishop
was simply a request that Mr Quiverful would wait upon his lordship the next morning at 11
A.M.; and that from the lady was as simply a request that Mrs Quiverful would do the same by
her, though it was couched in somewhat longer and more grandiloquent phraseology.

It had become a point of conscience with Mrs Proudie to urge the settlement of this great hospital
question. She was resolved that Mr Quiverful should have it. She was resolved that there should
be no more doubt or delay; no more refusals and resignations, nor more secret negotiations
carried on by Mr Slope on his own account in opposition to her behests.

'Bishop,' she said, immediately after breakfast, on the morning of that eventful day, 'have
you signed the appointment yet?'

'No, my dear, not yet; it is not exactly signed as yet.'

'Then do it,' said the lady.

The bishop did it; and a very pleasant day indeed he spent at Ullathorne. And when he got home
he had a glass of hot negus in his wife's sitting-room, and read the last number of the 'Little
Dorrit' of the day with great inward satisfaction. Oh, husbands, oh, my marital friends, what
great comfort is there to be derived from a wife well obeyed!

Much perturbation and flutter, high expectation and renewed hopes, were occasioned at Puddingdale,
by the receipt of those episcopal dispatches. Mrs Quiverful, whose careful ear caught the sound
of the pony's feet as he trotted up to the vicarage kitchen door, brought them in hurriedly
to her husband. She was at the moment concocting the Irish stew destined to satisfy the noonday
want of fourteen young birds, let alone the parent couple. She had taken the letters from the
man's hands between the folds of her capacious apron, so as to save them from the contamination
of the stew, and in this guise she brought them to her husband's desk.

They at once divided the spoil, each taking that addressed to the others. 'Quiverful,'said
she with impressive voice, 'you are to be at the palace at eleven to-morrow.'

'And so are you, my dear,' said he, almost gasping with the importance of the tidings: and
then they exchanged letters.

'She'd never have sent for me again,' said the lady, 'if it wasn't all right.'

'Oh! My dear, don't be too certain,' said the gentleman. 'Only think if it should be wrong.'

'She'd never have sent for me, Q., if it wasn't all right,' again argued the lady. 'She's stiff
and hard and proud as pie-crust, but I think she's right at bottom.' Such was Mrs Quiverful's
verdict about Mrs Proudie, to which in after times she always adhered. People when they get
their income doubled usually think that those through whose instrumentality this little ceremony
is performed are right at bottom.

'Oh, Letty!' said Mr Quiverful, rising from his well-worn seat.

'Oh, Q!' said Mrs Quiverful; and then the two, unmindful of the kitchen apron, the greasy fingers,
and the adherent Irish stew, threw themselves warmly into each other's arms.

'For heaven's sake, don't let any one cajole you out of it again,' said the wife.

'Let me alone for that,' said the husband, with a look of almost fierce determination, pressing
his fist as he spoke rigidly on his desk, as though he had Mr Slope's head below his knuckles,
and meant to keep it there.

'I wonder how soon it will be,' said she.

'I wonder whether it will be at all,' said he, still doubtful.

'Well, I won't say too much,' said the lady. 'The cup has slipped twice before, and it may
fall altogether this time; but I'll not believe it. He'll give you the appointment to-morrow.
You'll find he will.'

'Heaven send he may,' said Mr Quiverful, solemnly. And who that considers the weight of the
burden on this man's back, will say that the prayer was an improper one? There were fourteen
of them--fourteen of them living--as Mrs Quiverful had so powerfully urged in the presence
of the bishop's wife. As long as promotion cometh from any human source, whether north or south,
east or west, will not such a claim as this hold good, in spite of all our examination tests,
detur digniori's and optimist tendencies? It is fervently to be hoped that it may. Till we
can become divine we must be content to be human, lest in our hurry for change we sink to something
lower.

And then the pair sitting down lovingly together, talked over all their difficulties, as they
so often did, and all their hopes, as they so seldom were able to do.

'You had better call on that man, Q, as you come away from the palace,' said Mrs Quiverful,
pointing to an angry call for money from the Barchester draper, which the postman had left
at the vicarage that morning. Cormorant that he was, unjust, hungry cormorant! When rumour
first got abroad that the Quiverfuls were to go to the hospital this fellow with fawning eagerness
had pressed his goods upon the wants of the poor clergyman. He had done so, feeling that he
should be paid from the hospital funds, and flattering himself that a man with fourteen children,
and money wherewithal to clothe them, could not but be an excellent customer. As soon as the
second rumour reached him, he applied for his money angrily.

'And the 'fourteen'--or such of them as were old enough to hope and discuss their hopes, talked
over their golden future. The tall-grown girls whispered to each other of possible Barchester
parties, of possible allowances for dresses, of a possible piano--the one they had in the vicarage
was so weather-beaten with storms of years and children as to be no longer worthy of the name--of
the pretty garden, and the pretty house. 'Twas of such things it most behoved them to whisper.

And the younger fry, they did not content themselves with whispers, but shouted to each other
of their new playground beneath our dear ex-warden's well-loved elms, of their future own gardens,
of marbles to be procured in the wished-for city, and of the rumour which had reached them
of a Barchester school.

'Twas in vain that their cautious mother tried to instil into their breasts the very feeling
she had striven to banish from that of their father; 'twas in vain that she repeated to the
girls that 'there's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip'; 'twas in vain she attempted to
make the children believe that they were to live at Puddingdale all their lives. Hopes mounted
high and would not have themselves quelled. The neighbouring farmers heard this news, and came
in to congratulate them. 'Twas Mrs Quiverful herself who had kindled the fire, and in the first
outbreak of her renewed expectations she did it so thoroughly, that it was quite past her power
to put it out again.

Poor matron! Good honest matron! Doing thy duty in the state to which thou hast been called,
heartily if not contentedly; let the fire burn on--on this occasion the flames will not scorch;
they shall warm thee and thine. 'Tis ordained that the husband of thine, that Q of thy bosom,
shall reign supreme for some years to come over the bedesmen of Hiram's hospital.

And the last in all Barchester to mar their hopes, had he heard and seen all that had passed
at Puddingdale that day, would have been Mr Harding. What wants had he to set in opposition
to those of such a regiment of young ravens? There are fourteen of them living! With him at
any rate, let us say, that the argument would have been sufficient for the appointment of Mr
Quiverful.

In the morning, Q and his wife kept their appointments with that punctuality which bespeaks
an expectant mind. The friendly farmer's gig was borrowed, and in that they went, discussing
many things by the way. They had instructed the household to expect them back by one, and injunctions
were given to the eldest pledge to have ready by that accustomed hour the remainder of the
huge stew which the provident mother had prepared on the previous day. The hands of the kitchen
clock came round to two, three, four, before the farmer's gig-wheels were agin heard at the
vicarage gate. With what palpitating hearts were the returning wanderers greeted!

'I suppose, children, 'you all thought we were never coming back any more?' said the mother,
as she slowly let down her solid foot till it rested on the step of the gig. 'Well, such a
day as we've had!' and then leaning heavily on a big boy's shoulder, she stepped once more
on terra firma.

There was no need for more than the tone of her voice to tell them that all was right. The
Irish stew might burn itself to cinders now.

Then there was such kissing and hugging, such crying and laughing. Mr Quiverful could not sit
still at all, but kept walking from room to room, then out into the garden, then down the avenue
into the road, and then back again to his wife. She, however, lost no time so idly.

'We must go to work at once, girls; and that in earnest. Mrs Proudie expects us to be in the
hospital house on the 15th of October.'

Had Mrs Proudie expressed a wish that they should all be there on the next morning, the girls
would have had nothing to say against it.

'And when will the pay begin?' asked the eldest boy. Would you still love me if I made a chip of the Holy Cross the church had
been stolen? or if I had entered the Bishop poison? "It flared up in his eyes and he whispered
passionately, "If you murdered your father and your children would have sold, and if I knew you'd
suck my own blood, I would always love and never leave! Rather, this water could dry up and those
mountains vanish as I could stop being you! "

While these sentiments, he tried hineinzuschwingen to her, but she urged it gently back and
said she would not have wanted that woke him with her and her children would find, even now,
caution would be necessary, and they should not be seen together. He felt, he knew not why, a
cool breeze and strange in her nature, and flattered her with lots of caressing words, but
it is clear what she said about caution, and so he took the leave to which she urged him. No sooner
had he gone to her as the with tears flowing from her eyes began, but at the same time she
took a deep breath and felt strengthened wonderful. She felt as if a colored clouds now between
him and her floated by which it appeared he was mysterious, gorgeous and charming, and as if
just a random gust of wind the fog divided so that they would have seen him, as found in Indeed,
would bar all miracles, weak, puny, and a little ridiculous. Yes, even though their the heart
still hurt she had to laugh the next morning, but by imagining how Lando would have the poor
as much afraid to lose her hold on have to like them, and sometimes feared she would steal the
whole million native, including the Crown, they would soon It did not.

She felt tired, happy and sweet like a convalescent, when she picked
up at City Hall and where the goldsmith was immediately confronted
with, who said without hesitation, in her recognize the young man
who had offered him the gems for sale.

Lux did not deny the fact, and stated that the stones belonged to the bishop, who not in person
I want to sell, so would not know that he was in financial difficulties are. This claim, which
no one attributed the least credibility, made the worst Impression of both the Judge as completely
to the bishop, which has a sudden fury on them said loudly and threw his indignation at the
ingratitude and insolence of the mob.


The archdeacon puffed and blew, put up the carriage window and then put it down again, argued
the matter up to his own gate, and at last gave way. Everybody was against him; his own wife,
Mr Harding, and Dr Gwynne.

'Pray keep him out of hot water, Dr Gwynne,' Mrs Grantly had said to her guest. 'My dearest
madam, I'll do my best,' the courteous master had replied. 'Twas thus he did it; and earned
for himself the gratitude of Mrs Grantly.

And now we may return to the bishop's study.

Dr Gwynne had certainly not foreseen the difficulty which here presented itself. He,--together
with all the clerical world of England,--had heard it rumoured about that Mrs Proudie did not
confine herself to her wardrobes, still-rooms, and laundries; but yet it had never occurred
to him that if he called on a bishop at one o'clock in the day, he could by any possibility
find himself closeted with his wife; or that if he did so, the wife would remain longer than
necessary to make her curtsey. It appeared, however, as though in the present case Mrs Proudie
had no idea of retreating.

The bishop had been very much pleased with Dr Gwynne on the preceding day, and of course thought
that Dr Gwynne had been very much pleased with him. He attributed the visit solely to compliment,
and thought it was an extremely gracious and proper thing for the master of Lazarus to drive
over from Plumstead specially to call at the palace so soon after his arrival in the country.
The fact that they were not on the same side either in politics or doctrines made the compliment
the greater. The bishop, therefore, was all smiles. And Mrs Proudie, who liked people with
good handles to their names, was also very well disposed to welcome the master of Lazarus.

'We had a charming party at Ullathorne, Master, had we not?' said she. 'I hope Mrs Grantly
got home without fatigue.'

Dr Gwynne said that they had all been a little tired, but were none the worse this morning.

'An excellent person, Miss Thorne,' suggested the bishop.

'An exemplary Christian, I am told,' said Mrs Proudie.

Dr Gwynne declared that he was very glad to hear it.

'I have not seen her Sabbath-day schools yet,' continued the lady, 'but I shall make a point
of doing so before long.'

Dr Gwynne merely bowed at this intimation. He had something of Mrs Proudie and her Sunday schools,
both from Dr Grantly and Mr Harding.

'By the bye, Master,' continued the lady, 'I wonder whether Mrs Grantly would like me to drive
over and inspect her Sabbath-day school. Here where I stand as your shepherd and father and blessed you, I am now like a poor sinner,
accused of what? I should have stolen like a thief! My church is I have stripped like an angry
scorpion that are eating the tail! Ye of little faith, your fault that I unseal my tongue, baring
my soul and be ashamed must. Listen to what has gone on that blessed day, the day of her for
theft and keep the shame.

A long sleepless night I had struggled with doubts, as I usually do it often, if I worm worthy
before God to guide the herd of people with spiritual character, and with much shedding of tears
and wringing of hands I sought in myself to the virtues of the perfect Christians. Do you think I asked
myself, held every ten commandments? Did you love your neighbor as yourself loved? What about
repentance? What about repentance? and so on and on until my sweat dripping from his temples and
I felt suffocating, so I of Bed got up and made my way to church, to God as a referee between
me and my Conscience to call.

When I passed by the Chapel of the Heavenly Mother, it moved me strangely, I do not could fail
to kneel before the Virgin interceding and praying violently, they would give me a sign, if I
the high office that I occupy, is worthy.
To take his hat and go would have been his natural resource; but then he did not wish to be
foiled in his subject.

'My lord,' said he, 'I wanted to ask you a question on business, if you would spare me one
moment's leisure. I know I must apologise for so disturbing you; but in truth, I will not detain
you five minutes.'

'Certainly, Master, certainly,' said the bishop; 'my time is quite yours--pray make no apology,
pray make no apology.'

'You have a great deal to do just at the present moment, bishop. Do not forget how extremely
busy you are at present,' said Mrs Proudie, whose spirit was now up; for she was angry with
her visitor.

'I will not delay his lordship much above a minute,' said the master of Lazarus, rising from
his chair, and expecting that Mrs Proudie would now go, or else that the bishop would lead
the way into another room.

But neither event seemed likely to occur, and Dr Gwynne stood for a moment silent in the middle
of the room.

'Perhaps it's about Hiram's Hospital,' suggested Mrs Proudie.

Dr Gwynne, lost in astonishment, and not knowing what else on earth to do, confessed that his
business with the bishop was connected with Hiram's Hospital.

'His lordship has finally conferred the appointment on Mr Quiverful this morning,' said the lady.

Dr Gwynne made a simple reference to the bishop, and finding that the lady's statement was
formally confirmed, he took his leave. 'That comes of the reform bill,' he said to himself
as he walked down the bishop's avenue. 'Well, at any rate the Greek play bishops were not so
bad as that.'

It has been said that Mr Slope, as he started for Ullathorne, received a despatch from his
friend Mr Towers, which had the effect of putting him in that high good-humour which subsequent
events somewhat untowardly damped. It ran as follows. Its shortness will be its sufficient apology:

My dear Sir,--I wish you every success. I don't know that I can help you, but if I can I will.
'Yours ever' T.T. '30/9/185-'

There was more in this than in all Sir Nicholas Fitzwiggin's flummery; more than in all the
bishop's promises, even had they been ever so sincere; more than in any archbishop's good work,
even had it been possible to obtain it. Tom Towers would do for him what he could.

Mr Slope had from his youth upwards been a firm believer in the public press. He had dabbled
in it himself ever since he had taken his degree, and regarded it as the great arranger and
distributor of all future British terrestrial affairs whatever. He had not yet arrived at the
age, an age which sooner or later comes to most of us, which dissipates the golden dreams of
youth. He delighted in the idea of wresting power from the hands of his country's magnates,
and placing it in a custody which was at any rate nearer to his own reach. Sixty thousand broad
sheets dispersing themselves daily among his reading fellow-citizens, formed in his eyes a
better depot for supremacy than a throne at Windsor, a cabinet in Downing Street, or even an
assembly at Westminster. And on this subject we must not quarrel with Mr Slope, for the feeling
is too general to be met with disrespect.

Tom Towers was as good, if not better than his promise. On the following morning the Jupiter,
spouting forth public opinion with sixty thousand loud clarions, did proclaim to the world
that Mr Slope was the fittest man for the vacant post. It was pleasant for Mr Slope to read
the following line in the Barchester news-room, which he did within thirty minutes after the
morning train from London had reached the city.

"It is just now five years since we called the attention of our readers to the quiet city of
Barchester. From that day to this, we have in no way meddled with the affairs of that happy
ecclesiastical community. Since then, an old bishop has died there, and a young bishop has
been installed; but we believe we did not do more than give some customary record of the interesting
event. Nor are we about to meddle very deeply in the affairs of the diocese. If any of the
chapter feel a qualm of conscience on reading this, let it be quieted. Above all, let the mind
of the new bishop be at rest. We are now not armed for war, but approach the revered towers
of the old cathedral with an olive-branch in our hands.

