
   Most friendly welcome, he me did afford,
   I was so entertained at bed and board,
   Which as I dare not brag how much it was,
   I dare not be ingrate and let it pass,
   But with thanks many I remember it,
   (Instead of his good deeds) in words and writ,
   He used me like his son, more than a friend,
   And he on Monday his commends did send
   To Newhall, where a gentleman did dwell,
   Who by his name is hight Sacheverell.
   The Tuesday July's one and twentieth day,
   I to the city Lichfield took my way,
   At Sutton Coldfield with some friends I met,
   And much ado I had from thence to get,
   There I was almost put unto my trumps,
   My horse's shoes were worn as thin as pumps;
   But noble Vulcan, a mad smuggy smith,
   All reparations me did furnish with.
   The shoes were well removed, my palfrey shod,
   And he referred the payment unto God.
   I found a friend, when I to Lichfield came,
   A joiner, and John Piddock is his name.
   He made me welcome, for he knew my jaunt,
   And he did furnish me with good provant:
   He offered me some money, I refused it,
   And so I took my leave, with thanks excused it,
   That Wednesday, I a weary way did pass,
   Rain, wind, stones, dirt, and dabbling dewy grass,
   With here and there a pelting scattered village,
   Which yielded me no charity, or pillage:
   For all the day, nor yet the night that followed.
   One drop of drink I'm sure my gullet swallowed.
   At night I came to a stony town called Stone.
   Where I knew none, nor was I known of none:
   I therefore through the streets held on my pace,
   Some two miles farther to some resting place:
   At last I spied a meadow newly mowed,
   The hay was rotten, the ground half o'erflowed:
   We made a breach, and entered horse and man,
   There our pavilion, we to pitch began,
   Which we erected with green broom and hay,
   To expel the cold, and keep the rain away;
   The sky all muffled in a cloud 'gan lower,
   And presently there fell a mighty shower,
   Which without intermission down did pour,
   From ten a night, until the morning's four.
   We all that time close in our couch did lie,
   Which being well compacted kept us dry.
   The worst was, we did neither sup nor sleep,
   And so a temperate diet we did keep.
   The morning all enrobed in drifting fogs,
   We being as ready as we had been dogs:
   We need not stand upon long ready making,
   But gaping, stretching, and our ears well shaking:
   And for I found my host and hostess kind,
   I like a true man left my sheets behind.
   That Thursday morn, my weary course I framed,
   Unto a town that is Newcastle named. But
   cases of simultaneous and similar modifications
   abound on all sides. Even as regards
   our own species there is a very generally admitted
   opinion that a new type has been developed in the
     United States, and this in about a couple of
     centuries only, and in a vast multitude of individuals of {89} diverse
ancestry.

The instances here given, however, must suffice, though more could easily be added.

It may be well now to turn to groups presenting similar variations, not through, but independently
of, geographical distribution, and, as far as we know, independently of conditions other than
some peculiar nature and tendency (as yet unexplained) common to members of such groups, which
nature and tendency seem to induce them to vary in certain definite lines or directions which
are different in different groups.

Again, Mr. Wallace[71] tells us of no less than four kinds of orioles, which birds mimic, more
or less, four species of a genus of honey-suckers, the weak orioles finding their profit in
being mistaken by certain birds of prey for the strong, active, and gregarious honey-suckers. Now,
many other birds would be benefited by similar mimicry, which is none the less confined, in
this part of the world, to the oriole genus. It is true that the absence of mimicry in other
forms may be explained by their possessing some other (as yet unobserved) means of preservation.
But it is nevertheless remarkable, not so much that one species should mimic, as that no less
than four should do so in different ways and degrees, all these{91}
four belonging to one and the same genus.

   
   
   In other cases, however, there is not even the help
   of protective action to account for the phenomenon. Thus we have
the wonderful birds of Paradise,[72] which agree in developing plumage
unequalled in beauty, but a beauty which, as to details, is of different
kinds, and produced in different ways in different species. To develop
"beauty and singularity of plumage" is a character of the group, but
not of any one definite kind, to be explained merely by inheritance.
   We had great store of fowl (but 'twas foul way)
   And kindly every step entreats me stay,
   The clammy clay sometimes my heels would trip,
   One foot went forward, the other back would slip,
   This weary day, when I had almost past,
   I came unto Sir Urian Leigh's at last,
   At Adlington, near Macclesfield he doth dwell,
   Beloved, respected, and reputed well.
   Through his great love, my stay with him was fixed,
   From Thursday night, till noon on Monday next,
   At his own table I did daily eat,
   Whereat may be supposed, did want no meat,
   He would have given me gold or silver either,
   But I, with many thanks, received neither,
   And thus much without flattery I dare swear,
   He is a knight beloved far and near,
   First he's beloved of his God above,
   (Which love he loves to keep, beyond all love)
   Next with a wife and children he is blest,
   Each having God's fear planted in their breast.
   With fair demaines, revenue of good lands,
   He's fairly blessed by the Almighty's hands,
   And as he's happy in these outward things,
   So from his inward mind continual springs
   Fruits of devotion, deeds of piety,
   Good hospitable works of charity,
   Just in his actions, constant in his word,
   And one that won his honour with the sword,
   He's no carranto, cap'ring, carpet knight,
   But he knows when, and how to speak or fight,
   I cannot flatter him, say what I can,
   He's every way a complete gentleman.
   I write not this, for what he did to me,
   But what mine ears, and eyes did hear and see,
   Nor do I pen this to enlarge his fame
   But to make others imitate the same,
   For like a trumpet were I pleased to blow,
   I would his worthy worth more amply show,
   But I already fear have been too bold,
   And crave his pardon, me excused to hold.
   Thanks to his sons and servants every one,
   Both males and females all, excepting none.
   To bear a letter he did me require,
   Near Manchester, unto a good Esquire:
   His kinsman Edmund Prestwitch, he ordained,
   That I was at Manchester entertained
   Two nights, and one day, ere we thence could pass,
   For men and horse, roast, boiled, and oats, and grass;
   This gentleman not only gave harbour,
   But in the morning sent me to his barber,
   Who laved, and shaved me, still I spared my purse,
   Yet sure he left me many a hair the worse.
   But in conclusion, when his work was ended,
   His glass informed, my face was much amended.
   And for the kindness he to me did show,
   God grant his customers beards faster grow,
   That though the time of year be dear or cheap,
   From fruitful faces he may mow and reap.
   Then came a smith, with shoes, and tooth and nail,
   He searched my horse's hoofs, mending what did fail,
   Yet this I note, my nag, through stones and dirt,
   Did shift shoes twice, ere I did shift one shirt:
   Can these kind things be in oblivion hid?
   No, Master Prestwitch, this and much more did,
   His friendship did command and freely gave
   All before writ, and more than I durst crave.
   But leaving him a little, I must tell,
   How men of Manchester did use me well,
   Their loves they on the tenter-hooks did rack,
   Roast, boiled, baked, too--too--much, white, claret, sack,
   Nothing they thought too heavy or too hot,
   Can followed can, and pot succeeded pot,
   That what they could do, all they thought too little,
   Striving in love the traveller to whittle.
   We went into the house of one John Pinners,
   (A man that lives amongst a crew of sinners)
   And there eight several sorts of ale we had,
   All able to make one stark drunk or mad.
   But I with courage bravely flinched not,
   And gave the town leave to discharge the shot. Mr.
   Herbert Spencer, indeed, in his very interesting
   "First Principles of Biology," has given
   forth ideas on this subject, which are well
   worthy careful perusal and consideration, and
   some of which apply also to the other
   kinds of homology mentioned above.
   But to conclude this drinking aley-tale,
   We had a sort of ale, called scurvy ale.
   Thus all these men, at their own charge and cost,
   Did strive whose love should be expressed most,
   And farther to declare their boundless loves,
   They saw I wanted, and they gave me gloves,
   In deed, and very deed, their loves were such,
   That in their praise I cannot write too much;
   They merit more than I have here compiled,
   I lodged at the Eagle and the Child,
   Whereas my hostess, (a good ancient woman)
   Did entertain me with respect, not common. Yet
   it is not at all so, and this fact seems to amount
   almost to an experimental demonstration that
   the hypothesis of pangenesis is an insufficient explanation
   of individual evolution.
   
   Two exceedingly good criticisms of Mr. Darwin's hypothesis have appeared.

   But when to mind these kindnesses I call,
   Kind Master Prestwitch author is of all,
   And yet Sir Urian Leigh's good commendation,
   Was the main ground of this my recreation.
   From both of them, there what I had, I had,
   Or else my entertainment had been bad.
   O all you worthy men of Manchester,
   (True bred bloods of the County Lancaster)
   When I forget what you to me have done,
   Then let me headlong to confusion run.
   To noble Master Prestwitch I must give
   Thanks, upon thanks, as long as I do live,
   His love was such, I ne'er can pay the score,
   He far surpassed all that went before,
   A horse and man he sent, with boundless bounty,
   To bring me quite through Lancaster's large county,
   Which I well know is fifty miles at large,
   And he defrayed all the cost and charge.
   This unlooked pleasure, was to me such pleasure,
   That I can ne'er express my thanks with measure.
   So Mistress Saracoal, hostess kind,
   And Manchester with thanks I left behind.
   The Wednesday being July's twenty nine,
   My journey I to Preston did confine,
   All the day long it rained but one shower,
   Which from the morning to the evening did pour,
   And I, before to Preston I could get,
   Was soused, and pickled both with rain and sweat,
   But there I was supplied with fire and food,
   And anything I wanted sweet and good.
   There, at the Hind, kind Master Hind mine host,
   Kept a good table, baked and boiled, and roast,
   There Wednesday, Thursday, Friday I did stay,
   And hardly got from thence on Saturday.
   Unto my lodging often did repair,
   Kind Master Thomas Banister, the Mayor,
   Who is of worship, and of good respect,
   And in his charge discreet and circumspect.
   For I protest to God I never saw,
   A town more wisely governed by the law.
   They told me when my Sovereign there was last,
   That one man's rashness seemed to give distaste.
   It grieved them all, but when at last they found,
   His Majesty was pleased, their joys were crowned.
   He knew, the fairest garden hath some weeds,
   He did accept their kind intents, for deeds:
   One man there was, that with his zeal too hot,
   And furious haste, himself much overshot.
   But what man is so foolish, that desires
   To get good fruit from thistles, thorns and briars?
   Thus much I thought good to demonstrate here,
   Because I saw how much they grieved were;
   That any way, the least part of offence,
   Should make them seem offensive to their Prince.
   Thus three nights was I staid and lodged in Preston,
   And saw nothing ridiculous to jest on,
   Much cost and charge the Mayor upon me spent,
   And on my way two miles, with me he went,
   There (by good chance) I did more friendship get,
   The under Sheriff of Lancashire we met,
   A gentleman that loved, and knew me well,
   And one whose bounteous mind doth bear the bell.
   There, as if I had been a noted thief,
   The Mayor delivered me unto the Sheriff.
   The Sheriff's authority did much prevail,
   He sent me unto one that kept the jail.
   Thus I perambuling, poor John Taylor,
   Was given from Mayor to Sheriff, from Sheriff to Jailor.
   The Jailor kept an inn, good beds, good cheer,
   Where paying nothing, I found nothing dear,
   For the under-Sheriff kind Master Covill named,
   (A man for house-keeping renowed and famed)
   Did cause the town of Lancashire afford
   Me welcome, as if I had been a lord.
   And 'tis reported, that for daily bounty,
   His mate can scarce be found in all that county.
   The extremes of miser, or of prodigal,
   He shuns, and lives discreet and liberal,
   His wife's mind, and his own are one, so fixed,
   That Argus eyes could see no odds betwixt,
   And sure the difference, (if there difference be)
   Is who shall do most good, or he, or she.
   Poor folks report, that for relieving them,
   He and his wife, are each of them a gem;
   At the inn, and at his house two nights I staid,
   And what was to be paid, I know he paid:
   If nothing of their kindness I had wrote,
   Ungrateful me the world might justly note:
   Had I declared all I did hear, and see,
   For a great flatterer then I deemed should be,
   Him and his wife, and modest daughter Bess,
   With earth, and heaven's felicity, God bless.
   Two days a man of his, at his command,
   Did guide me to the midst of Westmoreland,
   And my conductor with a liberal fist,
   To keep me moist, scarce any alehouse missed.
   The fourth of August (weary, halt, and lame)
   We in the dark, to a town called Sedbergh came,
   There Master Borrowed, my kind honest host,
   Upon me did bestowed unasked cost.
   The next day I held on my journey still,
   Six miles unto a place called Carling hill,
   Where Master Edmund Branthwaite[10] doth reside,
   Who made me welcome, with my man and guide. These
   facts seem certainly to tell in favour of
   limited variability, while the cases of non-reversion
   do not contradict it, as it is not contended that
   all species have the same tendency to revert,
   but rather that their capacities in
   this respect, as well as for change, are
   different in different kinds, so that often reversion
   may only show itself at the end of very
   long periods indeed.
   
   Yet some of the instances given as probable or
   possible causes of reversion by Mr. Darwin,
   can hardly be such. He cites, for example, the
   occasional presence of supernumerary digits
   in man.[117] For this notion, however, he is not
   responsible, as he rests his remark on the
   authority of a {123} passage published by
   Professor Owen. Again, he refers[118] to "the
   greater frequency of a monster proboscis
   in the pig than in any other animal." But with
   the exception of the peculiar muzzle of the
   Saiga (or European antelope), the only known
   proboscidian Ungulates are the elephants and
   tapirs, and to neither of these has the pig
   any close affinity. It is rather in the
   horse than in the pig that we might look for the
   appearance of a reversionary proboscis, as
   both the elephants and the tapirs have the toes
   of the hind foot of an odd number.
   It is true that the elephants are generally
   considered to form a group apart from both the odd and the even-toed
Ungulata.

   
   Dalston, with
   Sir Henry
   Curwin.]

   From Carlisle to the city Edinburgh:
   This was a help, that was a help alone,
   Of all my helps inferior unto none.
   Eight miles from Carlisle runs a little river,
   Which England's bounds, from Scotland's grounds doth sever.
   Without horse, bridge, or boat, I o'er did get

[Sidenote: Over Esk I waded.]

   On foot, I went, yet scarce my shoes did wet.
   I being come to this long-looked-for land,
   Did mark, remark, note, renote, viewed, and scanned;
   And I saw nothing that could change my will,
   But that I thought myself in England still.
   The kingdoms are so nearly joined and fixed,
   There scarcely went a pair of shears betwixt;
   There I saw sky above, and earth below,
   And as in England, there the sun did show;
   The hills with sheep replete, with corn the dale,

[Sidenote: The afore-named knights had given money to my guide, of which he left some part
at every ale-house.]

   And many a cottage yielded good Scottish ale;
   This county (Avondale) in former times,
   Was the cursed climate of rebellious crimes:
   For Cumberland and it, both kingdoms borders,
   Were ever ordered, by their own disorders,
   Some sharking, shifting, cutting throats, and thieving,
   Each taking pleasure in the other's grieving;
   And many times he that had wealth to-night,
   Was by the morrow morning beggared quite:
   Too many years this pell-mell fury lasted,
   That all these borders were quite spoiled and wasted,
   Confusion, hurly-burly reigned and revelled,
   The churches with the lowly ground were levelled;
   All memorable monuments defaced,
   All places of defence o'erthrown and razed. Marked
   races have undoubtedly so arisen (some striking
   instances having been here recorded), and
   it is at least conceivable that such may be
   the mode of specific manifestation generally,
   the possible conditions as to which will be considered
   in a later chapter.
   
   As was observed in the preceding chapters, arguments
   may yet be advanced in favour of the opinion that
   species are stable (at least in the intervals
   of their comparatively sudden successive
   manifestations); that the organic world
   consists, according to Mr. Galton's before-mentioned
   conception, of many facetted spheroids, each of
   which can repose upon any one facet, but, when too much disturbed,
rolls over till it finds repose in stable equilibrium upon another
and distinct facet.
   From him and his, succession still derive
   True heirs unto his virtues, and his throne,
   That these two kingdoms ever may be one;
   This county of all Scotland is most poor,
   By reason of the outrages before,
   Yet mighty store of corn I saw there grow,
   And as good grass as ever man did mow:
   And as that day I twenty miles did pass,
   I saw eleven hundred neat at grass,
   By which may be conjectured at the least,
   That there was sustenance for man and beast.
   And in the kingdom I have truly scanned,
   There's many worser parts, are better manned,
   For in the time that thieving was in ure,
   The gentles fled to places more secure.
   And left the poorer sort, to abide the pain,
   Whilst they could ne'er find time to turn again.
   The shire of gentlemen is scarce and dainty,
   Yet there's relief in great abundance plenty,
   Twixt it and England, little odds I see,
   They eat, and live, and strong and able be,
   So much in verse, and now I'll change my style,
   And seriously I'll write in prose awhile.

To the purpose then: my first night's lodging in Scotland was at a place called Moffat, which
they say, is thirty miles from Carlisle, but I suppose them to be longer than forty of such
miles as are betwixt London and Saint Albans, (but indeed the Scots do allow almost as large
measure of their miles, as they do of their drink, for an English gallon either of ale or wine,
is but their quart, and one Scottish mile (now and then, may well stand for a mile and a half
or two English) but howsoever short or long, I found that day's journey the weariest that ever
I footed; and at night, being come to the town, I found good ordinary country entertainment:
my fare and my lodging was sweet and good, and might have served a far better man than myself,
although myself have had many times better: but this is to be noted, that though it rained
not all the day, yet it was my fortune to be well wet twice, for I waded over a great river
called Esk in the morning, somewhat more than four miles distance from Carlisle in England,
and at night within two miles of my lodging, I was fain to wade over the river of Annan in
Scotland, from which river the county of Annandale, hath its name. Our shipwrecked hero would probably
become king; he would kill a great many blacks in the struggle for existence; he would have
a great many wives and children." ... "In the first generation there will be some dozens of intelligent
young mulattoes, much superior in average intelligence to the negroes. We might expect the throne
for some generations to be occupied by a more or less yellow king; but can any one believe that
the whole island will gradually acquire a white, or even a yellow, population?"

"Darwin says that in the struggle for life a grain may turn the balance
in favour of a given structure, which will then be preserved. But
one of the weights in the scale of nature is due to the number of
a given tribe. A creature naturally compacted, and
artificially adorned with an incomparable homeliness: but as things were I must either take
or leave, and necessity made me enter, where we got eggs and ale by measure and by tail. It is
not, of course, for a moment meant to imply that its "simplicity" tells at all against "Natural
Selection," but only that the actual or supposed possession of that quality is a strong reason
for the wide and somewhat hasty acceptance of the theory, whether it be true or not.

In the second place, it was inevitable that a theory appearing to have very grave relations
with questions of the last importance and interest to man, that is, with questions of religious
belief, should call up an army of assailants and defenders. Nor have the supporters of the theory
much reason, in many cases, to blame the more or less unskilful and hasty attacks of adversaries,
seeing that those attacks have been in great part due to the unskilful and perverse advocacy
of the cause on the part of some of its adherents. If the odium theologicum has inspired some
of its opponents, it is undeniable that the odium antitheologicum has possessed not a few of
its supporters. It is true (and in appreciating some of Mr. Darwin's expressions it should
never be forgotten) that the theory has been both at its first promulgation
and since vehemently attacked and denounced as unchristian, nay, as
necessarily atheistic; but it is not less true that it has been made
use of as a weapon of offence by irreligious writers, and has been
again and again, especially in continental Europe, thrown, as it were,
in the face of believers, with sneers and contumely.

