It was dark, being October, and though I knew every yard of our ground, I marvel now to think
how I escaped breaking my leg in a ditch or coming to some other mishap. I raced on to Raven
Street, where Mr. Pinhorn lived, and by good luck found him just alighting at the door from
his nag. I told him my errand in gasps; the good surgeon understood without much telling, and
he leaped again into the saddle (his foot never having left the stirrup) and galloped away.

My knees shook so violently with the exertions I had made that I would fain have rested awhile
before returning. But the thought that my father might die in my absence struck me with a chill,
and I set off at a swinging stride after the surgeon.

I had gone but a few yards, however, when ahead of me, by the light of a flickering oil lamp,
hanging from a bracket before one of the houses, I saw a group of some five or six, youths
by their build, gathered about a doorway. Immediately afterwards I heard from the same spot
a harsh sound as of rending wood, followed by guffaws of laughter. The party then moved quickly
on for a few paces, and again came to a halt at a doorway, whence in a few seconds the same
sound reached my ears.

Passing the door at which I had first seen them, I noticed that where the knocker should have
been there was nothing but a few bent nails and a splintered panel. After former experiences
my suspicion scarce needed this confirmation: without doubt these were our Shrewsbury Mohocks,
out for a night's frolic. I had never before seen them at their diversions, my patrolling of
the streets with Captain Galsworthy having been a mere parade, as I have related, and now I
was in no mood to encounter them, having the trouble of my father's illness on my mind. But
I perceived that they were engaged in wreaking their knavery upon the sign board of Nelly Hind,
and my blood waxed hot at the thought of the poor woman's distress, and my fingers itched to
strike a blow on her behalf.

Strong as I was, I knew 'twould be mere folly to attempt single-handed to engage half a dozen,
and I was thinking of running quickly to some of the members of the Captain's disbanded force
and enlisting their help when the situation was changed by the arrival of old Ben Ivimey, the
feeblest of the ancient watchmen to whom the peace of Shrewsbury was confided. He was past
sixty and stone deaf, and his bent old figure, with a lantern in one hand and a staff in the
other, came round the corner all unsuspecting what was in store for him.

The Mohocks, intent upon their mischief, did not observe the coming of the watchman. Now I am
thinking, if you know it not, How I might kill you, kiss your breath clean out, And take your
soul to bring mine through to God, That our two souls might close and be one twain Or a twain one,
and God himself want skill To set us either severally apart.

The fellow swings round at the touch, and bursts into a roar of laughter. He was masked, as
were all his companions; but I knew him by his make to be Cyrus Vetch. Well, he laughs, and
shakes off the watchman's feeble grasp, and springing back, draws his sword; and in another
instant there was old Ben, the center of the group, skipping this way and that to avoid their
sword points, protesting, threatening, appealing, escaping one merely to run upon another.

I will say this for them, that they intended to do him no harm; their lunges were sportive
and not in earnest; but diverting as the sport was to them, it was the very contrary to the
old man, whose cries proclaimed that he thought his last hour was come.

All this happened in the space of a few moments. I was unwilling to leave old Ben to the mercy
of his tormentors while I ran for assistance, as I was intending; yet it was clear I could
do nothing alone.

"John Kynaston," thinks I, "lives only a couple of hundred yards away: he and I together might
account for the ruffians."

I was just turning to make my way to Kynaston's house, when a cry of pain from the old man
drove out all considerations of prudence. In dodging one of that ring of steel points it would
appear that he had stumbled full upon another, and the weapon, by accident or otherwise, had
pierced his arm. My blood was up; I clean forgot my design of running for help. I had no weapon
with me, but, hastily scanning the dim-lit street for a something to wield, my foot kicked
an object in the gutter. In a trice I had seized it in both hands, barely conscious of its
weight. Then I ran with it the few yards that separated me from the scuffle, and, lifting my
weapon above my head, hurled it at the nearest of the group. There was a sound of fury from
the fellow at whom I had aimed, and from the two beyond him--a sound muffled and all but inarticulate,
for the missile which had fallen like a bolt among them was a large wooden bin filled with
household refuse, and placed in the gutter for the coming of the early morning scavenger.

Chapter 4: Captain John Benbow.

Our Mohocks suffered some discomfort, I fear, as the contents of the bin hurtled upon them.
Household refuse hath, to be sure, no sweetness of savor; and the shower of bones, eggshells,
cabbage stalks, potato parings, rinds of bacon, and what not, with a plentiful admixture of
white wood ash, served to stay their activity in deeds, though I must own it did but enhance
the fury of their tongues. But the diversion gave me a breathing space in which I drew old
Ben within the shadow of a doorway and took his staff from his fainting hands--not without
resistance on his part, for the mettlesome old fellow refused to yield up his insignia until
I brought my face within an inch of his dim eyes, and he recognized me for a friend.

"Spring your rattle, man!" I cried, and then to the din of curses and roars for vengeance there
was added the sharp crackle of his alarm signal.

By this time the leaders of the rioters had rubbed the dust from their eyes and came towards
me, the foremost of them, Cyrus Vetch, shouting to his comrades to spit me like a toad. He
had recognized me, and sprang towards the doorway where I stood with staff aslant, the trembling
watchman still whirling his rattle behind. Mad with rage he cut at me with his sword, which
bit deep into the staff, by that very fact becoming for a brief moment useless.

Before Vetch could recover his weapon, I had withdrawn mine, and lunging fair upon him, I dealt
him a thrust that sent him spinning halfway across the street. But I was now beset by his comrades,
who made at me from both sides of the porch, but for whose shelter I should in all likelihood
have been overborne.

They had some sense of fair play, however. They returned their swords to the scabbards, and
were for trusting to their fists alone. I contrived to give one of them a smart tap on the
crown before they came to close quarters; but ere I could recover myself they were upon me,
the staff was wrenched from my grasp, and I was as hard put to it as a stag bayed by hounds.
I made what play I could with my fists, and got home at least one blow for two; but the odds
were too heavy against me, and when at length a fellow as big as myself slipped round to my
back and gripped me hard by the neck, all my struggles did not avail to prevent my being shoved
and pulled and hustled out into the middle of the street.

Vetch had picked himself up, and now came running towards me in a frenzy. In his rage he had
plucked off his mask, revealing his distorted features to all the good folk who, I doubt not,
by this time had their heads out at their windows, viewing the scene from a secure altitude.

"Out of the way, Mytton!" he screamed, his voice shrill with passion. "Out of the way, I say;
I will crop his ears, the cur!"

Burt Mytton, the fellow who had me by the neck, and some others of the band, were not for pushing
things to such extremities. They closed about to protect me, and even Dick Cludde caught Vetch's
arm and expostulated with him. Another meanwhile had snatched old Ivimey's rattle from him,
and ever and anon amid the din I caught the sound of his quavering voice calling, "Help for
the watch! O my sakes! O my bones!"

Then a cry arose:

"To the river! Give 'em a ducking!" and in another moment there we were, myself and Ivimey,
being lugged at a quick scuffle down the street towards the Severn. There was no hope of escape,
and I had resigned myself to the imminent bath, when at a turn in the narrow roadway we found
the path blocked by two pedestrians.

With Mytton's hand forcing my head downwards I did not at first see them, but I heard a loud
voice call, "Hold, rascals!" breaking in upon the watchman's feeble cry, "O my sakes! Help
for the watch!"

"Out of the way!" cried Vetch; but the next moment I heard a clatter of steel upon the cobbles;
and guessed that the stranger had struck my enemy's sword from his hand. Then my neck was released,
and looking up I saw my captor himself captive in the grip of a tall man in riding cloak and
high boots, while Vetch was struggling with a short, thick-set fellow who had his arms about
the other's body.

Bullies are ever cowards at heart, and the rest of the band, finding the tables thus turned
upon them, had taken to their heels and disappeared into the night.

"Let me go, hound!" yelled Vetch, and at the answer I started with a thrill of pleasure.

"Let ye go! Not for all the aldermen in the country. 'Twas your tricks drove me out of Shrewsbury,
and seemingly ye're at 'em still. You ha'nt learnt your lesson, Master Vetch; more fool you."

It was Joe Punchard's voice. If I had doubted it I should have been assured by a word that
fell from his companion.

"Haul him to the watch house, Joe. I'll bring this fellow!"

"And the bag, Captain?" says Joe.

"Give it to this long fellow," says the other, with a hard look at me.

And I found a large bag thrust into my arms, which Joe had been carrying and had dropped on
the road at the encounter.

By this time a crowd had assembled, the good folk who had been craning their necks at the windows
having swarmed out, now that the danger was past. And as we thronged up the street a score
of voices poured into the ears of the man Joe had called "captain" the full tale of the Mohocks'
doings.

I walked among them, shouldering the bag. I perceived that Joe had not recognized me, which
was not to be wondered at, seeing that when he last saw me I was a pale slip of a boy, whereas
now I was a tall brawny youth with cheeks the color of a ripe russet. And Joe himself was not
quite the 'prentice lad I had known. His legs indeed were no less bowed than of yore; nor was
his hair less red; but the round face appeared rounder than ever by reason of a thick fringe
of whiskers. His body had filled out, and he moved with a rolling gait that caused him to usurp
more than one man's share of the narrow street.

When we had laid the two ruffians safely in ward, the captain said to Joe:

"Now we'll go visit Nelly, and 'gad, my limbs yearn for bed, Joe. This fellow can still carry
the bag; 'tis worth a groat."

I grinned, and stepping alongside of Joe, whose head did not reach much above my elbow, I looked
down on him, and said:

"Don't you know me, Joe?"

His start of surprise set me a-smiling. His round face, somewhat more weatherbeaten than when
I saw it last, expressed amazement, incredulity, and half a dozen more emotions in turn.

"Bless my soul!" he cried. "Sure 'tis little Humphrey Bold, growed mountain high. Give me the
bag, sir; God forbid you should bear a load for Joe Punchard."

"No, no," I replied. "I'll earn my groat, now I've begun. And right glad I am to see you, Joe;
I had thought never to look on your face again."

"And would not, but for my dear captain," says he.

"Captain, 'tis Master Bold, the boy I told ye of. 'Twas him I saved from the hands of Cyrus
Vetch the last day I was at home, and sure 'tis a wonderful thing that the very night of homecoming
we save him again. Vetch needs another turn in the barrel, methinks. I wonder if my old master
has one that will hold his long carcass.

"But look 'ee, Master Humphrey, this be Captain Benbow, Mistress Nelly's brother, and my dear
master. Oh, I've a deal to tell 'ee of, and a deal to hear, I warrant me. Is my old mother
yet alive, sir?"

"Yes, and hale and hearty, Joe, though she has well-nigh given up hope of the silks and satins
you promised her."

"Bless her heart, she shall have 'em now. We have rid from Bristowe, sir, the captain and me,
and we stayed but to put up our horses at the Bull and Gate, where I left my bag filled with
good store of things for the old woman. Won't she open her eyes! Won't she thank Heaven for
bandy-legged Joe!"

We had now reached the door of Mistress Hind's house, and as I set down the bag a great oath
burst from Captain Benbow's lips.

"Split me!" says he, eying the splintered panel and the gap where the knocker had been. "Had
I those villains on deck they should have a supper of rope's end, I warrant you."

His voice was rough, and his tongue had a keen Shropshire tang, which indeed it never lost,
giving thereby evidence to confute those who afterwards claimed for him kinship with a noble
family. In truth Benbow was the son of an honest tanner of our town, and took no shame of his
origin: his greatness was above such pettiness of spirit. He had run away to sea at an early
age, and for some years lived a hard life before the mast. But his native merits in time triumphed
over adverse fortune, and before he was thirty he became master and in a good measure owner
of a frigate which he called The Benbow.

It is said, I know not with what truth, that his fortunes date from an adventure that befell
him in the year 1686. In the Benbow frigate he was attacked by a sallee rover, who boarded
him, but was beaten off with the loss of thirteen men. Benbow (I tell the tale as I heard it)
cut off their heads and threw them into pickle. When he landed at Cadiz, he brought them on
shore in a sack, and on being challenged by the custom house officers as importing contraband
goods, he threw them on the table with, "Gentlemen, if you like 'em, they are at your service."

This saying so tickled the humor of the king of Spain that he recommended Benbow to our King
James, and thus led to his promotion in our Royal Navy. The captain was now somewhat above
forty years old, straight but slight in build, not ill looking, save that his nose was a trifle
over big--a defect not uncommon, I have remarked, among great commanders.

Well, as I said, we had arrived at Mistress Hind's door, and the captain was in a great rage
at the havoc wrought by Vetch and his crew. He rapped on the door with the hilt of his sword,
and out pops Mistress Nelly's head from the window above ('twas in a night-cap), and she screams:

"Out upon you, you vagabones! You've done mischief enough for one night, drat you, and if ye
be not gone inside of half a minute I'll empty the slops on ye, that I will."

Benbow laughed.

"The family spirit!" he says under his breath to Joe. "Speak to her; don't tell her I'm here."

"Oh, Mistress Hind," says Joe in a mournful voice, "here's a welcome to a poor worn-out old
mariner as you used to befriend."

"Who in the world are ye?" she asks.

"Who but Joe Punchard, ma'am, that went away for rolling a barrel, and has been a-rolling ever
since."

"Ay, now I know your voice. Back like a bad penny, are ye? Come and see me tomorrow; I'm abed now."

"But I've brought a friend with me--another poor old mariner"--with a wink at Benbow--"who
wants a night's lodging."

"Can he pay?" asks Mistress Hind.

"To be sure: his pockets are full of pieces of eight and other sound coin."

"Then I'll come down to you; but ye must bide a minute or two till I throw a few things on,
for I'd die rather than show myself to a mariner in my night rail."

Benbow laughed again.

"'Tis twenty years or more since I saw Nell," he said, "but I'd know her tongue in any company."

And now the remembrance of my father's illness, which the subsequent excitements had driven
from my mind, returned with a sudden force that made me take a hasty leave of the two travelers,
though both asked me to wait and drink a dish of coffee with them. So I did not see the meeting
of brother and sister, but learned from Joe next day the manner of it.

Mistress Hind did not recognize the captain, never having seen him from a boy, until, sitting
at table with a dish of coffee before him, and she standing over him, bidding him haste that
she might return to bed--sitting thus, I say, he took up the dish and began to blow into it
to cool it, as children do.

"Why," says Mistress Hind, "tha blows it round and round to make little waves, just like my
brother John."

"Nelly!" says the captain, setting the dish down.

"And there they were," said Joe in telling me the story, "in each other's arms, and when she'd
done drying her eyes she says,

"'John, and I needn't ha' minded about the night rail!'"

It was nigh eleven o'clock when I got home--a very late hour in our parts, and Mistress Pennyquick
was in a great to-do, imagining all kinds of evil that might have befallen me. Mr. Pinhorn
had remained with my father a long time, she said; he was now asleep and was not to be disturbed.
I was myself fairly tired out, and fell asleep the instant my head touched the pillow. 

Would I saw that-- How did you slay him?

CHASTELARD. A clean pass--this way; Right in the side here, where the blood has root. His wrist went
round in pushing, see you, thus, Or he had pierced me.

QUEEN. Yea, I see, sweet knight. I have a mind to love you for his sake; Would I had seen.

CHASTELARD. Hugues de Marsillac-- I have the name now; 't was a goodly
one Before he changed it for a dusty name.

QUEEN. Talk not of death;
I would hear living talk Of good live swords and good strokes struck
withal, Brave battles and the mirth of mingling men, Not of cold names
you greet a dead man with. You are yet young for fighting; but in
fight Have you never caught a wound?

CHASTELARD. Both he
and Mytton were very heavily fined, and the Mayor was good enough to compliment me on the part
I had played.

As we were leaving the court, a tipstaff came up to Joe Punchard, and formally arrested him
as a runaway 'prentice; at the instance, I doubt not, of Vetch himself. But the matter ended
in a triumph for Joe, for Captain Benbow accompanied him before the Mayor and declared that
as a mariner in the King's navy he was immune from civil action. Whether the plea was good
in law I know not. The Mayor did not know either, and the clerk, to judge by his countenance,
was in an equal state of puzzlement. But Benbow was clearly not a man to be trifled with, and
Joe had certainly had a part in bringing the Mohocks to book, and for one reason or another
he was given the benefit of the doubt. When he left the court he was mightily cheered by a
mob of 'prentices among the crowd, and would have accepted the invitations to drink pressed
upon him but for the peremptory orders of his captain, who was no wine bibber himself, being
therein unlike many of the navy men of his time.

The fines levied on Mytton and Vetch were the least part of their punishment. The incident
of the dust bin brought on them open ridicule; they became the laughingstock of Shrewsbury.
The school wag, who afterwards became famous for his elegant Greek verses at Cambridge, pilloried
them in a lampoon which the whole town got by heart, and for days afterwards they could not
show their faces without being greeted by some lines from it by every small boy who thought
himself beyond their reach. It began, I remember:

Come list me sing a famous battle, A dustbin and a watchman's rattle; The hero he was nominate
Cyrus, The scene was Shrewsbury, not Epirus.

The rhymester introduced all the characters; for instance:

Another who the dust has bitten Was a brawny putt by name Ralph Mytton; And Richard Cludde,
a Cambridge lubber, He ran away home to his mam to blubber;

and so the doggerel went on, chronicling the details (more or less imaginary) of the fight,
the entrance of Mr. Benbow and Punchard on the scene:

And Nelly Hind's bashed portal closes On bandy legs and Roman noses;

and ending thus:

Carmen concludo sine mora: "Intus si recte ne labora,"

which being the school motto (dragged in by the hair of the head, so to speak), pleased Mr.
Lloyd, the master, mightily.

The rage of the persons chiefly concerned knew no bounds, and this good came of it, that the
Mohocks troubled Shrewsbury streets no more.

Captain Benbow, and with him Joe Punchard, stayed but a few days in the town. They had come
on a flying visit in an interval of the war against the French on the high seas, and very proud
we were that the captain, one of ourselves, was winning himself a name for prowess and gallantry
in his country's service.

Before he departed, however, I got from Joe a relation of what had befallen him since the night
he stole away. He arrived in Bristowe footsore and ragged, and there came nigh to starving
before he found employment. One shipmaster swore his hair was too red: it would serve for a
beacon to French privateers; another, that he was too bandy: his legs would never grip the
rigging if he essayed to go aloft. But at length he obtained a berth on a tobacco ship trading
to Virginia, and suffered great torture both from the sea and from the harsh and brutal ship's
officers. He made other voyages, to the Guinea coast, the Indies, and elsewhere, and one fine
day, being paid off at Southampton, he chanced to hear that Captain Benbow was in port, and
making himself known to that officer as a fellow townsman, he was taken by him to be his servant,
and had never left him since.

"And have you pickled any pirates' heads?" I asked, remembering the story, and bethinking me
of the silver-mounted cup possessed by Mr. Ridley, the captain's brother-in-law, which was
said to have once covered the head of a sallee rover.

"Pickled fiddlesticks!" says Joe. "Dunnat believe every mariner's tale you hear, Master Humphrey."

And then he proceeded to tell me a fearful and wonderful tale of a sea serpent, and was mightily
offended when I said it was all my eye.

Joe went away with his captain after a few days, and I own I envied him, and for the first
time felt a secret discontent in the prospect of a life among pigs and poultry, a feeling which
was heightened when Dick Cludde soon afterwards departed with a commission from His Majesty.
Dick was a lubber and, I believed then, though I had afterwards proof to the contrary, a coward;
and matching myself against him I knew I would do the king's navy more credit than he. But
I kept my thought to myself--and next day made a sad bungle, I remember, of my construe of
Thucydides' account of the sea fight at Salamis.

So months passed away. I saw with grave concern that my father was ailing more and more. The
attacks of his terrible disease came more frequently, and Mr. Pinhorn owned that he could do
him no good. He bore his pain with wonderful fortitude, never suffering a complaint to pass
his lips. Many a time in after years I recalled his noble courage, which helped me to bear
the lesser sufferings which fell to my lot. He seemed to know that his end was approaching,
and one day called me to his private room and talked to me with a kindness that brought a lump
into my throat.

Much of what he said is too sacred to be set down here; I can truthfully say that his assurance
of having made ample provision for me seemed of little moment beside his earnest loving counsel,
which made the deeper impression because he had so rarely spoken in that strain.

The end came suddenly, and with a shock that stunned me, for all I was so well prepared for
it. A few brief moments of dreadful agony, and the good man who had been more than a father
to me was no more. Never once during his long illness had his sister Lady Cludde visited him;
neither she nor her husband accompanied his remains to the grave: and when we had left him
in the churchyard of St. Mary and returned to the house, I was roused for a little from my
stupor by the sight of Sir Richard among those assembled to hear Mr. Vetch read the will.

A great wave of anger surged within me when I saw him sitting in my father's chair, his fat
hands folded upon his paunch, and his bleared eyes rolling a quizzing glance round upon the
little company. So enraged was I that I took little heed of Mr. Vetch at the table, and heard
nothing of what he said as he drew from his pocket a long paper sealed and tied with tape.
No doubt I watched him untie the knots and break the seal, and spread the document on the table
before him; no doubt I heard his cry of amazement, and saw Sir Richard and the few friends
of my father who were present rise from their seats and crowd about him; but I remained listless
in my place until a shriek from Mistress Pennyquick woke me to a sense that something was amiss.
Then I heard Sir Richard say, in his loud blustrous tones:

"Then my lady inherits?"

"Not so fast, not so fast, Sir Richard," said Mr. Vetch in a tone of great perturbation. "She
is, it is true, the heir-at-law, but our departed friend left his house, messuage, farm and
all its appurtenances to his adopted son Humphrey Bold, with an annuity of fifty pounds per
annum to his faithful housekeeper Rebecca Pennyquick: I took down his instructions with his
own hand, and engrossed the will myself.

"There is some mistake, gentlemen, something inexplicable. I must ask you, in all fairness,
to postpone your judgment of the matter until I have made search in my office. Never in my
forty years' experience has so untoward a thing happened, and I must beg of you to give me
time to solve the mystery."

"I will wait on you tomorrow, Mr. Attorney," says Sir Richard. "Meanwhile I claim this property
for my Lady Cludde."

And with that he takes his hat and stick and marches from the room.

The neighbors followed him, giving me commiserating glances, one or two of them shaking me
by the hand and speaking words of condolence. Mr. Vetch remained for a time staring at the
paper before him; then he folded it and came to me.

"Some devilish prank," he said hurriedly. "Never fear, my lad; all will come right. I will
see you tomorrow, my boy."

And then he too went, leaving me alone with Mistress Pennyquick, who had done nothing for some
while but sob and rock herself to and fro on her chair.

"That wicked man!" she moaned. "But he will be punished--he will be punished, Humphrey. What
does the good Book say about them that despoil widows and orphans? Oh, my poor master!"

"What is it, Becky?" I asked, with but little curiosity for her answer.

"'Tis the doing of that wicked man and his wife! I know it is," the poor creature sobbed. "And
they wouldn't come near the poor soul when he was in his agony. And now they want to rob us--to
rob you, my poor boy, and me who served him faithful these twenty year. God will punish him!"

"But what have they done, then?" I asked again.

"Done! Lord knows what they haven't done. I knew summat would happen when I saw Mr. Vetch come
to your poor father a while ago--you mind, I told you so. Lawyers are all no good, that's my
belief. Don't tell me Mr. Vetch didn't know what he was a-carrying. He's in league with the
wretches, I know he is, for all his mazed look. Don't tell me he didn't know the paper was
as white as the underside of a fleece. Fleece is the very word for it: he's fleeced us, sure
enough, and I'll come on the parish, and you'll be a beggar, and they unnatural wretches will
wallow in their pride, and--oh! I can't abear it, I can't abear it!"

And the poor creature burst into a passion of weeping, so that it was some time before I could
learn the cause of her distress. It was amazing enough. When Mr. Vetch unfolded the document
which he believed to be my father's will, the paper inside was as clean as when it came from
the scrivener's. There was not a single mark upon it.

Chapter 6: I Take Articles.

We were at breakfast next morning, Mistress Pennyquick and I, when Captain Galsworthy, after
a herald tap on the door, walked into the room.

"What's this cock-and-bull story that's running over the town?" he cried without circumstance.

Before I could reply, Mistress Pennyquick began to pour out her tale of woe, roundly accusing
Sir Richard Cludde and Lawyer Vetch of conspiring to defraud me of my rights.

"I haven't slept a wink the whole night through, sir," says the poor soul, "and I've wetted
six--no, 'tis seven handkerchers till they're like clouts from the washtub, and I can hardly
see out o' my eyes, and--"

"Stuff and nonsense and a fiddlestick end!" cries the captain angrily, "dry your eyes, woman.
Of all God's creatures a sniveling woman is the worst. Vetch has been wool gathering:

"Quandoque dormitat Homerus--eh, Humphrey?--

"Which means, ma'am, that you sometimes catch a weasel asleep. Depend on't, he engrossed the
wrong docket, and by this time has discovered the true will in one of his moldy boxes. Gad,
it'll ruin him, though--if his nephew has not done it already. A family lawyer can't afford
to be caught napping.

"Put on your cap, Humphrey: we'll go and look into things and hint that we must change our
attorney."

So he and I set off together. But, early as it was, Sir Richard Cludde had been before us.
When we entered Mr. Vetch's office, there was the burly knight with his hand on the door, flinging
a parting word at the lawyer, who sat behind his desk with his wig awry, the picture of harassment
and woe. Sir Richard gave a curt nod to the captain, but vouchsafed me not a glance.

"You understand, Mr. Attorney?" he said. "The present occupants will vacate the premises within
a week, and you will bring me the keys."

Then he strode away, banging the door after him. The captain whistled.

"Sits the wind--the whirlwind, I might say-in that quarter? Where's the will, Vetch?"

"I would give my right hand to know," said the lawyer. "There is Mr. Ellery's box"--he indicated
a case of black tin with the name John Ellery printed in white letters on its side; "'twas
there I laid it, with the title deeds and other documents. I searched it through yesterday.
I spent half the night in ransacking every other box in the room, all to no purpose."

"You did not lay it aside when you had drawn it and afterwards engross a blank paper like folded,
think you?"

"Sir, 'tis impossible. I drew the will at a sitting: it was not a long one; folded, engrossed,
and tied it with my own hands. Nothing short of witchcraft could undo my handiwork."

"Or your nephew," snapped the captain. "He is the boon fellow of young Cludde; 'tis the Cluddes
who gain by the disappearance, and mightily glad they will be of the property if all is true
that's said of Sir Richard's affairs. Where's your nephew, Vetch?"

