 464–429                   159
          XX.  The Expedition to Sicily. B.C. 415–413              167
         XXI.  The Shore of the Goat’s River. B.C. 406–402         174
        XXII.  The Retreat of the Ten Thousand. B.C.               181
               402–399
       XXIII.  The Death of Socrates. B.C. 399                     189
        XXIV.  The Supremacy of Sparta. B.C. 396                   196
         XXV.  The Two Theban Friends. B.C. 387–362                203
        XXVI.  Philip of Macedon. B.C. 364                         210
       XXVII.  The Youth of Alexander. B.C. 356–334                217
      XXVIII.  The Expedition to Persia. B.C. 334                  224
        XXIX.  Alexander’s Eastern Conquests. B.C. 331–328         231
         XXX.  The End of Alexander. B.C. 328                      238
        XXXI.  The Last Struggles of Athens. B.C. 334–311          245
       XXXII.  The Four New Kingdoms. B.C. 311–287                 252
      XXXIII.  Pyrrhus, King of Epirus. B.C. 287                   258
       XXXIV.  Aratus and the Achaian League. B.C. 267             265
        XXXV.  Agis and the Revival of Sparta. B.C.                272
               244–236
       XXXVI.  Cleomenes and the Fall of Sparta. B.C.              279
               236–222
      XXXVII.  Philopœmen, the Last of the Greeks. B.C.            286
               236–184
     XXXVIII.  The Fall of Greece. B.C. 189–146                    293
       XXXIX.  The Gospel in Greece. B.C. 146–A.D. 60              300
          XL.  Under the Roman Empire                              308
         XLI.  The Frank Conquest. 1201–1446                       315
        XLII.  The Turkish Conquest. 1453–1670                     322
       XLIII.  The Venetian Conquest and Loss. 1684–1796           328
        XLIV.  The War of Independence. 1815                       334
         XLV.  The Kingdom of Greece. 1822–1875                    340

                   [Picture: Decorative chapter header]

                      LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. Which
                                                              is well
enough in its way, although it must be galling to the Chinese to have
outsiders refer to the streets of China as "ours." Americans would
resent such a remark made by a foreigner concerning the streets of
New York.

If only the European nations had been as decent to China as America
has been! Then, in this crisis, China would have turned to them, been
guided by them, with the same trust that she places in America. As
it is, she distrusts all Europe to the core.

And over all this whirling dust of rumor and gossip, hatred and ill
feeling, there has been raging for the past three days a physical
dust-storm of tremendous intensity. The yellow, overhead kind, sifting
downward in clouds of powder, and covering everything, inside and
out. The China-boys about the hotel tell us with superstitious awe
that when a dust-storm lasts more than three days it is "bad joss."
Such a storm, of a week's duration, preceded the outbreak of the Chinese-Japanese
War. Every one feels uneasy, the whole atmosphere is full of depression,
tension, and suspense. One can't think or talk of anything but this
impending disaster.

This afternoon we went out for a while to forget it, if we could. We
went to the Lung Fu-Ssu, a sort of rag-fair held every ten days in
the grounds of an old temple in the East City. It's a wonderful fair,
usually, with booths and stalls stretching in every direction, and
spreading all over the ground, underfoot as well. Everything is sold
at this bazaar, everything made in China or ever made in China, to-day
or in the remote past,--porcelain, bronzes, jade, lacquer, silks,
clothing, toys, fruits, food, curios, dogs and cats. Three times a
month everything of every description finds its way to the Lung Fu-Ssu,
and three times a month all foreign Peking, to say nothing of native
Peking, finds its way to the temple grounds to look for bargains.
To-day, however, it wasn't much fun: neither the native city nor the
legation quarter were out in force, for the dust was too thick, the
air too cold.

Indefatigable bargain-hunters as we were, we could not stay long; but
I don't believe it was because of the overwhelming dust: it was just
sheer nervous anxiety to get back to the hotel for the latest news.
We are all restless and anxious, and withal feel ourselves so utterly
impotent to avert this impending calamity. Therefore, as I say, we
didn't stay long at the fair,--just long enough for me to buy a pair
of little, ancient, dilapidated stone lions, which the man assured
me were of the Ming dynasty. My first venture into Ming. They looked
it, anyway, when I bought them. I laid them at my feet in a newspaper,
and--I suppose the jolting of the rickshaw did it--when we reached
the hotel, the Ming had all rubbed off. They were stone lions of the
purest plaster.

We found a note from the minister asking us in for tea, so we brushed
ourselves hastily and went over to the legation to find a large crowd
of dusty people assembled, in the beautiful, spacious drawing-rooms.
Every one was talking politics, discussing the situation fore and
aft, and, as usual, arriving nowhere. At the end of an hour there
was a stir caused by the arrival of C----, one of the young, important
Members of Parliament. He stood surrounded by an enquiring group,
hands hidden up the capacious sleeves of his crackling brocade coat,
while he sucked in his breath with hissing noises, in deference to
the honorable company. "Good news!" he exclaimed, "good news! Or so
I think you'll find it! We have just decided to break with Germany!"

There
wasn't what you'd call rejoicing; instead, his rather hilarious announcement
was greeted with a sort of constrained silence. It's such a tremendous
thing for any country to declare war, and for a country in China's
position it is such a blind leap into the abyss. However, the matter
is not yet quite decided: the first vote is taken, but the final has
yet to be cast. Parliament has been sitting all day. This, of course,
merely means the severance of diplomatic relations, but the next step
must follow as the night the day.

I must tell you of an incident that occurred the other day, when we
were at tiffin at the home of some English acquaintances. But first
I must tell you about the pailows, and before that again, I must tell
you of the French ships that carry troops. I don't know where to begin,
for you must hear everything if you are to see the point.

I'll start with the pailows, those big, red lacquer memorial arches
that span the streets all over the place--arch, by the way, being
a figure of speech, since actually these arches are square, and consist
of two upright posts with a third laid horizontally across them.

                         They are emblazoned all over with gilded characters and sprawling
dragons, and honor some great Chinese,--erected to his memory instead
of a library or a hospital or something like that.

 I.—OLYMPUS.

I am going to tell you the history of the most wonderful people who ever lived.  But I have
to begin with a good deal that is not true; for the people who descended from Japhet’s son
Javan, and lived in the beautiful islands and peninsulas called Greece, were not trained in
the knowledge of God like the Israelites, but had to guess for themselves.  They made strange
stories, partly from the old beliefs they brought from the east, partly from their ways of
speaking of the powers of nature—sky, sun, moon, stars, and clouds—as if they were real beings,
and so again of good or bad qualities as beings also, and partly from old stories about their
forefathers.  These stories got mixed up with their belief, and came to be part of their religion
and history; and they wrote beautiful poems about them, and made such lovely statues in their
honour, that nobody can understand anything about art or learning who has not learnt these
stories.  I must begin with trying to tell you a few of them.

[Picture: Head of Jupiter] In the first place, the Greeks thought there were twelve greater
gods and goddesses who lived in Olympus.  There is really a mountain called Olympus, and those
who lived far from it thought it went up into the sky, and that the gods really dwelt on the
top of it. Those who lived near, and knew they did not, thought they lived in the sky.  But
the chief of all, the father of gods and men, was the sky-god—Zeus, as the Greeks called him,
or Jupiter, as he was called in Latin.  However, as all things are born of Time, so the sky
or Jupiter was said to have a father, Time, whose Greek name was Kronos.  His other name was
Saturn; and as Time devours his offspring, so Saturn was said to have had the bad habit of
eating up his children as fast as they were born, till at last his wife Rhea contrived to give
him a stone in swaddling clothes, and while he was biting this hard morsel, Jupiter was saved
from him, and afterwards two other sons, Neptune (Poseidon) and Pluto (Hades), who became lords
of the ocean and of the world of the spirits of the dead; for on the sea and on death Time’s
tooth has no power.  However, Saturn’s reign was thought to have been a very peaceful and happy
one.  For as people always think of the days of Paradise, and believe that the days of old
were better than their own times, so the Greeks thought there had been four ages—the Golden
age, the Silver age, the Brazen age, and the Iron age—and that people had been getting worse
in each of them.  Poor old Saturn, after the Silver age, had had to go into retirement, with
only his own star, the planet Saturn, left to him; and Jupiter was reigning now, on his throne
on Olympus, at the head of the twelve greater gods and goddesses, and it was the Iron age down
below.  His star, the planet we still call by his name, was much larger and brighter than Saturn.
Jupiter was always thought of by the Greeks as a majestic-looking man in his full strength,
with thick hair and beard, and with lightnings in his hand and an eagle by his side.  These
lightnings or thunderbolts were forged by his crooked son Vulcan (Hephæstion), the god of fire,
the smith and armourer of Olympus, whose smithies were in the volcanoes (so called from his
name), and whose workmen were the Cyclops or Round Eyes—giants, each with one eye in the middle
of his forehead.  Once, indeed, Jupiter had needed his bolts, for the Titans, a horrible race
of monstrous giants, of whom the worst was Briareus, who had a hundred hands, had tried, by
piling up mountains one upon the other, to scale heaven and throw him down; but when Jupiter
was hardest pressed, a dreadful pain in his head caused him to bid Vulcan to strike it with
his hammer.  Then out darted Heavenly Wisdom, his beautiful daughter Pallas Athene or Minerva,
fully armed, with piercing, shining eyes, and by her counsels he cast down the Titans, and
heaped their own mountains, Etna and Ossa and Pelion, on them to keep them down; and whenever
there was an earthquake, it was thought to be caused by one of these giants struggling to get
free, though perhaps there was some remembrance of the tower of Babel in the story.  Pallas,
this glorious daughter of Jupiter, was wise, brave, and strong, and she was also the goddess
of women’s works—of all spinning, weaving, and sewing.

Jupiter’s wife, the queen of heaven or the air, was Juno—in Greek, Hera—the white-armed, ox-eyed,
stately lady, whose bird was the peacock. Do you know how the peacock got the eyes in his tail?
They once belonged to Argus, a shepherd with a hundred eyes, whom Juno had set to watch a cow
named Io, who was really a lady, much hated by her.  Argus watched till Mercury (Hermes) came
and lulled him to sleep with soft music, and then drove Io away.  Juno was so angry, that she
caused all the eyes to be taken from Argus and put into her peacock’s tail.

Mercury has a planet called after him too, a very small one, so close to the sun that we only
see it just after sunset or before sunrise.  I believe Mercury or Hermes really meant the morning
breeze.  The story went that he was born early in the morning in a cave, and after he had slept
a little while in his cradle, he came forth, and, finding the shell of a tortoise with some
strings of the inwards stretched across it, he at once began to play on it, and thus formed
the first lyre.  He was so swift that he was the messenger of Jupiter, and he is always represented
with wings on his cap and sandals; but as the wind not only makes music, but blows things away
unawares, so Mercury came to be viewed not only as the god of fair speech, but as a terrible
thief, and the god of thieves. You see, as long as these Greek stories are parables, they are
grand and beautiful; but when the beings are looked on as like men, they are absurd and often
horrid.  The gods had another messenger, Iris, the rainbow, who always carried messages of
mercy, a recollection of the bow in the clouds; but she chiefly belonged to Juno.

All the twelve greater gods had palaces on Olympus, and met every day in Jupiter’s hall to
feast on ambrosia, a sort of food of life which made them immortal.  Their drink was nectar,
which was poured into their golden cups at first by Vulcan, but he stumbled and hobbled so
with his lame leg that they chose instead the fresh and graceful Hebe, the goddess of youth,
till she was careless, and one day fell down, cup and nectar and all.  The gods thought they
must find another cupbearer, and, looking down, they saw a beautiful youth named Ganymede watching
his flocks upon Mount Ida.  So they sent Jupiter’s eagle down to fly away with him and bring
him up to Olympus.  They gave him some ambrosia to make him immortal, and established him as
their cupbearer.  Besides this, the gods were thought to feed on the smoke and smell of the
sacrifices people offered up to them on earth, and always to help those who offered them most
sacrifices of animals and incense.

The usual names of these twelve were—Jupiter, Neptune, Juno, Latona, Apollo, Diana, Pallas,
Venus, Vulcan, Mercury, Vesta, and Ceres; but there were multitudes besides—“gods many and
lords many” of all sorts of different dignities.  Every river had its god, every mountain and
wood was full of nymphs, and there was a great god of all nature called Pan, which in Greek
means All.  Neptune was only a visitor in Olympus, though he had a right there.  His kingdom
was the sea, which he ruled with his trident, and where he had a whole world of lesser gods
and nymphs, tritons and sea horses, to attend upon his chariot.

And the quietest and best of all the goddesses was Vesta, the goddess of the household hearth—of
home, that is to say.  There are no stories to be told about her, but a fire was always kept
burning in her honour in each city, and no one might tend it who was not good and pure.

                            [Picture: Medusa]

CHAP. II.—LIGHT AND DARK.

                   [Picture: Decorative chapter header]

The god and goddess of light were the glorious twin brother and sister, Phœbus Apollo and Diana
or Artemis.  They were born in the isle of Delos, which was caused to rise out of the sea to
save their mother, Latona, from the horrid serpent, Python, who wanted to devour her.  Gods
were born strong and mighty; and the first thing Apollo did was to slay the serpent at Delphi
with his arrows.  Here was a dim remembrance of the promise that the Seed of the woman should
bruise the serpent’s head, and also a thought of the way Light slays the dragon of darkness
with his beams.  Apollo was lord of the day, and Diana queen of the night.  They were as bright
and pure as the thought of man could make them, and always young.  The beams or rays were their
arrows, and so Diana was a huntress, always in the woods with her nymphs; and she was so modest,
that once, when an unfortunate wanderer, named Actæon, came on her with her nymphs by chance
when they were bathing in a stream, she splashed some water in his face and turned him into
a stag, so that his own dogs gave chase to him and killed him.  I am afraid Apollo and Diana
were rather cruel; but the darting rays of the sun and moon kill sometimes as well as bless;
and so they were the senders of all sharp, sudden strokes.  There was a queen called Niobe,
who had six sons and daughters so bright and fair that she boasted that they were equal to
Apollo and Diana, which made Latona so angry, that she sent her son and daughter to slay them
all with their darts.  The unhappy Niobe, thus punished for her impiety, wept a river of tears
till she was turned into stone.

       [Picture: Supposed Temple of Jupiter Panhellenius in Ægina]

The moon belonged to Diana, and was her car; the sun, in like manner, to Apollo, though he
did not drive the car himself, but Helios, the sun-god, did.  The world was thought to be a
flat plate, with Delphi in the middle, and the ocean all round.  In the far east the lady dawn,
Aurora, or Eôs, opened the gates with her rosy fingers, and out came the golden car of the
sun, with glorious white horses driven by Helios, attended by the Hours strewing dew and flowers.
It passed over the arch of the heavens to the ocean again on the west, and there Aurora met
it again in fair colours, took out the horses, and let them feed.  Aurora had married a man
named Tithonus.  She gave him ambrosia, which made him immortal, but she could not keep him
from growing old, so he became smaller and smaller, till he dwindled into a grasshopper, and
at last only his voice was to be heard chirping at sunrise and sunset.

Helios had an earthly wife too, and a son named Phaëton, who once begged to be allowed to drive
the chariot of the sun for just one day.  Helios yielded; but poor Phaëton had no strength
nor skill to guide the horses in the right curve.  At one moment they rushed to the earth and
scorched the trees, at another they flew up to heaven and would have burnt Olympus, if Jupiter
had not cast his thunderbolts at the rash driver and hurled him down into a river, where he
was drowned.  His sisters wept till they were changed into poplar trees, and their tears hardened
into amber drops. 

The statesman in him was but an adept in magic; for Ministers he took mere charlatans. Skilled
conjurers replaced at Potsdam Frederick’s “judicious Ministers.”

XII.

Of all these mystical adventurers, the one whose influence was perhaps the most baneful for the
Prussian State was Wœllner, a pure intriguer. Son of a country pastor, he worked his way into
the household of General d’Itzenplitz; after wheedling the mother, he ended by marrying the daughter.
Frederick, who was anything but indulgent to mis-alliances, had him clapped into prison in
Berlin. The hatred of Wœllner for the Philosopher-King dated from that day. At that time he was
a rationalist and a disciple of Wolf; he became a Freemason. But already in high society in Germany
the wind no longer set in the direction of pure Deism. Wœllner, always a perfect sceptic,
changed his convictions. Considering himself as fitted as any other for the apparition business
and the mystery industry, he decided to turn “honest broker” between the powers of this world
and those of the next, basing his credit with the former on that which he claimed with the latter.
He joined the Rosicrucians, and soon became one of the leading lights of the Order.

Thus he knew the man who was to counterbalance his favour at the Court of Berlin and one day
share with him Frederick’s Government, the Saxon Bischoffswerder. The son of a small noble,
an officer of fortune, come like so many others to seek service in Prussia, he had wormed his
way into the favour of the Prince-Royal, and had quickly taken him in.

XIII.

Mistresses and favourites, Rosicrucians and valets, theosophists and femmes galantes, on the
whole got on very well together and agreed surprisingly. It was but a step from the laboratory
of the Rosicrucians to the boudoir of Madame Rietz, and these mystic
personages cleared it without a scrap of shame.

They formed a close alliance with the valet de chambre and his wife, the maîtresse d’habitude,
who throughout all the matrimonial pranks of the King managed to preserve her credit by artifices
analogous to those which at Versailles had so long maintained that of Madame de Pompadour.

Around them swarmed a crowd of subordinate intriguers, the “clique,” as they were called in Berlin,
ready for all sorts of jobs behind the scenes at Court, in the Army, in politics, in diplomacy—above
all, in finance. Needy and greedy, they had a firmly established reputation in Europe for venality.
“I maintain,” declared Mirabeau, “that with a thousand louis you could, if need be, know perfectly
all the secrets of the Berlin Cabinet.... So the Emperor has a faithful record of every step
of the King, day by day, and could know everything he planned, if
he planned anything.” These were the methods, as Custine affirmed
in 1792, that every diplomatist in the world employed; all the Ministers
who resided in Berlin used them with more success and more generally
than elsewhere.

XIV.

Such was the strange band of adventurers who
pounced on the monarchy and the treasury of Frederick the Great. Their
course of action, very complex and very powerful, was well designed
to captivate a fantastic and voluptuous bigot.
So Jupiter sent Mercury to bring Proserpine home; but she was only to be allowed to stay on
earth on condition that she had eaten nothing while in the under world.  Pluto, knowing this,
had made her eat half a pomegranate, and so she could not stay with her mother; but Ceres’s
tears prevailed so far that she was to spend the summer above ground and the winter below.
For she really was the flowers and fruit.  Ceres had grown so fond of little Triptolemus that
she wanted to make him immortal; but, as she had no ambrosia, this could only be done by putting
him on the fire night after night to burn away his mortal part.  His mother looked in one night
during the operation, and shrieked so that she prevented it; so all Ceres could do for him
was to give him grains of wheat and a dragon car, with which he travelled all about the world,
teaching men to sow corn and reap harvests.

