By and by the Bermuda Islands were easily visible. The importance of these suggestions is fully
set forth in the letter of the Secretary of State and the accompanying documents, herewith
transmitted, to which I invite your attention.
BENJ. HARRISON.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 6, 1890. At last we sighted buoys, bobbing here and there,
and then we glided into a narrow channel among them, "raised the reef," and came upon shoaling
blue water that soon further shoaled into pale green, with a surface scarcely rippled. Now
came the resurrection hour; the berths gave up their dead. Who are these pale specters in plug-hats
and silken flounces that file up the companionway in melancholy procession and step upon the
deck? These are they which took the infallible preventive of seasickness in New York harbor
and then disappeared and were forgotten. Also there came two or three faces not seen before
until this moment. One's impulse is to ask, "Where did you come aboard?"

We followed the narrow channel a long time, with land on both sides--low hills that might have
been green and grassy, but had a faded look instead. However, the land-locked water was lovely,
at any rate, with its glittering belts of blue and green where moderate soundings were, and
its broad splotches of rich brown where the rocks lay near the surface. Everybody was feeling
so well that even the grave, pale young man (who, by a sort of kindly common consent, had come
latterly to be referred to as "The Ass") received frequent and friendly notice--which was right
enough, for there was no harm in him.

At last we steamed between two island points whose rocky jaws allowed only just enough room
for the vessel's body, and now before us loomed Hamilton on her clustered hillsides and summits,
the whitest mass of terraced architecture that exists in the world, perhaps.

It was Sunday afternoon, and on the pier were gathered one or two hundred Bermudians, half
of them black, half of them white, and all of them nobbily dressed, as the poet says.

Several boats came off to the ship, bringing citizens. One of these citizens was a faded, diminutive
old gentleman, who approached our most ancient passenger with a childlike joy in his twinkling
eyes, halted before him, folded his arms, and said, smiling with all his might and with all
the simple delight that was in him, "You don't know me, John! Come, out with it now; you know
you don't!"

The ancient passenger scanned him perplexedly, scanned the napless, threadbare costume of venerable
fashion that had done Sunday service no man knows how many years, contemplated the marvelous
stovepipe hat of still more ancient and venerable pattern, with its poor, pathetic old stiff
brim canted up "gallusly" in the wrong places, and said, with a hesitation that indicated strong
internal effort to "place" the gentle old apparition, "Why... let me see... plague on it...
there's something about you that... er... er... but I've been gone from Bermuda for twenty-seven
years, and... hum, hum ... I don't seem to get at it, somehow, but there's something about
you that is just as familiar to me as--"

"Likely it might be his hat," murmured the Ass, with innocent, sympathetic interest.

So the Reverend and I had at last arrived at Hamilton, the principal town in the Bermuda Islands.
A wonderfully white town; white as snow itself. White as marble; white as flour. Yet looking
like none of these, exactly. Never mind, we said; we shall hit upon a figure by and by that
will describe this peculiar white.

It was a town that was compacted together upon the sides and tops of a cluster of small hills.
Its outlying borders fringed off and thinned away among the cedar forests, and there was no
woody distance of curving coast or leafy islet sleeping upon the dimpled, painted sea, but
was flecked with shining white points--half-concealed houses peeping out of the foliage. The
architecture of the town was mainly Spanish, inherited from the colonists of two hundred and
fifty years ago. Some ragged-topped cocoa-palms, glimpsed here and there, gave the land a tropical
aspect.

There was an ample pier of heavy masonry; upon this, under shelter, were some thousands of
barrels containing that product which has carried the fame of Bermuda to many lands, the potato.
With here and there an onion. That last sentence is facetious; for they grow at least two onions
in Bermuda to one potato. The onion is the pride and joy of Bermuda. It is her jewel, her gem
of gems. In her conversation, her pulpit, her literature, it is her most frequent and eloquent
figure. In Bermuda metaphor it stands for perfection--perfection absolute.

The Bermudian weeping over the departed exhausts praise when he says, "He was an onion!" The
Bermudian extolling the living hero bankrupts applause when he says, "He is an onion!" The
Bermudian setting his son upon the stage of life to dare and do for himself climaxes all counsel,
supplication, admonition, comprehends all ambition, when he says, "Be an onion!"

When parallel with the pier, and ten or fifteen steps outside it, we anchored. It was Sunday,
bright and sunny. The groups upon the pier--men, youths, and boys-were whites and blacks in
about equal proportion. All were well and neatly dressed; many of them nattily, a few of them
very stylishly. One would have to travel far before he would find another town of twelve thousand
inhabitants that could represent itself so respectably, in the matter of clothes, on a freight-pier,
without premeditation or effort. The women and young girls, black and white, who occasionally
passed by, were nicely clad, and many were elegantly and fashionably so. The men did not affect
summer clothing much, but the girls and women did, and their white garments were good to look
at, after so many months of familiarity with somber colors.

Around one isolated potato-barrel stood four young gentlemen, two black, two white, becomingly
dressed, each with the head of a slender cane pressed against his teeth, and each with a foot
propped up on the barrel. Another young gentleman came up, looked longingly at the barrel,
but saw no rest for his foot there, and turned pensively away to seek another barrel. He wandered
here and there, but without result. Nobody sat upon a barrel, as is the custom of the idle
in other lands, yet all the isolated barrels were humanly occupied. Whosoever had a foot to
spare put it on a barrel, if all the places on it were not already taken. The habits of all
peoples are determined by their circumstances. The Bermudians lean upon barrels because of
the scarcity of lamp-posts.

Many citizens came on board and spoke eagerly to the officers--inquiring about the Turco-Russian
war news, I supposed. We should encourage the establishment of American steamship lines. The
exchanges of commerce demand stated, reliable, and rapid means of communication, and until these
are provided the development of our trade with the States lying south
of us is impossible.

Our pension laws should give more adequate and discriminating relief to the Union soldiers and sailors
and to their widows and orphans. Such occasions as this should remind us that we owe everything to
their valor and sacrifice.

It is a subject of congratulation that there is a near prospect of the admission into the Union
of the Dakotas and Montana and Washington Territories. This act of justice has been unreasonably
delayed in the case of some of them. The people who have settled these Territories are intelligent,
enterprising, and patriotic, and the accession of these new States will add strength to the
nation. It is due to the settlers in the Territories who have availed themselves of the invitations
of our land laws to make homes upon the public domain that their
titles should be speedily adjusted and their honest entries confirmed
by patent.

It is very gratifying to observe the general interest now being manifested in the reform of
our election laws. Those who have been for years calling attention to the pressing necessity of
throwing about the ballot box and about the elector further safeguards, in order that our elections
might not only be free and pure, but might clearly appear to be so, will welcome the accession
of any who did not so soon discover the need of reform. The National Congress has not as yet taken
control of elections in that case over which the Constitution gives
it jurisdiction, but has accepted and adopted the election laws of
the several States, provided penalties for their violation and a method
of supervision.

Only the inefficiency of the State laws or an unfair partisan administration
of them could suggest a departure from this policy.

It was clearly, however, in the contemplation of the framers of the
Constitution that such an exigency might arise, and provision was
wisely made for it. The freedom of the ballot is a condition of our
national life, and no power vested in Congress or in the Executive
to secure or perpetuate it should remain unused upon occasion. Everywhere you go you see square recesses
cut into the hillsides, with perpendicular walls unmarred by crack or crevice, and perhaps
you fancy that a house grew out of the ground there, and has been removed in a single piece
from the mold. If you do, you err. But the material for a house has been quarried there. They
cut right down through the coral, to any depth that is convenient--ten to twenty feet--and
take it out in great square blocks. This cutting is done with a chisel that has a handle twelve
or fifteen feet long, and is used as one uses a crowbar when he is drilling a hole, or a dasher
when he is churning. Thus soft is this stone. Then with a common handsaw they saw the great
blocks into handsome, huge bricks that are two feet long, a foot wide, and about six inches
thick. These stand loosely piled during a month to harden; then the work of building begins.

The house is built of these blocks; it is roofed with broad coral slabs an inch thick, whose
edges lap upon each other, so that the roof looks like a succession of shallow steps or terraces;
the chimneys are built of the coral blocks, and sawed into graceful and picturesque patterns;
the ground-floor veranda is paved with coral blocks; also the walk to the gate; the fence is
built of coral blocks--built in massive panels, with broad capstones and heavy gate-posts,
and the whole trimmed into easy lines and comely shape with the saw. Then they put a hard coat
of whitewash, as thick as your thumb-nail, on the fence and all over the house, roof, chimneys,
and all; the sun comes out and shines on this spectacle, and it is time for you to shut your
unaccustomed eyes, lest they be put out. It is the whitest white you can conceive of, and the
blindingest. A Bermuda house does not look like marble; it is a much intenser white than that;
and, besides, there is a dainty, indefinable something else about its look that is not marble-like.
We put in a great deal of solid talk and reflection over this matter of trying to find a figure
that would describe the unique white of a Bermuda house, and we contrived to hit upon it at
last. It is exactly the white of the icing of a cake, and has the same unemphasized and scarcely
perceptible polish. The white of marble is modest and retiring compared with it.

After the house is cased in its hard scale of whitewash, not a crack, or sign of a seam, or
joining of the blocks is detectable, from base-stone to chimney-top; the building looks as
if it had been carved from a single block of stone, and the doors and windows sawed out afterward.
A white marble house has a cold, tomb-like, unsociable look, and takes the conversation out
of a body and depresses him. Not so with a Bermuda house. There is something exhilarating,
even hilarious, about its vivid whiteness when the sun plays upon it. If it be of picturesque
shape and graceful contour--and many of the Bermudian dwellings are--it will so fascinate you
that you will keep your eyes on it until they ache. One of those clean-cut, fanciful chimneys--too
pure and white for this world--with one side glowing in the sun and the other touched with
a soft shadow, is an object that will charm one's gaze by the hour. I know of no other country
that has chimneys worthy to be gazed at and gloated over. One of those snowy houses, half concealed
and half glimpsed through green foliage, is a pretty thing to see; and if it takes one by surprise
and suddenly, as he turns a sharp corner of a country road, it will wring an exclamation from
him, sure.

Wherever you go, in town or country, you find those snowy houses, and always with masses of
bright-colored flowers about them, but with no vines climbing their walls; vines cannot take
hold of the smooth, hard whitewash. Wherever you go, in the town or along the country roads,
among little potato farms and patches or expensive country-seats, these stainless white dwellings,
gleaming out from flowers and foliage, meet you at every turn. The least little bit of a cottage
is as white and blemishless as the stateliest mansion. Nowhere is there dirt or stench, puddle
or hog-wallow, neglect, disorder, or lack of trimness and neatness. The roads, the streets,
the dwellings, the people, the clothes--this neatness extends to everything that falls under
the eye. It is the tidiest country in the world. And very much the tidiest, too.

Considering these things, the question came up, Where do the poor live? No answer was arrived
at. Therefore, we agreed to leave this conundrum for future statesmen to wrangle over.

What a bright and startling spectacle one of those blazing white country palaces, with its
brown-tinted window-caps and ledges, and green shutters, and its wealth of caressing flowers
and foliage, would be in black London! And what a gleaming surprise it would be in nearly any
American city one could mention, too!

Bermuda roads are made by cutting down a few inches into the solid white coral--or a good many
feet, where a hill intrudes itself--and smoothing off the surface of the road-bed. It is a
simple and easy process. The grain of the coral is coarse and porous; the road-bed has the
look of being made of coarse white sugar. Its excessive cleanness and whiteness are a trouble
in one way: the sun is reflected into your eyes with such energy as you walk along that you
want to sneeze all the time. Old Captain Tom Bowling found another difficulty. He joined us
in our walk, but kept wandering unrestfully to the roadside. Finally he explained. Said he,
"Well, I chew, you know, and the road's so plagued clean."

We walked several miles that afternoon in the bewildering glare of the sun, the white roads,
and the white buildings. Our eyes got to paining us a good deal. By and by a soothing, blessed
twilight spread its cool balm around. We looked up in pleased surprise and saw that it proceeded
from an intensely black negro who was going by. We answered his military salute in the grateful
gloom of his near presence, and then passed on into the pitiless white glare again.

The colored women whom we met usually bowed and spoke; so did the children. The colored men
commonly gave the military salute. They borrow this fashion from the soldiers, no doubt; England
has kept a garrison here for generations. The younger men's custom of carrying small canes
is also borrowed from the soldiers, I suppose, who always carry a cane, in Bermuda as everywhere
else in Britain's broad dominions.

The country roads curve and wind hither and thither in the delightfulest way, unfolding pretty
surprises at every turn: billowy masses of oleander that seem to float out from behind distant
projections like the pink cloud-banks of sunset; sudden plunges among cottages and gardens,
life and activity, followed by as sudden plunges into the somber twilight and stillness of
the woods; flitting visions of white fortresses and beacon towers pictured against the sky
on remote hilltops; glimpses of shining green sea caught for a moment through opening headlands,
then lost again; more woods and solitude; and by and by another turn lays bare, without warning,
the full sweep of the inland ocean, enriched with its bars of soft color and graced with its
wandering sails.

Take any road you please, you may depend upon it you will not stay in it half a mile. Your
road is everything that a road ought to be: it is bordered with trees, and with strange plants
and flowers; it is shady and pleasant, or sunny and still pleasant; it carries you by the prettiest
and peacefulest and most homelike of homes, and through stretches of forest that lie in a deep
hush sometimes, and sometimes are alive with the music of birds; it curves always, which is
a continual promise, whereas straight roads reveal everything at a glance and kill interest.
Your road is all this, and yet you will not stay in it half a mile, for the reason that little
seductive, mysterious roads are always branching out from it on either hand, and as these curve
sharply also and hide what is beyond, you cannot resist the temptation to desert your own chosen
road and explore them. You are usually paid for your trouble; consequently, your walk inland
always turns out to be one of the most crooked, involved, purposeless, and interesting experiences
a body can imagine. There is enough of variety. Sometimes you are in the level open, with marshes
thick grown with flag-lances that are ten feet high on the one hand, and potato and onion orchards
on the other; next, you are on a hilltop, with the ocean and the islands spread around you;
presently the road winds through a deep cut, shut in by perpendicular walls thirty or forty
feet high, marked with the oddest and abruptest stratum lines, suggestive of sudden and eccentric
old upheavals, and garnished with here and there a clinging adventurous flower, and here and
there a dangling vine; and by and by your way is along the sea edge, and you may look down
a fathom or two through the transparent water and watch the diamond-like flash and play of
the light upon the rocks and sands on the bottom until you are tired of it--if you are so constituted
as to be able to get tired of it.

You may march the country roads in maiden meditation, fancy free, by field and farm, for no
dog will plunge out at you from unsuspected gate, with breath-taking surprise of ferocious
bark, notwithstanding it is a Christian land and a civilized. We saw upward of a million cats
in Bermuda, but the people are very abstemious in the matter of dogs. Two or three nights we
prowled the country far and wide, and never once were accosted by a dog. It is a great privilege
to visit such a land. The cats were no offense when properly distributed, but when piled they
obstructed travel.

As we entered the edge of the town that Sunday afternoon, we stopped at a cottage to get a
drink of water. The proprietor, a middle-aged man with a good face, asked us to sit down and
rest. His dame brought chairs, and we grouped ourselves in the shade of the trees by the door.
Mr. Smith--that was not his name, but it will answer--questioned us about ourselves and our
country, and we answered him truthfully, as a general thing, and questioned him in return.
It was all very simple and pleasant and sociable. Rural, too; for there was a pig and a small
donkey and a hen anchored out, close at hand, by cords to their legs, on a spot that purported
to be grassy. Presently, a woman passed along, and although she coldly said nothing she changed
the drift of our talk. Said Smith:

"She didn't look this way, you noticed? Well, she is our next neighbor on one side, and there's
another family that's our next neighbors on the other side; but there's a general coolness
all around now, and we don't speak. Yet these three families, one generation and another, have
lived here side by side and been as friendly as weavers for a hundred and fifty years, till
about a year ago."

"Why, what calamity could have been powerful enough to break up so old a friendship?"

"Well, it was too bad, but it couldn't be helped. It happened like this: About a year or more
ago, the rats got to pestering my place a good deal, and I set up a steel trap in my back yard.
Both of these neighbors run considerable to cats, and so I warned them about the trap, because
their cats were pretty sociable around here nights, and they might get into trouble without
my intending it. Well, they shut up their cats for a while, but you know how it is with people;
they got careless, and sure enough one night the trap took Mrs. Jones's principal tomcat into
camp and finished him up. In the morning Mrs. Jones comes here with the corpse in her arms,
and cries and takes on the same as if it was a child. It was a cat by the name of Yelverton--Hector
G. Yelverton--a troublesome old rip, with no more principle than an Injun, though you couldn't
make her believe it. I said all a man could to comfort her, but no, nothing would do but I
must pay for him. Finally, I said I warn't investing in cats now as much as I was, and with
that she walked off in a huff, carrying the remains with her. That closed our intercourse with
the Joneses. Mrs. Jones joined another church and took her tribe with her. She said she would
not hold fellowship with assassins. Well, by and by comes Mrs. Brown's turn--she that went
by here a minute ago. She had a disgraceful old yellow cat that she thought as much of as if
he was twins, and one night he tried that trap on his neck, and it fitted him so, and was so
sort of satisfactory, that he laid down and curled up and stayed with it. Such was the end
of Sir John Baldwin."

"Was that the name of the cat?"

"The same. There's cats around here with names that would surprise you. Maria" (to his wife),
"what was that cat's name that eat a keg of ratsbane by mistake over at Hooper's, and started
home and got struck by lightning and took the blind staggers and fell in the well and was 'most
drowned before they could fish him out?"

"That was that colored Deacon Jackson's cat. I only remember the last end of its name, which
was Hold-The-Fort-For-I-Am-Coming Jackson."

"Sho! that ain't the one. That's the one that eat up an entire box of Seidlitz powders, and
then hadn't any more judgment than to go and take a drink. He was considered to be a great
loss, but I never could see it. Well, no matter about the names. Mrs. Brown wanted to be reasonable,
but Mrs. Jones wouldn't let her. She put her up to going to law for damages. So to law she
went, and had the face to claim seven shillings and sixpence. It made a great stir. All the
neighbors went to court. Everybody took sides. It got hotter and hotter, and broke up all the
friendships for three hundred yards around friendships that had lasted for generations and
generations.

"Well, I proved by eleven witnesses that the cat was of a low character and very ornery, and
warn't worth a canceled postage-stamp, anyway, taking the average of cats here; but I lost
the case. What could I expect? The system is all wrong here, and is bound to make revolution
and bloodshed some day. You see, they give the magistrate a poor little starvation salary,
and then turn him loose on the public to gouge for fees and costs to live on. What is the natural
result? Why, he never looks into the justice of a case--never once. All he looks at is which
client has got the money. So this one piled the fees and costs and everything on to me. I could
pay specie, don't you see? and he knew mighty well that if he put the verdict on to Mrs. Brown,
where it belonged, he'd have to take his swag in currency."

"Currency? Why, has Bermuda a currency?"

"Yes--onions. And they were forty per cent. discount, too, then, because the season had been
over as much as three months. So I lost my case. I had to pay for that cat. But the general
trouble the case made was the worst thing about it. Broke up so much good feeling. The neighbors
don't speak to each other now. Mrs. Brown had named a child after me. But she changed its name
right away. She is a Baptist. Well, in the course of baptizing it over again it got drowned.
I was hoping we might get to be friendly again some time or other, but of course this drowning
the child knocked that all out of the question. It would have saved a world of heartbreak and
ill blood if she had named it dry."

I knew by the sigh that this was honest. All this trouble and all this destruction of confidence
in the purity of the bench on account of a seven-shilling lawsuit about a cat! Somehow, it
seemed to "size" the country.

At this point we observed that an English flag had just been placed at half-mast on a building
a hundred yards away. I and my friends were busy in an instant trying to imagine whose death,
among the island dignitaries, could command such a mark of respect as this. Then a shudder
shook them and me at the same moment, and I knew that we had jumped to one and the same conclusion:
"The governor has gone to England; it is for the British admiral!"

At this moment Mr. Smith noticed the flag. He said with emotion:

"That's on a boarding-house. I judge there's a boarder dead."

A dozen other flags within view went to half-mast.

"It's a boarder, sure," said Smith.

"But would they half-mast the flags here for a boarder, Mr. Smith?"

"Why, certainly they would, if he was dead."

That seemed to size the country again.

IV.

The early twilight of a Sunday evening in Hamilton, Bermuda, is an alluring time. There is
just enough of whispering breeze, fragrance of flowers, and sense of repose to raise one's
thoughts heavenward; and just enough amateur piano music to keep him reminded of the other
place. There are many venerable pianos in Hamilton, and they all play at twilight. Age enlarges
and enriches the powers of some musical instruments--notably those of the violin--but it seems
to set a piano's teeth on edge. Most of the music in vogue there is the same that those pianos
prattled in their innocent infancy; and there is something very pathetic about it when they
go over it now, in their asthmatic second childhood, dropping a note here and there where a
tooth is gone.

We attended evening service at the stately Episcopal church on the hill, where five or six
hundred people, half of them white and the other half black, according to the usual Bermudian
proportions; and all well dressed--a thing which is also usual in Bermuda and to be confidently
expected. There was good music, which we heard, and doubtless--a good sermon, but there was
a wonderful deal of coughing, and so only the high parts of the argument carried over it. As
we came out, after service, I overheard one young girl say to another:

"Why, you don't mean to say you pay duty on gloves and laces! I only pay postage; have them
done up and sent in the Boston Advertiser."

There are those that believe that the most difficult thing to create is a woman who can comprehend
that it is wrong to smuggle; and that an impossible thing to create is a woman who will not
smuggle, whether or no, when she gets a chance. But these may be errors.

We went wandering off toward the country, and were soon far down in the lonely black depths
of a road that was roofed over with the dense foliage of a double rank of great cedars. There
was no sound of any kind there; it was perfectly still. And it was so dark that one could detect
nothing but somber outlines. We strode farther and farther down this tunnel, cheering the way
with chat.

Presently the chat took this shape: "How insensibly the character of the people and of a government
makes its impress upon a stranger, and gives him a sense of security or of insecurity without
his taking deliberate thought upon the matter or asking anybody a question! We have been in
this land half a day; we have seen none but honest faces; we have noted the British flag flying,
which means efficient government and good order; so without inquiry we plunge unarmed and with
perfect confidence into this dismal place, which in almost any other country would swarm with
thugs and garroters--"

'Sh! What was that? Stealthy footsteps! Low voices! We gasp, we close up together, and wait.
A vague shape glides out of the dusk and confronts us. A voice speaks--demands money!

"A shilling, gentlemen, if you please, to help build the new Methodist church."

Blessed sound! Holy sound! We contribute with thankful avidity to the new Methodist church,
and are happy to think how lucky it was that those little colored Sunday-school scholars did
not seize upon everything we had with violence, before we recovered from our momentary helpless
condition. By the light of cigars we write down the names of weightier philanthropists than
ourselves on the contribution cards, and then pass on into the farther darkness, saying, What
sort of a government do they call this, where they allow little black pious children, with
contribution cards, to plunge out upon peaceable strangers in the dark and scare them to death?

