The old Squire tried various methods of making the trees bear. At the suggestion of neighbors
he drove rusty nails into the trunks, and buried bags of pear seeds at the foot of them, and
he fertilized the inclosure richly. But all to no purpose. Finally grandmother advised the
old Squire to spread the leached ashes from her leach tub--after she had made soap and hulled
corn in the spring--on the ground inside the pen. The old Squire did so, and the next spring
both trees blossomed. They bore bountifully that summer and every season afterward, until they
died.

We had a young neighbor, Alfred Batchelder, who was fond of foraging by night for plums, grapes,
and pears in the orchards of his neighbors. His own family did not raise fruit; they thought
it too much trouble to cultivate the trees. But Alfred openly boasted of having the best fruit
that the neighborhood afforded. One of Alfred's cronies in these nocturnal raids was a boy,
named Harvey Yeatton, who lived at the village, six or seven miles away; almost every year
he came to visit Alfred for a week or more in September.

It was a good-natured community. To early apples, indeed, the rogues were welcome; but garden
pears, plums, and grapes were more highly prized, for in Maine it requires some little care
to raise them. At the farm of our nearest neighbors, the Edwardses, there were five greengage
trees that bore delicious plums. For three summers in succession Alfred and Harvey stole nearly
every plum on those trees--at least, there was little doubt that it was they who took them.

They also took the old Squire's pears in the walled pen. Twice Addison and I tracked them home
the next morning in the dewy grass, across the fields. Time and again, too, they took our Bartlett
pears and plums. Addison wanted the old Squire to send the sheriff after them and put a stop
to their raids, but he only laughed. "Oh, I suppose those boys love pears and plums," he said,
forbearingly. But we of the younger generation were indignant.

One day, when the old Squire and I were driving to the village, we met Alfred; the old gentleman
stopped, and said to him:

"My son, hadn't you better leave me just a few of those pears in the old pound this year?"

"I never touched a pear there!" Alfred shouted. "You can't prove I did, and you'd better not
accuse me."

The old Squire only laughed, and drove on.

A few nights afterward both pear-trees were robbed and nearly stripped of fruit. We found several
broken twigs on the top branches, and guessed that Alfred had used a long pole with a hook
at the end with which to shake down the fruit. After what had passed on the road this action
looked so much like defiance that the old Squire was nettled. He did nothing about it at the
time, however.

Another year passed. Then at table one night Ellen remarked that Harvey Yeatton had come to
visit Alfred again. "Alfred brought him up from the village this afternoon," she said. "I saw
them drive by together."

"Now the pears and plums will have to suffer again!" said I.

"Yes," said Ellen. "They stopped down at the foot of the hill, and looked up at those two pear-trees
in the old pound; then they glanced at the house, to see if any one had noticed that they were
passing."

"Those pears are just getting ripe," said Addison. "It wouldn't astonish me if they disappeared
to-night. There's no moon, is there?"

"No," said grandmother Ruth. "It's the dark of the moon. Joseph, you had better look out for
your pears to-night," she added, laughing.

The old Squire went on eating his supper for some minutes without comment; but just as we finished,
he said, "Boys, where did we put our skunk fence last fall?"

"Rolled it up and put it in the wagon-house chamber," said I.

"About a hundred and fifty feet of it, isn't there?"

"A hundred and sixty," said Addison. "Enough, you know, to go round that patch of sweet corn
in the garden."

"That wire fence worked well with four-footed robbers," the old Squire remarked, with a twinkle
in his eye. "Perhaps it might serve for the two-footed kind. You fetch that down, boys; I've
an idea we may use it to-night."

For several summers the garden had been ravaged by skunks. Although carnivorous by nature,
the little pests seem to have a great liking for sweet corn when in the milk.

Wire fence, woven in meshes, such as is now used everywhere for poultry yards, had then recently
been advertised. We had sent for a roll of it, two yards in width, and thereafter every summer
we had put it up round the corn patch. None of the pests ever scaled the wire fence; and thereafter
we had enjoyed our sweet corn in peace.

That night, just after dusk, we reared the skunk fence on top of the old pound wall, and fastened
it securely in an upright position all round the inclosure. The wall was what Maine farmers
call a "double wall"; it was built of medium-sized stones, and was three or four feet wide
at the top. It was about six feet high, and when topped with the wire made a fence fully twelve
feet in height.

The old pound gate had long ago disappeared; in its place were two or three little bars that
could easily be let down. The trespassers would naturally enter by that gap, and on a moonless
night would not see the wire fence on top of the wall. They would have more trouble in getting
out of the place than they had had in getting into it if the gap were to be stopped.

At the farm that season were two hired men, brothers named James and Asa Doane, strong, active
young fellows; and since it was warm September weather, the old Squire asked them to make a
shake-down of hay for themselves that night behind the orchard wall, near the old pound, and
to sleep there "with one eye open." If the rogues did not come for the pears, we would take
down the skunk fence early the next morning, and set it again for them the following night. 

For where should we be without them?"

He smiles suavely, as though some pleasant thought was passing through his mind.

"At any rate a good many people die too soon or too late," said Mr. Edgar Marten who, after
doing full justice to the food and drinks, had suddenly appeared on the scene. "Often too late,"
he added.

Keith, despite his professions of sanity and reason, had an inexplicable, invincible horror of
death; he quailed at the mere mention of the black phantom. The subject being not at all to
his taste, he promptly remarked:

"The scholar Grosseteste was unquestionably born too soon. And I know one man who is born too
late. Who? Yourself, Count. You were made for the Periclean epoch."

"Thank you," said that gentleman with a gracious wave of his hand.

"But forgive me for disagreeing with you. Had I lived in that age, I should be lacking in
reverence for what it accomplished.

I should be too near to its life; unable, as you say, to see the forest for the trees. I should
be like Thucydides, a most sensible person who, if I recollect aright, barely mentions Ictinus
and the rest of them. How came it about? This admirable writer imagined they were building a temple
for Greece; he lacked the interval of centuries which has allowed mankind to see their work in
its true perspective. He possessed traditional moral standards whereby to judge the actions of historical
contemporaries; he could praise or blame his politicians with a good
conscience. For the Parthenon creators he had no sure norm. The standards
were not yet evolved. Pheidias was a talented fellow-citizen--a hewer
in stone by profession: what could he know of the relations of Pheidias
to posterity? Great things can only be seen at a proper distance.
Pheidias, to him, may have been little more than an amateur, struggling
with brute material in the infancy of his trade or calling. No, my
friend! I am glad not to be coeval with Pericles. I am glad to recognize
Hellenic achievements at their true worth. When I reached the place Jim and Asa--with Addison looking on--had tied the
rogues together, and were haling them up through the orchard.

"Take 'em to the barn, Squire!" Jim shouted. "Shut the big doors, so the neighbors can't hear
'em holler, and then give it to 'em good!"

"Yes, give it to 'em, Squire!" Asa exclaimed. "They need it."

The old Squire was following after them, cracking his whip, for I suppose he thought it well
to frighten the scamps thoroughly. It was too dark for me to see Alfred's face or Harvey's,
but they had little to say. The procession moved on to the barn; I rolled the doors open, while
Addison ran to get a lantern. Grandmother and the girls had retired hastily to the ell piazza,
where they stood listening apprehensively.

"Now I am going to give you your choice," the old Squire said. "Shall I send for the sheriff,
or will you take a whipping and promise to stop stealing fruit?"

Neither Alfred nor Harvey would reply; and the old Squire told Addison to hitch up Old Sol
and fetch Hawkes, the sheriff. The prospect of jail frightened the boys so much that they said
they would take the whipping, and promise not to steal any more fruit.

"I am sorry to say, Alfred, that I don't wholly trust your word," the old Squire said. "You
have told me falsehoods before. We must have your promise in writing."

He sent me into the house for paper and pencil, and then set Addison to write a pledge for
the boys to sign. As nearly as I remember, it ran like this:

"We, the undersigned, Harvey Yeatton and Alfred Batchelder, confess that we have been robbing
gardens and stealing our neighbors' fruit for four years. We have been caught to-night stealing
pears at the old pound. We have been given our choice of going to jail or taking a whipping
and promising to steal no more in the future. We choose the whipping and the promise, and we
engage to make no complaint and no further trouble about this for any one."

The old Squire read it over to them and bade them to take notice of what they were signing.
"For if I hear of your stealing fruit again," said he, "I shall get a warrant and have you
arrested for what you have done to-night. Here are four witnesses ready to testify against you."

Alfred and Harvey put their names to the paper while I held the lantern.

"Now give it to 'em, Squire!" said Jim, when the boys had signed.

From the first Addison and I had had little idea that the old Squire would whip the boys. It
was never easy to induce him to whip even a refractory horse or ox. Now he took the paper,
read their names, then folded it and put it into his pocket.

"I guess this will hold you straight, boys," he said. "Now you can go home."

"What, ain't ye goin' to lick 'em?" Jim exclaimed.

"Not this time," said the old gentleman. "Untie them and let them go."

Jim and Asa were greatly disappointed. "Let me give 'em jest a few licks," Jim begged, with
a longing glance at the whip.

"Not this time," the old Squire replied. "If we catch them at this again, I'll see about it.
And, boys," he said to them, as Jim and Asa very reluctantly untied the knots of their bonds,
"any time you want a pocketful of pears to eat just come and ask me. But mind, don't you steal
another pear or plum in this neighborhood!"

Addison opened the barn doors, and Alfred and Harvey took themselves off without ceremony.

Apparently they kept their promise with us, for we heard of no further losses of fruit in that
neighborhood.

CHAPTER XXVIII

HALSTEAD'S GOBBLER

At that time a flock of twenty or thirty turkeys was usually raised at the old farm every fall--fine,
great glossy birds. Nearly every farmhouse had its flock; and by October that entire upland
county resounded to the plaintive Yeap-yeap, yop-yop-yop! and the noisy Gobble-gobble-gobble!
of the stupid yet much-prized "national bird." At present you may drive the whole length of
our county and neither hear nor see a turkey.

In their young days the old Squire and Judge Fessenden of Portland, later in life Senator Fessenden,
had been warm friends; and after the old Squire chose farming for a vocation and went to live
at the family homestead, he was wont to send the judge a fine turkey for Thanksgiving--purely
as a token of friendship and remembrance. The judge usually acknowledged the gift by sending
in return an interesting book, or other souvenir, sometimes a new five-dollar greenback--when
he could not think of an appropriate present.

The old Squire did not like to accept money from an old friend, and after we young people went
home to Maine to live he transferred to us the privilege of sending Senator Fessenden a turkey
for Thanksgiving, and allowed us to have the return present.

By September we began to look the flock over and pick out the one that bade fair to be the
largest and handsomest in November. There was much "hefting" and sometimes weighing of birds
on the barn scales. We carefully inspected their skins under their feathers, for we sent the
judge a "yellow skin," and never a "blue skin," however heavy.

That autumn there was considerable difference of opinion among us which young gobbler, out
of twenty or more, was the best and promised to "dress off" finest by Thanksgiving. Addison
chose a dark, burnished bird with a yellow skin; at that time our flock was made up of a mixture
of breeds--white, speckled, bronze and golden. Halstead chose a large speckled gobbler with
heavy purple wattles and a long "quitter" that bothered him in picking up his food.

Theodora and Ellen also selected two, and I had my eye on one with golden markings, but of
that I need say no more here; as weeks passed, it proved inferior to Addison's and to Theodora's.

Even as late as October 20, it was not easy to say which was the best one out of five; at about
that time I also discovered that Addison was secretly feeding his bronze turkey, out at the
west barn, with rations of warm dough. Theodora and I exchanged confidences and began feeding
ours on dough mixed with boiled squash, for we had been told that this was good diet for fattening
turkeys.

When Halstead found out what we were doing, he was indignant and declared we were not playing
fair; but we rejoined that he had the same chance to "feed up," if he desired to take the trouble.

At the Corners, about a mile from the old Squire's, there lived a person who had far too great
an influence over Halstead. His name was Tibbetts; he was post-master and kept a grocery; also
he sold intoxicants covertly, in violation of the state law, and was a gambler in a small,
mean way. Claiming to know something of farming and of poultry, he told Halstead that the best
way to fatten a turkey speedily was to shut it up and not allow it to run with the rest of
the flock. He said, too, that if a turkey were shut up in a well-lighted place, it would fret
itself, running to and fro, particularly if it heard other turkeys calling to it.

The food for fattening turkeys, said Tibbetts, should consist of a warm dough, made from two
parts corn meal and one part wheat bran. To a quart of such dough he asserted that a tablespoonful
of powdered eggshells should be added, also a dust of Cayenne pepper. And if a really perfect
food for fattening poultry were desired, Tibbetts declared that a tablespoonful of new rum
should be added to the water with which the quart of dough was mixed. A wonderful turkey food,
no doubt!

Tibbetts also told Halstead to take a pair of sharp shears and cut off an inch and a half of
his turkey's "quitter," if it were too long and bothered him about eating. If the turkey grew
"dainty," as Tibbetts expressed it, Halstead was to make the dough into rolls about the size
of his thumb, then open the bird's beak, shove the rolls in, and make him swallow them--three
or four of them, three times a day.

Halstead came home from the Corners and made a quart of dough according to the Tibbetts formula.
I do not know certainly about the spoonful of rum. If Tibbetts gave him the rum, Halstead kept
quiet about it; the old Squire was a strict observer of the Maine law.

None of us found out what Halstead was doing for four or five days, and then only by accident.
For he had caught his speckled gobbler and put him down at the foot of the stairs in the wagon-house
cellar; and he got a sheet of hemlock bark, four feet long by two or three feet wide, such
as are peeled off hemlock logs, and sold at tanneries, for the turkey to stand on.

It was dark as Egypt down in that cellar, when the door at the head of the stairs was shut;
and turkeys, as is well-known, are very timid about moving in the dark. That poor gobbler just
stood there, stock-still, on that sheet of bark and did not dare step off it. Three times a
day Halstead used to go down there, on the sly, with a lantern, and feed him.

This went on for some time; Addison and I learned of it from hearing a little faint gobble
in the cellar one morning when the flock was out in the farm lane, just behind the wagon-house.
The young gobblers were gobbling and the hen turkeys yeaping; and from down cellar came a faint,
answering gobble. We wondered how a turkey had got into that cellar, and on opening the door
and peering down the stairs, we discovered Halstead's speckled gobbler standing on the curved
sheet of hemlock bark.

While Addison and I were wondering about it, Halstead came out, and roughly told us to let
his turkey alone! In reply to our questions he at last gave us some information about his project
and boasted that within three weeks he would have a turkey four pounds heavier than any other
in the flock; but he would not tell us how to make his kind of dough.

Addison scoffed at the scheme; but to show how well it was working, Halstead took us downstairs
and had us "heft" the turkey. It did seem to be getting heavy. Halstead also got his dough
dish and showed us how he fed his bird. After the second roll of dough had been shoved down
his throat, the poor gobbler opened his bill and gave a queer little gasp of repletion, like
Ca-r-r-r! None the less, Halstead made him swallow four rolls of dough!

Addison was disgusted. "Halse, I call that nasty!" he said. "I wouldn't care to eat a turkey
fattened that way. I've a good notion to tell the old Squire about this."

Halstead was angry. "Oh, yes!" he exclaimed. "After I raise the biggest turkey, I suppose you
will go and tell everybody that it isn't fit to eat!"

So Addison and I went about our business, but we used to peep down there once in a while, to
see that poor bird standing, humped up, on his sheet of bark. Sometimes, too, when we saw Halstead
going down with the lantern to feed him, we went along to see the performance and hear the
turkey groan, Ca-r-r-r! "Halstead, that's wicked!" Addison said several times; and Halstead
retorted that we were both trying to make out a story against him, so as to sneak our own turkeys
in ahead of his.

Nine or ten days passed. Halstead was nearly always behindhand when we turned out to do the
farm chores. As we went through the wagon-house one morning Addison stopped to take another
peep at the captive; I went on, but a moment later heard him calling to me softly. When I joined
him at the foot of the stairs he lighted a match for me to see. Halstead's gobbler lay dead
with both feet up in the air. We wondered what Halstead would say when he went to feed his
turkey. As we left, we heard him coming down from upstairs. He did not join us, to help do
the chores, for half an hour. When he did appear, he looked glum; he had carried the poor victim
of forced feeding out behind the west barn and buried him in the bean field--without ceremonies.

We said nothing--except now and then, as days passed, to ask him how the speckled gobbler was
coming on. Halstead would look hard at us, but vouchsafed no replies.

The judge's turkey was sent to Portland on November 15; at that period each state appointed
its own Thanksgiving Day, and in Maine the 17th had been set. Addison's choice had proved the
best turkey: I think it weighed nearly seventeen pounds; he divided the five dollars with Theodora.
The old Squire never learned of Halstead's bootless experiment in forced feeding.

CHAPTER XXIX

MITCHELLA JARS

Cold weather was again approaching. October had been very wet; but bright, calm days of Indian
summer followed in November. And about that time Catherine, Theodora and Ellen had an odd adventure
while out in the woods gathering partridge berries.

At the old farm we called the vivid green creeping vine that bears those coral-red berries
in November, "partridge berry," because partridge feed on the berries and dig them from under
the snow. Botanists, however, call the vine Mitchella repens. But they behaved shockingly the very
next week--quite disgracefully! They are hopeless, those friends of yours, though one cannot
help liking them somehow. I got through good deal of other work of that kind," he added.

"I see you are a man of action. Sometimes I wish I were. A little money has made me lazy, I'm
afraid. But I do some thinking, and a fair lot of reading. I travel, I observe, I compare.
Among other things I observe that our English system of education
is all wrong.

We ought to return to that old Camp-and-Court ideal."

"All wrong?" queried the bishop.

"Take a case like that young fellow Denis. What is a child of his age doing at a University?
No. If I had a son--but I am boring you."

"I have not been bored since I was twenty."

"I wish I could say the same of myself. I grow more intolerant of fools as the years roll on.
If I had a son, I was saying, I would take him from school at the
age of fourteen, not a moment later, and put him for two years in
a commercial house.

Wake him up; make an English citizen of him. Teach him how to deal with men as men, to write
a straightforward business letter, manage his own money and gain some respect for those industrial
movements which control the world. Next, two years in some wilder part of the world, where his
own countrymen and equals by birth are settled under primitive conditions, and have formed their rough
codes of society. The intercourse with such people would be a capital invested for life. The
next two years should be spent in the great towns of Europe, in order to remove awkwardness
of manner, prejudices of race and feeling, and to get the outward
forms of a European citizen.

All this would sharpen his wits, give him more interest in life, more keys to knowledge. It
would widen his horizon. Then, and not a minute sooner, to the University, where he would go not
as a child but a man capable of enjoying its real advantages, attend
lectures with profit, acquire manners instead of mannerisms and a
University tone instead of a University taint. What do you think?"

"It
sounds a trifle revolutionary," commented the bishop, with a smile.
"But it appeals to me. Education is a matter than lies very near my
heart. Those they sent to Portland and Boston during Christmas week
under the name of Mitchella Jars, and Christmas Bouquets. The jars, which were globular in
shape and which ranged from a quart in capacity up to three and four quarts, cost from fifteen
to thirty-five cents apiece. When filled with mitchella vines, they brought from a dollar and
a quarter to two dollars.

On the day above referred to they set out to gather more vines, and they told the people at
home that they were going to "Dunham's open"--an old clearing beyond our farther pasture, where
once a settler named Dunham had begun to clear a farm. The place was nearly two miles from
the old Squire's, and as the girls did not expect to get home until four o'clock, they took
their luncheon with them.

They hoped to get enough mitchella at the "open" to fill fifteen jars, and so took two bushel
baskets. Four or five inches of hard-frozen snow was on the ground; but in the shelter of the
young pine and fir thickets that were now encroaching on the borders of the "open" the "cradle
knolls" were partly bare.

However, they found less mitchella at Dunham's open than they had hoped. After going completely
round the borders of the clearing they had gathered only half a basketful. Kate then proposed
that they should go on to another opening at Adger's lumber camp, on a brook near the foot
of Stoss Pond. She had been there the winter before with Theodora, and both of them remembered
having seen mitchella growing there.

The old lumber road was not hard to follow, and they reached the camp in a little less than
an hour. They found several plats of mitchella, and began industriously to gather the vine.

They had such a good time at their work that they almost forgot their luncheon. When at last
they opened the pasteboard box in which it was packed, they found the sandwiches and the mince
pie frozen hard. Kate suggested that they go down to the lumber camp and kindle a fire.

"There's a stove in it that the loggers left three years ago," she said. "We'll make a fire
and thaw our lunch."

"We have no matches!" Ellen exclaimed, when they reached the camp.

Inside the old cabin, however, they found three or four matches in a little tin box that was
nailed to a log behind the stovepipe. Hunters had occupied the camp not long before; but they
had left scarcely a sliver of anything dry or combustible inside it; they had even whittled
and shaved the old bunk beam and plank table in order to get kindlings. After a glance round,
Kate went out to gather dry brush along the brook.

Running on a little way, she picked up dry twigs here and there. At last, by a clump of white
birches, she found a fallen spruce. As she was breaking off some of the twigs a strange noise
caused her to pause suddenly. It was, indeed, an odd sound--not a snarl or a growl, or yet
a bark like that of a dog, but a querulous low "yapping." At the same instant she heard the
snow crust break, as if an animal were approaching through the thicket of young firs.

More curious than frightened, Kate listened intently. A moment later she saw a large gray fox
emerge from among the firs and come toward her. Supposing that it had not seen or scented her,
and thinking to frighten it, she cried out suddenly, "Hi, Mr. Fox!"

To her surprise the fox, instead of bounding away, came directly toward her, and now she saw
that its head moved to and fro as it ran, and that clots of froth were dropping from its jaws. The
ordinary club-group had, as usual, installed themselves in the most comfortable chairs on the
balcony. They were boozing steadily, like gentlemen, and having no end of fun with the poor little
Norwegian professor and his miscalculations. As she drew near the cabin,
she called to the other girls to open the door. They heard her cries, and Ellen flung the door
open. As Kate darted into the room, she cried, "Shut it, quick!"

Startled, the other two girls slammed the door shut, and hastily set the heavy old camp table
against it.

"It's only a fox!" Kate cried. "But it has gone mad, I think. I was afraid it would bite me."

