I felt certain the enemy would fight at Five Forks--he had to--so, while we were getting up
to his intrenchments, I decided on my plan of battle.  This was to attack his whole front with
Merritt's two cavalry divisions, make a feint of turning his right flank, and with the Fifth
Corps assail his left.  As the Fifth Corps moved into action, its right flank was to be covered
by Mackenzie's cavalry, thus entirely cutting off Pickett's troops from communication with
Lee's right flank, which rested near the Butler house at the junction of the Claiborne and
White Oaks roads.  In execution of this plan, Merritt worked his men close in toward the intrenchments,
and while he was thus engaged, I ordered Warren to bring up the Fifth Corps, sending the order
by my engineer officer, Captain Gillespie, who had reconnoitred the ground in the neighborhood
of Gravelly Run Church, where the infantry was to form for attack.

Gillespie delivered the order about 1 o'clock, and when the corps was put in motion, General
Warren joined me at the front.  Before he came, I had received, through Colonel Babcock, authority
from General Grant to relieve him, but I did not wish to do it, particularly on the eve of
battle; so, saying nothing at all about the message brought me, I entered at once on the plan
for defeating Pickett, telling Warren how the enemy was posted, explaining with considerable
detail, and concluding by stating that I wished his troops to be formed on the Gravelly Church
road, near its junction with the White Oak road, with two divisions to the front, aligned obliquely
to the White Oak road, and one in reserve, opposite the centre of these two.

General Warren seemed to understand me clearly, and then left to join his command, while I
turned my attention to the cavalry, instructing Merritt to begin by making demonstrations as
though to turn the enemy's right, and to assault the front of the works with his dismounted
cavalry as soon as Warren became engaged.  Afterward I rode around to Gravelly Run Church,
and found the head of Warren's column just appearing, while he was sitting under a tree making
a rough sketch of the ground.  I was disappointed that more of the corps was not already up,
and as the precious minutes went by without any apparent effort to hurry the troops on to the
field, this disappointment grew into disgust. The old soldier stood erect, and put his hand
to his cap.

"God bless you! Mr. Delme. I have served under many officers, but never under a kinder. May
the Almighty bless you, Sir, in all your wanderings."

The soldier turned away--one large drop burst o'er the lid, and trickled down his sun-burnt cheek.

With
the back of his hand, he brushed it off indignantly.

His converse may be rough--his manner rude--his hand ever ready for quarrel;--but, believe us!
ye who deem the soldier beneath his fellow-men,--that the life of change--of chance--of hardship--and
of danger--which is his, freezes not the kindlier emotions of the soul, if it sweep away its
sicklier refinements. Beneath the red vest, beat hearts as warm and true, as ever throbbed beneath
operative apron, or swelled under softest robe of ermine.

George was moved by the man's evidently sincere grief. He reached the bottom of the stairs. The
company to which he belonged was drawn up in the court yard.

In front of it, the four tallest men supported a chair, and almost before George Delme was aware
of their purpose, bore him to it, and lifted him on their shoulders, amidst the huzzas of their
comrades. The band, too, which had voluntarily attended, now struck up the march which George
delighted to hear; and, followed by his company, he was carried triumphantly towards the mole.

George's
heart was full.

Sir Henry felt deeply interested in the scene; and poor Acme leant
on his arm, and wept with joy.

Yes! there are moments in life, and this was one, when the approval
of our inferiors awakens a degree of pride and mental satisfaction,
that no panegyric of our superiors, no expressions of esteem from
our equals, could have ever called forth. Such approval meets us,
as the spontaneous effusion of hearts that have looked up to ours,
and have not been deceived.

This pride was it that flushed George's
cheek, and illumed with brightness his swimming eye. He was thus carried
till he arrived at the spot where his boat should have been. It was
already, with Thompson and their baggage, half way towards the vessel.
In its place was the regimental gig, manned by George's best friends.
Its steersman was Colonel Vavasour, drest in the fanciful aquatic
costume his regiment had adopted.

Trifling as this may appear, this
act of his Colonel, seemed to George the very highest compliment that
had ever been paid him.

George Delme turned to his company, and with
choking voice thanked them for this last mark of attention.  Ayres did his
part well, and to the letter, bringing his division square up to the front of the return near
the angle; but Crawford did not wheel to the left, as was intended.  On the contrary, on receiving
fire from Mumford's cavalry, Crawford swerved to the right and moved north from the return,
thus isolating his division from Ayres; and Griffin, uncertain of the enemy's position, naturally
followed Crawford.

The deflection of this division on a line of march which finally brought it out on the Ford
road near C. Young's house, frustrated the purpose I had in mind when ordering the attack,
and caused a gap between Ayres and Crawford, of which the enemy quickly took advantage, and
succeeded in throwing a part of Ayres's division into confusion.  At this juncture I sent word
to General Warren to have Crawford recalled; for the direction he was following was not only
a mistaken one, but, in case the assault at the return failed, he ran great risk of capture.
Warren could not be found, so I then sent for Griffin--first by Colonel Newhall, and then by
Colonel Sherman--to come to the aid of Ayres, who was now contending alone with that part of
the enemy's infantry at the return.  By this time Griffin had observed and appreciated Crawford's
mistake, however, and when the staff-officers reached him, was already faced to the left; so,
marching across Crawford's rear, he quickly joined Ayres, who meanwhile had rallied his troops
and carried the return.

When Ayres's division went over the flank of the enemy's works, Devin's division of cavalry,
which had been assaulting the front, went over in company with it; and hardly halting to reform,
the intermingling infantry and dismounted cavalry swept down inside the intrenchments, pushing
to and beyond Five Forks, capturing thousands of prisoners.  The only stand the enemy tried
to make was when he attempted to form near the Ford road.  Griffin pressed him so hard there,
however, that he had to give way in short order, and many of his men, with three pieces of
artillery, fell into the hands of Crawford while on his circuitous march.

The right of Custer's division gained a foothold on the enemy's works simultaneously with Devin's,
but on the extreme left Custer had a very severe combat with W. H. F. Lee's cavalry, as well
as with Corse's and Terry's infantry.  Attacking Terry and Corse with Pennington's brigade
dismounted, he assailed Lee's cavalry with his other two brigades mounted, but Lee held on
so obstinately that Custer gained but little ground till our troops, advancing behind the works,
drove Corse and Terry out.  Then Lee made no further stand except at the west side of the Gillian
field, where, assisted by Corse's brigade, he endeavored to cover the retreat, but just before
dark Custer, in concert with some Fifth Corps regiments under Colonel Richardson, drove ihe
last of the enemy westward on the White Oak road.

Our success was unqualified; we had overthrown Pickett, taken six guns, thirteen battle-flags,
and nearly six thousand prisoners.  When the battle was practically over, I turned to consider
my position with reference to the main Confederate army.  My troops, though victorious, were
isolated from the Army of the Potomac, for on the 31st of March the extreme left of that army
had been thrown back nearly to the Boydton plank-road, and hence there was nothing to prevent
the enemy's issuing from his trenches at the intersection of the White Oak and Claiborne roads
and marching directly on my rear. I surmised that he might do this that night or early next
morning. It was therefore necessary to protect myself in this critical situation, and General
Warren having sorely disappointed me, both in the moving of his corps and in its management
during the battle, I felt that he was not the man to rely upon under such circumstances, and
deeming that it was to the best interest of the service as well as but just to myself, I relieved
him, ordering him to report to General Grant.

I then put Griffin in command of the Fifth Corps, and directed him to withdraw from the pursuit
as quickly as he could after following the enemy a short distance, and form in line of battle
near Gravelly Run Church, at right angles with the White Oak road, with Ayres and Crawford
facing toward the enemy at the junction of the White Oak and Claiborne roads, leaving Bartlett,
now commanding Griffin's division, near the Ford road.  Mackenzie also was left on the Ford
road at the crossing of Hatcher's Run, Merritt going into camp on the Widow Gillian's plantation.
As I had been obliged to keep Crook's division along Stony Creek throughout the day, it had
taken no active part in the battle.

Years after the war, in 1879, a Court of Inquiry was given General Warren in relation to his
conduct on the day of the battle.  He assumed that the delay in not granting his request for
an inquiry, which was first made at the close of the war, was due to opposition on my part.
In this he was in error; I never opposed the ordering of the Court, but when it was finally
decided to convene it I naturally asked to be represented by counsel, for the authorization
of the Inquiry was so peculiarly phrased that it made me practically a respondent.

"NEW YORK CITY, May 3, 1880

"MAJOR-GENERAL W. S. HANCOCK, U. S. A. "President Court of Inquiry, Governor's Island.

"Sir: Since my arrival in this city, under a subpoena to appear and testify before the Court
of which you are president, I have been indirectly and unofficially informed that the Court
some time ago forwarded an invitation to me (which has not been received) to appear personally
or by counsel, in order to aid it in obtaining a knowledge as to the facts concerning the movements
terminating in the battle of 'Five Forks,' with reference to the direct subjects of its inquiry.
Any invitation of this character I should always and do consider it incumbent on me to accede
to, and do everything in my power in furtherance of the specific purposes for which courts
of inquiry are by law instituted.

"The order convening the Court (a copy of which was not received by me at my division headquarters
until two days after the time appointed for the Court to assemble) contemplates an inquiry
based on the application of Lieutenant Colonel G. K. Warren, Corps of Engineers, as to his
conduct while major-general commanding the Fifth Army Corps, under my command, in reference
to accusations or imputations assumed in the order to have been made against him, and I understand
through the daily press that my official report of the battle of Five Forks has been submitted
by him as a basis of inquiry.

"If it is proposed to inquire, either directly or indirectly, as to any action of mine so far
as the commanding general Fifth Army Corps was concerned, or my motives for such action, I
desire to be specifically informed wherein such action or transaction is alleged to contain
an accusation or imputation to become a subject of inquiry, so that, knowing what issues are
raised, I may intelligently aid the Court in arriving at the facts.

"It is a long time since the battle of Five Forks was fought, and during the time that has
elapsed the official reports of that battle have been received and acknowledged by the Government;
but now, when the memory of events has in many instances grown dim, and three of the principal
actors on that field are dead--Generals Griffin, Custer, and Devin, whose testimony would have
been valuable--an investigation is ordered which might perhaps do injustice unless the facts
pertinent to the issues are fully developed.

"My duties are such that it will not be convenient for me to be present continuously during
the sessions of the Court.  In order, however, that everything may be laid before it in my
power pertinent to such specific issues as are legally raised, I beg leave to introduce Major
Asa Bird Gardner as my counsel.

"Very respectfully,

"P. H. SHERIDAN, Lieut.-General."

Briefly stated, in my report of the battle of Five Forks there were four imputations concerning
General Warren.  The first implied that Warren failed to reach me on the 1st of April, when
I had reason to expect him; the second, that the tactical handling of his corps was unskillful;
the third, that he did not exert himself to get his corps up to Gravelly Run Church; and the
fourth, that when portions of his line gave way he did not exert himself to restore confidence
to his troops.  The Court found against him on the first and second counts, and for him on
the third and fourth.  This finding was unsatisfactory to General Warren, for he hoped to obtain
such an unequivocal recognition of his services as to cast discredit on my motives for relieving
him.  These were prompted by the conditions alone--by the conduct of General Warren as described,
and my consequent lack of confidence in him.

It will be remembered that in my conversation with General Grant on the 30th, relative to the
suspension of operations because of the mud, I asked him to let me have the Sixth Corps to
help me in breaking in on the enemy's right, but that it could not be sent me; it will be recalled
also that the Fifth Corps was afterward tendered and declined.  From these facts it has been
alleged that I was prejudiced against General Warren, but this is not true.  As we had never
been thrown much together I knew but little of him.  I had no personal objection to him, and
certainly could have none to his corps.  I was expected to do an extremely dangerous piece
of work, and knowing the Sixth Corps well--my cavalry having campaigned with it so successfully
in the Shenandoah Valley, I naturally preferred it, and declined the Fifth for no other reason.
But the Sixth could not be given, and the turn of events finally brought me the Fifth after
my cavalry, under the most trying difficulties, had drawn the enemy from his works, and into
such a position as to permit the realization of General Grant's hope to break up with my force
Lee's right flank.  Pickett's isolation offered an opportunity which we could not afford to
neglect, and the destruction of his command would fill the measure of General Grant's expectations
as well as meet my own desires.  The occasion was not an ordinary one, and as I thought that
Warren had not risen to its demand in the battle, I deemed it injudicious and unsafe under
the critical conditions existing to retain him longer.  That I was justified in this is plain
to all who are disposed to be fair-minded, so with the following extract from General Sherman's
review of the proceedings of the Warren Court, and with which I am convinced the judgment of
history will accord, I leave the subject:

"....It would be an unsafe and dangerous rule to hold the commander of an army in battle to
a technical adherence to any rule of conduct for managing his command.  He is responsible for
results, and holds the lives and reputations of every officer and soldier under his orders
as subordinate to the great end--victory.  The most important events are usually compressed
into an hour, a minute, and he cannot stop to analyze his reasons.  He must act on the impulse,
the conviction, of the instant, and should be sustained in his conclusions, if not manifestly
unjust.  The power to command men, and give vehement impulse to their joint action, is something
which cannot be defined by words, but it is plain and manifest in battles, and whoever commands
an army in chief must choose his subordinates by reason of qualities which can alone be tested
in actual conflict.

"No one has questioned the patriotism, integrity, and great intelligence of General Warren.
These are attested by a long record of most excellent service, but in the clash of arms at
and near Five Forks, March 31 and April 1, 1865, his personal activity fell short of the standard
fixed by General Sheridan, on whom alone rested the great responsibility for that and succeeding
days.

"My conclusion is that General Sheridan was perfectly justified in his action in this case,
and he must be fully and entirely sustained if the United States expects great victories by
her arms in the future."

CHAPTER VII.

RESULT OF THE BATTLE OF FIVE FORKS--RETREAT OF LEE--AN INTERCEPTED DESPATCH--AT AMELIA COURT
HOUSE--BATTLE OF SAILOR'S CREEK--THE CONFEDERATES' STUBBORN RESISTANCE--A COMPLETE VICTORY--IMPORTANCE
OF THE BATTLE.

When the news of the battle at Five Forks reached General Grant, he realized that the decisive
character of our victory would necessitate the immediate abandonment of Richmond and Petersburg
by the enemy; and fearing that Lee would escape without further injury, he issued orders, the
propriety of which must be settled by history, to assault next morning the whole intrenched
line.  But Lee could not retreat at once.  He had not anticipated dissster at Five Forks, and
hence was unprepared to withdraw on the moment; and the necessity of getting off his trains
and munitions of war, as well as being obliged to cover the flight of the Confederate Government,
compelled him to hold on to Richmond and Petersburg till the afternoon of the 2d, though before
that Parke, Ord, and Wright had carried his outer intrenchments at several points, thus materially
shortening the line of investment.

The night of the 1st of April, General Humphreys's corps--the Second --had extended its left
toward the White Oak road, and early next morning, under instructions from General Grant, Miles's
division of that corps reported to me, and supporting him with Ayres's and Crawford's divisions
of the Fifth Corps, I then directed him to advance toward Petersburg and attack the enemy's
works at the intersection of the Claiborne and White Oak roads.

Such of the enemy as were still in the works Miles easily forced across Hatcher's Run, in the
direction of Sutherland's depot, but the Confederates promptly took up a position north of
the little stream, and Miles being anxious to attack, I gave him leave, but just at this time
General Humphreys came up with a request to me from General Meade to return Miles.  On this
request I relinquished command of the division, when, supported by the Fifth Corps it could
have broken in the enemy's right at a vital point; and I have always since regretted that I
did so, for the message Humphreys conveyed was without authority from General Grant, by whom
Miles had been sent to me, but thinking good feeling a desideratum just then, and wishing to
avoid wrangles, I faced the Fifth Corps about and marched it down to Five Forks, and out the
Ford road to the crossing of Hatcher's Run.  After we had gone, General Grant, intending this
quarter of the field to be under my control, ordered Humphreys with his other two divisions
to move to the right, in toward Petersburg.  This left Miles entirely unsupported, and his
gallant attack made soon after was unsuccessful at first, but about 3 o'clock in the afternoon
he carried the point which covered the retreat from Petersburg and Richmond.

Merritt had been sent westward, meanwhile, in the direction of Ford's Station, to break the
enemy's horse which had been collecting to the north of Hatcher's Run.  Meeting, with but little
opposition, Merritt drove this cavalry force in a northerly direction toward Scott's Corners,
while the Fifth Corps was pushed toward Sutherland's depot, in the hope of coming in on the
rear of the force that was confronting Miles when I left him.  Crawford and Merritt engaged
the enemy lightly just before night, but his main column, retreating along the river road south
of the Appomattox, had got across Namozine Creek, and the darkness prevented our doing more
than to pick up some stragglers.  The next morning the pursuit was resumed, the cavalry again
in advance, the Fifth Corps keeping up with it all the while, and as we pressed our adversaries
hundreds and hundreds of prisoners, armed and unarmed, fell into our hands, together with many
wagons and five pieces of artillery.  At Deep Creek the rearguard turned on us, and a severe
skirmish took place.  Merritt, finding the enemy very strong, was directed to await the arrival
of Crook and for the rear division of the Fifth Corps; but by the time they reached the creek,
darkness had again come to protect the Confederates, and we had to be content with meagre results
at that point.

From the beginning it was apparent that Lee, in his retreat, was making for Amelia Court House,
where his columns north and south of the Appomattox River could join, and where, no doubt,
he expected to meet supplies, so Crook was ordered to march early on April 4 to strike the
Danville railroad, between Jettersville and Burkeville, and then move south along the railroad
toward Jettersville, Merritt to move toward Amelia Court House, and the Fifth Corps to Jettersville
itself.

The Fifth Corps got to Jettersville about 5 in the afternoon, and I immediately intrenched
it across the Burkeville road with the determination to stay there till the main army could
come up, for I hoped we could force Lee to surrender at Amelia Court House, since a firm hold
on Jettersville would cut him off from his line of retreat toward Burkeville.

Accompanied only by my escort--the First United States Cavalry, about two hundred strong--I
reached Jettersville some little time before the Fifth Corps, and having nothing else at hand
I at once deployed this handful of men to cover the crossroads till the arrival of the corps.
Just as the troopers were deploying, a man on a mule, heading for Burkeville, rode into my
pickets.  He was arrested, of course, and being searched there was found in his boots this
telegram in duplicate, signed by Lee's Commissary General.

"The army is at Amelia Court House, short of provisions.  Send 300,000 rations quickly to Burkeville
Junction." One copy was addressed to the supply department at Danville, and the other to that
at Lynchburg.  I surmised that the telegraph lines north of Burkeville had been broken by Crook
after the despatches were written, which would account for their being transmitted by messenger.
There was thus revealed not only the important fact that Lee was concentrating at Amelia Court
House, but also a trustworthy basis for estimating his troops, so I sent word to Crook to strike
up the railroad toward me, and to Merritt--who, as I have said, had followed on the heels of
the enemy--to leave Mackenzie there and himself close in on Jettersville.  Staff-officers were
also despatched to hurry up Griffin with the Fifth Corps, and his tired men redoubled their
strides.

My troops too were hard up for rations, for in the pursuit we could not wait for our trains,
so I concluded to secure if possible these provisions intended for Lee.  To this end I directed
Young to send four of his best scouts to Burkeville Junction.  There they were to separate,
two taking the railroad toward Lynchburg and two toward Danville, and as soon as a telegraph
station was reached the telegram was to be transmitted as it had been written and the provisions
thus hurried forward. 

Julia's sisters had a group of laughing beaux round their chairs,--Mrs. Glenallan and Mrs. Vernon
were discussing bygone days,--and no one seemed disposed to leave the pavilion. Sir Henry,
in his silent mood, was glad to escape from the party; and engaging Julia in a search for Emily,
made his way to the crowded ball room. He there found his sister spinning round with Clarendon to one
of Strauss's waltzes; and Sir Henry and his partner seated themselves on one of the benches,
watching the smiling faces as they whirled past them.

It was a melancholy thought to Delme, how soon Emily's brow would be clouded, were he to breathe
one word of George's illness and despondency. The waltz concluded, a quadrille was quickly formed.
Miss Vernon declined dancing, and they rose to join Emily and Clarendon; but the lovers were flown.
The ball room became still more thronged; and Delme was glad to turn once more towards the pavilion.
The party they had left there had also vanished, and strangers usurped their seats. In this
dilemma, Miss Vernon proposed seeking their party in the long walk. They took one or two turns
down this, but saw not those for whom they were in search.

"If you do not dislike leaving this busy scene," said Sir Henry, "I think we shall have a better
chance of meeting Emily and Clarendon, if we turn down one of these winding paths."

They turned to their left, and walked on. How beautiful was that night! Its calm tranquillity,
as they receded from the giddy throng, could not but subdue them.

We have said that the moon was not riding the heavens in her full robe of majesty, nor was there
a sombre darkness. The purple vault was spangled thick with stars; and there reigned that
dubious, glimmering light, by which you can note a face, but not mark its blush. The walks wound
fantastically. They were lit by festoons of coloured lamps, attached to the neighbouring trees,
so as to resemble the pendent grape-clusters, that the traveller meets with just previous to
the Bolognese vintage.

Occasionally, a path would be encountered where no light met the
eye save that of the prying stars overhead.

In the distant vista, might be seen a part of the crowded promenade,
where music held its court; whilst at intervals, a voice's swell or
guitar's tinkle would be borne on the ear.

There was the hum of men, too--the laugh of the idlers without the sanctum, as they indulged
in the delights of the mischievous fire-ball--and the sudden whizz, followed by an upward
glare of light, as a rocket shot into the air. But the hour, and the nameless feeling that hour
invoked, brought with them a subduing influence, which overpowered these intruding sounds, attuning
the heart to love and praise. They paced the walk in mutual and embarrassed silence.


General Grant, who on the 5th was accompanying General Ord's column toward Burkeville Junction,
did not receive this intelligence till nearly nightfall, when within about ten miles of the
Junction.  He set out for Jettersville immediately, but did not reach us till near midnight,
too late of course to do anything that night.  Taking me with him, we went over to see Meade,
whom he then directed to advance early in the morning on Amelia Court House.  In this interview
Grant also stated that the orders Meade had already issued would permit Lee's escape, and therefore
must be changed, for it was not the aim only to follow the enemy, but to get ahead of him,
remarking during the conversation that, "he had no doubt Lee was moving right then." On this
same occasion Meade expressed a desire to have in the proposed attack all the troops of the
Army of the Potomac under his own command, and asked for the return of the Fifth Corps. He was
gazetted to a cornetcy; and entered life at an age when, if the manlier
traits are ready to be developed, the worthless ones are equally sure
to unfold themselves.

Few of us that have not found the first draught of life intoxicate!
 Satisfied that this would be the case, I did not permit the cavalry to participate
in Meade's useless advance, but shifted it out toward the left to the road running from Deatonsville
to Rice's station, Crook leading and Merritt close up.  Before long the enemy's trains were
discovered on this road, but Crook could make but little impression on them, they were so strongly
guarded; so, leaving Stagg's brigade and Miller's battery about three miles southwest of Deatonsville--where
the road forks, with a branch leading north toward the Appomattox--to harass the retreating
column and find a vulnerable point, I again shifted the rest of the cavalry toward the left,
across-country, but still keeping parallel to the enemy's line of march.

Just after crossing Sailor's Greek, a favorable opportunity offering, both Merritt and Crook
attacked vigorously, gained the Rice's Station road, destroyed several hundred wagons, made
many prisoners, and captured sixteen pieces of artillery.  This was important, but more valuable
still was the fact that we were astride the enemy's line of retreat, and had cut off from joining
Longstreet, waiting at Rice's Station, a corps of Confederate infantry under General Ewell,
composed of Anderson's, Kershaw's, and Custis Lee's divisions. Stagg's brigade and Miller's
battery, which, as I have said, had been left at the forks of the Deatonsville road, had meanwhile
broken in between the rear of Ewell's column and the head of Gordon's, forcing Gordon to abandon
his march for Rice's Station, and to take the right-hand road at the forks, on which he was
pursued by General Humphreys. 

As he drew nearer the voice, he was guided by the lanthorn brought by George's companion; and
towards this he proceeded, almost overpowered by the horrible stench of the charnel house, As
he drew near enough to distinguish objects, what a scene presented itself!
  The capture of Ewell, with six of his generals and most of his troops, crowned
our success, but the fight was so overshadowed by the stirring events of the surrender three
days later, that the battle has never been accorded the prominence it deserves.

