At this time Ole, the son of Siward and of Harald's sister, came to Denmark from the land of
Norway in the desire to see his uncle. They are free from invidious jealousies and the blight
of avarice toward each other, free from doubt of the rectitude of their daughters and relieved
from solicitude that the future of their sons, if they remain in the valley, will be influenced
by dissipation or dishonesty--a people who find in the changes of the weather and its effect upon
crops their chief cause for worry.

Through the gray dawn the farmer looks up to the skies for his weather report for the day. As
he works he watches the clouds scurrying across the mountaintops, and when he notes they are banking
against the unseen summit of the Blue Mountains that rises to the east, he knows that rain is
soon to come. Some local unknown bard, watching those banking clouds, has left a lyric to his
people, and I heard a gray-bearded mountaineer singing it as he predicted the break of a summer
drought:

"The sun rose bright But hid its head soon, 'Twill rain a-fore night Ef hit don't rain a-fore noon."

With
their homes back in the mountains nearly fifty miles from the railway, with a journey before
them over rocky roads and up mountainsides to the other communities of Fentress county, the people
of Pall Mall live in the communion and democracy of one great family. Children call old men by
their Christian names. In it is not the slightest element of disrespect, and it is instead
an appreciated propriety which the old men recall as the custom of their boyhood. Rev. R.
C. Pile, pastor of the Church of Christ in Christian Union, the church of the valley, is "Rosier"
to everyone. All worship together in the same church; all toil alike in the fields. In the predial,
peaceful routine of their days there is a positive similarity. A
farmer will ride direct to the cornfield or the meadow of a neighbor,
knowing the neighbor will be found at work there. And, as through
the gray dawn of the day they look up to the skies, the wish of one
for rain will be found to be the community desire. Out of this he turned many horses, and was minded
to put in his own, when a certain Tok, a servant of Gunn, angry that a stranger should wax
so insolent, attacked him fiercely; but Ole foiled his assailant by simply opposing his shield.
Thinking it a shame to slay the fellow with the sword, he seized him, shattered him limb by
limb, and flung him across into the house whence he had issued in his haste. This insult quickly
aroused Gunn and Grim: they ran out by different side-doors, and charged Ole both at once,
despising his age and strength. He wounded them fatally; and, when their bodily powers were
quite spent, Grim, who could scarce muster a final gasp, and whose force was almost utterly
gone, with his last pants composed this song:

"Though we be weak in frame, and the loss of blood has drained our strength; since the life-breath,
now drawn out by my wound, scarce quivers softly in my pierced breast:

"I counsel that we should make the battle of our last hour glorious with dauntless deeds, that
none may say that a combat has anywhere been bravelier waged or harder fought;

"And that our wild strife while we bore arms may, when our weary flesh has found rest in the
tomb, win us the wage of immortal fame.

"Let our first stroke crush the shoulder-blades of the foe, let our steel cut off both his
hands; so that, when Stygian Pluto has taken us, a like doom may fall on Ole also, and a common
death tremble over three, and one urn cover the ashes of three."

Here Grim ended. But his father, rivalling his indomitable spirit, and wishing to give some
exhortation in answer to his son's valiant speech, thus began:

"What though our veins be wholly bloodless, and in our frail body the life be brief, yet our
last fight be so strong and strenuous that it suffer not the praise of us to be brief also.

"Therefore aim the javelin first at the shoulders and arms of the foe, so that the work of
his hands may be weakened; and thus when we are gone three shall receive a common sepulchre,
and one urn alike for three shall cover our united dust."

When he had said this, both of them, resting on their knees (for the approach of death had
drained their strength), made a desperate effort to fight Ole hand to hand, in order that,
before they perished, they might slay their enemy also; counting death as nothing if only they
might envelope their slayer in a common fall. Ole slew one of them with his sword, the other
with his hound. But even he gained no bloodless victory; for though he had been hitherto unscathed,
now at last he received a wound in front. His dog diligently licked him over, and he regained
his bodily strength: and soon, to publish sure news of his victory, he hung the bodies of the
robbers upon gibbets in wide view. Moreover, he took the stronghold, and put in secret keeping
all the booty he found there, in reserve for future use.

At this time the arrogant wantonness of the brothers Skate and Hiale waxed so high that they
would take virgins of notable beauty from their parents and ravish them. Hence it came about
that they formed the purpose of seizing Esa, the daughter of Olaf, prince of the Werms; and
bade her father, if he would not have her serve the passion of a stranger, fight either in
person, or by some deputy, in defence of his child. When Ole had news of this, he rejoiced
in the chance of a battle, and borrowing the attire of a peasant, went to the dwelling of Olaf.
He received one of the lowest places at table; and when he saw the household of the king in
sorrow, he called the king's son closer to him, and asked why they all wore so lamentable a
face. The other answered, that unless someone quickly interposed to protect them, his sister's
chastity would soon be outraged by some ferocious champions. Ole next asked him what reward
would be received by the man who devoted his life for the maiden. Olaf, on his son asking him
about this matter, said that his daughter should go to the man who fought for her: and these
words, more than anything, made Ole long to encounter the danger.

Now the maiden was wont to go from one guest to another in order to scan their faces narrowly,
holding out a light that she might have a surer view of the dress and character of those who
were entertained. It is also believed that she divined their lineage from the lines and features
of the face, and could discern any man's birth by sheer shrewdness of vision. When she stood
and fixed the scrutiny of her gaze upon Olaf, she was stricken with the strange awfulness of
his eyes, and fell almost lifeless. But when her strength came slowly back, and her breath
went and came more freely, she again tried to look at the young man, but suddenly slipped and
fell forward, as though distraught. A third time also she strove to lift her closed and downcast
gaze, but suddenly tottered and fell, unable not only to move her eyes, but even to control
her feet; so much can strength be palsied by amazement. When Olaf saw it, he asked her why
she had fallen so often. She averred that she was stricken by the savage gaze of the guest;
that he was born of kings; and she declared that if he could baulk the will of the ravishers,
he was well worthy of her arms. Then all of them asked Ole, who was keeping his face muffled
in a hat, to fling off his covering, and let them see something by which to learn his features.
Then, bidding them all lay aside their grief, and keep their heart far from sorrow, he uncovered
his brow; and he drew the eyes of all upon him in marvel at his great beauty. For his locks
were golden and the hair of his head was radiant; but he kept the lids close over his pupils,
that they might not terrify the beholders.

All were heartened with the hope of better things; the guests seemed to dance and the courtiers
to leap for joy; the deepest melancholy seemed to be scattered by an outburst of cheerfulness.
Thus hope relieved their fears; the banquet wore a new face, and nothing was the same, or like
what it had been before. So the kindly promise of a single guest dispelled the universal terror.
Meanwhile Hiale and Skate came up with ten servants, meaning to carry off the maiden then and
there, and disturbed all the place with their noisy shouts. They called on the king to give
battle, unless he produced his daughter instantly. Ole at once met their frenzy with the promise
to fight, adding the condition that no one should stealthily attack an opponent in the rear,
but should only combat in the battle face to face. Then, with his sword called Logthi, he felled
them all, single-handed--an achievement beyond his years. The ground for the battle was found
on an isle in the middle of a swamp, not far from which is a stead that serves to memorise
this slaughter, bearing the names of the brothers Hiale and Skate together.

So the girl was given him as prize of the combat, and bore him a son Omund. Then he gained
his father-in-law's leave to revisit his father. But when he heard that his country was being
attacked by Thore, with the help of Toste Sacrificer, and Leotar, surnamed.... he went to fight
them, content with a single servant, who was dressed as a woman. When he was near the house
of Thore, he concealed his own and his attendant's swords in hollowed staves. And when he entered
the palace, he disguised his true countenance, and feigned to be a man broken with age. He
said that with Siward he had been king of the beggars, but that he was now in exile, having
been stubbornly driven forth by the hatred of the king's son Ole. Presently many of the courtiers
greeted him with the name of king, and began to kneel and offer him their hands in mockery.
He told them to bear out in deeds what they had done in jest; and, plucking out the swords
which he and his man kept shut in their staves, attacked the king. So some aided Ole, taking
it more as jest than earnest, and would not be false to the loyalty which they mockingly yielded
him; but most of them, breaking their idle vow, took the side of Thore. Thus arose an internecine
and undecided fray. At last Thore was overwhelmed and slain by the arms of his own folk, as
much as by these of his guests; and Leotar, wounded to the death, and judging that his conqueror,
Ole, was as keen in mind as he was valorous in deeds, gave him the name of the Vigorous, and
prophesied that he should perish by the same kind of trick as he had used with Thore; for,
without question he should fall by the treachery of his own house. And, as he spoke, he suddenly
passed away. Thus we can see that the last speech of the dying man expressed by its shrewd
divination the end that should come upon his conqueror.

After these deeds Ole did not go back to his father till he had restored peace to his house.
His father gave him the command of the sea, and he destroyed seventy sea-kings in a naval battle.
The most distinguished among these were Birwil and Hwirwil, Thorwil, Nef and Onef, Redward
(?), Rand and Erand (?). By the honour and glory of this exploit he excited many champions,
whose whole heart's desire was for bravery, to join in alliance with him. He also enrolled
into a bodyguard the wild young warriors who were kindled with a passion for glory. Among these
he received Starkad with the greatest honour, and cherished him with more friendship than profit.
Thus fortified, he checked, by the greatness of his name, the wantonness of the neighbouring
kings, in that he took from them all their forces and all liking and heart for mutual warfare.

After this he went to Harald, who made him commander of the sea; and at last he was transferred
to the service of Ring. At this time one Brun was the sole partner and confidant of all Harald's
councils. To this man both Harald and Ring, whenever they needed a secret messenger, used to
entrust their commissions. This degree of intimacy he obtained because he had been reared and
fostered with them. But Brun, amid the toils of his constant journeys to and fro, was drowned
in a certain river; and Odin, disguised under his name and looks, shook the close union of
the kings by his treacherous embassage; and he sowed strife so guilefully that he engendered
in men, who were bound by friendship and blood, a bitter mutual hate, which seemed unappeasable
except by war. Their dissensions first grew up silently; at last both sides betrayed their
leanings, and their secret malice burst into the light of day. So they declared their feuds,
and seven years passed in collecting the materials of war. Some say that Harald secretly sought
occasions to destroy himself, not being moved by malice or jealousy for the crown, but by a
deliberate and voluntary effort. His old age and his cruelty made him a burden to his subjects;
he preferred the sword to the pangs of disease, and liked better to lay down his life in the
battle-field than in his bed, that he might have an end in harmony with the deeds of his past
life. Thus, to make his death more illustrious, and go to the nether world in a larger company,
he longed to summon many men to share his end; and he therefore of his own will prepared for
war, in order to make food for future slaughter. For these reasons, being seized with as great
a thirst to die himself as to kill others, and wishing the massacre on both sides to be equal,
he furnished both sides with equal resources; but let Ring have a somewhat stronger force,
preferring he should conquer and survive him.

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  A parallel is the Lionel-Lancelot story of children saved by
     being turned into dogs.

BOOK EIGHT.

STARKAD was the first to set in order in Danish speech the history of the Swedish war, a conflict
whereof he was himself a mighty pillar; the said history being rather an oral than a written
tradition. He set forth and arranged the course of this war in the mother tongue according
to the fashion of our country; but I purpose to put it into Latin, and will first recount the
most illustrious princes on either side. For I have felt no desire to include the multitude,
which are even past exact numbering. And my pen shall relate first those on the side of Harald,
and presently those who served under Ring.

Now the most famous of the captains that mustered to Harald are acknowledged to have been Sweyn
and Sambar (Sam?), Ambar and Elli; Rati of Funen, Salgard and Roe (Hrothgar), whom his long
beard distinguished by a nickname. Besides these, Skalk the Scanian, and Alf the son of Agg;
to whom are joined Olwir the Broad, and Gnepie the Old. Besides these there was Gardh, founder
of the town Stang. To these are added the kinsfolk or bound followers of Harald: Blend (Blaeng?),
the dweller in furthest Thule, (1) and Brand, whose surname was Crumb (Bitling?). Allied with
these were Thorguy, with Thorwig, Tatar (Teit), and Hialte. These men voyaged to Leire with
bodies armed for war; but they were also mighty in excellence of wit, and their trained courage
matched their great stature; for they had skill in discharging arrows both from bow and catapult,
and at fighting their foe as they commonly did, man to man; and also at readily stringing together
verse in the speech of their country: so zealously had they trained mind and body alike. Now
out of Leire came Hortar (Hjort) and Borrhy (Borgar or Borgny), and also Belgi and Beigad,
to whom were added Bari and Toli. Now out of the town of Sle, under the captains Hetha (Heid)
and Wisna, with Hakon Cut-cheek came Tummi the Sailmaker. On these captains, who had the bodies
of women, nature bestowed the souls of men. Webiorg was also inspired with the same spirit,
and was attended by Bo (Bui) Bramason and Brat the Jute, thirsting for war. In the same throng
came Orm of England, Ubbe the Frisian, Ari the One-eyed, and Alf Gotar. Next in the count came
Dal the Fat and Duk the Sclav; Wisna, a woman, filled with sternness, and a skilled warrior,
was guarded by a band of Sclavs: her chief followers were Barri and Gnizli. But the rest of
the same company had their bodies covered by little shields, and used very long swords and
targets of skiey hue, which, in time of war, they either cast behind their backs or gave over
to the baggage-bearers; while they cast away all protection to their breasts, and exposed their
bodies to every peril, offering battle with drawn swords. The most illustrious of these were
Tolkar and Ymi. After these, Toki of the province of Wohin was conspicuous together with Otrit
surnamed the Young. Hetha, guarded by a retinue of very active men, brought an armed company
to the war, the chiefs of whom were Grim and Grenzli; next to whom are named Geir the Livonian,
Hame also and Hunger, Humbli and Biari, bravest of the princes. These men often fought duels
successfully, and won famous victories far and wide.

The maidens I have named, in fighting as well as courteous array, led their land-forces to
the battle-field. Thus the Danish army mustered company by company. There were seven kings,
equal in spirit but differing in allegiance, some defending Harald, and some Ring. Moreover,
the following went to the side of Harald: Homi and Hosathul (Eysothul?), Him...., Hastin and
Hythin (Hedin) the Slight, also Dahar (Dag), named Grenski, and Harald Olafsson also. The rule
is that they shall taste no flesh whatever all the year round; and in their great fast they
not only abstain from butter, and every kind of animal food and fish, but also from oil, and
live four days in the week on bread and boiled vegetables, of which one small dish is all
their dinner. They obtain their vegetables from a pleasant garden adjoining the building, into
which there is a subterraneous passage; the soil is stony, but in this climate, wherever water
is in plenty, the very rocks will produce vegetation. The fruit is of the finest quality;
oranges, lemons, almonds, mulberries, apricots, peaches, pears, apples, olives, Nebek trees,
and a few cypresses overshade the beds in which melons, beans, lettuces, onions, cucumbers, and
all sorts of

[p.550] culinary and sweet-scented herbs are sown. The garden, however, is very seldom visited
by the monks, except by the few whose business it is to keep it in order; for although surrounded
by high walls, it is not inaccessible to the Bedouins, who for the
three last years have been the sole gatherers of the fruits, leaving
the vegetables only for the monks, who have thus been obliged to repurchase
their own fruit from the pilferers, or to buy it in other parts of
the peninsula.

The excellent air of the convent, and the simple fare of the inhabitants, render diseases rare.
Many of the monks are very old men, in the full possession of their mental and bodily faculties.
They have all taken to some profession, a mode of rendering themselves independent of Egypt,
which was practised here even when the three hundred private chambers were occupied, which are
now empty, though still ready for the accommodation of pious settlers. Among the twenty-three
monks who now remain, there is a cook, a distiller, a baker, a shoemaker, a tailor, a carpenter,
a smith, a mason, a gardener, a maker of candles, &c. &c. each of these has his work-shop,
in the worn-out and rusty utensils of which are still to be seen the traces of the former
riches and industry of the establishment. The rooms in which the provisions are kept are vaulted
and built of granite with great solidity; each kind of provision has its purveyor. The bake-house and
distillery are still kept up upon a large scale. The best bread is of the finest quality;
but a second and third sort is made for the Bedouins who are fed
by the convent.

In the distillery they make brandy from dates, which is the only solace these recluses enjoy,
and in this they are permitted to indulge even during the fasts.

Most of the monks are natives of the Greek islands; in general they do not remain more than
four or five years, when they return to their own country, proud of having been sufferers among

[p.551]
Bedouins; some, however, have been here forty years. A few of them only understood Arabic; but none
of them write or read it. Being of the lower orders of society, and educated only in convents,
they are extremely ignorant.

Few of them read even the modern Greek fluently, excepting in their prayer-books, and I found
but one who had any notion of the ancient Greek. They have a good library, but it is always
shut up; it contains about fifteen hundred Greek volumes, and seven hundred Arabic manuscripts;
the latter, which I examined volume after volume, consist entirely of books of prayer, copies
of the Gospels, lives of saints, liturgies, &c.; a thick folio volume of the works of Lokman, edited,
according to the Arab tradition, by Hormus, the ancient king of Egypt, was the only one worth attention.
Its title in Arabic is [Arabic]. The prior would not permit it to be taken away, but he made me a
present of a fine copy of the Aldine Odyssey and an equally fine one of the Anthology. In the
room anciently the residence of the Archbishop, which is very elegantly
paved with marble, and extremely well furnished, though at present
unoccupied, is preserved a beautiful ancient manuscript of the Gospels
in Greek, which I was told, was given to the convent by "an emperor
called Theodosius."

It is written in letters of gold upon vellum, and ornamented with portraits of the Apostles.

Notwithstanding
the ignorance of these monks, they are fond of seeing strangers in their wilderness; and I
met with a more cordial reception among them than I did in the convents of Libanus, which are in
possession of all the luxuries of life.


The fleet of Gotland was waiting for the Swedish fleet in the harbour named Garnum. So Ring
led the land-force, while Ole was instructed to command the fleet. Now the Goths were appointed
a time and a place between Wik and Werund for the conflict with the Swedes. Then was the sea
to be seen furrowed up with prows, and the canvas unfurled upon the masts cut off the view
over the ocean. The Danes had so far been distressed with bad weather; but the Swedish fleet
had a fair voyage, and had reached the scene of battle earlier. Here Ring disembarked his forces
from his fleet, and then massed and prepared to draw up in line both these and the army he
had himself conducted overland. When these forces were at first loosely drawn up over the open
country, it was found that one wing reached all the way to Werund. The multitude was confused
in its places and ranks; but the king rode round it, and posted in the van all the smartest
and most excellently-armed men, led by Ole, Regnald, and Wivil; then he massed the rest of
the army on the two wings in a kind of curve. Ung, with the sons of Alrek, and Trig, he ordered
to protect the right wing, while the left was put under the command of Laesi. Moreover, the
wings and the masses were composed mainly of a close squadron of Kurlanders and of Esthonians.
Last stood the line of slingers.

Meantime the Danish fleet, favoured by kindly winds, sailed, without stopping, for twelve days,
and came to the town (stead) of Kalmar. The wind-blown sails covering the waters were a marvel;
and the canvas stretched upon the yards blotted out the sight of the heavens. For the fleet
was augmented by the Sclavs and the Livonians and 7,000 Saxons. But the Skanians, knowing the
country, were appointed as guides and scouts to those who were going over the dry land. So
when the Danish army came upon the Swedes, who stood awaiting them, Ring told his men to stand
quietly until Harald had drawn up his line of battle; bidding them not to sound the signal
before they saw the king settled in his chariot beside the standards; for he said he should
hope that an army would soon come to grief which trusted in the leading of a blind man. Harald,
moreover, he said, had been seized in extreme age with the desire of foreign empire, and was
as witless as he was sightless; wealth could not satisfy a man who, if he looked to his years,
ought to be well-nigh contented with a grave. The Swedes therefore were bound to fight for
their freedom, their country, and their children, while the enemy had undertaken the war in
rashness and arrogance. Moreover, on the other side, there were very few Danes, but a mass
of Saxons and other unmanly peoples stood arrayed. Swedes and Norwegians should therefore consider,
how far the multitudes of the North had always surpassed the Germans and the Sclavs. They should
therefore despise an army which seemed to be composed more of a mass of fickle offscourings
than of a firm and stout soldiery.

By this harangue of King Ring he kindled high the hearts of the soldiers. Now Brun, being instructed
to form the line on Harald's behalf, made the front in a wedge, posting Hetha on the right
flank, putting Hakon in command of the left, and making Wisna standard-bearer. Harald stood
up in his chariot and complained, in as loud a voice as he could, that Ring was requiting his
benefits with wrongs; that the man who had got his kingdom by Harald's own gift was now attacking
him; so that Ring neither pitied an old man nor spared an uncle, but set his own ambitions
before any regard for Harald's kinship or kindness. So he bade the Danes remember how they
had always won glory by foreign conquest, and how they were more wont to command their neighbours
than to obey them. He adjured them not to let such glory as theirs to be shaken by the insolence
of a conquered nation, nor to suffer the empire, which he had won in the flower of his youth,
to be taken from him in his outworn age.

Then the trumpets sounded, and both sides engaged in battle with all their strength. The sky
seemed to fall suddenly on the earth, fields and woods to sink into the ground; all things
were confounded, and old Chaos come again; heaven and earth mingling in one tempestuous turmoil,
and the world rushing to universal ruin. For, when the spear-throwing began, the intolerable
clash of arms filled the air with an incredible thunder. The steam of the wounds suddenly hung
a mist over the sky, the daylight was hidden under the hail of spears. The help of the slingers
was of great use in the battle. But when the missiles had all been flung from hand or engines,
they fought with swords or iron-shod maces; and it was now at close quarters that most blood
was spilt. Then the sweat streamed down their weary bodies, and the clash of the swords could
be heard afar.

Starkad, who was the first to set forth the history of this war in the telling, fought foremost
in the fray, and relates that he overthrew the nobles of Harald, Hun and Elli, Hort and Burgha,
and cut off the right hand of Wisna. He also relates that one Roa, with two others, Gnepie
and Gardar, fell wounded by him in the field. To these he adds the father of Skalk, whose name
is not given. He also declares that he cast Hakon, the bravest of the Danes, to the earth,
but received from him such a wound in return that he had to leave the war with his lung protruding
from his chest, his neck cleft to the centre, and his hand deprived of one finger; so that
he long had a gaping wound, which seemed as if it would never either scar over or be curable.
The same man witnesses that the maiden Weghbiorg (Webiorg) fought against the enemy and felled
Soth the champion. While she was threatening to slay more champions, she was pierced through
by an arrow from the bowstring of Thorkill, a native of Tellemark. For the skilled archers
of the Gotlanders strung their bows so hard that the shafts pierced through even the shields;
nothing proved more murderous; for the arrow-points made their way through hauberk and helmet
as if they were men's defenceless bodies.

Meanwhile Ubbe the Frisian, who was the readiest of Harald's soldiers, and of notable bodily
stature, slew twenty-five picked champions, besides eleven whom he had wounded in the field.
All these were of Swedish or Gothic blood. Then he attacked the vanguard and burst into the
thickest of the enemy, driving the Swedes struggling in a panic every way with spear and sword.
It had all but come to a flight, when Hagder (Hadd), Rolder (Hroald), and Grettir attacked
the champion, emulating his valour, and resolving at their own risk to retrieve the general
ruin. But, fearing to assault him at close quarters, they accomplished their end with arrows
from afar; and thus Ubbe was riddled by a shower of arrows, no one daring to fight him hand
to hand. A hundred and forty-four arrows had pierced the breast of the warrior before his bodily
strength failed and he bent his knee to the earth. Then at last the Danes suffered a great
defeat, owing to the Thronds and the dwellers in the province of Dala. For the battle began
afresh by reason of the vast mass of the archers, and nothing damaged our men more.

But when Harald, being now blind with age, heard the lamentable murmur of his men, he perceived
that fortune had smiled on his enemies. The best pasture seems to be on the S. and E. sides, the
banks of the lake being there lower than on the opposite sides. It was here, perhaps, that the
Seleucidae fed their herds of elephants.

Two hours and a half from Sekeylebye, to the left of the road, is a ruined mosque, called El
Djelame; two hours and a half, Tel el Mellah, a hillock in the plain. Our road continued through
fertile but uncultivated fields. E. of Tel Mellah about two hours is Tel Szeyad. Af ter three
hours and a half slow march we reached the Orontes, near a spot where a large wheel, of the
same construction as those at Hamah, raises the water from the river,
and empties it into a stone canal, by means of which the neighbouring
fields are irrigated. Presently
he began to beseech him earnestly to grant the final victory to the Danes, since he had helped
them so graciously before, and to fill up his last kindness to the measure of the first; promising
to dedicate to him as a gift the spirits of all who fell. But Brun, utterly unmoved by his
entreaties, suddenly jerked the king out of the chariot, battered him to the earth, plucked
the club from him as he fell, whirled it upon his head, and slew him with his own weapon. Countless
corpses lay round the king's chariot, and the horrid heap overtopped the wheels; the pile of
carcases rose as high as the pole. For about 12,000 of the nobles of Ring fell upon the field.
But on the side of Harald about 30,000 nobles fell, not to name the slaughter of the commons.

