"Because, I have never really liked Jasper Chase. He is too cold and--I do not like to judge
him, but I have always distrusted his sincerity in taking the pledge at the church with the rest."

Rachel looked at Virginia thoughtfully.

"I have never given my heart to him I am sure. He touched my emotions, and I admired his skill
as a writer. I have thought at times that I cared a good deal for him. I think perhaps if he
had spoken to me at any other time than the one he chose, I could easily have persuaded myself
that I loved him. But not now."

Again Rachel paused suddenly, and when she looked up at Virginia again there were tears on
her face. Virginia came to her and put her arm about her tenderly. Meant to be addressed trot to Don
Joaquin Gomez, who then lived in that piece of road outside a curtain wall that overlooks
the harbor entrance.

There he awaited the master of the house, the squire and the merchant
Mañero Madrazo. She was simply conscious
of more on Rachel's mind than she had revealed.

Very soon Rollin came back, and he and Virginia, arm in arm as they had lately been in the
habit of doing, walked up and down the long hall. It was easy for their talk to settle finally
upon Rachel because of the place she was to occupy in the plans which were being made for the
purchase of property at the Rectangle.

"Did you ever know of a girl of such really gifted powers in vocal music who was willing to
give her life to the people as Rachel is going to do? She is going to give music lessons in
the city, have private pupils to make her living, and then give the people in the Rectangle
the benefit of her culture and her voice."

"It is certainly a very good example of self-sacrifice," replied Rollin a little stiffly.

Virginia looked at him a little sharply. "But don't you think it is a very unusual example?
Can you imagine--" here Virginia named half a dozen famous opera singers--"doing anything of
this sort?"

"No, I cannot," Rollin answered briefly. "Neither can I imagine Miss--" he spoke the name of
the girl with the red parasol who had begged Virginia to take the girls to the Rectangle--"doing
what you are doing, Virginia."

"Any more than I can imagine Mr.--" Virginia spoke the name of a young society leader "going
about to the clubs doing your work, Rollin." The two walked on in silence for the length of
the hall.

"Coming back to Rachel," began Virginia, "Rollin, why do you treat her with such a distinct,
precise manner? I think, Rollin--pardon me if I hurt you--that she is annoyed by it. You need
to be on easy terms. I don't think Rachel likes this change."

Rollin suddenly stopped. He seemed deeply agitated. He took his arm from Virginia's and walked
alone to the end of the hall. Then he returned, with his hands behind him, and stopped near
his sister and said, "Virginia, have you not learned my secret?"

Virginia looked bewildered, then over her face the unusual color crept, showing that she understood.

"I have never loved any one but Rachel Winslow." Rollin spoke calmly enough now. "That day
she was here when you talked about her refusal to join the concert company, I asked her to
be my wife; out there on the avenue. She refused me, as I knew she would. And she gave as her
reason the fact that I had no purpose in life, which was true enough. Now that I have a purpose,
now that I am a new man, don't you see, Virginia, how impossible it is for me to say anything?
I owe my very conversion to Rachel's singing. And yet that night while she sang I can honestly
say that, for the time being, I never thought of her voice except as God's message. I believe
that all my personal love for her was for the time merged into a personal love to my God and
my Saviour." Rollin was silent, then he went on with more emotion. "I still love her, Virginia.
But I do not think she ever could love me." He stopped and looked his sister in the face with
a sad smile.

"I don't know about that," said Virginia to herself. She was noting Rollin's handsome face,
his marks of dissipation nearly all gone now, the firm lips showing manhood and courage, the
clear eyes looking into hers frankly, the form strong and graceful. Rollin was a man now. Why
should not Rachel come to love him in time? No can
     one trust of her. Goodbye, caseritas! Many Salu.

Ida came the butcher, the baker with the bread basket at the head of a black man who followed
him steps, as the real shadow of his body. Then sign Josefa was agreed that prepare lunch. As
we said at the beginning of this story, the fire was in the patio, beneath a canopy of table,
no fire or anything like it. There was the old using the link fire, flint, sulfur, the candle
and a few coals vegetables, and little lunch was ready. Meanwhile Cecilia set the table and both
women She sat down. For a long time were unable to eat, look up the plate, not speaking a word.
It is expected that each time the grandmother's granddaughter read him the blame the face,
and dared not face her, to step it seemed very nervous and upsetting. Several times he tried
to say something sick he was known by the movement of the lips, and many others went through his
voice in my throat, because instead of just articulated sounds sobs escaped him. Finally, he made
an effort and said:

- I should die now.

- Jesus, Mommy!

Do not say that, "said Cecilia without raising his head.

- Why not,
if that is what I feel?

What am I doing in the world? What's the point? Of obstruction, nothing more than a hindrance.

-
I had never spoken and his mercy.

- Maybe, but my sorrows, though great, I could manage it so far. I'm old, but I have the strength,
I can.

I was thinking I'd better give me to die.

- Does not your worship is sinful murmur of work and penalties that
God commands us?

Remember Jesus Christ carried the cross to Calvary.

- Poor me! I have long since gone the way of the cross, and that I am at Calvary. It remains
my crucifixion, and it seems that I have ordered the same as those most I want in this world.

- If mommy says about me, look at your mercy that makes a real injustice.

God knows that removes the evil, willingly give blood in my veins.

- Do not show it, do not you know. On the contrary, you seem to delight
in always doing What I do not want you to do, like I forbid.

If you say you love me like you do not certain things ...
- Hey! I see where it goes at his mercy.

- I go where I go, where
is every mother who believes in something the future of their children
and its own decorum.

- If your worship would not listen to gossip,
long tongue, it would save more than a disappointment.

- It happens,
girl, this time the gossip is good about what I saw with my own eyes
and heard with these ears that have been eating the earth.

"So far as I have gone," said Norman again looking up, "I am of opinion that Jesus would employ
practically some form of co-operation that would represent the idea of a mutual interest in
a business where all were to move together for the same great end. I am working out such a
plan, and I am confident it will be successful. At any rate, once introduce the element of
personal love into a business like this, take out the selfish principle of doing it for personal
profits to a man or company, and I do not see any way except the most loving personal interest
between editors, reporters, pressmen, and all who contribute anything to the life of the paper.
And that interest would be expressed not only in the personal love and sympathy but in a sharing
with the profits of the business."

"6. As editor of a daily paper today, Jesus would give large space to the work of the Christian
world. He would devote a page possibly to the facts of Reform, of sociological problems, of
institutional church work and similar movements.

"7. He would do all in His power in His paper to fight the saloon as an enemy of the human
race and an unnecessary part of our civilization. He would do this regardless of public sentiment
in the matter and, of course, always regardless of its effect upon His subscription list."

Again Edward Norman looked up. "I state my honest conviction on this point. Of course, I do
not pass judgment on the Christian men who are editing other kinds of papers today. But as
I interpret Jesus, I believe He would use the influence of His paper to remove the saloon entirely
from the political and social life of the nation."

"8. Jesus would not issue a Sunday edition.

"9. He would print the news of the world that people ought to know. Among the things they do
not need to know, and which would not be published, would be accounts of brutal prize-fights,
long accounts of crimes, scandals in private families, or any other human events which in any
way would conflict with the first point mentioned in this outline.

"10. If Jesus had the amount of money to use on a paper which we have, He would probably secure
the best and strongest Christian men and women to co-operate with him in the matter of contributions.
That will be my purpose, as I shall be able to show you in a few days.

"11. Whatever the details of the paper might demand as the paper developed along its definite
plan, the main principle that guided it would always be the establishment of the Kingdom of
God in the world. This large general principle would necessarily shape all the detail."

Edward Norman finished reading the plan. He was very thoughtful.

"I have merely sketched a faint outline. I have a hundred ideas for making the paper powerful
that I have not thought out fully as yet. This is simply suggestive. I have talked it over
with other newspaper men. Some of them say I will have a weak, namby-pamby Sunday-school sheet.
If I get out something as good as a Sunday-school it will be pretty good. Why do men, when
they want to characterize something as particularly feeble, always use a Sunday-school as a
comparison, when they ought to know that the Sunday-school is one of the strongest, most powerful
influences in our civilization in this country today? But the paper will not necessarily be
weak because it is good. Good things are more powerful than bad. The question with me is largely
one of support from the Christian people of Raymond. There are over twenty thousand church
members here in this city. If half of them will stand by the NEWS its life is assured. What
do you think, Maxwell, of the probability of such support?"

"I don't know enough about it to give an intelligent answer. I believe in the paper with all
my heart. If it lives a year, as Miss Virginia said, there is no telling what it can do. The
great thing will be to issue such a paper, as near as we can judge, as Jesus probably would,
and put into it all the elements of Christian brains, strength, intelligence and sense; and
command respect for freedom from bigotry, fanaticism, narrowness and anything else that is
contrary to the spirit of Jesus. Such a paper will call for the best that human thought and
action is capable of giving. The greatest minds in the world would have their powers taxed
to the utmost to issue a Christian daily."

"Yes," Edward Norman spoke humbly. "I shall make a great many mistakes, no doubt. I need a
great deal of wisdom. But I want to do as Jesus would. 'What would He do?' I have asked it,
and shall continue to do so, and abide by the results."

"I think we are beginning to understand," said Virginia, "the meaning of that command, 'Grow
in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.' I am sure I do not know all
that He would do in detail until I know Him better."

"That is very true," said Henry Maxwell. "I am beginning to understand that I cannot interpret
the probable action of Jesus until I know better what His spirit is. The greatest question
in all of human life is summed up when we ask, 'What would Jesus do?' if, as we ask it, we
also try to answer it from a growth in knowledge of Jesus himself. We must know Jesus before
we can imitate Him."

When the arrangement had been made between Virginia an Edward Norman, he found himself in possession
of the sum of five hundred thousand dollars to use for the establishment of a Christian daily
paper. When Virginia and Maxwell had gone, Norman closed his door and, alone with the Divine
Presence, asked like a child for help from his all-powerful Father. Surely his prayer would
be answered, and the kingdom advanced through this instrument of God's power, this mighty press,
which had become so largely degraded to the base uses of man's avarice and ambition.

Two months went by. They were full of action and of results in the city of Raymond and especially
in the First Church. In spite of the approaching heat of the summer season, the after-meeting
of the disciples who had made the pledge to do as Jesus would do, continued with enthusiasm
and power. Gray had finished his work at the Rectangle, and an outward observer going through
the place could not have seen any difference in the old conditions, although there was an actual
change in hundreds of lives. But the saloons, dens, hovels, gambling houses, still ran, overflowing
their vileness into the lives of fresh victims to take the place of those rescued by the evangelist.
And the devil recruited his ranks very fast.

Henry Maxwell did not go abroad. Instead of that, he took the money he had been saving for
the trip and quietly arranged for a summer vacation for a whole family living down in the Rectangle,
who had never gone outside of the foul district of the tenements. The pastor of the First Church
will never forget the week he spent with this family making the arrangements. He went down
into the Rectangle one hot day when something of the terrible heat in the horrible tenements
was beginning to be felt, and helped the family to the station, and then went with them to
a beautiful spot on the coast where, in the home of a Christian woman, the bewildered city
tenants breathed for the first time in years the cool salt air, and felt blow about them the
pine-scented fragrance of a new lease of life.

There was a sickly babe with the mother, and three other children, one a cripple. 

He stood murmuring

- These Spanish waiters are sometimes too intrusive.

If he heard or not is something that is not known, although by the look of it threw the young
man seems that rang in his ears as Spanish and impertinent.

Well would like Adela and Florence Gamez take part in the next dance, the first to be told
what his brother, but he He smiled casually and said no word.

Meanwhile
Rosa decided that girls, as expressed to pass into the dressing room
to collect their silk rugs. And Maxwell, coming back into Raymond at the end
of that week, feeling the scorching, sickening heat all the more because of his little taste
of the ocean breezes, thanked God for the joy he had witnessed, and entered upon his discipleship
with a humble heart, knowing for almost the first time in his life this special kind of sacrifice.
For never before had he denied himself his regular summer trip away from the heat of Raymond,
whether he felt in any great need of rest or not.

"It is a fact," he said in reply to several inquiries on the part of his church, "I do not
feel in need of a vacation this year. I am very well and prefer to stay here." It was with
a feeling of relief that he succeeded in concealing from every one but his wife what he had
done with this other family. He felt the need of doing anything of that sort without display
or approval from others.

So the summer came on, and Maxwell grew into a large knowledge of his Lord. The First Church
was still swayed by the power of the Spirit. Maxwell marveled at the continuance of His stay.
He knew very well that from the beginning nothing but the Spirit's presence had kept the church
from being torn asunder by the remarkable testing it had received of its discipleship. Even
now there were many of the members among those who had not taken the pledge, who regarded the
whole movement as Mrs. Winslow did, in the nature of a fanatical interpretation of Christian
duty, and looked for the return of the old normal condition. Meanwhile the whole body of disciples
was under the influence of the Spirit, and the pastor went his way that summer, doing his parish
work in great joy, keeping up his meetings with the railroad men as he had promised Alexander
Powers, and daily growing into a better knowledge of the Master.

Early one afternoon in August, after a day of refreshing coolness following a long period of
heat, Jasper Chase walked to his window in the apartment house on the avenue and looked out.

On his desk lay a pile of manuscript. Since that evening when he had spoken to Rachel Winslow
he had not met her. His singularly sensitive nature--sensitive to the point of extreme irritability
when he was thwarted--served to thrust him into an isolation that was intensified by his habits
as an author.

All through the heat of summer he had been writing. His book was nearly done now. He had thrown
himself into its construction with a feverish strength that threatened at any moment to desert
him and leave him helpless. 

And even those two objects, which are the glories of Cologne, are not only half, since on the
one hand, the cathedral was never completed, and second, the holy name of John Maria Farina
is almost entirely a hoax. Would
He write this story?" It was a social novel, written in a style that had proved popular. It
had no purpose except to amuse. Its moral teaching was not bad, but neither was it Christian
in any positive way. Jasper Chase knew that such a story would probably sell. He was conscious
of powers in this way that the social world petted and admired. "What would Jesus do?" He felt
that Jesus would never write such a book. The question obtruded on him at the most inopportune
times. He became irascible over it. The standard of Jesus for an author was too ideal. Of course,
Jesus would use His powers to produce something useful or helpful, or with a purpose. As usual, he walked with his head down and thoughtful. For this reason and because it was
too dark the street, there being no light in the house, little brothers are crossed not recognized,
despite the proximity. As well, she recognized first, he got in the way and asked him repeat two
verses of a song as popular then as full of malice

"- Where are you going with that cat and the night so dark?"

- What!
José Dolores said surprised. Ah! Is that you? "Did the promise mean much after all?" he asked.

As he stood at the window, Rollin Page came out of the club house just opposite. Jasper noted
his handsome face and noble figure as he started down the street. He went back to his desk
and turned over some papers there. Then he came back to the window. Rollin was walking down
past the block and Rachel Winslow was walking beside him. Rollin must have overtaken her as
she was coming from Virginia's that afternoon.

Jasper watched the two figures until they disappeared in the crowd on the walk. Then he turned
to his desk and began to write. When he had finished the last page of the last chapter of his
book it was nearly dark. "What would Jesus do?" He had finally answered the question by denying
his Lord. It grew darker in his room. He had deliberately chosen his course, urged on by his
disappointment and loss.

Chapter Eighteen

"What is that to thee? Follow thou me."

WHEN Rollin started down the street the afternoon that Jasper stood looking out of his window
he was not thinking of Rachel Winslow and did not expect to see her anywhere. He had come suddenly
upon her as he turned into the avenue and his heart had leaped up at the sight of her. He walked
along by her now, rejoicing after all in a little moment of this earthly love he could not
drive out of his life.

"I have just been over to see Virginia," said Rachel. "She tells me the arrangements are nearly
completed for the transfer of the Rectangle property."

"Yes. It has been a tedious case in the courts. Did Virginia show you all the plans and specifications
for building?"

"We looked over a good many. It is astonishing to me where Virginia has managed to get all
her ideas about this work."

"Virginia knows more now about Arnold Toynbee and East End London and Institutional Church
work in America than a good many professional slum workers. She has been spending nearly all
summer in getting information." Rollin was beginning to feel more at ease as they talked over
this coming work of humanity. It was safe, common ground.

"What have you been doing all summer? I have not seen much of you," Rachel suddenly asked,
and then her face warmed with its quick flush of tropical color as if she might have implied
too much interest in Rollin or too much regret at not seeing him oftener.

"I have been busy," replied Rollin briefly.

"Tell me something about it," persisted Rachel. "You say so little. Have I a right to ask?"

She put the question very frankly, turning toward Rollin in real earnest.

"Yes, certainly," he replied, with a graceful smile. "I am not so certain that I can tell you
much. I have been trying to find some way to reach the men I once knew and win them into more
useful lives."

He stopped suddenly as if he were almost afraid to go on. Rachel did not venture to suggest
anything. 

Cast a glance on the fortifications, which describe a huge, three-round; on city streets, looking dirty
and generally similar to those offered Flemish cities, on the boardwalk along the banks of the
Rhine, stupidly locked between the river and a row of useless walls, and extremely untidy, and
the great-ducal palace, where are gathered some mediocre museums and a large library, rich in manuscripts
Germans called incunabula, there is more to see the cathedral and the beautiful statue Gutenberg. This
is a very notable work in bronze, executed according to a famous model Thorvaldsen.
 And the more I thought of it, the more I was
driven to a place where I knew I must take up the cross. Did you ever think that of all the
neglected beings in our social system none are quite so completely left alone as the fast young
men who fill the clubs and waste their time and money as I used to? The churches look after
the poor, miserable creatures like those in the Rectangle; they make some effort to reach the
working man, they have a large constituency among the average salary-earning people, they send
money and missionaries to the foreign heathen, but the fashionable, dissipated young men around
town, the club men, are left out of all plans for reaching and Christianizing. And yet no class
of people need it more. I said to myself: 'I know these men, their good and their bad qualities.
I have been one of them. I am not fitted to reach the Rectangle people. I do not know how.
But I think I could possibly reach some of the young men and boys who have money and time to
spend.' So that is what I have been trying to do. When I asked as you did, What would Jesus
do?' that was my answer. It has been also my cross."

Rollin's voice was so low on this last sentence that Rachel had difficulty in hearing him above
the noise around them, But she knew what he had said. She wanted to ask what his methods were.
But she did not know how to ask him. How long have you been sick?

- Oh, sir!

Long, the life of a Christian, will now eighteen years rather more
less.

- No, I do not mean that.

How long have you entered the hospital for Paula?

- Shortly after being sick. It is now just under seventeen, because she was about two months old
when you can not hold it to be at home, I had to put Paula in the
hospital as the doctor advised me Rosaín. Now you can imagine Mr.
Doctor what it cost this separation. Rachel had not forgotten that day and Rollin could not. She
finally broke a long silence by asking what she had not found words for before.

"In your work with the club men, with your old acquaintances, what sort of reception do they
give you? How do you approach them? What do they say?"

Rollin was relieved when Rachel spoke. He answered quickly: "Oh, it depends on the man. A good
many of them think I am a crank. I have kept my membership up and am in good standing in that
way. I try to be wise and not provoke any unnecessary criticism. But you would be surprised
to know how many of the men have responded to my appeal. I could hardly make you believe that
only a few nights ago a dozen men became honestly and earnestly engaged in a conversation over
religious matters. I have had the great joy of seeing some of the men give up bad habits and
begin a new life. 'What would Jesus do?' I keep asking it. The answer comes slowly, for I am
feeling my way slowly. One thing I have found out. The men are not fighting shy of me. I think
that is a good sign. Another thing: I have actually interested some of them in the Rectangle
work, and when it is started up they will give something to help make it more powerful. And
in addition to all the rest, I have found a way to save several of the young fellows from going
to the bad in gambling."

Rollin spoke with enthusiasm. His face was transformed by his interest in the subject which
had now become a part of his real life. Rachel again noted the strong, manly tone of his speech.
With it all she knew there was a deep, underlying seriousness which felt the burden of the
cross even while carrying it with joy. The next time she spoke it was with a swift feeling
of justice due to Rollin and his new life.

"Do you remember I reproached you once for not having any purpose worth living for?" she asked,
while her beautiful face seemed to Rollin more beautiful than ever when he had won sufficient
self-control to look up. "I want to say, I feel the need of saying, in justice to you now,
that I honor you for your courage and your obedience to the promise you have made as you interpret
the promise. The life you are living is a noble one."

Rollin trembled. 

Koblenz is well known that in 1792 was the refuge of the Princes and French immigrants conspiring
against their country in foreign soil, blinded by the selfishness of class or caste and fury of
political passions. She
read his love for her in that look, but he did not speak.

