THE following Narrative of a "Pilgrimage" through the kingdom of Oude was written by the late
Major-General Sir William Sleeman in 1851 (while a Resident at the Court of Lucknow), at the
request of the Governor-General the Marquess of Dalhousie, in order to acquaint the Honourable
Company with the actual condition of that kingdom, and with the view of pointing out the best
measures to be suggested to the King for the improvement and amelioration of the country and
people.

So early as October, 1847, the King of Oude had been informed by the Governor-General, that
if his system of rule were not materially amended (for it was disgraceful and dangerous to
any neighbouring power to permit its continuance in its present condition) before two years
had expired, the British Government would find it necessary to take steps for such purpose
in his name. Accordingly on the 16th September, 1848, the Governor-General addressed the following
letter to Sir William Sleeman, commissioning him to make a personal visit to all parts of the
kingdom:--

                         "Government House, Sept. 16, 1848.

"My Dear COLONEL SLEEMAN,--It was a matter of regret to me that I had not anticipated your
desire to succeed Colonel Sutherland in Rajpootana before I made arrangements which prevented
my offering that appointment to you. I now regret it no longer, since the course of events
has put it in my power to propose an arrangement which will, I apprehend, be more agreeable
to you, and which will make your services more actively beneficial to the State.

"Colonel Richmond has intimated his intention of immediately resigning the Residency at Lucknow.
The communication made by the Governor-General to the King of Oude, in October, 1847, gave
His Majesty to understand that if the condition of Government was not very materially amended
before two years had expired, the management for his behoof would be taken into the hands of
the British Government.

"There seems little reason to expect or to hope that in October, 1849, any amendment whatever
will have been effected. The reconstruction of the internal administration of a great, rich,
and oppressed country, is a noble as well as an arduous task for the officer to whom the duty
is intrusted, and the Government have recourse to one of the best of its servants for that purpose.

"To Colonel Sleeman, &c., &c."

Immediately on receipt of this despatch, Sir William proceeded to make the necessary inquiry.
Doubtless the King (instigated by his Ministers and favourites, who dreaded the exposure of
all their infamous proceedings) would have prevented this investigation, which, he was aware,
would furnish evidence of gross mal-administration, cruelty, and oppression almost unparalleled;
but Sir William Sleeman was too well acquainted with the character of the people of the East
to be moved either by cajolery or menaces from the important duty which had devolved upon him.

Sir William Sleeman's position as Resident enabled him to ascertain thoroughly the real state
of Oude; and the great respect with which he was universally received manifests the high opinion
entertained of him personally by all ranks. The details he has given of the prevailing anarchy
and lawlessness throughout the kingdom, would scarcely be believed were they not vouched for
by an officer of established reputation and integrity. Firmness united to amenity of manner
were indeed the characteristics of Sir William in his important and delicate office at such
a Court--a Court where the King, deputing the conduct of business to Ministers influenced by
the basest motives, and who constantly sacrificed justice to bribery and low intrigues, gave
himself up to the effeminate indulgence of his harem, and the society of eunuchs and fiddlers.
His Majesty appears to have been governed by favourites of the hour selected through utter
caprice, and to have permitted, if he did not order, such atrocious cruelties and oppression
as rendered the kingdom of Oude a disgrace to the British rule in India, and called for strong
interference, on the score of humanity alone, as well as with the hope of compelling amendment. 

If the pupil speak to himself both these results are attained. This he can do by studying aloud. His tongue
will educate his ear and familiarise it with the new sounds, whilst the ear will correct the tongue.
I assume, of course, that he is under the guidance of a teacher; in this case with attention to
the teacher’s pronunciation and care, and a little effort on his own part, he should soon pronounce
correctly, easily, and well. By translating the exercises aloud, from five to twenty times, they
should become as familiar to him as English. But whether translating into or from English, the
foreign sentences should always be uttered aloud clearly and distinctly.
 Shut up in his harem, the voice of justice seldom reached the ear of
the monarch, and when it did, was scarcely heeded. The Resident, it will be seen, was beset
during his journey with petitions for redress so numerous, that, anxious as he was to do everything
in his power to mitigate the horrors he witnessed, he frequently gives vent to the pain he
experienced at finding relief impracticable.

The Narrative contains an unvarnished but unexaggerated picture of the actual state of Oude,
with many remedial suggestions; but direct annexation formed no part of the policy which Sir
William Sleeman recommended. To this measure he was strenuously opposed, as is distinctly proved
by his letters appended to the Journal. At the same time, he repeatedly affirms the total unfitness
of the King to govern. These opinions are still further corroborated by the following letter
from his private correspondence, 1854-5, written when Resident at Lucknow, and published in
the Times in November last:--

"The system of annexation, pursued by a party in this country, and favoured by Lord Dalhousie
and his Council, has, in my opinion, and in that of a large number of the ablest men in India,
a downward tendency--a tendency to crush all the higher and middle classes connected with the
land. These classes it should be our object to create and foster, that we might in the end
inspire them with a feeling of interest in the stability of our rule. We shall find a few years
hence the tables turned against us. In fact, the aggressive and absorbing policy, which has
done so much mischief of late in India, is beginning to create feelings of alarm in the native
mind; and it is when the popular mind becomes agitated by such alarms that fanatics will always
be found ready to step into Paradise over the bodies of the most prominent of those from whom
injury is apprehended. I shall have nothing new to do at Lucknow. Lord Dalhousie and I have
different views, I fear. If he wishes anything done that I do not think right and honest, I
resign, and leave it to be done by others. I desire a strict adherence to solemn engagements,
whether made with white faces or black. My position here has been and is disagreeable and unsatisfactory:
we have a fool of a king, a knave of a minister, and both are under the influence of one of
the cleverest, most intriguing, and most unscrupulous villains in India."

Major Bird, in his pamphlet "Dacoitee in Excelsis," while endeavouring to establish a case
for the King of Oude, has assumed that Sir William Sleeman was an instrument in the hands of
Lord Dalhousie, to carry out his purpose of annexing Oude to British India. The letters, now
first printed, entirely refute this hasty and erroneous statement. Major Bird has, in fact,
withdrawn it himself in a lecture delivered by him at Southampton on Tuesday, the 16th of February,
1858.

It will be seen that Sir W. Sleeman's "Diary" commences on December 1, 1849. To preserve chronological
order, the letters written before that date are prefixed; those which refer to a later period
are added at the end of the narrative.

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE PRECEDING THE JOURNEY THROUGH THE KINGDOM OF OUDE.

                                    Camp, 20th February, 1848.

My Dear Sir,

I thank you for your letter of the 10th instant, and am of opinion that you may be able to
make good use of Bhurut Sing under judicious management, and strict surveillance; but you do
not mention who and what he is--whether he is a prisoner under sentence, or a free agent, or
of what caste and profession. Some men make these offers in order to have opportunities of
escape, while engaged in the pretended search after associates in crime; others to extort money
from those whom they may denounce, or have the authority and means to arrest. He should be
made to state distinctly the evidence he has against persons, and the way he got it; and all
should be recorded against the names of the persons in a Register. Major Riddell is well acquainted
with our mode of proceedings in all such cases, and I recommend you to put yourself in communication,
as soon as possible, with him, and Mr. Dampier, the Superintendent of Police, who fortunately
takes the greatest possible interest in all such matters. I have no supervision whatever over
the officers of the department employed in Bengal; all rests entirely with Mr. Dampier. You
might write to him at once, and tell him that you are preparing such a Register as I suggest;
and if he is satisfied with the evidence, he will authorise the arrest of all or part, and
well reward Bhurut Sing for his services.

       Believe me, My Dear Sir,
             With best wishes for your success,
                   Yours sincerely,
            (Signed)         W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Capt. J. Innes, Barrackpoor.

                                         Camp, 20th February, 1848.
My Dear Colonel Sutherland,

There are at Jubulpore a good many of the Bagree decoits, who have been sentenced as approvers,
by the Courts of Punchaet, in Rajpootana, to imprisonment for very short periods. Unless they
are ordered to be retained when these periods expire, on a requisition of security for their
future good behaviour, they will make off, and assuredly return to their hereditary trade.
The ordinary pay of the grades open to them in our police and other establishments, will not
satisfy them when they find that we have no hold upon them, and they become more and more troublesome
as the time for their enlargement approaches.

I send you copies of the letters from Government of the 27th June, 1839, from which you will
see that it was intended that all professional decoits who gave us their services on a promise
of conditional pardon, should have a sentence of imprisonment for life recorded against them,
the execution of which was to be suspended during their good behaviour, and eventually altogether
remitted in cases where they might be deemed to have merited, by a course of true and faithful
services, such an indulgence. In all other parts, as well as in our own provinces as in native
states, such sentences, have been recorded against these men, and they have cheerfully submitted
to them, under the assurance that they and their children would be provided with the means
of earning an honest livelihood; but in Rajpootana it has been otherwise.

By Act 24, of 1843, all such professional gang-robbers are declared liable to a sentence, on
conviction, of imprisonment for life; and everywhere else a sentence of imprisonment for life
has been passed upon all persons convicted of being gang-robbers by profession. This is indispensably
necessary for the entire suppression of the system which Government has in view. Do you not
think that in your Courts the final sentence might be left to the European functionaries, and
the verdict only left to the Punchaets? The greater part of those already convicted in these
Courts will have to be released soon, and all who are so will certainly return to their trade;
and the system will continue in spite of all our efforts to put it down. I have just been at
Jubulpore, and the bearing of the Bagree decoits, sent from Ajmeer by Buch, is quite different
from that of those who have had a sentence of imprisonment for life passed against them in
other quarters, and is very injurious to them, for they get so bad a name that no one will
venture to give them service of any kind. Do, I pray you, think of a remedy for the future.
The only one that strikes me is that above suggested, of leaving the final sentence to the
European officers.

I need not say that I was delighted at your getting the great Douger Sing by the means you
had yourself proposed for the pursuit--sending an officer with authority to disregard boundaries.

            Yours sincerely,
          (Signed)           W. S. SLEEMAN

To Col. Sutherland.

                                     Jhansee, 4th March, 1848.

My Lord,

I had the gratification to receive your Lordship's letter of the 7th of January last, at Nursingpore,
in the valley of the Nerbudda, where I commenced my Civil career more than a quarter of a century
before, and where, of all places, I should have wished to receive so gracious a testimonial
from such high authority. I should have earlier expressed by grateful acknowledgments, and
prepared the narrative so frequently called for, but I was then engaged in preparing a Report
on Gang-robbery in India, and wished first to make a little more progress, that I might be
able to speak more confidently of its ultimate completion and submission to Government. In
a less perfect form this Report was, at the earnest recommendation of the then Lieut.-Governor
N.W.P., the Honourable T. Robertson, and with the sanction of the Governor-General Lord Auckland,
sent to the Government press so long back as 1842, but his Lordship appeared to me to think
that the printing had better be deferred till more progress had been made in the work of putting
down the odious system of crime which the Report exposed, and I withdrew it from the press
with little hope of ever again having any leisure to devote to it, or finding any other person
able and willing to undertake its completion.

During the last rains, however, I began again to arrange the confused mass of papers which
I found lying in a box; but in October I was interrupted by a severe attack of fever, and unable
to do anything but the current duties of my office till I commenced my tour through the Saugor
territories, in November. I have since nearly completed the work, and hope to be able to submit
it to Government before the end of this month in a form worthy of its acceptation.

Permit me to subscribe myself, with great respect, Your Lordship's faithful and obedient humble
servant,

            (Signed)          W. H. SLEEMAN.

To Lieut.-General the Right Hon.
Henry Viscount Hardinge,
     &c. &c. &c.

                                       Jhansee, 4th March, 1848.
Dear Sir,

Lord Hardinge, in a letter dated the 7th of January last, requested me to make out a narrative
of my humble services in India, and to send it under cover to you, as he expected to embark
on the 15th, before he could receive it in Calcutta. I take the liberty to send my reply with
the narrative, open, and to request that you will do me the favour to have them sealed and
forwarded to his Lordship.

         Believe me, dear Sir,
              Yours very faithfully,
              (Signed)        W. H. SLEEMAN.

To J. Cosmo Melvill, Secretary to the East India Company, India House, London.

                                        Jhansee, 28th March, 1848.

My Dear Elliot,

The Court of Directors complain that decoit prisoners are not tried as soon as they are caught,
but they know little of the difficulties that the officers under me find in getting them tried,
for political officers have, in truth, had little encouragement to undertake such duties, and
it is only a few choice spirits that have entered upon the duty con amore. General Nott prided,
himself upon doing nothing whatever while he was at Lucknow; General Pollock did all he could,
but it was not much; and Colonel Richmond does nothing. There the Buduk decoits, Thugs, and
poisoners, remain without sentences, and will do so till Richmond goes, unless you give him
a fillip. In a year he has spent fifty hours with the teacher; if he devoted two or three hours
weekly to the preparation of each lesson, he will have spent 150 to 200 hours per annum upon it,
or, less absences and omissions, perhaps 140 or 180 hours upon its
study. Davidson
was prevented from doing anything by technical difficulties, so that out of four Residents
we have not got four days' work.

You will soon get my Report, and it will be worth having, and the last I shall make on crime
in India.

If Hercules had not had better instruments he could not so easily have cleared out his stable;
but he had no "Honourable Court" to find fault with his mode of doing the thing, I conclude.
The fact is, however, that our prisoners are pretty well tried before they get into quod. Mr.
Bird will be delighted at the manner in which he is introduced in my first chapter, and many
another good officer well pleased.

                   Yours sincerely,
                         (Signed)       W. H. SLEEMAN.

To H. M. Elliot, Esq., Secretary to the Government of India, Calcutta.

                                    Jhansee, 29th March, 1848.

My Dear Maddock,

I hope you will not disapprove of the resolution to which I have come of resigning the charge
of the Saugor territories, now that tranquillity has been restored,--the best possible feelings
among the people prevail, and the object you had in view in recommending Lord Ellenborough
to confide that charge to me has been effected,--or of the manner in which I have tendered
my resignation. Were I longer to retain the charge, I should be subjected to humiliations which
the exigencies of the public service do not require that I should at this time of life submit
to, and I shall have enough of labour and anxiety in the charge that will still remain to me.
If an opening for Sir R. Shakespear could be found, his salary might be saved by my residence
being transferred to Gwalior. If either Hamilton or I were to be removed to some other post,
it would be well to reduce Gwalior and Indore to political agencies, under the supervision
of an agent, as in Rajpootana, with Bundelcund added to his charge. The latter of these two
measures has, you know, been under consideration, and was, I think, proposed by Sutherland
when you were at Gwalior with Lord Auckland. Had the Lieutenant-Governor known more of the
Saugor territories when he wrote the paper on which Government is now acting, he would not,
I think, have described the state of things as he has done, or urged the introduction of the
system which must end in minutely subdividing all leases, and in having all questions regarding
land tenures removed into the civil Courts, as in the provinces. It is the old thing, "nothing
like leather." I shall not weary you by anything more on this subject. I hope a good man will
be selected for the charge. The selection of Mr. M. Smith as successor to Mr. Brown was a good
one. My letter will go off to-day, and be, I trust, well received. I am grieved that Clerk
has been obliged to quit his post; he has been throughout his career an ornament to your service,
but his friends seem all along to have apprehended that he could not long stand the climate
of Bombay. I am anxious to learn how long you are to remain in Council.

                      Yours very sincerely,
                      (Signed)       W. H. SLEEMAN.

To the Hon. Sir T. H. Maddock,
         &c. &c. &c.

                                        Jhansee, 2nd April, 1848.

My Dear Elliot,

Till I this morning got the public letter, which will go off to-day, I never heard one word
about Shakespear's intention or wish to go to the hills, and only thirteen days remain. The
orders of Government as to his locum tenens cannot reach me by the 15th, when he is to leave,
and I shall have to put in some one to take charge, as there is a treasury under his management.

If Government wish to take Major Stevens from the Byza Bae, and give him some other employment,
he might be sent to act for Captain Ross; but I know nothing of his fitness for such an office.

I believe you know Captain Ross, and I need say nothing more than what I have said in my public
letter. If he be sent to Gwalior, I hope a good officer may be sent to act for him in Thalone,
for the duties are very heavy and responsible. Blake will do very well, and so would his second
in command, Captain Erskine, of the 73rd, who is an excellent civil officer. I must pray you
to let me have the orders of Government on the subject as soon as possible.

                 Yours sincerely,
              (Signed)     W. H. SLEEMAN.

P.S.--I should consider Major Stevens an able man for a civil charge, but have never seen him.

              (Signed)     W. H. S.

To H. M. Elliot, Esq.,
     &c. &c.

                                        Jhansee, 6th May, 1848.

My Dear Maddock,

Your kind letter of the 21st ultimo had prepared me for the public one of the 28th, which I
got yesterday from Elliot, and I wrote off at once, to say simply that I should be glad to
suspend or to withdraw the application contained in my letter of the 29th of March, as might
appear best to Government; and that I should not have made it at all, had I apprehended that
a compliance with it would have been attended with any inconvenience.

