The Fortunes of the Farrells

By Mrs George de Horne Vaizey

Old Mr Bernard Farrell is known to be immensely rich. No one in his family has seen him for
ages.  Suddenly he turns up, and is invited to stay for a few days, as he isn't very well.
His proposition is, that he would like various of his nephews and nieces to come and stay with
him for quite a long time, so that he might gauge which of them should receive the greater
part of his wealth after he dies.

The house-part duly convenes, and they don't find him a very agreeable host, but for the most
part they persevere.  He has made a preliminary will "in case of accident".  He is trying to
keep this will secret, and of course the young people are all agog to know what is in it. 
One day he accidentally leaves his desk open, and realises that someone has been at his desk,
and has read the will.  He calls all the young people to his bed, and asks them point-blank
who it was.  Of course he gets various kinds of answer, from the offended, to the frightened
and cowed. But by chance he finds out exactly who had peeked into his desk and read the will.
We won't spoil the story for you, but would say this: that it is as good a Horne Vaizey story
as any, even the earlier Pixie books. NH

THE FORTUNES OF THE FARRELLS

BY MRS GEORGE DE HORNE VAIZEY

CHAPTER ONE.

FROM PRETENCE TO REALITY.

"Berengaria, what do you generally do with your old court trains?  How do you use them up?"

The fire had died down to a dull red glow; only one tiny flame remained, which, flickering
to and fro, showed a wide expanse of floor, and two easy-chairs drawn up before the fender,
on which reclined vague, feminine figures.  The voice which had asked the question was slow
and languid, and breathed a wearied indifference to the world in general, which was more than
equalled in the tone of the reply--

"Really, don't you know, I can't say!  I put them away, meaning to use them for cloaks or evening-dresses;
but I forget, or they get mislaid, or the maid confiscates them for her own purposes.  I expect,
as a matter of fact, she makes them up into Sunday blouses."

"You spoil that woman, dear!  You are so absurdly easy-going that she robs you right and left.
Do take my advice, and give her notice at once!"

"I couldn't, darling, even to please you!  It bores me so to deal with strangers, and no one
else could do my hair like Elsie.  If it pleases her to use up a few of my garments, why shouldn't
the poor soul have her pleasure like the rest?  That reminds me, Lucille--are you going to
the duchess's ball to-night?  I suppose it is superfluous to ask, since no entertainment is
complete without you nowadays."

"Oh, I suppose so!  If I am not too fagged, that is to say. 'Tis now too late, and clearly do
I see that I was never worthy of you, PETER.

Peter (gently). 'Tis
not for me to contradict you now. You did your best to be so, EMILY!

Emily.
A blessing on you for those generous words! Now tell me, PETER, how
is your poor foot?  One hardly feels
up to dancing after struggling through two of the asphyxiating mobs dignified by the name of
entertainments; still, I promised Arthur the cotillion, and he will be desolated if I play
him false; and I have a new frock for the occasion which is really rather a dream.  Silver
tissue over satin, and shoulder- straps of diamonds.  I had them reset on purpose.  I spend
quite a fortune on resetting jewels nowadays; but one must be original, or die!"

"My dear, you will be too bewitching!  Lord Arthur will be more desperate than ever.  My poor
little self will be nowhere beside you! I'm going to be sweet and simple in chiffon and pearls.
Paquin made the gown.  Don't ask what it cost!  I tore up the bill and threw it in the fire.
Really, don't you know, it made me quite depressed!  So perishable, too!  I expect I shall
be in rags before the evening is over.  But it's quite sweet at present--all frilly-willys
from top to toe.  I do love to be fluffy and feminine, and my pearls really are unique!  The
princess examined them quite carefully when I met her last winter, and said she had rarely
seen finer specimens.  I wouldn't wear them at all unless they were good.  I cannot endure
inferior jewels!"

The speaker lolled still more luxuriously in her chair, then started forward, as the door opened
with a bang, and a harsh voice accosted her by name--

"Miss Mollie, your mother wants to know if you have finished darning the socks?  She is putting
away the clean clothes, and wants to sort them with the rest."

The Lady Lucille--otherwise Mollie Farrell, the penniless daughter of an impoverished house--jumped
up from her chair, and clasped her hands in dismay.  In blissful contemplation of imagining
chiffons and cotillions, the prosaic duties of reality had slipped from her mind, and recollection
brought with it a pang of remorse.

"Misery me!  I forgot the very existence of the wretched things!  Never mind.  Tell mother,
Annie, that I'll set to work this minute, and put them away myself as soon as they are done.
Tell her I'm sorry; tell her I'll be as quick as I possibly can!"

Annie stood for a moment in eloquent silence then shut the door and descended the stairs; while
Mollie groped her way across the room, and Berengaria lifted herself from her chair with a
sigh, and slipped her hand along the mantelpiece.

"I'll light the gas.  How horrid it is, being dragged back to earth by these sordid interruptions!
It's always the way--as soon as I begin to forget myself, and enjoy a taste of luxury, back
I'm dragged to the same dull old life.  I really saw that silver tissue, and felt the coldness
of the diamonds against my shoulder; and then--socks!  Those wretched, thick, ugly socks, with
the heels all out, and the toes in rags!  I think schoolboys ought to be obliged to darn their
own clothes, just to teach them a little care!"

"Well, be aisy; you haven't to darn them, anyway.  It's my work, which is the best of reasons
why it is left undone.  Hurry with the gas, there's a dear.  There's no time for conundrums,
if I am to finish to- night!"

Another sigh, the striking of a match, and the light sprang up, and showed a tall, girlish
figure, clad in a blue serge skirt, and a flannel blouse, faded from repeated washing, and
showing signs of a decided shortage of material.

Considered as a costume, it was a painful contrast to the silver and diamonds of the fair Berengaria;
but the shabby garments looked their best on Ruth Farrell's slight form, and the face reflected
in the strip of mirror above the mantelpiece had a distinct charm of its own.  A low brow below
masses of brown hair; a flush of carmine on the cheeks; soft lips, drooping pathetically at
the corners; and--most striking feature of all--thickly marked eyebrows of almost jetty black,
stretching in long, straight lines above the grey eyes.  A pretty, almost a beautiful face,
full of character, full of thought, full of a restless, unsatisfied yearning.

She threw the burnt-out match on to the fire, and turned to survey the room--surely the most
motley and curious apartment that could be imagined!  The sloping roof proved at a glance the
position under the leads, and a peep at the outside of the door would have shown the word "Attica"
painted in bold white letters on the top panel.

Attica--or the land of attic--constituted the boudoirs of the Ladies Berengaria and Lucille,
the work-rooms and play-rooms, dens and havens of refuge, of Ruth and Mollie Farrell, and their
young stepsisters, Trix and Betty Connor; for it was of generous proportions, measuring a square
eight yards or more, and the floor was divided into four equal sections by lines of white paint
against the brown of the original staining.

Each sister held an exclusive right to her own domain, and for another to enter therein without
special invitation was held as an outrage against decency and good taste.

In the beginning of things, Ruth, as the eldest, had claimed the right of first choice, and,
being a young woman who liked her comforts, had instantly and unhesitatingly appropriated the
fireside.

Mollie, coming next in order, plumped for the window, it being her sunny habit to look forward
to an endless summer; Trix, grumbling vigorously, appropriated the angle made by the blank
walls nearest the fire; and poor Betty made her lair in the direct draught of the doorway,
and enjoyed a permanent cold in the head from November to March.

A glance at the four corners of the room afforded a very fair idea of the characters of its
inhabitants.  Ruth's "Fireland" domain had an air of luxury of its own, though the draperies
were of simple turkey-red, and the pictures mounted on home-made frames of brown paper.  There
was a row of shelves against the wall, holding quite a goodly show of volumes, ranged neatly
side by side, while a curtained recess at one end contained tea-cups and canister, and a small
metal kettle, as scrupulously bright as on the day when it had left the shop.

An old folding-chair had been painted green, and supplied with frilled cushions.  There was
a sensible little table, holding a hand-machine, and a work-basket--yawning apart, it is true,
but neatly strapped to prevent accident; and on the mantelpiece a crowd of photographs, and
a few oddments of blue china, all carefully dusted by the owner's hand, and set out with artistic
effect. 

(Hops forward with a cold dignity, holding one foot in his hand.) You seem in some excitement,
EMILY?

Emily (wildly). You, PETER!... tell me--have you found a pin?

Peter (with deadly calm). Unhappy girl--I have! (To Bridesmaids.) Withdraw awhile, and when
we need you, we will summon you. (Exeunt Bridesmaids; EMILY and PETER stand facing each other
for some moments in dead silence.) The pin is found--for I have trodden
on it, and may, for aught I know, be lamed for life. Speak, EMILY,
what is that maid's desert whose carelessness has led to this mishap?

Emily
(in the desperate hope of shielding herself). Why, should the fault
be traced to any maid, instant dismissal shall be her reward, with
a month's wages paid in lieu of notice!

Mollie's domain of "Bellevue" comprised the square-shaped window, on the sill of which she
cultivated nasturtiums and mignonette in summer, and in the embrasure stood a window-seat covered
with blue cloth, that was really the remains of an old winter skirt.

Visitors to "Bellevue" always paused to admire the sprays of flowers which were embroidered
here and there on this blue background; and then Mollie "dissembled," as she called it, smiling
sweet recognition of the praise, but never once breathing the secret that the whole being and
intent of these flowers was to hide the joins beneath.

She also possessed a table and a work-basket; but the former was decidedly ancient and insecure
as to legs, while the basket made no pretence of shutting, but looked on unabashed while its
contents lay scattered over the rug.

A dressmaker's stand stood in the corner, on which a blouse, more or less complete, was invariably
pinned, waiting for the moment when Mollie had time to devote to her favourite occupation.
There were no book- shelves, but a litter of magazines behind a cushion on the window-seat,
and innumerable photographs were secured to the wall by black-headed pins, to fade slowly but
surely into unrecognition in the unbroken glare of light.

Mollie herself pined for curtains to mitigate the draught during the winter months, but the
three other inmates of Attica loudly declared that they could not spare a fraction of light,
so she gave way smiling, as her custom was.  Mollie never grumbled; it was so dull, as she
said, and she loved to be gay.  An invincible cheeriness of heart carried her gallantly over
the quicksands in which Ruth was submerged by reason of her moodiness, and Trix by her quick
temper, and made it a physical impossibility to repine over the inevitable.

Fifteen-year-old Trix was in that stage when the Oxford examination seems the end-all and be-all
of existence.  Her section of Attica was proudly dubbed "The Study," and had its walls covered
with maps, class lists, and "memos" of great variety.  The desk was strewn with papers and
exercise-books, and there lingered in the air that indescribable scent of sponge, slate, indiarubber,
and freshly sharpened pencils which seem inseparable from youthful study.

Trix confessed to one weakness,--only one!--an overwhelming greed for pencil-boxes and sharpeners,
and the contents of the wooden shelf above the desk testified to her indulgence in this craving.
"The girls gave them to me!" she used to say when strangers exclaimed at the number of the
piled-up boxes, but she blushed even as she spoke, knowing well that to keep sixpence in her
pocket and pass a pencil-box of a new design, was a feat of self-denial beyond imagination.

Dear, chubby, placid Betty was only thirteen, and cared for nothing in the world but her relations,
chocolate-creams, and scrambling through the day's classes with as little exertion as possible.
She shivered in her corner, poor mite, sucking audibly, to the distraction of her elders, the
while she skimmed over her lessons, and looked forward to the time when she would be free to
devote herself to the hobby of the hour.

Sometimes it was postcards; sometimes it was stamps; sometimes it was penny toys collected
from street vendors.  It had once soared as high as autographs, and a promising beginning of
three signatures were already pasted into the remaining leaves of an exercise-book.  Whatever
the collection might be, it lived in heaps on the uncarpeted floor; and when Betty had a tidy
fit, was covered with a crochet antimacassar which had known better days, and had grown decidedly
mellow in tint.

On this particular afternoon, the two younger sisters were taking tea with school friends,
while their elders enjoyed an uninterrupted tete- a-tete, when they could indulge in a favourite
game.  When life was unusually flat and prosaic, when the weather was wet, invitations conspicuous
by their absence, and the want of pocket-money particularly poignant, Mollie would cry ardently:
"Let's be Berengaria and Lucille!" and, presto! the two girls were transplanted to another
world--a world with the magic letter W added to its address, where empty purses and dyed dresses
existed not, and all was joy, jewellery, and junketing. 

Did they not own just now that you had heard the falling of a pin--yet heeded not? Behold the outcome
of your negligence!

[Extends his injured foot.

Emily. Oh, let me kiss the place and make it well!
Peter (coldly withdrawing foot). Keep your caresses till I ask for
them. My wound goes deeper than you wot of yet, and by that disregarded
pin is pricked the iridescent bubble of Illusion!

Emily (slowly).
Indeed, I do not wholly comprehend.

Peter. Have patience and I will
be plainer yet.

"Quick's the word and sharp's the action!" cried Mollie cheerily.  "Now for a grand old cobble;
and if there are any heels out to-day, my fine young gentlemen, don't blame me if you have
to tread on knots for the rest of the week!  It's the strangest thing on earth that I can remember
nice things year after year without an effort, and yet forget this horrid mending every Saturday
as regularly as the day comes round."

"Carelessness!" replied Ruth shortly, and with the candour of near relations.  "I couldn't
forget if I tried.  First thing when I wake in the morning I think of all the bothersome duties
I have to do in the day, and the last thing at night I am thinking of them still.  But you
are so frivolous, Mollie!"

"And you are so morbid, my dear!  You don't offer to help me, I observe; and since you are
so conscientious as all that, I should think you might lend me a hand in my extremity.  There!
I'll give you Ransome's for a treat; he breaks out at the toes, but his heels are intact. 
It's playwork mending for him compared with the other boys."

She tossed a collection of brown woollen stockings into her sister's lap, and Ruth took them
up, frowning heavily with her black brows, but never dreaming of refusing the request, though
her own share of the household mending had kept her employed during the earlier part of the
afternoon, while Mollie was amusing herself elsewhere.  She took a darning-egg out of her basket,
threaded a needle daintily, and set to work in the painstaking manner which characterised all
her efforts; but she sighed as she worked, and Mollie sang, and that was the difference between
them.

"Don't make such a noise, Mollie; you make my head ache.  Another time, I wish you would do
your mending when I do mine, and then we should get a chance of a rest.  Just to-day, too,
when the girls are out!  I hate a large family, where there is never any privacy or repose.
I wish the pater could afford to send the boys to a boarding-school.  It would be the making
of them, and such a blessing to us."

Mollie pursed her lips disapprovingly.

"I'd miss them horribly.  They are naughty, of course, and noisy and tiresome, and make no
end of work, but that's the nature of boys; on the other hand, they are full of fun and good-humour,
if you take them the right way.  And they are affectionate little ruffians, too; and so good-
looking.  I'm proud of them on Sundays, in their Eton suits."

"But there's only one Sunday, and six long days of shabbiness and patches!  Bruce ought to
have a new school suit; the one he is wearing has descended from the other two, and is disgracefully
shabby.  I spoke to mother about it to-day, and she said she had intended to buy one this month,
but business was bad, and there was the coal bill to pay.  The old story!  Business always
is bad, and the coal bill is ever with us!"

Mollie crinkled her brows, and for a fraction of a second her face clouded.

"There's no hope for me, then!  I was going to plead for an extra sovereign to carry me to
the end of the quarter, for I've spent my last cent, and there are one or two absolute necessities
which I shall have to get by hook or by crook, or stay in bed until the next allowance is due.
Well; something will turn up, I suppose!  It's always the darkest the hour before the dawn,
and, financially speaking, it's pitch black at the present moment.  Let's pretend Uncle Bernard
suddenly appeared upon the scene, and presented us each with a handsome cheque."

"I'm tired of Uncle Bernard!  Ever since I was a child I have heard about him and his eccentricities,
and his house, and his wealth, and that we were his nearest relatives, and that some day he
would surely remember us, and break his silence; but he never has, so now I look upon him as
a sort of mythological figure who has no real existence.  If he cared anything about us he
would have written long ago.  I expect he has forgotten our very existence, and left all his
money to charities."

"I expect he has, but it's fun to pretend.  Suppose he remembered my birthday and sent me a
ten-pound note!  Fancy me, my dear, with a whole ten pounds to spend as I liked.  What fun
we'd have!  Most of it would have to go in useful things, but we'd take a sovereign or two
and have a reckless burst just to see what it was like.  A hansom to town, lunch at a real
swagger restaurant; and, after that, good seats at a matinee, ices between the acts, and another
hansom home, instead of shivering at the corner waiting for omnibuses.  Oh, bliss!  Oh, rapture!
If it could only come true!  If uncle would once come to see us, he couldn't help liking us;
could he?"

"He'd like me best, because I am pretty," said Ruth calmly.

"He'd like me best, because I am so nice!" contradicted Mollie.  And then they looked at each
other, and each made a little grimace, supposed to express scorn and contempt, but in reality
there was so complete an understanding beneath the pretence that it was almost as expressive
as a caress.

After this came a few minutes' silence, while the two needles were woven diligently to and
fro; then--

"Mollie!" said Ruth suddenly, "I've come to a decision.  I've been thinking it over for ages,
so don't imagine it's a whim, or that I don't mean what I say.  It's time that one of us turned
out and earned some money on our own account, and, as I'm the eldest, I'm the one to go. Business
gets worse and worse, and expenses increase, and must go on increasing, as the children grow
up.  Trix will be sixteen in summer; in less than two years she will leave school, and three
grown-up daughters are not needed in any house when the mother is well and strong.  I once
thought of waiting until then; but I am twenty-two now, and, if I am to do any good, there
is no time to waste.  You could get along without me even now."

The half-darned sock fell on Mollie's knee, and for once the sunny face looked thoroughly shocked
and startled.

"I couldn't--I couldn't!  None of us could!  What would happen if everything depended on me?
You remind me, and keep me up to the mark, and help me out of scrapes.  I should be at my wit's
end without you. Mother consults you about everything, and the girls obey you, and the boys
pay more attention to you than they do to anyone else.  Ruth, everybody needs you?"

"They love you best," Ruth said quietly.  And the dark brows wrinkled in wistful fashion.

It was the truth that she was speaking, no empty striving for compliments; but why was it the
truth?  She worked hard; Mollie idled. She was conscientious, self-sacrificing, and methodical;
Mollie knew not the meaning of method, and was frankly selfish on occasions.  She worried herself
ill about ways and means, and kept sedulously within the bounds of her small allowance; Mollie
took no heed for the morrow, and was in a chronic condition of penury or debt.

Despite these striking contrasts, the fact remained, however, that if any member of the household
were ill, or had a secret to confide, or a favour to request, they betook themselves to the
heedless Mollie, rather than to herself.  Dearly as she loved her sister, Ruth felt a little
rankling of soreness mingling with her mystification.  She did not yet realise the magic power
which cheerfulness wields in this world, or the charm of a sunny face and a ready rippling
laugh.  Hearts turn to the sun as instinctively as plants, and forgive much for the sake of
the warmth and glow.

"They love you best," said Ruth, and honest Mollie did not contradict, but stretched out her
hand, and laid it caressingly on her sister's arm.

"But I love you, and I can't do without you, Ruth!  I couldn't live alone, for you and I belong
to each other.  The others are dears in their way; but they are only `steps,' and we two seem
so close together. Imagine Attica without you!  Imagine going to bed alone, with no one to
talk to about the events of the day!  What does the horrid old money matter?  We always have
been poor, and we always shall be.  As long as I can remember mother has been in despair about
the bills; but we wriggle through somehow, and we shall go on wriggling.  It's horrid of you
to talk of going away!  Think of me!"

"That's selfish, Mollie.  You are the last person I ought to think of just now.  Mother comes
first, and the poor old pater, and all those children.  It comes to this, that I can't stand
the present state of affairs any longer.  I feel ashamed of taking even the pittance we have;
and I'm tired of the pittance, too, and want to make money for myself, and not have to think
a dozen times over before spending a penny!"

Mollie laughed--a pert, derisive little laugh.

"Sounds well, my dear; but, if it comes to that, what can you do? I shall not bear a boot for
many days! Thus ends our wedding morn, and she, poor child, has paid the penalty of heedlessness!

[Curtain
falls, whereupon, unless Mr. Punch is greatly mistaken, there will
not be a dry eye in the house.
Besides, talking of pittances, you'd get less than nothing if you did try it.  I don't see
what you could do to earn a living."

"I could be a hospital nurse!"

"Perhaps you might--a bad one--for you don't like nursing, and would only do it for the sake
of the pay.  I should have no respect for you if you did that, Ruth.  It would be too hard
on the unfortunate patients?"

"I could be a companion--"

"People who want companions are old, or gouty, or mad; invariably disagreeable, or why have
they to advertise for a friend?  I think I see you shut up with a trying old lady, combing
the lap-dog's hair, and winding wool!  You wouldn't be a very agreeable companion, Ruthans
dear. Better make the best of things, and stay where you are."

Ruth made no further protest, but her lips tightened with an expression of determination. 
Her mind being made up, she was not easily swayed from her purpose.  She decided to talk to
her mother on the subject on the following morning.

CHAPTER TWO.

AN EVENING AT HOME.

The father of Ruth and Mollie Farrell had died when the latter was two years old, leaving his
wife but a few hundred pounds with which to support herself and her children.  She was a pretty,
winsome creature, the sort of woman who attracts sympathy and love, but a most difficult person
to help.

Friends came forward with suggestions and offers of assistance, and Mrs Farrell thanked them
ardently, and wept, and agreed to all that they said.  In words, she was ready to undertake
any exertion, however arduous; but when it came to deeds, she was so weak, so incapable, so
hopelessly confused, that the school, the boarding-house, and the home for Indian children
ended successively in failure.

At the end of three years her scanty capital was almost exhausted; but at this critical moment
the Fates--which seem to take special care of the helpless ones of the earth--sent Ernest Connor
to play the part of rescuer.  He was a round stone in a square hole, that is to say, a student
by nature, who, by the exigencies of fortune, found himself doomed to a business life, wherein
he was a painstaking but consistent failure.

Nervous and shy, he shrank from the society of women; but it was impossible to be shy with
the irresponsible little widow, who confided all her troubles to him on the first day of their
acquaintance, and asked his advice with tears in her pretty eyes.  To his amazement, he found
himself confiding his own troubles in return, and the ready sympathy accorded to them seemed
the sweetest thing in the world.  A month after their first meeting he asked her to be his
wife, explaining honestly his financial position, and the uncertainty of improvement in the future.

"But you will help me!" he said.  "The money will go twice as far when you hold the purse!"

And Mrs Farrell agreed with ardour, unabashed by previous failures. She went to her new home
full of love and gratitude, and, let it be said at once, never had cause to regret the step
in after years.

Ernest Connor was a devoted husband, and a most kindly father to the two little girls; but
life was not easy.  It was a constant strain to make ends meet, and as Trix, and Betty, and
Drummond, and Ransome, and Bruce came in quick succession to fill the nursery, the strain grew
even more and more acute.

