"It's true as gospel; I seen it myself. Well, Archy's young. He'll know better one of these days."

"Say, boys, who do you reckon done it?"

That was a difficult question, and brought out a world of unsatisfying conjecture. Various
men were mentioned as possibilities, but one by one they were discarded as not being eligible. That is why they say that everything is a upset and backward. To the blessed heavens, and
Pulido is right when he speaks of the (very?) fat (rigolucion?), (very?) fat, which has come to bring
under control the miserable wealthy and to extol the poor. There was one name that was upon every tongue from the start,
but it was the last to get utterance--Fetlock Jones's. It was Pat Riley that mentioned it.

"Oh, well," the boys said, "of course we've all thought of him, because he had a million rights
to kill Flint Buckner, and it was just his plain duty to do it. But all the same there's two
things we can't get around, for one thing, he hasn't got the sand; and for another, he wasn't
anywhere near the place when it happened."

"I know it," said Pat. "He was there in the billiard-room with us when it happened."

"Yes, and was there all the time for an hour before it happened."

"It's so. And lucky for him, too. He'd have been suspected in a minute if it hadn't been for that."

III

The tavern dining-room had been cleared of all its furniture save one six-foot pine table and
a chair. This table was against one end of the room; the chair was on it; Sherlock Holmes,
stately, imposing, impressive, sat in the chair. The public stood. The room was full. The tobacco-smoke
was dense, the stillness profound.

The Extraordinary Man raised his hand to command additional silence; held it in the air a few
moments; then, in brief, crisp terms he put forward question after question, and noted the
answers with "Um-ums," nods of the head, and so on. By this process he learned all about Flint
Buckner, his character, conduct, and habits, that the people were able to tell him. It thus
transpired that the Extraordinary Man's nephew was the only person in the camp who had a killing-grudge
against Flint Buckner. Mr. Holmes smiled compassionately upon the witness, and asked, languidly--

"Do any of you gentlemen chance to know where the lad Fetlock Jones was at the time of the
explosion?"

A thunderous response followed--

"In the billiard-room of this house!"

"Ah. And had he just come in?"

"Been there all of an hour!"

"Ah. It is about--about--well, about how far might it be to the scene of the explosions."

"All of a mile!"

"Ah. It isn't much of an alibi, 'tis true, but--"

A storm-burst of laughter, mingled with shouts of "By jiminy, but he's chain-lightning!" and
"Ain't you sorry you spoke, Sandy?" shut off the rest of the sentence, and the crushed witness
drooped his blushing face in pathetic shame. The inquisitor resumed:

"The lad Jones's somewhat distant connection with the case" (laughter) "having been disposed
of, let us now call the eye-witnesses of the tragedy, and listen to what they have to say."

He got out his fragmentary clues and arranged them on a sheet of cardboard on his knee. The
house held its breath and watched.

"We have the longitude and the latitude, corrected for magnetic variation, and this gives us
the exact location of the tragedy. We have the altitude, the temperature, and the degree of
humidity prevailing--inestimably valuable, since they enable us to estimate with precision
the degree of influence which they would exercise upon the mood and disposition of the assassin
at that time of the night."

(Buzz of admiration; muttered remark, "By George, but he's deep!") He fingered his clues. "And
now let us ask these mute witnesses to speak to us.

"Here we have an empty linen shot-bag. What is its message? This: that robbery was the motive,
not revenge. What is its further message? This: that the assassin was of inferior intelligence--shall
we say light-witted, or perhaps approaching that? How do we know this? Because a person of
sound intelligence would not have proposed to rob the man Buckner, who never had much money
with him. But the assassin might have been a stranger? Let the bag speak again. I take from
it this article. It is a bit of silver-bearing quartz. It is peculiar. Examine it, please--you--and
you--and you. Now pass it back, please. There is but one lode on this coast which produces
just that character and color of quartz; and that is a lode which crops out for nearly two
miles on a stretch, and in my opinion is destined, at no distant day, to confer upon its locality
a globe-girdling celebrity, and upon its two hundred owners riches beyond the dreams of avarice.
Name that lode, please."

"The Consolidated Christian Science and Mary Ann!" was the prompt response.

A wild crash of hurrahs followed, and every man reached for his neighbor's hand and wrung it,
with tears in his eyes; and Wells-Fargo Ferguson shouted, "The Straight Flush is on the lode,
and up she goes to a hunched and fifty a foot--you hear me!"

When quiet fell, Mr. Holmes resumed:

"We perceive, then, that three facts are established, to wit: the assassin was approximately
light-witted; he was not a stranger; his motive was robbery, not revenge. Let us proceed. I
hold in my hand a small fragment of fuse, with the recent smell of fire upon it. What is its
testimony? Taken with the corroborative evidence of the quartz, it reveals to us that the assassin
was a miner. What does it tell us further? This, gentlemen: that the assassination was consummated
by means of an explosive. What else does it say? This: that the explosive was located against
the side of the cabin nearest the road--the front side--for within six feet of that spot I
found it.

"I hold in my fingers a burnt Swedish match--the kind one rubs on a safety-box. I found it
in the road, six hundred and twenty-two feet from the abolished cabin. What does it say? This:
that the train was fired from that point. What further does it tell us? This: that the assassin
was left-handed. How do I know this? I should not be able to explain to you, gentlemen, how
I know it, the signs being so subtle that only long experience and deep study can enable one
to detect them. But the signs are here, and they are reinforced by a fact which you must have
often noticed in the great detective narratives--that all assassins are left-handed."

"By Jackson, that's so!" said Ham Sandwich, bringing his great hand down with a resounding
slap upon his thigh; "blamed if I ever thought of it before."

"Nor I!" "Nor I!" cried several. "Oh, there can't anything escape him--look at his eye!"

"Gentlemen, distant as the murderer was from his doomed victim, he did not wholly escape injury.
This fragment of wood which I now exhibit to you struck him. It drew blood. Wherever he is,
he bears the telltale mark. I picked it up where he stood when he fired the fatal train." He
looked out over the house from his high perch, and his countenance began to darken; he slowly
raised his hand, and pointed--

"There stands the assassin!"

For a moment the house was paralyzed with amazement; then twenty voices burst out with:

"Sammy Hillyer? Oh, hell, no! Him? It's pure foolishness!"

"Take care, gentlemen--be not hasty. Observe--he has the blood-mark on his brow."

Hillyer turned white with fright. He was near to crying. He turned this way and that, appealing
to every face for help and sympathy; and held out his supplicating hands toward Holmes and
began to plead,

"Don't, oh, don't! I never did it; I give my word I never did it. The way I got this hurt on
my forehead was--"

"Arrest him, constable!" cried Holmes. "I will swear out the warrant."

The constable moved reluctantly forward--hesitated--stopped.

Hillyer broke out with another appeal. "Oh, Archy, don't let them do it; it would kill mother!
You know how I got the hurt. Tell them, and save me, Archy; save me!"

Stillman worked his way to the front, and said,

"Yes, I'll save you. Don't be afraid." Then he said to the house, "Never mind how he got the
hurt; it hasn't anything to do with this case, and isn't of any consequence."

"God bless you, Archy, for a true friend!"

"Hurrah for Archy! Go in, boy, and play 'em a knock-down flush to their two pair 'n' a jack!"
shouted the house, pride in their home talent and a patriotic sentiment of loyalty to it rising
suddenly in the public heart and changing the whole attitude of the situation.

Young Stillman waited for the noise to cease; then he said,

"I will ask Tom Jeffries to stand by that door yonder, and Constable Harris to stand by the
other one here, and not let anybody leave the room.

"Said and done. Go on, old man!"

"The criminal is present, I believe. I will show him to you before long, in case I am right
in my guess. Now I will tell you all about the tragedy, from start to finish. The motive wasn't
robbery; it was revenge. The murderer wasn't light-witted. He didn't stand six hundred and
twenty-two feet away. He didn't get hit with a piece of wood. He didn't place the explosive
against the cabin. He didn't bring a shot-bag with him, and he wasn't left-handed. With the
exception of these errors, the distinguished guest's statement of the case is substantially
correct."

A comfortable laugh rippled over the house; friend nodded to friend, as much as to say, "That's
the word, with the bark on it. Good lad, good boy. He ain't lowering his flag any!"

The guest's serenity was not disturbed. Stillman resumed:

"I also have some witnesses; and I will presently tell you where you can find some more." He
held up a piece of coarse wire; the crowd craned their necks to see. "It has a smooth coating
of melted tallow on it. And here is a candle which is burned half-way down. The remaining half
of it has marks cut upon it an inch apart. Soon I will tell you where I found these things.
I will now put aside reasonings, guesses, the impressive hitchings of odds and ends of clues
together, and the other showy theatricals of the detective trade, and tell you in a plain,
straightforward way just how this dismal thing happened."

He paused a moment, for effect--to allow silence and suspense to intensify and concentrate
the house's interest; then he went on:

"The assassin studied out his plan with a good deal of pains. It was a good plan, very ingenious,
and showed an intelligent mind, not a feeble one. It was a plan which was well calculated to
ward off all suspicion from its inventor. Madrid is a corner that we must preserve lovingly as antique collectors,
because the cartoon is also monumental art. Admire in this San Sebastian, inherited from the old
days, the picture ridiculous and rude, and guardémoslo as a nice mess.

To have honors door, the South is the least favored of the faithful in days regular morning
and evening. Almost all of the estate goes to the North, which looks more like door excused or
family. And no need to do statistics of parishioners who come to the sacred cult for either side
because we have an infallible counter: the poor. Much larger and formidable that the South is the
North's crew misery that lurks step charity, the tax collector guard so that the toll charges
humanly border of the divine, or the levy imposed on the consciences impure go where washed.

Those who make the call by the North occupy different positions in the small courtyard and the
two entries in this for the streets of Huertas and San Sebastian, and is so strategic placement, can
not escape any parishioner and not enter the church through the roof. In rigorous winter days,
rain or bitter cold did not allow the intrepid soldiers of misery pointed out in the open (although
there are miracles to hold a firm footing the harshness of the atmosphere), and fall back in good
order to the tunnel or passageway that serves to enter the parish church, forming two right and
left wings. While understanding that this formidable and tactical land-exquisite, does not escape
a Christian and forcing the tunnel is no less difficult and glorious than the memorable pass
of Thermopylae. Among right wing and left wing, no less than a dozen and a half times the embattled
contingent, comprising elderly bold, indomitable old, blind, repetitive, reinforced by children
of aggressiveness irresistible (meaning that these terms are applied to the art of application),
and there are from God dawn until lunchtime, as also that army rations methodically, to return
with renewed vigor to the campaign later. By nightfall, if there is no sermon Novena to Holy
Rosary with meditation and talk, or Adoration, withdrawing the army, every soldier going off
to their olive trees with slow pace. And will continue in his interesting return to the hiding
place where evil lives. For the moment, let us note in his rough struggle for existence mischievous,
and terrible battle, in which we are not find pools of blood and offal military but ferocious
fleas and other vermin.

One March morning, windy and icy, which froze the words in the mouth, and beat the faces of passers
a powder that looked like snow on the cold ground, the army retreated into the passage, leaving only
the iron door of the San Sebastian Street a blind man in years, named Pulido, who must have
brass body, and blood alcohol or mercury, according resisting extreme temperatures, always strong,
healthy, and with a colors that envy gave flowers near post. The florist also retreated the inside
of his box, and getting them the pots and bunches of evergreens, was to weave crowns for dead
children. In the courtyard, which was Zementerio S. Sebastian, as stated tile set into the
wall above the door, there were no more than the few living things the career women who crossed it
to enter the church or leave it, holding mouth with the same hand that carried the prayer book, or a
cleric who was heading to the sacristy, with the wind snatched his cloak, and black bird feathers
cups and stretch their wings, with her clenched hand ensuring the tile, which also wanted to be a
bird and shop around on the tower.

None of the incoming or outgoing Pulido was ignoring the poor, because
they were accustomed to see him on his guard unperturbed, so insensitive
to the snow and the stifling heat, with outstretched hand, clumsily
wrapped in brown cloth worn capita, constantly modulating sad words,
frozen leaving his lips.

That day, the wind played with his white hair beard metiéndoselos pegándoselos the nose and
the face wet with tears to the intense occurred in the dead cold eyes.


"It has none. At present. I say it has none--at present."

He paused. Presently he resumed: "I did not encounter the assassin, but I am on his track,
I am sure, for I believe he is in this room. I will ask you all to pass one by one in front
of me--here, where there is a good light--so that I can see your feet."

A buzz of excitement swept the place, and the march began, the guest looking on with an iron
attempt at gravity which was not an unqualified success. Stillman stooped, shaded his eyes
with his hand, and gazed down intently at each pair of feet as it passed. Fifty men tramped
monotonously by--with no result. Sixty. Seventy. The thing was beginning to look absurd. The
guest remarked, with suave irony,

"Assassins appear to be scarce this evening."

The house saw the humor if it, and refreshed itself with a cordial laugh. Ten or twelve more
candidates tramped by--no, danced by, with airy and ridiculous capers which convulsed the spectators--then
suddenly Stillman put out his hand and said,

"This is the assassin!"

"Fetlock Jones, by the great Sanhedrim!" roared the crowd; and at once let fly a pyrotechnic
explosion and dazzle and confusion of stirring remarks inspired by the situation.

At the height of the turmoil the guest stretched out his hand, commanding peace. The authority
of a great name and a great personality laid its mysterious compulsion upon the house, and
it obeyed. Out of the panting calm which succeeded, the guest spoke, saying, with dignity and
feeling,

"This is serious. It strikes at an innocent life. Innocent beyond suspicion! Innocent beyond
peradventure! Hear me prove it; observe how simple a fact can brush out of existence this witless
lie. Listen. My friends, that lad was never out of my sight yesterday evening at any time!"

It made a deep impression. Men turned their eyes upon Stillman with grave inquiry in them.
His face brightened, and he said,

"I knew there was another one!" He stepped briskly to the table and glanced at the guest's
feet, then up at his face, and said: "You were with him! You were not fifty steps from him
when he lit the candle that by-and-by fired the powder!" (Sensation.) "And what is more, you
furnished the matches yourself!"

Plainly the guest seemed hit; it looked so to the public. He opened his mouth to speak; the
words did not come freely.

"This--er--this is insanity--this--"

Stillman pressed his evident advantage home. He held up a charred match.

"Here is one of them. I found it in the barrel--and there's another one there."

The guest found his voice at once.

"Yes--and put them there yourself!"

It was recognized a good shot. Stillman retorted.

"It is wax--a breed unknown to this camp. I am ready to be searched for the box. Are you?"

The guest was staggered this time--the dullest eye could see it. He fumbled with his hands;
once or twice his lips moved, but the words did not come. The house waited and watched, in
tense suspense, the stillness adding effect to the situation. Presently Stillman said, gently,

"We are waiting for your decision."

There was silence again during several moments; then the guest answered, in a low voice,

"I refuse to be searched."

There was no noisy demonstration, but all about the house one voice after another muttered,

"That settles it! He's Archy's meat."

What to do now? Nobody seemed to know. It was an embarrassing situation for the moment--merely,
of course, because matters had taken such a sudden and unexpected turn that these unpractised
minds were not prepared for it, and had come to a standstill, like a stopped clock, under the
shock. But after a little the machinery began to work again, tentatively, and by twos and threes
the men put their heads together and privately buzzed over this and that and the other proposition.
One of these propositions met with much favor; it was, to confer upon the assassin a vote of
thanks for removing Flint Buckner, and let him go. But the cooler heads opposed it, pointing
out that addled brains in the Eastern states would pronounce it a scandal, and make no end
of foolish noise about it. Finally the cool heads got the upper hand, and obtained general
consent to a proposition of their own; their leader then called the house to order and stated
it--to this effect: that Fetlock Jones be jailed and put upon trial.

The motion was carried. Apparently there was nothing further to do now, and the people were
glad, for, privately, they were impatient to get out and rush to the scene of the tragedy,
and see whether that barrel and the other things were really there or not.

But no--the break-up got a check. The surprises were not over yet. For a while Fetlock Jones
had been silently sobbing, unnoticed in the absorbing excitements which had been following
one another so persistently for some time; but when his arrest and trial were decreed, he broke
out despairingly, and said,

"No! it's no use. I don't want any jail, I don't want any trial; I've had all the hard luck
I want, and all the miseries. Hang me now, and let me out! It would all come out, anyway--there
couldn't anything save me. He has told it all, just as if he'd been with me and seen it--I
don't know how he found out; and you'll find the barrel and things, and then I wouldn't have
any chance any more. I killed him; and you'd have done it too, if he'd treated you like a dog,
and you only a boy, and weak and poor, and not a friend to help you."

"And served him damned well right!" broke in Ham Sandwich. "Looky here, boys--"

From the constable: "Order! Order, gentlemen!"

A voice: "Did your uncle know what you was up to?"

"No, he didn't."

"Did he give you the matches, sure enough?"

"Yes, he did; but he didn't know what I wanted them for."

"When you was out on such a business as that, how did you venture to risk having him along--and
him a detective? How's that?"

The boy hesitated, fumbled with his buttons in an embarrassed way, then said, shyly,

"I know about detectives, on account of having them in the family; and if you don't want them
to find out about a thing, it's best to have them around when you do it."

The cyclone of laughter which greeted this naïve discharge of wisdom did not modify the poor
little waif's embarrassment in any large degree.

IV

From a letter to Mrs. Stillman, dated merely "Tuesday."

Fetlock Jones was put under lock and key in an unoccupied log cabin, and left there to await
his trial. Constable Harris provided him with a couple of days' rations, instructed him to
keep a good guard over himself, and promised to look in on him as soon as further supplies
should be due.

Next morning a score of us went with Hillyer, out of friendship, and helped him bury his late
relative, the unlamented Buckner, and I acted as first assistant pall-bearer, Hillyer acting
as chief. Just as we had finished our labors a ragged and melancholy stranger, carrying an
old hand-bag, limped by with his head down, and I caught the scent I had chased around the
globe! It was the odor of Paradise to my perishing hope!

In a moment I was at his side and had laid a gentle hand upon his shoulder. He slumped to the
ground as if a stroke of lightning had withered him in his tracks; and as the boys came running
he struggled to his knees and put up his pleading hands to me, and out of his chattering jaws
he begged me to persecute him no more, and said,

"You have hunted me around the world, Sherlock Holmes, yet God is my witness I have never done
any man harm!"

A glance at his wild eyes showed us that he was insane. That was my work, mother! The tidings
of your death can some day repeat the misery I felt in that moment, but nothing else can ever
do it. The boys lifted him up, and gathered about him, and were full of pity of him, and said
the gentlest and touchingest things to him, and said cheer up and don't be troubled, he was
among friends now, and they would take care of him, and protect him, and hang any man that
laid a hand on him. They are just like so many mothers, the rough mining-camp boys are, when
you wake up the south side of their hearts; yes, and just like so many reckless and unreasoning
children when you wake up the opposite of that muscle. They did everything they could think
of to comfort him, but nothing succeeded until Wells-Fargo Ferguson, who is a clever strategist,
said,

"If it's only Sherlock Holmes that's troubling you, you needn't worry any more."

"Why?" asked the forlorn lunatic, eagerly.

"Because he's dead again."

"Dead! Dead! Oh, don't trifle with a poor wreck like me. Is he dead? On honor, now--is he telling
me true, boys?"

"True as you're standing there!" said Ham Sandwich, and they all backed up the statement in a body. Watch carefully.

Benina has her sweet voice, is thin, and well mannered. His brown face warped by age still had a
blurred and faint grace. With half of his teeth and large dark eyes,trimmed with red which imposed
age from the cold morning, his nose was still distilled from his fellow workers. His fingers were wrinkled
with swollen joints. These nails were those of a kestrel and of a washer woman. He still maintaine hygienic
habits. He wore a fitting black scarf and black attire. He dress better than the other elderly people.
The lines on his face those of sweet and sentimental expressions. It seemed Santa Rita de Casia
was doing peace for the world. A crucifix near the forehead the size of a pea, round and
blue, located about a half inch above the eyebrows. Around ten o'clock, the Casiana went into
the yard to go to the sacrisy, where he had great and old immaturity, to deal with an unknown concern
for a friend. A foreman was a mockery of the group. Sitting between
two children and the woman named Demetria, he asked, "But what you
will not believe what you said?

The foreman is rich, as rich as you are, and all there we take to the solemnity is day and night."
 So I said I would sell out and get money to live on, and run away until it
blew over and I could come back with my proofs. Then I escaped in the night and went a long
way off in the mountains somewhere, and lived disguised and had a false name.

I got more and more troubled and worried, and my troubles made me see spirits and hear voices,
and I could not think straight and clear on any subject, but got confused and involved and
had to give it up, because my head hurt so. It got to be worse and worse; more spirits and
more voices. They were about me all the time; at first only in the night, then in the day too.
They were always whispering around my bed and plotting against me, and it broke my sleep and
kept me fagged out, because I got no good rest.

And then came the worst. One night the whispers said, "We'll never manage, because we can't
see him, and so can't point him out to the people."

They sighed; then one said: "We must bring Sherlock Holmes. He can be here in twelve days."

They all agreed, and whispered and jibbered with joy. But my heart broke; for I had read about
that man, and knew what it would be to have him upon my track, with his superhuman penetration
and tireless energies.

The spirits went away to fetch him, and I got up at once in the middle of the night and fled
away, carrying nothing but the hand-bag that had my money in it--thirty thousand dollars; two-thirds
of it are in the bag there yet. It was forty days before that man caught up on my track. I
just escaped. From habit he had written his real name on a tavern register, but had scratched
it out and written "Dagget Barclay" in the place of it. The ones who had been with the church for
twenty or more years had privileges above all others, and the newcomers didn't get a choice.
The elders enjoyed the best jobs and they alone were granted the right to go to the front of
the line.


That was the end of the story, and it stirred those boys to blood-heat, be sure of it. As for
me--each word burnt a hole in me where it struck.

We voted that the old man should bunk with us, and be my guest and Hillyer's. I shall keep
my own counsel, naturally; but as soon as he is well rested and nourished, I shall take him
to Denver and rehabilitate his fortunes.

The boys gave the old fellow the bone-mashing good-fellowship handshake of the mines, and then
scattered away to spread the news.

At dawn next morning Wells-Fargo Ferguson and Ham Sandwich called us softly out, and said,
privately,

"That news about the way that old stranger has been treated has spread all around, and the
camps are up. They are piling in from everywhere, and are going to lynch the P'fessor. Constable
Harris is in a dead funk, and has telephoned the sheriff. Come along!"

We started on a run. The others were privileged to feel as they chose, but in my heart's privacy
I hoped the sheriff would arrive in time; for I had small desire that Sherlock Holmes should
hang for my deeds, as you can easily believe. A Demetria gives more recommendations
because of that which celebrates the first Mass, D. Rodriguito purple stockings. They say he is the secretary
of the Pope. -We give you all the meat, bones and ourselves. -We
shall see!

For it is always the same

.


As we tore up the gulch, distant cries and shouts and yells rose faintly on the still air,
and grew steadily in strength as we raced along. Roar after roar burst out, stronger and stronger,
nearer and nearer; and at last, when we closed up upon the multitude massed in the open area
in front of the tavern, the crash of sound was deafening. Some brutal roughs from Daly's gorge
had Holmes in their grip, and he was the calmest man there; a contemptuous smile played about
his lips, and if any fear of death was in his British heart, his iron personality was master
of it and no sign of it was allowed to appear. To
this day! ...

--- Yes I was waiting for my Mr. D. Carlos - said the blind man kissing the coin - because today
is the universario, and you had to miss, but froze the earthquakes
zero (no certainly meant thermometers).

- It's true.

ar after roar burst out, stronger and stronger,
nearer and nearer; and at last, when we closed up upon the multitude massed in the open area
in front of the tavern, the crash of sound was deafening. Some brutal roughs from Daly's gorge
had Holmes in their grip, and he was the calmest man there; a contemptuous smile played about
his lips, and if any fear of death was in his British heart, his iron personality was master
of it and no sign of it was allowed to appear. To
this day! ...

--- Yes I was waiting for my Mr. D. Carlos - said the blind man kissing the coin - because today
is the universario, and you had to miss, but froze the earthquakes
zero (no certainly meant thermometers).

- It's true.



The gangs from all the outlying camps burst out in a thunder-crash of approval, and went struggling
and surging toward the prisoner, and closed around him, shouting, "Fire! fire's the ticket!"
They dragged him to the horse-post, backed him against it, chained him to it, and piled wood
and pine cones around him waist-deep. Still the strong face did not blench, and still the scornful
smile played about the thin lips.

"A match! fetch a match!"

