"Some of the Red Cross ladies from up Craigswold way were here this morning, to have me nail
that sign on the store," reported the postmaster. "They're  making a tour of all the towns
hereabouts. They asked me to try to int'rest folks at Hampton in their  show, too, and get
them to make entries. They left  me a bunch of blanks. Want one?"

"Yep," said Link. "I guess I'll take one if it don't cost nothin', please."

He studied the proffered entry blank with totally uncomprehending gaze. The postmaster came
to his relief.

"Let me show you," he suggested, taking pity on his customer's wrinkled brow and squinting
helplessness. "I've had some experience in this folderol. I took my Airedale over to the Ridgewood
show last spring and got a third with him. I'm going to take him up to Craigswold on Labor
Day, too. What kind of dog is yours?"

"The dandiest dawg that ever stood on four legs," answered Link, afire with the zeal of ownership.
"Why, that dawg of mine c'n--"

"What breed is he?" asked the postmaster, not interested in the dawning rhapsody.

"Oh--breed?" repeated Link. "Why, I don't rightly know. Some kind of a bird dawg, I guess.
Yes. A bird dawg. But he's sure the grandest--"

"Is he the dog you had down here, one day last month?" asked the postmaster, with a gleam of
recollection.

"Yep. That's him," assented Link. "Only dawg I've got. Only dawg I ever had. Only dawg I ever
want to have. He's--"

But the postmaster was not attending. His time was limited. So, taking out a fountain pen,
he had begun to scribble on the blank. Filling in Link's name and address, he wrote, in the
"breed and sex" spaces, the words, "Scotch collie, sable-and-white, male."

"Name?" he queried, breaking in on Ferris's rambling eulogy.

"Huh?" asked the surprised Link, adding: "Oh, his name, hey? I call him 'Chum.' You see, that
dawg's more like a chum to me than--"

"No use asking about his pedigree, I suppose," resumed the postmaster, "I mean who his parents
were and--"

"Nope," said Link. "I--I found him. His leg was--"

"Pedigree unknown," wrote the postmaster; then, "What classes are you entering him for?"

"Classes?" repeated Link dully. "Why, I just want to put him into that contest for 'best dawg,'
you see. He--"

"Hold on!" interposed the postmaster  impatiently. "You don't catch the idea. In each breed
there are a certain number of classes: 'Puppy,' 'Novice,' 'Limit,' 'Open,' and so on. The dogs
that get a blue ribbon--that's first prize--in these classes all have to appear in what is
called the 'Winners Class.' Then the dog that gets 'Winner's'--the dog that gets first prize
in this 'Winners' Class'--competes for best dog of his breed in the show. After that--as a
'special'--the best in all the different breeds are brought into the ring. And the dog that
wins in that final class is adjudged the 'best in the show.' He's the dog in this particular
show that will get Colonel Marden's hundred-dollar cash prize. See what I mean?"

"Ye-es," replied Link, after digesting carefully what he had heard. "I guess so. But--"

"Since you've never shown your dog before," went on the postmaster, beginning to warm with
professional interest, "you can enter him in the 'Novice Class.' That's generally the easiest.
If he loses in that, no harm's done. If he wins he has a chance later in the 'Winners' Class.'
I'm mailing my entry to-night to the committee. If you like, I'll send yours along with it.
Give me a dollar."

While Link extracted a greasy dollar bill from his pocket, the postmaster filled in the class
space with the word "Novice."

"Thanks for helpin' me out," said Ferris, grateful for the lift.

"That's all right," returned the postmaster, pocketing the bill and folding the blank, as he
prepared to end the interview by moving away. "Be sure to have your dog at the gate leading
into the Craigswold Country Club grounds promptly at ten o'clock on Labor Day. If you don't
get a  card and a tag sent to you, before then, tell your name to the clerk at the table there,
and he'll give you a number. Tie your dog to the stall with that number on it, and be sure
to have him ready to go into the ring when his number is called. That's all."

"Thanks!" said Link, again. "An' now I guess I'll go back home an' commence brightenin' Chum
up, a wee peckle, on his tricks. Maybe I'll have time to learn him some new ones, too. I want
him to make a hit with them judges, an' everything."

"Tricks?" scoffed the postmaster, pausing as he started to walk away. "Dogs don't need tricks
in the show ring. All you have to do is to lead your dog into the ring, and parade him round
with the rest of them till the judge tells you to stop. Then he'll make them stand on the show
platform while he examines them. The dog's only 'tricks' are to stand and walk at his best,
and to look alert, so the judge can see the shape of his ears and get his expression. Teach
your dog to walk around with you, on the leash, without hanging back, and to prick up his ears
and stand at attention when you tell him to. That's all he needs to do. The judge will do the
rest. Have him clean and well brushed, of course."

"I--I sure feel bitter sorry for there other dawgs at the show!" mumbled Link. "A hundred dollars!
Of all the dawgs that ever happened, Chummie is that one! Why, there ain't a thing he can't
do, from herdin' sheep to winnin' a wad of soft money! An'--an' he's all MINE."

CHAPTER III.

The Ordeal

By dawn on Labor Day Link Ferris was astir. A series of discomfiting baths and repeated currying
with the dandy brush had made Chum's grand coat stand out in shimmering fluffiness. A course
of carefully-conducted circular promenades on the end of a chain had taught the dog to walk
gaily and unrestrainedly in leash. And any of several cryptic words, relating to hypothetical
rats, and so forth, were quite enough to send up his ears.

It was sheer excitement that brought Link broad awake before sunrise on that  day of days.
Ferris was infected with the most virulent form of that weird malady known as "dog-showitis."
At first he had been tempted solely by the hope of winning the hundred-dollar prize. But latterly
the urge of victory had gotten into his blood. And he yearned, too, to let the world see what
a marvelous dog was his.

He hurried through the morning chores, then dressed himself in his shabby best and hitched
his horse to the antiquated Concord buggy--a vehicle he had been washing for the state occasion
almost as vehemently as he had scrubbed Chum. 

Scott was then compelled to undertake the long march for Sackett's Harbor by way of Rochester,
Canandaigua, and Utica. The march was accomplished under many difficulties and with much suffering,
as it rained almost incessantly, and the roads were in the worst of conditions. On his arrival
in advance of his troops, he was appointed to the command of a battalion
under Colonel Macomb.

Being in command of the advance of the army in the descent of the St. Lawrence, he was not present
at the engagement at Chrysler's Farm on November 11th.

At that time, in conjunction with Colonel Dennis, he was forcing a passage near Cornwall,
under fire of a British force, which he routed, and captured many
prisoners.

The day before the occurrence of the affair just mentioned he landed at Fort Matilda, commanding
a narrow place on the river, where he gained possession of the fort. The expedition which was announced
for the conquest of Canada was, on November 12th, abandoned by its
leader and projector, General Wilkinson, who commanded a retreat.

This occurred when Scott was fifteen miles in advance of Chrysler's Field, there being no body
of British troops between him and Montreal, and the garrison at the latter place had only four
hundred marines and two hundred sailors.
Wilkinson's defense for his failure was that General Hampton had
refused to join him at St. Regis for fear of lack of provisions and
forage.
In the middle of this space, which Link rightly guessed to be the judging ring, stood a very
low wooden platform. At one side of the ring were a chair and a table, where sat a steward
in a Palm Beach suit, fussily turning over the leaves of a ledger and assorting a heap of high-packed
and vari-colored ribbons.

Link, mindful of instructions, bore to the right in search of a stall labeled "65." As he went,
he noted that the dogs were benched in such a way that each breed  had a section to itself.
Thus, while he was still some distance away from his designated bench, he saw that he was coming
into a section of dogs which, in general aspect, resembled Chum. Above this aggregation, as
over others, hung a lettered sign. And this especial sign read "Collie Section."

So Chum was a "collie"--whatever that might be. Link took it to be a fancy term for "bird dog."
He had seen the word before somewhere. And he remembered now that it had been in the advertisement
that offered seventy-five dollars for the return of a lost "sable-and-white collie." Yes, and
Dominie Jansen had said, "sable" meant "black." Link felt a glow of relief that the advertisement
had not said "a brown-and-white collie."

Chum was viewing his new surroundings with much attention, looking up now and then into his
master's face as they moved along the rackety line--as though to gain reassurance that all
was well.

To a high-strung and sensitive dog a show is a terrific ordeal. But Chum, like the aristocrat
he was, bore its preliminaries with debonair calm.

Arriving at Bench 65 in the collie section, Link enthroned his dog there, fastening the chain's
free end to a ring in the stall's corner. Then, after seeing that the water pan was where Chum
could reach it in case he were thirsty and that the straw made a comfortable couch for him,
Ferris once more patted the worried dog and told him everything was all right. After which
Link proceeded to take a survey of the neighboring collies, the sixteen dogs which were to
be Chum's competitors.

His first appraising glance of the double row of collies caused the furrow between his  eyes
to vanish and brought a grin of complacent satisfaction to his thin lips. For he did not see
a single entrant that, in his eyes, seemed to have a ghost of a chance against his idolized
pet--not a dog as handsome or with half the look of intelligence or with the proudly gay bearing
of Chum.

Of the sixteen other collies the majority were sables of divers shades. There were three tricolors
and two mist-hued merles. Over nearly all the section's occupants a swarm of owners and handlers
were just now busy with brush and cloth. For word had come that collies were to be the second
breed judged that day. The first breed was to be the Great Danes. As there were but three Danes
in the show, their judging would be brief. And it behooved the collies' attendants to have
their entries ready.

Link, following the example of those around him, took from his pocket the molting dandy brush
and set to work once more on Chum's coat. He observed that the rest were brushing their dogs'
fur against the grain, to make it fluff up. And he reversed his own former process in imitation
of them. He had supposed until now that a collie's hair, like a man's, ought to be slicked
down smooth for state occasions. And it troubled him to find that Chum's coat rebelled against
such treatment. Now, under the reverse process, it stood out in wavy freedom.

At the adjoining stall to the left a decidedly pretty girl was watching a groom put the finishing
touches to the toilet of her tricolor collie. Link heard her exclaim in protest as the groom
removed from the dog's collar a huge cerise bow she had just affixed there.

"Sorry, Miss," Ferris heard the groom explain, "but it's agin rules for a dog to go in the
ring with a ribbon on. If the judge thinks he's good enough for a ribbon he'll award him one.
But--"

"Oh, he simply can't help awarding one to Morven, here!" broke in the girl. "CAN he, Stokes?"

"Hard to say, Miss," answered the groom imperturbably, as he wrought with brush and cloth.
"Judges has their own ideas. We'll have to hope for the best for him and not be too sick if
he gets gated."

"Gated?" echoed the girl--an evident newcomer to the realm of showdom.

"Yes, Miss," expounded the groom. "'Gated' means 'shown the gate.' Some judges thins out a
class that way, by sending the poorest dogs out of the ring first. Then again, some judges--"

"Oh, I'm glad I wore this dress!" sighed the girl. "It goes so well with Morven's color. Perhaps
the judge--"

"Excuse me, Miss," put in the groom, trying not to laugh, "but the collie judge to-day is Fred
Leightonhe bred the great Howgill Rival, you know--and when Leighton is in the ring, he hasn't
got eyes for anything but the dogs themselves. Begging your pardon, he wouldn't notice if you
was to wear a horse blanket. At that, Leighton's the squarest and the best--"

"Look!" whispered the girl, whose attention had wandered and whose roving gaze had settled
on Chum. "Look at that dog in the next bench. Isn't he magnificent?"

Link swelled with pride at the lowspoken praise. And turning away to hide his satisfaction,
he saw that quite a sizable knot of spectators had gathered in front of Chum's bench. Fort Erie
was invested, attacked, and soon surrendered, and on the morning of the 4th Scott's brigade moved
in advance in the direction of Chippewa. He was engaged for a distance of sixteen miles in a
running fight with the British forces under the Marquis of Tweedale.

Toward night the Marquis of Tweedale crossed the Chippewa River and joined the main army under
General Sir Phineas Riall.

Scott then took position on a creek some two miles from Chippewa. On the east was the Niagara River
and the road to Chippewa, while an the west was a heavy wood.

Between the wood and the river were two streams--the Chippewa and Street's Creek. General
Riall, the British commander, was posted behind the Chippewa, flanked
on one side with a blockhouse and a heavy battery on the other.

 He saw that all three were on leather leashes and that their chains had been left
in the stalls. Presumably there was a law against chains in the ring. And Link had no leash.

For an instant he was in a quandary. Then his brow cleared. True, he had no leash. Yet, if
chains, like bows of ribbon, were barred from the ring, he could maneuver Chum every bit as
well with his voice as with any leash. So that problem was solved.

A minute later, the three pups reappeared at the end of the section. And behind them came the
attendant, intoning:

"Novice Class, Male Scotch Collies! Numbers 64, 65, 66, 67."

There was an absurd throbbing in Link Ferris's meridian. His calloused hands shook as he unchained
Chum and motioned him to leap from the bench to the ground.

Chum obeyed, but with evident uneasiness. His odd surroundings were getting on the collie's
nerves. Link bent over him, under pretense of giving him a farewell rub with the brush.

"It's all right, Chummie!" he crooned soothingly. "It's all RIGHT! I'm here. An' nobody's goin'
to bother you none. You're a-helpin' me win that hundred. An' you're lettin' these gold-shirt
folks see what a clam' gorgeous dawg you be! Come along, ol' friend!"

Under the comfort of his god's voice, Chum's nervousness fled. Safe in his sublime trust that
his master would let no harm befall him, the collie trotted toward the ring at Ferris's heels.

Three other novice dogs were already in the ring when Link arrived at the narrow opening. The
steward was sitting at the table as before. At the corner of the ring, alongside the platform,
stood a man in tweeds, unlighted pipe in mouth, half-shut shrewd eyes studying the dogs as
they filed in through the gap in the ropes. The inscrutable eyes flickered ever so little at
sight of Chum, but at once resumed their former disinterested gaze.

"Walk close!" whispered Link as the parade started.

Chum, hearing a command he had long since learned, ranged himself at Ferris's side and paced
majestically in the procession of four. Two of the other novice dogs were straining at their
leashes; the third was hanging back and pawing frantically to break away. Chum, unleashed,
guided only by the voice, drew every eye to him by his rare beauty and his lofty self-possession.

But he was not allowed to finish the parade. Stepping up to Ferris, Judge Leighton tapped him
on the arm.

"Take your dog over to that corner," he ordered, "and keep him there."

Link fought back a yearning to punch the judge, and surlily he obeyed the mandate. On the 24th
General Brown marched to Sackett's Harbor, where Scott established a camp of instruction. On
assembling of the army at Buffalo, Scott was assigned to the command of the Ninth, Eleventh, and
Twenty-fifth Regiments of infantry, with a part of the Twenty-second
Regiment and Captain Towson's company of artillery.

In addition to this command there were at this time at Buffalo the commands of Generals Porter
and Eleazer Wheelock Ripley. The whole force was placed in camp under General Scott's immediate
direction.


But Ferris did not reach the gate unchecked.

Judge Leighton had ended the parade and had stood the three dogs, one by one and then two at
a time, on the platform while he studied them. Then he had crossed to the table and picked
up the judging book and four ribbons--one blue, one red, one yellow and one white. Three of
these ribbons he handed to the three contestants' handlers.

Then he stepped across the ring to where Ferris was edging his way toward the exit; and handed
Link the remaining ribbon. It was dark blue, with gilt lettering.

Leighton did not so much as subject Chum to the handling and close inspection he had lavished
on the three others. One expert glance had told the judge that the dark-sable collie, led by
this loutish countryman, was better fitted to clean up prizes at Madison Square Garden than
to appear in a society dog show in the North Jersey hinterland.

Leighton had viewed Chum, as a bored musician, listening to the piano-antics of defective children,
might have regarded the playing of a disguised Paderewski. Wherefore, he had waved the dog
to one side while he judged the lesser entrants, and then had given him the merited first-prize
ribbon.

Link, in a daze of bliss, stalked back to the bench; with Chum capering along at his side.
The queer sixth sense of a collie told Chum his god was deliriously happy, and that Chum himself
had somehow had a share in making him so. Hence the dog's former gloomy pacing changed to a
series of ecstatic little dance steps, and he kept thrusting his cold muzzle into the cup of
Ferris's palm.

Again Bench 65 was surrounded by an admiring clump of spectators. Chum and Link vied each other
in their icy aloofness toward these admirers. But with a difference.

Chum was unaffectedly bothered by so much unwelcome attention from strangers. Ferris, on the
other hand, reveled in the knowledge that his beloved pet was the center of more adulation
than was any other dog in all the section.

Class after class went to be judged. Link was sorry he had not spent more money and entered
Chum in every class. The initial victory had gone to his head. He had not known he could be
so serenely happy. After a while, he started up at the attendant's droning announcement of,

"Winners' Class, Male Scotch Collies! Numbers 62, 65, 68,70, 73!"

Again Link and Chum set out for the ring. Link's glee had merged into an all-consuming nervousness,
comparable only to a maiden hunter's "buck ague." Chum, once more sensing Ferris's state of
mind, lost his own glad buoyancy and paced solemnly alongside, peering worriedly up into Link's
face at every few steps.

All five entrants filed into the ring and began their parade. Leighton, in view of the importance
of this crowning event, did not single out any one dog, as before, to stand to one side; nor
did he gate any. He gave owners and spectators their full due, by a thorough inspection of
all five contestants. But as a result of his examination, he ended the suspense by handing
Link Ferris a purple rosette, whereon was blazoned in gilt the legend, "Winners." 

In the latter part of June General Brown returned to Buffalo, and on the morning of July 3d
Scott's brigade with the artillery of Major Jacobs Hindman, crossed the river and landed below
Fort Erie, while Ripley's brigade landed a short distance above.

 They asked him all sorts of questions as to his
dog. Link made monosyllabic and noncommittal replies to all of these--even when the great Col.
Cyrus Marden himself deigned to come over to the collie section and stare at Chum, accompanying
his scrutiny with a volley or patronizing inquiries.

From the bystanders Link learned something of real interest--namely, that one of the "specials"
was a big silver cup, to be awarded to "best collie of either sex"; and that after the females
should have been, judged, the winning female and Chum must appear in the ring together to compete
for this trophy.

Sure enough, in less than thirty minutes Chum was summoned to the ring. There, awaiting him,
was a dainty and temperamental merle, of the Tazewell strain. Exquisite and high-bred as was
this female competitor, Judge Leighton wasted little time on the examination before giving
Ferris a tricolored ribbon, whose possession entitled him to one of the shimmering silver mugs
in the near-by trophy case.

After receiving full assurance that the big cup should be his at the close of the show, Link
returned to Chum's bench in ecstasy and sat down beside his tired dog, with one arm thrown
lovingly round the collie's ruff. Chum nestled against his triumphant master, as Link fondled
his bunch of ribbons and went over, mentally, every move of his triumphal morning.

The milling and changing groups of spectators in front of Bench 65 did not dwindle. Indeed,
as the morning went on, they increased. People kept coming back to the bench and bringing others
with them. Some of these people whispered together. Some merely stared and went away. Some
asked Ferris carefully worded questions, to which the shyly happy mountaineer replied with
sheepish grunts.

The long period of judging came at last to an end. And the "Best Dog in Show" special was called.

Into the ring Ferris escorted Chum, amid a multitude of fellow winners, representing one male
or female of every breed exhibited. For it is observable that an opposition of passions commonly
causes a new emotion in the spirits, and produces more disorder, than the concurrence of any
two affections of equal force. This new emotion is easily converted into the predominant passion,
and encreases its violence, beyond the pitch it would have arrived at had it met with no opposition.
Hence we naturally desire what is forbid, and take a pleasure in
performing actions, merely because they are unlawful.

 Then Leighton crossed to Link,
for the fourth time that day, and gave him the gaudy rosette which proclaimed Chum "best dog
in the show." A roar of applause went up. Link felt dizzy--and numb. Then, with a gasp of rapture,
he stooped and gathered the bored Chum in his long arms, in a bearlike, ecstatic hug.

"We done it, Chummie!" he chortled. "WE DONE IT!"

Still in a daze, he followed the steward to the trophy case, where he received not only the
shining silver cup, but a "sovereign purse," wherein were ensconced ten ten-dollar gold pieces.

It was all a dream--a wonder dream from which presently he must awaken. Link was certain of
that. But while the golden dream lasted, he knew the nameless joys of paradise.

Chum close at his side, he made his way through the congratulating crowd toward the outer gate
of the country club grounds. He had almost reached the wicket when someone touched him, with
unnecessary firmness, on the shoulder.

Not relishing the familiarity, Link turned a scowling visage on the interrupter of his triumphal
homeward progress. At his elbow stood a stockily-built man, dressed with severe plainness.

"You're Lincoln Ferris?" queried the stranger, more as if stating aggressively a fact than
making an inquiry.

"Yep," said Link, cross at this annoying break-in upon his trance of happiness. "What d'j'
want?" he added.

"Please step back to the clubhouse a minute with me," returned the stranger, civilly enough,
but with the same bossy firmness in his tone that had jarred Ferris in his touch. "One or two
people want to speak to you. Bring along your dog."

Link glowered. He fancied he knew what was in store. Some of the ultra select had gathered
in the holy interior of the clubhouse and wanted a private view of Chum, unsullied by the noisy
presence of the crowd outside. They would talk patronizingly to Link, and perhaps even try
to coax him into selling Chum. The thought decided Ferris.

"I'm goin' home!" he said roughly.

"You're coming with me," contradicted the man in that same quiet voice, but slipping his muscular
arm into Link's.

With his other hand he shifted the lapel of his coat, displaying a police badge on its reverse.
Still avoiding any outward appearance of force, he turned about, with his arm locked in Ferris's
and started toward the clubhouse. 

"True, the administration has put itself on the side of order; the city is alarmed for its existence,
knowing full well that if it is given up to the military or the mob,
and the representatives of eighteen free States are, for a single
hour only, fugitives from the capital of the country, its re-occupation
will be upon terms less agreeable to the inhabitants of the District
and the neighboring States.

The possession of Washington does, in a considerable degree, control the future of this country.
 Deep in his furry throat a succession of legato growls were born.

The plain-clothes man knew much about dogs. He knew, for example, that when a dog holds his
head high and barks there is no special danger to be feared from him. But he also knew that
when a dog lowers his head and growls, showing his eyetooth, he means business.

And the man shrank from the menace. One hand crept back instinctively toward his hip pocket.

Link saw the purely involuntary gesture, and he shook in his boots. It was thus a Hampton constable
had once reached back when a stray cur snapped at him. And that constable had completed the
movement by drawing a pistol and shooting the cur. Perhaps this non-uniformed stranger meant
to do the same thing.

"Hold on!" begged Link, intervening between the man and the dog. "I'll go along with you peaceful.
Quit, Chum! It's all right!"

The dog still looked undecided. He did not like this new note in his god's voice. But he obeyed
the injunction, and fell into step at Link's side as usual. Ferris suffered himself to be piloted,
unresisting, through the tattered remnant of the crowd and up the clubhouse steps.

There his conductor led him through the sacred portals and down a wide hallway to the door
of a committee room. Throwing open the door, he ushered in his captive and the dog, entering
behind them and reclosing the heavy door.

In the room, round a table, sat several persons--all men except one. The exception was the
girl whose collie had had the bench next to Chum's. At the table head, looking very magisterial
indeed, sat Colonel Marden. Beside him lounged a larger and older man in a plaid sport suit.

Link's escort ranged his prisoners at the foot of the table; Chum standing tight against Ferris's
knee, as if to guard him from possible harm. Link stood glowering in sullen perplexity at the
Colonel. Marden cleared his voice pompously, then spoke.

"Ferris," he began with much impressiveness, "I am a magistrate of this county--as you perhaps
know. You may consider yourself before the Bar of Justice, and reply to my questions accordingly."

Awed by this thundered preamble, Ferris made shift to mutter:

"I ain't broke no laws. What d'j' want of me, anyhow?"

"First of all," proceeded Marden, "where did you get that dog?"

"Chum here?" said Ferris. "Why, I come acrost him, early last spring, on the patch of state
road, jes' outside of Hampton. He was a-layin' in a ditch, with his leg bust. Throwed off'n
a auto, I figgered it. I took him home an'--"

He paused, as the sport-suited man next to Marden nodded excitedly to the girl and then whispered
to the Colonel.

"You took him home?" pursued Marden. "Couldn't you see he was a valuable dog?"

"I c'd see he was a sufferin' an' dyin'  dawg," retorted Link. "I c'd see he was a goner, 'less
I took him home an' 'tended him. If you're aimin' at findin' out why I went on keepin' him
after that, I done so because no one claimed him. I put up notices 'bout him. I put one up
at the post-office here, too. I--"

"He did!" interrupted the girl. The question he maintained was one which lawyers alone were competent
to understand, and he also maintained that the majority of the House
ought to accept their views.

"The question" said he "is sui generis."

I was opposed to the bill. At that time Richard Fletcher, then recently a member of Congress,
had been engaged in a controversy with the Boston Atlas, a leading
organ of the Whig Party.

A question of veracity was raised and to the disadvantage of Fletcher.
 Like you
c'n see in my entry blank, what's layin' on the table in front of you. I adv'tised Chum as
a bird dawg because I s'posed he WAS a bird dawg. I ain't a sharp on dawgs. He's the fust one
ever I had. If he ain't a bird dawg, 'tain't my fault. He looks more like one than like 'tother
breeds I'd seen. So I called him one."

"There is no need to raise your voice at me!" rebuked the colonel. "I am disposed to accept
your explanation. But if you read the local papers you must have seen--"

"I did read 'em," said Ferris. "I read 'em steady for a month or more, to see was there was
adv'tisement fer a lost dawg. Nary an adv'tisement did I see excep' one fer a 'sable' collie.
'Sable' means 'black.' I know, because our dominie told me so. I asked him, when I see that
piece in the paper. Chum ain't black, nor nowheres near black. So I knowed it couldn't be him.
What d'j' want of me, anyhow?" he demanded once more.

"Again, I am disposed to credit your explanation," boomed the colonel, frowning down a ripple
of giggles that had its rise in Miss Gault. "And I am disposed to acquit you of consciously
dishonest intent. I am glad to do so. Here is the situation: Early last spring, Mr. Gault,"
indicating the sport-suit wearer at his left, "bought from the famous Glenmuir Collie Kennels,
on the Hudson, an unusually fine young collie--a dog for which connoisseurs predicted a great
future in the show ring. He purchased it as a gift for his daughter, Miss Marion Gault."

He inclined his head slightly toward the girl; then proceeded:

