His companion savage was a young blood, and still affected by the vanities of life. His hair
he wore in short tight curls, resembling the rope hair of a French poodle, liberally anointed
with castor-oil and coloured with red-paint clay. His body, too, was turned to bronze by the
same method, so that he looked like a beautiful smooth metal statue come to life. To set this
quality off he wore glittering collars, bracelets, and ear ornaments of polished copper and
brass. When he joined us his sole costume was a negligent two-foot strip of cotton cloth. After
he had received his official jersey, he carefully tied the cloth over his wonderful head; nor
as far as we knew did he again remove it until the end of the expedition. All his movements
were inexpressibly graceful. They reminded one somehow of Flaxman's drawings of the Greek gods.
His face, too, was good-natured and likeable. A certain half feminine, wild grace, combined
with the queer effect of his headgear, caused us to name him Daphne. At home he was called
Kingangui. At first he carried his burden after the fashion of savages--on the back; and kept
to the rear of the procession; and at evening consorted only with old Lightfoot. As soon as
opportunity offered, he built himself a marvellous iridescent ball of marabout feathers. Each
of these he split along the quill, so that they curled and writhed in the wind. This picturesque
charm he suspended from a short pole in front of his tent. Also, he belonged to the Kikuyu
tribe; he ate no game meat, but confined his diet to cornmeal porridge. We were much interested
in watching Daphne's gradual conversion from savage ways to those of the regular porter. Within
two weeks he was carrying his load on his head or shoulder, and trying to keep up near the
head of the safari. The charm of feathers disappeared shortly after, I am sorry to say. He
took his share of the meat. Within two months Daphne was imitating as closely as possible the
manners and customs of his safari mates. But he never really succeeded in looking anything
but the wild and graceful savage he was.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] After the fashion of the Canadian tump line.

[17] Pronounce all the syllables.

[18] An entirely different stream from that flowing north of Mt. Kenia.

[19] Pronounce every syllable.

[20] His official name was Lightfoot, Queen of the Fairies, because of his ballet-like costume.

XXXIV.

TO THE KEDONG.

For four hours we descended the valley through high thorn scrub or the occasional grassy openings.
We were now in the floor of the Rift Valley, and both along the escarpments and in the floor
of the great blue valley itself mountains were all about us. Most of the large ones were evidently
craters; and everywhere were smaller kopjes or buttes, that in their day had also served as
blow holes for subterranean fires.

At the end of this time we arrived at the place where we were supposed to find the wagon. No
wagon was there.

The spot was in the middle of a level plain on which grew very scattered bushes, a great deal
like the sparser mesquite growths of Arizona. Towards the Likipia Escarpment, and about half-way
to its base, a line of trees marked the course of the Kedong River. Beyond that, fairly against
the mountain, we made out a settler's house.

Leaving Billy and the safari, C. and I set out for this house. The distance was long, and we
had not made half of it before thunder clouds began to gather. They came up thick and black
behind the escarpment, and rapidly spread over the entire heavens. We found the wagon shortly,
still mending its dusselboom, or whatever the thing was. Leaving instructions for it to proceed
to a certain point on the Kedong River, we started back for our safari.

It rained. In ten minutes the dusty plains, as far as the eye could reach, were covered with
water two or three inches deep, from which the sparse bunches of grasses grew like reeds in
a great marshy lake. We splashed along with the water over our ankles. The channels made by
the game trails offered natural conduits, and wherever there was the least grade they had become
rushing brooks. We found the safari very bedraggled. Billy had made a mound of valuables, atop
which she perched, her waterproof cape spread as wide as possible, a good deal like a brooding
hen. We set out for the meeting-point on the Kedong. In half an hour we had there found a bit
of higher ground and had made camp.

As suddenly as they had gathered the storm clouds broke away. The expiring sun sent across
the valley a flood of golden light, that gilded the rugged old mountain of Suswa over the way.

"Directly on the other side of Suswa," C. told me, "there is a 'pan' of hard clay. This rain
will fill it, and we shall find water there. We can take a night's rest, and set off comfortably
in the morning."

So the rain that had soaked us so thoroughly was a blessing after all. While we were cooking
supper the wagon passed us, its wheels and frame creaking, its great whip cracking like a rifle,
its men shrieking at the imperturbable team of eighteen oxen. It would travel until the oxen
wanted to graze, or sleep, or scratch an ear, or meditate on why is a Kikuyu. Thereupon they
would be outspanned and allowed to do it, whatever it was, until they were ready to go on again.
Then they would go on. These sequences might take place at any time of the day or night, and
for greater or lesser intervals of time. That was distinctly up to the oxen; the human beings
had mighty little to say in the matter. But transport riding, from the point of view of the
rank outsider, really deserves a chapter of its own.

XXXV.

THE TRANSPORT RIDER.

The wagon is one evolved in South Africa--a long, heavily-constructed affair, with ingenious
braces and timbers so arranged as to furnish the maximum clearance with the greatest facility
for substitution in case the necessity for repairs might arise. The whole vehicle can be dismounted
and reassembled in a few hours; so that unfordable streams or impossible bits of country can
be crossed piecemeal. Its enormous wheels are set wide apart. The brake is worked by a crank
at the rear, like a reversal of the starting mechanism of a motor car. Bolted to the frame
on either side between the front and rear wheels are capacious cupboards, and two stout water
kegs swing to and fro when the craft is under way. The net carrying capacity of such a wagon
is from three to four thousand pounds.

This formidable vehicle, in our own case, was drawn by a team of eighteen oxen. The biggest
brutes, the wheelers, were attached to a tongue, all the others pulled on a long chain. The
only harness was the pronged yoke that fitted just forward of the hump. Over rough country
the wheelers were banged and jerked about savagely by the tongue; they did not seem to mind
it but exhibited a certain amount of intelligence in manipulation.

To drive these oxen we had one white man named Brown, and two small Kikuyu savages. One of
these worked the brake crank in the rear while the other preceded the lead cattle. Brown exercised
general supervision, a long-lashed whip and Boer-Dutch expletives and admonitions.

In transport riding, as this game is called, there is required a great amount of especial skill
though not necessarily a high degree of intelligence. Along the flats all goes well enough,
but once in the unbelievable rough country of a hill trek the situation alters. A man must
know cattle and their symptoms. It is no light feat to wake up eighteen sluggish bovine minds
to the necessity for effort, and then to throw so much dynamic energy into the situation that
the whole eighteen will begin to pull at once. That is the secret, unanimity; an ox is the
most easily discouraged working animal on earth. If the first three couples begin to haul before
the others have aroused to their effort, they will not succeed in budging the wagon an inch,
but after a moment's struggle will give up completely. By that time the leaders respond to
the command and throw themselves forward in the yoke. In vain. They cannot pull the wagon and
their wheel comrades too. Therefore they give up. By this time, perhaps, the lash has aroused
the first lot to another effort. And so they go, pulling and hauling against each other, getting
nowhere, until the end is an exhausted team, a driver half insane, and a great necessity for
unloading.

A good driver, on the other hand, shrieks a few premonitory Dutch words--and then! I suppose
inside those bovine heads the effect is somewhat that of a violent electric explosion. At any
rate it hits them all at once, and all together, in response, they surge against their yokes.
The heavily laden wagon creaks, groans, moves forward. The hurricane of Dutch and the volleys
of whip crackings rise to a crescendo. We are off!

To perform just this little simple trick of getting the thing started requires not only a peculiar
skill or gift, but also lungs of brass and a throat of iron. A transport rider without a voice
is as a tenor in the same fix. He may--and does--get so hoarse that it is a pain to hear him;
but as long as he can croak in good volume he is all right. Mere shouting will not do. He must
shriek, until to the sympathetic bystander it seems that his throat must split wide open. Furthermore,
he must shriek the proper things. It all sounds alike to every one but transport riders and
oxen; but as a matter of fact it is Boer-Dutch, nicely assorted to suit different occasions.
It is incredible that oxen should distinguish; but, then, it is also incredible that trout
should distinguish the nice differences in artificial flies.

After the start has been made successfully, the craft must be kept under way. To an unbiassed
bystander the whole affair looks insane. The wagon creaks and sways and groans and cries aloud
as it bumps over great boulders in the way; the leading Kikuyu dances nimbly and shrills remarks
at the nearest cattle; the tail Kikuyu winds energetically back and forth on his little handle,
and tries to keep his feet. And Brown! he is magnificent! His long lash sends out a volley
of rifle reports, down, up, ahead, back; his cracked voice roars out an unending stream of
apparent gibberish. Back and forth along the line of the team he skips nimbly, the sweat streaming
from his face. And the oxen plod along, unhasting, unexcited, their eyes dreamy, chewing the
cud of yesterday's philosophic reflections. The situation conveys the general impression of
a peevish little stream breaking against great calm cliffs. All this frantic excitement and
expenditure of energy is so apparently purposeless and futile, the calm cattle seem so aloof
and superior to it all, so absolutely unaffected by it. They are going slowly, to be sure;
their gait may be maddeningly deliberate, but evidently they do not intend to be hurried. Why
not let them take their own speed?

But all this hullabaloo means something after all. It does its business, and the top of the
boulder-strewn hill is gained. Without it the whole concern would have stopped, and then the
wagon would have to be unloaded before a fresh start could have been made. Results with cattle
are not shown by facial expression nor by increased speed, but simply by continuance. They
will plod up steep hills or along the level at the same placid gait. Only in the former case
they require especial treatment.

In case the wagon gets stuck on a hill, as will occasionally happen, so that all the oxen are
discouraged at once, we would see one of the Kikuyus leading the team back and forth, back
and forth, on the side hill just ahead of the wagon. This is to confuse their minds, cause
them to forget their failure, and thus to make another attempt.

At one stretch we had three days of real mountains. N'gombe[21] Brown shrieked like a steam
calliope all the way through. He lasted the distance, but had little camp-fire conversation
even with his beloved Kikuyus.

When the team is outspanned, which in the waterless country of forced marches is likely to
be almost any time of the day or night, N'gombe Brown sought a little rest. For this purpose
he had a sort of bunk that let down underneath the wagon. If it were daytime, the cattle were
allowed to graze under supervision of one of the Kikuyus. If it was night time they were tethered
to the long chain, where they lay in a somnolent double row. A lantern at the head of the file
and one at the wagon's tail were supposed to discourage lions. In a bad lion country fires
were added to these defences.

N'gombe Brown thus worked hard through varied and long hours in strict intimacy with stupid
and exasperating beasts. After working hours he liked to wander out to watch those same beasts
grazing! His mind was as full of cattle as that! Although we offered him reading matter, he
never seemed to care for it, nor for long-continued conversation with white people not of his
trade. In fact the only gleam of interest I could get out of him was by commenting on the qualities
or peculiarities of the oxen. He had a small mouth-organ on which he occasionally performed,
and would hold forth for hours with his childlike Kikuyus. In the intelligence to follow ordinary
directions he was an infant. We had to iterate and reiterate in words of one syllable our directions
as to routes and meeting-points, and then he was quite as apt to go wrong as right. Yet, I
must repeat, he knew thoroughly all the ins and outs of a very difficult trade, and understood,
as well, how to keep his cattle always fit and in good condition. In fact he was a little hipped
on what the "dear n'gombes" should or should not be called upon to do.

One incident will illustrate all this better than I could explain it. When we reached the Narossara
River we left the wagon and pushed on afoot. We were to be gone an indefinite time, and we
left N'gombe Brown and his outfit very well fixed. Along the Narossara ran a pleasant shady
strip of high jungle; the country about was clear and open; but most important of all, a white
man of education and personal charm occupied a trading boma, or enclosure, near at hand. An
accident changed our plans and brought us back unexpectedly at the end of a few weeks. We found
that N'gombe Brown had trekked back a long day's journey, and was encamped alone at the end
of a spur of mountains. We sent native runners after him. He explained his change of base by
saying that the cattle feed was a little better at his new camp! Mind you this: at the Narossara
the feed was quite good enough, the oxen were doing no work, there was companionship, books,
papers, and even a phonograph to while away the long weeks until our return. N'gombe Brown
quite cheerfully deserted all this to live in solitude where he imagined the feed to be microscopically
better!

FOOTNOTES:

[21] N'gombe = oxen.

XXXVI.

ACROSS THE THIRST.

We were off, a bright, clear day after the rains. Suswa hung grayish pink against the bluest
of skies. Our way slanted across the Rift Valley to her base, turned the corner, and continued
on the other side of the great peak until we had reached the rainwater "pan" on her farther
side. It was a long march.

The plains were very wide and roomy. Here and there on them rose many small cones and craters,
lava flows and other varied evidences of recent volcanic activity. Geologically recent, I mean.
The grasses of the flowing plains were very brown, and the molehill craters very dark; the
larger craters blasted and austere; the higher escarpment in the background blue with a solemn
distance. The sizes of things were not originally fitted out for little tiny people like human
beings. We walked hours to reach landmarks apparently only a few miles away.

In this manner we crept along industriously until noon, by which time we had nearly reached
the shoulder of Suswa, around which we had to double. The sun was strong, and the men not yet
hardened to the work. We had many stragglers. After lunch Memba Sasa and I strolled along on
a route flanking that of the safari, looking for the first of our meat supply. Within a short
time I had killed a Thompson's gazelle. Some solemn giraffes looked on at the performance,
and then moved off like mechanical toys.

The day lengthened. We were in the midst of wonderful scenery. Our objection grew to be that
it took so long to put any of it behind us. Insensibly, however, we made progress. Suddenly,
as it seemed, we found ourselves looking at the other side of Suswa, and various brand-new
little craters had moved up to take the places of our old friends. At last, about half-past
four, we topped the swell of one of the numerous and interminable land billows that undulate
across all plains countries here, and saw a few miles away the wagon outspanned. We reached
it about sunset, to be greeted by the welcome news that there was indeed water in the pan.

We unsaddled just before dark, and I immediately started towards the game herds, many of which
were grazing a half-mile away. The gazelle would supply our own larder, but meat for hard-worked
man was very desirable. I shot a hartebeeste, made the prearranged signal for men to carry
meat, and returned to camp.

Even yet the men were not all in. We took lanterns and returned along the road, for the long
marches under a desert sun are no joke. At last we had accounted for all but two. These we
had to abandon. Next day we found their loads, but never laid eyes on them again. Thus early
our twenty-nine became twenty-seven.

About nine o'clock, just as we were turning, a number of lions began to roar. Usually a lion
roars once or twice by way of satisfaction after leaving a kill. These, however, were engaged
in driving game, and hence trying to make as much noise as possible. We distinguished plainly
seven individuals, perhaps more. The air trembled with the sound as to the deepest tones of
a big organ, only the organ is near and enclosed, while these vibrations were in the open air
and remote. For a few moments the great salvos would boom across the veld, roll after roll
of thunder; then would ensue a momentary dead silence; then a single voice would open, to be
joined immediately by the others.

We awoke next day to an unexpected cold drizzle. This was a bit uncomfortable, from one point
of view, and most unusual, but it robbed the thirst of its terrors. We were enabled to proceed
leisurely, and to get a good sleep near water every night. The wagon had, as usual, pulled
out some time during the night.

Our way led over a succession of low rolling ridges each higher than its predecessor. Game
herds fed in the shallow valleys between. At about ten o'clock we came to the foot of the Mau
Escarpment, and also to the unexpected sight of the wagon outspanned. N'gombe Brown explained
to us that the oxen had refused to proceed farther in face of a number of lions that came around
to sniff at them. Then the rain had come on, and he had been unwilling to attempt the Mau while
the footing was slippery. This sounded reasonable; in fact, it was still reasonable. It was pathetic
that so capable a cast--Miss LILY LONG in particular--should have such second-rate stuff to say
and sing. Seldom could one detect any attempt to evade the obvious. Of topical allusions, apart
from timeworn themes of coupons and profiteers, there was scarce a sign, and such burlesque
as there was had no sort of subtlety in it. Take, for example, the opportunity lost in the
imitation of a bedroom scene from modern drama. It announced itself as something "West-Endy,"
yet it was like nothing (I imagine) even in the remote Orient. And constantly the poor play
of esprit had to be carried off by the distracting thud of some falling body or covered by
the deadening clash of the eternal cymbals.

It is significant, in this connection, that there never seems to be any male character in these
pantomimes that is not committed to buffoonery. Apparently no reliance is placed on the unassisted
humour of the dialogue. A funny remark must be clinched with a somersault, a repartee be driven
home by a resounding smack on the face. You might have thought that on such an occasion there would
be room for the figure of some gallant soldier of the masculine sex. Yet there wasn't a vestige
of khaki in the whole show, and the only patriotic song assigned to a man's voice had to be delivered
by the comic villain.

However, the actors were too good to be defeated by the authors; and
the two couples--the Babes (Mr. STANLEY LUPINO as Horace and Mr. WILL
EVANS as Flossie) and the Robbers (Messrs. EGBERT)--went far by their
personal drollery and unflagging spirits to make up for any defect
in the words.

Each member of the two pairs played very loyally into the other's hands. Mr. ALBERT EGBERT
indeed played into his brother's feet with equal devotion; and the good humour with which he accepted
the fiercest blows on face and person seemed to indicate an exceptionally close fraternal understanding.

Mr.
HARRY CLAFF as the Wicked Uncle (with a note or two in the operatic manner) belied his villainous
nature by an unusually amiable temperament; and Miss FLORENCE SMITHSON,
with her dainty air, furnished interludes of conventional song, during
which we gave our ribs a rest.

The dancing, as usual, was rather perfunctory, if one excepts a pas
de deux which gave promise of a parody of the Russians and turned
out to be just a series of contortionist feats, brilliant but unlovely.

 It sloped away gently until it was lost in
mists. Later, when these cleared, we saw distant blue mountains across a tremendous shallow
basin. We were nearly on a level with the summit of Suswa itself, nor did we again drop much
below that altitude. After five or six miles we overtook the wagon outspanned. The projected
all-night journey had again been frustrated by the lions. These beasts had proved so bold and
menacing that finally the team had been forced to stop in sheer self-defence. However, the
day was cool and overcast, so nothing was lost.

After topping the Mau we saw a few gazelle, zebra, and hartebeeste, but soon plunged into a
bush country quite destitute of game. We were paralleling the highest ridge of the escarpment,
and so alternated between the crossing of cañons and the travelling along broad ridges between
them. In lack of other amusement for a long time I rode with the wagon. The country was very
rough and rocky. Everybody was excited to the point of frenzy, except the wagon. It had a certain
Dutch stolidity in its manner of calmly and bumpily surmounting such portions of the landscape
as happened in its way.

After a very long, tiresome march we camped above a little stream. Barring our lucky rain this
would have been the first water since leaving the Kedong River. Here were hundreds of big blue
pigeons swooping in to their evening drink.

For two days more we repeated this sort of travel, but always with good camps at fair-sized
streams. Gradually we slanted away from the main ridge, though we still continued cross-cutting
the swells and ravines thrown off its flanks. Only the ravines hour by hour became shallower,
and the swells lower and broader. On their tops the scrub sometimes gave way to openings of
short grass. On these fed a few gazelle of both sorts, and an occasional zebra or so. We saw
also four topi, a beast about the size of our wapiti, built on the general specifications of
a hartebeeste, but with the most beautiful iridescent plum-coloured coat. This quartette was
very wild. I made three separate stalks on them, but the best I could do was 360 paces, at
which range I missed.

Finally we surmounted the last low swell to look down a wide and sloping plain to the depression
in which flowed the principal river of these parts, the Southern Guaso Nyero. Beyond it stretched
the immense oceanlike plains of the Loieta, from which here and there rose isolated hills,
very distant, like lonesome ships at sea. A little to the left, also very distant, we could
make out an unbroken blue range of mountains. These were our ultimate destination.

XXXVII.

THE SOUTHERN GUASO NYERO.

The Southern Guaso Nyero, unlike its northern namesake, is a sluggish, muddy stream, rather
small, flowing between abrupt clay banks. Farther down it drops into great cañons and eroded
abysses, and acquires a certain grandeur. But here, at the ford of Agate's Drift, it is decidedly
unimpressive. Scant greenery ornaments its banks. In fact, at most places they run hard and
baked to a sheer drop-off of ten or fifteen feet. Scattered mimosa trees and aloes mark its
course. The earth for a mile or so is trampled by thousands of Masai cattle that at certain
seasons pass through the funnel of this, the only ford for miles. Apparently insignificant,
it is given to sudden, tremendous rises. These originate in the rainfalls of the upper Mau
Escarpment, many miles away. It behooves the safari to cross promptly if it can, and to camp
always on the farther bank.

This we did, pitching our tents in a little opening, between clumps of pretty flowering aloes
and the mimosas. Here, as everywhere in this country, until we had passed the barrier of the
Narossara mountains, the common horseflies were a plague. They follow the Masai cattle. I can
give you no better idea of their numbers than to tell you two isolated facts: I killed twenty-one
at one blow; and in the morning, before sunrise, the apex of our tent held a solid black mass
of the creatures running the length of the ridge pole, and from half an inch to two inches
deep! Every pack was black with them on the march, and the wagon carried its millions. When
the shadow of a branch would cross that slowly lumbering vehicle, the swarm would rise and
bumble around distractedly for a moment before settling down again. They fairly made a nimbus
of darkness.

After we had made camp we saw a number of Masai warriors hovering about the opposite bank,
but they did not venture across. Some of their women did, however, and came cheerily into camp.
These most interesting people are worth more than a casual word, so I shall reserve my observations
on them until a later chapter. One of our porters, a big Baganda named Sabakaki, was suffering
severely from pains in the chest that subsequently developed into pleurisy. From the Masai
women we tried to buy some of the milk they carried in gourds; at first they seemed not averse,
but as soon as they realized the milk was not for our own consumption, they turned their backs
on poor Sabakaki and refused to have anything more to do with us.

These Masai are very difficult to trade with. Their only willing barter is done in sheep. These
they seem to consider legitimate objects of commerce. A short distance from our camp stood
three whitewashed round houses with thatched, conical roofs, the property of a trader named
Agate. He was away at the time of our visit.

