Another rock on which modern steersmen of a more skilful hand than these are yet liable to
run through too much confidence is the love of their own conjectures as to the actual date
or the secret history of a particular play or passage.  To err on this side requires more thought,
more learning, and more ingenuity than we need think to find in a whole tribe of finger-counters
and figure-casters; but the outcome of these good gifts, if strained or perverted to capricious
use, may prove no less barren of profit than the labours of a pedant on the letter of the text.
It is a tempting exercise of intelligence for a dexterous and keen-witted scholar to apply
his solid learning and his vivid fancy to the detection or the interpretation of some new or
obscure point in a great man's life or work; but none the less is it a perilous pastime to
give the reins to a learned fancy, and let loose conjecture on the trail of any dubious crotchet
or the scent of any supposed allusion that may spring up in the way of its confident and eager
quest.  To start a new solution of some crucial problem, to track some new undercurrent of
concealed significance in a passage hitherto neglected or misconstrued, is to a critic of this
higher class a delight as keen as that of scientific discovery to students of another sort:
the pity is that he can bring no such certain or immediate test to verify the value of his
discovery as lies ready to the hand of the man of science.  Whether he have lit upon a windfall
or a mare's nest can be decided by no direct proof, but only by time and the general acceptance
of competent judges; and this cannot often be reasonably expected for theories which can appeal
for support or confirmation to no positive evidence, but at best to a cloudy and shifting probability.
What personal or political allusions may lurk under the text of Shakespeare we can never know,
and should consequently forbear to hang upon a hypothesis of this floating and nebulous kind
any serious opinion which might gravely affect our estimate of his work or his position in
regard to other men, with whom some public or private interest may possibly have brought him
into contact or collision.

* * * * *

The aim of the present study is simply to set down what the writer believes to be certain demonstrable
truths as to the progress and development of style, the outer and the inner changes of manner
as of matter, of method as of design, which may be discerned in the work of Shakespeare.  The
principle here adopted and the views here put forward have not been suddenly discovered or
lightly taken up out of any desire to make a show of theoretical ingenuity.  For years past
I have held and maintained, in private discussion with friends and fellow-students, the opinions
which I now submit to more public judgment.  How far they may coincide with those advanced
by others I cannot say, and have not been careful to inquire.  The mere fact of coincidence
or of dissent on such a question is of less importance than the principle accepted by either
student as the groundwork of his theory, the mainstay of his opinion.  It is no part of my
project or my hope to establish the actual date of any among the various plays, or to determine
point by point the lineal order of their succession.  I have examined no table or catalogue
of recent or of earlier date, from the time of Malone onwards, with a view to confute by my
reasoning the conclusions of another, or by the assistance of his theories to corroborate my
own.  It is impossible to fix or decide by inner or outer evidence the precise order of production,
much less of composition, which critics of the present or the past may have set their wits
to verify in vain; but it is quite possible to show that the work of Shakespeare is naturally
divisible into classes which may serve us to distinguish and determine as by landmarks the
several stages or periods of his mind and art.

Of these the three chief periods or stages are so unmistakably indicated by the mere text itself,
and so easily recognisable by the veriest tiro in the school of Shakespeare, that even were
I as certain of being the first to point them out as I am conscious of having long since discovered
and verified them without assistance or suggestion from any but Shakespeare himself, I should
be disposed to claim but little credit for a discovery which must in all likelihood have been
forestalled by the common insight of some hundred or more students in time past.  The difficulty
begins with the really debatable question of subdivisions. There are certain plays which may
be said to hang on the borderland between one period and the next, with one foot lingering
and one advanced; and these must be classed according to the dominant note of their style,
the greater or lesser proportion of qualities proper to the earlier or the later stage of thought
and writing.  At one time I was inclined to think the whole catalogue more accurately divisible
into four classes; but the line of demarcation between the third and fourth would have been
so much fainter than those which mark off the first period from the second, and the second
from the third, that it seemed on the whole a more correct and adequate arrangement to assume
that the last period might be subdivided if necessary into a first and second stage.  This
somewhat precise and pedantic scheme of study I have adopted from no love of rigid or formal
system, but simply to make the method of my critical process as clear as the design.  That
design is to examine by internal evidence alone the growth and the expression of spirit and
of speech, the ebb and flow of thought and style, discernible in the successive periods of
Shakespeare's work; to study the phases of mind, the changes of tone, the passage or progress
from an old manner to a new, the reversion or relapse from a later to an earlier habit, which
may assuredly be traced in the modulations of his varying verse, but can only be traced by
ear and not by finger.  I have busied myself with no baseless speculations as to the possible
or probable date of the first appearance of this play or of that on the stage; and it is not
unlikely that the order of succession here adopted or suggested may not always coincide with
the chronological order of production; nor will the principle or theory by which I have undertaken
to class the successive plays of each period be affected or impaired though it should chance
that a play ranked by me as belonging to a later stage of work should actually have been produced
earlier than others which in my lists are assigned to a subsequent date.  It is not, so to
speak, the literal but the spiritual order which I have studied to observe and to indicate:
the periods which I seek to define belong not to chronology but to art.  No student need be
reminded how common a thing it is to recognise in the later work of a great artist some partial
reappearance of his early tone or manner, some passing return to his early lines of work and
to habits of style since modified or abandoned. Such work, in part at least, may properly be
said to belong rather to the earlier stage whose manner it resumes than to the later stage
at which it was actually produced, and in which it stands out as a marked exception among the
works of the same period.  A famous and a most singularly beautiful example of this reflorescence
as in a Saint Martin's summer of undecaying genius is the exquisite and crowning love-scene
in the opera or "ballet-tragedy" of Psyche, written in his sixty-fifth year by the august Roman
hand of Pierre Corneille; a lyric symphony of spirit and of song fulfilled with all the colour
and all the music that autumn could steal from spring if October had leave to go a Maying in
some Olympian masquerade of melody and sunlight.  And it is not easier, easy as it is, to discern
and to define the three main stages of Shakespeare's work and progress, than to classify under
their several heads the representative plays belonging to each period by the law of their nature,
if not by the accident of their date.  There are certain dominant qualities which do on the
whole distinguish not only the later from the earlier plays, but the second period from the
first, the third period from the second; and it is with these qualities alone that the higher
criticism, be it aesthetic or scientific, has properly anything to do.

A new method of solution has been applied to various difficulties which have been discovered
or invented in the text by the care or the perversity of recent commentators, whose principle
of explanation is easier to abuse than to use with any likelihood of profit.  It is at least
simple enough for the simplest of critics to apply or misapply: whenever they see or suspect
an inequality or an incongruity which may be wholly imperceptible to eyes uninured to the use
of their spectacles, they assume at once the presence of another workman, the intrusion of
a stranger's hand.  This supposition of a double authorship is naturally as impossible to refute
as to establish by other than internal evidence and appeal to the private judgment or perception
of the reader.  But it is no better than the last resource of an empiric, the last refuge of
a sciolist; a refuge which the soundest of scholars will be slowest to seek, a resource which
the most competent of critics will be least ready to adopt.  Once admitted as a principle of
general application, there are no lengths to which it may not carry, there are none to which
it has not carried, the audacious fatuity and the arrogant incompetence of tamperers with the
authentic text.  Recent editors who have taken on themselves the high office of guiding English
youth in its first study of Shakespeare have proposed to excise or to obelise whole passages
which the delight and wonder of youth and age alike, of the rawest as of the ripest among students,
have agreed to consecrate as examples of his genius at its highest.  In the last trumpet-notes
of Macbeth's defiance and despair, in the last rallying cry of the hero reawakened in the tyrant
at his utmost hour of need, there have been men and scholars, Englishmen and editors, who have
detected the alien voice of a pretender, the false ring of a foreign blast that was not blown
by Shakespeare; words that for centuries past have touched with fire the hearts of thousands
in each age since they were first inspired--words with the whole sound in them of battle or
a breaking sea, with the whole soul of pity and terror mingled and melted into each other in
the fierce last speech of a spirit grown "aweary of the sun," have been calmly transferred
from the account of Shakespeare to the score of Middleton.  And this, forsooth, the student
of the future is to accept on the authority of men who bring to the support of their decision
the unanswerable plea of years spent in the collation and examination of texts never hitherto
explored and compared with such energy of learned labour.  If this be the issue of learning
and of industry, the most indolent and ignorant of readers who retains his natural capacity
to be moved and mastered by the natural delight of contact with heavenly things is better off
by far than the most studious and strenuous of all scholiasts who ever claimed acquiescence
or challenged dissent on the strength of his lifelong labours and hard-earned knowledge of
the letter of the text. The former is decidedly the best. After being gathered, it is spread on
mats in the sun, when it loses its red colour, and becomes black and shrivelled as we see it.
White pepper is of two sorts, common and genuine. The former is made by blanching the grains
of the common black pepper, by steeping them for a while in water, and then gently rubbing them,
so as to remove the dark outer coat. It is milder than the other, and much prized by the Chinese,
but very little is imported into England. Genuine white pepper is merely the blighted or imperfect
grains picked from among the heaps of black pepper. It is, of course, very inferior.
From the Singapore Chronicle we learn, that the average annual quantity
of pepper obtained from different countries is 46,066,666 lbs, avoirdupois.
  It was bad enough while
theorists of this breed confined themselves to the suggestion of a possible partnership with
Fletcher, a possible interpolation by Jonson; but in the descent from these to the alleged
adulteration of the text by Middleton and Rowley we have surely sounded the very lowest depth
of folly attainable by the utmost alacrity in sinking which may yet be possible to the bastard
brood of Scriblerus.  For my part, I shall not be surprised though the next discoverer should
assure us that half at least of Hamlet is evidently due to the collaboration of Heywood, while
the greater part of Othello is as clearly assignable to the hand of Shirley.

Akin to this form of folly, but less pernicious though not more profitable, is the fancy of
inventing some share for Shakespeare in the composition of plays which the veriest insanity
of conjecture or caprice could not venture to lay wholly to his charge.  This fancy, comparatively
harmless as it is, requires no ground of proof to go upon, no prop of likelihood to support
it; without so much help as may be borrowed from the faintest and most fitful of traditions,
it spins its own evidence spider-like out of its own inner conscience or conceit, and proffers
it with confident complacency for men's acceptance.  Here again I cannot but see a mere waste
of fruitless learning and bootless ingenuity.  That Shakespeare began by retouching and recasting
the work of elder and lesser men we all know; that he may afterwards have set his hand to the
task of adding or altering a line or a passage here and there in some few of the plays brought
out under his direction as manager or proprietor of a theatre is of course possible, but can
neither be affirmed nor denied with any profit in default of the least fragment of historic
or traditional evidence.  Any attempt to verify the imaginary touch of his hand in plays of
whose history we know no more than that they were acted on the boards of his theatre can be
but a diversion for the restless leisure of ingenious and ambitious scholars; it will give
no clue by which the student who simply seeks to know what can be known with certainty of the
poet and his work may hope to be guided towards any safe issue or trustworthy result.  Less
pardonable and more presumptuous than this is the pretension of minor critics to dissect an
authentic play of Shakespeare scene by scene, and assign different parts of the same poem to
different dates by the same pedagogic rules of numeration and mensuration which they would
apply to the general question of the order and succession of his collective works.  This vivisection
of a single poem is not defensible as a freak of scholarship, an excursion beyond the bounds
of bare proof, from which the wanderer may chance to bring back, if not such treasure as he
went out to seek, yet some stray godsend or rare literary windfall which may serve to excuse
his indulgence in the seemingly profitless pastime of a truant disposition.  It is a pure impertinence
to affirm with oracular assurance what might perhaps be admissible as a suggestion offered
with the due diffidence of modest and genuine scholarship; to assert on the strength of a private
pedant's personal intuition that such must be the history or such the composition of a great
work whose history he alone could tell, whose composition he alone could explain, who gave
it to us as his genius had given it to him.

From these several rocks and quicksands I trust at least to keep my humbler course at a safe
distance, and steer clear of all sandy shallows of theory or sunken shoals of hypothesis on
which no pilot can be certain of safe anchorage; avoiding all assumption, though never so plausible,
for which no ground but that of fancy can be shown, all suggestion though never so ingenious
for which no proof but that of conjecture can be advanced.  For instance, I shall neither assume
nor accept the theory of a double authorship or of a double date by which the supposed inequalities
may be accounted for, the supposed difficulties may be swept away, which for certain readers
disturb the study of certain plays of Shakespeare.  Only where universal tradition and the
general concurrence of all reasonable critics past and present combine to indicate an unmistakable
difference of touch or an unmistakable diversity of date between this and that portion of the
same play, or where the internal evidence of interpolation perceptible to the most careless
and undeniable by the most perverse of readers is supported by the public judgment of men qualified
to express and competent to defend an opinion, have I thought it allowable to adopt this facile
method of explanation.  No scholar, for example, believes in the single authorship of Pericles
or Andronicus; none, I suppose, would now question the part taken by some hireling or journeyman
in the arrangement or completion for the stage of Timon of Athens; and few probably would refuse
to admit a doubt of the total authenticity or uniform workmanship of the Taming of the Shrew.
As few, I hope, are prepared to follow the fantastic and confident suggestions of every unquiet
and arrogant innovator who may seek to append his name to the long scroll of Shakespearean
parasites by the display of a brand-new hypothesis as to the uncertain date or authorship of
some passage or some play which has never before been subjected to the scientific scrutiny
of such a pertinacious analyst.  The more modest design of the present study has in part been
already indicated, and will explain as it proceeds if there be anything in it worth explanation.
It is no part of my ambition to loose the Gordian knots which others who found them indissoluble
have sought in vain to cut in sunder with blunter swords than the Macedonian; but after so
many adventures and attempts there may perhaps yet be room for an attempt yet unessayed; for
a study by the ear alone of Shakespeare's metrical progress, and a study by light of the knowledge
thus obtained of the corresponsive progress within, which found expression and embodiment in
these outward and visible changes.  The one study will be then seen to be the natural complement
and the inevitable consequence of the other; and the patient pursuit of the simpler and more
apprehensible object of research will appear as the only sure method by which a reasonable
and faithful student may think to attain so much as the porch or entrance to that higher knowledge
which no faithful and reasonable study of Shakespeare can ever for a moment fail to keep in
sight as the haven of its final hope, the goal of its ultimate labour.

When we speak of the drama that existed before the coming of Marlowe, and that vanished at
his advent, we think usually of the rhyming plays written wholly or mainly in ballad verse
of fourteen syllables--of the Kings Darius and Cambyses, the Promos and Cassandra of Whetstone,
or the Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes of George Peele.  If we turn from these abortions of tragedy
to the metrical farces which may fairly be said to contain the germ or embryo of English comedy
(a form of dramatic art which certainly owes nothing to the father of our tragic stage), we
find far more of hope and promise in the broad free stretches of the flagellant head-master
of Eton and the bibulous Bishop of Bath and Wells; and must admit that hands used to wield
the crosier or the birch proved themselves more skilful at the lighter labours of the stage,
more successful even in the secular and bloodless business of a field neither clerical nor
scholastic, than any tragic rival of the opposite party to that so jovially headed by Orbilius
Udall and Silenus Still.  These twin pillars of church and school and stage were strong enough
to support on the shoulders of their authority the first crude fabric or formless model of
our comic theatre, while the tragic boards were still creaking and cracking under the jingling
canter of Cambyses or the tuneless tramp of Gorboduc. When he was asked by the Duke of Argyle how
he had gained this knowledge, he replied, "I first learned to read; and the masons being at work
on your house, I saw that the architect used a rule and compasses, and that he made calculations.
This, my lord, is what I have done; and it seems to me that we may learn anything when we know the
twenty-four letters of the alphabet." The Duke, pleased with this simple answer, drew Stone
out of obscurity, and provided for him an employment which allowed
of his favourite pursuit.  There
can be no verse where there is no modulation, no rhythm where there is no music.  Blank verse
came into life in England at the birth of the shoemaker's son who had but to open his yet beardless
lips, and the high-born poem which had Sackville to father and Sidney to sponsor was silenced
and eclipsed for ever among the poor plebeian crowd of rhyming shadows that waited in death
on the noble nothingness of its patrician shade.

These, I suppose, are the first or the only plays whose names recur to the memory of the general
reader when he thinks of the English stage before Marlowe; but there was, I suspect, a whole
class of plays then current, and more or less supported by popular favour, of which hardly
a sample is now extant, and which cannot be classed with such as these.  The poets or rhymesters
who supplied them had already seen good to clip the cumbrous and bedraggled skirts of those
dreary verses, run all to seed and weed, which jingled their thin bells at the tedious end
of fourteen weary syllables; and for this curtailment of the shambling and sprawling lines
which had hitherto done duty as tragic metre some credit may be due to these obscure purveyors
of forgotten ware for the second epoch of our stage: if indeed, as I presume, we may suppose
that this reform, such as it was, had begun before the time of Marlowe; otherwise, no doubt,
little credit would be due to men who with so high an example before them were content simply
to snip away the tags and fringes, to patch the seams and tatters, of the ragged coat of rhyme
which they might have exchanged for that royal robe of heroic verse wherewith he had clothed
the ungrown limbs of limping and lisping tragedy.  But if these also may be reckoned among
his precursors, the dismissal from stage service of the dolorous and drudging metre employed
by the earliest school of theatrical rhymesters must be taken to mark a real step in advance;
and in that case we possess at least a single example of the rhyming tragedies which had their
hour between the last plays written wholly or partially in ballad metre and the first plays
written in blank verse.  The tragedy of Selimus, Emperor of the Turks, published in 1594, {30}
may then serve to indicate this brief and obscure period of transition.  Whole scenes of this
singular play are written in rhyming iambics, some in the measure of Don Juan, some in the
measure of Venus and Adonis.  The couplets and quatrains so much affected and so reluctantly
abandoned by Shakespeare after the first stage of his dramatic progress are in no other play
that I know of diversified by this alternate variation of sesta with ottava rima.  This may
have been an exceptional experiment due merely to the caprice of one eccentric rhymester; but
in any case we may assume it to mark the extreme limit, the ultimate development of rhyming
tragedy after the ballad metre had been happily exploded.  The play is on other grounds worth
attention as a sign of the times, though on poetical grounds it is assuredly worth none.  Part
of it is written in blank verse, or at least in rhymeless lines; so that after all it probably
followed in the wake of Tamburlaine, half adopting and half rejecting the innovations of that
fiery reformer, who wrought on the old English stage no less a miracle than Hernani on the
French stage in the days of our fathers.  That Selimus was published four years later than
Tamburlaine, in the year following the death of Marlowe, proves of course nothing as to the
date of its production; and even if it was written and acted in the year of its publication,
it undoubtedly in the main represents the work of a prior era to the reformation of the stage
by Marlowe.  The level regularity of its unrhymed scenes is just like that of the weaker portions
of Titus Andronicus and the First Part of King Henry the Sixth--the opening scene, for example,
of either play.  With Andronicus it has also in common the quality of exceptional monstrosity,
a delight in the parade of mutilation as well as of massacre.  It seems to me possible that
the same hand may have been at work on all three plays; for that Marlowe's is traceable in
those parts of the two retouched by Shakespeare which bear no traces of his touch is a theory
to the full as absurd as that which would impute to Shakespeare the charge of their entire
composition.

The revolution effected by Marlowe naturally raised the same cry against its author as the
revolution effected by Hugo.  That Shakespeare should not at once have enlisted under his banner
is less inexplicable than it may seem.  He was naturally addicted to rhyme, though if we put
aside the Sonnets we must admit that in rhyme he never did anything worth Marlowe's Hero and
Leander: he did not, like Marlowe, see at once that it must be reserved for less active forms
of poetry than the tragic drama; and he was personally, it seems, in opposition to Marlowe
and his school of academic playwrights--the band of bards in which Oxford and Cambridge were
respectively and so respectably represented by Peele and Greene.  But in his very first plays,
comic or tragic or historic, we can see the collision and conflict of the two influences; his
evil angel, rhyme, yielding step by step and note by note to the strong advance of that better
genius who came to lead him into the loftier path of Marlowe. There is not a single passage
in Titus Andronicus more Shakespearean than the magnificent quatrain of Tamora upon the eagle
and the little birds; but the rest of the scene in which we come upon it, and the whole scene
preceding, are in blank verse of more variety and vigour than we find in the baser parts of
the play; and these if any scenes we may surely attribute to Shakespeare. {33}  In style it
is not, I think, above the range of George Peele at his best: and to have written even the
last of those scenes can add but little discredit to the memory of a man already disgraced
as the defamer of Eleanor of Castile; while it would be a relief to feel assured that there
was but one English poet of any genius who could be capable of either villainy.

In this play, then, more decisively than in Titus Andronicus, we find Shakespeare at work (so
to speak) with both hands--with his left hand of rhyme, and his right hand of blank verse.
The left is loth to forego the practice of its peculiar music; yet, as the action of the right
grows freer and its touch grows stronger, it becomes more and more certain that the other must
cease playing, under pain of producing mere discord and disturbance in the scheme of tragic
harmony.  We imagine that the writer must himself have felt the scene of the roses to be pitched
in a truer key than the noble scene of parting between the old hero and his son on the verge
of desperate battle and certain death.  This is the last and loftiest farewell note of rhyming
tragedy; still, in King Richard II, and in Romeo and Juliet, it struggles for awhile to keep
its footing, but now more visibly in vain.  The rhymed scenes in these plays are too plainly
the survivals of a ruder and feebler stage of work; they cannot hold their own in the new order
with even such discordant effect of incongruous excellence and inharmonious beauty as belongs
to the death- scene of the Talbots when matched against the quarrelling scene of Somerset and
York.  Yet the briefest glance over the plays of the first epoch in the work of Shakespeare
will suffice to show how protracted was the struggle and how gradual the defeat of rhyme. 
Setting aside the retouched plays, we find on the list one tragedy, two histories, and four
if not five comedies, which the least critical reader would attribute to this first epoch of
work.  In three of these comedies rhyme can hardly be said to be beaten; that is, the rhyming
scenes are on the whole equal to the unrhymed in power and beauty.  In the single tragedy,
and in one of the two histories, we may say that rhyme fights hard for life, but is undeniably
worsted; that is, they contain as to quantity a large proportion of rhymed verse, but as to
quality the rhymed part bears no proportion whatever to the unrhymed.  In two scenes we may
say that the whole heart or spirit of Romeo and Juliet is summed up and distilled into perfect
and pure expression; and these two are written in blank verse of equable and blameless melody.
Outside the garden scene in the second act and the balcony scene in the third, there is much
that is fanciful and graceful, much of elegiac pathos and fervid if fantastic passion; much
also of superfluous rhetoric and (as it were) of wordy melody, which flows and foams hither
and thither into something of extravagance and excess; but in these two there is no flaw, no
outbreak, no superflux, and no failure. Neither of the parties having experienced the least
symptom of the epidemic during the next twenty-four hours, the seconds declared that the two
adversaries had satisfied the laws of honour, and the affair was consequently settled.--SWAINE.
  And here we may
with deference venture on a guess why Shakespeare was so long so loth to forego the restraint
of rhyme.  When he wrote, and even when he rewrote or at least retouched, his youngest tragedy
he had not yet strength to walk straight in the steps of the mighty master, but two months
older than himself by birth, whose foot never from the first faltered in the arduous path of
severer tragic verse.  The loveliest of love-plays is after all a child of "his salad days,
when he was green in judgment," though assuredly not "cold in blood"--a physical condition
as difficult to conceive of Shakespeare at any age as of Cleopatra.  It is in the scenes of
vehement passion, of ardour and of agony, that we feel the comparative weakness of a yet ungrown
hand, the tentative uncertain grasp of a stripling giant.  The two utterly beautiful scenes
are not of this kind; they deal with simple joy and with simple sorrow, with the gladness of
meeting and the sadness of parting love; but between and behind them come scenes of more fierce
emotion, full of surprise, of violence, of unrest; and with these the poet is not yet (if I
dare say so) quite strong enough to deal.  Apollo has not yet put on the sinews of Hercules.
At a later date we may fancy or may find that when the Herculean muscle is full-grown the voice
in him which was as the voice of Apollo is for a passing moment impaired.  In Measure for Measure,
where the adult and gigantic god has grappled with the greatest and most terrible of energies
and of passions, we miss the music of a younger note that rang through Romeo and Juliet; but
before the end this too revives, as pure, as sweet, as fresh, but richer now and deeper than
its first clear notes of the morning, in the heavenly harmony of Cymbeline and The Tempest.

