I write with a capital I at the risk of being accused of egotism. Apparently it is more modest
to be conceited in the third person, like the child who says "Tommy is a good boy," or in the
first person plural, like the leader-writer of "The Times," who bids the Continent tremble
at his frown. By a singular fallacy, which ought scarcely to deceive children, it is forgotten
that everything that has ever been written since the world began has been written by some one
person, by an "I," though that "I" might have been omitted from the composition or replaced
by the journalistic "we." To some extent the journalist does sink his personality in that imaginary
personality of his paper, a personality built up, like the human personality, by its past;
and the result is a pompous, colourless, lifeless simulacrum. But in every other department
of letters the trail of the "I" is over every page and every sentence. The most impersonal
essays and poems are all in a sense egoistic. Everything should really be between inverted
commas with an introductory Thus say I. But as these are omitted, as being understood, they
come at last to be misunderstood.

In the days ere writing was invented, this elementary error was not possible. The words were
heard issuing from the lips of a single man; every opinion, every law of conduct, must have
been at first formulated through the lips of some one man. And to this day, in spite of the
wilderness of tradition and authority by which we are overgrown, the voice of the one man is
still our only living source of inspiration and help. Every new thought must pass through the
brain, every moral ideal through the conscience, of an individual. Voices, voices, we want--not
echoes. Better the mistaken voice of honest individuality than the soulless bleat of the flock.
There are too many of Kipling's Tomlinsons in the world, whose consciences are wholly compact
of on dits, on whom the devil himself, sinned they never so sadly, would refuse to waste his
good pit-coal. "Bad taste"--that opprobrious phrase which, worse than the accusation of a crime,
cannot be refuted, for it is the king of the question-beggars,--"bad taste" is responsible
for half the reticence that marks current writing, for the failure to prick the bladders of
every species that bloat themselves all around us. "Good taste" is the staunchest ally of hypocrisy,
and corruption is the obverse side of civilisation. I do not believe in these general truths
that rule the market. What is "true for all" is false for each. It is the business of every
man to speak out, to be himself, to contribute his own thought to the world's thinking--to
be egoistic. To be egoistic is not to be egotistic. Egoism should be distinguished from egotism.
The egoist thinks for himself, the egotist about himself. Mr. Meredith's Sir Willoughby should
not have been styled the Egoist. The egoist offers his thought to his fellow-men, the egotist
thinks it is the only thought worth their acceptance. These papers of mine joyously plead guilty
to egoism, but not to egotism. If they, for instance, pretend to appraise the powers of my
contemporaries, they do not pretend to be more than an individual appraisal. Whoever wants
another opinion can go somewhere else. There is no lack of practitioners in criticism, more
or less skilful. There must be a struggle for existence among opinions, as among all other
things, and the egoist is content to send the children of his thought into the thick of the
fray, confident that the fittest will survive. Only he is not so childish as to make-believe
that an impersonal dignified something-not-himself that makes for the ink-pot is speaking--and
not he himself, he "with his little I." The affectation of modesty is perhaps the most ludicrous
of all human shams. I am reminded of the two Jews who quarrelled in synagogue, during the procession
of palm-branches, because each wanted to be last, as befitted the humblest man in Israel, which
each claimed to be. This is indeed "the pride that apes humility." There is a good deal of
this sort of pride in the careful and conscientious suppression of the egoistic in books and
speeches. I have nothing of this modesty to be proud of. I know that I am cleverer than the
man in the street, though I take no credit to myself for it, as it is a mere accident of birth,
and on the whole a regrettable one. It was this absence of modesty from my composition that
recently enabled me to propose the toast of literature coupled with the name of Mr. Zangwill.
I said that I could wish that some one more competent and distinguished than myself had been
chosen to do justice to such a toast and to such a distinguished man of letters, but I did
my best to pay him the tribute he deserved ere I sat down amid universal applause. When I rose
amid renewed cheers to reply, I began by saying that I could wish that some one more competent
and distinguished than myself had been chosen to respond to so important a toast--the last
speaker had considerably overrated my humble achievements in the fields of literature. So that
you see I could easily master the modest manner, if I took any pains or set any store by it.
But in my articles of faith the "I" is just what I would accentuate most, the "I" through which
for each of us the universe flows, by which any truth must be perceived in order to be true,
and which is not to be replaced by that false abstraction, the communal mind. Here are a laughing
philosopher's definitions of some cardinal things:

    Philosophy--All my I.
    Art--All my Eye. The
    proper number to constitute a safe representation is a matter of
judgment, in which honest and wise men often disagree.

Were it possible for all the people to convene and give their personal assent, some would think
this the best mode of making laws, but in the present instance it is impracticable. In towns and
smaller districts where all the people may meet conveniently and without expense this is doubtless
preferable. The state representation is composed of one or two from every town and district,
which composes an assembly not so large as to be unwieldy in acting, nor so expensive as to burden
the people. But if so numerous a representation were made from every part of the United States,
with our present population, the new Congress would consist of three thousand men; with the
population of Great Britain, to which we may arrive in half a century, of ten thousand; and with
the population of France, which we shall probably equal in a century and a half, of thirty
thousand.

Such a body of men might be an army to defend the country in case of foreign invasion, but not
a legislature, and the expense to support them would equal the whole national revenue. By the
proposed constitution the new Congress will consist of nearly one hundred men; when our population
is equal to Great Britain of three hundred men, and when equal to France of nine hundred. Plenty of
Lawgivers! why any gentlemen should wish for more is not conceivable.

Considering the immense territory of America, the objection with many will be on the other side;
that when the whole is populated it will constitute a legislature unmanageable by its numbers.
Convention foreseeing this danger, have so worded the article, that if the people should at
any future time judge necessary, they may diminish the representation.

As the state legislatures have to regulate the internal policy of every town and neighborhood,
it is convenient enough to have one or two men, particularly acquainted with every small district
of country, its interests, parties and passions. But the federal legislature can take cognizance
only of national questions and interests which in their very nature are general, and for this purpose
five or ten honest and wise men chosen from each state; men who have had previous experience in state
legislation, will be more competent than an hundred. From an acquaintance with their own state legislatures,
they will always know the sense of the people at large, and the expense
of supporting such a number will be as much as we ought to incur.

If the Hon. gentleman, in saying “there is not adequate provision for the representation of the
people,” refers to the manner of choosing them, a reply to this is naturally blended with
its second objection, that “they would have no security for the right of election.” It is impossible
to conceive what greater security can be given, by any form of words, than we here find.

The federal representatives are to be chosen by the votes of the people. Every freeman is an
elector. The same qualification which enables you to vote for state representatives, gives
you a federal voice. It is a right you cannot lose, unless you first annihilate the state legislature,
and declare yourself incapable of electing, which is a degree of
infatuation improbable as a second deluge to drown the world.

Your
own assemblies are to regulate the formalities of this choice, and
unless they betray you, you cannot be betrayed. But perhaps it may
be said, Congress have a power to control this formality as to the
time and places of electing, and we allow they have: but this objection
which at first looks frightful was designed as a guard to the privileges
of the electors.

Finally it will be remarked that by dispensing with illustrations I preserve intact my egoism
and the dignity of a rival art. Nothing can be more absurd than the conventional illustration
which merely attempts to picture over again what the writer has already pictured in words.
Not only is the effort superfluous, a waste of force, but the artist's picture is too often
in flat contradiction of the text. Whom are you to believe, the author or the artist? the man
who tells you that the heroine is ethereal, or the man who plainly demonstrates that she is
podgy? How often, too, do the people dress differently in the words and in the picture, not
to speak of the shifting backgrounds! Dickens had so much difficulty with his illustrations
because he saw his characters so much more clearly than any other novelist; the sight of his
inner eye was so good. And one can understand, too, how Cruikshank came to fancy he had created
Oliver Twist, much as an actor imagines he "creates" a character. The true collaboration between
author and artist requires that the work should be divided between them, not reduplicated.
Those parts of the story which need the intervention of words should be allotted to the writer,
while to the artist should be entrusted the parts better told by pencil. Neither need trench
on the other's province. Description--which so many readers skip already--would be abolished.
Even incidents--such as murder--could be caught by the artist in the act. And after the artist
had killed a character, the author could preach over his corpse. Thus there would be an agreeable
reversion to picture-language, the earliest way of writing, and the latest. The ends of the
ages would meet in a romance written on these lines:--

"Sick at heart we watched till the grey dawn stole in through the diamond-paned casements of
the Grange, and then, at last, when we had given up all hope, we saw coming up the gravel pathway----"

]

After which the author proceeds: "Fascinated by the blood that dripped from the edges of the
eight umbrellas, we stood silent; then, throwing off our coats, we----

]

"So that was how I won the sweetest little bride I ever wedded. But if I live to wed a hundred,
I shall never forget that terrible night in Grewsome Grange.

"THE END."

[* Transcriber's note: So in original. These are not placeholders for actual illustrations
in the book.]

My friend the artist once collaborated with me in an experiment of this sort, but we did not
pursue it, discovering how feeble an advance ours would be after all; for there were points
at which both of us felt we ought to give way to the tone-poet. When the emotions became too
intangible for intellectual expression I asked my friend the musician to insert paragraphs
in a minor key. The love-scenes I was particularly anxious to have written in musical phrases.
But he shrank from so unconventional a form, not being sure he was a genius. I was also disheartened
by the disappointing behaviour of the diverse scents with which I had expressed myself on certain
blank pages. They would not remain in their places.

II

TUNING UP

They were "tuning up" in a wooden hall, stupidly built on the pier to shut off the sea and
the night (a penny to pay for the privation), and in that strange cacophony of desolate violin
strings, tuneless trombones, and doleful double basses, in that homeless wail of forlorn brass
and lost catgut, I found a music sweeter than a Beethoven symphony; for memory's tricksy finger
touched of a sudden the source of tears, and flashed before the inner eye a rainbow-lit panorama
of the early joys of the theatre--the joys that are no more. Was it even at a theatre--was
it even more than an interlude in a diorama?--that divine singing of "The Last Rose of Summer"
by a lady in evening dress, whose bust is, perhaps for me alone in all the world, still youthful?
Was it from this hall of the siren, or was it from some later enchantment, that I, an infant
Ulysses, struggled home by night along a sea road, athwart a gale that well-nigh blew me out
to sea? How fierce that salt wind blew, a-yearn to drive me to the shore's edge and whirl me
over! How fresh and tameless it beats against me yet, blowing the cobwebs from my brain as
that real breeze outside the pier could never do! When my monitory friends gabble of change
of air I inhale that wind and am strong. For the child is of the elements, elemental, and the
man of the complexities, complex. And so that good salt wind blows across my childhood still,
though it cannot sweep away the mist that hovers thereover.

For who shall say whether 't was I or my sister who was borne shrieking with fear from the
theatre when the black man, "Othello," appeared on the boards! The first clear memory of things
dramatic is of an amateur performance--alas! I have seen few others. 'T was a farce--when was
an amateur performance other? There was much play of snuff-boxes passed punctiliously 'twixt
irascible old gentlemen with coloured handkerchiefs. Also there was dinner beforehand--my first
experience of chicken and champagne. And then there is a great break till the real theatre
rises stately and splendid, like Britannia ruling the waves--nay, Britannia herself, or, as
they call it lovingly down Shoreditch way, "the Brit."

When to my fashionable friends I have held forth on the glories and the humours of "the Brit.,"
they have taken it for granted, and I have lacked the courage or the energy to undeceive them,
that my visits to this temple of the people were expeditions of Haroun Al Raschid in the back
streets of Bagdad or adventures of Prince Florizel in Rupert Street; but of a truth I have
climbed the gallery stairs in sober boyish earnestness, elbowed of the gods, and elbowing,
and if I did not yield to the seductions of "ginger-beer and Banbury" that filled up clamantly
the entr'actes, 't was that I had not the coppers. "Guy Fawkes" was my first piece, in the
days when the drama's "fireworks" were not epigrams, and so the smell of the sulphur still
purifies the air. All the long series of "London successes," with their array of genius and
furniture, have faded like insubstantial pageants, but the rude vault piled with flour-barrels
for the desperado's torch is fixed as by chemic process. Consider the preparation of the brain
for that memory. What! I should actually go to a play--that far-off wonder! "The Miller and
his Men" cut in cardboard should no longer stave off my longing for the living passion of the
theatre. 'T was a very elongated young man who took me, a young cigar-maker fond of reciting,
spouting Shakespeare from a sixpenny edition, playing Hamlet mentally as he rolled the tobacco-leaf.
There was a halo about his head, for he was on speaking terms with the low comedian of the
"Brit.," and, I understood, was permitted upon occasion to pay for a pint of half-and-half.
Alas! all this did not avail to save him from an early tomb. Poor worshipper of the green room,
perchance thy ghost still walks there. Or is there room in some other world for thy baffled
aspirations?

In such clouds of glory did the drama first come to me, sulphurously splendid. In the "Brit."
I made my first acquaintance with the limelit humanity that, magnificent in its crimes and
in its virtues, sins or suffers in false eyebrows or white muslin to the sound of soft music.
Here I met that strange creation, the villain--a being as mythic, meseems, as the centaur,
and, like it, more beast than man. The "Brit." was a hot place for villains, the gallery accepting
none but the highest principles of speech and conduct, and ginger-beer were not too weighty
a form of expressing detestation of the more comprehensive breaches of the decalogue. Hisses
the villain never escaped, and I was puzzled to know how the poor actor could discriminate
betwixt the hiss ethical and the hiss aesthetic. But perhaps no player ever received the latter;
the house was very loyal to its favourites, all of whom had their well-defined roles in every
play, which spared the playwrights the task of indicating character. Before the heroine had
come on we knew that she was young and virtuous--had she not been so for the last five and
twenty years?--the comic man had not to open his mouth for us to begin to laugh; a latent sibilance
foreran the villain. Least mutable of all, the hero swaggered on, virtuous without mawkishness,
pugnacious without brutality. How sublime a destiny, to stand for morals and muscle to the
generations of Hoxton, to incarnate the copy-book crossed with the "Sporting Times!" Were they
bearable in private life, these monsters of virtue?

J. B. Howe was long this paragon of men--affectionately curtailed to Jabey. Once, when the
villain was about to club him, "Look out, Jabey!" cried an agonised female voice. It followed
from the happy understanding on both sides of the curtain that--give ear, O envious lessees!--no
play ever failed. How could it? It was always the same play.

Of like kidney was the Grecian Theatre, where one went out between the acts to dance, or to
see the dancing, upon a great illuminated platform. 'T was the drama brought back to its primitive
origins in the Bacchic dances--the Grecian Theatre, in good sooth! How they footed it under
the stars, those regiments of romping couples, giggling, flirting, munching! Alas! Fuit Troja!
The Grecian is "saved." Its dancing days are over, it is become the Headquarters of Salvation.
But it is still gay with music, virtue triumphs on, and vice grovels at the penitent form.
In such quaint wise hath the "Eagle" renewed its youth, for the Grecian began life as the Eagle,
and was Satan's deadliest lure to the 'prentices of Clerkenwell and their lasses:

  Up and down the City Road,
    In and out the Eagle;
  That's the way the money goes!
    Pop goes the weasel.

Concerning which immortal lines one of your grammatical pedants has observed, "There ain't
no rhyme to City Road, there ain't no rhyme to Eagle." Great pantomimes have I seen at the
Grecian--a happy gallery boy at three pence--pantomimes compact of fun and fantasy, far surpassing,
even to the man's eye, the gilded dullnesses of Drury Lane. The pantomimes of the Pavilion,
too, were frolicsome and wondrous, marred only by the fact that I knew one of the fairies in
real life, a good-natured girl who sewed carpet-slippers for a living. The Pavilion, by the
way, is in the Whitechapel Road, not a mile from the People's Palace, in the region where,
according to the late Mr. Walter Besant, nobody ever laughs. The Pavilion, like the "Brit.,"
had its stock company, and when the leading lady appeared for her Benefit as "Portia," she
was not the less applauded for being drunk. The quality of mercy is not strained. And what
more natural than that one should celebrate one's benefit by getting drunk? Sufficient that
"Shylock" was sober!

In Music-Halls, the East-End was as rich as the West,--was it not the same talent that appeared
at both, like Sir Boyle Roche's bird, winging its way from one to t' other in cabs? Those were
the days of the great Macdermott, who gave Jingoism to English history, of the great Vance,
of the lion comiques, in impeccable shirt-fronts and crush hats. There was still a chairman
with a hammer, who accepted champagne from favoured mortals, stout gentlemen with gold chains,
who might even aspire to conversation with the comiques themselves. Sic itur ad astra. Now
there is only a chairman of directors who may, perhaps, scorn to be seen in a music-hall: a
grave and potent seignior whose relations with the footlights may be purely financial. There
were still improvisatori who would turn you topical verses on any subject, and who, on the
very evening of Derby-day, could rhyme the winner when unexpectedly asked by the audience to
do so. A verse of Fred Coyne's--let me recall the name from the early oblivion which gathers
over the graves of those who live amid the shouts of worshippers--still lingers in my memory,
bearing in itself its own chronology:

  And though we could wish, some beneficent fairy
    Had preserved the life of the Prince so dear,
  Yet we WON'T lay the blame on Lieutenant Carey;
    And these are the latest events of the year.

With what an answering pandemonium we refused to hold the lieutenant accountable for the death
of the victim of the African assegais! And the ladies! How ravishingly they flashed upon the
boards, in frocks that, like Charles Lamb at the India Office, made up for beginning late by
finishing early! How I used to agree with the bewitching creature who sang that lovely lyric
strangely omitted from the Anthologies:

  What a nice place to be in!
  What a nice place, I 'm sure!
  Such a very jolly place,
  I've never seen before.
  It gives me, oh! such pleasure,
  And it fills my heart with bliss,
  I could stay here for ever:
  What a nice place is this!

Such eyes she made at me--at whom else?--aloft in the balcony; and oh, what arch smiles, what
a play of white teeth! If we could only have met! Yester-year at a provincial town some one
offered to introduce her to me. She was still playing principal boy in the pantomime--a gay,
gallant Prince, in plumed cap and tights. But I declined. Another of the great comic singers
of my childhood--a man--I met on a Margate steamboat. He told me of the lost glories of the
ancient days quorum pars magna fuit, and of the after-histories of his great rivals. One, I
recollect, had retired with a fortune, opened a magnificent Temperance Hotel at the seaside,
and then broken his neck by falling down his own splendid staircase, drunk. "Ah," said the
veteran, sighing at an overcrowded profession, "there were only two or three comic singers
in those days." "There are only two or three now," quoth I. And the old man beamed. Another
ancient hero of the halls, long since translated to the theatres, whom I first saw at a music-hall
in St. Giles', buttonholed me the other night in St. James', in the halls of a Duchess: a curious
meeting. That I should have ever reverenced him seemed as strange as that there should be still
people to reverence the coronet of the Duchess. Yes, it is very far off, that magic time when
the world was full of splendid things and splendid men and women, a great Fair, and I, like
the child in Henley's poem, wandered about, enjoying, desiring, possessing. Now I know there
is nothing worth wanting, and nothing but poor flesh and blood, despite all the costumes and
accessories. For there is no sense in which I have not been "behind the scenes." And as for
the literal theatric sense, I have flirted with the goddesses at the wings till they have missed
their cues, I have supped at the Garrick Club of a Saturday night, when all the stars come
out, I have toured with a travelling company, I have had words of my own spoken by dainty lips,--nay,
I have even played myself, en amateur, the irascible old gentleman with the snuff-box and the
coloured handkerchief. And what is there to say of the human spectacle, but that perhaps the
pains and the crimes are necessary to the show, and that without a blood-and-thunder plot human
life would not run, drying up of its own dullness? "All the world's a stage," and we are all
cast for stock roles. Some of us have the luck to be heroes, the complacent centre of eternal
plaudits, some are born for villainy and the brickbat. And while others have had to play goodness
knows what--mediaeval Italian princesses, Cockney cabmen, old Greek hetairae, German cuirassiers,
American presidents, burglars, South Sea Islanders--I find myself--for the first time on any
stage--in the applauded role of man of letters, if with little option of throwing up the part.
They have an optimistic phrase, those happy-go-lucky creatures of the footlights, when, on
the very day of production, nobody knows his words or his business, the scene will not shape
itself, and chaos is lord. "It will be all right at night," they say. And we, who play our
parts gropingly on this confused and noisy scene, wondering what is the plot, and where is
the manager, and straining our ears for the prompter's whisper, can but echo with another significance
their cheery hope: "It will be all right at night." Perhaps, when the long day's work has drawn
to its end, and the curtain, has fallen upon the plaudits and the hisses, we shall all sit
down to supper after the play, complimented by the Author, smiling at the seriousness with
which we took our roles of hero or villain, and glad to be done with, the make-up and the paint.
And in the music that shall hover about our table, we may perhaps find a celestial restfulness,
compared to which the most exquisite orchestras of this earth shall sound but as "tuning up."

III

ART IN ENGLAND

