"Oh, yes; of course they do. Mrs. Bangster takes her half-pint of brandy every night for her
health's sake, no doubt. Would you believe it, Mr. Bertram, the doctor absolutely had to take
her out of the saloon one night in the 'Lahore'? Didn't he, Mrs. Price?"

"Indeed he did. I never was so shocked.--Just a little drop more to freshen it." And Mr. Wilkinson
gave her another glass of porter.

Before they reached Malta, all the passengers from India had agreed that Mrs. Cox and Bertram
would certainly make a match of it, and that Wilkinson was also in danger.

"Did you ever see such flirts?" said Mrs. Bangster to Dr. O'Shaughnessey. "What an escape Biffin
has had!"

"She is a deuced pretty woman, Mrs. Bangster; and I'll tell you what: Biffin would give one
of his eyes to get her back again if he could."

"Laws, doctor! You don't mean to tell me that he ever meant to marry that thing?"

"I don't know what he meant before; but he would mean it now, if he got the opportunity."

Here Captain M'Gramm joined them. "Well, Mac," said the doctor, "what news with the widow?"

"Widow! they'd all be widows if they could, I believe."

"Indeed, I wouldn't, for one," said Mrs. Bangster. "B. is a deal too well off where he is.
Ha! ha! ha!"

"But what about Mrs. Price--eh, Mac?" continued the doctor.

"There she is. You'd better go and ask her yourself. You don't suppose I ever cared about such
a woman as that? Only I do say this: if she goes on behaving herself in that way, some one
ought to speak to the captain."

But Mrs. Cox and Mrs. Price went on their own way, heeding such menaces not at all; and by
the time they had reached Malta, they had told the whole history of their lives to the two
gentlemen--and perhaps something more.

At Malta they remained about six hours, and the four dined on shore together. Bertram bought
for them Maltese veils and bad cameos; and Wilkinson, misled by such an example, was forced
to do the same. These treasures were not hidden under a bushel when they returned to the ship;
and Dr. O'Shaughnessey, Mrs. Bangster, the fat judge, and a host of others, were more sure
than ever that both the widows were re-engaged.

And Arthur Wilkinson was becoming frightened in his mind. "Upon my word," said he, as he and
George were walking the deck at sunrise the next morning, "upon my word, I am getting very
tired of this woman, and I really think we are making a show of ourselves."

"Making a show of ourselves! What do you mean?"

"Why, walking with them every day, and always sitting next to them."

"As to sitting next to them, we can't help that. Everybody always sits in the same place, and
one must sit next some one; and it wouldn't be kind to leave them to walk alone."

"I think we may overdo it, you know."

"Ah, well," said George, "you have some one else to think about. I have no one, unless it be
this widow. She is kind to me, and as to what the world says, I care nothing about it."

On that day Wilkinson was busy with his books, and did not walk with Mrs. Price--a piece of
neglect which sat uneasily on that lady's mind. But at ten o'clock, as usual, Bertram was pacing
the deck with Mrs. Cox.

"What is the matter with your friend?" said she.

"Oh, nothing. He is home-sick, I suppose."

"I hope he has not quarrelled with Minnie." For the two ladies had come to call each other
by their Christian names when they were in company with the gentlemen; and Bertram had once
or twice used that of Mrs. Cox, not exactly in speaking to her, but in speaking of her in her
presence.

"Oh dear, no," said Bertram.

"Because it is so odd he should not give her his arm as usual. I suppose you will be treating
me so as we draw nearer to Southampton?" And she looked up at him with a bewitching smile,
and pressed gently on his arm, and then let her eyes fall upon the deck.

My brother, when you see these tricks played upon other men, the gall rises black within your
breast, and you loudly condemn wiles which are so womanly, but which are so unworthy of women.
But how do you feel when they are played upon yourself? The gall is not so black, the condemnation
less loud; your own merit seems to excuse the preference which is shown you; your heart first
forgives and then applauds. Is it not so, my brother, with you? So it was, at least, with George
Bertram.

"What! treating you with neglect, because we are soon to part?"

"Yes, exactly so; just that; because we are soon to part. That is what makes it so bitter.
We have been such good friends, haven't we?"

"And why should we not remain so? Why should we talk of parting? We are both going to England."

"England! Yes, but England is a large place. Come, let us lean on the taffrail, and look at
the dolphins. There is that horrid fellow eyeing me, as he always does; Major Biffin, I mean.
Is he not exactly like a barber's block? I do so hate him!"

"But he doesn't hate you, Mrs. Cox."

"Doesn't he? Well then, he may if he likes. But don't let's talk of him. Talk to me about England,
Mr. Bertram. Sometimes I do so long to be there--and then sometimes I don't."

"You don't--why not?"

"Do you?"

"No, I do not; I tell you frankly. I'd sooner be here with you to talk to, with you to look at."

"Psha, Mr. Bertram! what nonsense! I can't conceive that any woman can ever be worth looking
at on board a ship--much less such a one as I! I know you're dying to get home."

"I might be if I had a home."

"Is your home with that uncle of yours?" She had heard so much of his family; but he had as
yet spoken to her no word about Caroline. "I wonder what he would say if he could see you now
leaning here and talking to me."

"If he has any knowledge of human nature, he would say that I was a very happy fellow."

"And are you?" As she asked him, she looked up into his face with such an arch smile that he
could not find it in his heart to condemn her.

"What will you think of my gallantry if I say no?"

"I hate gallantry; it is all bosh. I wish I were a man, and that I could call you Bertram,
and that you would call me Cox."

"I would sooner call you Annie."

"Would you? But that wouldn't be right, would it?" And her hand, which was still within his
arm, was pressed upon it with ever so light a pressure.

"I don't know why it should be wrong to call people by their Christian names. Should you be
angry if I called you Annie?"

"That might depend-- Tell me this, Mr. Bertram: How many other ladies do you call by their
Christian names?"

"A dozen or two."

"I'll be bound you do."

"And may I add you to the number?"

"No, Mr. Bertram; certainly not."

"May I not? So intimate as we have become, I thought--"

"I will not be one of a dozen or two." And as she answered him, she dropped her tone of raillery,
and spoke in a low, soft, sweet voice. It sounded so sweet on Bertram's ear.

"But if there be not one--not one other; not one other now--what then, Annie?"

"Not one other now?--Did you say now? Then there has been one."

"Yes; there has been one."

"And she--what of her?"

"It is a tale I cannot tell."

"Not to me? I should not like you the less for telling me. Do tell me." And she pressed her
hand again upon his arm. "I have known there was something that made you unhappy."

"Have you?"

"Oh, yes. I have long known that. And I have so wished to be a comfort to you--if I could.
I, too, have had great suffering."

"I am sure you have."

"Ah! yes. I did not suffer less because he had been unkind to me." And she put her handkerchief
to her eyes, and then brought her hand again upon his arm. "But tell me of her--your one. She
is not your one now--is she, Mr. Bertram?"

"No, Annie; not now."

"Is she--?" And she hesitated to ask whether the lady were dead, or married to some one else.
It might, after all, only be a lovers' quarrel.

"I drove her from me--and now she is a wife."

"Drove her from you! Alas! alas!" said Mrs. Cox, with the sweetest emphasis of sympathy. But
the result of her inquiries was not unsatisfactory to her.

"I don't know why I should have told you this," said he.

"I am so glad you have," she replied.

"But now that I have told you--"

"Well--"

"Now may I call you Annie?"

"You have done so two or three times."

"But may I?"

"If it please you, you may." And the words, though whispered very low, fell clearly upon his ear.

"Dearest Annie!"

"But I did not say you might call me that."

"But you are."

"Am I?"

"Dearest--all but she. Will that make you angry with me?"

"No, not angry; but--"

"But what?"

She looked up at him, pouting with her lip. There was a half-smile on her mouth, and half a
tear in her eyes; and her shoulder leant against him, and her heart palpitated. She had never
been so beautiful, never so attractive.

"But what--? What would you say, Annie?"

"I would say this.--But I know you will think me very bold."

"I shall not think you too bold if you will say the truth."

"Then I would say this--that if I loved a man, I could love him quite as fondly as she loved you."

"Could you, Annie?"

"I could. But he should not drive me from him, as you say you did her; never--never--never.
He might kill me if he would; but if I once had told him that I loved him, I would never leave
him afterwards."

"Tell me so, Annie."

"No, Mr. Bertram. We have not known each other long enough." And now she took her hand from
his arm, and let it drop by her side.

"Tell me so, dear Annie," he repeated; and he tried to regain her hand.

"There is the luncheon-bell; and since Mr. Wilkinson won't go to Mrs. Price, I must do so."

"Shall I go?" said he.

"Do; I will go down by myself."

"But you love me, Annie?--say that you love me."

"Nonsense. Here is that fellow, Biffin. Do you go for Mrs. Price--leave me to myself."

"Don't go down stairs with him."

"You may be sure I won't--nor with you either this morning. I am half inclined to be angry
with you." And so saying, she moved away.

"Ah, me! what have I done!" said Bertram to himself, as he went upon his mission. "But she
is a sweet creature; as beautiful as Hebe; and why should I be wretched for ever?"

She had moved towards the companion-ladder, and as she did so, Major Biffin followed her.

"Will you not allow me to give you an arm down stairs?" said he.

"Thank you, Major Biffin. It is rather crowded, and I can go better alone."

"You did not find the stairs in the 'Lahore' too crowded."

"Oh, yes, I did; very often. And the 'Lahore' and the 'Cagliari' are different things."

"Very different it seems. But the sea itself is not so fickle as a woman." And Major Biffin
became a picture of injured innocence.

"And the land is not so dry as a man, Major Biffin; that is, some men. Ha! ha! ha! Good-morning,
Major Biffin." And so saying, she went down by herself.

On the next day, Arthur still preferred his book to walking with Mrs. Price; and that lady
was once again seen with her arm in that of Captain M'Gramm's. This made a considerable consternation
in the ship; and in the afternoon there was a slight quarrel between the two ladies.

"And so, Minnie, you are going to take up with that fellow again?"

"No; I am not. But I don't choose to be left altogether to myself."

"I never would have anything to say to a married man that drops his wife as he does."

"I don't care two straws for him, or his wife. But I don't want to make myself conspicuous
by a quarrel."

"I'm sure Wilkinson will be annoyed," said Mrs. Cox.

"He's a muff," said Mrs. Price. "And, if I am not mistaken, I know some one else who is another."

"Who do you mean, Mrs. Price?"

"I mean Mr. Bertram, Mrs. Cox."

"Oh, I dare say he is a muff; that's because he's attentive to me instead of leaving me to
myself, as somebody does to somebody else. I understand all about that, my dear."

"You understand a great deal, I have no doubt," said Mrs. Price. "I always heard as much."

"It seems to me you understand nothing, or you wouldn't be walking about with Captain M'Gramm,"
said Mrs. Cox. And then they parted, before blood was absolutely drawn between them.

At dinner that day they were not very comfortable together. Mrs. Price accepted Mr. Wilkinson's
ordinary courtesies in a stately way, thanking him for filling her glass and looking after
her plate, in a tone and with a look which made it plain to all that things were not progressing
well between them. George and his Annie did get on somewhat better; but even they were not
quite at their ease. Mrs. Cox had said, before luncheon, that she had not known Mr. Bertram
long enough to declare her love for him. The remaining clauses--from 27 to 47--are concerned with
readjustments as to judges, civil servants, police and other matters, and do not vary substantially
from the corresponding clauses in the Bill of 1893 (published in Appendix D). The first meeting
of the Irish Parliament is fixed for the first Tuesday in September,
1913.

There are only two other clauses which require special notice, as
adding fresh provisions to those laid down in the Bill of 1893.

The first is the 26th clause, which gives to the Irish special powers of representation at Westminster
in the case of a revision of the financial arrangements:--

"For the purpose of revising the financial provisions of this Act in pursuance of this section,
there shall be summoned to the Commons House of Parliament of the
United Kingdom such number of members of the Irish House of Commons
as will make the representation of Ireland in the Commons House of
Parliament of the United Kingdom equivalent to the representation
of Great Britain on the basis of population; and the members of the
Irish House of Commons so summoned shall be deemed to be members of
the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom for the purpose
of any such revision."

The second--Clause 42--provides that Irish laws shall be interpreted
always in legal subordination to Acts of the Imperial Parliament:--

"(2)
Where any Act of the Irish Parliament deals with any matter with respect
to which the Irish Parliament have power to make laws which is dealt
with by any Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed after
the passing of this Act and extending to Ireland, the Act of the Irish
Parliament shall be read subject to the Act of the Parliament of the
United Kingdom, and so far as it is repugnant to that Act, but no
further, shall be void."



"If that were all, that would make no difference with me," said Mrs. Cox, magnanimously.

"If that were all, Annie! What does that mean?"

"If I really loved a man, I should not care about his being poor. But your poverty is what
I should call riches, I take it."

"No, indeed. My poverty is absolute poverty. My own present income is about two hundred a year."

"Oh, I don't understand the least about money myself. I never did. I was such a child when
I was married to Cox. But I thought, Mr. Bertram, your uncle was very rich."

"So he is; as rich as a gold-mine. But we are not very good friends--at any rate, not such
friends as to make it probable that he will leave me a farthing. He has a granddaughter of
his own."

This, and a little more of the same kind, taught Mrs. Cox that it behoved her to be cautious.
That Major Biffin had a snug little income over and above that derived from his profession
was a fact that had been very well ascertained. That he was very dry, as dry as a barber's
block, might be true. That George Bertram was an amusing fellow, and made love in much better
style than the major, certainly was true. But little as she might know about money, Mrs. Cox
did know this--that when poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window; that eating
and drinking are stern necessities; that love in a cottage is supposed to be, what she would
call, bosh; and that her own old home used to be very unpleasant when Cox was in debt, and
those eastern Jewish harpies would come down upon him with his overdue bills. Considering all
this, Mrs. Cox thought it might be well not to ratify her engagement with Mr. Bertram till
after they should reach Southampton. What if Biffin--the respectable Biffin--should again come
forward!

And so they went on for a few days longer. Bertram, when they were together, called her Annie,
and once again asked her whether she loved him. "Whether I do, or whether I do not, I shall
give you no answer now," she had said, half laughing. "We have both been very foolish already,
and it is time that we should begin to have our senses. Isn't it?" But still she sat next him
at dinner, and still she walked with him. Once, indeed, he found her saying a word to Major
Biffin, as that gentleman stood opposite to her chair upon the deck. But as soon as the major's
back was turned, she said to Bertram, "I think the barber's block wants to be new curled, doesn't
it? I declare the barber's man has forgotten to comb out it's whiskers." So that Bertram had
no ground for jealousy of the major.

Somewhere about this time, Mrs. Price deserted them at dinner. She was going to sit, she said,
with Mrs. Bangster, and Dr. Shaughnessey, and the judge. Mrs. Bangster had made a promise to
old Mr. Price in England to look after her; and, therefore, she thought it better to go back
to Mrs. Bangster before they reached Southampton. They were now past Gibraltar. So on that
day, Mrs. Price's usual chair at dinner was vacant, and Wilkinson, looking down the tables,
saw that room had been made for her next to Dr. Shaughnessey. And on her other side, sat Captain
M'Gramm, in despite of Mrs. Bangster's motherly care and of his own wife at home. On the following
morning, Mrs. Price and Captain M'Gramm were walking the deck together just as they had been
used to do on the other side of Suez.

And so things went on till the day before their arrival at Southampton. Mrs. Cox still kept
her seat next to Bertram, and opposite to Wilkinson, though no other lady remained to countenance
her. She and Bertram still walked the deck arm in arm; but their whisperings were not so low
as they had been, nor were their words so soft, nor, indeed, was the temper of the lady so
sweet. What if she should have thrown away all the advantages of the voyage! What if she had
fallen between two stools! She began to think that it would be better to close with one or
with the other--with the one despite his poverty, or with the other despite his head.

And now it was the evening of the last day. They had sighted the coast of Devonshire, and the
following morning would see them within the Southampton waters. Ladies had packed their luggage;
subscriptions had been made for the band; the captain's health had been drunk at the last dinner;
and the mail boxes were being piled between the decks.

"Well, it is nearly over," said Mrs. Cox, as she came upon deck after dinner, warmly cloaked.
"How cold we all are!"

"Yes; it is nearly over," answered Bertram. "What an odd life of itself one of these voyages
is! How intimate people are who will never see each other again!"

"Yes; that is the way, I suppose. Oh, Mr. Bertram!"

"Well, what would you have?"

"Ah, me! I hardly know. Fate has ever been against me, and I know that it will be so to the last."

"Is it not cold?" said Bertram, buttoning up a greatcoat as he spoke.

"Very cold! very cold!" said Mrs. Cox. "But there is something much colder than the weather--very
much colder."

"You are severe, Mrs. Cox."

"Yes. It is Mrs. Cox here. It was Annie when we were off Gibraltar. That comes of being near
home. But I knew that it would be so. I hate the very idea of home." And she put her handkerchief
to her eyes.

She had had her chance as far as Bertram was concerned, and had let it pass from her. He did
not renew his protestations; but in lieu of doing so, lit a cigar, and walked away into the
fore-part of the vessel. "After all, Arthur is right," said he to himself; "marriage is too
serious a thing to be arranged in a voyage from Alexandria to Southampton."

But luckily for Mrs. Cox, everybody did not think as he did. He had gone from her ruthlessly,
cruelly, falsely, with steps which sounded as though there were triumph in his escape, and
left her seated alone near the skylights. But she was not long alone. As she looked after him
along the deck, the head of Major Biffin appeared to her, emerging from the saloon stairs.
She said nothing to herself now about barber's blocks or uncurled whiskers.

"Well, Mrs. Cox," said the major, accosting her.

"Well, Major Biffin;" and the major thought that he saw in her eye some glimpse of the smile
as of old.

"We are very near home now, Mrs. Cox," said the major.

"Very near indeed," said Mrs. Cox. And then there was a slight pause, during which Major Biffin
took an opportunity of sitting down not very far from his companion.

"I hope you have enjoyed your voyage," said he.

"Which voyage?" she asked.

"Oh! your voyage home from Alexandria--your voyage since you made the acquaintance of Mr.--what's
his name, the parson's cousin?"

"Mr. What's-his-name, as you call him, is nothing to me, I can assure you, Major Biffin. His
real name, however, is Bertram. He has been very civil when some other people were not inclined
to be so, that is all."

"Is that all? The people here do say--"

"Then I tell you what, Major Biffin, I do not care one straw what the people say--not one straw.
You know whose fault it has been if I have been thrown with this stranger. Nobody knows it
as well. And mind this, Major Biffin, I shall always do as I like in such matters without reference
to you or to any one else. I am my own mistress."

"And do you mean to remain so?"

"Ask no questions, and then you'll be told no stories."

"That's civil."

"If you don't like it, you had better go, for there's more to follow of the same sort."

"You are very sharp to-night."

"Not a bit sharper than I shall be to-morrow."

"One is afraid even to speak to you now."

"Then one had better hold one's tongue."

Mrs. Cox was receiving her suitor rather sharply; but she probably knew his disposition. He
did not answer her immediately, but sat biting the top of his cane. "I'll tell you what it
is, Mrs. Cox," he said at last, "I don't like this kind of thing."

"Don't you, Mr. Biffin? And what kind of thing do you like?"

"I like you."

"Psha! Tell me something new, if you must tell me anything."

"Come, Annie; do be serious for a moment. There isn't much time left now, and I've come to
you in order that I may get a plain answer."

"If you want a plain answer, you'd better ask a plain question. I don't know what you mean."

"Will you have me? That's a plain question, or the deuce is in it."

"And what should I do with you?"

"Why, be Mrs. Biffin, of course."

"Ha! ha! ha! And it has come to that, has it? What was it you said to Dr. O'Shaughnessey when
we were off Point de Galle?"

"Well, what did I say?"

"I know what you said well enough. And so do you, too. If I served you right, I should never
speak to you again."

"A man doesn't like to be humbugged, you know, before a whole shipful of people," said the
major, defending himself.

"And a woman likes it just as little, Major Biffin; please to remember that."

"Well; I'm sure you've been down upon me long enough."

"Not a bit longer than you deserved. You told O'Shaughnessey, that it was all very well to
amuse yourself, going home. I hope you like your amusement now. I have liked mine very well,
I can assure you."

"I don't think so bad of you as to believe you care for that fellow."

"There are worse fellows than he is, Major Biffin. But there, I have had my revenge; and now
if you have anything to say, I'll give you an answer."

"I've only to say, Annie, that I love you better than any woman in the world." 

The only secrecy of counsel, the only lack of fearless frankness,
the only failure to make definite statement of the objects of the
war, lies with Germany and her Allies.

The issues of life and death hang upon these definitions.

 Before she did so, she had the major's offer in writing in her pocket;
and had shown it to Mrs. Price, with whom she was now altogether reconciled.

"I only wish, Minnie, that there was no Mrs. M'Gramm," said she.

"He wouldn't be the man for me at all, my dear; so don't let that fret you."

"There's as good fish in the sea as ever were caught yet; eh, Minnie?"

"Of course there are. Though of course you think there never was such a fish as Biffin."

"He'll do well enough for me, Minnie; and when you catch a bigger, and a better, I won't begrudge
him you."

That night Mrs. Cox took her evening modicum of creature-comforts sitting next to her lover,
the major; and our two friends were left alone by themselves. The news had soon spread about
the ship, and to those ladies who spoke to her on the subject, Mrs. Cox made no secret of the
fact. Men in this world catch their fish by various devices; and it is necessary that these
schemes should be much studied before a man can call himself a fisherman. It is the same with
women; and Mrs. Cox was an Izaak Walton among her own sex. Had she not tied her fly with skill,
and thrown her line with a steady hand, she would not have had her trout in her basket. There
was a certain amount of honour due to her for her skill, and she was not ashamed to accept it.

"Good-night, Mrs. Cox," Bertram said to her that evening, with a good-humoured tone; "I hear
that I am to congratulate you."

"Good-night," said she, giving him her hand. "And I'll say good-bye, too, for we shall all
be in such a flurry to-morrow morning. I'm sure you think I've done the right thing--don't
you? And, mind this, I shall hope to see you some day." And so saying, she gave him a kindly
grasp, and they parted. "Done right!" said Bertram; "yes, I suppose she has; right enough at
least as far as I am concerned. After all, what husband is so convenient as a barber's block?"

On the following morning they steamed up the Southampton river, and at nine o'clock they were
alongside the quay. All manner of people had come on board in boats, and the breakfast was
eaten in great confusion. But few of the ladies were to be seen. They had tea and rolls in
their own cabins, and did not appear till the last moment. Among these were Mrs. Cox and Mrs.
Price.

These ladies during their journey home had certainly not been woe-begone, either in personal
appearance or in manner. And who would have the heart to wish that they should be so? They
had been dressed as young ladies on board ship usually do dress, so that their widowhood had
been forgotten; and, but for their babies, their wifehood might have been forgotten also.

But now they were to be met by family friends--by friends who were thinking of nothing but
their bereavements. Old Mr. Price came to meet them on board, and Mrs. Cox's uncle; old gentlemen
with faces prepared for sadness, and young ladies with sympathetic handkerchiefs. How signally
surprised the sad old gentlemen and the sympathetic young ladies must have been!

Not a whit! For over them all was their King, George III., still with the Royal privilege of dismissal
for his Ministers, and resolutely, fiercely resolved not to grant Catholic emancipation. Pitt relieved
his conscience by a two-years' resignation, but he returned to Parliament without achieving
his pledge. For another thirty years the struggle went on. It is the Duke of Wellington himself
who has handed down to history the testimony that Catholic emancipation was only finally granted
in 1829 in order to save Ireland from a second rebellion.
 Their eyes were red with weeping, and the agonizing grief of domestic bereavement sat
chiselled on every feature. If you stood near enough, your heart would melt at the sound of
their sobs.

Alas! that forms so light, that creatures so young, should need to be shrouded in such vestments!
They were all crape, that dull, weeping, widow's crape, from the deck up to their shoulders.
There they stood, monuments of death, living tombs, whose only sign of life was in their tears.
There they stood, till they might fall, vanquished by the pangs of memory, into the arms of
their respective relations.

They were Mrs. Cox and Mrs. Price. Bertram and Wilkinson, as they passed them, lifted their
hats and bowed, and the two ladies observing them, returned their salutation with the coldest
propriety.

CHAPTER XI.

I COULD PUT A CODICIL.

On their journey up from Southampton, George and Arthur parted from each other. George went
on direct to London, whereas Arthur turned off from Basingstoke towards his own home.

"Take my advice now, if you never do again," said Bertram, as they parted; "make yourself master
of your own house, and as soon after as possible make her the mistress of it."

"That's easily said, old fellow," repeated the other.

"Make the attempt, at any rate. If I am anything of a prophet, it won't be in vain;" and so
they parted.

At Southampton they had learnt that there had been a partial crash in the government. The prime
minister had not absolutely walked forth, followed by all his satellites, as is the case when
a successful turn in the wheel gives the outs a full whip-hand over the ins, but it had become
necessary to throw overboard a brace or two of Jonahs, so that the ship might be lightened
to meet a coming storm; and among those so thrown over had been our unfortunate friend Sir
Henry Harcourt.

And this, as regards him, had hardly been the worst of it. We all know that bigwigs are never
dismissed. When it becomes necessary to get rid of them, they resign. Now resignation is clearly
a voluntary act, and it seemed that Sir Henry, having no wish that way, had not at first performed
this act of volition. His own particular friends in the cabinet, those to whom he had individually
attached himself, were gone; but, nevertheless, he made no sign; he was still ready to support
the government, and as the attorney-general was among those who had shaken the dust from their
feet and gone out, Sir Henry expected that he would, as a matter of course, walk into that
gentleman's shoes.

But another learned gentleman was appointed, and then at last Sir Henry knew that he must go.
He had resigned; but no resignation had ever appeared to have less of volition in it. And how
could it be otherwise? Political success was everything to him; and, alas! he had so played
his cards that it was necessary to him that that success should be immediate. He was not as
those are who, in losing power, lose a costly plaything, which they love indeed over well,
but the loss of which hurts only their pride. Place to him was everything; and feeling this,
he had committed that most grievous of political sins--he had endeavoured to hold his place
longer than he was wanted. Now, however, he was out. So much, in some sort of way, Bertram
had learnt before he left Southampton.

His first business in London was to call on Mr. Pritchett.

