Mr. Sponge then became still more at home. It was very soon 'my hounds,' and 'my horses,' and
'my whips'; and he wrote to Jawleyford, and Puffington, and Guano, and Lumpleg, and Washball,
and Spraggon, offering to make meets to suit their convenience, and even to mount them if required.
His Mogg was quite neglected in favour of Lucy; and it says much for the influence of female
charms that, before they had been engaged a fortnight, he, who had been a perfect oracle in
cab fares, would have been puzzled to tell the most ordinary fare on the most frequented route.
He had forgotten all about them. Nevertheless, Lucy and he went out hunting as often as they
could raise hounds, and when they had a good run and killed, he saluted her; and when they
didn't kill, why--he just did the same. He headed and tailed the stringing pack, drafted the
skirters and babblers (which he sent to Lord Scamperdale, with his compliments), and presently
had the uneven kennel in something like shape.

Nor was this the only way in which he made himself useful, for Nonsuch House being now supported
almost entirely by voluntary contributions--that is to say, by the gullibility of tradesmen--his
street and shop knowledge was valuable in determining who to 'do.' With the Post Office Directory
and Mr. Sponge at his elbow, Mr. Bottleends, the butler--'delirius tremendous,' as Bottleends
called it, having quite incapacitated Sir Harry--wrote off for champagne from this man, sherry
from that, turtle from a third, turbot from a fourth, tea from a fifth, truffles from a sixth,
wax-lights from one, sperm from another; and down came the things with such alacrity, such
thanks for the past and hopes for the future, as we poor devils of the untitled world are quite
unacquainted with. Nay, not content with giving him the goods, many of the poor demented creatures
actually paraded their folly at their doors in new deal packing-cases, flourishingly directed
'TO SIR HARRY SCATTERCASH, BART., NONSUCH HOUSE, &c. By Express Train.' In some cases they
even paid the carriage.

And here, in the midst of love, luxury, and fox-hunting, let us for a time leave our enterprising
friend, Mr. Sponge, while we take a look at a species of cruelty that some people call 'sport.'
For this purpose we will begin a fresh chapter.

CHAPTER LXVII

HOW THEY GOT UP THE 'GRAND ARISTOCRATIC STEEPLE-CHASE'

There is no saying what advantages railway communication may confer upon a country. But for
the Granddiddle Junction, ----shire never would have had a steeple-chase--an 'Aristocratic,'
at least--for it is observable that the more snobbish a thing is, the more certain they are
to call it aristocratic. When it is too bad for anything, they call it 'Grand.' Well, as we
said before, but for the Granddiddle Junction, ----shire would never have had a 'Grand Aristocratic
Steeple-Chase.' A few friends or farmers might have got up a quiet thing among themselves,
but it would never have seen a regular trade transaction, with its swell mob, sham captains,
and all the paraphernalia of odd laying, 'secret tips,' and market rigging. Who will deny the
benefit that must accrue to any locality by the infusion of all the loose fish of the kingdom?

Formerly the prize-fights were the perquisite of the publicans. They it was who arranged for
Shaggy Tom to pound Harry Billy's nob upon So-and-so's land, the preference being given to
the locality that subscribed the most money to the fight. Since the decline of 'the ring,'
steeple-chasing, and that still smaller grade of gambling--coursing, have come to their aid.
Nine-tenths of the steeple-chasing and coursing-matches are got up by inn-keepers, for the
good of their houses. Some of the town publicans, indeed, seem to think that the country was
just made for their matches to come off in, and scarcely condescend to ask the leave of the
landowners.

We saw an advertisement the other day, where a low publican, in a manufacturing town, assured
the subscribers to his coursing-club that he would take care to select open ground, with 'plenty
of stout hares,' as if all the estates in the neighbourhood were at his command. Another advertised
a steeple-chase in the centre of a good hunting country--'amateur and gentleman riders'--with
a half-crown ordinary at the end! Fancy the respectability of a steeple-chase, with a half-crown
ordinary at the end!

Our 'Aristocratic' was got up on the good-of-the-house principle. Whatever benefit the Granddiddle
Junction conferred upon the country at large, it had a very prejudicial effect upon the Old
Duke of Cumberland Hotel and Posting House, which it left, high and dry, at an angle sufficiently
near to be tantalized by the whirr and the whistle of the trains, and yet too far off to be
benefited by the parties they brought. This once well-accustomed hostelry was kept by one Mr.
Viney, a former butler in the Scattercash family, and who still retained the usual 'old and
faithful servant' entrée of Nonsuch House, having his beefsteak and bottle of wine in the steward's
room whenever he chose to call. I have waited long and patiently. Heaven has, after all, been kind
to me," said the Goat, and shook his horns and his beard, and made a start as if he were about
to spring upon the Lion.

The latter said to himself, "This animal looks like a Goat, but it does not talk like one. So
it is very likely some wicked spirit in this shape. Prudence often serves us better than valor,
so for the present I shall return to the wood," and he turned back.
The Goat rose up, and, advancing to the mouth of the cave, said,
"Will you come back tomorrow?"

"Never again," said the Lion.

"Do
you think I shall be able to see you, at least, in the wood to- morrow?"

"Neither
in the wood nor in this neighborhood any more," said the Lion, and
running to the forest, soon left it with his kindred.

Fortunately Mr. Viney was pretty warm; he had done pretty well; and having enjoyed the intimacy
of the great 'Jeames' of railway times, had got a hint not to engage the hotel beyond the opening
of the line. Consequently, he now had the great house for a mere nothing until such times as
the owner could convert it into that last refuge for deserted houses--an academy, or a 'young
ladies' seminary.' Mr. Viney now, having plenty of leisure, frequently drove his 'missis' (once
a lady's maid in a quality family) up to Nonsuch House, as well for the sake of the airing--for
the road was pleasant and picturesque--as to see if he could get the 'little trifle' Sir Harry
owed him for post-horses, bottles of soda-water, and such trifles as country gentlemen run
up scores for at their posting-houses--scores that seldom get smaller by standing. In these
excursions Mr. Viney made the acquaintance of Mr. Watchorn; and a huntsman being a character
with whom even the landlord of an inn--we beg pardon, hotel and posting-house--may associate
without degradation, Viney and Watchorn became intimate. Watchorn sympathized with Viney, and
never failed to take a glass in passing, either at exercise or out hunting, to deplore that
such a nice-looking house, so 'near the station, too,' should be ruined as an inn. It was after
a more than usual libation that Watchorn, trotting merrily along with the hounds, having accomplished
three blank days in succession, asked himself, as he looked upon the surrounding vale from
the rising ground of Hammercock Hill, with the cream-coloured station and the rose-coloured
hotel peeping through the trees, whether something might not be done to give the latter a lift.
At first he thought of a pigeon match--a sweepstake open to all England--fifty members say,
at two pound ten each, seven pigeons, seven sparrows, twenty-one yards rise, two ounces of
shot, and so on. But then, again, he thought there would be a difficulty in getting guns. A
coursing match--how would that do? Answer: 'No hares.' The farmers had made such an outcry
about the game, that the landowners had shot them all off, and now the farmers were grumbling
that they couldn't get a course.

'Dash my buttons!' exclaimed Watchorn; 'it would be the very thing for a steeple-chase! There's
old Puff's hounds, and old Scamp's hounds, and these hounds,' looking down on the ill-sorted
lot around him; 'and the deuce is in it if we couldn't give the thing such a start as would
bring down the lads of the "village," and a vast amount of good business might be done. I'm
dashed if it isn't the very country for a steeple-chase!' continued Watchorn, casting his eye
over Cloverly Park, round the enclosure of Langworth Grange, and up the rising ground of Lark
Lodge.

The more Watchorn thought of it, the more he was satisfied of its feasibility, and he trotted
over, the next day, to the Old Duke of Cumberland, to see his friend on the subject. Viney,
like most victuallers, was more given to games of skill--billiards, shuttlecock, skittles,
dominoes, and so on--than to the rude out-of-door chances of flood and field, and at first
he doubted his ability to grapple with the details; but on Mr. Watchorn's assurance that he
would keep him straight, he gave Mrs. Viney a key, desiring her to go into the inner cellar,
and bring out a bottle of the green seal. This was ninety-shilling sherry--very good stuff
to take; and, by the time they got into the second bottle, they had got into the middle of
the scheme too. Viney was cautious and thoughtful. He had a high opinion of Watchorn's sagacity,
and so long as Watchorn confined himself to weights, and stakes, and forfeits, and so on, he
was content to leave himself in the hands of the huntsman; but when Watchorn came to talk of
'stewards,' putting this person and that together, Viney's experience came in aid. Viney knew
a good deal. He had not stood twisting a napkin negligently before a plate-loaded sideboard
without picking up a good many waifs and strays in the shape of those ins and outs, those likings
and dislikings, those hatreds and jealousies, that foolish people let fall so freely before
servants, as if for all the world the servants were sideboards themselves; and he had kept
up his stock of service-gained knowledge by a liberal, though not a dignity-compromising intercourse--for
there is no greater aristocrat than your out-of-livery servant--among the upper servants of
all the families in the neighbourhood, so that he knew to a nicety who would pull together,
and who wouldn't, whose name it would not do to mention to this person, and who it would not
do to apply to before that.

Neither Watchorn nor Viney being sportsmen, they thought they had nothing to do but apply to
two friends who were; and after thinking over who hunted in couples, they were unfortunate
enough to select our Flat Hat friends, Fyle and Fossick. Fyle was indignant beyond measure
at being asked to be steward to a steeple-chase, and thrust the application into the fire;
while Fossick just wrote below, 'I'll see you hanged first,' and sent it back without putting
even a fresh head on the envelope. Nothing daunted, however, they returned to the charge, and
without troubling the reader with unnecessary detail, we think it will be generally admitted
that they at length made an excellent selection in Mr. Puffington, Guano, and Tom Washball.

Fortune favoured them also in getting a locality to run in, for Timothy Scourgefield, of Broom
Hill, whose farm commanded a good circular three miles of country, with every variety of obstacle,
having thrown up his lease for a thirty-per-cent reduction--a giving up that had been most
unhandsomely accepted by his landlord--Timothy was most anxious to pay him off by doing every
conceivable injury to the farm, than which nothing can be more promising than having a steeple-chase
run over it. Scourgefield, therefore, readily agreed to let Viney and Watchorn do whatever
they liked, on condition that he received entrance-money at the gate.

The name occupied their attention some time, for it did not begin as the 'Aristocratic.' The
'Great National,' the 'Grand Naval and Military,' the 'Sports-man,' the 'Talli-ho,' the 'Out-and-Outer,'
the 'Swell,' were all considered and canvassed, and its being called the 'Aristocratic' at
length turned upon whether they got Lord Scamperdale to subscribe or not. This was accomplished
by a deferential call by Mr. Viney upon Mr. Spraggon, with a little bill for three pound odd,
which he presented, with the most urgent request that Jack wouldn't think of it then--any time
that was most convenient to Mr. Spraggon--and then the introduction of the neatly-headed sheet-list.
It was lucky that Viney was so easily satisfied, for poor Jack had only thirty shillings, of
which he owed his washerwoman eight, and he was very glad to stuff Viney's bill into his stunner
jacket-pocket, and apply himself exclusively to the contemplated steeple-chase.

Like most of us, Jack had no objection to make a little money; and as he squinted his frightful
eyes inside out at the paper, he thought over what horses they had in the stable that were
like the thing; and then he sounded Viney as to whether he would put him one up for nothing,
if he could induce his lordship to send. This, of course, Viney readily assented to, and again
requesting Jack not to think of his little bill till it was perfectly convenient to him--a
favour that Jack was pretty sure to accord him--Mr. Viney took his departure, Jack undertaking
to write him the result. The next day's post brought Viney the document--unpaid, of course--with
a great 'Scamperdale' scrawled across the top; and forthwith it was decided that the steeple-chase
should be called the 'Grand Aristocratic.' Other names quickly followed, and it soon assumed
an importance. Advertisements appeared in all the sporting and would-be sporting papers, headed
with the imposing names of the stewards, secretary, and clerk of the course, Mr. Viney. The
'Grand Aristocratic Stakes,' of 20 sovs. each, half-forfeit, and £5 only if declared, &c. The
winner to give two dozen of champagne to the ordinary, and the second horse to save his stake. By
their side, too, laid a little lamb, and on a perch behind them a little white dove reposed
with her head under her wing.

One evening, when they were thus sitting comfortably together, there came a knock at the door as
if somebody wished to come in. "Make haste, Rose-Red," cried her Mother; "make haste and open
the door; perhaps there is some traveler outside who needs shelter." So Rose-Red went and drew
the bolt and opened the door, expecting to see some poor man outside, but instead, a great fat
Bear poked his black head in. Rose-Red shrieked out and ran back, the little lamb bleated, the dove
fluttered on her perch, and Snow-White hid herself behind her Mother's
bed.

The Bear, however, began to speak, and said: "Be not afraid, I will do you no harm; but I am half
frozen, and wish to come in and warm myself."

"Poor Bear!" cried the Mother; "come in and lie down before the fire; but take care you do
not burn your skin;" and then she continued: "Come here, Rose-Red and Snow-White, the Bear
will not harm you, he means honorably." So they both came back, and by degrees the lamb too
and the dove overcame their fears and welcomed the rough visitor.

"You children!" said the Bear, before he entered, "come and knock
the snow off my coat."

And they fetched their brooms and swept him clean.

Then he stretched himself before the fire and grumbled out his satisfaction;
and in a little while the children became familiar enough to play
tricks with the unwieldy animal.

 Few sportsmen will act as stewards
a second time; while the victim to the popular delusion of patronizing our 'national sports'
considers--like gentlemen who have served the office of sheriff, or church-warden--that once
in a lifetime is enough; hence, there is always the air of amateur actorship about them. There
is always something wanting or forgotten. Either they forget the ropes, or they forget the
scales, or they forget the weights, or they forget the bell, or--more commonly still--some
of the parties forget themselves. Farmers, too, are easily satisfied with the benefits of an
irresponsible mob careering over their farms, even though some of them are attired in the miscellaneous
garb of hunting and racing costume. Indeed, it is just this mixture of two sports that spoils
both; steeple-chasing being neither hunting nor racing. It has not the wild excitement of the
one, nor the accurate calculating qualities of the other. The very horses have a peculiar air
about them--neither hunters nor hacks, nor yet exactly race-horses. Some of them, doubtless,
are fine, good-looking, well-conditioned animals; but the majority are lean, lathy, sunken-eyed,
woe-begone, iron-marked, desperately-abused brutes, lacking all the lively energy that characterizes
the movements of the up-to-the-mark hunter. In the early days of steeple-chasing a popular
fiction existed that the horses were hunters; and grooms and fellows used to come nicking and
grinning up to masters of hounds at checks and critical times, requesting them to note that
they were out, in order to ask for certificates of the horses having been 'regularly hunted'--a
species of regularity than which nothing could be more irregular. That nuisance, thank goodness,
is abated. A steeple-chaser now generally stands on his own merits; a change for which sportsmen
may be thankful.

But to our story.

The whole country was in a commotion about this 'Aristocratic'. The unsophisticated looked
upon it as a grand réunion of the aristocracy; and smart bonnets and cloaks, and jackets and
parasols were ordered with the liberality incident to a distant view of Christmas. As Viney
sipped his sherry-cobler of an evening, he laughed at the idea of a son-of-a-day-labourer like
himself raising such a dust. Letters came pouring in to the clerk of the course from all quarters;
some asking about beds; some about breakfasts; some about stakes; some about stables; some
about this thing, some about that. Every room in the Old Duke of Cumberland was speedily bespoke.
Post-horses rose in price, and Dobbin and Smiler, and Jumper and Cappy, and Jessy and Tumbler
were jobbed from the neighbouring farmers, and converted for the occasion into posters. At
last came the great and important day--day big with the fate of thousands of pounds; for the
betting-list vermin had been plying their trade briskly throughout the kingdom, and all sorts
of rumours had been raised relative to the qualities and conditions of the horses.

Who doesn't know the chilling feel of an English spring, or rather of a day at the turn of
the year before there is any spring? Our gala-day was a perfect specimen of the order--a white
frost succeeded by a bright sun, with an east wind, warming one side of the face and starving
the other. It was neither a day for fishing, nor hunting, nor coursing, nor anything but farming.
The country, save where there were a few lingering patches of turnips, was all one dingy drab,
with abundant scalds on the undrained fallows. The grass was more like hemp than anything else.
The very rushes were yellow and sickly.

Long before midday the whole country was in commotion. The same sort of people commingled that
one would expect to see if there was a balloon to go up, and a man to go down, or be hung at
the same place. Fine ladies in all the colours of the rainbow; and swarthy, beady-eyed dames,
with their stalwart, big-calved, basket-carrying comrades; gentle young people from behind
the counter; Dandy Candy merchants from behind the hedge; rough-coated dandies with their silver-mounted
whips; and Shaggyford roughs, in their baggy, poacher-like coats, and formidable clubs; carriages
and four, and carriages and pairs; and gigs and dog-carts, and Whitechapels, and Newport Pagnels,
and long carts, and short carts, and donkey carts, converged from all quarters upon the point
of attraction at Broom Hill.

If Farmer Scourgefield had made a mob, he could not have got one that would be more likely
to do damage to his farm than this steeple-chase one. Nor was the assemblage confined to the
people of the country, for the Granddiddle Junction, by its connection with the great network
of railways, enabled all patrons of this truly national sport to sweep down upon the spot like
flocks of wolves; and train after train disgorged a generous mixture of sharps and flats, commingling
with coatless, baggy-breeched vagabonds, the emissaries most likely of the Peeping Toms and
Infallible Joes, if not the worthies themselves.

'Dear, but it's a noble sight!' exclaimed Viney to Watchorn as they sat on their horses, below
a rickety green-baize-covered scaffold, labelled, 'GRAND STAND; admission, Two-and-sixpence,'
raised against Scourgefield's stack-yard wall, eyeing the population pouring in from all parts.
'Dear, but it's a noble sight!' said he, shading the sun from his eyes, and endeavouring to
identify the different vehicles in the distance. 'Yonder's the 'bus comin' again,' said he,
looking towards the station, 'loaded like a market-gardener's turnip-waggon. That'll pay,'
added he, with a knowing leer at the landlord of the Hen Angel, Newington Butts. 'And who have
we here, with the four horses and sky-blue flunkeys? Jawleyford, as I live!' added he, answering
himself; adding, 'The beggar had better pay me what he owes.'

How great Mr. Viney was! Some people, who have never had anything to do with horses, think
it incumbent upon them, when they have, to sport top-boots, and accordingly, for the first
time in his life, Viney appears in a pair of remarkably hard, tight, country-made boots, above
which are a pair of baggy white cords, with the dirty finger-marks of the tailor still upon
them. He sports a single-breasted green cutaway coat, with basket-buttons, a black satin roll-collared
waistcoat, and a new white silk hat, that shines in the bright sun like a fish-kettle. His
blue-striped kerchief is secured by a butterfly brooch. Who ever saw an innkeeper that could
resist a brooch?

He is riding a miserable rat of a badly clipped, mouse-coloured pony that looks like a velocipede
under him.

His companion, Mr. Watchorn, is very great, and hardly condescends to know the country people
who claim his acquaintance as a huntsman. He is a Hotel Keeper--master of the Hen Angel, Newington
Butts. Enoch Wriggle stands beside them, dressed in the imposing style of a cockney sportsman.
He has been puffing 'Sir Danapalus (the Bart.)' in public, and taking all the odds he can get
against him in private. Watchorn knows that it is easier to make a horse lose than win. The
restless-looking, lynx-eyed caitiff, in the dirty green shawl, with his hands stuffed into
the front pockets of the brown tarriar coat, is their jockey, the renowned Captain Hangallows;
he answers to the name of Sam Slick in Mr. Spavin the horse-dealer's yard in Oxford Street,
when not in the country on similar excursions to the present. And now in the throng on the
principal line are two conspicuous horses--a piebald and a white--carrying Mr. Sponge and Lucy
Glitters. Lucy appears as she did on the frosty-day hunt, glowing with health and beauty, and
rather straining the seams of Lady Scattercash's habit with the additional embonpoint she has
acquired by early hours in the country. She has made Mr. Sponge a white silk jacket to ride
in, which he has on under his grey tarriar coat, and a cap of the same colour is in his hard
hat. He has discarded the gosling-green cords for cream-coloured leathers, and, to please Lucy,
has actually substituted a pair of rose-tinted tops for the 'hogany bouts'. Altogether he is
a great swell, and very like the bridegroom.

But hark--what a crash! The leaders of Sir Harry Scattercash's drag start at a blind fiddler's
dog stationed at the gate leading into the fields, a wheel catches the post, and in an instant
the sham captains are scattered about the road: Bouncey on his head, Seedeyhuck across the
wheelers, Quod on his back, and Sir Harry astride the gate. Meanwhile, the old fiddler, regardless
of the shouts of the men and the shrieks of the ladies, scrapes away with the appropriate tune
of 'The Devil among the Tailors!' A rush to the horses' heads arrests further mischief, the
dislodged captains are at length righted, the nerves of the ladies composed, and Sir Harry
once more essays to drive them up the hill to the stand. That feat being accomplished, then
came the unloading, and consternation, and huddling of the tight-laced occupants at the idea
of these female women coming amongst them, and the usual peeping and spying, and eyeing of
the 'creatures.' 'What impudence!' 'Well, I think!' ''Pon my word!' 'What next!'--exclamations
that were pretty well lost upon the fair objects of them amid the noise and flutter and confusion
of the scene. But hark again! What's up now?

'Hooray!' 'hooray!' 'h-o-o-o-ray!' 'Three cheers for the Squire! H-o-o-o-ray!' Old Puff as
we live! The 'amazin' instance of a pop'lar man' greeted by the Swillingford snobs. The old
frost-bitten dandy is flattered by the cheers, and bows condescendingly ere he alights from
the well-appointed mail phaeton. See how graciously the ladies receive him, as, having ascended
the stairs, he appears among them. 'A man is never too old to marry' is their maxim.

The cry is still, 'They come! they come!' See at a hand-gallop, with his bay pony in a white
lather, rides Pacey, grinning from ear to ear, with his red-backed betting-book peeping out
of the breast pocket of his brown cutaway. He is staring and gaping to see who is looking at him.

Pacey has made such a book as none but a wooden-headed boy like himself could make. He has
been surfeited with tips. Peeping Tom had advised him to back Daddy Longlegs; and, nullus error,
Sneaking Joe has counselled him that the 'Baronet' will be 'California without cholera, and
gold without danger'; while Jemmy something, the jockey, who advertises that his 'tongue is
not for falsehood framed,' though we should think it was framed for nothing else, has urged
him to back Parvo to half the amount of the national debt.

Altogether, Pacey has made such a mess that he cannot possibly win, and may lose almost any
sum from a thousand pounds down to a hundred and eighty. Mr. Sponge has got well on with him,
through the medium of Jack Spraggon.

Pacey is now going to what he calls 'compare'--see that he has got his bets booked right; and,
throwing his right leg over his cob's neck, he blobs on to the ground; and, leaving the pony
to take care of itself, disappears in the crowd.

What a hubbub! what roarings, and shoutings, and recognizings! 'Bless my heart! who'd have
thought of seeing you?' and, 'By jingo! what's sent you here?'

'My dear Waffles,' cries Jawleyford, rushing up to our Laverick Wells friend (who is looking
very debauched), 'I'm overjoyed to see you. Do come upstairs and see Mrs. Jawleyford and the
dear girls. It was only last night we were talking about you.' And so Jawleyford hurries Mr.
Waffles off, just as Waffles is in extremis about his horse.

