 The friends of my youth have disappeared like
the flowers which have passed away with the spring, and for whose places you seek in vain,
like the dew which sparkles for a moment on the flowers and is gone."

The next day James, feeling that his end was near, felt it his duty and delight, though weak
in body, to continue his advice to his daughter.

"I have seen the world," said he, "as well as other people, in the day when I accompanied the
young Count on his travels. If there was anything in the large cities superb or magnificent,
I went there. I spent whole weeks in pleasure. If there was a brilliant assembly or a lively
conversation, I saw and heard as well as my young master. I shared in the most exquisite meals,
and of the scarcest wines, and always had more than I wished for. But all these worldly pleasures
left me with an empty heart. I assure you solemnly, my dear Mary, that a few moments of peaceful
thought and fervent prayer in our arbour in Eichbourg, or under this roof that covers us now,
gave me more real joy than all the vain pleasures of the world. Seek then your happiness in
a life of service of our blessed Saviour. You will find Him and He will bless you.

"Too well you know, my child, that I have not been without misfortune in this life. When I
lost your dear mother my heart was for a long time like a dry and barren garden, whose soil,
burned by the sun, cracks open, and seems to sigh for rain. In this way I languished, thirsting
for consolation, and at last I found it in the Lord. Oh, my dear daughter, there will be days
in your life when your heart also will be like dry and barren ground; but let it not dishearten
you. As the thirsty ground calls not for rain in vain, but God sends the refreshing showers,
so if you seek your consolation from God, He will refresh your heart as the sweet rain refreshes
the thirsty parched earth. Let your confidence in your heavenly Father be unshaken. Firmly
believe that there is nothing He will not do for those He loves. Sometimes He may lead us by
paths of grief, but be sure that these paths lead to unmingled happiness. Do you recollect,
my good Mary, all the grief you felt when, after our painful walk, I fell down with fatigue
in the middle of the road? Suddenly, like a thing falling upon me from without, came--Beer.
It was being poured down my throat by my cousin's man, and I recollect thinking that he must have
used the same can with which he filled the lamps. How he got there I cannot pretend to tell.

"What
news from the park?" said I.

"Eh!" said my cousin's man.

"What news from the Park?" I said.

"Garn!
'oo yer getting at?" said my cousin's man. "Aint yer just been there?"
(The italics are his own.) "People seem fair silly abart the Pawk.

"But you will always find, my dear Mary, that in the troubles of life there are proofs of the
Divine goodness, to those who will look for them. If the liberal hand of the Lord has scattered
with flowers the mountains and valleys, forests and river-banks, and even the muddy marshes,
to give us everywhere the opportunity of admiring the tenderness and beauty of nature, He has
also imprinted on all the events of our life the evident traces of His great wisdom, and all
His passionate love to man in order that the attentive man may learn by them to love and adore Him.

"In all our life, we have never had to suffer more than when you were accused of a theft, when
you were chained and likely to be doomed to death. We were weeping together in prison and lamenting
our affliction. Well, even this trial has been a source of great good to us. Looking back upon
it we can see that, when the young Countess favoured you above other young girls, honoured
you by admitting you to her company, made you a present of a beautiful gown, and expressed
a wish that you should always be near her, there was a danger that these great advantages of
life would render you vain and trifling, fond of the things of this world, and apt to forget
God. Doubtless the Lord consulted our highest interests when He changed our condition, and
banished us from happiness into despair. In the misery of our state, in prison and in poverty
of circumstances, we have been enabled to live nearer to Him. He has brought us far from the
corrupt influences of large towns into this lonely country where He has prepared for us a better
home. Here you are like a flower flourishing in solitude, where, if it has not the admiration
of man, it has nothing to fear from his hand.

"The good and faithful God who has done all these things for us will give a still more happy
turn to your life. For I firmly believe that He has answered my prayer, that He will one day
show to the world your innocence. When that time shall come I shall be no more, but I can die
in peace without seeing it, for I am convinced of your innocence. Yes, my daughter, the pain
which you have suffered will yet be the means of leading you to much happiness on earth, though
this kind of happiness is the least, and you will see that God's great design in afflicting
us was to sanctify our hearts, and to prepare us for that home to which we can arrive only
through tribulation and suffering.

"Believing this, let not your heart be troubled that you are in misfortune. Believe firmly
that God's tenderness watches over you, that His care will be sufficient for you in whatever
place He chooses to take you. In whatever painful situation you may be placed, say, 'It is
the best place for me. Notwithstanding all that, I am safe, for He has brought me here.'"

CHAPTER XI.

MARY'S GREAT LOSS.

When at last Mary could no longer hide from herself the seriousness of her father's illness,
she went to the minister of the parish in which Pine Cottage was situated and asked him to
come and visit him. The minister, who was a kind-hearted and godly man, gladly availed himself
of the opportunity. On Saturday afternoon you may go to the Armenian mass at S. Biagio or S. Gregorio
Illuminatore: it begins towards 4 o clock. On Easter-Sunday the Pope sings solemn mass at S.
Peter's, at about 9 o'clock. He afterwards venerates the relics, and gives His solemn benediction.
 After a little while, he called her in again,
and said--

"My dear child, I have settled all my worldly affairs, and am now ready to depart and be with
Christ."

Mary was deeply distressed, and had great difficulty in keeping back her tears, for she saw
that the end was rapidly approaching. But out of consideration for her father, and after a
great effort, she recovered herself, and remained calm.

The rest of the day was spent by James in silent prayer, and next day he received the Lord's
Supper at the hands of the minister, by partaking of the bread and wine which are the symbols
of the body and blood of Christ. Faith in the power of God, love to Christ who had redeemed
him, and hope of eternal life, had made his venerable countenance radiant with happiness.

Mary remained on her knees beside his bed, weeping and praying. The farmer and his wife and
their household looked on in wonder at the rapture of the aged saint, and tears of sympathy
were in every eye because of Mary's grief.

It gave the old man pleasure to have Mary read to him in her sweet and clear voice. During
the latter part of his illness he desired to hear nothing else than the last words and prayer
of Jesus. One night, after all the household had gone to bed, Mary was sitting beside her father.
The moon was shining so brightly into the room that the light of the candle was scarcely seen.

"Mary," said the dying man, "read me once again that beautiful prayer of our Saviour."

Mary began to read. "Now," said the old man, "give me the book." Mary gave him the book, and
carried the light nearer to him. "This will be the last prayer," said her father, "that I shall
make for you," as he marked the passage with his finger, then in a trembling voice he uttered
the following prayer: "O Father, I have not long to remain in this world. I am going--I dare
hope it--I am going to Thee, my heavenly Father. Oh, preserve this my child from sin, for Thy
Name's sake. While I have lived on the earth, I have endeavoured in Thy name to preserve her
from it. But, O Lord, I am now going to Thee. I do not ask Thee to take her to Thyself, but
only to preserve her from harm. Let Thy holy truth preserve her. Thy word is truth. Grant,
O heavenly Father, that the child whom Thou hast given me may at last be admitted to the place
where I hope to go. Through Jesus Christ my Saviour. Amen."

Mary repeated, as well as her sobs would allow her, her father's Amen. "Yes," continued the
old man, "yes, my daughter, in the kingdom which Jesus had from the beginning of the world,
we shall see Him, and we shall see each other." He again lay down on his pillow to rest a little.
His hands continued to hold the New Testament, which he had bought with his first money saved
from the purchase of food after he left Eichbourg.

"Dear daughter," he said, some minutes afterwards, "I am grateful for all the affection and
tenderness which you have shown me since my illness commenced. Trust in your heavenly Father,
Mary, and you will receive of Him your reward. Poor and forsaken as I am, I can give you nothing,
when I leave you, but my blessing and this book. Live in the ways of righteousness, and this
blessing will not be without effect. The blessing of a father with the confidence of the Lord
is better for a virtuous child than the richest inheritance. This book, which I wish you to
take in remembrance of your father, cost me, it is true, but a few shillings, but if it be
faithfully read and its precepts put in practice, I shall have left you the richest treasure.
If I had left you as many pieces of gold as the spring produces leaves and flowers, with all
that money you could not buy anything so valuable as this book. It is the Word of God. Read
it every day, no matter how much work presses upon you; read at least one passage. Preserve
it and meditate upon it in your heart during the day."

About three o'clock the next morning James said, in a faint voice, "I feel very ill. Open the
window a little." Mary opened it. The moon had disappeared, but the sky was brilliant with
stars, and presented a magnificent sight.

"See how beautiful the sky is!" said the dying man. "What are the flowers of earth whose beauty
I have so often admired compared with these stars, whose glory suffers no fading? It is there
I am going. What joy! Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly."

With these words James fell back upon his pillow, and passed peacefully away. Mary had never
seen any one die before, and she thought her father had only fainted. In her fright she awoke
all the family. They ran to her father's bed, and there she heard them say to each other that
he was dead. Abandoning herself to her grief, she threw herself upon her father's body, embraced
it, and wept passionately. 

Two hosts are consecrated, one of which is received by the celebrant, and the other destined
for the following day is put into a chalice, which the deacon covers with a paten and palla
or linen cloth, as the dead body of Christ was wrapped in "fine linen"[64]. Mark XV, 46. At the
beginning of the canon twelve lighted torches are brought in by bussolanti; and after the elevation
two masters of ceremonies distribute among the cardinals and others candles carried by clerks
of the chapel, in preparation for the procession. Oh, let me die the death of the righteous. My only consolation now is
that I shall one day enter upon the happiness and everlasting life of heaven."

During this heart-rending scene the farmer's family had been much affected. At last they prevailed
upon Mary to lie down and rest, hoping that sleep would ease her grief. During the following
day nothing would induce her to leave her father's body. Before the coffin lid was nailed down,
Mary took one more look at her father. "Alas," said she, "it is the last time that I shall
ever look upon your dear face! How beautiful it was when you smiled, and it shone with the
glory into which you were so shortly to enter. Farewell, farewell, my father," said she, sobbing
aloud, "may your body rest peacefully in the earth now, while angels of God are, as I hope,
bearing your soul to eternal rest."

When the funeral took place, Mary, dressed in mourning which one of the girls of the village
had kindly given her, followed close to the body of her father. She was as pale as death, and
every one pitied the poor girl who now was without a relative in the world. As Mary's father
was a stranger at Erlenbrunn, they dug a grave for him in a corner of the cemetery beside the
wall. Two large pine trees shaded the humble grave. The minister who had attended James during
his illness spoke of James's patience and of the resignation with which he had borne all his
misfortunes, and the good example he had set for those who knew him. With tender words he consoled
Mary, who was overwhelmed with grief. In the name of her father, the minister thanked the farmer
and his wife for all their kindness to Mary and her father. He begged of them to be father
and mother to her who had no longer any parents.

CHAPTER XII.

CHANGES AT PINE FARM.

After her father's death, Mary was no longer the bright happy girl she had been before. Even
her favourite flowers seemed to have lost all their beauty, and the pine trees near the farm
looked as though they were clothed in mourning. From time to time she attended the church at
Erlenbrunn; and when here she never failed to visit her father's grave. On every opportunity
she went to this sacred spot to weep for her departed parent, and she never left the grave
without having made fresh resolutions to ignore the pleasures of the world, and to live only
to God. As time went on her grief gradually moderated, but she soon had new trials to undergo.

Great changes took place in Pine Farm. The good farmer had given the farm to his only son,
an amiable, good-tempered young man, but unhappy in his choice of a wife, whom he had married
a short time before. She was a handsome woman, and possessed of considerable means; but she
was vain to a degree, and cared for nothing but money. Pride and greed had gradually imprinted
on her features an expression of harshness so striking that, with all her beauty, her looks
were repellent. She was violently opposed to religion, and was thus without any restraint on
her conduct. By every means in her power she sought to make the lives of her husband's parents
miserable. If she knew that anything would give them pleasure, she delighted in doing the contrary,
and when she gave them the food which was their due, according to the contract they had made
with their son, it was always with a bad grace, and in a grudging spirit.

The good old man and his wife lived the greater part of their time in a little back room, seldom
appearing outside. As for their son, he led a miserable life; for his wife overwhelmed him
with constant abuse, and was constantly reminding him of the money she had brought him. Being
of a peaceable disposition, and averse to quarrelling and disputing, he bore his sufferings
in silence. His wife would never quietly allow him to visit his parents, for fear, as she said,
he would give them something secretly. In the evening, after he had finished his work, he used
to try to find an opportunity to visit them, when he would complain to them of his hard lot.

"Well," said his father, "so it is. You suffered yourself to be dazzled by the thought of her
gold, and to be fascinated by her good looks. I yielded too easily to your wishes, and thus
we are punished. We should have taken the advice of old James, who was an experienced man and
never approved of this match when it was talked of. I well remember every word he said on the
subject, and I have thought of it many a time. Do you remember," said he to his wife, "our
having said that ten thousand florins make a handsome sum. 'A handsome sum!' said James, 'no;
for the flowers you see in your garden are a thousand times more beautiful. Perhaps you mean
to say it is a large and heavy sum. I will acknowledge that. He must have good shoulders to
bear it without being bowed down to the earth, and without becoming a poor wretch, unable to
lift his head to heaven. Why then do you wish for so much money? You have never wanted anything;
you have always had more than sufficient. Believe me, too much money produces pride. Rain is
a useful and necessary thing, but when too much falls there is danger of it destroying the
most healthy plants of the garden.'

"These were exactly the old friend's words we have lost," said the farmer, "and I think I still
hear him. And you, my son, once said to him of your wife, 'She has a charming person, and is
beautiful and fresh as a rose.' 'Flowers,' answered James, 'have not beauty only; they are
good and pretty at the same time. They make so many rich presents. The bee sucks in pure wax
and delicious honey. Without piety, a beautiful face is merely a rose upon paper, a miserable
trifle without life or perfume. It produces neither wax nor honey.' Such were the reflections
that James frankly made before us. We would not listen to him--now we know how to appreciate
his advice. That which appeared then to us so great a happiness is now to us the height of
misfortune. May God give us grace to bear our misfortunes with patience!" Thus the old couple
and their son used to talk together.

Poor Mary had much to suffer also. The back room which she and her father had occupied was
given up to the old couple, and, although there were two empty rooms in the farmhouse, the
young farmer's wife, who disliked Mary, gave her the most miserable apartment in the house;
beside which, she ill-treated her in every possible way, and loaded her with abuse and fault-finding
from morning to night. According to her, Mary did not work enough and did not know how to do
anything as it ought to be done. In short, she made it very plain to the poor orphan that she
was despised and considered troublesome.

The old man and his wife were keenly conscious of the miserable life that Mary led, but they
were not in a position to interfere. They had enough to do with their own griefs.

Mary thought often of going away from Pine Farm, but where to go was the question. After some
consideration she asked the minister's advice. "My dear Mary," said the old minister, "it is
impossible for you to think of remaining longer at Pine Farm. They expect you to do more than
a strong man could accomplish. Still, I do not advise you to leave immediately. Although your
father gave you an excellent education, and taught you all that it was necessary for a village
housekeeper to know, my advice would be to remain where you are for the present; to work as
faithfully as you can, and to wait patiently until the Lord delivers you from your present
hard circumstances. I will endeavour to get you a place in an honest Christian family. Have
confidence in God; pray constantly, bear with this trial, and God will arrange all." Mary thanked
the good old minister and promised to follow his advice.

Mary's favourite place of meditation was her father's tomb, where she had planted a rose tree.
"Alas," said she, "if I could remain here always, I would water you with my tears!" The rose
tree was already green, and the buds began to open their purple cups. "My father was right,"
said Mary, "when he compared human life to the rose tree. It offers nothing but thorns; but
wait a little and the season will come when it shall be decked anew in foliage and robed in
the most beautiful flowers. For me, this is now the time of thorns; but God help me not to
be cast down! I believe your word, best of fathers. Perhaps I may see in my life the truth
of your favourite maxim--'Patience produces roses.'" Thus poor Mary consoled herself in her
distress.

    "Thou art, O Lord, my only trust,
    When friends are mingled with the dust,
      And all my loves are gone.
    When earth has nothing to bestow,
    And every flower is dead below,
      I look to Thee alone."

CHAPTER XIII. 

My feelings towards the Wenuses were, incredible as it may seem, purely
Platonic.

I recognised their transcendental attractions, but had no desire to succumb to them. Strange
as it may seem, the man who succumbs rarely if ever is victorious in the long run. To disguise
my sex and identity--for it was a priori almost impossible that the inhabitants of Wenus had
never heard of Pozzuoli--would guard me from the jellifying Mash-Glance
of the Wenuses.

Arrayed in feminine garb I could remain immune to their malignant influences.

With me, to think is to act; so I hastily ran upstairs, shaved off
my moustache, donned my wife's bicycle-skirt, threw her sortie de
bal round my shoulders, borrowed the cook's Sunday bonnet from the
servants' bedroom, and hastened back to my post of observation at
the scullery door. Taking
from a cupboard the beautiful basket which had been the first cause of all her unhappiness,
she filled it with choice flowers of all colours, artistically interspersed with fresh green
leaves, and carried it to Erlenbrunn before the hour of divine service, and laid it on her
father's tomb, watering it at the same time with tears that could not be repressed.

"Oh, best and dearest of fathers," said she, "you have strewed with flowers the path of life
for me. Let me at least ornament your grave with them."

Mary left the basket on the grave, and went back to the misery of Pine Farm. She had no fear
that any one would dare to steal either the basket or the flowers. Many of the country people
who saw her offering were moved to tears, and, blessing the old gardener's pious daughter,
they prayed for her prosperity.

The next day the labourers at the farm were busy taking in the hay from a large meadow just
beyond the forest. The farmer's wife had a large piece of fine linen spread out on the grass
a few steps from the house, and in the evening this was found to have disappeared. Unfortunately
the young farmer's wife had heard the story of Mary and the ring from her husband, to whom
it had been told by his father and mother. Instantly then she connected Mary with the disappearance
of the linen, and saw in the circumstance a means of venting her spite upon the girl whom she
had always disliked.

When Mary was returning from her work in the evening with a rake on her shoulder and a pitcher
in her hand, along with the other servants, this passionate woman came out of the kitchen and
met her with a torrent of abuse, and ordered her to give up the linen immediately. At first
Mary was too stunned to reply, but when she understood the charge, she answered meekly that
it was impossible she could have taken the linen, as she had passed the whole day in the hay-field
with the other servants; that a stranger might easily have taken advantage of a moment when
there was no one in the kitchen to commit the theft. This conjecture turned out to be the true
one, but the farmer's wife was not to be turned from her conviction.

"Thief," she cried coarsely, "do you think I am ignorant of the theft of the ring, and what
difficulty you had to escape the executioner's sword? Begone as soon as possible. There is
no room in my house for creatures like you."

