     The arguments advanced in this tract are practically repetitions of
     those already given in previous pieces. Swift laid much stress on
     the people buying and wearing goods made in Ireland, since in that
     way the money would remain in the country. In this little tract he
     winds up with a special appeal to the women of Ireland.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The present text is based on that of the quarto edition (vol.
     viii.) of 1765, and compared with Faulkner's of 1772.

     [T. S.]

A PROPOSAL THAT ALL THE LADIES AND WOMEN OF IRELAND SHOULD APPEAR CONSTANTLY IN IRISH MANUFACTURES.

There was a treatise written about nine years ago, to persuade the people of Ireland to wear
their own manufactures.[119] This treatise was allowed to have not one syllable in it of party
or disaffection; but was wholly founded upon the growing poverty of the nation, occasioned
by the utter want of trade in every branch, except that ruinous importation of all foreign
extravagancies from other countries. This treatise was presented, by the grand jury of the
city and county of Dublin, as a scandalous, seditious, and factious pamphlet. I forget who
was the foreman of the city grand jury; but the foreman for the county was one Doctor Seal,
register to the Archbishop of Dublin, wherein he differed much from the sentiments of his lord.[120]
The printer[121] was tried before the late Mr. Whitshed, that famous Lord chief-justice; who,
on the bench, laying his hand on his heart, declared, upon his salvation, that the author was
a Jacobite, and had a design to beget a quarrel between the two nations.[122] In the midst
of this prosecution, about fifteen hundred weavers were forced to beg their bread, and had
a general contribution made for their relief, which just served to make them drunk for a week;
and then they were forced to turn rogues, or strolling beggars, or to leave the kingdom. 

He accordingly turned his large light eyes from his plate for a moment, and with a mouth still
filled with a leg and wing of a capercailzie, enquired--

"What do you think of Alexander the Great, madam?"

This was too much.

Even her rage disappeared, and she burst into a loud laugh at the serious face of the querist.

"I
never think of Alexander the Great at all," she said. "I only recollect, that when I was reading
his history, I could hardly make out whether he was most of a fool or a madman."

Ericson swallowed the leg and the wing of the capercailzie without any further mastication, and
launched out in a torrent of admiration of the most prodigious courage the world had ever seen.

"If
he had been as prodigiously wise," replied Christina, "as he was prodigiously courageous,
he would have learned to govern himself before he attempted to govern the world."

Ericson blushed from chin to forehead with vexation, and answered
in an offended tone--

"How can a woman enter into the fever of noble
thoughts that impels a brave man to rush into the midst of dangers,
and leads him to despise life and all its petty enjoyments to gain
undying fame?"

"No, indeed," she replied, "I have no fever, and have
no sympathy with destroyers. Oh, if I wished for fame, I should try
to gain it by gathering round me the blessings of all who saw me!
Yes, father," she went on, paying no regard to the signs and winks
of the agonized Count Gyllenborg, "I would rather that countless thousands
should live to bless me, than that they should die in heaping curses
on my name!

But, since I am determined to take care that the author of this paper shall not be discovered
(following herein the most prudent practice of the Drapier,) I will venture to affirm, that
the three seasons wherein our corn hath miscarried, did no more contribute to our present misery,
than one spoonful of water thrown upon a rat already drowned would contribute to his death;
and that the present plentiful harvest, although it should be followed by a dozen ensuing,
would no more restore us, than it would the rat aforesaid to put him near the fire, which might
indeed warm his fur coat, but never bring him back to life.

The short of the matter is this: The distresses of the kingdom are operating more and more
every day, by very large degrees, and so have been doing for above a dozen years past.

If you demand from whence these distresses have arisen, I desire to ask the following question:

If two-thirds of any kingdom's revenue be exported to another country, without one farthing
of value in return; and if the said kingdom be forbidden the most profitable branches of trade
wherein to employ the other third, and only allowed to traffic in importing those commodities
which are most ruinous to itself[127]; how shall that kingdom stand?

If this question were formed into the first proposition of an hypothetical syllogism, I defy
the man born in Ireland, who is now in the fairest way of getting a collectorship, or a cornet's
post, to give a good reason for denying it.

Let me put another case. Suppose a gentleman's estate of two hundred pounds a year should sink
to one hundred, by some accident, whether by an earthquake, or inundation, it matters not:
and suppose the said gentleman utterly hopeless and unqualified ever to retrieve the loss;
how is he otherwise to proceed in his future economy, than by reducing it on every article
to one half less, unless he will be content to fly his country, or rot in jail? This is a representation
of Ireland's condition; only with one fault, that it is a little too favourable. Neither am
I able to propose a full remedy for this, that shall ever be granted, but only a small prolongation
of life, until God shall miraculously dispose the hearts of our neighbours, our kinsmen, our
fellow-protestants, fellow-subjects, and fellow rational creatures, to permit us to starve
without running further in debt. I am informed that our national debt (and God knows how we
wretches came by that fashionable thing a national debt) is about two hundred and fifty thousand
pounds; which is at least one-third of the whole kingdom's rents, after our absentees and other
foreign drains are paid, and about fifty thousand pounds more than all the cash.

It seems there are several schemes for raising a fund to pay the interest of this formidable
sum (not the principal, for this is allowed impossible). The necessity of raising such a fund,
is strongly and regularly pleaded, from the late deficiencies in the duties and customs. And
is it the fault of Ireland that these funds are deficient? If they depend on trade, can it
possibly be otherwise, while we have neither liberty to trade, nor money to trade with; neither
hands to work, nor business to employ them, if we had? Our diseases are visible enough both
in their causes and effects; and the cures are well known, but impossible to be applied.

If my steward comes and tells me, that my rents are sunk so low, that they are very little
more than sufficient to pay my servants their wages; have I any other course left than to cashier
four in six of my rascally footmen, and a number of other varlets in my family, of whose insolence
the whole neighbourhood complains? And I should think it extremely severe in any law, to force
me to maintain a household of fifty servants, and fix their wages, before I had offered my
rent-roll upon oath to the legislators.

To return from digressing: I am told one scheme for raising a fund to pay the interest of our
national debt, is, by a further duty of forty shillings a tun upon wine. Some gentlemen would
carry this matter much further, by raising it to twelve pounds; which, in a manner, would amount
to a prohibition: thus weakly arguing from the practice of England.

I have often taken notice, both in print and in discourse, that there is no topic so fallacious,
either in talk or in writing, as to argue how we ought to act in Ireland, from the example
of England, Holland, France, or any other country, whose inhabitants are allowed the common
rights and liberties of humankind. I could undertake to name six or seven of the most uncontrolled
maxims in government, which are utterly false in this kingdom.

As to the additional duty on wine, I think any person may deliver his opinion upon it, until
it shall have passed into a law; and till then, I declare mine to be positively against it.

First, Because there is no nation yet known, in either hemisphere, where the people of all
conditions are more in want of some cordial to keep up their spirits, than in this of ours.
I am not in jest; and if the fact will not be allowed me, I shall not argue it.

Secondly, It is too well and generally known, that this tax of forty shillings additional on
every tun of wine, (which will be double, at least, to the home consumer) will increase equally
every new session of Parliament, until, perhaps, it comes to twelve pounds.

Thirdly, Because, as the merchants inform me, and as I have known many the like instances in
England, this additional tax will more probably lessen this branch of the revenue, than increase
it. And therefore Sir John Stanley, a commissioner of the customs in England, used to say,
that the House of Commons were generally mistaken in matters of trade, by an erroneous opinion
that two and two make four. Thus, if you should lay an additional duty of one penny a pound
on raisins or sugar, the revenue, instead of rising, would certainly sink; and the consequence
would only be, to lessen the number of plum-puddings, and ruin the confectioner.

Fourthly, I am likewise assured by merchants, that upon this additional forty shillings, the
French will at least equally raise their duties upon all commodities we export thither.

Fifthly, If an original extract of the exports and imports be true, we have been gainers, upon
the balance, by our trade with France, for several years past; and, although our gain amounts
to no great sum, we ought to be satisfied, since we are no losers, with the only consolation
we are capable of receiving.

Lastly, The worst consequence is behind. If we raise the duty on wine to a considerable height,
we lose the only hold we have of keeping among us the few gentlemen of any tolerable estates.
I am confident there is hardly a gentleman of eight hundred pounds a year and upwards, in this
kingdom, who would balance half an hour to consider whether he should live here or in England,
if a family could be as cheaply maintained in the one as the other. As to eatables, they are
as cheap in many fine counties of England, as in some very indifferent ones here; or, if there
be any difference, that vein of thrift and prudence in economy, which passes there without
reproach, (and chiefly in London itself,) would amply make up the difference. His numerous passages
of this kind are for the most part extremely unintelligible; and when we have unraveled the
several coatings, we too often find the ribs of the mummy are not human. We think it right to object,
in this place, to an affectation in phraseology offensive to those who think seriously of breaking
the third commandment--he scarcely speaks of mountains without taking
the sacred name in vain; there is likewise a constant repetition of
expressions of very doubtful meaning in the first use, for the most
part quite devoid of meaning in their application.

One of these is "palpitating." Light is "palpitating," darkness is "palpitating"--every conceivable
thing is "palpitating."


I never have discoursed with any reasonable man upon this subject, who did not allow that there
was no remedy left us, but to lessen the importation of all unnecessary commodities as much
as it was possible; and likewise either to persuade our absentees to spend their money at home,
which is impossible; or tax them at five shillings in the pound during their absence, with
such allowances, upon necessary occasions, as it shall be thought convenient: or, by permitting
us a free trade, which is denied to no other nation upon earth. The three last methods are
treated by Mr. Prior, in his most useful treatise, added to his list of absentees.[128]

It is to gratify the vanity, and pride, and luxury of the women, and of the young fops who
admire them, that we owe this insupportable grievance, of bringing in the instruments of our
ruin. There is annually brought over to this kingdom near ninety thousand pounds worth of silk,
whereof the greater part is manufactured. Thirty thousand pounds more is expended in muslin,
holland, cambric, and calico. What the price of lace amounts to, is not easy to be collected
from the custom-house book, being a kind of goods that takes up little room, and is easily
run; but, considering the prodigious price of a woman's head-dress, at ten, twelve, twenty
pounds a yard, must be very great. The tea, rated at seven shillings per pound, comes to near
twelve thousand pounds; but, considering it as the common luxury of every chambermaid, sempstress,
and tradesman's wife, both in town and country, however they come by it, must needs cost the
kingdom double that sum. Coffee is somewhere above seven thousand pounds. I have seen no account
of the chocolate, and some other Indian or American goods. The drapery imported is about four-and-twenty
thousand pounds. The whole amounts (with one or two other particulars) to one hundred and fifty
thousand pounds. The lavishing of all which money is just as prudent and necessary, as to see
a man in an embroidered coat, begging out of Newgate in an old shoe.

I allow that the thrown and raw silk is less pernicious, because we have some share in the
manufacture: but we are not now in circumstances to trifle. It costs us above forty thousand
pounds a-year; and if the ladies, till better times, will not be content to go in their own
country shifts, I wish they may go in rags.

Let them vie with each other in the fineness of their native linen: their beauty and gentleness
will as well appear, as if they were covered over with diamonds and brocade.

I believe no man is so weak, as to hope or expect that such a reformation can be brought about
by a law. "Colour is a secondary truth, therefore less important than form." "He, therefore, who
has neglected a truth of form for a truth of colour, has neglected a greater truth for a less
one." It is true with regard to any individual object--but we doubt if it be always so in picture.
The character of the picture may not at all depend upon form--nay, it is possible that the
painter may wish to draw away the mind altogether from the beauty, and even correctness of
form, his subject being effect and colour, that shall be predominant,
and to which form shall be quite subservient, and little more of it
than such as chiaro-scuro shall give; and in such a case colour is
the more important truth, because in it lies the sentiment of the
picture.

      It has the
     air of a smiling and indifferent raconteur amusing an
     after-dinner table. In truth, however, this piece of writing is a
     terrible indictment made by an advocate speaking against the result
     of a tyranny of power which, through wicked stupidity or complacent
     indifference, had afflicted a people almost to extinction. The
     restraint of the writer evinced in this tract, is the more
     remarkable, when we remember that he was Ireland's foremost
     patriot, that he had been her champion for liberty and
     independence, and that an indignation filled him at all times,
     lacerating his heart, against the cruelty and oppression and
     wretchedness of humanity generally. Here, he sits down and writes
     as calmly as if composing an ordinary sermon, and proposes, in cold
     blood, to alleviate the poverty of the Irish people by the sale of
     their children as table food for the rich. He even goes into
     calculations as to cost of breeding, and shows how a mother might
     earn eight shillings a year on each child, by disposing of its
     carcass for ten shillings. Of the million and a half people who
     inhabit the country, he assumes that there are 200,000 who beget
     children; of these about 30,000 are able to provide for their
     offspring, but the balance of 170,000 must inevitably become a
     burden. What is to become of them? Many schemes have been proposed
     to meet their case, but not one of them has answered. Trade and
     agriculture gave them no opportunity, since the trade of the
     country was almost at a standstill, and land was now either too
     dear to keep or too poor to cultivate. At the time of Swift's
     writing Ireland had passed through three frightful years of famine.
     Corn had become so dear that riots occurred at the ports where what
     corn remained was being exported. The land, as Swift wrote to Pope
     (August 11th, 1729) was in every place strewn with beggars. The
     poor labourer, had work been found for him, was too weak in body to
     undertake it. Thousands had already died of starvation and the
     diseases consequent on hunger. Those that managed to exist did so
     in filth, and dying every day, as Swift wrote on another occasion,
     "and rotting, by cold and famine, and filth and vermin."

     No, there was only one way out of the difficulty, and that was to
     have these poor people breed children, which they could profitably
     dispose of for food. We were thirteen.
     
     "Lots were drawn who should be sacrificed for the salvation of the
     others. I drew number thirteen, and they put me ashore on a barren
rock, where I passed a day and night half dead with cold and drenched
with sea water. Even Primate Boulter,
     who was certainly the last man to overstate an Irish case, sent
     such reports as gave the English Government anxiety. To Swift it
     was no time for polite speeches and calm proposals. He had already
     given them in abundance. Now was the time for something merry and
     with laughter:

       "I may storm and rage in vain;
       It but stupifies your brain.
       But with raillery to nettle,
       Set your thoughts upon their mettle."

     It was in this spirit that the "Modest Proposal" was written. Swift
     concludes with a final touch by telling us that he has nothing to
     gain personally by his suggestion, since his "youngest child is
     nine and his wife past child-bearing."

       *       *       *       *       *

     The text of the present edition is that of the original issue
     collated with that given by Faulkner.

       *       *       *       *       *

By Dr. Swift.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dublin, Printed by S. Harding:

London, Reprinted; and sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-lane, and the Pamphlet-Shops. 

"Boy--why he is twenty-one!

He is my oldest friend--we learned all our lessons together. I can't recollect the time we were
not engaged, it is so long since we loved each other!"

"Nonsense! You were brought up together by his mother; it is nothing
but sisterly affection." These mothers instead of being able to work for their honest livelihood, are forced
to employ all their time in strolling, to beg sustenance for their helpless infants, who, as
they grow up, either turn thieves for want of work, or leave their dear Native Country to fight
for the Pretender in Spain,[129] or sell themselves to the Barbadoes.

I think it is agreed by all parties, that this prodigious number of children, in the arms,
or on the backs, or at the heels of their mothers, and frequently of their fathers, is in the
present deplorable state of the kingdom, a very great additional grievance; and therefore whoever
could find out a fair, cheap and easy method of making these children sound useful members
of the commonwealth would deserve so well of the public, as to have his statue set up for a
preserver of the nation.

But my intention is very far from being confined to provide only for the children of professed
beggars, it is of a much greater extent, and shall take in the whole number of infants at a
certain age, who are born of parents in effect as little able to support them, as those who
demand our charity in the streets.

As to my own part, having turned my thoughts, for many years, upon this important subject,
and maturely weighed the several schemes of other projectors, I have always found them grossly
mistaken in their computation. It is true a child, just dropped from its dam, may be supported
by her milk for a solar year with little other nourishment, at most not above the value of
two shillings, which the mother may certainly get, or the value in scraps, by her lawful occupation
of begging, and it is exactly at one year old that I propose to provide for them, in such a
manner, as, instead of being a charge upon their parents, or the parish, or wanting food and
raiment for the rest of their lives, they shall, on the contrary, contribute to the feeding
and partly to the clothing of many thousands.

There as likewise another great advantage in my scheme, that it will prevent those voluntary
abortions, and that horrid practice of women murdering their bastard children, alas, too frequent
among us, sacrificing the poor innocent babes, I doubt, more to avoid the expense, than the
shame, which would move tears and pity in the most savage and inhuman breast.

The number of souls in this kingdom being usually reckoned one million and a half,[130] of
these I calculate there may be about two hundred thousand couple whose wives are breeders,
from which number I subtract thirty thousand couples, who are able to maintain their own children,
although I apprehend there cannot be so many under the present distresses of the kingdom, but
this being granted, there will remain an hundred and seventy thousand breeders. I again subtract
fifty thousand for those women who miscarry, or whose children die by accident, or disease
within the year. There only remain an hundred and twenty thousand children of poor parents
annually born: The question therefore is, how this number shall be reared, and provided for,
which, as I have already said, under the present situation of affairs, is utterly impossible
by all the methods hitherto proposed, for we can neither employ them in handicraft, or agriculture;
we neither build houses, (I mean in the country) nor cultivate land: they can very seldom pick
up a livelihood by stealing till they arrive at six years old, except where they are of towardly
parts, although, I confess they learn the rudiments much earlier, during which time, they can
however be properly looked upon only as probationers, as I have been informed by a principal
gentleman in the County of Cavan, who protested to me, that he never knew above one or two
instances under the age of six, even in a part of the kingdom so renowned for the quickest
proficiency in that art.

I am assured by our merchants, that a boy or a girl, before twelve years old, is no saleable
commodity, and even when they come to this age, they will not yield above three pounds, or
three pounds and half-a-crown at most on the Exchange, which cannot turn to account either
to the parents or the kingdom, the charge of nutriment and rags having been at least four times
that value.

I shall now therefore humbly propose my own thoughts, which I hope will not be liable to the
least objection.

I do therefore humbly offer it to public consideration, that of the hundred and twenty thousand
children, already computed, twenty thousand may be reserved for breed, whereof only one fourth
part to be males, which is more than we allow to sheep, black-cattle, or swine, and my reason
is that these children are seldom the fruits of marriage, a circumstance not much regarded
by our savages, therefore one male will be sufficient to serve four females.

I have reckoned upon a medium, that a child just born will weigh 12 pounds, and in a solar
year if tolerably nursed increaseth to 28 pounds.

Infants' flesh will be in season throughout the year, but more plentiful in March, and a little
before and after, for we are told by a grave author an eminent French physician, that fish
being a prolific diet, there are more children born in Roman Catholic countries about nine
months after Lent, than at any other season; therefore reckoning a year after Lent, the markets
will be more glutted than usual, because the number of Popish infants, is at least three to
one in this kingdom, and therefore it will have one other collateral advantage by lessening
the number of Papists among us.

I have already computed the charge of nursing a beggar's child (in which list I reckon all
cottagers, labourers, and four-fifths of the farmers) to be about two shillings per annum,
rags included, and I believe no gentleman would repine to give ten shillings for the carcass
of a good fat child, which, as I have said will make four dishes of excellent nutritive meat,
when he hath only some particular friend, or his own family to dine with him. Thus the Squire
will learn to be a good landlord, and grow popular among his tenants, the mother will have
eight shillings net profit, and be fit for work till she produces another child.

Those who are more thrifty (as I must confess the times require) may flay the carcass; the
skin of which, artificially dressed, will make admirable gloves for ladies, and summer boots
for fine gentlemen. 

The reader will not be surprised to learn that the worst painter of trees was Gaspar Poussin!
and that the perfection of trees is to be found in Turner's "Marley," where most people will
think the trees look more like brooms than trees.

The chapter on "the Truth of Turner" concludes with a quotation--we presume the extract from a letter
from Mr Turner to the author. We must pause. Really we do not see the slightest necessity of
an interpretation here. It is a simple fact. He cannot extract "sunbeams" from cucumbers--from
the east, we should say. The only riddle seems to be, that they should, in one instance, remember
together, and in the other, feel together; only we guess that, being night-gloom, people naturally
feel about them in the dark. We must pause again; here is a riddle: what can be the meaning of
having the sun in one's spirit?--is it any thing like having the moon in one's head? We give
it up. The passion in the heart we suppose to be dead asleep, and the words and voice harsh
and grating, and so it is awakened. But what that if, or if not, has to do with "leave me," we cannot
conjecture; but this we do venture to conjecture, that to expect our graduate ever to leave Mr Turner
is one of the most hopeless of all Mr Turner's "Fallacies of Hope."
But the writer proceeds with a for--that appears, nevertheless, a
pretty considerable non-sequitur. Here the graduate is treated as
a servant, and the writer of the letter assumes the Pythian, the truly
oracular vein.

But in order to justify my friend, he confessed that this expedient was put into his head by
the famous Psalmanazar,[132] a native of the island Formosa, who came from thence to London,
above twenty years ago, and in conversation told my friend, that in his country when any young
person happened to be put to death, the executioner sold the carcass to persons of quality,
as a prime dainty, and that, in his time, the body of a plump girl of fifteen, who was crucified
for an attempt to poison the emperor, was sold to his Imperial Majesty's Prime Minister of
State, and other great Mandarins of the Court, in joints from the gibbet, at four hundred crowns.
Neither indeed can I deny, that if the same use were made of several plump young girls in this
town, who, without one single groat to their fortunes, cannot stir abroad without a chair,
and appear at the playhouse, and assemblies in foreign fineries, which they never will pay
for, the kingdom would not be the worse.

Some persons of a desponding spirit are in great concern about that vast number of poor people,
who are aged, diseased, or maimed, and I have been desired to employ my thoughts what course
may be taken, to ease the nation of so grievous an encumbrance. But I am not in the least pain
upon that matter, because it is very well known, that they are every day dying, and rotting,
by cold, and famine, and filth, and vermin, as fast as can be reasonably expected. And as to
the younger labourers they are now in almost as hopeful a condition. They cannot get work,
and consequently pine away for want of nourishment, to a degree, that if at any time they are
accidentally hired to common labour, they have not strength to perform it; and thus the country
and themselves are happily delivered from the evils to come. 

We have carefully examined many trees this last week, and find it is not the case; in almost
all, the bulging at the bottom, nearest the root, is manifest. There
is an early association in our minds, that the birch for instance
is remarkably tapering in its twigs.

For first, as I have already observed, it would greatly lessen the number of Papists, with
whom we are yearly over-run, being the principal breeders of the nation, as well as our most
dangerous enemies, and who stay at home on purpose with a design to deliver the kingdom to
the Pretender, hoping to take their advantage by the absence of so many good Protestants, who
have chosen rather to leave their country, than stay at home, and pay tithes against their
conscience, to an Episcopal curate.[133]

Secondly, The poorer tenants will have something valuable of their own, which by law may be
made liable to distress, and help to pay their landlord's rent, their corn and cattle being
already seized, and money a thing unknown.

Thirdly, Whereas the maintenance of an hundred thousand children, from two years old, and upwards,
cannot be computed at less than ten shillings a piece per annum, the nation's stock will be
thereby increased fifty thousand pounds per annum, besides the profit of a new dish, introduced
to the tables of all gentlemen of fortune in the kingdom, who have any refinement in taste,
and the money will circulate among ourselves, the goods being entirely of our own growth and
manufacture.

Fourthly, The constant breeders, besides the gain of eight shillings sterling per annum, by
the sale of their children, will be rid of the charge of maintaining them after the first year. 

Through the stillness of the evening, no longer broken by the rattle of the wheels and clatter of the
horses' feet, a clock was heard striking the hour. Another repeated it, and a third, of deeper
tone than the two preceding ones, took up the chime. Bernard started to his feet, and leaned so
far out of the carriage that his brother seized hold of him, expecting him to lose his balance
and fall out.

"It is she!" exclaimed Bernard. "'Tis the bell of
St Nicholas. Listen, Carl--my Elizabeth calls me.

