In this wild spot, I did not feel the sacredness of ancient cultivation.  It was still raw,
it was no Marathon, and no Johannisberg; yet the stirring sunlight, and the growing vines,
and the vats and bottles in the cavern, made a pleasant music for the mind.  Here, also, earth's
cream was being skimmed and garnered; and the London customers can taste, such as it is, the
tang of the earth in this green valley.  So local, so quintessential is a wine, that it seems
the very birds in the verandah might communicate a flavour, and that romantic cellar influence
the bottle next to be uncorked in Pimlico, and the smile of jolly Mr. Schram might mantle in
the glass.

But these are but experiments.  All things in this new land are moving farther on:  the wine-vats
and the miner's blasting tools but picket for a night, like Bedouin pavillions; and to-morrow,
to fresh woods!  This stir of change and these perpetual echoes of the moving footfall, haunt
the land.  Men move eternally, still chasing Fortune; and, fortune found, still wander.  As
we drove back to Calistoga, the road lay empty of mere passengers, but its green side was dotted
with the camps of travelling families:  one cumbered with a great waggonful of household stuff,
settlers going to occupy a ranche they had taken up in Mendocino, or perhaps Tehama County;
another, a party in dust coats, men and women, whom we found camped in a grove on the roadside,
all on pleasure bent, with a Chinaman to cook for them, and who waved their hands to us as
we drove by. 

"Ah, Sir!" said my new acquaintance, "I see already that you are one
of those persons who look to the dark side of things; for my part,
I think the present age the best that ever existed, and our own country
the most virtuous in Europe."

  Two languages, many dialects, innumerable
forms of piety, and countless local patriotisms and prejudices, part us among ourselves more
widely than the extreme east and west of that great continent of America.  When I am at home,
I feel a man from Glasgow to be something like a rival, a man from Barra to be more than half
a foreigner.  Yet let us meet in some far country, and, whether we hail from the braes of Manor
or the braes of Mar, some ready-made affection joins us on the instant.  It is not race.  Look
at us.  One is Norse, one Celtic, and another Saxon.  It is not community of tongue.  We have
it not among ourselves; and we have it almost to perfection, with English, or Irish, or American.
It is no tie of faith, for we detest each other's errors.  And yet somewhere, deep down in
the heart of each one of us, something yearns for the old land, and the old kindly people.

Of all mysteries of the human heart, this is perhaps the most inscrutable.

The happiest lot on earth is to be born a Scotchman.  You must pay for it in many ways, as
for all other advantages on earth.  You have to learn the paraphrases and the shorter catechism;
you generally take to drink; your youth, as far as I can find out, is a time of louder war
against society, of more outcry and tears and turmoil, than if you had been born, for instance,
in England.  But somehow life is warmer and closer; the hearth burns more redly; the lights
of home shine softer on the rainy street; the very names, endeared in verse and music, cling
nearer round our hearts.  An Englishman may meet an Englishman to-morrow, upon Chimborazo,
and neither of them care; but when the Scotch wine-grower told me of Mons Meg, it was like magic.

And, Highland and Lowland, all our hearts are Scotch.

Only a few days after I had seen M'Eckron, a message reached me in my cottage.  It was a Scotchman
who had come down a long way from the hills to market.  He had heard there was a countryman
in Calistoga, and came round to the hotel to see him.  We said a few words to each other; we
had not much to say--should never have seen each other had we stayed at home, separated alike
in space and in society; and then we shook hands, and he went his way again to his ranche among
the hills, and that was all.

Another Scotchman there was, a resident, who for the more love of the common country, douce,
serious, religious man, drove me all about the valley, and took as much interest in me as if
I had been his son:  more, perhaps; for the son has faults too keenly felt, while the abstract
countryman is perfect--like a whiff of peats.

And there was yet another.  Upon him I came suddenly, as he was calmly entering my cottage,
his mind quite evidently bent on plunder:  a man of about fifty, filthy, ragged, roguish, with
a chimney-pot hat and a tail coat, and a pursing of his mouth that might have been envied by
an elder of the kirk.  He had just such a face as I have seen a dozen times behind the plate.

"Hullo, sir!" I cried.  "Where are you going?"

He turned round without a quiver.

"You're a Scotchman, sir?" he said gravely.  "So am I; I come from Aberdeen.  This is my card,"
presenting me with a piece of pasteboard which he had raked out of some gutter in the period
of the rains.  "I was just examining this palm," he continued, indicating the misbegotten plant
before our door, "which is the largest spAcimen I have yet observed in Califoarnia."

There were four or five larger within sight.  But where was the use of argument?  He produced
a tape-line, made me help him to measure the tree at the level of the ground, and entered the
figures in a large and filthy pocket-book, all with the gravity of Solomon.  He then thanked
me profusely, remarking that such little services were due between countrymen; shook hands
with me, "for add lang syne," as he said; and took himself solemnly away, radiating dirt and
humbug as he went.

A month or two after this encounter of mine, there came a Scot to Sacramento--perhaps from
Aberdeen.  Anyway, there never was any one more Scotch in this wide world.  He could sing and
dance, and drink, I presume; and he played the pipes with vigour and success. All the Scotch
in Sacramento became infatuated with him, and spent their spare time and money, driving him
about in an open cab, between drinks, while he blew himself scarlet at the pipes.  This is
a very sad story.  After he had borrowed money from every one, he and his pipes suddenly disappeared
from Sacramento, and when I last heard, the police were looking for him.

I cannot say how this story amused me, when I felt myself so thoroughly ripe on both sides
to be duped in the same way.

It is at least a curious thing, to conclude, that the races which wander widest, Jews and Scotch,
should be the most clannish in the world.  But perhaps these two are cause and effect:  "For
ye were strangers in the land of Egypt."

PART II--WITH THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL

CHAPTER I.--TO INTRODUCE MR. KELMAR

One thing in this new country very particularly strikes a stranger, and that is the number
of antiquities.  Already there have been many cycles of population succeeding each other, and
passing away and leaving behind them relics.  These, standing on into changed times, strike
the imagination as forcibly as any pyramid or feudal tower.  The towns, like the vineyards,
are experimentally founded: they grow great and prosper by passing occasions; and when the
lode comes to an end, and the miners move elsewhere, the town remains behind them, like Palmyra
in the desert.  I suppose there are, in no country in the world, so many deserted towns as
here in California.

The whole neighbourhood of Mount Saint Helena, now so quiet and sylvan, was once alive with
mining camps and villages.  Here there would be two thousand souls under canvas; there one
thousand or fifteen hundred ensconced, as if for ever, in a town of comfortable houses.  But
the luck had failed, the mines petered out; and the army of miners had departed, and left this
quarter of the world to the rattlesnakes and deer and grizzlies, and to the slower but steadier
advance of husbandry.

It was with an eye on one of these deserted places, Pine Flat, on the Geysers road, that we
had come first to Calistoga.  There is something singularly enticing in the idea of going,
rent-free, into a ready-made house.  And to the British merchant, sitting at home at ease,
it may appear that, with such a roof over your head and a spring of clear water hard by, the
whole problem of the squatter's existence would be solved.  Food, however, has yet to be considered,
I will go as far as most people on tinned meats; some of the brightest moments of my life were
passed over tinned mulli- gatawney in the cabin of a sixteen-ton schooner, storm-stayed in
Portree Bay; but after suitable experiments, I pronounce authoritatively that man cannot live
by tins alone.  Fresh meat must be had on an occasion.  It is true that the great Foss, driving
by along the Geysers road, wooden-faced, but glorified with legend, might have been induced
to bring us meat, but the great Foss could hardly bring us milk.  To take a cow would have
involved taking a field of grass and a milkmaid; after which it would have been hardly worth
while to pause, and we might have added to our colony a flock of sheep and an experienced butcher.

It is really very disheartening how we depend on other people in this life.  "Mihi est propositum,"
as you may see by the motto, "id quod regibus;" and behold it cannot be carried out, unless
I find a neighbour rolling in cattle.

Now, my principal adviser in this matter was one whom I will call Kelmar.  That was not what
he called himself, but as soon as I set eyes on him, I knew it was or ought to be his name;
I am sure it will be his name among the angels.  Kelmar was the store-keeper, a Russian Jew,
good-natured, in a very thriving way of business, and, on equal terms, one of the most serviceable
of men.  He also had something of the expression of a Scotch country elder, who, by some peculiarity,
should chance to be a Hebrew.  He had a projecting under lip, with which he continually smiled,
or rather smirked. Mrs. Kelmar was a singularly kind woman; and the oldest son had quite a
dark and romantic bearing, and might be heard on summer evenings playing sentimental airs on
the violin.

I had no idea, at the time I made his acquaintance, what an important person Kelmar was.  But
the Jew store-keepers of California, profiting at once by the needs and habits of the people,
have made themselves in too many cases the tyrants of the rural population.  Credit is offered,
is pressed on the new customer, and when once he is beyond his depth, the tune changes, and
he is from thenceforth a white slave.  I believe, even from the little I saw, that Kelmar,
if he choose to put on the screw, could send half the settlers packing in a radius of seven
or eight miles round Calistoga.  These are continually paying him, but are never suffered to
get out of debt.  He palms dull goods upon them, for they dare not refuse to buy; he goes and
dines with them when he is on an outing, and no man is loudlier welcomed; he is their family
friend, the director of their business, and, to a degree elsewhere unknown in modern days,
their king. 

At this thought, the tears rush into my eyes: for heaven's sake, for my sake, for your own sake,
but above all, for the sake of the chevreuil, hasten to London. I figure you to myself in the
last stage of atrophy--airy as a trifle, thin as the ghost of a greyhound.

"I need say no more on the subject. I may rely on your own discretion, to procure me the immediate
pleasure of your company. Indeed, were I to dwell longer on your melancholy situation, my feelings
would overcome me- -Mais, revenons a nos moutons--(a most pertinent phrase, by the by--oh!
the French excel us in every thing, from the paramount science of
cookery, to the little art of conversation.)

"You must tell me your
candid, your unbiassed, your deliberate opinion of chevreuil.

For my part, I should not wonder at the mythology of the northern heathen nations, which places
hunting among the chief enjoyments of their heaven, were chevreuil the object of their chace;
but nihil est omni parte beatum, it wants fat, my dear Pelham, it wants fat: nor do I see how
to remedy this defect; for were we by art to supply the fat, we should deprive ourselves of the
flavour bestowed by nature; and this, my dear Pelham, was always my great argument for liberty.
Cooped, chained, and confined in cities, and slavery, all things lose the fresh and generous
tastes, which it is the peculiar blessing of freedom and the country to afford.

"Tell me, my friend, what has been the late subject of your reflections? My thoughts have dwelt much,
and seriously, on the 'terra incognita,' the undiscovered tracts
in the pays culinaire, which the profoundest investigators have left
untouched and unexplored in veal.

But more of this hereafter;--the lightness of a letter, is ill suited to the depths of philosophical
research.

"Lord Dawton sounded me upon my votes yesterday. 'A thousand pities too,' said he, 'that you
never speak in the House of Lords.' 'Orator fit,' said I--orators are subject to apoplexy.

"Adieu,
my dear friend, for friend you are, if the philosopher was right
in defining true friendship to consist in liking and disliking the
same things.

[Seneca.] You hate parsnips au naturel--so do I; you love pates du
foie gras, et moi aussi--nous voila les meilleurs amis du monde.

  But it was eight before we got
clear of Calistoga:  Kelmar, Mrs. Kelmar, a friend of theirs whom we named Abramina, her little
daughter, my wife, myself, and, stowed away behind us, a cluster of ship's coffee-kettles.
These last were highly ornamental in the sheen of their bright tin, but I could invent no reason
for their presence.  Our carriageful reckoned up, as near as we could get at it, some three
hundred years to the six of us.  Four of the six, besides, were Hebrews.  But I never, in all
my life, was conscious of so strong an atmosphere of holiday. No word was spoken but of pleasure;
and even when we drove in silence, nods and smiles went round the party like refreshments.

The sun shone out of a cloudless sky.  Close at the zenith rode the belated moon, still clearly
visible, and, along one margin, even bright.  The wind blew a gale from the north; the trees
roared; the corn and the deep grass in the valley fled in whitening surges; the dust towered
into the air along the road and dispersed like the smoke of battle.  It was clear in our teeth
from the first, and for all the windings of the road it managed to keep clear in our teeth
until the end.

For some two miles we rattled through the valley, skirting the eastern foothills; then we struck
off to the right, through haugh- land, and presently, crossing a dry water-course, entered
the Toll road, or, to be more local, entered on "the grade."  The road mounts the near shoulder
of Mount Saint Helena, bound northward into Lake County.  In one place it skirts along the
edge of a narrow and deep canyon, filled with trees, and I was glad, indeed, not to be driven
at this point by the dashing Foss.  Kelmar, with his unvarying smile, jogging to the motion
of the trap, drove for all the world like a good, plain, country clergyman at home; and I profess
I blessed him unawares for his timidity.

Vineyards and deep meadows, islanded and framed with thicket, gave place more and more as we
ascended to woods of oak and madrona, dotted with enormous pines.  It was these pines, as they
shot above the lower wood, that produced that pencilling of single trees I had so often remarked
from the valley.  Thence, looking up and from however far, each fir stands separate against
the sky no bigger than an eyelash; and all together lend a quaint, fringed aspect to the hills.
The oak is no baby; even the madrona, upon these spurs of Mount Saint Helena, comes to a fine
bulk and ranks with forest trees--but the pines look down upon the rest for underwood.  As
Mount Saint Helena among her foothills, so these dark giants out- top their fellow-vegetables.
Alas! if they had left the redwoods, the pines, in turn, would have been dwarfed.  But the
redwoods, fallen from their high estate, are serving as family bedsteads, or yet more humbly
as field fences, along all Napa Valley.

A rough smack of resin was in the air, and a crystal mountain purity.  It came pouring over
these green slopes by the oceanful. The woods sang aloud, and gave largely of their healthful
breath. Gladness seemed to inhabit these upper zones, and we had left indifference behind us
in the valley.  "I to the hills lift mine eyes!"  There are days in a life when thus to climb
out of the lowlands, seems like scaling heaven.

As we continued to ascend, the wind fell upon us with increasing strength.  It was a wonder
how the two stout horses managed to pull us up that steep incline and still face the athletic
opposition of the wind, or how their great eyes were able to endure the dust. Ten minutes after
we went by, a tree fell, blocking the road; and even before us leaves were thickly strewn,
and boughs had fallen, large enough to make the passage difficult.  But now we were hard by
the summit.  The road crosses the ridge, just in the nick that Kelmar showed me from below,
and then, without pause, plunges down a deep, thickly wooded glen on the farther side.  At
the highest point a trail strikes up the main hill to the leftward; and that leads to Silverado.
A hundred yards beyond, and in a kind of elbow of the glen, stands the Toll House Hotel.  We
came up the one side, were caught upon the summit by the whole weight of the wind as it poured
over into Napa Valley, and a minute after had drawn up in shelter, but all buffetted and breathless,
at the Toll House door.

A water-tank, and stables, and a gray house of two stories, with gable ends and a verandah,
are jammed hard against the hillside, just where a stream has cut for itself a narrow canyon,
filled with pines.  The pines go right up overhead; a little more and the stream might have
played, like a fire-hose, on the Toll House roof. In front the ground drops as sharply as it
rises behind.  There is just room for the road and a sort of promontory of croquet ground,
and then you can lean over the edge and look deep below you through the wood.  I said croquet
GROUND, not GREEN; for the surface was of brown, beaten earth.  The toll-bar itself was the
only other note of originality:  a long beam, turning on a post, and kept slightly horizontal
by a counterweight of stones.  Regularly about sundown this rude barrier was swung, like a
derrick, across the road and made fast, I think, to a tree upon the farther side.

On our arrival there followed a gay scene in the bar.  I was presented to Mr. Corwin, the landlord;
to Mr. Jennings, the engineer, who lives there for his health; to Mr. Hoddy, a most pleasant
little gentleman, once a member of the Ohio legislature, again the editor of a local paper,
and now, with undiminished dignity, keeping the Toll House bar.  I had a number of drinks and
cigars bestowed on me, and enjoyed a famous opportunity of seeing Kelmar in his glory, friendly,
radiant, smiling, steadily edging one of the ship's kettles on the reluctant Corwin.

Corwin, plainly aghast, resisted gallantly, and for that bout victory crowned his arms.

At last we set forth for Silverado on foot.  Kelmar and his jolly Jew girls were full of the
sentiment of Sunday outings, breathed geniality and vagueness, and suffered a little vile boy
from the hotel to lead them here and there about the woods.  For three people all so old, so
bulky in body, and belonging to a race so venerable, they could not but surprise us by their
extreme and almost imbecile youthfulness of spirit.  They were only going to stay ten minutes
at the Toll House; had they not twenty long miles of road before them on the other side?  Stay
to dinner?  Not they! Put up the horses? Never.  Let us attach them to the verandah by a wisp
of straw rope, such as would not have held a person's hat on that blustering day.  And with
all these protestations of hurry, they proved irresponsible like children.  Kelmar himself,
shrewd old Russian Jew, with a smirk that seemed just to have concluded a bargain to its satisfaction,
intrusted himself and us devoutly to that boy.  Yet the boy was patently fallacious; and for
that matter a most unsympathetic urchin, raised apparently on gingerbread.  He was bent on
his own pleasure, nothing else; and Kelmar followed him to his ruin, with the same shrewd smirk.
If the boy said there was "a hole there in the hill"--a hole, pure and simple, neither more
nor less--Kelmar and his Jew girls would follow him a hundred yards to look complacently down
that hole.  For two hours we looked for houses; and for two hours they followed us, smelling
trees, picking flowers, foisting false botany on the unwary.  Had we taken five, with that
vile lad to head them off on idle divagations, for five they would have smiled and stumbled
through the woods.

However, we came forth at length, and as by accident, upon a lawn, sparse planted like an orchard,
but with forest instead of fruit trees.  That was the site of Silverado mining town.  A piece
of ground was levelled up, where Kelmar's store had been; and facing that we saw Rufe Hanson's
house, still bearing on its front the legend Silverado Hotel.  Not another sign of habitation.
Silverado town had all been carted from the scene; one of the houses was now the school-house
far down the road; one was gone here, one there, but all were gone away.

It was now a sylvan solitude, and the silence was unbroken but by the great, vague voice of
the wind.  Some days before our visit, a grizzly bear had been sporting round the Hansons'
chicken-house.

Mrs. Hanson was at home alone, we found.  Rufe had been out after a "bar," had risen late,
and was now gone, it did not clearly appear whither.  Perhaps he had had wind of Kelmar's coming,
and was now ensconced among the underwood, or watching us from the shoulder of the mountain.
We, hearing there were no houses to be had, were for immediately giving up all hopes of Silverado.
But this, somehow, was not to Kelmar's fancy.  He first proposed that we should "camp someveres
around, ain't it?" waving his hand cheerily as though to weave a spell; and when that was firmly
rejected, he decided that we must take up house with the Hansons.  Mrs. Hanson had been, from
the first, flustered, subdued, and a little pale; but from this proposition she recoiled with
haggard indignation.  So did we, who would have preferred, in a manner of speaking, death.
But Kelmar was not to be put by.  He edged Mrs. Hanson into a corner, where for a long time
he threatened her with his forefinger, like a character in Dickens; and the poor woman, driven
to her entrenchments, at last remembered with a shriek that there were still some houses at
the tunnel.

Thither we went; the Jews, who should already have been miles into Lake County, still cheerily
accompanying us.  For about a furlong we followed a good road alone, the hillside through the
forest, until suddenly that road widened out and came abruptly to an end. A canyon, woody below,
red, rocky, and naked overhead, was here walled across by a dump of rolling stones, dangerously
steep, and from twenty to thirty feet in height.  A rusty iron chute on wooden legs came flying,
like a monstrous gargoyle, across the parapet. It was down this that they poured the precious
ore; and below here the carts stood to wait their lading, and carry it mill-ward down the mountain.

The whole canyon was so entirely blocked, as if by some rude guerilla fortification, that we
could only mount by lengths of wooden ladder, fixed in the hillside.  These led us round the
farther corner of the dump; and when they were at an end, we still persevered over loose rubble
and wading deep in poison oak, till we struck a triangular platform, filling up the whole glen,
and shut in on either hand by bold projections of the mountain.  Only in front the place was
open like the proscenium of a theatre, and we looked forth into a great realm of air, and down
upon treetops and hilltops, and far and near on wild and varied country.  The place still stood
as on the day it was deserted:  a line of iron rails with a bifurcation; a truck in working
order; a world of lumber, old wood, old iron; a blacksmith's forge on one side, half buried
in the leaves of dwarf madronas; and on the other, an old brown wooden house.

Fanny and I dashed at the house.  It consisted of three rooms, and was so plastered against
the hill, that one room was right atop of another, that the upper floor was more than twice
as large as the lower, and that all three apartments must be entered from a different side
and level.  Not a window-sash remained.

The door of the lower room was smashed, and one panel hung in splinters.  We entered that,
and found a fair amount of rubbish: sand and gravel that had been sifted in there by the mountain
winds; straw, sticks, and stones; a table, a barrel; a plate-rack on the wall; two home-made
bootjacks, signs of miners and their boots; and a pair of papers pinned on the boarding, headed
respectively "Funnel No. 1," and "Funnel No. 2," but with the tails torn away.  The window,
sashless of course, was choked with the green and sweetly smelling foliage of a bay; and through
a chink in the floor, a spray of poison oak had shot up and was handsomely prospering in the
interior.  It was my first care to cut away that poison oak, Fanny standing by at a respectful
distance.  That was our first improvement by which we took possession.

The room immediately above could only be entered by a plank propped against the threshold,
along which the intruder must foot it gingerly, clutching for support to sprays of poison oak,
the proper product of the country.  Herein was, on either hand, a triple tier of beds, where
miners had once lain; and the other gable was pierced by a sashless window and a doorless doorway
opening on the air of heaven, five feet above the ground.  As for the third room, which entered
squarely from the ground level, but higher up the hill and farther up the canyon, it contained
only rubbish and the uprights for another triple tier of beds.

The whole building was overhung by a bold, lion-like, red rock. Poison oak, sweet bay trees,
calcanthus, brush, and chaparral, grew freely but sparsely all about it. In front, in the strong
sunshine, the platform lay overstrewn with busy litter, as though the labours of the mine might
begin again to-morrow in the morning.

