Our new acquaintance had, by this time, emerged into one of those regions of brown, broken,
heathery waste, thinly mottled with tree and shrub, which seem usually to distinguish the first
steppes on the approach to our mountain country. Though undulating, and rising occasionally
into hill and crag, the tract was yet sufficiently monotonous; rather saddened than relieved
by the gentle sunset, which seemed to gild in mockery the skeleton woods and forests, just
recovering from the keen biting blasts of a severe and protracted winter.

Our traveller, naturally of a dreamy and musing spirit, here fell unconsciously into a narrow
footpath, an old Indian trace, and without pause or observation, followed it as if quite indifferent
whither it led. He was evidently absorbed in that occupation--a very unusual one with youth
on horseback--that "chewing of the cud of sweet and bitter thought"--which testifies for premature
troubles and still gnawing anxieties of soul. His thoughts were seemingly in full unison with
the almost grave-like stillness and solemn hush of everything around him. His spirit appeared
to yield itself up entirely to the mournful barrenness and uninviting associations, from which
all but himself, birds and beasts, and the very insects, seemed utterly to have departed. The
faint hum of a single wood-chuck, which, from its confused motions, appeared to have wandered
into an unknown territory, and by its uneasy action and frequent chirping, seemed to indicate
a perfect knowledge of the fact, was the only object which at intervals broke through the spell
of silence which hung so heavily upon the sense. It is high time, it seems to me, that a moral
game-law were passed for the preservation of the wild and vagrant feelings of human nature.'"

"That
is a dangerous doctrine, my dear child, especially for a woman to entertain; because custom rules
us with an iron rod, and flays us alive if we contravene her decrees."

"I should be exceedingly glad to learn by what authority or process Truth is provided with sex?
Are some orthodox doctrines female and others male? Why have not we women as clear a right
to any given set of principles as men? Truth is as much my property as that of the Czar of Russia,
and, if I choose to lay hold of any special province of it, why must I perforce be dragged
to the whipping-post of custom, simply because by an accident I am called Susan or Hepzibah
instead of Peter or Lazarus? So long as my convictions of truth (which custom brands as vagaries)
are innocuous, I have a perfect and inalienable right to indulge them; but the instant I become
pestiferous to society, let me be consigned to the tender mercies of strait-jacket and insane-asylum
regimen. If I creep quietly along my own intellectual and ethical trail, taking heed not to touch
the sensitive toes of custom, why should it ungenerously insist upon
bruising mine?

My seer was right when he boldly declared, 'The world has stood long enough under the drill of
Adjutant Fashion.' It is hard work, the posture is wearisome, and Fashion is an awful martinet,
and has a quick eye, and comes down mercilessly on the unfortunate wight who can not square
his toes to the approved pattern. It is killing work. Suppose we try 'standing at ease' for a
little while? Wherefore, custom to the contrary notwithstanding, I contend that Mrs. Gerome has
as indisputable a right to refuse admittance to Rev. Mrs. Spiewell as any anchorite of the
Nitrian Sands to decline receiving a bevy of inquisitive European
belles.

If society rules like Russia or Turkey, then am I a candidate for knout and bastinado.
 Whither have you brought us?"

The philosophy which tells us, when lost, to give the reins to the steed, will avail but little
in a region where the horse has never been before. This our traveller seemed very well to know.
But the blame was not chargeable upon Blucher. He had tacitly appealed to the beast for his
direction when suffering the bridle to fall upon his neck. He was not willing, now, to accord
to him a farther discretion; and was quite too much of the man to forbear any longer the proper
exercise of his own faculties. With the quickening intelligence in his eyes, and the compression
of his lips, declaring a resolute will, he pricked the animal forward, no longer giving way
to those brown musings, which, during the previous hour, had not only taken him to remote regions
but very much out of his way besides. In sober earnest, he had lost the way, and, in sober
earnest, he set about to recover it; but a ten minutes' farther ride only led him to farther
involvements; and he paused, for a moment, to hold tacit counsel with his steed, whose behavior
was very much that of one who understands fully his own, and the predicament of his master.
Our traveller then dismounted, and, suffering his bridle to rest upon the neck of the docile
beast, he coursed about on all sides, looking close to the earth in hopes to find some ancient
traces of a pathway. But his search was vain. His anxieties increased. The sunlight was growing
fainter and fainter; and, in spite of the reckless manner, which he still wore, you might see
a lurking and growing anxiety in his quick and restless eye. He was vexed with himself that
he had suffered his wits to let fall his reins; and his disquiet was but imperfectly concealed
under the careless gesture and rather philosophic swing of his graceful person, as, plying
his silent way, through clumps of brush, and bush, and tree, he vainly peered along the earth
for the missing traces of the route. He looked up for the openings in the tree-tops--he looked
west, at the rapidly speeding sun, and shook his head at his horse. Though bold of heart, no
doubt, and tolerably well aware of the usual backwoods mode of procedure in all such cases
of embarrassment, our traveller had been too gently nurtured to affect a lodge in the wilderness
that night--its very "vast contiguity of shade" being anything but attractive in his present
mood. No doubt, he could have borne the necessity as well as any other man, but still he held
it a necessity to be avoided if possible. He had, we are fain to confess, but small passion
for that "grassy couch," and "leafy bower," and those other rural felicities, of which your
city poets, who lie snug in garrets, are so prone to sing; and always gave the most unromantic
preference to comfortable lodgings and a good roof; so, persevering in his search after the
pathway, while any prospect of success remained, he circled about until equally hopeless and
fatigued; then, remounted his steed, and throwing the bridle upon his neck, with something
of the indifference of despair, he plied his spurs, suffering the animal to adopt his own course,
which we shall see was nevertheless interrupted by the appearance of another party upon the
scene, whose introduction we reserve for another chapter.

CHAPTER II.

THE ENCOUNTER--THE CHEVALIER D'INDUSTRIE.

Thus left to himself, the good steed of our traveller set off, without hesitation, and with
a free step, that promised, at least, to overcome space hurriedly, if it attained not the desired
destination. The rider did not suffer any of his own doubts to mar a progress so confidently
begun; and a few minutes carried the twain, horse and man, deeply, as it were, into the very
bowels of the forest. The path taken by the steed grew every moment more and more intricate
and difficult of access, and, but for the interruption already referred to, it is not impossible
that a continued course in the same direction, would have brought the rider to a full stop
from the sheer inaccessibleness of the forest.

The route thus taken lay in a valley which was necessarily more fertile, more densely packed
with thicket, than the higher road which our rider had been pursuing all the day. The branches
grew more and more close; and, what with the fallen trees, the spreading boughs, the undergrowth,
and broken character of the plain, our horseman was fain to leave the horse to himself, finding
quite enough to do in saving his eyes, and keeping his head from awkward contact with overhanging
timber. The pace of the beast necessarily sunk into a walk. The question with his rider was,
in what direction to turn, to extricate himself from the mazes into which he had so rashly
ridden? While he mused this question, Blucher started suddenly with evidently some new and
exciting consciousness. His ears were suddenly lifted--his eyes were strained upon the copse
in front--he halted, as if reluctant to proceed. It was evident that his senses had taken in
some sights, or sounds, which were unusual.

Of course, our traveller was by no means heedless of this behavior on the part of the beast.
He well knew the superior keenness of the brute senses, over those of the man; and his own
faculties were keenly enlisted in the scrutiny. There might be wolves along the track--the
country was not wanting in them; or, more to be feared, there might be a panther lurking along
some great overhanging forest bough. There was need to be vigilant. Either of these savages
would make his propinquity known, at a short distance, to the senses of an animal so timid
as the horse. Or, it might be, that a worse beast still--always worst of all when he emulates
the nature of the beast--man!--might be lurking upon the track! If so, the nature of the peril
was perhaps greater still, to the rider if not the steed. The section of the wild world in
which our traveller journeyed was of doubtful character; but sparingly supplied with good citizens;
and most certainly infested with many with whom the world had quarrelled--whom it had driven
forth in shame and terror.

The youth thought of all these things. But they did not overcome his will, or lessen his courage.
Preparing himself, as well as he might, for all chances, he renewed his efforts to extricate
himself from his thick harborage; pressing his steed firmly, in a direction which seemed to
open fairly, the sky appearing more distinctly through the opening of the trees above. Meanwhile,
he kept his eyes busy, watching right and left. Still, he could see nothing, hear nothing,
but the slight footfall of his own steed. And yet the animal continued uneasy, his ears pricked
up, his head turning, this way and that, with evident curiosity; his feet set down hesitatingly,
as if uncertain whether to proceed.

Curious and anxious, our traveller patted the neck of the beast affectionately, and, in low
tones, endeavored to soothe his apprehensions:

"Quietly, Blucher, quietly? What do you see, old fellow, to make you uneasy? Is it the snug
stall, and the dry fodder, and the thirty ears, for which you long. I'faith, old fellow, the
chance is that both of us will seek shelter and supper in vain to-night."

Blucher pricked up his ears at the tones, however subdued, of his rider's voice, which he well
knew; but his uneasiness continued; and, just when our young traveller, began to feel some
impatience at his restiffness and coyness, a shrill whistle which rang through the forest,
from the copse in front, seemed at once to determine the correctness of sense in the animal,
and the sort of beast which had occasioned his anxieties. He was not much longer left in doubt
as to the cause of the animal's excitement. A few bounds brought him unexpectedly into a pathway,
still girdled, however, by a close thicket--and having an ascent over a hill, the top of which
was of considerable elevation compared with the plain he had been pursuing. As the horse entered
this pathway, and began the ascent, he shyed suddenly, and so abruptly, that a less practised
rider would have lost his seat.

"Quiet, beast! what do you see?"

The traveller himself looked forward at his own query, and soon discovered the occasion of
his steed's alarm. No occasion for alarm, either, judging by appearances; no panther, no wolf,
certainly--a man only--looking innocent enough, were it not for the suspicious fact that he
seemed to have put himself in waiting, and stood directly in the midst of the path that the
horseman was pursuing.

Our traveller, as we have seen, was not wholly unprepared, as well to expect as to encounter
hostilities. In addition to his pistols, which were well charged, and conveniently at hand,
we may now add that he carried another weapon, for close quarters, concealed in his bosom.
The appearance of the stranger was not, however, so decided a manifestation of hostility, as
to justify his acting with any haste by the premature use of his defences. Besides, no man
of sense, and such we take our traveller to be, will force a quarrel where he can make his
way peacefully, like a Christian and a gentleman. Our young traveller very quietly observed
as he approached the stranger--

"You scare my horse, sir. Will it please you to give us the road?"

"Give you the road?--Oh! yes! when you have paid the toll, young master!"

The manner of the man was full of insolence, and the blood, in a moment, rushed to the cheeks
of the youth. He divined, by instinct, that there was some trouble in preparation for him,
and his teeth were silently clenched together, and his soul nerved itself for anticipated conflict.
He gazed calmly, however, though sternly, at the stranger, who appeared nothing daunted by
the expression in the eyes of the traveller. His air was that of quiet indifference, bordering
on contempt, as if he knew his duties, or his man, and was resolved upon the course he was
appointed to pursue. When men meet thus, if they are persons of even ordinary intelligence,
the instincts are quick to conceive and act, and the youth was now more assured than ever,
that the contest awaited him which should try his strength. This called up all his resources,
and we may infer that he possessed them in large degree, from his quiet forbearance and deliberation,
even when he became fully sensible of the insolence of the person with whom he felt about to
grapple.

As yet, however, judging from other appearances, there was no violence meditated by the stranger.
He was simply insolent, and he was in the way. He carried no weapons--none which met the sight,
at least, and there was nothing in his personal appearance calculated to occasion apprehension.
His frame was small, his limbs slight, and they did not afford promise of much activity. His
face was not ill favored, though a quick, restless black eye, keen and searching, had in it
a lurking malignity, like that of a snake, which impressed the spectator with suspicion at
the first casual glance. His nose, long and sharp, was almost totally fleshless; the skin being
drawn so tightly over the bones, as to provoke the fear that any violent effort would cause
them to force their way through the frail integument. An untrimmed beard, run wild; and a pair
of whiskers so huge, as to refuse all accordance with the thin diminutive cheeks which wore
them; thin lips, and a sharp chin;--completed the outline of a very unprepossessing face, which
a broad high forehead did not tend very much to improve or dignify.

Though the air of the stranger was insolent, and his manner rude, our young traveller was unwilling
to decide unfavorably. At all events, his policy and mood equally inclined him to avoid any
proceeding which should precipitate or compel violence.

"There are many good people in the world"--so he thought--"who are better than they promise;
many good Christians, whose aspects would enable them to pass, in any crowd, as very tolerable
and becoming ruffians. This fellow may be one of the unfortunate order of virtuous people,
cursed with an unbecoming visage. We will see before we shoot."

Thus thought our traveller, quickly, as became his situation. He determined accordingly, while
foregoing none of his precautions, to see farther into the designs of the stranger, before
he resorted to any desperate issues. He replied, accordingly, to the requisition of the speaker;
the manner, rather than the matter of which, had proved offensive.

"Toll! You ask toll of me! By what right, sir, and for whom do you require it?" 

"But, Ulpian, I hear strange things about her, and it is hinted that she is deranged."

"Your knowledge of human nature should teach you how little truth is generally found in the
floating on dits of social circles."

"How long has she been widowed?"

"I do not know, but presume that
her affliction has not been very recent, as she wears no mourning."

"If
she has discarded widow's weeds, and dresses in colors, why should
she taboo society, and make herself the town-talk by refusing to receive
even the clergy and their wives? I am not the person whom you can
play your pranks upon with safety, and unless you will be pleased to speak a little more respectfully,
our parley will have a shorter life, and a rougher ending, than you fancy."

"It would scarcely be polite to contradict so promising a young gentleman as yourself," was
the response; "but I am disposed to believe our intimacy likely to lengthen, rather than diminish.
I hate to part over-soon with company that talks so well; particularly in these woods, where,
unless such a chance come about as the present, the lungs of the heartiest youth in the land
would not be often apt to find the echo they seek, though they cried for it at the uttermost
pitch of the pipe."

The look and the language of the speaker were alike significant, and the sinister meaning of
the last sentence did not escape the notice of him to whom was addressed. His reply was calm,
however, and his mind grew more at ease, more collected, with his growing consciousness of
annoyance and danger. He answered the stranger in a vein not unlike his own.

"You are pleased to be eloquent, worthy sir--and, on any other occasion, I might not be unwilling
to bestow my ear upon you; but as I have yet to find my way out of this labyrinth, for the
use of which your facetiousness would have me pay a tax, I must forego that satisfaction, and
leave the enjoyment for some better day."

"You are well bred, I see, young sir," was the reply, "and this forms an additional reason
why I should not desire so soon to break our acquaintance. If you have mistaken your road,
what do you on this?--why are you in this part of the country, which is many miles removed
from any public thoroughfare?"

"By what right do you ask the question?" was the hurried and unhesitating response. "You are
impertinent!"

"Softly, softly, young sir. Be not rash, and let me recommend that you be more choice in the
adoption of your epithets. Impertinent is an ugly word between gentlemen of our habit. Touching
my right to ask this or that question of young men who lose the way, that's neither here nor
there, and is important in no way. But, I take it, I should have some right in this matter,
seeing, young sir, that you are upon the turnpike and I am the gate-keeper who must take the toll."

A sarcastic smile passed over the lips of the man as he uttered the sentence, which was as
suddenly succeeded, however, by an expression of gravity, partaking of an air of the profoundest
business. The traveller surveyed him for a moment before he replied, as if to ascertain in
what point of view properly to understand his conduct.

"Turnpike! this is something new. Her spine was so badly injured that although there is no danger
of immediate death, she will never be able to sit up or walk again. She may linger many months,
possibly years; but must, as long as life lasts, remain a bed-ridden cripple. It is one of the
saddest cases I have had to deal with during my professional career;
and Elsie Maclean bears her sufferings with such noble fortitude,
such genuine Christian patience, coupled with stern Scotch heroism,
that I cannot withhold my admiration and earnest sympathy.

Yesterday I held a consultation with four physicians, and, when we told her the hopelessness
of her condition, she received the announcement without even a sigh,
and seemed only to dread that instead of an assistant she might prove
a burden to her mistress."



"Confine yourself, if you please, to the matter in hand--I grow weary of this chat," said the
youth with a haughty inclination, that seemed to have its effect even upon him with whom he spoke.

"Your question is quickly answered. You have heard of the Pony Club--have you not?"

"I must confess my utter ignorance of such an institution. I have never heard even the name
before."

"You have not--then really it is high time to begin the work of enlightenment. You must know,
then, that the Pony Club is the proprietor of everything and everybody, throughout the nation,
and in and about this section. It is the king, without let or limitation of powers, for sixty
miles around. Scarce a man in Georgia but pays in some sort to its support--and judge and jury
alike contribute to its treasuries. Few dispute its authority, as you will have reason to discover,
without suffering condign and certain punishment; and, unlike the tributaries and agents of
other powers, its servitors, like myself, invested with jurisdiction over certain parts and
interests, sleep not in the performance of our duties; but, day and night, obey its dictates,
and perform the various, always laborious, and sometimes dangerous functions which it imposes
upon us. It finds us in men, in money, in horses. It assesses the Cherokees, and they yield
a tithe, and sometimes a greater proportion of their ponies, in obedience to its requisitions.
Hence, indeed, the name of the club. It relieves young travellers, like yourself, of their
small change--their sixpences; and when they happen to have a good patent lever, such a one
as a smart young gentleman like yourself is very apt to carry about him, it is not scrupulous,
but helps them of that too, merely by way of pas-time."

And the ruffian chuckled in a half-covert manner at his own pun.

"Truly, a well-conceived sort of sovereignty, and doubtless sufficiently well served, if I
may infer from the representative before me. You must do a large business in this way, most
worthy sir."

"Why, that we do, and your remark reminds me that I have quite as little time to lose as yourself.
You now understand, young sir, the toll you have to pay, and the proprietor who claims it."

"Perfectly--perfectly. You will not suppose me dull again, most candid keeper of the Pony Turnpike.
But have you made up your mind, in earnest, to relieve me of such trifling encumbrances as
those you have just mentioned?"

"I should be strangely neglectful of the duties of my station, not to speak of the discourtesy
of such a neglect to yourself, were I to do otherwise; always supposing you burdened with such
encumbrances. I put it to yourself, whether such would not be the effect of my omission."

"It most certainly would, most frank and candid of all the outlaws. Your punctiliousness on
this point of honor entitles you, in my mind, to an elevation above and beyond all others of
your profession. I admire the grace of your manner, in the commission of acts which the more
tame and temperate of our kind are apt to look upon as irregular and unlovely. You, I see,
have the true notion of the thing."

The ruffian looked with some doubt upon the youth--inquiringly, as if to account in some way
for the singular coolness, not to say contemptuous scornfulness, of his replies and manner.
There was something, too, of a searching malignity in his glance, that seemed to recognise
in his survey features which brought into activity a personal emotion in his own bosom, not
at variance, indeed, with the craft he was pursuing, but fully above and utterly beyond it.
Dismissing, however, the expression, he continued in the manner and tone so tacitly adopted
between the parties.

"I am heartily glad, most travelled young gentleman, that your opinion so completely coincides
with my own, since it assures me I shall not be compelled, as is sometimes the case in the
performance of my duties, to offer any rudeness to one seemingly so well taught as yourself.
Knowing the relationship between us so fully, you can have no reasonable objection to conform
quietly to all my requisitions, and yield the toll-keeper his dues."

Our traveller had been long aware, in some degree, of the kind of relationship between himself
and his companion; but, relying on his defences, and perhaps somewhat too much on his own personal
capacities of defence, and, possibly, something curious to see how far the love of speech in
his assailant might carry him in a dialogue of so artificial a character, he forbore as yet
a resort to violence. He found it excessively difficult, however, to account for the strange
nature of the transaction so far as it had gone; and the language of the robber seemed so inconsistent
with his pursuit, that, at intervals, he was almost led to doubt whether the whole was not
the clever jest of some country sportsman, who, in the guise of a levyer of contributions upon
the traveller, would make an acquaintance, such as is frequent in the South, terminating usually
in a ride to a neighboring plantation, and pleasant accommodations so long as the stranger
might think proper to avail himself of them.

If, on the other hand, the stranger was in reality the ruffian he represented himself, he knew
not how to account for his delay in the assault--a delay, to the youth's mind, without an object--unless
attributable to a temper of mind like that of Robin Hood, and coupled in the person before
him, as in that of the renowned king of the outlaws, with a peculiar freedom and generosity
of habit, and a gallantry and adroitness which, in a different field, had made him a knight
worthy to follow and fight for Baldwin and the Holy Cross. Our young traveller was a romanticist,
and all of these notions came severally into his thoughts. When a woman unaccountably turns recluse,
she is at the mercy of public imagination, stimulated by disappointed curiosity; and very soon
the verdict goes forth that she is either deformed or deranged."

"I dispute the prerogative of the public to dictate in such matters,
and I shall rebel whenever it presumes to lay even a little finger
across my path.

What, pray tell me, is the world, but an aggregation of persons like you and me, and what possible
concern can you or I have with the fact that Mrs. Gerome burrows like a mole, beyond our sight? If she
sees fit to found a modern sect of Troglodytes, I can't understand that the wheels of society
are thereby scotched, or that the public has a shadow of right to raise a hue-and-cry and strive
to unearth her, as if she were a fox, a catamount, or a gopher. Beyond this, however (and the difficulty grieves me sorely), I am so perfectly
incapacitated from doing anything, that I am almost persuaded, in order to the bettering of
my own condition, to pay the customary fees, and applying to your honorable body for the privilege
of membership, procure those means of lavish generosity which my necessity, and not my will,
prevents me from bestowing upon you."

"A very pretty idea," returned he of the road; "and under such circumstances, your jest about
the cravat from Kentucky is by no means wanting in proper application. But the fact is, our
numbers are just now complete--our ranks are full--and the candidates for the honor are so
numerous as to leave little chance for an applicant. You might be compelled to wait a long
season, unless the Georgia penitentiary and Georgia guard shall create a vacancy in your behalf."

"Truly, the matter is of very serious regret," with an air of much solemnity, replied the youth,
who seemed admirably to have caught up the spirit of the dialogue--"and it grieves me the more
to know, that, under this view of the case, I can no more satisfy you than I can serve myself.
It is quite unlucky that your influence is insufficient to procure me admission into your fraternity;
since it is impossible that I should pay the turnpike, when the club itself, by refusing me
membership, will not permit me to acquire the means of doing so. So, as the woods grow momently
more dull and dark, and as I may have to ride far for a supper, I am constrained, however unwilling
to leave good company, to wish you a fair evening, and a long swing of fortune, most worthy
knight of the highway, and trusty representative of the Pony Club."

With these words, the youth, gathering up the bridle of the horse, and slightly touching him
with the rowel, would have proceeded on his course; but the position of the outlaw now underwent
a corresponding change, and, grasping the rein of the animal, he arrested his farther progress.

"I am less willing to separate than yourself from good company, gentle youth, as you may perceive;
since I so carefully restrain you from a ride over a road so perilous as this. You have spoken
like a fair and able scholar this afternoon; and talents, such as you possess, come too seldom
into our forests to suffer them, after so brief a sample, to leave us so abruptly. You must
come to terms with the turnpike."

"Take your hands from my horse, sirrah!" was the only response made by the youth; his tone
and manner corresponding with the change in the situation of the parties. "I would not do you
harm willingly; I want no man's blood on my head; but my pistols, let me assure you, are much
more readily come at than my purse. Tempt me not to use them--stand from the way."

"It may not be," replied the robber, with a composure and coolness that underwent no change;
"your threats affect me not. I have not taken my place here without a perfect knowledge of
all its dangers and consequences. You had better come peaceably to terms; for, were it even
the case that you could escape me, you have only to cast your eye up the path before you, to
be assured of the utter impossibility of escaping those who aid me. The same glance will also
show you the tollgate, which you could not see before. Look ahead, young sir, and be wise in
time; and let me perform my duties without hindrance."

