Jurgis sat up with a start. Marija was crying with fright and the children were wailing in
sympathy--little Stanislovas in addition, because the terror of the snow was upon him. Jurgis
had nothing to put on but his shoes and his coat, and in half a minute he was out of the door.
Then, however, he realized that there was no need of haste, that he had no idea where to go.
It was still dark as midnight, and the thick snowflakes were sifting down--everything was so
silent that he could hear the rustle of them as they fell. In the few seconds that he stood
there hesitating he was covered white.

He set off at a run for the yards, stopping by the way to inquire in the saloons that were
open. Ona might have been overcome on the way; or else she might have met with an accident
in the machines. When he got to the place where she worked he inquired of one of the watchmen--there
had not been any accident, so far as the man had heard. At the time office, which he found
already open, the clerk told him that Ona's check had been turned in the night before, showing
that she had left her work.

After that there was nothing for him to do but wait, pacing back and forth in the snow, meantime,
to keep from freezing. Already the yards were full of activity; cattle were being unloaded
from the cars in the distance, and across the way the "beef-luggers" were toiling in the darkness,
carrying two-hundred-pound quarters of bullocks into the refrigerator cars. Before the first
streaks of daylight there came the crowding throngs of workingmen, shivering, and swinging
their dinner pails as they hurried by. Jurgis took up his stand by the time-office window,
where alone there was light enough for him to see; the snow fell so quick that it was only
by peering closely that he could make sure that Ona did not pass him.

Seven o'clock came, the hour when the great packing machine began to move. Jurgis ought to
have been at his place in the fertilizer mill; but instead he was waiting, in an agony of fear,
for Ona. It was fifteen minutes after the hour when he saw a form emerge from the snow mist,
and sprang toward it with a cry. It was she, running swiftly; as she saw him, she staggered
forward, and half fell into his outstretched arms.

"What has been the matter?" he cried, anxiously. "Where have you been?"

It was several seconds before she could get breath to answer him. "I couldn't get home," she
exclaimed. "The snow--the cars had stopped."

"But where were you then?" he demanded.

"I had to go home with a friend," she panted--"with Jadvyga."

Jurgis drew a deep breath; but then he noticed that she was sobbing and trembling--as if in
one of those nervous crises that he dreaded so. "But what's the matter?" he cried. "What has
happened?"

"Oh, Jurgis, I was so frightened!" she said, clinging to him wildly. "I have been so worried!"

They were near the time station window, and people were staring at them. Jurgis led her away.
"How do you mean?" he asked, in perplexity.

"I was afraid--I was just afraid!" sobbed Ona. "I knew you wouldn't know where I was, and I
didn't know what you might do. I tried to get home, but I was so tired. Oh, Jurgis, Jurgis!"

He was so glad to get her back that he could not think clearly about anything else. It did
not seem strange to him that she should be so very much upset; all her fright and incoherent
protestations did not matter since he had her back. He let her cry away her tears; and then,
because it was nearly eight o'clock, and they would lose another hour if they delayed, he left
her at the packing house door, with her ghastly white face and her haunted eyes of terror.

There was another brief interval. Christmas was almost come; and because the snow still held,
and the searching cold, morning after morning Jurgis hall carried his wife to her post, staggering
with her through the darkness; until at last, one night, came the end.

It lacked but three days of the holidays. About midnight Marija and Elzbieta came home, exclaiming
in alarm when they found that Ona had not come. The two had agreed to meet her; and, after
waiting, had gone to the room where she worked; only to find that the ham-wrapping girls had
quit work an hour before, and left. There was no snow that night, nor was it especially cold;
and still Ona had not come! Something more serious must be wrong this time.

They aroused Jurgis, and he sat up and listened crossly to the story. She must have gone home
again with Jadvyga, he said; Jadvyga lived only two blocks from the yards, and perhaps she
had been tired. Nothing could have happened to her--and even if there had, there was nothing
could be done about it until morning. It is no answer to say that such a delegation would not
be made, the question is, whether it could be made, without violating
the Constitution of the country?

I insist that it could not; and that if the Legislature of New York were to authorize our friend the
Emperor Alexander, or our excellent neighbor the Governor-General of Canada, to appoint the
thirty-five presidential electors to which New York is entitled in the sum total of the electoral
colleges, and the electors thus appointed were to receive the certificate of the Governor of
New York, and to meet, vote, and transmit their certificates to Washington, the votes might be lawfully
rejected.

Such an occurrence is in the highest degree improbable; but stranger things than that have
happened.

The Empress Catharine intervened in the election of the kings of
Poland, and the interference led to the downfall of the government
and the blotting of the country from the map of Europe.

Indeed, I venture to express my belief, that such an intervention of foreign influence in our
elections would have been hardly more startling to the imaginations of our fathers than the
spectacle which our own eyes have seen; federal soldiers removing
representatives from the Capitol of one State, and stationed at the
doors of another, to inspect the certificates of members elected to
its Legislature.

Not to go abroad, however, for illustrations, let us suppose that
the General Court convened in the State-House at Boston were to depute
the State of New York or the State of Virginia to appoint electors
for the State of Massachusetts, no man would be wild enough to pronounce
such a deputation valid.

It should seem to be certain, for a reason hardly less satisfactory,
that the Legislature of Massachusetts could not authorize the Mayor
of Boston or the town council of Worcester to appoint her electors;
and, if that be so, and the rule is to prevail that, in law, what
cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly, it should follow
that the State could not delegate to any other agency the power of
appointment.

If a body called a returning board be so constituted as that, in
certain contingencies, it may depart from the inquiry what votes have
been cast, and cast the votes itself, or by any sort of contrivance
do the same thing under a different name, or by a roundabout process,
it is, to that extent, an unlawful body under the Federal Constitution.

Assuming, then, that a returning board has among its functions that
of rejecting the votes in particular districts, for the reason either
that they were affected by undue influence, or that other voters were
led by like influence to refrain from voting, can such a function
be valid under the Constitution of the United States?

There is no question were of throwing out particular votes for vices inherent in themselves, such
as that they were illegible, or were cast by disqualified persons,
and the like; but the question is of rejecting the votes of a certain
number--say a thousand voters--either because they were unduly influenced,
or because another thousand, who might have voted, were, by undue
influences, prevented from voting at all.

Whatever may be the law of a State in respect to the choice of its own officers, it seems most
reasonable to hold that, under that common Constitution which governs
and provides for all the States alike, when the only legitimate inquiry
is whom has a particular State appointed, in the manner directed by
its Legislature, and the Legislature has directed the appointment
to be made by a general election, that is, by the votes of all qualified
persons, the only valid office of a returning board must be to ascertain
and declare how the State has actually voted, not how it might or
would have voted under other circumstances, or, in other words, what
is the number of legal votes actually cast; not how many have been
unduly influenced, or how many other votes would have been cast in
a different state of affairs.

I use the expression undue influence, as more comprehensive than riot, bribery, or intimidation,
and including other forms of improper influence, such as that of
capital over labor.

The question should be put in a general form to be correctly answered, because there is nothing
in intimidation by violence which would make it a good cause for exclusion, more than that other
kind of intimidation, which is social or financial. If, in ascertaining the state of the vote, it
be lawful to inquire whether certain voters were frightened by a
rifle-club to stay away from the polls, or to vote as the club dictated,
it must also be lawful to inquire whether the same number of voters
were induced to vote or not to vote by fear that their discounts might
be lessened at the village bank, or their employment discontinued
at the neighboring factory.

 For a whole block he tore after the car, only a little ways behind.
That rusty black hat with the drooping red flower, it might not be Ona's, but there was very
little likelihood of it. He would know for certain very soon, for she would get out two blocks
ahead. He slowed down, and let the car go on.

She got out: and as soon as she was out of sight on the side street Jurgis broke into a run.
Suspicion was rife in him now, and he was not ashamed to shadow her: he saw her turn the corner
near their home, and then he ran again, and saw her as she went up the porch steps of the house.
After that he turned back, and for five minutes paced up and down, his hands clenched tightly
and his lips set, his mind in a turmoil. Then he went home and entered.

As he opened the door, he saw Elzbieta, who had also been looking for Ona, and had come home
again. She was now on tiptoe, and had a finger on her lips. Jurgis waited until she was close
to him.

"Don't make any noise," she whispered, hurriedly.

"What's the matter'?" he asked. "Ona is asleep," she panted. "She's been very ill. I'm afraid
her mind's been wandering, Jurgis. She was lost on the street all night, and I've only just
succeeded in getting her quiet."

"When did she come in?" he asked.

"Soon after you left this morning," said Elzbieta.

"And has she been out since?" "No, of course not. She's so weak, Jurgis, she--"

And he set his teeth hard together. "You are lying to me," he said.

Elzbieta started, and turned pale. "Why!" she gasped. "What do you mean?"

But Jurgis did not answer. He pushed her aside, and strode to the bedroom door and opened it.

Ona was sitting on the bed. She turned a startled look upon him as he entered. He closed the
door in Elzbieta's face, and went toward his wife. "Where have you been?" he demanded.

She had her hands clasped tightly in her lap, and he saw that her face was as white as paper,
and drawn with pain. She gasped once or twice as she tried to answer him, and then began, speaking
low, and swiftly. "Jurgis, I--I think I have been out of my mind. I started to come last night,
and I could not find the way. I walked--I walked all night, I think, and--and I only got home--this
morning."

"You needed a rest," he said, in a hard tone. "Why did you go out again?"

He was looking her fairly in the face, and he could read the sudden fear and wild uncertainty
that leaped into her eyes. "I--I had to go to--to the store," she gasped, almost in a whisper,
"I had to go--"

"You are lying to me," said Jurgis. Then he clenched his hands and took a step toward her.
"Why do you lie to me?" he cried, fiercely. "What are you doing that you have to lie to me?"

"Jurgis!" she exclaimed, starting up in fright. "Oh, Jurgis, how can you?"

"You have lied to me, I say!" he cried. "You told me you had been to Jadvyga's house that other
night, and you hadn't. You had been where you were last night--somewheres downtown, for I saw
you get off the car. Where were you?"

It was as if he had struck a knife into her. She seemed to go all to pieces. For half a second
she stood, reeling and swaying, staring at him with horror in her eyes; then, with a cry of
anguish, she tottered forward, stretching out her arms to him. But he stepped aside, deliberately,
and let her fall. She caught herself at the side of the bed, and then sank down, burying her
face in her hands and bursting into frantic weeping.

There came one of those hysterical crises that had so often dismayed him. Ona sobbed and wept,
her fear and anguish building themselves up into long climaxes. Furious gusts of emotion would
come sweeping over her, shaking her as the tempest shakes the trees upon the hills; all her
frame would quiver and throb with them--it was as if some dreadful thing rose up within her
and took possession of her, torturing her, tearing her. This thing had been wont to set Jurgis
quite beside himself; but now he stood with his lips set tightly and his hands clenched--she
might weep till she killed herself, but she should not move him this time--not an inch, not
an inch. Because the sounds she made set his blood to running cold and his lips to quivering
in spite of himself, he was glad of the diversion when Teta Elzbieta, pale with fright, opened
the door and rushed in; yet he turned upon her with an oath. "Go out!" he cried, "go out!"
And then, as she stood hesitating, about to speak, he seized her by the arm, and half flung
her from the room, slamming the door and barring it with a table. Then he turned again and
faced Ona, crying--"Now, answer me!"

Yet she did not hear him--she was still in the grip of the fiend. Jurgis could see her outstretched
hands, shaking and twitching, roaming here and there over the bed at will, like living things;
he could see convulsive shudderings start in her body and run through her limbs. She was sobbing
and choking--it was as if there were too many sounds for one throat, they came chasing each
other, like waves upon the sea. Then her voice would begin to rise into screams, louder and
louder until it broke in wild, horrible peals of laughter. Jurgis bore it until he could bear
it no longer, and then he sprang at her, seizing her by the shoulders and shaking her, shouting
into her ear: "Stop it, I say! Stop it!"

She looked up at him, out of her agony; then she fell forward at his feet. She caught them
in her hands, in spite of his efforts to step aside, and with her face upon the floor lay writhing.
It made a choking in Jurgis' throat to hear her, and he cried again, more savagely than before:
"Stop it, I say!"

This time she heeded him, and caught her breath and lay silent, save for the gasping sobs that
wrenched all her frame. For a long minute she lay there, perfectly motionless, until a cold
fear seized her husband, thinking that she was dying. Suddenly, however, he heard her voice,
faintly: "Jurgis! Jurgis!"

"What is it?" he said.

He had to bend down to her, she was so weak. She was pleading with him, in broken phrases,
painfully uttered: "Have faith in me! Believe me!"

"Believe what?" he cried.

"Believe that I--that I know best--that I love you! And do not ask me--what you did. Oh, Jurgis,
please, please! It is for the best--it is--"

He started to speak again, but she rushed on frantically, heading him off. "If you will only
do it! If you will only--only believe me! It wasn't my fault--I couldn't help it--it will be
all right--it is nothing--it is no harm. Oh, Jurgis--please, please!"

She had hold of him, and was trying to raise herself to look at him; he could feel the palsied
shaking of her hands and the heaving of the bosom she pressed against him. She managed to catch
one of his hands and gripped it convulsively, drawing it to her face, and bathing it in her
tears. "Oh, believe me, believe me!" she wailed again; and he shouted in fury, "I will not!"

But still she clung to him, wailing aloud in her despair: "Oh, Jurgis, think what you are doing!
It will ruin us--it will ruin us! Oh, no, you must not do it! No, don't, don't do it. You must
not do it! It will drive me mad--it will kill me--no, no, Jurgis, I am crazy--it is nothing.
You do not really need to know. We can be happy--we can love each other just the same. Oh,
please, please, believe me!"

Her words fairly drove him wild. He tore his hands loose, and flung her off. "Answer me," he
cried. "God damn it, I say--answer me!"

She sank down upon the floor, beginning to cry again. It was like listening to the moan of
a damned soul, and Jurgis could not stand it. He smote his fist upon the table by his side,
and shouted again at her, "Answer me!"

She began to scream aloud, her voice like the voice of some wild beast: "Ah! Ah! I can't! I
can't do it!"

"Why can't you do it?" he shouted.

"I don't know how!"

He sprang and caught her by the arm, lifting her up, and glaring into her face. "Tell me where
you were last night!" he panted. "Quick, out with it!"

Then she began to whisper, one word at a time: "I--was in--a house--downtown--"

"What house? What do you mean?"

She tried to hide her eyes away, but he held her. "Miss Henderson's house," she gasped. He
did not understand at first. "Miss Henderson's house," he echoed. And then suddenly, as in
an explosion, the horrible truth burst over him, and he reeled and staggered back with a scream.
He caught himself against the wall, and put his hand to his forehead, staring about him, and
whispering, "Jesus! Jesus!"

An instant later he leaped at her, as she lay groveling at his feet. He seized her by the throat.
"Tell me!" he gasped, hoarsely. "Quick! Who took you to that place?"

She tried to get away, making him furious; he thought it was fear, of the pain of his clutch--he
did not understand that it was the agony of her shame. Still she answered him, "Connor."

"Connor," he gasped. "Who is Connor?"

"The boss," she answered. "The man--"

He tightened his grip, in his frenzy, and only when he saw her eyes closing did he realize
that he was choking her. Then he relaxed his fingers, and crouched, waiting, until she opened
her lids again. His breath beat hot into her face.

"Tell me," he whispered, at last, "tell me about it."

She lay perfectly motionless, and he had to hold his breath to catch her words. "I did not
want--to do it," she said; "I tried--I tried not to do it. I only did it--to save us. It was
our only chance."

Again, for a space, there was no sound but his panting. Ona's eyes closed and when she spoke
again she did not open them. "He told me--he would have me turned off. He told me he would--we
would all of us lose our places. We could never get anything to do--here--again. He--he meant
it--he would have ruined us."

Jurgis' arms were shaking so that he could scarcely hold himself up, and lurched forward now
and then as he listened. "When--when did this begin?" he gasped.

"At the very first," she said. She spoke as if in a trance. "It was all--it was their plot--Miss
Henderson's plot. She hated me. And he--he wanted me. He used to speak to me--out on the platform.
Then he began to--to make love to me. He offered me money. He begged me--he said he loved me.
Then he threatened me. He knew all about us, he knew we would starve. He knew your boss--he
knew Marija's. He would hound us to death, he said--then he said if I would--if I--we would
all of us be sure of work--always. Then one day he caught hold of me--he would not let go--he--he--"

"Where was this?"

"In the hallway--at night--after every one had gone. I could not help it. I thought of you--of
the baby--of mother and the children. I was afraid of him--afraid to cry out."

A moment ago her face had been ashen gray, now it was scarlet. She was beginning to breathe
hard again. Jurgis made not a sound.

"That was two months ago. Then he wanted me to come--to that house. He wanted me to stay there.
He said all of us--that we would not have to work. He made me come there--in the evenings.
I told you--you thought I was at the factory. Then--one night it snowed, and I couldn't get
back. And last night--the cars were stopped. It was such a little thing--to ruin us all. I
tried to walk, but I couldn't. I didn't want you to know. It would have--it would have been
all right. We could have gone on--just the same--you need never have known about it. He was
getting tired of me--he would have let me alone soon. I am going to have a baby--I am getting
ugly. He told me that--twice, he told me, last night. He kicked me--last night--too. And now
you will kill him--you--you will kill him--and we shall die."

All this she had said without a quiver; she lay still as death, not an eyelid moving. And Jurgis,
too, said not a word. He lifted himself by the bed, and stood up. He did not stop for another
glance at her, but went to the door and opened it. He did not see Elzbieta, crouching terrified
in the corner. He went out, hatless, leaving the street door open behind him. The instant his
feet were on the sidewalk he broke into a run.

He ran like one possessed, blindly, furiously, looking neither to the right nor left. He was
on Ashland Avenue before exhaustion compelled him to slow down, and then, noticing a car, he
made a dart for it and drew himself aboard. His eyes were wild and his hair flying, and he
was breathing hoarsely, like a wounded bull; but the people on the car did not notice this
particularly--perhaps it seemed natural to them that a man who smelled as Jurgis smelled should
exhibit an aspect to correspond. They began to give way before him as usual. The conductor
took his nickel gingerly, with the tips of his fingers, and then left him with the platform
to himself. Jurgis did not even notice it--his thoughts were far away. Within his soul it was
like a roaring furnace; he stood waiting, waiting, crouching as if for a spring.

He had some of his breath back when the car came to the entrance of the yards, and so he leaped
off and started again, racing at full speed. People turned and stared at him, but he saw no
one--there was the factory, and he bounded through the doorway and down the corridor. He knew
the room where Ona worked, and he knew Connor, the boss of the loading-gang outside. He looked
for the man as he sprang into the room.

The truckmen were hard at work, loading the freshly packed boxes and barrels upon the cars.
Jurgis shot one swift glance up and down the platform--the man was not on it. But then suddenly
he heard a voice in the corridor, and started for it with a bound. In an instant more he fronted
the boss.

He was a big, red-faced Irishman, coarse-featured, and smelling of liquor. He saw Jurgis as
he crossed the threshold, and turned white. He hesitated one second, as if meaning to run;
and in the next his assailant was upon him. He put up his hands to protect his face, but Jurgis,
lunging with all the power of his arm and body, struck him fairly between the eyes and knocked
him backward. The next moment he was on top of him, burying his fingers in his throat.

To Jurgis this man's whole presence reeked of the crime he had committed; the touch of his
body was madness to him--it set every nerve of him atremble, it aroused all the demon in his
soul. It had worked its will upon Ona, this great beast--and now he had it, he had it! It was
his turn now! Things swam blood before him, and he screamed aloud in his fury, lifting his
victim and smashing his head upon the floor.

The place, of course, was in an uproar; women fainting and shrieking, and men rushing in. Jurgis
was so bent upon his task that he knew nothing of this, and scarcely realized that people were
trying to interfere with him; it was only when half a dozen men had seized him by the legs
and shoulders and were pulling at him, that he understood that he was losing his prey. In a
flash he had bent down and sunk his teeth into the man's cheek; and when they tore him away
he was dripping with blood, and little ribbons of skin were hanging in his mouth.

They got him down upon the floor, clinging to him by his arms and legs, and still they could
hardly hold him. He fought like a tiger, writhing and twisting, half flinging them off, and
starting toward his unconscious enemy. But yet others rushed in, until there was a little mountain
of twisted limbs and bodies, heaving and tossing, and working its way about the room. In the
end, by their sheer weight, they choked the breath out of him, and then they carried him to
the company police station, where he lay still until they had summoned a patrol wagon to take
him away.

Chapter 16

When Jurgis got up again he went quietly enough. He was exhausted and half-dazed, and besides
he saw the blue uniforms of the policemen. He drove in a patrol wagon with half a dozen of
them watching him; keeping as far away as possible, however, on account of the fertilizer.
Then he stood before the sergeant's desk and gave his name and address, and saw a charge of
assault and battery entered against him. On his way to his cell a burly policeman cursed him
because he started down the wrong corridor, and then added a kick when he was not quick enough;
nevertheless, Jurgis did not even lift his eyes--he had lived two years and a half in Packingtown,
and he knew what the police were. Miller (1955a:170) remarked that T. c. celsum was a scarce resident
of the desert scrub at the mouth of Boquillas Canyon of the Sierra del Carmen.

This subspecies of the Curve-billed Thrasher occurs in eastern and southern Coahuila. Amadon
and Phillips (1947:578) took a Curve-billed Thrasher twenty miles
west of Saltillo that had an enlarged ovary and a brood patch still
somewhat evident on August 27.

Burleigh and Lowery (1942:199) stated that T. c. oberholseri "was rather widely and commonly
distributed, being noted from the area about the summit of Diamante
Pass at 7,800 feet down to the desert country about Saltillo."

Miller, Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore (1957:177) recorded T. c. oberholseri
from Sabinas, from 8 mi. S Cuatro Ciénegas, and from El Diamante.
He had done up the scoundrel pretty well--not as well as he would have if they had given him
a minute more, but pretty well, all the same; the ends of his fingers were still tingling from
their contact with the fellow's throat. But then, little by little, as his strength came back
and his senses cleared, he began to see beyond his momentary gratification; that he had nearly
killed the boss would not help Ona--not the horrors that she had borne, nor the memory that
would haunt her all her days. It would not help to feed her and her child; she would certainly
lose her place, while he--what was to happen to him God only knew.

Half the night he paced the floor, wrestling with this nightmare; and when he was exhausted
he lay down, trying to sleep, but finding instead, for the first time in his life, that his
brain was too much for him. In the cell next to him was a drunken wife-beater and in the one
beyond a yelling maniac. At midnight they opened the station house to the homeless wanderers
who were crowded about the door, shivering in the winter blast, and they thronged into the
corridor outside of the cells. Some of them stretched themselves out on the bare stone floor
and fell to snoring, others sat up, laughing and talking, cursing and quarreling. The air was
fetid with their breath, yet in spite of this some of them smelled Jurgis and called down the
torments of hell upon him, while he lay in a far corner of his cell, counting the throbbings
of the blood in his forehead.

They had brought him his supper, which was "duffers and dope"--being hunks of dry bread on
a tin plate, and coffee, called "dope" because it was drugged to keep the prisoners quiet.
Jurgis had not known this, or he would have swallowed the stuff in desperation; as it was,
every nerve of him was aquiver with shame and rage. Toward morning the place fell silent, and
he got up and began to pace his cell; and then within the soul of him there rose up a fiend,
red-eyed and cruel, and tore out the strings of his heart.

It was not for himself that he suffered--what did a man who worked in Durham's fertilizer mill
care about anything that the world might do to him! Van Hoose (1955:302) remarked that No. 31619,
the skull of which was incompletely ossified, "represents the northernmost record for this
species, which was previously unknown in Coahuila."

The Hermit Thrush is a common migrant or winter visitant in Coahuila. H. g. guttata has been reported
from northern Coahuila. Miller (1955a:171) observed H. g. guttata
(and H. g. auduboni) in the Douglas fir and pine-oak belts and in
the lower levels in the oaks at the foot of the Sierra del Carmen. Ah, if only he could have foreseen it--but
then, he would have foreseen it, if he had not been a fool! He smote his hands upon his forehead,
cursing himself because he had ever allowed Ona to work where she had, because he had not stood
between her and a fate which every one knew to be so common. He should have taken her away,
even if it were to lie down and die of starvation in the gutters of Chicago's streets! And
now--oh, it could not be true; it was too monstrous, too horrible.

It was a thing that could not be faced; a new shuddering seized him every time he tried to
think of it. No, there was no bearing the load of it, there was no living under it. There would
be none for her--he knew that he might pardon her, might plead with her on his knees, but she
would never look him in the face again, she would never be his wife again. The shame of it
would kill her--there could be no other deliverance, and it was best that she should die.

