But one must be allowed to suspect that M. Bourget was a little to blame himself. Even a practical
joker has some little judgment. He has to exercise some degree of sagacity in selecting his
prey if he would save himself from getting into trouble. In my time I have seldom seen such
daring things marketed at any price as these conscienceless folk have worked off at par on
this confiding observer. It compels the conviction that there was something about him that
bred in those speculators a quite unusual sense of safety, and encouraged them to strain their
powers in his behalf. They seem to have satisfied themselves that all he wanted was "significant"
facts, and that he was not accustomed to examine the source whence they proceeded. It is plain
that there was a sort of conspiracy against him almost from the start--a conspiracy to freight
him up with all the strange extravagances those people's decayed brains could invent.

The lengths to which they went are next to incredible. They told him things which surely would
have excited any one else's suspicion, but they did not excite his. Consider this:

          "There is not in all the United States an entirely nude
          statue."

If an angel should come down and say such a thing about heaven, a reasonably cautious observer
would take that angel's number and inquire a little further before he added it to his catch.
What does the present observer do? Adds it. Adds it at once. Adds it, and labels it with this
innocent comment:

          "This small fact is strangely significant."

It does seem to me that this kind of observing is defective.

Here is another curiosity which some liberal person made him a present of. I should think it
ought to have disturbed the deep slumber of his suspicion a little, but it didn't. It was a
note from a fog-horn for strenuousness, it seems to me, but the doomed voyager did not catch
it. If he had but caught it, it would have saved him from several disasters:

          "If the American knows that you are traveling to take notes, he
          is interested in it, and at the same time rejoices in it, as in
          a tribute."

Again, this is defective observation. It is human to like to be praised; one can even notice
it in the French. But it is not human to like to be ridiculed, even when it comes in the form
of a "tribute." I think a little psychologizing ought to have come in there. Something like
this: A dog does not like to be ridiculed, a redskin does not like to be ridiculed, a negro
does not like to be ridiculed, a Chinaman does not like to be ridiculed; let us deduce from
these significant facts this formula: the American's grade being higher than these, and the
chain-of argument stretching unbroken all the way up to him, there is room for suspicion that
the person who said the American likes to be ridiculed, and regards it as a tribute, is not
a capable observer.

I feel persuaded that in the matter of psychologizing, a professional is too apt to yield to
the fascinations of the loftier regions of that great art, to the neglect of its lowlier walks.
Every now and then, at half-hour intervals, M. Bourget collects a hatful of airy inaccuracies
and dissolves them in a panful of assorted abstractions, and runs the charge into a mould and
turns you out a compact principle which will explain an American girl, or an American woman,
or why new people yearn for old things, or any other impossible riddle which a person wants
answered. I wonder what they are. Perhaps one of them is temperament. One speaks of French
vivacity and German gravity and English stubbornness. There is no American temperament. The
nearest that one can come at it is to say there are two--the composed Northern and the impetuous
Southern; and both are found in other countries. Morals? Purity of women may fairly be called
universal with us, but that is the case in some other countries. We have no monopoly of it;
it cannot be named American. I think that there is but a single specialty with us, only one
thing that can be called by the wide name "American." That is the national devotion to ice-water.
All Germans drink beer, but the British nation drinks beer, too; so neither of those peoples
is the beer-drinking nation. I suppose we do stand alone in having a drink that nobody likes
but ourselves. When we have been a month in Europe we lose our craving for it, and we finally
tell the hotel folk that they needn't provide it any more. Yet we hardly touch our native shore
again, winter or summer, before we are eager for it. The reasons for this state of things have
not been psychologized yet. I drop the hint and say no more. 

Macaulay, it will be noticed, admits that Ossian's Poems were admired by men of taste and of
genius. But it never seems to have occurred to him that this fact should have made him pause
and reconsider his opinions ere he expressed them in such a broad
and trenchant style. Ever
since I arrived in France this last time I have been accumulating doubts about that; and before
I leave this sunny land again I will gather in a few random statistics and psychologize the
plausibilities out of it. If people are to come over to America and find fault with our girls
and our women, and psychologize every little thing they do, and try to teach them how to behave,
and how to cultivate themselves up to where one cannot tell them from the French model, I intend
to find out whether those missionaries are qualified or not. A nation ought always to examine
into this detail before engaging the teacher for good. This last one has let fall a remark
which renewed those doubts of mine when I read it:

          "In our high Parisian existence, for instance, we find applied
          to arts and luxury, and to debauchery, all the powers and all
          the weaknesses of the French soul."

You see, it amounts to a trade with the French soul; a profession; a science; the serious business
of life, so to speak, in our high Parisian existence. I do not quite like the look of it. I
question if it can be taught with profit in our country, except, of course, to those pathetic,
neglected minds that are waiting there so yearningly for the education which M. Bourget is
going to furnish them from the serene summits of our high Parisian life.

I spoke a moment ago of the existence of some superstitions that have been parading the world
as facts this long time. For instance, consider the Dollar. The world seems to think that the
love of money is "American"; and that the mad desire to get suddenly rich is "American." I
believe that both of these things are merely and broadly human, not American monopolies at
all. The love of money is natural to all nations, for money is a good and strong friend. I
think that this love has existed everywhere, ever since the Bible called it the root of all evil.

I think that the reason why we Americans seem to be so addicted to trying to get rich suddenly
is merely because the opportunity to make promising efforts in that direction has offered itself
to us with a frequency out of all proportion to the European experience. For eighty years this
opportunity has been offering itself in one new town or region after another straight westward,
step by step, all the way from the Atlantic coast to the Pacific. When a mechanic could buy
ten town lots on tolerably long credit for ten months' savings out of his wages, and reasonably
expect to sell them in a couple of years for ten times what he gave for them, it was human
for him to try the venture, and he did it no matter what his nationality was. He would have
done it in Europe or China if he had had the same chance.

In the flush times in the silver regions a cook or any other humble worker stood a very good
chance to get rich out of a trifle of money risked in a stock deal; and that person promptly
took that risk, no matter what his or her nationality might be. I was there, and saw it.

But these opportunities have not been plenty in our Southern States; so there you have a prodigious
region where the rush for sudden wealth is almost an unknown thing--and has been, from the
beginning.

Europe has offered few opportunities for poor Tom, Dick, and Harry; but when she has offered
one, there has been no noticeable difference between European eagerness and American. England
saw this in the wild days of the Railroad King; France saw it in 1720--time of Law and the
Mississippi Bubble. I am sure I have never seen in the gold and silver mines any madness, fury,
frenzy to get suddenly rich which was even remotely comparable to that which raged in France
in the Bubble day. If I had a cyclopaedia here I could turn to that memorable case, and satisfy
nearly anybody that the hunger for the sudden dollar is no more "American" than it is French.
And if I could furnish an American opportunity to staid Germany, I think I could wake her up
like a house afire.

But I must return to the Generalizations, Psychologizings, Deductions. When M. Bourget is exploiting
these arts, it is then that he is peculiarly and particularly himself. His ways are wholly
original when he encounters a trait or a custom which is new to him. Another person would merely
examine the find, verify it, estimate its value, and let it go; but that is not sufficient
for M. Bourget: he always wants to know why that thing exists, he wants to know how it came
to happen; and he will not let go of it until he has found out. And in every instance he will
find that reason where no one but himself would have thought of looking for it. He does not
seem to care for a reason that is not picturesquely located; one might almost say picturesquely
and impossibly located.

He found out that in America men do not try to hunt down young married women. At once, as usual,
he wanted to know why. Any one could have told him. He could have divined it by the lights
thrown by the novels of the country. But no, he preferred to find out for himself. He has a
trustfulness as regards men and facts which is fine and unusual; he is not particular about
the source of a fact, he is not particular about the character and standing of the fact itself;
but when it comes to pounding out the reason for the existence of the fact, he will trust no
one but himself.

In the present instance here was his fact: American young married women are not pursued by
the corruptor; and here was the question: What is it that protects her?

It seems quite unlikely that that problem could have offered difficulties to any but a trained
philosopher. Nearly any person would have said to M. Bourget: "Oh, that is very simple. It
is very seldom in America that a marriage is made on a commercial basis; our marriages, from
the beginning, have been made for love; and where love is there is no room for the corruptor."

Now, it is interesting to see the formidable way in which M. Bourget went at that poor, humble
little thing. He moved upon it in column--three columns--and with artillery. 

He had forgotten all about his purposed journey to Weymouth.

One sole desire had possession of him to stand face to face with Sibyl, and to see her innocence,
rather than hear it, as soon as he had brought his tongue to repeat
that foul calumny. But I will not retreat now; I will condense them and print
them, giving my word that I am honest and not trying to deceive any one.

1. Young married women are protected from the approaches of the seducer in New England and
vicinity by the diluted remains of a prudence created by a Puritan law of two hundred years
ago, which for a while punished adultery with death.

2. And young married women of the other forty or fifty States are protected by laws which afford
extraordinary facilities for divorce.

If I have not lost my mind I have accurately conveyed those two Vesuvian irruptions of philosophy.
But the reader can consult Chapter IV. of 'Outre-Mer', and decide for himself. Let us examine
this paralyzing Deduction or Explanation by the light of a few sane facts.

1. This universality of "protection" has existed in our country from the beginning; before
the death penalty existed in New England, and during all the generations that have dragged
by since it was annulled.

2. Extraordinary facilities for divorce are of such recent creation that any middle-aged American
can remember a time when such things had not yet been thought of.

Let us suppose that the first easy divorce law went into effect forty years ago, and got noised
around and fairly started in business thirty-five years ago, when we had, say, 25,000,000 of
white population. Let us suppose that among 5,000,000 of them the young married women were
"protected" by the surviving shudder of that ancient Puritan scare--what is M. Bourget going
to do about those who lived among the 20,000,000? They were clean in their morals, they were
pure, yet there was no easy divorce law to protect them.

Awhile ago I said that M. Bourget's method of truth-seeking--hunting for it in out-of-the-way
places--was new; but that was an error. I remember that when Leverrier discovered the Milky
Way, he and the other astronomers began to theorize about it in substantially the same fashion
which M. Bourget employs in his seasonings about American social facts and their origin. Leverrier
advanced the hypothesis that the Milky Way was caused by gaseous protoplasmic emanations from
the field of Waterloo, which, ascending to an altitude determinable by their own specific gravity,
became luminous through the development and exposure--by the natural processes of animal decay--of
the phosphorus contained in them.

This theory was warmly complimented by Ptolemy, who, however, after much thought and research,
decided that he could not accept it as final. His own theory was that the Milky Way was an
emigration of lightning bugs; and he supported and reinforced this theorem by the well-known
fact that the locusts do like that in Egypt.

Giordano Bruno also was outspoken in his praises of Leverrier's important contribution to astronomical
science, and was at first inclined to regard it as conclusive; but later, conceiving it to
be erroneous, he pronounced against it, and advanced the hypothesis that the Milky Way was
a detachment or corps of stars which became arrested and held in 'suspenso suspensorum' by
refraction of gravitation while on the march to join their several constellations; a proposition
for which he was afterwards burned at the stake in Jacksonville, Illinois.

These were all brilliant and picturesque theories, and each was received with enthusiasm by
the scientific world; but when a New England farmer, who was not a thinker, but only a plain
sort of person who tried to account for large facts in simple ways, came out with the opinion
that the Milky Way was just common, ordinary stars, and was put where it was because God "wanted
to hev it so," the admirable idea fell perfectly flat.

As a literary artist, M. Bourget is as fresh and striking as he is as a scientific one. He
says, "Above all, I do not believe much in anecdotes."

Why? "In history they are all false"--a sufficiently broad statement--"in literature all libelous"--also
a sufficiently sweeping statement, coming from a critic who notes that we are "a people who
are peculiarly extravagant in our language--" and when it is a matter of social life, "almost
all biased." It seems to amount to stultification, almost. 'What do you imagine my income is,
Mrs. Rolfe?' came growlingly from him.

'I have no idea. You mean, I'm afraid'--Alma's voice fell upon its gentlest note--'that it doesn't
allow you to think of--of any change?'

'It ought not to allow me,' replied the other. 'I have about two hundred pounds a year, and
can't hope much more for a long time.'

'And that,' exclaimed Alma, 'seems to you insufficient? I should have
thought in a little town--so far away--Oh! you want to surround yourself
with luxuries----'

'I don't!--I beg your pardon, Mrs. Rolfe, I meant
to say that you surely know me better.' His hand trembled and spilt
the tea, which he had not yet touched. 'But how can you suppose that--that
anyone----?'

He turned his face to the fire, the light of which made
his eyes glare fiercely. And he sets himself the task of explaining--in a couple of columns--the process
by which Easy-Divorce conceived, invented, originated, developed, and perfected an empire-embracing
condition of sexual purity in the States. IN 40 YEARS. No, he doesn't state the interval. With
all his passion for statistics he forgot to ask how long it took to produce this gigantic miracle.

I have followed his pleasant but devious trail through those columns, but I was not able to
get hold of his argument and find out what it was. I was not even able to find out where it
left off. It seemed to gradually dissolve and flow off into other matters. I followed it with
interest, for I was anxious to learn how easy-divorce eradicated adultery in America, but I
was disappointed; I have no idea yet how it did it. I only know it didn't. But that is not
valuable; I knew it before.

Well, humor is the great thing, the saving thing, after all. The minute it crops up, all our
hardnesses yield, all our irritations and resentments flit away, and a sunny spirit takes their
place. And so, when M. Bourget said that bright thing about our grandfathers, I broke all up.
I remember exploding its American countermine once, under that grand hero, Napoleon. He was
only First Consul then, and I was Consul-General--for the United States, of course; but we
were very intimate, notwithstanding the difference in rank, for I waived that. One day something
offered the opening, and he said:

"Well, General, I suppose life can never get entirely dull to an American, because whenever
he can't strike up any other way to put in his time he can always get away with a few years
trying to find out who his grandfather was!"

I fairly shouted, for I had never heard it sound better; and then I was back at him as quick
as a flash--"Right, your Excellency! But I reckon a Frenchman's got his little stand-by for
a dull time, too; because when all other interests fail he can turn in and see if he can't
find out who his father was!"

Well, you should have heard him just whoop, and cackle, and carry on! He reached up and hit
me one on the shoulder, and says:

"Land, but it's good! It's immensely good! George, I never heard it said so good in my life
before! Say it again."

So I said it again, and he said his again, and I said mine again, and then he did, and then
I did, and then he did, and we kept on doing it, and doing it, and I never had such a good
time, and he said the same. In my opinion there isn't anything that is as killing as one of
those dear old ripe pensioners if you know how to snatch it out in a kind of a fresh sort of
original way.

But I wish M. Bourget had read more of our novels before he came. It is the only way to thoroughly
understand a people. When I found I was coming to Paris, I read 'La Terre'.

A LITTLE NOTE TO M. PAUL BOURGET

          [The preceding squib was assailed in the North American Review
          in an article entitled "Mark Twain and Paul Bourget," by Max
          O'Rell.  The following little note is a Rejoinder to that
          article.  It is possible that the position assumed here--that
          M. Bourget dictated the O'Rell article himself--is untenable.]

You have every right, my dear M. Bourget, to retort upon me by dictation, if you prefer that
method to writing at me with your pen; but if I may say it without hurt--and certainly I mean
no offence--I believe you would have acquitted yourself better with the pen. With the pen you
are at home; it is your natural weapon; you use it with grace, eloquence, charm, persuasiveness,
when men are to be convinced, and with formidable effect when they have earned a castigation.
But I am sure I see signs in the above article that you are either unaccustomed to dictating
or are out of practice. If you will re-read it you will notice, yourself, that it lacks definiteness;
that it lacks purpose; that it lacks coherence; that it lacks a subject to talk about; that
it is loose and wabbly; that it wanders around; that it loses itself early and does not find
itself any more. There are some other defects, as you will notice, but I think I have named
the main ones. I feel sure that they are all due to your lack of practice in dictating.

Inasmuch as you had not signed it I had the impression at first that you had not dictated it.
But only for a moment. Certain quite simple and definite facts reminded me that the article
had to come from you, for the reason that it could not come from any one else without a specific
invitation from you or from me. I mean, it could not except as an intrusion, a transgression
of the law which forbids strangers to mix into a private dispute between friends, unasked.

Those simple and definite facts were these: I had published an article in this magazine, with
you for my subject; just you yourself; I stuck strictly to that one subject, and did not interlard
any other. No one, of course, could call me to account but you alone, or your authorized representative.
I asked some questions--asked them of myself. I answered them myself. My article was thirteen
pages long, and all devoted to you; devoted to you, and divided up in this way: one page of
guesses as to what subjects you would instruct us in, as teacher; one page of doubts as to
the effectiveness of your method of examining us and our ways; two or three pages of criticism
of your method, and of certain results which it furnished you; two or three pages of attempts
to show the justness of these same criticisms; half a dozen pages made up of slight fault-findings
with certain minor details of your literary workmanship, of extracts from your 'Outre-Mer'
and comments upon them; then I closed with an anecdote. I repeat--for certain reasons--that
I closed with an anecdote.

When I was asked by this magazine if I wished to "answer" a "reply" to that article of mine,
I said "yes," and waited in Paris for the proof-sheets of the "reply" to come. I already knew,
by the cablegram, that the "reply" would not be signed by you, but upon reflection I knew it
would be dictated by you, because no volunteer would feel himself at liberty to assume your
championship in a private dispute, unasked, in view of the fact that you are quite well able
to take care of your matters of that sort yourself and are not in need of any one's help. No,
a volunteer could not make such a venture. It would be too immodest. Also too gratuitously
generous. And a shade too self-sufficient. No, he could not venture it. It would look too much
like anxiety to get in at a feast where no plate had been provided for him. In fact he could
not get in at all, except by the back way, and with a false key; that is to say, a pretext--a
pretext invented for the occasion by putting into my mouth words which I did not use, and by
wresting sayings of mine from their plain and true meaning. Would he resort to methods like
those to get in? No; there are no people of that kind. So then I knew for a certainty that
you dictated the Reply yourself. I knew you did it to save yourself manual labor.

And you had the right, as I have already said and I am content--perfectly content.

Yet it would have been little trouble to you, and a great kindness to me, if you had written
your Reply all out with your own capable hand.

Because then it would have replied--and that is really what a Reply is for. Broadly speaking,
its function is to refute--as you will easily concede. That leaves something for the other
person to take hold of: he has a chance to reply to the Reply, he has a chance to refute the
refutation. This would have happened if you had written it out instead of dictating. Dictating
is nearly sure to unconcentrate the dictator's mind, when he is out of practice, confuse him,
and betray him into using one set of literary rules when he ought to use a quite different
set. Often it betrays him into employing the RULES FOR CONVERSATION BETWEEN A SHOUTER AND A
DEAF PERSON--as in the present case--when he ought to employ the RULES FOR CONDUCTING DISCUSSION
WITH A FAULT-FINDER. The great foundation-rule and basic principle of discussion with a fault-finder
is relevancy and concentration upon the subject; whereas the great foundation-rule and basic
principle governing conversation between a shouter and a deaf person is irrelevancy and persistent
desertion of the topic in hand. If I may be allowed to illustrate by quoting example IV., section
from chapter ix. of "Revised Rules for Conducting Conversation between a Shouter and a Deaf
Person," it will assist us in getting a clear idea of the difference between the two sets of rules:

Shouter. Did you say his name is WETHERBY?

Deaf Person. Change? Yes, I think it will. Though if it should clear off I--

Shouter. It's his NAME I want--his NAME.

Deaf Person. Maybe so, maybe so; but it will only be a shower, I think.

Shouter. No, no, no!--you have quite misunderSTOOD me. If--

Deaf Person. Ah! GOOD morning; I am sorry you must go. But call again, and let me continue
to be of assistance to you in every way I can.

You see it is a perfect kodak of the article you have dictated. It is really curious and interesting
when you come to compare it with yours; in detail, with my former article to which it is a
Reply in your hand. I talk twelve pages about your American instruction projects, and your
doubtful scientific system, and your painstaking classification of nonexistent things, and
your diligence and zeal and sincerity, and your disloyal attitude towards anecdotes, and your
undue reverence for unsafe statistics and far facts that lack a pedigree; and you turn around
and come back at me with eight pages of weather.

I do not see how a person can act so. It is good of you to repeat, with change of language,
in the bulk of your rejoinder, so much of my own article, and adopt my sentiments, and make
them over, and put new buttons on; and I like the compliment, and am frank to say so; but agreeing
with a person cripples controversy and ought not to be allowed. It is weather; and of almost
the worst sort. It pleases me greatly to hear you discourse with such approval and expansiveness
upon my text:

"A foreigner can photograph the exteriors of a nation, but I think that is as far as he can
get. I think that no foreigner can report its interior;"--[And you say: "A man of average intelligence,
who has passed six months among a people, cannot express opinions that are worth jotting down,
but he can form impressions that are worth repeating. For my part, I think that foreigners'
impressions are more interesting than native opinions. After all, such impressions merely mean
'how the country struck the foreigner.'"]--which is a quite clear way of saying that a foreigner's
report is only valuable when it restricts itself to impressions. It pleases me to have you
follow my lead in that glowing way, but it leaves me nothing to combat. You should give me
something to deny and refute; I would do as much for you.

It pleases me to have you playfully warn the public against taking one of your books seriously.--[When
I published Jonathan and his Continent, I wrote in a preface addressed to Jonathan: "If ever
you should insist in seeing in this little volume a serious study of your country and of your
countrymen, I warn you that your world-wide fame for humor will be exploded."]--Because I used
to do that cunning thing myself in earlier days. I did it in a prefatory note to a book of
mine called Tom Sawyer.

                         NOTICE.
                              BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR
                              PER G. G., CHIEF OF ORDNANCE.

The kernel is the same in both prefaces, you see--the public must not take us too seriously.
If we remove that kernel we remove the life-principle, and the preface is a corpse. Yes, it
pleases me to have you use that idea, for it is a high compliment. But is leaves me nothing
to combat; and that is damage to me.

Am I seeming to say that your Reply is not a reply at all, M. Bourget? If so, I must modify
that; it is too sweeping. For you have furnished a general answer to my inquiry as to what
France through you--can teach us.--["What could France teach America!" exclaims Mark Twain.
France can teach America all the higher pursuits of life, and there is more artistic feeling
and refinement in a street of French workingmen than in many avenues inhabited by American
millionaires. She can teach her, not perhaps how to work, but how to rest, how to live, how
to be happy. She can teach her that the aim of life is not money-making, but that money-making
is only a means to obtain an end. She can teach her that wives are not expensive toys, but
useful partners, friends, and confidants, who should always keep men under their wholesome
influence by their diplomacy, their tact, their common-sense, without bumptiousness. These
qualities, added to the highest standard of morality (not angular and morose, but cheerful
morality), are conceded to Frenchwomen by whoever knows something of French life outside of
the Paris boulevards, and Mark Twain's ill-natured sneer cannot even so much as stain them.

I might tell Mark Twain that in France a man who was seen tipsy in his club would immediately
see his name canceled from membership. A man who had settled his fortune on his wife to avoid
meeting his creditors would be refused admission into any decent society. Many a Frenchman
has blown his brains out rather than declare himself a bankrupt. Now would Mark Twain remark
to this: 'An American is not such a fool: when a creditor stands in his way he closes his doors,
and reopens them the following day. When he has been a bankrupt three times he can retire from
business?']--It is a good answer.

