446. There is an inmost communication of the spirit with the breathing and with the beating
of the heart, the spirit's thought communicating with the breathing, and its affection, which
is of love, with the heart;{1} consequently when these two motions cease in the body there
is at once a separation. These two motions, the respiration of the lungs and the beating of
heart, are the very bond on the sundering of which the spirit is left to itself; and the body
being then deprived of the life of its spirit grows cold and begins to decay. This inmost communication
of the spirit of man is with the respiration and with the heart, because on these all vital
motions depend, not only in general but in every particular.{2}

  {Footnote 1} The heart corresponds to the will, thus to the
  affection which belongs to the love, while the respiration of
  the lungs corresponds to the understanding, thus to the thought
  (n. 3888). From this the "heart" in the Word signifies the will
  and love (n. 7542, 9050, 10336). The "soul" signifies
  understanding, faith, and truth; therefore "from the soul and
  from the heart" signifies what is from the understanding,
  faith, and truth, and what is from the will, love, and good (n.
  2930, 9050). The correspondence of the heart and lungs with the
  Greatest Man, or heaven (n. 3883-3895).

  {Footnote 2} The beating of the heart and the respiration of
  the lungs reign in the body throughout, and flow mutually into
  every part (n. 3887, 3889, 3890).

447. After the separation the spirit of man continues in the body for a short time, but only
until the heart's action has wholly ceased, which happens variously in accord with the diseased
condition that causes death, with some the motion of the heart continuing for some time, with
others not so long. As soon as this motion ceases the man is resuscitated; but this is done
by the Lord alone. Resuscitation means the drawing forth of the spirit from the body, and its
introduction into the spiritual world; this is commonly called the resurrection. The spirit
is not separated from the body until the motion of the heart has ceased, for the reason that
the heart corresponds to the affection of love, which is the very life of man, for it is from
love that everyone has vital heat;{1} consequently as long as this conjunction continues correspondence
continues, and thereby the life of the spirit in the body.

  {Footnote 1} Love is the being [esse] of the life of man (n.
  5002). Love is spiritual heat, and therefore the very vital
  itself of man (n. 1589, 2146, 3338, 4906, 7081-7086, 9954,
  10740). Affection is a continuation of love (n. 3938).

448. How this resuscitation is effected has both been told to me and shown to me in living
experience. The actual experience was granted to me that I might have a complete knowledge
of the process.

449. As to the senses of the body I was brought into a state of insensibility, thus nearly
into the state of the dying; but with the interior life and thought remaining unimpaired, in
order that I might perceive and retain in the memory the things that happened to me, and that
happen to those that are resuscitated from the dead. I perceived that the respiration of the
body was almost wholly taken away; but the interior respiration of the spirit went on in connection
with a slight and tacit respiration of the body. Then at first a communication of the pulse
of the heart with the celestial kingdom was established, because that kingdom corresponds to
the heart in man.{1} Angels from that kingdom were seen, some at a distance, and two sitting
near my head. Thus all my own affection was taken away although thought and perception continued.
[2] I was in this state for some hours. Then the spirits that were around me withdrew, thinking
that I was dead; and an aromatic odor like that of an embalmed body was perceived, for when
the celestial angels are present everything pertaining to the corpse is perceived as aromatic,
and when spirits perceive this they cannot approach; and in this way evil spirits are kept
away from man's spirit when he is being introduced into eternal life. The angels seated at
my head were silent, merely sharing their thoughts with mine; and when their thoughts are received
the angels know that the spirit of man is in a state in which it can be drawn forth from the
body. This sharing of their thoughts was effected by looking into my face, for in this way
in heaven thoughts are shared. [3] As my thought and perception continued, that I might know
and remember how resuscitation is effected, I perceived the angels first tried to ascertain
what my thought was, whether it was like the thought of those who are dying, which is usually
about eternal life; also that they wished to keep my mind in that thought. Afterwards I was
told that the spirit of man is held in its last thought when the body expires, until it returns
to the thoughts that are from its general or ruling affection in the world. Especially was
I permitted to see and feel that there was a pulling and drawing forth, as it were, of the
interiors of my mind, thus of my spirit, from the body; and I was told that this is from the
Lord, and that the resurrection is thus effected.

  {Footnote 1} The heart corresponds to the Lord's celestial
  kingdom, the lungs to His spiritual kingdom (n. 3635, 3886,
  3887).

450. The celestial angels who are with the one that is resuscitated do not withdraw from him,
because they love everyone; but when the spirit comes into such a state that he can no longer
be affiliated with celestial angels, he longs to get away from them. When this takes place
angels from the Lord's spiritual kingdom come, through whom is given the use of light; for
before this he saw nothing, but merely thought. I was shown how this is done. The angels appeared
to roll off, as it were, a coat from the left eye towards the bridge of the nose, that the
eye might be opened and be enabled to see. This is only an appearance, but to the spirit it
seemed to be really done. When the coat thus seems to have been rolled off there is a slight
sense of light, but very dim, like what is seen through the eyelids on first awakening from
sleep. To me this dim light took on a heavenly hue, but I was told afterwards that the color
varies. Then something is felt to be gently rolled off from the face, and when this is done
spiritual thought is awakened. This rolling off from the face is also an appearance, which
represents the spirit's passing from natural thought into spiritual thought. The angels are
extremely careful that only such ideas as savor of love shall proceed from the one resuscitated.
They now tell him that he is a spirit. When he has come into the enjoyment of light the spiritual
angels render to the new spirit every service he can possibly desire in that state; and teach
him about the things of the other life so far as he can comprehend them. But if he has no wish
to be taught the spirit longs to get away from the company of the angels. Nevertheless, the
angels do not withdraw from him, but he separates himself from them; for the angels love everyone,
and desire nothing so much as to render service, to teach, and to lead into heaven; this constitutes
their highest delight. When the spirit has thus withdrawn he is received by good spirits, and
as long as he continues in their company everything possible is done for him. But if he had
lived such a life in the world as would prevent his enjoying the company of the good he longs
to get away from the good, and this experience is repeated until he comes into association
with such as are in entire harmony with his life in the world; and with such he finds his own
life, and what is surprising, he then leads a life like that which he led in the world.

451. This opening state of man's life after death lasts only a few days. How he is afterwards
led from one state to another, and finally either into heaven or into hell, will be told in
what follows. This, too, I have been permitted to learn by much experience.

452. I have talked with some on the third day after their decease, when the process described
above (n. 449, 450) had been completed, especially with three whom I had known in the world,
to whom I mentioned that arrangements were now being made for burying their bodies; I said,
for burying them; on hearing which they were smitten with a kind of surprise, saying that they
were alive, and that the thing that had served them in the world was what was being buried. 

Red as scarlet, partly from anger and tasty surprise, Dona Mencia was hearing the speech of that
bold hearted boy. Despite its austerity, as tested and unblemished for twenty years, he felt
deep in his chest and he struggled to escape the notice frolic laughter so youthful impudence, but
finally won the austere conditions of the proud lady, and dismissed
the young man, saying: - Okay, kid, but better would be if your teacher
or your tutor I have taught less rhetoric and more restraint and circumspection
no disrespect to an illustrious lady should, and should also her household
servants.

Go and Make amends, and do so that I do not have to resort to painful lengths to put a stop to the
bold behavior you seem to brag rather to repent. He wanted to replicate the raptor, but the lady
was so imperious gesture of disgust and dismissal, and glared at him so terrible look in his
dark eyes, silenced him and threw him in the room as if you were
to shove materials.

III After being punished the young captive, and perhaps even more captive of his own courtesy and
reverence and affection he had inspired the lady with only her, was conducted during the ten days
that followed the correction more fulfilled, showing exemplary patience
suffering without complaint his sad and wearisome captivity.

The severe Dona Mencia meanwhile warned that tormented his soul sometimes
true repentance have employed for the severity on prey.

Beyond their own thought of him almost constantly, and was pleased to know how much they had earned their
rebuke, and how wisely the boy was driving. Then he remembered his face and all her gentle figure, who had
failed to deal with when I was in front of her. And by virtue of this memory came to be born
in his soul the most singular hallucination, the most curious and rare fantasy that can be dreamed.
Sought in vain out of his mind he dreams dangerous.
 [3] A spirit that has been loosed from the body or the spirit
in another man, is not visible in the human form to man, because the body's organ of sight,
or its eye, so far as it sees in the world, is a material organ, and what is material can see
only what is material, while what is spiritual sees what is spiritual. When, therefore, the
material part of the eye becomes darkened and is deprived of its cooperation with the spiritual,
the eye sees spirits in their own form, which is the human form, not only the spirits that
are in the spiritual world, but also the spirit of another man while it is yet in its body.

454. The form of the spirit is the human form because man is created in respect to his spirit
in the form of heaven, for all things of heaven and of the order of heaven are brought together
in the things that constitute the mind of man;{1} and from this comes his capacity to receive
intelligence and wisdom. Whether you say the capacity to receive intelligence and wisdom or
the capacity to receive heaven it is the same thing, as can be seen from what has been shown
about the light and heat of heaven (n. 126-140); the form of heaven (n. 200-212); the wisdom
of angels (n. 265-275); and in the chapter that the form of heaven as a whole and in part reflects
a single man (n. 59-77); and this by virtue of the Divine Human of the Lord, which is the source
of heaven and its form (n. 78-86).

455. That which has now been said can be understood by the rational man, for he can see it
from the connection of causes and from truths in their order; but it is not understood by a
man who is not rational, and for several reasons, the chief of which is that he has no desire
to understand it because it is opposed to the falsities that he has made his truths; and he
that is unwilling to understand for this reason has closed to his rational faculty the way
to heaven, although that way can still be opened whenever the will's resistance ceases (see
above, n. 424). That man is able to understand truths and be rational whenever he so wishes
has been made clear to me by much experience. Evil spirits that have become irrational in the
world by rejecting the Divine and the truths of the church, and confirming themselves against
them, have frequently been turned by Divine power towards those who were in the light of truth,
and they then comprehended all things as the angels did, and acknowledged them to be true,
and also that they comprehended them all. But the moment these spirits relapsed into themselves,
and turned back to the love of their will, they had no comprehension of truths and affirmed
the opposite. [2] I have also heard certain dwellers in hell saying that they knew and perceived
that which they did to be evil and that which they thought to be false; but that they were
unable to resist the delight of their love, that is, their will, and that it is their will
that drives their thought to see evil as good and falsity as truth. Evidently, then, those
that are in falsity from evil have the ability to understand and be rational, but have no wish
to; and they have no wish to for the reason that they have loved falsities more than truths,
because these agree with the evils in which they are. To love and to will is the same thing,
for what a man wills he loves, and what he loves he wills. [3] Because the state of men is
such that they are able to understand truths if they wish to, I have been permitted to confirm
spiritual truths, which are truths of heaven and the church, even by reasonings, and this in
order that the falsities by which the rational mind in many has been closed up may be dispersed
by reasonings, and thus the eye may perhaps in some degree be opened; for to confirm spiritual
goods by reasonings is permitted to all that are in truths. Who could ever understand the Word
from the sense of its letter, unless he saw from an enlightened reason the truths it contains?
Is not this the source of so many heresies from the same Word?{1}

  {Footnote 1} The truths of doctrine of the church derived from
  the Word must be the starting-point, and these must first be
  acknowledged, and afterwards it is permissible to consult
  knowledges (n. 6047). Thus it is permissible for those that are
  in an affirmative state towards the truths of faith to confirm
  them rationally by knowledges, but it is not permissible for
  those who are in a negative state (n. 2568, 2588, 4760, 6047).
  It is in accordance with Divine order to enter rationally from
  spiritual truths into knowledges, which are natural truths, but
  not to enter from the latter into the former, because spiritual
  influx into natural things is possible, but not natural or
  physical influx into spiritual things (n. 3219, 5119, 5259,
  5427, 5428, 5478, 6322, 9109, 9110).

456. That the spirit of man, when it has been loosed from the body, is still a man and in a
like form, has been proved to me by the daily experience of many years; for I have seen such
and have listened to them a thousand times, and have talked with them about this fact, that
men in the world do not believe them to be men, and that those that do believe this are regarded
by the learned as simple. Spirits are grieved at heart that such ignorance still continues
in the world, and above all within the church. [2] But this belief they said had emanated chiefly
from the learned, who had thought about the soul from ideas derived from bodily sense; and
from such ideas the only conception they formed of the soul was as being mere thought; and
when this is regarded apart from any subject as its containant and source it is merely a fleeting
breath of pure ether that must needs be dissipated when the body dies. But as the church believes
from the Word in the immortality of the soul they are compelled to ascribe to it something
vital, such as pertains to thought, but they deny to it any thing of sense, such as man possesses,
until it has again been joined to the body. On this opinion the doctrine in regard to the resurrection
is based, with the belief that the soul and body will be joined again at the time of the final
judgment. For this reason when any one thinks about the soul in accordance with this doctrine
and these conjectures, he has no conception that it is a spirit, and in a human form. And still
further, scarcely any one at this day knows what the spiritual is, and still less that spiritual
beings, as all spirits and angels are, have any human form. [3] Consequently, nearly all that
go from this world are greatly surprised to find that they are alive, and are as much men as
before, that they see, hear, and speak, and that their body enjoys the sense of touch as before,
with no difference whatever (see above, n. 74). And when they cease to be astonished at themselves
they are astonished that the church should know nothing about this state of men after death,
thus nothing about heaven or hell, when in fact all that have ever lived in the world are in
the other life and live as men.

And that those that are in falsities would not believe [even if visions were given] is meant
by these words:

Abraham said to the rich man in hell, They have Moses and the Prophets, let them hear them.
But he said, Nay, father Abraham, but if one came to them from the dead they would be converted.
But Abraham said to him, If they hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither will they believe
though one should rise from the dead (Luke 16:29-31).

  {Footnote 1} Profanation is the mixing of good and evil and of
  truth and falsity in man (n. 6348). Only those can profane
  truth and good, or the holy things of the Word and the church,
  who first acknowledge them, and still more who live according
  to them, and who afterwards recede from the belief and reject
  it, and live for themselves and the world (n. 593, 1008, 1010,
  1059, 3398, 3399, 3898, 4289, 4601, 10284, 10287). If man after
  repentance of heart relapses to former evils he profanes, and
  his latter state is then worse than his former (n. 8394). Those
  that have not acknowledged holy things, still less those that
  have no knowledge of them, cannot profane them (n. 1008, 1010,
  1059, 9188, 10284). The heathen who are out of the church and
  do not have the Word cannot profane it (n. 1327, 1328, 2051,
  2284). On this account interior truths were not disclosed to
  the Jews, for if they had been disclosed and acknowledged that
  people would have profaned them (n. 3398, 4289, 6963). The lot
  of profaners in the other life is the worst of all, because not
  only the good and truth they have acknowledged, but also their
  evil and falsity remain, and as these cling together, the life
  is rent asunder (n. 571, 582, 6348). Consequently most careful
  provision is made by the Lord to prevent profanation (n. 2426,
  10287).

457. When the spirit of man first enters the world of spirits, which takes place shortly after
his resuscitation, as described above, his face and his tone of voice resemble those he had
in the world, because he is then in the state of his exteriors, and his interiors are not as
yet uncovered. This is man's first state after death. But subsequently his face is changed,
and becomes entirely different, resembling his ruling affection or ruling love, in conformity
with which the interiors of his mind had been while he was in the world and his spirit while
it was in the body. For the face of a man's spirit differs greatly from the face of his body.
The face of his body is from his parents, but the face of his spirit is from his affection,
and is an image of it. When the life of the spirit in the body is ended, and its exteriors
are laid aside and its interiors disclosed, it comes into this affection. This is man's second
state. I have seen some that have recently arrived from the world, and have recognized them
from their face and speech; but seeing them afterwards I did not recognize them. Those that
had been in good affections appeared with beautiful faces; but those that had been in evil
affections with misshapen faces; for man's spirit, viewed in itself, is nothing but his affection;
and the face is its outward form. Another reason why faces are changed is that in the other
life no one is permitted to counterfeit affections that are not his own, and thus assume looks
that are contrary to his love. All in the other life are brought into such a state as to speak
as they think, and to manifest in their looks and gestures the inclinations of their will.
And because of this the faces of all become forms and images of their affections; and in consequence
all that have known each other in the world know each other in the world of spirits, but not
in heaven nor in hell (as has been said above, n. 427).{1}

  {Footnote 1} The face is so formed as to correspond with the
  interiors (n. 4791-4805, 5695).
  With the angels of heaven the face makes one with the interiors
  that belong to the mind (n. 4796-4799, 5695, 8250). Therefore
  in the Word the face signifies the interiors that belong to the
  mind, that is, to the affection and thought (n. 1999, 2434,
  3527, 4066, 4796, 5102, 9306, 9546). In what manner the influx
  from the brain into the face has been changed in process of
  time and with it the face itself as regards its correspondence
  with the interiors (n. 4326, 8250).

458. The faces of hypocrites are changed more slowly than those of others, because by practice
they had formed a habit of so managing their interiors as to imitate good affections; consequently
for a long time they appear not unbeautiful. But as that which they had assumed is gradually
put off, and the interiors of the mind are brought into accord with the form of their affections,
they become after awhile more misshapen than others. Hypocrites are such as have been accustomed
to talk like angels, but interiorly have acknowledged nature alone and not the Divine, and
have therefore denied what pertains to heaven and the church.

459. It should be known that everyone's human form after death is the more beautiful in proportion
as he has more interiorly loved Divine truths and lived according to them; for everyone's interiors
are opened and formed in accordance with his love and life; therefore the more interior the
affection is the more like heaven it is, and in consequence the more beautiful the face is.
This is why the angels in the inmost heaven are the most beautiful, for they are forms of celestial
love. But those that have loved Divine truths more exteriorly, and thus have lived in accordance
with them in a more external way, are less beautiful; for exterior affections only shine forth
from their faces; and through these no interior heavenly love shines, consequently nothing
of the form of heaven as it is in itself. There is seen in the faces of such something comparatively
obscure, not vivified by any thing of interior life shining through it. Singular prudence and fortitude rarely heard Dona Mencia show to be preserved in a remain
as divided as neutral spirits, while remaining faithful to litigation and without missing tribute
to his home and family was due them. heaven of such radiance that
no painter with all his art could possibly give any such light to his colors as to equal a
thousandth part of the brightness and life that shone forth from their countenances. But the
faces of the angels of the lowest heaven may in some measure be equalled.

460. In conclusion I will mention a certain arcanum hitherto unknown to any one, namely, that
every good and truth that goes forth from the Lord and makes heaven is in the human form; and
this not only as a whole and in what is greatest, but also in every part and what is least;
also that this form affects everyone who receives good and truth from the Lord, and causes
everyone who is in heaven to be in the human form in accordance with his reception of good
and truth. It is in consequence of this that heaven is like itself in general and in particular,
and that the human form is the form of the whole, of every society, and of every angel (as
has been shown in the four chapters from n. 59 to 86); to which let it be added that it is
the form of the least things of thought derived from heavenly love with the angels. No man,
however, can easily comprehend this arcanum; but it is clearly comprehended by the angels,
because they are in the light of heaven.

461. XLVIII. AFTER DEATH MAN IS POSSESSED OF EVERY SENSE, AND OF ALL THE MEMORY, THOUGHT, AND
AFFECTION, THAT HE HAD IN THE WORLD, LEAVING NOTHING BEHIND EXCEPT HIS EARTHLY BODY.

